Buy Cardio Plus Capsule 10 Online
We deliver across India Medlife.com Upload Prescription Blog Health Articles Free Home Delivery *
Search
Cart 0
Search
Home
Diabetic Care
Diabetes Monitors
Test strips
Lancets
Diabetic Footwear
Sugar Substitute
Diabetic Teas
Herbal Supplements
Shop By Concern
Cardiac Care
Eye & Ear Care
Liver Care
Bone, Joint & Muscle Care
Stomach Care
Women's Care
Men's Care
Elderly Care
Cancer Care
Smoking Cessation
Pain Relief
Kidney Care
Respiratory Care
Memory Boosters
Diet & Nutrition
Sports Nutrition
Family Nutritions
Body Building
Weight Loss
Vitamin & Supplements
Protein Supplements
Meal Replacement
Immunity Boosters
Nutrition Bars
Health Drinks
Super Food
Omegas
Weighing Scales
Personal Care
Women's Hygiene
Personal Hygiene
Oral Health Care
Anti- Pollution Masks
Skin Care
Hair Care
Mosquito Repellent
Anti-Age
Baby & Mom Care
Naturalis Essential Oil
Pet Supplies
Medical Devices
Health Monitors
Diabetes Monitors
Blood Pressure Monitors
Thermometers
Hemoglobin Test Monitors
Nebulizer
Disposable Medical
Doctor's Corner
Suction machine
Sexual Wellness
Men's Sexual Health
Women's Sexual Health
Fertility
Condoms
Shilajeet Products
Lubricants & Massage Gels
Medlife Essentials
Cardio supplements
Diabetic supplement
Orthopedic Supplement
Liver Care
Men's Sexual Health
Immunity Boosters
Mind Wellness
Respiratory Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Stomach Care
Homeopathy
SBL - Homeopathy
Allen - Homeopathy
Bakson's - Homeopathy
Dr. Reckeweg - Homeopathy
ADEL - Homeopathy
Wheezal - Homeopathy
Well-being
Pain Relief
Body-building
Ayurveda Medicine
Women Care
First Aid Kits
Ayurveda Products
Top Selling Products
'); // menu.show(); // } else { navigation.html(' '); menu.hide(); // }
Search
Home › Cardio Plus Capsule 10
Cardio Plus Capsule 10
Medlife
Rs. 80.00 Rs. 80.00
1 - Rs. 80.00
Uses :
Vitamin A Vitamin A treats and prevents vitamin A deficiency diseases. It also helps to prevent vitamin A deficiency in the patients with diabetes, hyperthyroidism, liver disorders, cystic fibrosis and abeta lipoproteinemia (genetic disorder). It helps to reduce the risk of cataracts, xerophthalmia and retinitis pigmentosa- A disease caused by damage to the retina. It reduces the risk of breast cancer in the premenopausal women. Riboflavin Riboflavin is also known as vitamin B2. It is used for the treatment and prevention of riboflavin deficiency. It is used to reduce the risk of cataracts. It reduces the levels of homocysteine and prevents hyperhomocycteinemia. It is reduce the number of migraine attacks. It helps to reduce muscle cramps. It is prescribed to treat congenital methemoglobinemia and red blood cells aplasia. Nicotinamide Nicotinamide is a form of vitamin B3 which is used in the treatment of deficiency of the vitamin B3, called as pellagra. Zinc Zinc is usually prescribed for the treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency. It is used for the treatment of diarrhea. It reduces the symptoms of Wilson’s disease. It is used for the treatment of acne. Gingivitis, peptic ulcers, and muscle cramps. It is used to treat foot ulcers in the diabetic patient. It enhances wound healing in the patients with burns. It is used to reduce the risk of anemia. It is used to reduce the symptoms of anorexia. Zinc supplements are used for the treatment of common cold, atopic eczema, psoriasis and macular degeneration. Manganese Manganese is prescribed for the patients with low serum manganese levels. Magnesium along with chondroitin sulphate and glucosamine hydrochloride is used for the treatment of osteoarthritis. It is prescribed for the treatment of osteoporosis and premenstrual syndrome. Vitamin C Vitamin C also known as ascorbic acid is used for the treatment and prevention of vitamin C deficiency. It is used for the treatment of scurvy – vitamin C deficiency disease. It boosts the immune responses and helps the body to fight against infections. So it is used to reduce the symptoms of common cold and other infections. Small dose of vitamin C is used for the prophylaxis and treatment of Herpes simplex virus infection, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia, diabetes and some type of cancer. Calcium panthothenate Calcium panthothenate is used for the treatment and prevention of pantothenic acid deficiency. It is used for the prevention of skin reactions in the patients undergoing radiation therapy. Vitamin E Vitamin E is an antioxidant. Evion tablet uses include treatment of vitamin E deficiency. It aids in wound healing, treats ataxia, relieves fatigue and is an energy booster. Copper Copper is used for the treatment and prevention of copper deficiency. It is [prescribed in combination with zinc, manganese and calcium. It is used for the treatment of anemia and osteoporosis. It improves wound healing and helps to maintain iron stores in the body. It prevents premature graying of hair. Selenium Selenium is mainly prescribed for the treatment and prevention of selenium deficiency disorders. It also helps to reduce the risk of autoimmune thyroid disorders such as Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. It is used to reduce the cholesterol levels. Selenium is also useful for the prevention of grey hair, mood disorders, infertility, cataracts, macular degeneration and miscarriage. Chromium picolinate Chromium picolinate is a mineral found in certain foods. It works together with insulin to metabolize carbohydrates. Chromium picolinate is used as an aid in controlling blood sugars levels, to lower cholesterol, and as a weight loss supplement. Folic acid Folic acid is prescribed for the treatment of megaloblastic anemia, and macrolytic anemia. It is prescribed during pregnancy to promote the development of the fetal brain and spinal cord. It prevents birth defects such as spina bifida in the fetus. It plays a role in prevention of colon cancer, cervical cancer, heart diseases, and stroke. It is prescribed to prevent memory loss in the patients with Alzheimer’s disease. It is also used to prevent the side effects of medications such as lometrexol and methotrexate. It is used to treat gum infections. Pyridoxine Pyridoxine is used for the prevention and treatment of vitamin B6 deficiency disorders. It is used to treat sideroblastic anemia. It is used to reduce homocysteine levels in the body and reduces the risk of heart diseases. It is used to treat premenstrual syndrome and morning sickness in women. It also used to prevent seizures, convulsions in the epileptic patients. Methylcobalamin Mecobalamin is used to treat vitamin B12 deficiency. It is also used in the treatment of pernicious anemia. Mecobalamin deficiency is seen in patients with fish tapeworm infestation, a malignancy of pancreas or bowel and folic acid deficiency.
Mode of drug action
Vitamin A Vitamin A is a fat- soluble vitamin. It plays an important role in the reproduction, growth and development of the brain. It also helps to maintain proper functioning of the immune system. Vitamin A is converted to its active form II-Cis retinal in the retinal of the eye. It plays a role in the production of the pigments that are required for the normal vision in the dim light. Zinc Zinc is an essential trace element. It plays a vital role in the protein synthesis and in the cell division. It is essential for the proper growth and functioning of the body. It plays an important role in the immune functioning, wound healing, blood clotting, thyroid functioning and, absorption and utilization of vitamin A. Zinc improves the absorption of vitamin A and improves vision. Manganese Manganese plays an important role in the development and metabolism of various antioxidant activity. It reduces the free radicals. It acts as a cofactor in various enzymatic reactions. It plays a role in the metabolism of cholesterol, carbohydrates and protein. It is also involved in the formation of bone. Vitamin C Vitamin C is a water soluble vitamin which plays an important in the growth and repair of cells and tissues of all the body parts. It enhances wound healing and formation of scar tissue. It repairs and maintains the cartilage, bones and teeth. It enhances the absorption of iron from the food material. Vitamin C has antioxidant property; it prevents the damage of skin tissue caused by free radicals. It delays the process of aging by preventing the formation of free radicals that cause skin damage. Vitamin C is prescribed for the patients with arthritis as it promotes repair and formation of cartilage. Vitamin C enhances immune functions of the body and helps the body to fight against disease causing agents. It is effective to reduce the symptoms of common cold and flu. Vitamin E Vitamin E inhibits the production of free radicals that cause cardiovascular disease and cancer. It slows the process of damaging cells. It is essential for functioning of many organs in the body. Copper Copper is an essential trace mineral which plays an important role in the formation of red blood cells. It enhances the absorption of iron and stores the iron in the body. It has anti-inflammatory action and reduces the symptoms of arthritis. It is essential for proper growth and functioning of the body. It plays a role in the production of melanin and prevents the graying of hair. It protects the myelin sheath that surrounds the nerves and prevents nerve damage. It acts as a cofactor in various enzymes. It plays a role in the synthesis of ATP- the energy molecules. It enhances the seep of wound healing and helps in tissue repair. Selenium Selenium plays a role in the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and proteins. It has antioxidant activity and prevents the cell damage. It reduces the risk of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Chromium Chromium is an essential trace nutrient that induces insulin action, thus influencing carbohydrate, lipid and protein metabolism. Folic acid Folic acid is required for proper development of the body. It plays a major role in the formation of genetic material - DNA. Folic acid present in the dietary substances is in its inactive form. It is converted to tetrahydrofolic acid and methyltetrahydrofolate in the presence of the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase. Folic acid takes part in erythropoiesis or production of the red blood cells. It also plays a role in the synthesis of nucleic acids. Folic acid helps to maintain the normal levels of homocysteine. Pyridoxine Pyridoxine is also known as vitamin B6. It consists of pyridoxine, pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, and their phosphorylated derivatives. These compounds are closely related and are collectively called as vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 acts as a coenzyme in various biochemical reactions such as metabolism of amino acids, glycogen, and synthesis of nucleic acids, hemoglobin, sphingomyelin and sphingolipids. It also takes part in the synthesis of neurotransmitters such as serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine and gamma-aminobutyric acid. Methylcobalamin Mecobalamin plays an important role in the cell growth, cell reproduction, hematopoiesis, and myelin synthesis (in the nerves). It works in conjugation with folic acid and enhances the synthesis of DNA. Mecobalamin maintains the functions of bone marrow and enhances the production of red blood cells. It is also required for the metabolism of carbohydrate, fat, and protein. Deficiency of mecobalamin can decrease the metabolism of folic acid and can lead to folic acid deficiency.
What are the common side effects?
Vitamin A Bleeding from gums or sore mouth, confusion, diarrhea, dizziness or drowsiness, double vision, headache, and irritability are some of the common side effects of vitamin A. Some of the sever and rare side effects of vitamin A are peeling of skin especially on the lips and palms, yellowish-orange patches on the feet and palms. Bone or joint pain, dry mouth, head ache, and photosensitivity. Zinc The most common side effects reported are nausea, bad taste, diarrhea, vomiting, mouth irritation, and, rarely, mouth sores. Manganese No major side effects have been reported. However, high levels of manganese can cause neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson’s disease due to degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Vitamin C The common side effects reported by the patients taking vitamin C are diarrhea, dizziness, flushing or redness of skin, headache, increase in urination, nausea or vomiting and stomach cramps. Vitamin E The common side effects of vitamin E due to high doses are fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, blurred vision, rash, bruising, and bleeding. Copper No major side effects are reported on copper. Selenium The most common side effects of selenium are bad breath, fever, nausea, and vomiting. Chromium The decrease in the chromium levels causes side effects such as renal failure, headaches, nausea, mood changes, impaired thinking, and impaired co-ordination. Folic acid The common side effects are fever, reddened skin, shortness of breath, skin rash or itching, tightness in chest, troubled breathing, wheezing, and general weakness or discomfort. Pyridoxine Pyridoxine is non-toxic and does not cause serious side effects. Some common side effects reported by the users are: nausea, stomach pain, loss of appetite, headache, drowsiness, numbness and tingling sensation in the limbs, numbness around the mouth, lethargy, tiredness, impaired balance, loss or reduces sensation to touch , temperature and vision. Methylcobalamin The common side effects of mecobalamin are stomach pain, bleeding from the gums or nose, bluish discoloration of the lips and fingernails, chest pain, cough, decreased urine output, difficulty in breathing, eye pain, fatigue, and increased heartbeat.
Warning
Pregnancy: Safe under medical guidance Breast feeding: Safe under medical guidance Alcohol: Unsafe Kidney dysfunction: Caution required Liver dysfunction: Caution required
Special precautions for safe use
• Do not use Cardio Plus medicine, if allergic to Cardio Plus medicine or any of the ingredients in it.
• Cardio Plus medicine is recommended only under medical prescription.
• Do not consume alcohol when using Cardio Plus medicine.
• Take medical consultation before using Cardio Plus medicine during pregnancy and breast feeding.
• Stop using Cardio Plus medicine and immediately consult the doctor if any unusual symptoms develop.
• Make sure to keep Cardio Plus medicine away from children.
What else should I know?
1. Is vitamin A safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Vitamin A is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
2. Does vitamin A reduces the risk of breast cancer? Yes. Vitamin A has antioxidant activity and reduces the risk of breast cancer.
3. Can I take vitamin A to reduce acne and pimples Yes. Vitamin A has antioxidant activity and helps to maintain tissue integrity and healthy skin. It effectively reduces acne and pimple. Consult your physician for safe use.
4. How should I store vitamin A supplements? Vitamin A supplements should be stores at room temperature away from direct sunlight and moisture.
5. Can I take Vitamin E supplements along with Vitamin A supplements? Yes. Vitamin E enhances the storage and utilization of vitamin A. Consult your physician before taking both the medications together. Zinc
1. How should I store zinc supplements? Zinc supplements should be stores at room temperature (25oC) away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is zinc safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Zinc is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with zinc supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. What dietary restrictions should I follow while taking zinc supplements? Zinc does not interact with most of the food substances. Avoid consuming alcohol while taking zinc supplements. Consult your physician for safe use.
5. Is zinc useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, zinc is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Manganese
1. How should I store manganese supplements? Manganese supplements should be stores at room temperature (25oC) away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is manganese safe for pregnant and lactating women? Yes. Manganese is safe for pregnant and lactating women. However, consult your doctor before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications with manganese supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. Does manganese effect the functioning of brain? High levels of manganese may impair the functioning of brain due to degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Consult your physician to know the right dosage.
5. Is manganese useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, manganese is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Vitamin C
1. Can I take the medication to reduce wrinkles and fine lines on the skin? Yes. Vitamin A enhances cell repair and reduces wrinkles and fine lines.
2. Is this medication safe to take during pregnancy? Yes. It is safe to take during pregnancy. Consult your physician before taking vitamin C supplements.
3. Can I take any other medications along with vitamin C supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. Is vitamin C safe for renal patients? No. Patients with kidney problems should not vitamin C as it increases the risk of kidney stones.
5. Does vitamin C helps to reduce the symptoms of common cold? Yes, vitamin C boots up immune system and provides relief from common cold. Calcium pantothenate
1. What dietary restrictions I should follow while taking calcium pantothenate supplements? You should avoid drinking alcohol while taking calcium pantothenate supplements.
2. Can calcium pantothenate e supplements safe for children? Yes, calcium pantothenate supplements are safe for children.
3. Is it safe to take calcium pantothenate supplements during pregnancy? Yes, calcium pantothenate supplements are safe during pregnancy. Consult your physician for safe use
4. How should I take calcium pantothenate supplements? You should take calcium pantothenate supplements every day after meals. Follow the instructions given by your physician or the manufacturer for safe use.
5. Can I take any other medications along with calcium pantothenate supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications. Vitamin E
1. Does vitamin E helps to prevent painful mensuration? Yes. Vitamin E reduces the production of free radicals and prevents painful mensuration. Consult your physician for safe use.
2. Does vitamin E helps to improve memory in patients with Alzheimer’s diseases? Yes. Vitamin E has antioxidant activity. It prevents the damage to the nerve and brain cells thereby improve memory in the patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Consult your physician for safe use.
3. Does vitamin E is useful to prevent wrinkles and fine lines on the skin? Yes. Vitamin E has antioxidant activity and reduces skin aging. You can use vitamin E to prevent wrinkles and fine lines on the skin. However, consult your physician to know the right dose and instructions for safe use.
4. How should I store vitamin E supplements? Vitamin E supplements should be stores at room temperature (25oC) away from direct sunlight and moisture.
5. Is vitamin E safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Vitamin E is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication. Copper
1. How should I store copper supplements? Copper supplements should be stores at room temperature (25oC) away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is copper safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Copper is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with copper supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. Does copper is useful to prevent premature grey hair? Yes. Copper increases the melanin production and prevents premature grey hair.
5. Is copper useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, copper is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Selenium
1. How should I store selenium supplements? Selenium supplements should be stores at room temperature (25oC) away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is selenium safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Selenium is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with selenium supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. What are the dietary sources of selenium? High levels of selenium can be found in fish, shell fish, red meat, grains, eggs, chicken, and liver.
5. Is selenium useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, selenium is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Chromium picolinate
1. Is chromium picolinate safe during pregnancy? Yes, chromium picolinate is safe during pregnancy.
2. Does chromium picolinate cause leather contact allergy? Yes, chromium picolinate causes leather contact allergy.
3. Does chromium picolinate causes depression? Yes, chromium picolinate might affect brain chemistry and may cause depression.
4. Is chromium picolinate safe in children? Yes, chromium picolinate is safe in children.
5. What are the drugs that may interact with chromium picolinate? Chromium picolinate may interact with the drugs such as NSAIDs, insulin, and levothyroxine. Folic acid
1. What is the difference between folate and folic acid? Folate and folic acid both have same effects. Folate is the natural form found in foods.
2. Does folic acid treats symptoms of anemia? Yes. Folic acid is used to treat symptoms of anemia.
3. How much folic acid should I take? The dietary allowance of folic acid varies with individuals. The dosage differs from children to elderly. Pregnant and breastfeeding women need to take a large amount of folic acid.
4. How does folic acid help to prevent cancer? Folic acid prevents the change in the DNA molecule that may lead to cancer.
5. What if I overdose? Overdose symptoms may include numbness or tingling, tongue irritation, confusion, trouble in concentrating. Pyridoxine
1. Does pyridoxine helps to treat carpal tunnel syndrome? Yes, pyridoxine helps to treat carpal tunnel syndrome. Consult your physician for safe use.
2. What is the daily requirement of pyridoxine to prevent deficiency disease? A daily intake of
2.2 mg will help to prevent deficiency diseases. Pregnant women need
2.6 mg and lactating women need
2.5 mg of pyridoxine daily.
3. What are the dietary sources of pyridoxine? Fish, liver and citrus fruits are some of the dietary sources of pyridoxine.
4. Can I take any other medications along with pyridoxine supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications
5. How should I take pyridoxine supplements? You should take pyridoxine supplements every day after meals. Follow the instructions given by your physician or the manufacturer for safe use. Methylcobalamin
1. What dietary restrictions should I follow while taking mecobalamin supplements? You should avoid drinking alcohol while taking mecobalamin supplements.
2. Is it safe to give mecobalamin supplements for children? Yes, mecobalamin supplements are safe for children. They are prescribed for the treatment of pernicious anemia and mecobalamin deficiency in the infants and children.
3. Can I take mecobalamin supplements during pregnancy? Yes, you can take mecobalamin supplements during pregnancy as it promotes the growth of red blood cells in the mother and fetus.
4. Should I undergo any test while taking mecobalamin supplements? Mecobalamin supplements may decrease potassium levels in patients with severe mecobalamin deficiency.
Share 0 Tweet Pin it 0 Fancy +1
You may also like
Xyzal 5 Mg Tablet 15
Rs. 103.50 Rs. 103.50
Trika
Rs. 140.00 Rs. 140.00 Rs. 100.00 Rs. 100.00
SHIGRU CAP
Rs. 110.00 Rs. 110.00
Voveran Tpm Gel 30 Gm
Rs. 105.45 Rs. 105.45
Voveran Sr 75 MG Tablet 10
Rs. 67.00 Rs. 67.00
Quick Links
Diabetic Care
Shop By Concern
Diet & Nutrition
Personal Care
Medical Devices
Sexual Wellness
Medlife Essentials
Homeopathy
Well-being
First Aid Kits
Ayurveda Products
Top Selling Products
FSSAI License
Get In Touch
Contact us at:
contact@medlife.com
Twitter
Facebook
Explore Medlife:
- Online Medical Store
- Blog
- Health Articles
- Find Doctors - Clinics
Payment methods
Registered Office
Medlife International Private Limited
Room No. 101A, Zubaida Complex,
Exhibition Road, Patna – 800 001.
Bihar, India.
Web: www.medlife.com
Contact : 1860 1234 1234
CIN- U24230BR2014PTC023149.
Corproate Office & Biiling Address
Medlife International Private Limited
Tower –D, 5th Floor, IBC Knowledge Park,
4/1, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore – 560029.
Web: www.medlife.com
Contact: 1860 1234 1234
© 2019 Medlife Shop
Enter the mobile to get OTP
Get OTP
←
An SMS with a one time password(OTP) has been sent to
Didn’t receive SMS ?
RESEND
Confirm