Imitrex rebound | Migraine.com
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Forums
50 Years & Older Living With Migraine
Imitrex rebound
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
By JaneInPain March 20, 2018 at 1:13 pm
My pain specialist does not necessarily believe in Imitrex rebound migraines. But I read all the rebound symptoms and they’re talking about me. I’ve been on daily Imitrex for at least 15 years. Anyone else had Imitrex rebounding and what did you use to break the cycle/taper off the Imitrex? Prednisone 6-day packs no longer work for me. Thank you.
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk March 21, 2018 at 12:30 pm Moderator
Hi JaneInPain,
Thank you for your question. I’m sorry you are having a rough time. It is possible to have rebound from pain relievers and/or triptans. Seeing as you’ve been taking them for so long, it’s certainly possible. Stopping rebound means discontinuing the offending medication, in this case Imitrex. Let me share these articles are rebound with you that may help; https://migraine.com/living-migraine/stop-rebound-headaches/.
I’d also like to mention pain management may not be the best solution for migraine disease. I would encourage you to seek out the expertise of a true migraine/headache disorder expert. These doctors are board certified in headache medicine, which is different than being certified in neurology. I’m currently seeing my 5th true expert and finally may be getting somewhere! When you get a moment take a look at these articles about how these doctors are different and how to find one; http://migraine.com/blog/how-are-migraine-specialists-different/ and https://migraine.com/blog/really-find-headache-specialist/.
I hope this helps!
Nancy
reply
By BrownT May 18, 2018 at 11:57 pm
Hi Janeinpain
I find that imitrex gives me rebound headaches also. I find it is still the most effective medication to deal with my worst migraines and during an episode I prefer to find relief first and deal with tomorrow later. My approach has been to use elitriptan for the rebound as it does not rebound as much. Sorry to hear prednisone no longer works because it helps too. I also find that I need to switch medication to help regain their effectiveness.
There have been many migraine/pain specialist that each seem to have an approach that works for them. I just keep trying different specialists while under the care of my family doctor and over the years have collected many approaches to help me cope with the daily pain.
I was in the hospital after what the doctors thought was a stroke (which I think was a particularly bad migraine) when after five days of intravenous medication when I actual awoke without a headache. The world was brighter with more colour and I actually felt wonderful for about two hours. I have mixed feelings about those two hours. It gave me perspective and the realization of what life felt like without pain. Certainly a mixed blessing. Most days it would be better not knowing what I have lost. Some days it is hoping to experience that feeling again.
I find the hardest part of constant pain is keeping the hope going that some day a new medication may come out that eradicates migraines to give me back the wonderful world again. When imitrex first came out it was the first drug that could actually deal with migraines. Before imitrex it was a matter of just dulling the senses and sleep was all there was.
Keep up the fight. Find new approaches. And hope for the future.
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk May 20, 2018 at 2:28 pm Moderator
Hi BrownT,
Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us!
I hope to hear more from you.
Nancy
reply
By NRODMAN May 29, 2018 at 5:48 pm
Hi.
I have had chronic migraines for on/off 50years..and then there was Imitrex! It practically gave me back my life. However if my triggers were out of control, I also was getting the migraines back too soon.. at first I ignored my doctors warning of kickback headaches..however..it was true for me.
I now have to stick strictly to the rules of every-other day. Especially for the injection..(which I haven’t seen since Dec.2017)..I can take 2 ..50mg tabs if the first isn’t working in an hour. Then it’s fine. But I cannot touch them for 2days after.
The rebound is a bad migraine too. And it will worsen if you don’t stop the drug for a few days.
Lately I found a magic remedy that is about to be FDA approved I hope.. which is a topical ointment that goes in your mouth.. next to where your optic nerve branches on your cheek on its way to your eye..
the ointment is simply ANTI-INFLAMMATORY…that I put on a swab for 2 mins a day at the top of my gum between my 1-2 molars..just where that nerve comes so close..that by osmosis you relieve the inflammation in the nerve.
I was getting 18-20 migraines a month with 6 powerful prophylactic meds 5 years ago.. in one week, I was down to 2-4 migraines and it has never gone up!
But do you think the Pharma will allow some cheap effective cure be approved? When new drugs are coming out for $5,000 a year? My ointment cost me $60 last year.
reply
By lmlahlum October 18, 2018 at 12:29 am
What is this ointment? Please share! Thank you.
reply
By JPaula August 14, 2018 at 9:42 am
I just posted the fact that I started taking an imitrex like medicine 3 weeks ago (Naratriptan). My head has been worse.
I have been reading the insert and find that it can increase headaches, cause stiff neck, leg cramps (I’ve had a few) and is often given with an antidepressant (can affect your mood). There were more side effects but these were the ones I am experiencing.
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk August 16, 2018 at 12:00 pm Moderator
Hi JPaula,
I’m sorry to hear you head feel worse. You’re not taking it every day, are you? Triptans such as naratriptan are designed to be taken at the first sign of a migraine attack, no more than two to three days a week.
I’m unable to take the pill form of triptans due to unwanted side effects, but can use the nasal sprays. I wonder if that’s something to discuss with the doctor.
If you’ve having four or more severe migraine attacks a month, it’s time to discuss migraine prevention with the doctor. There are over 100 medications that can be used to treat migraine!! Let me share that information with you; https://migraine.com/blog/migraine-preventives-start/.
I hope this helps!
Nancy
reply
By JPaula August 16, 2018 at 12:09 pm
Nancy, thank you for your thoughtful response. I have only taken the Naratriptan 4 times in the past month and all 4 times it was out of desperation.
I will check back with my neurologist. She prescribed it last month. Right now I’m visiting my daughter and grandchildren on the west coast and I am in bed with a terrible migraine that intensified on the plane. Sorry to whine.
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk August 16, 2018 at 12:10 pm Moderator
Hi JPaula,
I’m so sorry to hear you aren’t feeling well. I’ll keep my fingers crossed this migraine attack ends soon and you can get back to enjoying your family!!
Nancy
reply
By Latodavia January 29, 2019 at 4:51 pm
Hi, I discovered the only thing that has ever worked for me, which is a triptan called Relpax — but I also think I rebound from it. I try to keep myself to half a pill every 2 or 3 days. If I take it 5 days in a row I know I have to suffer through an entire day (at least) to break the cycle. I usually can, though. Good luck!
reply
By Nancy Harris Bonk January 30, 2019 at 3:16 pm Moderator
Hi Latodavia,
Thank you for sharing what’s working for you. I would like to mention that Relpax, a triptan, is not meant to be taken more than two to three days a week. I know there are some extreme cases where people use these medications almost daily, but it’s not optimal.
The thing is if we have more than four severe migraine attacks a month, it’s time to discuss migraine prevention with our doctor.
Keep us posted on how you are feeling,
Nancy
reply
Join the conversation! Log in or create an account.
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.