The Only Cure is More Fever – The Chelsea Scrolls
The Chelsea Scrolls
Science explained with humor, analogy, and pop culture. (Because sometimes you just wanna understand a thing…)
Menu Skip to content
Home
About Me
Portfolio
Patreon
FB
Tw
Insta
May 10, 2016 May 25, 2016 Chelsea Schuyler
The Only Cure is More Fever
Really not sure what this is supposed to be indicative of, but it seemed appropriate
by chelsea schuyler
How Does the Body Do Hot?
Have you ever wondered how your body makes you hotter when you have a fever?
Adorable tribal people attempt to ‘make’ fire
As a privileged first worlder, I know how to make something hot, and that’s by turning on my fire device (oven, lighter, camp stove) or cranking the thermostat. I’m pretty confident those are the only ways, though I have heard a cute tribal story about sticks.
Yet without any of those conveniences, how does the body heat up on it’s own?
This image has changed your life.
Turns out, the body goes for the thermostat option. It’s called the hypothalamus, which is a little nubbin at the base of your brain. I’ve included a picture but really, since when have brain-location-pictures ever helped anyone? They’re all just globular curves with a highlighted bit. Just imagine a box of neurons somewhere that complain all day long about the temperature outside.
The hypothalamus is the one that decides whether to engage in making you colder or hotter – called thermoregulation. This is to prevent hyperthermia or hypothermia, which, after a long enough time, is referred to as “incompatible with life.”
I love that phrase. It’s so nice – like saying, “Oh, sorry Hypothermia, we’re just not compatible. Don’t worry, you’ll find someone, there are plenty of fish in the sea.”
Moss piglet (right and left).
(By the way, that other fish is called the moss piglet, aka water bear or tardigrade, which is hypothermia’s soulmate because it can survive in temperatures pushing -459°F; -273°C otherwise known as absolute zero! …Not actually a fish. Stay with me here.)
How Does the Hypothalamus Work?
Before we get into the heat overload of fever, let’s talk about how it works normally. The thermostat in your house works because magic. In your body however, it gets all biology-test-complicated.
I see no reason anyone would forget this.
Remember the Kreb’s Cycle? Citric Acid Cycle? No one does. Basically, picture a series of Dr. Seuss machines all working in your body, crunching, breaking down, and reforming food behind colorful curtains. Out pops energy on the other side. All those old school machines – that room would get pretty hot. When you metabolize food, the series of processes releases heat as a byproduct.
So if you’re cold, your hypothalamus cracks the whip on your metabolism and tells it to pump up your jam (or ham. Sandwich). You can also:
Shiver – tiny muscles do little wiggy dances for you, which expends energy and therefore releases heat.
Sit in the sun – Enjoy one of the three forms of heat transfer called radiation. Effort free! Unless finding the sun is hard.
Strictly scientific example of conduction heating absent of cuteness or pro-lemur bias
Cuddle up with your partner – Another form called conduction (heat from touch)! Effort free but somewhat situational and culturally sensitive.
Okay, what if you’re too hot? You can slow down your metabolism, or you can:
Sweat – promote evaporation! The change from liquid to vapor ends up in heat loss, which has a cooling effect. (If you’re in a humid area you’re screwed. Sorry New Orleans!)
Sit in the shade! = less radiation. Effort free! Unless finding a tree is hard.
Convection from a human hand, or I set this guy’s hand on fire. Either justified for science.
Um, convect? Convection is the third form of heat flow. It’s when the motion of a fluid (air or water) carries the heat away from the source (b/c heat rises. Think a pot of boiling water). Typically for us, air comes near us, grabs the heat and runs! Stay still and it will absorb your heat, but then just stay. Hence goosebumps that make your hair stand out and trap air so that it can’t run away with your heat. It’s also why blankets and wet suits work to keep us warm. So if you’re hot, take off your wet suit and blanket. Perv.
Jungle (and Other Biomes) Fever
But fevers are more than comfort zoning, it’s a biological weapon of sorts against bacteria that make you sick. So how does your body translate the presence of bad bacteria into heat overdrive? Here’s how it goes down:
Cells go out with a bang not a whimper
Okay, so a bunch of bacteria sneaks in and kills off some of your cells. Vanity of vanities! But wait, twas not in vain – your dead cells have a secret weapon. Upon perishment they squirt out a bunch of death juice. This putrid concoction includes a bunch of floaties called pyrogens (‘pyro-‘ = fire, ‘-gen’ = generate. See where this is going?).
The pyrogens book it to the hypothalamus and excite cold-sensing neurons, tricking the thermostat into thinking “Jesus it’s friggin’ cold in here” and so cranks the heat. White blood cells of the immune system love heat, so they start breeding like rabbits and attacking bacteria left and right.
Dragons are incessantly riddled with pyrogens and immune to bacteria
Meanwhile, hopefully, the temperature-sensitive bacteria and viruses stall out or die in the newfound sauna.
Extra meanwhile, you’re brain is thoroughly entertained by the Netflix binge you feel fully justified in allowing your quarantined self.
Treatment – Feed or Starve?
the only prescription
So, should you eat when you have a fever? “Feed a fever, starve a cold” and all that? Or was it “starve a fever, feed a cold“? Luckily, they’re both wrong, you should feed both, feed everything – feasts all around!
Now, this does of course mean healthful food. Cheetos aren’t gonna be doing you no favors. And don’t eat if you really don’t feel like it. But do force water, cuz you’re likely sweating like a piglet. (Though the hypothalamus turns a blind eye, the sweat glands are firm believers in lowering the effects of climate change).
Chicken soup is good for fever (and colds) because it’s healthy (calories + liquid), unless your grandma’s slackin’ and bought a tin of chicken byproduct and hydrogenated corn syrup. Also, steam helps break up dry mucus (showers and tea would like a shout out as well).
Will You Die?
Adorable raw foodists ‘make’ pizza. Note: real pizza does not cause fever. Eat at will.
Yes, technically a fever could kill you. Enough heat and you start denaturing proteins, as raw foodists will happily tell you repeatedly in their ironic ‘cook’books.
In the body, this can result in possible brain cell damage, convulsions, and a little ditty called death. You can treat fever by using cold compresses, avoiding excess clothing (go nekkid!), or taking Tylenol or whatever, but remember that treating the underlying issue is more important.
Commune with your inner immunity army and get the Spanish inquisition on that infection!
Photos are in the public domain except:
tardigrade: BS8236 via photopin (license)
Citric Cycle: photo by Narayanese et al, CC BY-SA 3.0,
hand: photo by Gary Settles, CC BY-SA 3.0,
pizza: photo by Martin Pool CC BY 2.0
cowbell: Schoppernau Cow via photopin (license)
Walken: photo by John Harrison, CC BY-SA 3.0
Advertisements
Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
More
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Nature Factoids
body thermostat
citric acid cycle
feed a fever
fever
hypothalamus
pyrogens
starve a fever
thermoregulation
white blood cells
Post navigation
Previous MMM… Needles N’ Crunch
Next Plankton Confessional
3 comments
Saturday Night Fever says:
August 5, 2016 at 6:30 pm
You are the moss piglet of my dreams!
LikeLike
Reply
Colin says:
May 11, 2016 at 6:51 am
This is freaking awesome and so are you!
LikeLike
Reply
Chelsea Schuyler says:
May 11, 2016 at 10:23 am
Thanks mate!
LikeLike
Reply
I'm addicted to your comments. Be an enabler and leave one today! Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Subscribe!
Weird experiments, human nuttery, nature facts - get them in your email!
Join 328 other followers
Sign me up, Scotty
Advertisements
Categories
Dinosaurs (4)
Food (7)
Human Nuttery (22)
Nature Factoids (31)
Pets (5)
Space (8)
Weird Experiments (12)
Wildlife (16)
Help my dream of spreading science knowledge through humor and story. Donate from as low as a dollar a month - become my patron!
Looking for a specific topic?
Search for:
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: