Top 10 First Aid Facts and Fallacies - NurseBuff
Home
Lists
Nursing Apps
Nursing Blogs
Nursing Gift Ideas
Nursing Humor
Nursing Lifehacks
Nursing Lifestyle
Nursing Mnemonics
Nursing Pharmacology
Nursing Practice
Nursing Quotes
Nursing Scholarships
Nursing Schools
Nursing Skills
Vintage Nurses
How To’s
Nursing Career Guide
Nursing Jobs
Nurse Anesthetist
Flight Nursing
Forensic Nursing
Hospice Nursing
Neonatal (NICU) Nursing
Nursing Infographics
Nursing Shoes
Best Shoes for Nurses
Nursing Shoes for Men 2017
Nursing Shoes for Women 2017
Specialty Nursing Shoes 2017
Best White Shoes for Clinicals 2018
Best Comfortable Nursing Shoes
NCLEX Practice Q’s
Top Products
Search
NurseBuff
Home
Lists
Nursing Apps
Nursing Blogs
Nursing Gift Ideas
Nursing Humor
Nursing Lifehacks
Nursing Lifestyle
Nursing Mnemonics
Nursing Pharmacology
Nursing Practice
Nursing Quotes
Nursing Scholarships
Nursing Schools
Nursing Skills
Vintage Nurses
How To’s
Nursing Career Guide
Nursing Jobs
Nurse Anesthetist
Flight Nursing
Forensic Nursing
Hospice Nursing
Neonatal (NICU) Nursing
Nursing Infographics
Nursing Shoes
Best Shoes for Nurses
Nursing Shoes for Men 2017
Nursing Shoes for Women 2017
Specialty Nursing Shoes 2017
Best White Shoes for Clinicals 2018
Best Comfortable Nursing Shoes
NCLEX Practice Q’s
Top Products
Home First Aid Top 10 First Aid Facts and Fallacies
First Aid
Lists
Top 10 First Aid Facts and Fallacies
February 6, 2012
19137
Share on Facebook
Tweet on Twitter
First aid is the earliest and easiest management even a bystander can do to a victim. However, since not all people are well-informed and well-trained in terms of accurate first aid measures, most of us only rely to information that has been passed to us and has been proven effective or correct by virtue of tradition alone.
Also Read: Emergency First Aid for Nurses – A Practical Guide
More often than not, these information are already obsolete and are not backed with accurate scientific studies to make them an effective way to provide first aid treatment. Instead of giving early relief from an injury, we might even cause someone further insult due to the wrong information that we keep on believing.
For this reason, I’ve listed ten facts and fallacies about different first aid treatments I bet you’re quite familiar with:
1. Choking
Fallacy: Heimlich maneuver is ALWAYS necessary during incidents of choking.
Fact: If someone is choking, you must always remember to keep your composure and to not use Heimlich maneuver in just a snap. Assessment is very crucial before you can start any first aid treatment. In the case of a choking victim, check first if he/she can still talk or is already turning blue due to complete obstruction. The latter requires Heimlich maneuver so that air will push the blockage upward and be removed in the process. However, if the victim can still talk, that means the blockage is only partial and can be dislodged by normal coughing. Avoid giving fluids because it can take up the space remaining within the victim’s airway.
2. Nose bleed
Fallacy: Tilt your head back to stop bleeding.
Fact: Lean forward, pinch your nose.
Nose bleeding, according to medical experts, is not always a medical emergency. If the bleeding doesn’t stop after five to six minutes, then that’s the time that you should seek professional help. To provide first aid, ask the victim to lean forward and pinch the nose just below the bone. Tilting the head backward might cause someone additional danger especially if heavy bleeding is suspected.
3. Ankle sprain
Fallacy: Apply hot compress.
Fact: Apply cold compress.
Using hot compress will only increase the severity of inflammation not just of sprains but also of strains and fractures. Cold compress, on the other hand, will minimize both swelling and pain sensation so it’s advisable to use cold compress for 10 full minutes with another 10 minute-interval for 24-48 hours.
4. Snake bite
Fallacy: Cut the snake bite with a knife, apply tourniquet to the extremity, and suck the bloody wood to remove the snake venom.
Fact: Apply a splint or cover the area with clean cloth and go to the emergency room as soon as possible.
Contrary to popular belief, sucking out a victim’s blood will only put the rescuer’s life in danger because the area underneath the tongue is highly vascular and can easily absorb blood with the snake venom. Cutting the wounds to let the blood ooze out has the risk of damaging several nerves and tendons so it will be better to leave the wound as it is. The same goes with tourniquet because cutting off the blood supply to any area of the body, as we all know, will only leave that body part damaged and non-functional.
5. Burns
Fallacy: Put butter or petroleum jelly to the burned area.
Fact: Flush the burned area with cool water and apply antibiotic ointment to decrease the risk of infection.
Using butter, mayonnaise or petroleum jelly will only cause further injury because they contain substances that enclose more heat when applied to skin. You can either flush or submerge the burned area with cool water to minimize pain sensation and stop the heating process. If the victim has too many blisters or gained third degree burns, immediate medical attention is necessary.
6. Bleeding Extremity
Fallacy: Apply tourniquet above the area of injury.
Fact: Pad the bleeding area with numerous layers of gauze pads and seek medical attention especially if the injury is caused by animal bites.
This is actually the same with snake bites; one should never apply tourniquet to a bleeding or wounded area because it will cut off the blood supply to that body part or extremity. Amputation will be unavoidable once an extremity is considered useless due to blood supply impedance.
7. Car accident
Fallacy: Move an unconscious victim from the area of accident.
Fact: Don’t move the victim and avoid removing the victim’s helmet (for motorcycle riders) until paramedics arrive.
Road accidents usually involve spinal cord injuries so it’s always better to leave the victim in his original position especially if immediate threats to life like fire is non-existent. Any unnecessary movement might cause paralysis or even death to the victim because spinal cord controls virtually everything within a human body.
8. Seizure
Fallacy: Let the victim bite a spoon so he won’t bite his own tongue.
Fact: Never put anything inside a victim’s mouth.
If someone is having a seizure, it’s either the victim is naturally an epileptic or suffering convulsion for the first time. During this emergency, avoid touching the victim unless you consider it necessary to transfer him to a safer place. Putting a spoon in the victim’s mouth will only lead to two things: it’s either he will break the object or his teeth which can lead to an accidental choking.
9. Blister
Fallacy: Break the blister.
Fact: Leave the blister as it is.
Popping the blister will only expose the underlying skin to further damage and possible infection. The blister will normally heal on its own.
10. Fever
Fallacy: Use alcohol sponge to reduce fever.
Fact: Use tepid sponge bath to lower the body temperature. Take over the counter drugs and if fever persists, take the person imediately to the hospital.
Rubbing alcohol has a higher rate of vaporization that’s why they can cause chills to the patient, making the experience more uncomfortable. In addition to that, children absorb alcohol directly through their lungs and as we all know, they are too sensitive with this kind of chemical.
First aid is necessary to save lives but if done in the wrong way, it can cause further injury to the victim. As health care professionals, it is one of our primary responsibilities to disseminate health information that is effective and accurate at the same time. Everyone can save lives but to make this possible, every one must educate themselves with the myths and misconceptions regarding first aid treatment.
Photo credit: info.emilcott.com
TAGS
Blister
Choking
Cold compression therapy
Conditions and Diseases
first aid
Health
Injury
Snakebite
Top 10 First Aid Facts and Fallacies
SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
tweet
Jason
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
How To's
10 Essential Makeup Tips Every Female Nurse Should Know
Lists
14 Cute And Funny Notepads Every Nurse Must Have
Lists
250 Funniest Nursing Quotes and eCards (Part 2)
Lists
Top 5 Best NCLEX-RN Review Books – A Complete Buyer’s Guide
Lists
How to Insert an I.V. Device in an Older Adult
Lists
Top 10 Educational Board Games for Nurses
Follow Us
8,596FansLike
397FollowersFollow
NurseBuff on Pinterest.
Advertisement
Hot Topics
Six Things You Should Never Say To A Dying Person
September 2, 2018
TODAY’S QUOTE: No Beauty Shines Brither Than That Of A Good...
October 3, 2017
33 Funny and Relatable Nursing School Memes
September 1, 2017
7 Good Reasons Why Nurses Should Be Thanked This Nurses Week
April 30, 2018
12 Pharmacology Flashcards for Nurses
September 17, 2014
Load more
You May Also Like
Recommended
EDITOR PICKS
Nominate A Nurse for Nurses Week 2019!
April 23, 2019
The Origins of Nurses Week
April 22, 2019
6 Best Nursing Schools in Virginia
April 18, 2019
POPULAR POSTS
100 Funniest Nursing Memes on Pinterest – Our Special Collection
May 30, 2015
20 Short But Effective Prayers for Surgery
January 9, 2018
35 IV Therapy Tips & Tricks for Nurses
January 23, 2018
POPULAR CATEGORY
Lists174
Nursing Life107
Nursing Quotes107
Nursing Tips102
Nursing Humor89
Nursing Career83
Nursing Lifestyle83
How To's41
Nursing Gift Ideas30
ABOUT US
NurseBuff is a popular nursing humor and lifestyle blog.
Contact us: [email protected]
FOLLOW US
About
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contribute
© All Rights Reserved. NurseBuff.com
MORE STORIES
Summer Alert: 10 Heat Stroke Symptoms You Should Watch Out For
April 14, 2013
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS