Foot Health Archives - Help My Foot Pain
Skip to content
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Foot Health
Rigid Ankle Braces for Maximum Support
April 17, 2019 April 17, 2019 by Kyle
Rigid Ankle Braces for Maximum Support So you just sprained your ankle, Healing ankle ligaments can take up to six weeks. You need to stabilize your ankle while it heals. The best way to stabilize the ankle is with a rigid ankle brace. The rigid ankle brace will provide maximum support for the injury. Rigid … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags ankle brace, ankle pain, ankle sprain, rigid ankle braceLeave a comment
Alternative Crutches Help Ease the Pain
April 5, 2019 by Kyle
Alternative crutches help ease the pain Crutches have been around for a long time and without much of a change. While crutches are proven to effectively unload the weight off of your injured leg or foot speeding up recovery time, they can be extremely uncomfortable. There is underarm pain, not to mention how awkward it … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags ankle pain, ankle sprain, foot pain, iwalk, knee scooter, knee walker, plantar fasciitis, RICELeave a comment
Massaging Your Way Out of Foot Pain
March 25, 2019 by Kyle
Massaging Your Way Out of Foot Pain Do your feet hurt? Have you been standing or working on your feet all day long? I bet your feet could use a little TLC. You might think about massaging your way out of foot pain. Foot pain can come in many forms, plantar fasciitis, heel pain, achilles … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags achilles tendonitis, foot massag, foot massage, foot massager, foot pain, plantar fasciitisLeave a comment
Do insoles really help with foot pain?
March 19, 2019 March 13, 2019 by Kyle
Shoe Insoles for Foot Pain Relief Are you suffering from some type of foot pain? If you suffer from some type of foot pain like plantar fasciitis or achilles tendonitis, you might be looking into ways to help relieve that pain. One way might be to use a shoe insert/ insole, or orthotic. So the … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags achilles tendonitis, foot pain, insoles, orthotics, plantar fasciitisLeave a comment
10 Remedies for Foot Pain
January 22, 2019 September 14, 2018 by Kyle
Treating foot pain doesn’t have to be complicated. It can be easier than you think. Take a look at the following 10 Remedies for Foot Pain. Hopefully one of these methods will help with your foot, ankle or Achilles tendon pain. HOT AND COLD WATER BATHS – Contrast Hydrotherapy Contrast baths are a form of hot … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags achilles tendonitis, ankle pain, foot pain, plantar fasciitisLeave a comment
What is TENS and EMS
March 8, 2019 August 31, 2018 by Kyle
What are TENS and EMS? TENS stands for Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) therapy involves the use of low-voltage electric currents to treat pain. Electrodes or mediums for electricity to travel to the body, placed on the body at the site of pain deliver electricity that travels through the nerve fibers. The … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags ankle pain, ems, foot pain, tens, tens or emsLeave a comment
Why use a Night Splint?
January 22, 2019 August 31, 2018 by Kyle
Have you been experiencing consistent pain issues with your foot or ankle due to plantar fasciitis or achilles tendonitis? If so you might want to use a night splint as part of your treatment or recovery plan. So why use a night splint? What are Night Splints Used For? Night splints can be used to treat many feet or … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags achilles tendonitis, night splint, plantar fasciitisLeave a comment
TENS or EMS for Ankle Pain
March 8, 2019 August 24, 2018 by Kyle
Spraining your ankle can be painful, so can ankle tendonitis. You may have hurt your ankle a while ago and you still have pain. There are many ways to treat the ankle pain. Two methods that you might not hear about so often are TENS or EMS for ankle pain. What are TENS and EMS? … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags ankle pain, ankle sprain, ems, foot pain, plantar fasciitis, tens, tens or emsLeave a comment
Best Walking Boot for Plantar Fasciitis
March 6, 2019 August 10, 2018 by Kyle
What is the Best Walking Boot for Plantar Fasciitis Normally a review would cover many different types of products and tell you which product is the best for a particular issue. In this case, I am going to forgo all the comparison’s and get straight to the point. The best walking boot for plantar fasciitis … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Resources, ReviewsTags aircast, plantar fasciitis, sprained ankle, walking bootLeave a comment
Should I Wear an Ankle Brace
March 8, 2019 May 25, 2018 by Kyle
Why Should I Wear an Ankle Brace So you just sprained your ankle, and you have started your regiment of RICE. Healing your ankle ligaments can take up to six weeks. You need to stabilize your ankle while it heals. The best way to stabilize the ankle is with an ankle brace. The brace will … Read more
Categories Foot Health, Information, ResourcesTags ankle, ankle brace, ankle sprainLeave a comment
Post navigation
Older posts
1 2 Next →
Product Highlight
Best Walking Boot for Plantar Fasciitis
Learn more
Recent Posts
Rigid Ankle Braces for Maximum Support
Best Rigid Ankle Brace
Alternative Crutches Help Ease the Pain
Alternative to Crutches for Foot Injury
Massaging Your Way Out of Foot Pain
Follow Me
Facebook
Pinterest
Disclaimer
HelpMyFootPain is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, and as an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. Amazon Associates is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites
© 2019 Help My Foot Pain • Powered by GeneratePress
Home
Reviews
Foot Health
About
Disclamer
Close