Buy Bio Hgf Forte Tablet 30 Online
We deliver across India Medlife.com Upload Prescription Blog Health Articles Free Home Delivery *
Search
Cart 0
Search
Home
Diabetic Care
Diabetes Monitors
Test strips
Lancets
Diabetic Footwear
Sugar Substitute
Diabetic Teas
Herbal Supplements
Shop By Concern
Cardiac Care
Eye & Ear Care
Liver Care
Bone, Joint & Muscle Care
Stomach Care
Women's Care
Men's Care
Elderly Care
Cancer Care
Smoking Cessation
Pain Relief
Kidney Care
Respiratory Care
Memory Boosters
Diet & Nutrition
Sports Nutrition
Family Nutritions
Body Building
Weight Loss
Vitamin & Supplements
Protein Supplements
Meal Replacement
Immunity Boosters
Nutrition Bars
Health Drinks
Super Food
Omegas
Weighing Scales
Personal Care
Women's Hygiene
Personal Hygiene
Oral Health Care
Anti- Pollution Masks
Skin Care
Hair Care
Mosquito Repellent
Anti-Age
Baby & Mom Care
Naturalis Essential Oil
Pet Supplies
Medical Devices
Health Monitors
Diabetes Monitors
Blood Pressure Monitors
Thermometers
Hemoglobin Test Monitors
Nebulizer
Disposable Medical
Doctor's Corner
Suction machine
Sexual Wellness
Men's Sexual Health
Women's Sexual Health
Fertility
Condoms
Shilajeet Products
Lubricants & Massage Gels
Medlife Essentials
Cardio supplements
Diabetic supplement
Orthopedic Supplement
Liver Care
Men's Sexual Health
Immunity Boosters
Mind Wellness
Respiratory Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Stomach Care
Homeopathy
SBL - Homeopathy
Allen - Homeopathy
Bakson's - Homeopathy
Dr. Reckeweg - Homeopathy
ADEL - Homeopathy
Wheezal - Homeopathy
Well-being
Pain Relief
Body-building
Ayurveda Medicine
Women Care
First Aid Kits
Ayurveda Products
Top Selling Products
'); // menu.show(); // } else { navigation.html(' '); menu.hide(); // }
Search
Home › Bio Hgf Forte Tablet 30
Bio Hgf Forte Tablet 30
Medlife
Rs. 480.00 Rs. 480.00
1 - Rs. 480.00
Uses :
Biotin Biotin is prescribed for the treatment and prevention of biotin deficiency. It is used for the treatment and prevention of hair loss. It is prescribed to improve the thickness of finger and toe nails in the patients having brittle nails. It alleviates nerve pain the diabetic patients. Biotin reduces the levels of blood sugar levels when taken in combination with chromium. Calcium pantothenate Calcium pantothenate is used for the treatment and prevention of pantothenic acid deficiency. It is used for the prevention of skin reactions in the patients undergoing radiation therapy. Zinc Zinc is usually prescribed for the treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency. It is used for the treatment of diarrhea. It reduces the symptoms of Wilson’s disease. It is used for the treatment of acne. Gingivitis, peptic ulcers, and muscle cramps. It is used to treat foot ulcers in the diabetic patient. It enhances wound healing in the patients with burns. It is used to reduce the risk of anemia. It is used to reduce the symptoms of anorexia. Zinc supplements are used for the treatment of common cold, atopic eczema, psoriasis and macular degeneration. L-methionine L-Methionine is an amino acid which is mainly used as an antidote for acetaminophen poisoning. It is also used as a chelating agent for heavy metals. L-cysteine L-cysteine hydrochloride is less popular known amino acid. It is mainly used in the adverse reactions of acetaminophen or its overdose. Ferrous sulpahate Ferrous sulphate is used in the treatment of iron deficiency anemia. It may also be used in iron disorders.
Mode of drug action
Biotin Biotin is a water soluble vitamin. It is also known as vitamin B7 or vitamin H. Biotin is a cofactor plays a role in several enzymatic reactions such as carboxylation, formation of acetyl co A etc. Biotin plays an important role in the catalysis of metabolic reactions such as biosynthesis of fatty acids. It decreases the serum triglycerides and vLDL and reduces the risk of heart attack. Biotin also plays a role in the gluconeogenesis. It converts the fat and other complex sugar molecules into glucose and produces energy. It plays a role in the amino acid catabolism and enhances the formation of protein. Biotin along with folic acid enhances the fetus growth in the uterus. Biotin improves growth of hair and nails. Calcium pantothenate Calcium pantothenate is a pantothenic acid supplements which is a water soluble vitamin. Oantothenic acid is a precursor of coenzyme A and takes part in various metabolic functions such as metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. It also plays an important role in the synthesis of steroids, porphyrins and acetylcholine. It is essential for maintain normal epithelial functions. It is prescribed for the infants and children to prevent deficiency diseases. Zinc Zinc is an essential trace element. It plays a vital role in the protein synthesis and in the cell division. It is essential for the proper growth and functioning of the body. It plays an important role in the immune functioning, wound healing, blood clotting, thyroid functioning and, absorption and utilization of vitamin A. Zinc improves the absorption of vitamin A and improves vision. L-methionine L-Methionine has anti-hepatotoxic activity. However, its mechanism of action is not clearly known. A high dose of acetaminophen or paracetamol decreases the hepatic glutathione levels, increases oxidative stress and increases the risk of hepatotoxicity. L-Methionine is a precursor of L-cysteine which has antioxidant activity. Therefore, L-methionine decreases the oxidative stress and reduces the risk of hepatotoxicity in the patients having acetaminophen poisoning. L-cysteine L-cysteine hydrochloride is an essential amino acid. It is synthesized from methionine through trans-sulfaration pathway. Metabolism of L-cysteine hydrochloride produces pyruvate and inorganic sulfate as final products which are further used in the pathway of carbohydrate metabolism. Ferrous sulphate Ferrous sulphate produces iron required by the body. It produces red blood cells to prevent conditions like poor diet, excess bleeding, pregnancy etc.
What are the common side effects?
Biotin Biotin is safe and nontoxic. No major side effects are reported for biotin. Stomach upset and mild skin rash are the two most common side effect reported by the patients who were on biotin therapy. Calcium pantothenate No major side effects are reported for calcium pantothenate. Some patients reported to experience nausea and vomiting. Zinc The most common side effects reported are nausea, bad taste, diarrhea, vomiting, mouth irritation, and, rarely, mouth sores. L-methionine L-Methionine is safe when taken as prescribed by the physician. High doses of L-methionine can increase the level of homocysteine and increases the risk of heart diseases. Some common side effects include headache, nausea, and vomiting. L-cysteine The common side effects of L-cysteine hydrochloride are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation headache, drowsiness, hypotension, and liver problems. Ferrous sulphate Some of the common side effects of ferrous sulphate include constipation, diarrhea, stomach cramps, and stomach upset.
Warning
Pregnancy: Safe under medical guidance Breast feeding: Safe under medical guidance Alcohol: Unsafe Kidney dysfunction: Caution required Liver dysfunction: Caution required
Special precautions for safe use
• Do not use Bio HGF Forte drug for longer duration of time.
• Do not take the drug Bio HGF Forte if allergic to any of its ingredients.
• Be cautious and do not take Bio HGF Forte drug without doctor’s prescription.
• Do not take a double dose of Bio HGF Forte medication if the previous one was missed.
• Consult a doctor before using the drug Bio HGF Forte if there is a history of liver or kidney disease.
• Be cautious in taking Bio HGF Forte drug if there is a history of biliary duct dysfunction or Wilson’s disease.
What else should I know?
1. Can I take biotin supplements during pregnancy? Yes. Biotin improves the fetal growth so; you can take biotin supplements during pregnancy. Consult your physician before taking the biotin supplements to know the right dose required for you.
2. Does biotin helps in the re-growth of the eye lashes? Yes. Biotin improves the growth of hair and eye-lashes. You can consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Does biotin helps in weight loss? Biotin reduces the cholesterol levels and causes weight loss. Consult your physician to get the right dose of this medication in your weight loss regimen.
4. Can I take any other medications along with Biotin supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
5. Does biotin helps to control blood glucose levels? Yes. Studies have shown that biotin supplements have reduced the blood glucose levels in the diabetic patients. Consult your physician before taking biotin supplements for safe use. Calcium Pantothenate
1. What dietary restrictions I should follow while taking calcium pantothenate supplements? You should avoid drinking alcohol while taking calcium pantothenate supplements.
2. Are calcium pantothenate supplements safe for children? Yes, calcium pantothenate supplements are safe for children.
3. Is it safe to take calcium pantothenate supplements during pregnancy? Yes, calcium pantothenate supplements are safe during pregnancy. Consult your physician for safe use.
4. How should I take calcium pantothenate supplements? You should take calcium pantothenate supplements every day after meals. Follow the instructions given by your physician or the manufacturer for safe use.
5. Can I take any other medications along with calcium pantothenate supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications. Selenium
1. How should I store selenium supplements? Selenium supplements should be stores at room temperature away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is selenium safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Selenium is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with selenium supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. What are the dietary sources of selenium? High levels of selenium can be found in fish, shell fish, red meat, grains, eggs, chicken, and liver.
5. Is selenium useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, selenium is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. Zinc
1. How should I store zinc supplements? Zinc supplements should be stores at room temperature away from direct sunlight and moisture.
2. Is zinc safe for pregnant and lactating females? Yes. Zinc is safe for pregnant and lactating females. However, consult your physician before taking the medication.
3. Can I take any other medications along with zinc supplements? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
4. What dietary restrictions should I follow while taking zinc supplements? Zinc does not interact with most of the food substances. Avoid consuming alcohol while taking zinc supplements. Consult your physician for safe use.
5. Is zinc useful for the treatment of anemia? Yes, zinc is prescribed in combination with other medications for the treatment of anemia. L-Methionine
1. How should I take L-Methionine? Take L-Methionine with, or just after meals. Follow the instructions of physician for safe use.
2. Are there any special dietary recommendations that I need to follow while taking the medication? Include enough protein in the diet to prevent abnormal weight gain. Consult the physician to know more.
3. Is L-Methionine prescribed to infants and children? Yes. L-Methionine is prescribed to infants and children with slight dose changes.
4. Can I take any other medications along with L-Methionine? You must discuss with your doctor before taking any other medications.
5. How should I store L-Methionine tablets? Store L-Methionine tablets at room temperature; keep away from heat and direct sunlight. L-cysteine
1. What is the difference between L-cysteine and L-cysteine hydrochloride? L-cysteine is the organic salt and L-cysteine hydrochloride is the combination of hydrochloric acid and L-cysteine which convert L-cysteine into water soluble compound.
2. Is L-cysteine more beneficial than L-cysteine hydrochloride? Yes. L-cysteine hydrochloride has high shelf life and more stable than L-cysteine. Ferrous sulphate
1.How should I store ferrous sulphate medicine? Ferrous sulphate medicine must be stored at room temperature.
2. Can I use herbal supplements along with ferrous sulphate? No. Do not use herbal supplements along with ferrous sulphate to avoid interactions.
3.Is it safe to use ferrous sulphate medicine during pregnancy? Yes. It is safe to use during pregnancy, however consult a physician before using any medicine.
4. Is ferrous sulphate used in the treatment of anemia? Yes. Ferrous sulphate is prescribed with other combinations in the treatment of anemia.
5. What if I miss the dose? Do not take double dose; instead take the next scheduled dose.
Share 0 Tweet Pin it 0 Fancy +1
You may also like
Xyzal 5 Mg Tablet 15
Rs. 103.50 Rs. 103.50
Trika
Rs. 140.00 Rs. 140.00 Rs. 100.00 Rs. 100.00
SHIGRU CAP
Rs. 110.00 Rs. 110.00
Voveran Tpm Gel 30 Gm
Rs. 105.45 Rs. 105.45
Voveran Sr 75 MG Tablet 10
Rs. 67.00 Rs. 67.00
Quick Links
Diabetic Care
Shop By Concern
Diet & Nutrition
Personal Care
Medical Devices
Sexual Wellness
Medlife Essentials
Homeopathy
Well-being
First Aid Kits
Ayurveda Products
Top Selling Products
FSSAI License
Get In Touch
Contact us at:
contact@medlife.com
Twitter
Facebook
Explore Medlife:
- Online Medical Store
- Blog
- Health Articles
- Find Doctors - Clinics
Payment methods
Registered Office
Medlife International Private Limited
Room No. 101A, Zubaida Complex,
Exhibition Road, Patna – 800 001.
Bihar, India.
Web: www.medlife.com
Contact : 1860 1234 1234
CIN- U24230BR2014PTC023149.
Corproate Office & Biiling Address
Medlife International Private Limited
Tower –D, 5th Floor, IBC Knowledge Park,
4/1, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore – 560029.
Web: www.medlife.com
Contact: 1860 1234 1234
© 2019 Medlife Shop
Enter the mobile to get OTP
Get OTP
←
An SMS with a one time password(OTP) has been sent to
Didn’t receive SMS ?
RESEND
Confirm