Management of Perioperative Iron Deficiency Anemia.
BioPortfolio
Biotech, Healthcare and Medical Resources
BioPortfolio
Menu
Loading
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology Track topics Track topics important to you
World Biotech and Healthcare News
Published Research
Market Reports
Channels
Clinical Trials
Drugs
Corporations
Advertisement
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology
Track topics on Twitter Track topics that are important to you
Printed From BioPortfolio.com
Management of Perioperative Iron Deficiency Anemia.
08:00 EDT 10th April 2019 | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » Anesthesiology » Research » Management of Perioperative Iron Deficiency Anemia.
Summary of "Management of Perioperative Iron Deficiency Anemia."
Preoperative anemia affects 30-40% of patients undergoing major surgery and is an independent risk factor for perioperative blood transfusion, morbidity, and mortality. Absolute or functional iron deficiency is its leading cause. Nonanemic hematinic deficiencies are also prevalent and may hamper preoperative hemoglobin optimization and/or recovery from postoperative anemia. As modifiable risk factors, anemia and hematinic deficiencies should be detected and corrected prior to major surgical procedures. Postoperative anemia is even more common (up to 80-90%) due to surgery-associated blood loss, inflammation-induced blunted erythropoiesis, and/or preexisting anemia. Preoperative oral iron may have a role in mild-to-moderate anemia, provided there is sufficient time (6-8 weeks) and adequate tolerance of oral preparations. Postoperative oral iron is of little value and rife with gastrointestinal adverse events. Intravenous iron should preferentially be used in cases of moderate-to-severe iron deficiency anemia, concomitant use of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, short time to surgery or nonelective procedures, and for postoperative anemia management. Minor infusion reactions to intravenous iron are rare, the incidence of severe anaphylactic reactions is extremely low, and there is no increase in infections with intravenous iron. Currently available intravenous iron formulations allowing administration of large single doses are preferred.
Affiliation
Journal Details
This article was published in the following journal.
Name: Acta haematologica
ISSN: 1421-9662
Pages: 21-29
Links
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30970362
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1159/000496965
PubMed Articles [11435 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
Effect of Helicobacter pylori Treatment on Unexplained Iron Deficiency Anemia.
A large number of patients with iron deficiency anemia have no known cause of their anemia despite a full evaluation. Optimal management and follow-up for this issue is unclear. Results of previous st...
Pagophagia in men with iron-deficiency anemia.
Few case series of pagophagia and iron deficiency include men. We performed a retrospective study of non-Hispanic white men with iron-deficiency anemia whose anemia and pagophagia, thrombocytosis, and...
Patient Blood Management: Preoperative Anemia and Case Reports from the Anemia Walk-In Clinic.
Preoperative anemia is independently associated with increased morbidity and mortality and represents the strongest predictor for transfusion of red blood cells. Iron deficiency anemia is the most fre...
Perinatal Iron Deficiency: Implications for Mothers and Infants.
Iron deficiency, with or without anemia, is common in pregnant women. In fact, nearly 30% of reproductive-age women are anemic worldwide, and anemia in pregnancy has an estimated global prevalence of ...
Iron Deficiency Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease.
Iron deficiency anemia is a common complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD patients suffer from both absolute and functional iron deficiency. Absolute iron deficiency is defined by severely ...
Clinical Trials [6492 Associated Clinical Trials listed on BioPortfolio]
Improvement of Fatigue Symptoms in the Iron Deficiency Anemia With Iron Succinylate Therapy
The treatment of anemia depends on its cause. Patients with underlying iron-deficient anemia should be treated or referred to a specialist (eg gynecologist, gastroenterologist) for treatme...
Impact and Evaluation of the Management of Iron Deficiency With or Without Anemia in Patients With Cancer
In oncology, anemia is a frequent symptom, leading to complication of patient management for, more or less, a long term but often poorly evaluated by medical teams. In oncology, anemia is...
Iron Metabolism Parameters At First Trimester and preGnancy outcomE
Iron deficiency anemia is the leading cause of anemia during pregnancy, which can still reach 10 to 20% of pregnant women in developed countries, with potentially serious consequences for ...
Effect of Consuming Food Cooked in Iron Utensils on Iron Status in Children With Iron Deficiency Anemia (IDA)
Iron deficiency is a common problem in the world and more so in the developing countries with a prevalence of 64 % (using WHO cut-off values of Hb
Fetal Vascular Hemodynamic Changes in Iron Deficiency Anemia
Iron deficiency anemia is a worldwide medical disorder. So far, it is the most common medical complication in pregnancy specially in developing countries. It is the cause of many adverse e...
Medical and Biotech [MESH] Definitions
Anemia, Iron-deficiency
Anemia characterized by decreased or absent iron stores, low serum iron concentration, low transferrin saturation, and low hemoglobin concentration or hematocrit value. The erythrocytes are hypochromic and microcytic and the iron binding capacity is increased.
Iron, Dietary
Iron or iron compounds used in foods or as food. Dietary iron is important in oxygen transport and the synthesis of the iron-porphyrin proteins hemoglobin, myoglobin, cytochromes, and cytochrome oxidase. Insufficient amounts of dietary iron can lead to iron-deficiency anemia.
Anemia, Hypochromic
Anemia characterized by a decrease in the ratio of the weight of hemoglobin to the volume of the erythrocyte, i.e., the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration is less than normal. The individual cells contain less hemoglobin than they could have under optimal conditions. Hypochromic anemia may be caused by iron deficiency from a low iron intake, diminished iron absorption, or excessive iron loss. It can also be caused by infections or other diseases, therapeutic drugs, lead poisoning, and other conditions. (Stedman, 25th ed; from Miale, Laboratory Medicine: Hematology, 6th ed, p393)
Folic Acid Deficiency
A nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of FOLIC ACID in the diet. Many plant and animal tissues contain folic acid, abundant in green leafy vegetables, yeast, liver, and mushrooms but destroyed by long-term cooking. Alcohol interferes with its intermediate metabolism and absorption. Folic acid deficiency may develop in long-term anticonvulsant therapy or with use of oral contraceptives. This deficiency causes anemia, macrocytic anemia, and megaloblastic anemia. It is indistinguishable from vitamin B 12 deficiency in peripheral blood and bone marrow findings, but the neurologic lesions seen in B 12 deficiency do not occur. (Merck Manual, 16th ed)
Iron Overload
An excessive accumulation of iron in the body due to a greater than normal absorption of iron from the gastrointestinal tract or from parenteral injection. This may arise from idiopathic hemochromatosis, excessive iron intake, chronic alcoholism, certain types of refractory anemia, or transfusional hemosiderosis. (From Churchill's Illustrated Medical Dictionary, 1989)
Advertisement
Quick Links
Advanced Search | Login | Subscribe | RSS
Quick Search
Advertisement
Advertisement
Relevant Topics
Anesthesiology
An anesthesiologist (US English) or anaesthetist (British English) is a physician trained in anesthesia and perioperative medicine. Anesthesiologists are physicians who provide medical care to patients in a wide variety of (usually acute) situations. ...
Blood
Blood is a specialized bodily fluid that delivers necessary substances to the body's cells (in animals) – such as nutrients and oxygen – and transports waste products away from those same cells. In vertebrates, it is composed of blo...
PubMed Database Quicklinks
Search PubMed Journal Article Database
Latest PubMed Articles
PubMed Journal List
Popular PubMed Articles
Recent Journal Article Searches
Searches Linking to this Article
BioPortfolio Limited
About Us
Contact Us
Social Media
Twitter (200+ Accounts)
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Publish Content
Publish
Publish Your Press Release
Advertise
Agreements
Agreements
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy
Tools
MyBioPortfolio
RSS
Help
FAQs
Sitemaps
XML Sitemap
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here.
The information provided by BioPortfolio.com is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The BioPortfolio site is sponsored BioPortfolio Limited with offices at Stafford House, 10 Prince of Wales Road, Dorchester, DT1 1PW, England. If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of “Fair Use” and legitimately infringes on your or your client's copyright we may be contacted concerning copyright matters here: Contact BioPortfolio.
All rights reserved. All other trademarks recognized. Copyright © 1997-2019 BioPortfolio Limited. Site developed by Alacrify Ltd.