Ovarian Cysts
PHONE 03 9416 1586
Toggle menu
OBSTETRICS
Gynaecology
Infertility
IVF SPECIALIST
PHONE 03 9416 1586
Home
About
Dr Joseph Sgroi
My Team
Your First Visit
Your First Visit
Payment Policy
FAQ
In the Media
Pregnancy
Pregnancy Care
Tests in Pregnancy
Pregnancy Health
Birth
Pregnancy Tips and Hacks
Videos
Fertility
General Issues
Male Infertility
Female Infertility
IVF and IUI
Recurrent Miscarriage
Women’s Health
Gynaecology
Advanced Laparoscopic
More Info
Videos
Blog
Hello Bump Podcast
Contact Us
Ovarian Cysts
Home > Ovarian Cysts
Ovarian Cysts
An ovarian cyst is a fluid filled sac or pouch which forms on the ovary. Ovarian cysts, in most cases are harmless and resolve on their own. If the cyst is cancerous, it may cause problems and thus need medical intervention. Ovarian cysts are common in women of childbearing age.
Symptoms
Ovarian cysts are symptomless most of the times but may cause variable abdominal or pelvic pain or pain during intercourse. If the cyst is large, it may cause twisting of the ovary that leads to pain.
Diagnosis
Ovarian cysts may be diagnosed during a routine pelvic examination, such as a Pap smear. I may recommend tests such as vaginal ultrasound, CT or MRI scan. If you are a menopausal woman, then in addition to ultrasound I may order for blood tests to measure tumour markers (substances produced by certain types of cysts) which give useful information in the diagnosis and prognosis.
Treatment
Most ovarian cysts will resolve on own without any treatment. Birth control pills may be prescribed to reduce the formation of new ovarian cysts. Surgery is an option if the cyst does not go away, larger in size, or causes pain and also in menopausal women or who are nearing menopause. Cystectomy is a surgical excision of an ovarian cyst.
Cystectomy is a surgical procedure during which the ovarian cyst is removed via laparoscopy or very occasionally open surgery approach. A laparoscopic cystectomy procedure is a minimally invasive surgery during which a laparoscope, a long thin instrument with a camera attached at one end is used. The procedure is usually done under general anaesthesia and a small incision in the navel. A laparoscope is inserted through this incision to see the inside of your pelvis and abdomen. Carbon dioxide gas is introduced into the abdominal cavity to create more space to work. I will identify the cyst through the laparoscope and remove the cyst. This technique is usually used to remove small cysts.A laparoscopic cystectomy removes only the cyst leaving the ovaries intact. However, if the cyst is too large or connected to ovarian tissue, a decision, in consultation with you may be made to remove all or part of the ovary.
After the procedure
Following ovarian cyst removal, complete recovery usually takes about one to two weeks. The ovaries return to normal function after a cystectomy is performed.
RECEIVE PREGNANCY & FERTILITY ADVICE FROM DR. JOSEPH SGROI
Leave this field empty if you're human:
OBSTETRICS
Gynaecology
Infertility
IVF SPECIALIST
© 2018. All Rights Reserved