Can You Get Rid of an Indented Scar? - Scars and Spots
Scars and Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
About INVICIBLE
Press
Subscribe
Buy NOW
April 20, 2019
Scars and Spots > Get Rid of Scars > Acne Scars > Can You Get Rid of an Indented Scar?
InviCible Scars December 2, 2015 16 Comments
Can You Get Rid of an Indented Scar?
Although scarring is a natural and necessary phase of healing, this process sometimes leaves indentations, puckering, or pockmarking where the tissue below the skin has been damaged or lost. These are called atrophic scars, most commonly caused by acne, injury, and surgery. Although some level of scarring may be permanent, there are safe topical treatments available to help restore this underlying tissue and smooth the surface of the skin to reduce the appearance of scars. These treatments include a blend of vitamins and nutrients that have demonstrated a significant clinical benefit to skin healing and scar reduction.
Scars and Skin Form Differently
Scar tissue is built from the same collagen protein as normal skin, but the fibers are arranged differently. Where natural skin is a somewhat randomly assorted matrix, which allows sweat glands and hair follicles to form, scar tissue fibers are arranged in strong, though less flexible, parallel layers that do not allow for sweat glands or hair follicles.
When skin is damaged by injury, surgery, or acne, the skin layers are forcibly separated. Once the interference is removed or resolved, the skin immediately begins to generate new cells, adding fibers of collagen in roughly diagonal rows. Many factors affect the speed of this process, as well as what kind of scar eventually forms.
Minimizing Scars as they Heal
While the scar is forming, the layers of skin that come together may not align properly if the wound moves too much, or the skin becomes too dry or too damp. Therefore, during the healing process, it is important to both immobilize the area to maintain proper alignment, and to ensure that the skin along the edges does not dry out or become too moist.
Using a properly formulated scar treatment, such as InviCible Scars, as directed during the healing process helps to maintain proper elasticity while also feeding the skin vitamins and nutrients that are essential for healing.
InviCible Advanced Scar Therapy includes vitamin C, licorice, and aloe vera to completely heal the area, and restore elasticity and skin tone, as well as silicone and essential fatty acids to reduce skin pocking and indentation.
For years, vitamin E was used topically as well, but this has recently been discouraged by dermatology experts as it can cause skin irritation. Other ingredients to avoid include hydroquinone, Kojic acid, and anything with fragrance or preservatives.
Reducing Scars after Healing
Skin and scar tissue continually regenerates and replaces cell layers throughout our lives. Though this process is more gradual than the initial healing, it does mean that the appearance of scars can be altered even after they have fully formed. If given the proper tools, the body will continue to heal and repair old scars.
InviCible Advanced Scar Therapy comes highly recommended by doctors who treat skin disease, such as acne, or perform surgery. Regular application of our nutrient-rich product helps to drive the healing process and reduces the appearance of scars and uneven skin tone.
Do you have a question about your scar? Leave a comment and let us know!
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Burn Scars, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars, Surgery Scars Tagged: acne scars, get rid of scars, indented scars, scar treatment
« Can Certain Foods Reduce Acne Scars?
Is it Hyperpigmentation or Melanoma? »
The information on this site is provided as an information resource only, and is not to be used or relied on for any diagnostic or treatment purposes. Please speak to your doctor to treat any medical condition. Information on this site is not intended to be patient education, does not create any patient-physician relationship, and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.
Comments
The information on this site is provided as an information resource only, and is not to be used or relied on for any diagnostic or treatment purposes. Please speak to your doctor to treat any medical condition. Information on this site is not intended to be patient education, does not create any patient-physician relationship, and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.
Sheri says:
September 29, 2016 at 3:19 pm
I have been using your product for a couple of months on a scar on my face from spider bite. It is much better, but there is a small indented area like a line, still. The injury occurred in June. Do you think if I continue with this it can help to raise the sunken area still?
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
September 29, 2016 at 3:49 pm
Hi Sheri, there isn’t a topical treatment that can raise an indent (that is an under-production of collagen during healing.) There are some things you can have done, like micro-needling and dermabrasion that can help to create micro-injuries (sounds worse than it is) that then stimulate the body to produce collagen to the indented area. Thank you for using InviCible Scars and feel free to contact our customer service if you have any other questions!
Reply
mayank says:
November 19, 2016 at 5:39 am
Reently i used retin a which peeled off my skin from cheeks area . After that i discontinued the use of retin a but still now a very light scar is visible on that region of my cheeks area and is more visible in more lighting and day light. What should i do to again heal that skin?? Help please
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
December 5, 2016 at 12:05 pm
Hi Mayank, use a scar treatment with stable vitamin C for about 12 weeks, in addition, since the scarring is on your face, you should also be wearing sunscreen regularly to protect it from further darkening.
Reply
Crystal says:
March 5, 2017 at 10:00 pm
I still have indented on my face from having the shingles will they ever go away?
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
March 18, 2017 at 7:00 pm
Hi Crystal, indented scars can be treated through micro-needling and dermabrashion.
Reply
Amanda says:
May 20, 2017 at 8:29 pm
Will this work on scars that have been indented for about 4 years
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
July 12, 2017 at 5:14 pm
Hi Amanda, there isn’t a topical cream that works on indentation. However, there are non-surgical options like dermabrasion and micro-needling that can help. Links to them are in the post.
Reply
Jason says:
October 19, 2017 at 1:11 pm
I have a scar on my cheek that is as big as a quarter and is indented I had a zit that turned into a scar I used salt to heal it but I was using a washcloth with saltwater and ripped the scab off not this indent won’t go away. It looks like a white hole on my cheek. Help me plz
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
October 20, 2017 at 5:05 pm
Hi Jason, salt won’t heal a scar, it is likely to irritate the wound instead. There aren’t any topical creams that can help restore collagen to a scar, but there are treatments like microneedling and dermabrasion.
Reply
Angellee says:
October 20, 2017 at 12:43 am
I have an indention scar on my cheek from a scrapping a Dr. did in a bearly seen skin colored mole ..now I’m scarred it’s been about a month ..he is doing laser treatme t but it’s still there will it ever go away ??
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
October 20, 2017 at 4:51 pm
Hi Angellee, laser treatment should help. Are you also using a scar treatment as a completmenting scar therapy?
Reply
Phoenix says:
November 12, 2017 at 3:45 am
I have a scar from a spider in the middle of my forehead. It’s about as big as the nail on your small finger and has made an awful dent. I’ve had it since July this year. I’ve been using this vitamin C scar gel but it doesn’t seem to be fading. Will it ever go away? If so, how long?
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
June 27, 2018 at 1:39 pm
How long have you been using the gel, how often have you been applying it, is it a stable form of vitamin c in the gel and are you pairing it with sunscreen to protect it from further sun damage?
Reply
Henry Modrich says:
March 28, 2018 at 7:59 am
I have indented scars from acne and there are like a lot of little pit holes nearby each other on my face. Is there anyway to heal these naturally and is there any study that if I dint treat it and make sure I have good cleaning regime on my face (faceeashing, moisturizer faily) that my indented scars will heal naturally. I am 18 and I’m really scared for treating it like laser or something .. I am very depressed and sometime i hate myself so much that I dint want to go out..
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
May 19, 2018 at 3:12 pm
Hi Henry, Definitely read through the blog as there are many posts as it relates to acne. Some solutions would be dermabrasion for indented scars, which would be done at a dermatologist or esthetician’s office.
Reply
Speak Your Mind Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
EMAIL NEWSLETTER
Sign up to receive our free monthly newsletter with tips and advice on how to treat dark spots and scars.
Enter your email address...
Subscribe to Scars and Spots
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Buy Now
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Popular Posts
Can You Tattoo Over Scars?
How to Remove Dark Spots from Razor Bumps and Ingrown Hair
How Do You Soften Scar Tissue?
Why Does a Scar Turn White?
Are Second Degree Burn Scars Permanent?
How to Fade Shingles Scars
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bite Scars
Why Do Scars Itch?
Is a Red Scar a Permanent Scar?
Why Do Surgical Scars Itch?
Press
About INVICIBLE
InviCible has a superior safety profile and is also hypoallergenic. It contains NO hydroquinone, preservatives, fragrances, petroleum, mineral oil, or alcohol. It is not tested on animals.
Privacy Policy Cookie Policy
RECENT POSTS
Scar Cream Available Internationally on Amazon
Cosmetic Surgeon Red Flags You Should Not Ignore
Pediatric Sun Exposure – Tips from St. Jude to Protect Your Child
How to Get Rid of Scars Fast
How Long Does it Take a Hypertrophic Scar to Heal?
My Scar Won’t Stop Itching, Is This Normal?
SEARCH
Search Tags
Acne Scars Acne Tips Age Spots Breast Cancer Scars Breast Surgery Scars Burn Scars Chemical Peels C Section Scars Dark Scars Exercise Facelift Scars Face Scars Get Rid of Dark Spots Get Rid of Scars Hyperpigmentation Hypertrophic Scars InviCible Scars Reviews Keloid Scars Mastectomy Scars Melanoma Scars Melasma New or Old Scars Nutrition Plastic Surgery Scars Scar Healing Tips Skin Care Tips Skin Resurfacing Skin Spots Skin Treatments Sun Spots Surgery Scars Tummy Tuck Scars Uneven Skin Tone
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in