Recouleur Vitamins | A Help for Vitiligo
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Menu Search
Recouleur
Cart
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Menu
Home
Vitiligo Products
About
FAQ
Vitiligo Learning Center
Blog
Cart
Contact Us
One Tablet a Day
Clinical research shows that people with vitiligo can have abnormally low levels of folic acid, vitamins B12 and C, copper and zinc.
Recouleur combines all of these in ONE daily tablet.
Empower Yourself
And Fight Back!
We Know Vitiligo
From the Inside Out
New! Camouflage Makeup Spray
Good for Men, Women, Children
Shake, Spray, Done!
Our Featured Products
Recouleur® Vitamins (180 count - 6 month supply)
9 Review(s)
$97.99
The Use of Vitamin Therapy for the Treatment of Vitiligo
3 Review(s)
$24.95
Vitiligo Camouflage Makeup Spray Air Stocking
5 Review(s)
$38.99
Vitiligo Camouflage Makeup Spray Air Stocking Terra-Cotta 57g (2 Oz.)
$20.79
Vitiligo Vitamin and Nutritional Therapy eBook
$34.99
Turning White: A Memoir of Change
$14.95
Skin Deep: A Mind/Body Program for Healthy Skin
2 Review(s)
$25.21
Vitamin’s Function in Vitiligo
If you suffer with vitiligo you may not realize that medical researchers have discovered certain vitamins may be helpful in treating this skin depigmentation condition. For instance, studies show us that people with this skin disorder are often “vitiligo vitamin deficient.” These vitamins include folic acid, B-12, copper, and zinc.
Vitiligo treatment vitamins are often prescribed by doctors to help stabilize the immune system in combination with other treatments when vitiligo is diagnosed as an autoimmune disorder. Studies show us that vitamin B-12 for vitiligo and vitiligo folic acid, for example, along with sun exposure, are also beneficial in supporting the reappearance of color in de-pigmented skin. That’s because a significant body of data suggests when vitamin D3 (from sun exposure), B-12, and folic acid are deficient, these low levels are associated with autoimmune conditions.
Since multiple clinical studies have determined that B-12 for vitiligo supplementation works better when combined with folic acid, and copper and zinc have been shown to support cellular skin turnover, healing and free radical destruction, Recouleur® Vitamins combine the needed supplementation for vitiligo support in one unique formula.
Recouleur® Vitamin supplement for vitiligo is the nutritional therapy needed in one convenient and easy to take daily treatment that supports the reappearance of color in skin, natural gray hair reversal, and overall health. Why take a confusing number of separate vitamins and minerals multiple times daily when Recouleur® Vitamin supplement is designed specifically to help to your skin heal?
Recouleur® Vitamin supplement is specially formulated to provide you with the best vitamins and minerals you need to set the stage for re-pigmentation and healthier skin to help vitiligo sufferers.
About Recouleur®
We know vitiligo from the inside out. Recouleur® vitamins for vitiligo support the reappearance of color in de-pigmented skin and gray hair. Just one daily tablet of Recouleur® Dietary Supplement may:
- Support your body
- Set the stage for re-pigmentation
- Help improve overall health
- Simplify your routine — take the vitamins and minerals you need in one tablet
Recouleur® Dietary Supplement also supports natural hair color and gray hair reversal from within. By nourishing healthy pigment formation in the hair follicle, younger looking hair can be achieved. See our website recouleurgrayhair.com.
What’s New
Vitamin Therapy is Not New Science
The most important thing you need to know about vitiligo
What is Vitiligo?
Vitiligo or leukoderma (also called leucoderma) is a condition where skin loses melanin – the pigment that colors skin, hair, and eyes. It's characterized by bright white patches on the skin.
In 12 percent of cases, intense itching can occur at the site of skin depigmentation before a new vitiligo white spot develops. It can occur on any part of the body. It’s not contagious. It affects all ages, ethnicities, and genders. There is no cure for this skin depigmentation disorder. However, it is treatable. Treatments can slow the progression of new white patches appearing and also induce repigmentation.
Contact Us
PO Box 909
Prospect Heights, IL 60070
Email Us
Information
About
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Customer Service
Contact Us
FAQ
Site Map
Email Newsletter
Sign up to receive the Recouleur® email newsletter with vitiligo tips, health news, and product specials.
Sign Up Now
This is a double opt-in so you will need to confirm your subscription in the follow-up email.
© 2016 Supernatural Health, Inc.®