Athlete's Foot Overview
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Athlete’s Foot Overview
It used to be only serious athletes who would routinely suffer from athlete’s foot. They were the only groups that would spend their days wearing sweaty shoes, socks and walking through gym locker rooms. But now that the population is experiencing a health trend, more people work out regularly in gyms than before. With the growth in health consciousness, there is a corresponding growth in the number of people who suffer from athlete’s foot. Athlete’s foot is a fungal infection. It usually results in feet and toes that are bright red from irritation. The skin also becomes damaged as your feet peel or crack or become full of blisters.
It is important to understand what causes athlete’s foot so that you can easily prevent this painful kind of fungal infection. This infection develops when you provide it with a dark, warm and wet area in which to grow. The fungus loves the abundance of dead skin around your feet, especially when you wear wet shoes that are warm from exercise. Warm, sweaty shoes are the perfect habitat for fungus as well as bacteria. Once you get athlete’s foot, you can infect other people through wet surfaces like bath mats or locker room floors.
There are very simple steps that you can take to avoid athlete’s foot. They require a certain amount of mindfulness when it comes to hygiene and walking barefoot in public areas. Here is a list of basic things that everyone can do to both prevent athlete’s foot and avoid spreading it to other people:
Make sure to clean your feet very regularly. If you have any abrasions or cuts on your feet, this will prevent bacterial infections. You should also try to remove the dead skin and make sure you scrub your toes and your feet, paying close attention to your toenails. Keeping your toenails clean can help to remove any fungus growing in those often forgotten areas.
Always dry your feet thoroughly after you wash them. Wait a few minutes after they have dried before you put shoes or socks on your feet. You can use the warm function on a hair dryer to remove any moisture from your feet. You may also consider using an anti-fungal foot powder to help keep them dry throughout the day.
Always wear clean socks rather than reusing socks that have already been worn, and have not yet been washed. If you are active or naturally have sweaty feet, you may consider changing your socks a few times each day to make sure that your feet remain dry. Soaking dirty socks in water that has been boiled may help you kill any fungus spores living on your socks.
You should consider dusting the inside of each of your shoes with the same anti-fungal powder that you use on your feet.
Always let your shoes dry after you wear them. The best way to do this is to rotate your shoes so that you do not wear the same shoes every day.
When you are at the pool or the gym, you should wear sandals or shower shoes to prevent having to walk barefoot on the tile floor.
If you become infected with athlete’s foot, you can consider several ways of treating it. There are natural treatments that many people find very useful. You can consider applying vitamin E to the irritated area to relieve pain and itching. You may also consider trying a supplement called acidophilus which is mixed into a glass of water. You take this supplement in the morning and the evening. There are types of bacteria that you can use to supplement your diet. Some bacteria will help you restore a normal amount of healthy bacteria in your body, which will improve your overall health.
If a natural remedy is not for you, you may consider an over-the-counter treatment for your fungal infections.
There are topical creams available at pharmacies which include the ingredient clotrimazole. This ingredient is one of the most common ingredients in controlling fungal infections.
If you have athlete’s foot, you will do well to follow the precautionary tips provided above to help you clear it up and avoid reinfection. You should, however, avoid brushing your feet when you have athlete’s foot because it will cause more irritation to the area.
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Treatments for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT Treatments
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Related Articles
Natural Cures for Athlete’s Foot
The 3 Main Causes of Toenail Fungal Infections
Au Kah Chuen Antifungal Lotion Review
Mellowleaf Beauty Tea Tree Oil Review
Generic Lotrimin Clotrimazole Anti-Fungal Cream USP Review
Crystalline Salts Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
Quantum Health Athlete’s Foot Cure Review
Athlete’s Foot Killer Review
Subscribe Now!
Join with thousands who are getting EXCLUSIVE CONTENT, videos, and deals
you won't find anywhere else.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
NEW ARTICLES
Anti Fungal Supplements
Anti Fungal Supplements Fungal skin infections are...
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch Jock itch (tinea cruris)...
Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet Doug Kaufmann, the a...
Fungal Infections on the Groin
Fungal Infections on the Groin Fungus causes infec...
HOT TOPICS
1
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano Oil. The ...
2
When You Need to Talk to a Doctor About Cracked Feet
3
Oral Medications for Athlete’s Foot
Oral medication can be taken, in severe cases......
4
Medical Treatment for Athlete’s Foot
In very rare cases, medical intervention may be neeeded...
PRODUCT REVIEWS
3M Cavilon Antifungal Cream 3390 Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
All Stop Medicated Skin Cream Review
This review of All Stop Medicated Skin C...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
Introduction The following is an in-dept...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
This review on Athlete’s Foot Clear pr...
Athlete’s Foot Killer Review
Written below is an in-depth product rev...
Athletol Review
The following is an in-depth review of t...
Au Kah Chuen Antifungal Lotion Review
This is a review of Antifungal Lotion, w...
Avon Foot Works Healthy Anti-fungal Powder Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Avon F...
Bayer Lotrimin AF Athlete’s Foot Deodorant Powder Spray Review
A lot of products for Athlete’s fo...
Baza Antifungal Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream Review
This is a review of Moisture Barrier Ant...
Canesten Clotrimazole Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Canesten Clotrimazole Ath...
Clever Cultures For Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Clever Cultures For Athle...
Crawford Healthcare Cuplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Crawford Healthcare&...
Crystal Foot Deodorant Spray Review
This is a review of Foot Deodorant Spray...
Crystalline Salts Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
The following is a review for the Foot a...
CVS Athlete’s Foot Spray Review
This review of CVS Athlete’s Foot ...
Daktarin Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Today we will take a look at the Daktari...
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
This is a review of Deodorizing Foot Mis...
Derma E Tea Tree and E Oil Review
This is a review of Tea Tree and E Oil w...
Derman Antifungal Cream Review
In the following review you can find out...
Desenex Antifungal Spray Powder Review
If you want to find out everything there...
DeSensua Product Review
Introduction This is a review of Melaleu...
DG Health Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of DG Health Athlete’s...
Dr. Blaine’s Tineacide Anti-fungal Foot and Shoe Spray Review
Welcome to our review on Dr. Blaine’s ...
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete Foot Cream Review
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Fo...
Efficient Laboratories Hongo Killer Antifungal Spray Review
In this review, you can learn all there ...
Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream for Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream ...
Elite Sportz Equipment Foot and Shoe Odor Spray Review
This is a review of Elite Sportz Equipme...
Equate Athlete’s Foot Powder Spray Review
In this review, you can read about a pro...
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
If you want to find out all the details ...
Flexitol Medicated Foot Cream Review
In our in-depth review of Flexitol Medic...
Forces of Nature Review
Introduction This article is a review of...
Fungi Nail Toe and Foot Ointment Review
This review discusses the various factor...
FungiCure Anti-Fungal Liquid Gel Review
In this review, you can learn more about...
Gehwol Fusskraft Blue Review
This is a review of the product Fusskraf...
Generic Lotrimin Clotrimazole Anti-Fungal Cream USP Review
By reading this review you can find out ...
GoodSense Clotrimazole Foot Cream Review
This review for GoodSense Clotrimazole F...
Healing Natural Oils Product Review
Introduction This article reviews H-Athl...
Home Health Antifungal Lotion Review
The subject of this review is a product ...
Honga Cura Ointment Review
This review was written to give a compre...
Hydrozole Review
This is a review of Hydrozole. According...
Karite Gold Athlete’s Foot Review
This is a review of Karite Gold’s ...
Lafe’s Natural Body Care Foot Spray with Peppermint Oil Review
The following is a review of Foot Spray ...
Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Lamisil Athlete’s F...
Mar-v-cide Disinfectant & Germicidal Spray Review
In this review, you can read about Mar-v...
Meijer Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Meijer Athlete’s Fo...
Mellowleaf Beauty Tea Tree Oil Review
Meadowleaf Beauty manufacturers their ow...
Micatin Antifungal Cream Review
This review of Micatin Antifungal Cream ...
Miracle of Aloe Foot Repair Review
This review of Miracle Foot Repair for D...
Monray Antiperspirant Foot Treatment Review
If you are interested in learning more a...
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot & Body Wash Review
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot ...
Naturally Fresh Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray which...
Naturasil Review
Product Claims: Naturasil claims to c...
NatureCare AF Anti-fungal Cream Review
This is our in-depth review of NatureCar...
Natureplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Natureplex Athlete&#...
Nordic Care Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray manuf...
NutriBiotic Natural Body and Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Natural Body and Foo...
Odor Eaters Antibacterial Foot and Sneaker Spray Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Odorex Foot And Shoe Deodoriser Review
This review of Odorex Foot And Shoe Deod...
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano...
PersonalCare Antifungal Powder Spray Review
If you wish to learn more about Persona...
Podosan Athlete’s Foot Treatment Review
Welcome to our Podosan Athlete’s Foot ...
Quantum Health Athlete’s Foot Cure Review
This detailed review is for the product,...
Remedy Antifungal Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Ring Guard Ringworm Cream Review
If you’d like to find out more abo...
Rite Aid Clotrimazole Cream Review
Welcome to our review of the anti-fungal...
Rocket Pure Natural Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
Welcome to our review of Rocket Pure Nat...
S.S.S. Company Tetterine Ointment Review
This is a review of Tetterine Ointment w...
Scholl Advance Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Scholl Advance Athlete...
Telia Oils Toe and Foot Review
This is a review of the Toe and Foot ant...
Thornton and Ross Mycota Review
This is a review of Thornton & Ross ...
Tineacide Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Tineacide Athlete’s Foo...
Ting Antifungal Spray Powder Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
Vertico Footwear Company Ped Powder Organic Foot Powder Review
In this review you will learn all there ...
Walgreens Clotrimazole Anti-fungal Cream Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Walgre...
Wise Ways Herbals Tea-Tree Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Tea-Tree Foot Powder...
Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Zeasorb Athlete’s F...
Zema Cream Review
In the following review you can learn mo...
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.