A guide to magnesium - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Meals for oneMeals for one can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Videos
My workplace
Allergies and intolerances
Cancer advice
Exercise motivation
How to look after your heart
Healthy weight starts here
My family’s health
Mental wellbeing and resilience
Men’s health
Manage your diabetes
New ideas for work lunches and snacks
Quick and easy dinner ideas
Special diets/meat free diets
Staying healthy as we age
Tired and stressed?
Tips to reduce cholesterol
Women’s health
Where to get help
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
SHOPPING
A guide to magnesium
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
Magnesium seems to be the supplement of the moment, but is it all it’s cracked up to be. Dietitian Katrina Pace gives us the lowdown.
Head into any pharmacy and you’ll see row upon row of magnesium supplements. Sold as a way to help you sleep, calm down and relax your muscles, magnesium is being touted as a cure-all for our modern, stressful lives.
Magnesium is needed by our body to produce energy and to help over 600 different enzyme pathways work. Most notably, magnesium plays an important role in glucose metabolism, DNA repair and mood.
How much magnesium do we need?
The recommended dietary intake (RDI) each day for adult men is 420mg and, for women, 320mg. Getting more magnesium than we need from food is fine, as the body can easily get rid of what it doesn’t need. However, that’s not the case with magnesium supplements. For adults, if we take a supplement, it’s recommended we have no more than 350mg a day.
You might be low in magnesium:
If you eat a refined, processed Western-style diet
As you get older
When taking certain antibiotics, antacids and blood pressure medications
If you’re a smoker
After diarrhoea or vomiting
If you have coeliac disease
If you have high blood sugar levels.
What’s the evidence?
Magnesium and muscle cramps
While solid evidence is still lacking, research shows magnesium supplements may be beneficial in reducing the severity of muscle cramps. Adding in calcium and potassium to the magnesium may help even more.
Magnesium and migraine
People who get migraines often have lower magnesium levels than others. There is some evidence that improving magnesium levels may help prevent headaches for some migraine sufferers. For more on migraines, head to page 30.
Magnesium and sleep
Trials have shown that taking magnesium may improve sleep time, reduce insomnia and improve melatonin (the hormone required for sleep) production. This may be particularly helpful for older people.
Magnesium and diabetes
People with diabetes often have lower levels of magnesium. Because of its role in glucose metabolism, increased magnesium intake has been found to be beneficial in both types 1 and 2 diabetes and may help improve insulin sensitivity and blood glucose control.
Magnesium in food
Magnesium is found widely in plant foods including seeds, nuts, legumes, cereals and dark leafy greens.
Each of these foods provides 45mg-50mg of magnesium:
1 tablespoon pumpkin seeds
3 Brazil nuts
1 medium baked potato
13 raw almonds
1 cup peas
¾ cup chickpeas
1½ cups steamed silver beet
150g tarakihi
What to look for in magnesium supplements
Supplement doses vary significantly, from 125mg to 500mg. And there are several different types of magnesium. Magnesium oxide is the least readily available to the body. Magnesium chloride, lactate, citrate and aspartate seem to be more easily absorbed. If you’re buying supplements for sleep or muscle relaxation, then check the labels, as there may be other nutrients or herbals added.
Side effects
One of the first side effects of taking too much magnesium from supplements is diarrhoea, which explains why magnesium is used in some remedies for constipation. Other side effects include low blood pressure, muscle weakness, confusion, cardiac arrhythmia and decline in kidney function.
Check with your doctor to make sure a magnesium supplement won’t affect any medications or medical conditions you have.
Author: Katrina Pace
Healthy Food Guide
First published: Sep 2018
Last updated: April 11 2019
Last science review: August 16 2018
Article sources and references
de Baaij JHF et al. 2015. Magnesium in man: Implications for health and disease. Physiology Review 95:1-46
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25540137
National Health and Medical Research Council & Ministry of Health. Nutrient Reference Values for Australia and New Zealand: Magnesium, nrv.gov.au
https://www.nrv.gov.au/
National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements. Magnesium. Fact Sheet for Health Professionals Accessed June 2018
https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-HealthProfessional/
Orr SL. 2015. Diet and nutraceutical interventions for headache management: A review of the evidence. Cephalalgia 36:1112-33
http://www.cascadeneurologicheadache.com/wp-content/uploads/86.-Supplements-ComprehensiveReview.pdf
Schwalfenberg GK & Genuis SJ. 2017. The importance of magnesium in clinical healthcare. Scientifica, 2017:4179326
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29093983
Verma H & Garg R. 2017. Effect of magnesium supplementation on type 2 diabetes-associated cardiovascular risk factors: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics 5:621-33
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28150351
Veronese N et al. 2016. Effect of magnesium supplementation on glucose metabolism in people with or at risk of diabetes: A systematic review and meta-analysis of double-blind randomized controlled trials. European Journal of Clinical Nutrition 70:1354-9
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27530471
Xiaopeng J et al. 2017. The relationship between micronutrient status and sleep patterns: A systematic review. Public Health Nutrition 20:687-701
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27702409
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
workplace.healthyfood.com
magnesium, supplements
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
ADVICE
How to get your daily magnesium
ADVICE
Shopping for more magnesium
ADVICE
Behind the science: Magnesium
ADVICE
Foods to boost magnesium
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back