Treatments for Arthritis Hip and Knee Pain
Blog
Online Forum
Local Offices
Arthritis Resource Finder
Kids Get Arthritis Too
Español
About Arthritis
Understanding Arthritis
Arthritis Types
Where It Hurts
Living With Arthritis
Tools & Resources
Treatment Options
Pain Management
Arthritis Diet
Exercise
Comorbidities
Your Health Care
Coping with Change
Fighting for You
Advocacy
Scientific Discovery
Get Involved
Live Yes! Arthritis Network
Jingle Bell Run
Walk to Cure Arthritis
DIY Fundraising
Volunteer
Dinners & Galas
Bike Events
JA Conference
Juvenile Arthritis Camp
About Us
Mission & Vision
Leadership
News
Partners & Sponsors
Careers
Annual Report
Financials
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Donate
Donor Center
Membership
Member Renewal
Honors & Memorials
Matching Gifts
Support an Event
Wills, Trusts & Estates
Donor Advised Funds
About Arthritis
Home
Understanding Arthritis
Arthritis Types
Where It Hurts
Living With Arthritis
Home
Tools & Resources
Treatment Options
Pain Management
Arthritis Diet
Exercise
Comorbidities
Your Health Care
Coping with Change
Fighting for You
Home
Advocacy
Scientific Discovery
Get Involved
Home
Live Yes! Arthritis Network
Jingle Bell Run
Walk to Cure Arthritis
DIY Fundraising
Volunteer
Dinners & Galas
Bike Events
JA Conference
Juvenile Arthritis Camp
About Us
Home
Mission & Vision
Leadership
News
Partners & Sponsors
Careers
Annual Report
Financials
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Donate
Home
Donor Center
Membership
Member Renewal
Honors & Memorials
Matching Gifts
Support an Event
Wills, Trusts & Estates
Donor Advised Funds
Blog
Online Forum
Local Offices
Arthritis Resource Finder
Kids Get Arthritis Too
Español
Advertisement
Treatments
Medication
Drug Guide
Drug Types
Safety
Side Effects
Recalls
OTC Pain Medication (Infographic)
Natural Treatments
Supplements and Herbs
Vitamins Minerals
Other Therapies
Joint Surgery
Types
Candidates
Preparing
Plan
Medications for Arthritis
Benefits and Risks of Arthritis Medicines
Managing Arthritis Is More Than Treating Pain
Role of Advanced Therapies in Arthritis
Different Ways to Take Arthritis Medications
Sticking With Your Arthritis Treatment Plan
Remission
DMARDs Drug Guide
Biologics Drug Guide
Health Care
Paying For Care
Get Help Paying for Medicare and Prescriptions
Financial Aid Organizations That Help Pay for Your Medications and Surgery
Pharmaceutical Company Programs That Help Lower the Cost of Medication
Medical Finances
What You Need to Know About Flexible Spending Accounts
A Guide to Medical Tax Deductions
Six Ways to Protect Your Medical Identity
Insurance and Pharmacy
Solving Your Insurance Puzzle
Affordable Care Act: Key Provisions
Getting Health Insurance For A Child With Juvenile Arthritis
Key Health Insurance Benefits for People With Arthritis
Seven Steps to Appeal a Denied Medical Claim
Drug Pricing Tiers
Medicare
Medicare Provides Greater Access to Home Care
Managing Medicare
Your Health Care Team
Meet Your Health Care Team
Secrets to a Good Doctor-Patient Relationship
Finding the Right Doctor
The 18-Minute Doctor’s Appointment Challenge
Managing Psoriatic Arthritis with Multiple Doctors
Arthritis Diet
Anti-Inflammatory
Anti-Inflammatory Diet
Eat Right for Your Type of Arthritis
More Fiber, Less Inflammation?
Arthritis Food Myths
The Connection Between Gluten And Arthritis
The Ultimate Arthritis Diet
Can Vegan or Vegetarian Diets Help Reduce Arthritis Inflammation?
Rheumatoid Arthritis Diet
Best Foods
12 Best Foods For Arthritis
Best Beverages for Arthritis
Best Fruits for Arthritis
Best Vegetables for Arthritis
Best Fish for Arthritis
Best Grains for Arthritis
Best Nuts and Seeds for Arthritis
Best Spices for Arthritis
Best Oils for Arthritis
Surprisingly Healthy Foods
Foods to Limit
8 Food Ingredients That Can Cause Inflammation
Fats and Oils to Avoid
How to Eat Less Salt
Slash Sugar
Alcohol Is Best in Moderation
Healthy Eating
Arthritis Diet IQ Quiz
Dairy: Arthritis Friend or Foe?
Organic Food and Your Health
Benefits of Probiotics
How to Quickly Read a Nutrition Label
Need Nutrition Help?
Shopping for Arthritis-Friendly Foods
Cooking with Arthritis
Losing Weight
8 Ways to Lose Weight Without Dieting
Benefits of Weight Loss
Beyond the Bathroom Scale
How to Wisely Choose a Weight-Loss Program
A Look at What's In Weight-Loss Supplements
Recipes
Tasty Dishes with Extra Health A-peel
Holiday Feast Recipes
Cocoa Recipes: How Sweet It Is
Healthy Options for a Cookout
Fast, Healthy Black Bean Recipes
Breakfast Egg Recipes
Three Healthy High-Protein Dip Recipes
Five Simple Brown Rice Recipes
Food Duos
How to Boost the Flavor of Frozen Vegetables
Bean Recipes
Easy Appetizer Recipes
8 Low-Sodium Recipes
Three Delicious Pasta Alternatives
Arthritis-Friendly Recipes from Sandra Lee
Chef Seamus Mullen Tapas Recipes
Sensational Seed Recipes
Spinach Salad with Strawberry–Poppy Seed Vinaigrette
Exercise
Benefits
Exercise Good for OA
Exercise May Delay Hip Surgery
Exercising With Osteoarthritis
How-to
Weight Training 101
Stretching Benefits
Working Out Through Pain
Workout Tips
Exercise: How Much Is Enough?
Lower Body: Dos and Don'ts
Workout Intensity
Developing a Well-rounded Workout
Starting an Exercise Program
High-intensity Exercise and RA
Upper Body: Dos and Don'ts
Top 11 Workout Mistakes to Avoid
Staying Fit with Arthritis
Success
11 Common Exercise Hurdles to Overcome
Choosing Exercise Equipment
Fitness Gadgets and Trackers
Picking the Perfect Gym
Exercise Excuses
Exercise Barriers
Seven Mental Tricks to Get You Moving with Arthritis
Videos
2-Minute
Core
Stretches
Upper Body
Lower Body
Weight-bearing
Tai Chi
Workouts
Simple Routines
Walking
Yoga
Other Activities
Arthritis Friendly
Aerobics Dance Step
Aquatics
Biking
Body Weight Exercises
Elliptical
Exercise Ball
Free Weights
Golf
Lap Swimming
Martial Arts
Pilates
Resistance Bands
Rowing
Running
Stair Stepper
Stationary Bike
Tai Chi
Treadmill
Walking
Weight Machines
Yoga
Hiking
Tennis
Coping with Change
Relationships
To Tell or Not to Tell You Have Arthritis
What To Do When Your Friends and Spouse Are Healthy – And You're Not
5 Tips for Managing Chronic Illness in a Marriage
Improve Communication With Your Spouse
A Healthy Marriage Is Good Medicine
Dating with Arthritis
How to Tell People You Have Arthritis
Telling a New Partner About Your Arthritis
Caregiving
Parenting With Arthritis
Solutions for Nine Common Caregiving Challenges
Guidelines for Children Who are Caregivers
How to Hire the Right Caregiver
Work
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Relief
Flexible Work Arrangements
Finding a Job and Working With Arthritis
Ergonomic Workplace Tips
Workplace Rights
Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Workplace
Psoriatic Arthritis in the Workplace
Pregnancy Family
Immune-suppressing Drugs May Not Harm Fetuses
Pregnancy Prognosis
Tips for Coping With Pregnancy and Arthritis
Ankylosing Spondylitis and Pregnancy
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Pregnancy
Scleroderma and Pregnancy
Sjögren's Syndrome and Pregnancy
Arthritis Medications in Pregnancy
Parenting with Arthritis
Taking Control
Arthritis and Emotions
Arthritis and Grief
Your Role as a Patient: What You Can Do
RA and Your Body Image
How to Build Resilience and Bounce Back Into Life
Reclaim Your Passion
Change Your Busy Ways
9 Tips for Better Mornings with Arthritis
Comorbidities
Depression
The Arthritis-Depression Connection
Treating Depression and Anxiety in Arthritis
Stress and RA
11 Drug-free Ways to Feel Better
Antidepressants: OK for RA?
Diabetes
RA vs. OA & Diabetes
Disease-Modifying Drugs May Lower Diabetes Risk
Rheumatoid Arthritis Appears to Increase Diabetes Risk
Heart Disease
OA May Raise Heart Disease Risk
RA and Your Heart
Obesity
How Fat Affects Arthritis
Osteoarthritis and Obesity
How Fat Affects Rheumatoid Arthritis
Sleep / Insomnia
Sleep Tips for Arthritis
OA Could Disrupt Your Sleep
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Sleep
Eye Conditions
Arthritis-related Eye Conditions
With Arthritis, Dry Eye Is More Than a Nuisance
Hearing Loss
Hearing Loss Linked to RA
Mouth Conditions
Treat Gum Disease to Relieve RA Pain and Stiffness
Rheumatoid Arthritis and Gum Disease
Mouth and Other Bacteria May Trigger RA
Dry Mouth: A Greater Risk When You Have Arthritis
Kidney Disease
RA and Your Kidneys: What You Need to Know
Skin Conditions
Pain Management
Pain Awareness Month Quiz
Understanding
What Causes Pain
Sources of Arthritis Pain
Factors that Affect Arthritis Pain
The Emotion–Pain Connection
Talking About Pain
Chronic Pain
Understanding Chronic Pain
Understanding Centralized Pain
Tips for Managing Chronic Pain
Chronic Pain Management: Expert Perspective
Is a Pain Clinic Right for You?
Sleep and Pain
Fatigue
Fatigue Often Comes Along With Arthritis Pain
How To Beat Fatigue
What It Really Means to “Pace Yourself”
Joint Protection
Fall-prevention Guidelines
16 Joint -protection Tips
Being Good to Your Joints
Self-help Arthritis Devices
How to Choose the Right Cane
How to Climb Stairs With a Cane
How to Avoid Back Injury
How to Pick Up Your Grandkids
How to Squat Correctly
Prevent Pain With Shoe Inserts
When Knees Need Support
Finger Joint Support
Osteoarthritis and Falls
Flares
What Triggers an Arthritis Flare?
Understanding RA Flares
Coping With a Rheumatoid Arthritis Flare
Arthritis Flares
Tips for Managing an Arthritis Flare
Tips
8 Tips for Pain-free Travel
Fight Pain Without Pills
Warm Water Works Wonders on Pain
Hypnosis for Arthritis Pain
25 Treatments for Arthritis Hip and Knee Pain
Warming Techniques for RA Pain
Nerve Treatments for Arthritis Pain
Catastrophizing Can Worsen Arthritis Pain
Tools Resources
Ease of Use
Health and Wellness
Home and Hobbies
Work
Product Search
Product Test
Product Selection
Glossary
Expert Q A
Ankylosing Spondylitis Questions
Fibromyalgia Questions
General Arthritis Questions
Gout Questions
Lupus Questions
Medication Questions
Osteoarthritis Questions
Psoriatic Arthritis Questions
Rheumatoid Arthritis Questions
Sjogrens Syndrome Questions
Walk With Ease
About the Program
Resources
Online Tool
Body Mass Index Calculator
Track and React
Peek Inside
Web Tool
App
Weather
Brochures & DVDs
Online Arthritis Panel
Reader Panel
Your Exercise Solution
Lab Test Guide
Multibiomarker Disease Activity Test
Helpline
Find a Local Office
Stay Informed
Get the latest arthritis information
Sign Up for E-Newsletters
Advertisement
Home > Living With Arthritis > Pain Management > Tips > 25 Treatments for Arthritis Hip and Knee Pain
25 Treatments for Hip and Knee Arthritis Pain
Guidelines recommend combining drugs with non-medicinal remedies.
Advertisement
Visit the Breaking the Arthritis Pain Chain Toolkit
Advertisement
#
When it comes to treating osteoarthritis (OA) in your knees and hips, you may have more options than you realize. In March 2014, the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI), a nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting osteoarthritis research and treatment, updated its recommendations for the treatment of osteoarthritis targeted to different patient characteristics. A group of 13 experts from around the world reviewed the latest research on OA treatments as the framework for the revised guidelines. OARSI published its first guidelines in 2008.
The four groups of patients identified in the new guidelines are:
Patients with OA in one or both knees only and no co-existing conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, kidney failure, GI bleeding, depression or obesity.
Patients with knee-only OA who have co-existing conditions
Patients with multi-joint OA (hip, hand, etc.) and no co-existing conditions
Patients with multi-joint OA who have co-existing conditions
Non-Drug Treatments
Education and self-management. Many organizations, including the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS), recommend patients learn all they can about their arthritis and its treatment. However, one study found that a self-management course did little to improve pain, stiffness or physical function. Researchers have suggested that group educational sessions and telephone-based advice might be helpful, but another study questioned the practicality of these interventions.
Exercise. A variety of exercises, such as strength training, aerobics, range of motion and tai chi, can help with both pain and physical function in knee OA. Strengthening can also help with hip OA pain. Water-based exercises may improve function in both knee and hip joints, but offer only minor benefits for pain.
Weight loss. A 2007 review found reductions in pain and disability in previously overweight patients with knee OA who lost a moderate amount of weight. The recommendation is to aim for a weight loss of 5% within a 20-week period for the treatment to be effective. The benefits of weight loss on hip OA have yet to be proven.
Acupuncture. A form of traditional Chinese medicine involving the insertion of thin, sharp needles at specific points on the body, acupuncture has been touted as a treatment for osteoarthritis pain. A recent analysis of 16 randomized controlled trials found acupuncture was better than sham treatment for relieving OA pain. However, the effect didn’t reach the threshold for clinical significance. The recommendation is “uncertain.”
Balneotherapy. The new guidelines for the first time evaluated the use of balneotherapy, a treatment that involves soaking in warm mineral springs. It was found to be an “appropriate” therapy for people with multi-joint OA and co-existing conditions, who have few other treatment options.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). A technique in which a weak electric current is administered through electrodes placed on the skin, TENS is believed to stop messages from pain receptors from reaching the brain. A recent study found that TENS didn’t relieve pain better than a sham procedure. While it’s uncertain whether TENS can help with knee-only OA, it’s not appropriate for OA in multiple joints.
Knee braces, sleeves, and other devices.One review found knee braces and foot orthoses helpful for reducing pain and joint stiffness and improving function in knee OA, without causing any adverse side effects. The new guidelines recommend using these assistive devices as directed by a specialist.
Canes and crutches. Using a cane may reduce pain and improve function in people with knee OA. However, while it takes the load off the knee, it can add more weight onto other affected joints, such as the hip. There isn’t any evidence that crutches are a good alternative to the cane.
Medications
Acetaminophen (Tylenol). Several guidelines recommend acetaminophen as a first-line treatment of mild-to-moderate pain from knee and hip OA. However, because of concerns about risks such as ulcers, GI bleeding, and loss of kidney function in long-term users, current guidelines recommend limiting the dose and treatment time. For people with existing medical conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, GI bleeding or kidney failure, the recommendation on acetaminophen is “uncertain.” (According to the committee, an “uncertain” recommendation doesn’t mean you should necessarily avoid the treatment; only that you should discuss it with your doctor and only use it when appropriate for you.)
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These medications (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen sodium) are another option for pain relief. However, the risk of GI side effects such as ulcers and bleeding is also higher with NSAIDs than with acetaminophen. NSAIDs are also associated with cardiovascular risk and kidney damage. The panel recommends “conservative dosing and treatment duration consistent with approved prescribing limits.” In people at moderate to high risk of GI side effects, the committee recommends adding a stomach-protective drug called a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) while taking NSAIDs. However, people at high risk for side effects like cardiovascular disease or GI bleeding are advised to avoid using NSAIDs entirely.
Topical NSAIDs. These rub-on products may be as effective as oral NSAIDs, but they pose less risk of GI problems. And though topical NSAIDs can cause skin irritation, they’re considered a safer option than oral drugs. Topical NSAIDs are recommended for people with knee-only OA. For those with OA in other joints, the recommendation is “uncertain.”
Diacerein. This slow acting drug may slow cartilage breakdown in people with OA. A 2010 analysis found a small benefit for pain relief compared to placebo, but the drug also increased the risk for diarrhea. Though diacerein may be safer than NSAIDs, more high-quality studies are needed to confirm its effectiveness. For now, the recommendation is “uncertain.”
Duloxetine (Cymbalta). This antidepressant, which was evaluated for OA for the first time in these guidelines, may help with chronic pain. However, side effects like nausea, dry mouth, fatigue, constipation, and increased sweating may keep some people from taking it. Duloxetine is appropriate for people with OA of the knee and other joints. Whether people with knee-only OA and coexisting health conditions should take it is uncertain.
Capsaicin. This analgesic, which is derived from chili peppers, is better than placebo at reducing pain, but it can cause side effects such as a burning sensation or skin redness. It’s appropriate for knee-only OA in people without existing health conditions, but uncertain in people with multi-joint OA and those with health conditions.
Opioid and narcotic analgesics. A review of 18 randomized controlled trials showed a significant reduction in pain, and some improvement in physical function with the use of these strong pain relievers. However, these benefits were countered by significant side effects, including nausea, constipation, dizziness, sleepiness, and vomiting. Overall, about a quarter of patients treated with opioids—and particularly with strong drugs like oxycodone and oxymorphone—dropped out of studies because of side effects. The recommendation on both oral and patch forms of opioid pain relievers is “uncertain.”
Corticosteroid injections. Injecting corticosteroid compounds directly into affected joints can be useful for decreasing pain in the short term, although the effect tends to wear off after a few weeks. To maintain relief, you may need to have corticosteroid injections in the same joint every few months, or use another treatment.
Hyaluronic acid injections. Hyaluronic acid is meant to supplement a natural substance that gives joint fluid its viscosity. Most of the studies conducted have been in patients with knee OA. Although the study outcomes differ, some do find the treatment relieves pain. Hyaluronic acid injections seem to reach their peak benefit 8 weeks after the shot is given, and the effect lasts for about 24 weeks. Side effects were minimal, including temporary pain and swelling at the injection site. Because of inconsistent study results, hyaluronic acid injections are “not appropriate” for people with OA of the hip and other joints, and “uncertain” for those with knee-only OA.
Risedronate (Actonel). This bisphosphonate drug is better known for treating osteoporosis, but it may also reduce cartilage degeneration. More studies are needed to determine whether risedronate helps with symptoms, function, or OA disease progression. For now, the drug is deemed “not appropriate.”
Supplements
Avocado soybean unsaponfiables. This extract made from avocado and soybean oils blocks pro-inflammatory chemicals and may help regenerate normal connective tissue. A 2008 review comparing this supplement with a placebo found it had a small benefit in reducing pain, particularly in people with knee OA. The recommendation is “uncertain.”
Surgery
Joint lavage and arthroscopic debridement. The roles of joint lavage (flushing the joint with a sterile saline solution) and arthroscopic debridement (the surgical removal of tissue fragments from the joint) are controversial. Some studies have shown that they provide short-term relief; however, a 2008 Cochrane review suggested that in people with OA, arthroscopic debridement probably does not improve pain or ability to function compared to placebo (sham surgery).
Osteotomy and joint-preserving surgery. For young, active people with hip or knee osteoarthritis, osteotomy (a procedure in which bones are cut and realigned to improve joint alignment) may delay the need for joint replacement. A 2007 Cochrane review that included 13 studies found some evidence that high tibial osteotomy for knee OA helped reduce pain and improve function. An earlier study found the average time between this procedure and joint replacement surgery was six years.
Unicompartmental knee replacement. Approximately 30 percent of people with knee osteoarthritis have disease that is largely restricted to one area of the joint. In these cases, unicompartmental knee replacement (also called partial knee replacement) may offer the same improvement and function as total knee replacement but with less trauma and better range of motion. A 2007 review that compared unicompartmental knee replacement with total knee replacement found a similar improvement in function, but fewer complications and less need for revision surgery after unicompartmental surgery.
Popular Options Not Included in Updated Guidelines
Glucosamine. Some studies show glucosamine improves pain and physical function in OA, while others don’t find a benefit. Whether this supplement changes the joint structure remains controversial. Some studies have showed a slowing of joint space narrowing in the knee. Others haven’t shown this effect. The new treatment guidelines find glucosamine is “not appropriate” for disease modification, and “uncertain” for symptom relief.
Chondroitin sulfate. Chondroitin has also shown some effectiveness at reducing pain, but not all studies have yielded the same results, and many studies have been of poor quality. In some research, chondroitin has shown an effect on joint space narrowing compared to placebo. Because of the mixed results, the recommendation is that chondroitin is “not appropriate” for disease modification, and “uncertain” for symptom relief.
Advertisement
About Arthritis
Understanding Arthritis
Types of Arthritis
Where It Hurts
Living With Arthritis
Tools & Resources
Treatment Options
Pain Management
Arthritis Diet
Exercise
Comorbidities
Your Health Care
Life Stages
Fighting For You
Advocacy
Path to a Cure
Get Involved
Walk to Cure Arthritis
Jingle Bell Run
Juvenile Arthritis Conference
Bone Bash
Dinners & Galas
Bike Events
Volunteer
About Us
Mission & Vision
Leadership
News
Partners & Sponsors
Careers
Code of Ethics
Financials
Annual Report
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Donate
Press
Store
Blog
Community
Local Offices
Kids Get Arthritis Too
Español
Arthritis Today
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Stay in TouchJoin Our Mailing List
Arthritis Foundation National Office1355 Peachtree St NE
Suite 600
Atlanta,GA 30309
Home Office
404.872.7100
Helpline 1.844.571.4357
Customer Service
800.283.7800
Arthritis Foundation is a qualified 501(c)(3)
EIN 58-1341679
Advertisement
close
close