Is Your Osteoarthritis Treatment Working?
Newsletter
Is Your Osteoarthritis Treatment Working?
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD on May 29, 2018 — Written by Samuel Greengard
Confirm osteoarthritis diagnosis
Self-treatment
Medications
Injections
Physical therapy
Surgery
When to seek help
Overview of osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis (OA) is caused by wear and tear on your joints and can be painful and frustrating. It typically occurs in your:
knees
hips
lower back
neck
shoulders
OA causes the cartilage that pads the bones in your joints to deteriorate. It’s common to have decreased mobility as a result.
About 27 million Americans have OA. It’s the most common type of arthritis. Arthritis is the of work-related disability in the United States.
It’s important to find the right approach to manage and treat your OA so it doesn’t worsen over time.
Dr. Nels Carlson, an associate professor in the department of orthopedics and rehabilitation at Oregon Health Sciences University, suggests taking this six-step approach:
Step 1: Verify that your condition is osteoarthritis
Symptoms of OA include:
joint swelling
stiffness
pain
decreased range of motion in your joint
Many people with OA experience pain first thing in the morning. It can often last for a few hours or more.
Visit an OA specialist for a physical exam if you think you have OA. Your doctor may also recommend an X-ray or an MRI. Other conditions that can have similar symptoms to OA include:
rheumatoid arthritis
immune system disorder
injuries
Step 2: Attempt weight loss, exercise, and self-treatment
Carlson believes it’s best for most people with OA to start with a conservative treatment approach. “Lifestyle changes are key,” he says. These include:
Losing weight
This reduces the stress on your joints, particularly in your knees.
Exercising
Aquatics and other low impact forms of exercise are ideal. You may require cold and hot compresses after exercise or to manage inflammation.
Wearing a splint, shoe insert, or brace
“It can unload the arthritic component of an affected area,” Carlson notes. But if you wear one of these and you’re still unable to control inflammation and pain, you may need to take medication.
Step 3: Rely on medication as needed
Many people with OA find that over-the-counter (OTC) medications like acetaminophen (Tylenol) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can help reduce joint pain, stiffness, and swelling. Ibuprofen (Advil), naproxen (Aleve), and aspirin are all NSAIDs.
However, Carlson warns around-the-clock use of these medications can cause other problems, such as gastrointestinal distress and stomach ulcers.
If these medications don’t help, you have severe pain, or you can’t tolerate OTC remedies, your doctor might recommend prescription medications, such as opioids.
Dietary supplements like glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate may help. Studies are mixed about how effective these supplements are, but Carlson says there’s no harm in trying them.
Step 4: Consider injections
Your doctor may suggest an injection of hyaluronic acid if there’s little or no improvement from using a brace or taking OTC medications. Hyaluronic acid is only approved for use on knees.
Your doctor may also suggest corticosteroids. Corticosteroids don’t eliminate pain directly but can reduce inflammation and swelling. However, cortisone injections could result in side effects like:
soreness
sweating
insomnia
temporary rise in blood sugar in people with diabetes
temporary rise in heart rate
flushing of the skin on your palms or face
Long-term side effects can include:
weight gain
osteoporosis
facial swelling
cataracts
rise in blood pressure
Step 5: Consider physical therapy
A physical therapist can provide treatments and exercises like stretching and strengthening that help alleviate the inflammation and pain associated with OA, Carlson notes. You could also visit an experienced massage therapist who can focus on problem areas.
Step 6: Undergo surgery
If other treatment options haven’t worked, you may need a joint replacement or surgery to resurface or realign your ankle or knee, Carlson points out. In people with advanced osteoarthritis, these procedures are usually effective. But there’s no guarantee they’ll eliminate the inflammation and pain. “The recovery time can stretch into months. There’s usually a lot of work with a physical therapist, and it won’t be pain free,” Carlson explains.
Postoperative rehab typically involves range-of-motion exercises and strengthening techniques. “The goal is to get a person back to his or her usual routine.” Your doctor might also prescribe medication to help you manage pain, including opioids.
Talk with your doctor
There’s no one-size-fits-all approach to managing and treating OA. Carlson emphasizes the need to keep weight down, keep muscles strong, and improve range of motion.
“It’s important to discuss various options and treatments with your doctor, and understand the pros and cons before making any decision,” he says. “You must be comfortable with the game plan and know that it’s right for you.”
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD on May 29, 2018 — Written by Samuel Greengard
related stories
Everything You Need to Know About Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis Treatments
6 Foods to Avoid If You Have Osteoarthritis
5 Exercises to Tackle OA Inflammation and Pain
The Best Osteoarthritis Apps of the Year
READ THIS NEXT
Everything You Need to Know About Osteoarthritis
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
If you live with osteoarthritis, you know it's a complex condition with a broad range of treatments and risk factors. Here's a detailed, top-to-bottom…
READ MORE
Osteoarthritis Treatments
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Osteoarthritis treatment includes physical therapy, steroid injections & thermotherapy. Patients with advanced OA may require joint replacement…
READ MORE
6 Foods to Avoid If You Have Osteoarthritis
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo, LDN, RD
Osteoarthritis is a condition in which the cushion of cartilage between your joints breaks down and wears away. You can avoid flareups of…
READ MORE
5 Exercises to Tackle OA Inflammation and Pain
Exercise and physical activity can augment your existing osteoarthritis treatment plan, so try adding these five exercises to counteract your symptoms.
READ MORE
The Best Osteoarthritis Apps of the Year
Do you want to thrive with your osteoarthritis? These are the best apps - whether you need help with symptoms, or with your daily exercise routine.
READ MORE
Treatment Options for Delaying Knee Surgery
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
There's no cure for osteoarthritis (OA) yet, but there are several options that can relieve your symptoms. If you have OA of the knee, we'll explain…
READ MORE
Easy Exercises for Knee Arthritis
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Exercising an arthritic knee can be a great way to relieve your pain and discomfort. Learn about easy exercises you can do at home. We'll show you…
READ MORE
Why Do My Shoulders Click, Pop, Grind, and Crack?
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
Shoulder popping, also known as crepitus, has several possible causes. Find out why it is sometimes accompanied by pain while other times it's not, as…
READ MORE
Stages of Osteoarthritis of the Knee
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Osteoarthritis (OA) is divided into five stages, spanning a normal and healthy knee to one that's severely damaged. Symptoms become worse at later…
READ MORE
Understanding Cartilage, Joints, and the Aging Process
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Cartilage cushions joints and helps them work smoothly. But degeneration of cartilage from a lifetime of moving can lead to osteoarthritis (OA). Learn…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 6263 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582