Benefits of Vitamin E Cream
Benefits of Vitamin E Cream
Aastha Dogra Oct 13, 2018
Tap to Read ➤
Vitamin E cream moisturizes the skin, diminishes fine lines, scars and age spots, and keeps the skin looking young for a long time. Read on to know the advantages of using vitamin E cream for skin.
A major part of looking good depends upon the health of our skin. A fresh, clear, and glowing skin can make any man or woman stand out from the rest. For a person who desires a good complexion, it is very important to take care what to eat as well as what to apply on the skin.
Following a healthy balanced diet, drinking two to three liters of water everyday, and leading a relaxed and stress-free life will keep the skin healthy from within. As for improving the texture of the skin, application of the right cosmetics and creams is recommended.
Speaking of skin creams, the ones that have vitamin E in them are proposed by most beauty experts as being the best for the skin. The reason behind this is that this vitamin is an antioxidant and a skin hydrant which rejuvenates the skin cells.
Researches have shown that it assists in repairing the damaged skin cells, thus aiding in replacing the old and damaged skin with new skin. Scroll down to know some more vitamin E cream benefits.
Good Moisturizer
Vitamin E cream works as a great moisturizer for all kinds of skin. If applied everyday, it gives a glow to the skin and improves the overall complexion. So, people with dull or dry skins can improve their skin texture and appearance by regular application of a cream containing this vitamin.
Protection from Sun
It protects the skin from the ultraviolet rays of the sun. If, along with its application, foods such as almonds, papaya, sunflower seeds, etc., that are rich in vitamin E are consumed, it can prove to be even more effective.
Vitamin E cream is known to reduce irritation, swelling, redness, and peeling that may result from sun burns.
Reduces Acne and Acne Scars
It reduces acne, as well as the scars on face which are left behind by acne. Application of Vitamin E cream on the skin regulates the amount of Vitamin A in the body.
When Vitamin A levels are controlled, it has a very positive effect on the health of the skin, promoting healing as well as a soothing effect at the same time. For better results, along with the application of the cream, the diet should be supplemented with vitamin E rich foods too.
Diminishes Stretch Marks
Application of this cream on the skin accelerates the healing process of the skin, whereby the old skin with marks is replaced by new, healthy, and clear skin.
Vitamin E breaks the elastin and collagen, which are chiefly responsible for causing stretch marks.To get rid of stretch marks, along with the application of vitamin E, vitamin C-rich creams should be applied on the affected skin. This helps in fading the stretch marks, thus reducing their appearance considerably.
Reduces Fine Lines
Another benefit is that this vitamin has anti-aging properties. Application of this cream is known to diminish the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles, which start developing as a person grows old. When choosing a vitamin E cream, if you want it to be really effective, make sure that its vitamin E content is not lesser than 1%.
As you can see, there are numerous benefits of applying vitamin E skin cream. This cream is easily absorbed by the pores and starts working on the skin within no time, thus reducing inflammations, irritations, discolorations, scars, marks, fine lines, spots, and wrinkles.
So, if you want to have a younger-looking healthy skin, include application of vitamin E skin cream in your daily beauty regimen!
Caution: Prior to applying this skin cream, it is advised to do a patch test as it can cause irritation in people who have extremely sensitive skin. Scented creams are especially known to adversely affect some types of skin.
Another thing to keep in mind is that the effects of this cream take some time to show on the skin. So, do not expect quick results and keep applying the cream for at least a month, as this much time is needed before you actually see any visible changes.
Write for us
Close
BeautiSecrets
Home Home
Become a Contributor Become a Contributor