Prescription Scar Cream | Pharmacogenetics, Prescription Creams, Bracing, Vitamins
Call (888) 885-2929
Home
About
Services
Pharmacogenetics
Prescription Bracing
Prescription Pain Cream
Prescription Pain Patches
Prescription Scar Cream
Prescription Vitamins
Contact
FAQ Prescription Scar Creams
What are scars?
The skin provides protection by covering the entire body. However, the skin can be injured, causing breaks in the skin. During the normal process of healing, breaks in the skin are replaced by areas of fibrosis (fibrous tissue) known as scars. Most lesions will result in one form of scarring or the other.
Scars can result from all kinds of lesions to the skin, including after accidents, disease, or surgical operations.[1] Scar tissue is formed from collagen, which is the same tissue that it replaces. However, unlike the basketweave formation found in normal skin, scar tissue forms cross-links aligned in one direction.[2]
The unidirectional arrangement of scar tissue is weaker than the randomized alignment of normal collagen. There is less resistance to shearing forces, ultraviolet radiation, and other external stressors. Hair follicles and sweat glands may also not grow back in scar tissue formation.
What are the different kinds of scars?
While all scars are formed from the same collagen as the tissue it replaces, they can differ in the amounts of collagen that is produced. The degree of collagen replacement and the structural formation of the scar will determine its type. Among the most common scar types include:
Hypertrophic scars refer to scars that are raised above the normal skin, often taking the form of a raised reddish lump along the skin. This occurs due to the
Acne Scarring
overproduction of collagen by the skin. Hypertrophic scars occur following wound infection or wound closure with excessive tension, and can appear within one to two months.
Keloid scars are a more severe form of hypertrophic scarring. They occur randomly, and can be distinguished by their growth outside the original wound area. Keloids are masses of collagen that have the potential to grow indefinitely into benign, albeit large, neoplasms. These commonly form on the shoulders and chest, and can be itchy or painful for some individuals.
Atrophic scars have a sunken, or pitted appearance due to the loss of underlying support structures of the skin. This is typically associated with diseases such as skin infections, surgery, or accidents.
Striae (stretch mark) formation is caused when there is excessive tension on the skin caused by rapid expansion. This typically occurs during weight gain, the adolescent growth spurt, or during pregnancy (striae gravidae). Stretch marks have been known to improve in appearance over time.
What are the treatments available for scars?
While there are no prescription drugs available for the treatment of scars, there are numerous treatments that have been available, including prescription scar creams. These include laser treatment, low-dose radiotherapy, collagen induction therapy, chemical peels, steroid injections, dermoabrasion, and filler injections.
However, these therapeutic modalities can be expensive and not cost-effective for most people. Another form of treatment for scars that is more affordable for most people is the use of prescription scar creams.
How do prescription scar creams work?
There are numerous scar cream formulations available, each with its own formulation of active ingredients. Topical scar creams improve the appearance of scars with continuous use, which can typically last for more than eight weeks of regular application. Some active ingredients included in prescription scar creams include:
Vitamin E is a known antioxidant that is commonly used in scar creams. It is believed that Vitamin E can reduce the inflammation, and can also help in the reduction of scar tissue by keeping the skin hydrated. However, recent research has shown that Vitamin E is ineffective in reducing scar tissue, and can cause complications, such as dermatitis, in some cases.[3]
Silicone gel has been studied for over 30 years, and some studies have shown that it can speed healing, leading to reduction in the thickness, redness, and pain with scars. The exact mechanism of action of silicon gel in the reduction of scar formation is unknown, although it is theorized that silicon keeps the skin from drying out. One example of a scar cream that uses silicone gel is Kelo-cote, which has been shown to be effective in treating scars.
Extractum cepae has been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties, and prevents the formation of excessive scar tissue. Contractubex is an effective formulation that contains extractum cepae, as well as heparin and allantoin.[4]
Heparin has been shown to soften the tissue structure of the scar, aside from displaying anti-inflammatory and anti-swelling properties. The use of heparin can also promote tissue regeneration and hydration of the skin tissue.
Allatoin also softens the skin, and encourages wound healing. This has been shown to relieve itching that is associated with scar formation.
What are the things to keep in mind when using scar cream?
Read and follow the instructions included in the product insert. Each formulation has its own application regimen and recommended duration of
Always wash hands after cream application.
treatment. Application can be done from twice to four times daily, and can last for up to eight weeks or more before visible results are seen.
Never apply scar cream to wounded skin. Topical creams should never be applied to open wounds, as substances in the cream can cause irritation.
Avoid creams that contain known allergens. If there is known allergy to any of the components of the scar cream, use should be avoided.
Superior Medical Solutions offers prescription scar cream for all types of scars. Studies have shown that custom compounded scar creams can reduce scar height and discoloration by over 80%.
Call Superior Medical Solutions today at (888) 885-2929 today!
[1] Quinn KP et al. “An automated image processing method to quantify collagen fiber organization within cutaneous scar tissue.” Exp Dermatol. 2014 Sep 26. doi: 10.1111/exd.12553. [Epub ahead of print]
[2] Kelf TA, Gosnell M, Sandnes B, Guller AE, Shekhter AB, Zvyagin AV. “Scar tissue classification using nonlinear optical microscopy and discriminant analysis”. J Biophotonics. 2012 Feb;5(2):159-67. doi: 10.1002/jbio.201100075. Epub 2011 Nov 21.
[3] Shih R, Waltzman J, Evans GR (March 2007). “Review of over-the-counter topical scar treatment products”. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery 119 (3): 1091–5. doi:10.1097/01.prs.0000255814.75012.35. PMID 17312518
[4] Ko WJ1, Na YC, Suh BS, Kim HA, Heo WH, Choi GH, Lee SU. “The effects of topical agent (kelo-cote or contractubex) massage on the thickness of post-burn scar tissue formed in rats.” Arch Plast Surg. 2013 Nov;40(6):697-704. doi: 10.5999/aps.2013.40.6.697. Epub 2013 Nov 8.
Search for:
Contact Us Today for Assistance in Obtaining your Pharmacogenetic Testing along with Prescription Bracing, Creams, Patches and Vitamins!
First Name *
Last Name *
Phone *
Zip Code *
Email (we never spam)
Patient or Provider? Please select onePatientProvider
Comments
Enter the above code:
Contact Us Today for Assistance in Obtaining your Pharmacogenetic Testing along with Prescription Bracing, Creams, Patches and Vitamins!
Click or Call (888) 885-2929
Pages
Home
About
Services
Pharmacogenetics
Prescription Scar Cream
Prescription Pain Cream
Prescription Bracing
Prescription Pain Patches
Prescription Vitamins
Contact
Location
21001 N Tatum Boulevard
Suite 1630
Phoenix, AZ 85050
Phone: (888) 885-2929
Fax: (888) 892-1831
E-Mail: info@superiormedicalsolutions.com
© 2014 Superior Medical Solutions. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy