8 health benefits of Greek yogurt
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Is Greek yogurt good for you?
Last reviewed	 Tue 25 September 2018	 Last reviewed	Tue 25 Sep 2018
By Lana Burgess
Reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Table of contents
8 health benefits of Greek yogurt
How to eat Greek yogurt
Summary
Greek yogurt differs from other yogurts because it goes through a straining process to remove the whey. Whey is a liquid that contains lactose, a natural sugar found in milk. Greek yogurt is a popular dairy product, but is it good for you?
Making yogurt involves fermenting milk with live cultures of beneficial bacteria.
Strained Greek yogurt is lower in sugar than regular yogurt. Removing the whey produces a thicker, creamier yogurt with a tart taste.
Some manufacturers add thickening agents to regular yogurt, and market it as "Greek-style" yogurt, which may not share the same health benefits as Greek yogurt.
Also, low or no-fat Greek yogurt may not share the same health benefits as traditional Greek yogurt.
In this article, learn about eight potential health benefits of Greek yogurt, as well as how to incorporate it into a balanced diet.
8 health benefits of Greek yogurt
Greek yogurt may benefit bone health.
Eating Greek yogurt may be good for health thanks to the nutrients it contains, including:
calcium
protein
probiotics
iodine
vitamin B-12
The potential health benefits of Greek yogurt include:
1. Improving bone health
Eating Greek yogurt may improve bone health, as it is rich in calcium and protein.
Calcium promotes bone health and can reduce the risk of osteoporosis, a degenerative bone disease. Consuming enough protein is also vital for bone health.
2. Reducing appetite and hunger
Greek yogurt is protein-rich, so it may help people feel fuller for longer. Research suggests that people may eat less throughout the day after a meal that is high in protein.
A further study found that increasing dietary protein lead people to consume fewer calories overall, which contributed to greater weight loss.
3. Boosting metabolism
Research suggests that eating a high-protein diet may increase the number of calories a person burns per day. It is best to include some protein with every meal.
Despite its protein content, eating Greek yogurt alone is unlikely to make a person burn more calories.
But eating Greek yogurt, as part of a balanced diet that includes enough protein, fibrous carbohydrates, and healthful fats may aid weight loss and boost metabolism.
4. Improving gut health
Greek yogurt is a source of probiotics that support gut health.
Greek yogurt contains probiotics. These are good bacteria that may restore a healthy bacterial balance within the gut.
But recent research raises questions about these benefits. It is possible that not everyone responds to probiotics in the same way.
A 2018 study suggests that some people's guts are resistant to the benefits of probiotics while others are more receptive.
5. Encouraging good mental health
Research suggests that consuming probiotic yogurt is beneficial for a person's mental health.
A 2016 study found that workers who ate 100 grams of probiotic yogurt a day or took a daily probiotic capsule experienced less stress, depression, and anxiety than those who did not.
This effect is likely due to the relationship between the gut and brain, and the ability of the gut to make neurotransmitters, such as serotonin and dopamine.
6. Building muscle mass
Protein-rich foods, such as Greek yogurt, may help build muscle mass. Research shows that a high-protein diet may increase muscle mass in people doing resistance training.
7. Lowering blood pressure
Greek yogurt is a form of probiotic fermented milk that may lower blood pressure.
A 2013 meta-analysis of 14 studies, involving more than 700 participants, found that fermented milk with probiotics helped reduce blood pressure.
However, research is not conclusive. Another study from 2015, involving 156 overweight participants, found that eating probiotic yogurt did not affect blood pressure and other cardiovascular risks.
8. Reducing the risk of type 2 diabetes
Greek yogurt may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes, a condition that affects how the body processes blood sugar.
Researchers linked eating more yogurt, although not other dairy products, to a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes, according to a 2014 study.
How to eat Greek yogurt
Greek yogurt is an excellent topping for chili.
There are many ways to enjoy Greek yogurt, including:
as a breakfast or dessert bowl with banana and blueberries
as a topping for chili instead of sour cream
as a topping for soups instead of cream
as a spread on crackers or bread instead of butter
as an addition to a pasta sauce for extra creaminess
Summary
Strained Greek yogurt made in a traditional way may be beneficial for a person's health.
Many of the potential health benefits of Greek yogurt relate to its high protein content. A protein-rich diet may help reduce hunger, boost metabolism, and build muscle.
Greek yogurt is an excellent source of calcium, which can help improve bone health. It also contains probiotics, which support a healthy bacterial balance in the gut.
Eating Greek yogurt may be associated with lower blood pressure and a lower risk of type 2 diabetes.
People can enjoy Greek yogurt as part of a healthful, balanced diet.
Related coverage
Calcium: Health benefits, foods, and deficiency Calcium is essential for living organisms, including humans. It is vital for preserving bone strength and preventing diseases of the skeleton, such as osteoporosis. Find out about calcium's role in human health and foods that contain calcium. Discover also the risks of calcium deficiency and possible remedies. Read now
Everything you need to know about yogurt Yogurt is packed with nutrients that can include calcium and magnesium, good bacteria, and protein. But not all yogurts are as healthy as each other. In this article, we explain the good and the bad, and what makes the various types of yogurts different. Find out why some may benefit health and others are best avoided. Read now
Eight potential benefits of kombucha Many fizzy drinks and sodas can have damaging effects on various different parts of the body. However, kombucha is a healthier, yeast-based fizzy drink option. This MNT Knowledge Center article examines the health benefits of kombucha in detail, including mental health, weight loss, and liver health. Read now
Vegetarian and vegan sources of B-12 Vegetarians and vegans must take particular care to consume enough vitamin B-12, as it is mainly found in meat, eggs, and dairy. Learn what foods to eat. Read now
What are the signs of iodine deficiency A look at the signs of a deficiency in iodine, an important mineral that helps many bodily functions. Included is detail on diagnosis and the causes. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Bones / Orthopedics GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 25 September 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Bosse, J. D., & Dixon, B. M. (2012, September 8). Dietary protein to maximize resistance training: A review and examination of protein spread and change theories. Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition, 9(42). Retrieved from https://jissn.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1550-2783-9-42
Chen, M., Sun, Q., Giovannucci, E., Mozaffarian, D., Manson, J. E., Willet, W., & Hu, F. B. (2014, November 25). Dairy consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes: 3 cohorts of US adults and an updated meta-analysis. BMC Medicine, 12, 215. Retrieved from https://bmcmedicine.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12916-014-0215-1
Chung, H. R. (2014, March 31). Iodine and thyroid function. Annals of Pediatric Endocrinology and Metabolism, 19(1), 8–12. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4049553/
Dong, J. Y., Szeto, I. M., Makinen, K., Gao, Q., Wang, J., Qin, L. Q., & Zhao, Y. (2013, October). Effect of probiotic fermented milk on blood pressure: A meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials [Abstract]. The British Journal of Nutrition, 110(7), 1188–1194. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23823502
Halton, T. L., & Hu, F. B. (2004, October). The effects of high protein diets on thermogenesis, satiety and weight loss: A critical review [Abstract]. Journal of the American College of Nutrition, 23(5), 373–385. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15466943
Hemarajata, P., & Versalovic, J. (2013, January). Effects of probiotics on gut microbiota: Mechanisms of intestinal immunomodulation and neuromodulation. Therapeutic Advances in Gastroenterology, 6(1), 39–51. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3539293
Ivey, K. L., Hodgson, J. M., Kerr, D. A., Thompson, P. L., Stojceski, B., & Prince, R. L. (2015, January). The effect of yoghurt and its probiotics on blood pressure and serum lipid profile; A randomised controlled trial. Nutrition, Metabolism, and Cardiovascular Diseases, 25(1), 46–51. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25171898
Kerstetter, J. E., Kenny, A. M., & Insogna, K. L. (2015, November 25). Dietary protein and skeletal health: A review of recent human research. Current Opinion in Lipidology, 22(1), 16–20. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4659357/
Leidy, H. J., Clifton, P. M., Astrup, A., Wycherley, T. P., Westerterp-Plantenga, M. S., Luscombe-Marsh, N. D., … Mattes, R. D. (2015, June 1). The role of protein in weight loss and maintenance. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 101(6), 1320S–1329S. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/ajcn/article/101/6/1320S/4564492
Mittal, R., Debs, L. H., Patel, A. P., Nguyen, D., Patel, K., O'Connor, G., … Liu, X. Z. (2017, September). Neurotransmitters: The critical modulators regulating gut-brain axis [Abstract]. Journal of Cellular Physiology, 232(9), 2359–2372. Retrieved from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/jcp.25518
Mohammadi, A. A., Jazayeri, S., Khosravi-Darani, K., Solati, Z., Mohammadpour, N., Asemi, Z., … Eghtesadi, S. (2016, November). The effects of probiotics on mental health and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in petrochemical workers [Abstract]. Nutritional Neuroscience, 19(9), 387–395. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25879690
Moore, J. B., Horti, A., & Fielding, B. A. (2018, September 18). Evaluation of the nutrient content of yogurts: A comprehensive survey of yogurt products in the major UK supermarkets. BMJ Open,8(8). Retrieved from https://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/8/8/e021387
Sunyecz, J. A. (2008, August). The use of calcium and vitamin D in the management of osteoporosis. Therapeutics and Clinical Risk Management,4(4), 827–836. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2621390/
Veldhorst, M. A., Westerterp-Plantenga, M. S., & Westerterp, K. R. (2009, September). Gluconeogenesis and energy expenditure after a high-protein, carbohydrate-free diet [Abstract]. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 90(3), 519–526. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19640952
Weigle, D. S., Breen, P. A., Mattys, C. C., Callaha, H. S., Meeuws, K. E., Burden, V. R., & Purnell, J. Q. (2005, July). A high-protein diet induces sustained reductions in appetite, ad libitum caloric intake, and body weight despite compensatory changes in diurnal plasma leptin and ghrelin concentrations [Abstract]. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 82(1), 41–48. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16002798
Zmora, N., Zilberman-Schapira, G., Suez, J., Mor, U., Dori-Bachash, M., Bashiardes, S., … Elinav, E. (2018, September 6). Personalized gut mucosal colonization resistance to empiric probiotics is associated with unique host and microbiome features. Cell, 174(6), 1388–1405. Retrieved from https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(18)31102-4?
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Burgess, Lana. "Is Greek yogurt good for you?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 25 Sep. 2018. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323169.php>
APA
Burgess, L. (2018, September 25). "Is Greek yogurt good for you?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323169.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323169.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);