Calcium, Magnesium, & Zinc Supplement Safety During Pregnancy | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Parenting
Pregnancy
Pregnancy and Nutrition
Calcium, Magnesium, & Zinc Supplement Safety During Pregnancy
Kristin Mortensen
About the Author:
Kristin Mortensen
Kristin Mortensen began writing newspaper articles in 1992 for The Sierra Vista Herald. She has also been a registered dietitian since 1991, and has worked for hospitals, clinics and Women, Infants and Children (WIC) programs. Mortensen has a bachelor of science in dietetics from Brigham Young University.
View Full Profile
Pregnancy increases your need for various vitamins and minerals so your baby can grow and develop properly. Calcium, magnesium and zinc are just a few of the nutrients you need. Your health-care provider will most likely prescribe a prenatal vitamin to ensure that you get adequate amounts of the nutrients you need during pregnancy. Taking additional supplements may be harmful. Check with your health-care provider before taking any supplements.
Pregnancy increases your need for many vitamins and minerals. (Image: vadimguzhva/iStock/Getty Images)
Recommended Dietary Allowances
The recommended dietary allowance, or RDA, for calcium during pregnancy is 1,000 mg per day, with an upper limit of 2,500. The RDA for magnesium is 360 mg per day, with an upper limit of 350 mg per day from supplements, and the RDA for zinc during pregnancy is 11 mg per day, with an upper limit of 40 mg per day. Taking more than the upper limit of these minerals may have a harmful effect on you and your baby.
Function
According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, magnesium regulates the amount of calcium and zinc in the body. Magnesium is also the preferred treatment to prevent or treat seizures as a result of eclampsia, which may occur in the third trimester of pregnancy. It is given through an IV in the hospital. Calcium is needed for strong bones and teeth. Most pregnant women don't get enough calcium in their diet so supplementation may be needed. The Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University states that zinc is necessary for growth and development, the immune response and neurological function. A prenatal vitamin should provide adequate amounts of calcium, magnesium and zinc during your pregnancy.
Expert Insight
J. T. Repke from the department of gynecology and obstetrics at Johns Hopkins University published a study in the June 1991 issue of the journal "Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology" regarding calcium, magnesium and zinc supplementation and perinatal outcome. Repke found that the evidence is weak for magnesium supplementation and improving perinatal outcome. The routine use of zinc supplementation cannot be recommended at this time, but calcium supplementation is required for about two-thirds of pregnant women due to lack of calcium in the diet.
Prenatal Supplements
The American Pregnancy Association recommends taking one prenatal multivitamin as prescribed by your doctor. When you take various vitamins and supplements, you run the risk of overdosing on a certain vitamin or mineral, which may cause harm to you or your baby.
Precautions
Magnesium can interfere with other medications and competes with calcium for absorption. If your calcium levels are already low, taking more magnesium may result in even lower levels of calcium. Zinc toxicity can result in abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Consult with your health-care provider before taking any supplements during your pregnancy.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Perinatology.com: Daily Dietary Reference Intakes During Pregnancy
University of Maryland Medical Center: Magnesium
Linus Pauling Institute; Zinc; March 14, 2011
“Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology”: Calcium, Magnesium and Zinc Supplementation and Perinatal Outcome; Repke, J.T.; June 1991
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Should Magnesium Be Taken Separately From Food & Other Minerals?
2
Will Taking Too Much Magnesium Cause a Zinc Deficiency?
3
Chelated Zinc Side Effects
4
Calcium and Magnesium in Caltrate: What Does It Do for the Body?
5
Is it Safe to Take Magnesium When Pregnant?
6
Calcium Magnesium & Zinc Supplement Side Effects
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.