Insect Bites and Stings | What to do | Treatment & Advice | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Health Info
Skincare and Conditions
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Download PDF
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Insect Bites and Stings
Authored by Dr Laurence Knott, Reviewed by Dr Hannah Gronow | Last edited 28 Dec 2018 | Certified by The Information Standard
In this series
In this series: Jellyfish Sting
In this series Jellyfish Sting
Most stings from bees, wasps and hornets cause pain and slight swelling but have little other effect. However, some people are allergic to stings and can develop reactions that can be life-threatening. Call an ambulance immediately if you suspect an allergic reaction soon after being stung. If you are stung by a bee and the stinger remains in the skin, scrape out the stinger as quickly as possible. Do not pluck it out as this may squeeze more venom into the skin.
Insect bites (not stings) rarely cause serious allergic reactions but can cause small itchy lumps to appear on the skin. Itch may be eased by a soothing ointment, antihistamine tablets, or steroid cream. Some insects infest pets, furniture, etc, and can cause repeated bites.
In this article
Insect stings
Insect bites
How do you know if a bite or sting is infected?
Allergies to insect stings
Preventing insect bites and stings
In This Article
Insect Bites and Stings
In this article
Insect stings
Insect bites
How do you know if a bite or sting is infected?
Allergies to insect stings
Preventing insect bites and stings
Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE
Insect stings
What is the treatment for an insect sting?
Most insect stings (of which the most common are bee and wasp stings) result in a mild local skin reaction.
If you develop a mild local skin reaction:
A cold compress will ease any pain and help to minimise any swelling - for example, use a cold flannel or an ice pack.
A painkiller such as paracetamol or ibuprofen may help if you have any pain.
If it is itchy, you may not need any treatment, as itching often soon fades. However, sometimes an itch persists for hours or days. No treatment will take the itch away fully but the following may help:
Crotamiton ointment (which you can buy at pharmacies) is soothing when rubbed on to itchy skin.
A steroid cream may be useful - for example, hydrocortisone which you can buy at pharmacies or obtain on prescription. A doctor may prescribe a stronger steroid cream in some cases.
Antihistamine tablets may be useful if you have lots of bites. In particular, a sedative antihistamine at night may help if the itch is interfering with sleep. A pharmacist can advise on which types of antihistamine are sedative and can help with sleep
Bee stings
If you are stung by a bee, treat the mild skin reaction as above.
If the stinger is still in place - scrape it out:
Scrape out a bee sting left in the skin as quickly as possible. Use the edge of a knife, the edge of a credit card, a fingernail, or anything similar.
The quicker you remove the sting the better; so use anything suitable to scrape out the sting quickly.
Do not try to grab the sting to pluck it out, as this may squeeze more venom into the skin. Scraping it out is better.
Wasp stings
Wasps do not leave a stinger in the skin when they sting. If you are stung by a wasp, treat the local skin reaction as above.
Localised allergic reaction
Some people are allergic to insect stings. If this happens, you will notice swelling at the site of the sting. This becomes larger over several hours and then gradually goes away over a few days. The size of the swelling can vary but can become many centimetres across. The swelling may even extend up an entire arm or leg. The swelling is not dangerous unless it affects your airway. However, if it is severe, the skin may break out in blisters.
If you develop a localised allergic reaction:
Take an antihistamine tablet as soon as possible. You can buy these at pharmacies, or obtain them on prescription. Antihistamines block the action of histamine, which is a chemical that is released by certain cells in the body during allergic reactions.
Use a cold compress to ease pain and to help reduce swelling. For example, use a cold flannel or an ice pack.
Painkillers such as paracetamol or ibuprofen can help to ease the pain.
Continue with antihistamines until the swelling eases. This may be for a few days.
See a doctor if the swelling is severe. Your doctor may prescribe a short course of steroid tablets to counter the inflammation.
The treatment for insect stings is pretty much the same as for bites. Stings are more likely to cause a serious allergic reaction, the treatment for which is described below.
Generalised allergic reaction
This is an uncommon but more serious reaction to an insect sting (and occasionally an insect bite). It happens most often with wasp stings. About a quarter of people who are stung by a wasp or bee have some kind of allergic reaction. Only in a small proportion of these is the reaction severe. This severe reaction is called anaphylaxis and without quick treatment you would soon become unconscious. A small number of people die every year as a result of this kind of severe reaction, usually because they do not obtain treatment quickly enough.
Symptoms of a severe reaction
These include:
Itchy skin in many parts of the body, followed by an itchy blotchy rash that can appear anywhere on the body.
Swelling of your face, which may extend to the lips, tongue, throat and upper airway.
A sense of impending doom.
Tummy (abdominal) cramps and feeling sick.
Dilation of the blood vessels, which can cause:
General redness of your skin.
A fast heart rate.
Low blood pressure, which can make you feel faint or even cause you to collapse.
Wheezing or difficulty in breathing, due to an asthma attack or the throat swelling.
A severe generalised reaction will usually develop within 10 minutes of a sting.
If any symptoms of a generalised allergic reaction develop
See above, and then:
Call an ambulance immediately.
If you have been issued with an adrenaline (epinephrine) pen, use it as directed straightaway. (You must however still call an ambulance.)
You may be given oxygen and injections of adrenaline (epinephrine), steroids and antihistamines in hospital to counter the allergic reaction.
Some people require a fluid 'drip' and other intensive resuscitation.
Serious non-allergic reactions
If you have many bee or wasp stings at the same time, this can also cause serious illness. This is usually directly due to the high dose of venom, rather than to an allergy.
When should you seek medical advice?
You should seek medical advice if the sting looks infected (see below), if you develop symptoms of a generalised allergic reaction, or if you have a skin reaction that seems to be persistent and/or spreading.
Insect bites
How do you treat insect bites?
Insect bites are treated in the same way as insect stings, except you don't have to worry about scraping off a stinger.
When should you seek medical advice?
As with insect stings, you should seek medical advice if the bite looks infected, you develop a generalised allergic reaction or you have a skin reaction that persists or spreads.
What insect bites cause swelling?
Biting insects that are common in the UK include midges, gnats, mosquitoes, flies, fleas, mites, ticks and bedbugs. They can all cause swelling or bumps on the skin.
A small itchy lump (papule) which may develop up to 24 hours after a bite. This typically lasts for several days before fading away. Sometimes some redness (inflammation) surrounds each papule.
A wheal is a red, slightly raised mark on the skin, which is often itchy but temporary. It may develop immediately after being bitten. A wheal lasts about two hours but is often followed by a small itchy solid lump which develops up to 24 hours later. This can last for several days before fading away.
How do you know if a bite or sting is infected?
Occasionally, a skin infection develops following a bite, particularly if you scratch a lot, which can damage the skin and allow germs (bacteria) to get in. The signs of infection will be redness and tenderness around the bite. You may also develop a yellow discharge from the area. This is called pus. Over a period of several days, the infection may spread and, sometimes, can become serious. If the skin around a bite becomes infected then you may need a course of antibiotics. This is not commonly needed.
Allergies to insect stings
In the UK most allergic reactions are caused by wasp stings.
About a quarter of people who are stung by a wasp or bee have some kind of allergic reaction.
You do not have an allergic reaction after a first sting by a particular type of insect. You need one or more stings to 'sensitise' your immune system.
Sometimes it takes many stings to sensitise you. This is why some beekeepers who have had many previous stings may suddenly develop an allergic reaction to a bee sting.
Bee and wasp venoms are different. People who are sensitised and 'allergic' to wasp venom are rarely allergic to bee venom.
About 1 in 5 people who have had a previous generalised allergic reaction to a sting have no such reaction, or only a milder reaction, to a further sting. Therefore, if you have a generalised reaction to a sting, it does not necessarily mean it will happen again if you are stung again.
However, the course can be variable. A series of stings may result in a generalised allergic reaction, no reaction and then another generalised allergic reaction. The reason why some people have variable reactions to a series of stings is not clear.
In short, if you have an allergic reaction to a sting, you cannot predict what will happen next time you are stung. Your doctor may refer you to an allergy clinic if a sting has caused a generalised reaction or you have developed a large local skin reaction with redness and swelling over 10 cm.
An allergy clinic will be able to do tests to confirm the type of venom or insect to which you are allergic. There are then two possible options which may be considered:
Emergency medication: you are given a supply of emergency medication to use when necessary. Some people are given a preloaded syringe of adrenaline (epinephrine) together with a written treatment plan to cope with any future reactions. You (and relatives) can be taught how and when to use the treatments provided.
Desensitisation: you are given injections of tiny amounts of venom from the type of insect that causes your allergic reaction. Repeated doses of venom over several weeks can 'desensitise' your immune system and so you will not react severely next time you are stung. This treatment involves some risk of causing a severe reaction, so it is not undertaken lightly. It is only available in certain specialised centres.
Preventing insect bites and stings
When out and about
Bites and stings most commonly occur when outside, particularly in the countryside.
The following measures are recommended to reduce the risk of stings from bees and wasps:
Wear light-coloured clothing.
Avoid strong fragrances, perfumes and highly scented shampoos.
Wear shoes while outdoors and cover your body with clothing and a hat. Use gloves while gardening.
Avoid picking fruit from the ground or trees.
Avoid drinking out of opened drink bottles or cans to prevent being stung inside the mouth.
Wash hands after eating or handling sticky or sweet foods outdoors (especially children's hands).
Keep uneaten foods covered, especially when eating outdoors.
Always contact professionals to remove bee or wasp nests.
Wear full protective clothing while handling bees.
Ways to avoid bites include:
Wear long-sleeved clothing and long trousers in places where insects are common.
Avoid brightly coloured clothes, cosmetics, perfumes or hair sprays, which attract insects.
Rub an insect repellent on to exposed areas of skin.
A complete head covering with a plastic viewer. Where midges are common, some people wear these when out - for example, when camping next to lakes and rivers. Many camping shops sell them.
There is no evidence that eating garlic, vitamin B1 or other foods will repel insects.
Tick bites
The tick usually clings to the skin. Remove the tick as soon as possible after the bite, using fine tweezers or fingernails to grab the tick as close to the skin as possible. Pull it gently and slowly straight out and try not to squeeze the body of the tick. Clean the site of the bite with disinfectant. (Traditional methods of tick removal using a burned match, petroleum jelly, or nail polish do not work well and are not recommended.)
One type of tick carries a germ called Borrelia burgdorferi which causes Lyme disease. See the separate leaflet called Lyme Disease for more details.
Next page
Jellyfish Sting
Did you find this information useful? yes no
Thanks for your feedback!
Why not subscribe to the newsletter?
Email address *
We'd love to send you our articles and latest news by email, giving you the best opportunity to stay up to date with expert written health and lifestyle content.
By clicking 'Subscribe' you agree to our Terms and conditions and Privacy policy.
Subscribe
Thanks for your feedback. if you would like to report a specific issue with this page, please visit our feedback page.
Thank you, we just sent a survey email to confirm your preferences.
Further reading and references
Diagnosis and management of hymenoptera venom allergy - guidelines; British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (2011)
Tracy JM, Lewis EJ, Demain JG; Insect anaphylaxis: addressing clinical challenges. Curr Opin Allergy Clin Immunol. 2011 Aug11(4):332-6.
Demain JG, Minaei AA, Tracy JM; Anaphylaxis and insect allergy. Curr Opin Allergy Clin Immunol. 2010 Aug10(4):318-22.
Koterba AP, Greenberger PA; Chapter 4: Stinging insect allergy and venom immunotherapy. Allergy Asthma Proc. 2012 May-Jun33 Suppl 1:12-4.
Insect bites and stings; NICE CKS, October 2016 (UK access only)
Moote W, Kim H, Ellis AK; Allergen-specific immunotherapy. Allergy Asthma Clin Immunol. 2018 Sep 1214(Suppl 2):53. doi: 10.1186/s13223-018-0282-5. eCollection 2018.
Pucci S, D'Alo S, De Pasquale T, et al; Risk of anaphylaxis in patients with large local reactions to hymenoptera stings: a retrospective and prospective study. Clin Mol Allergy. 2015 Nov 913:21. doi: 10.1186/s12948-015-0030-z. eCollection 2015.
Related Information
Insect Bites and Stings Pro
Antihistamines
Hyposensitisation Pro
Anaphylaxis and its Treatment Pro
Allergic Phenomena Pro
View all
The best ways to prevent and treat insect bites
5 minutes reading time 01-May-18
I had a bad colles radius fracture 7 weeks ago requring a 'bier block' manoevre (agony) and have been out of plaster now for 9 days. I am doing excercises which I have found on the internet as there...
chloe02837
Join the discussion on the forums
Health Tools
Feeling unwell?
Assess your symptoms online with our free symptom checker.
Start symptom checker
Article Information
Last Reviewed 28 December 2018
Next Review 27 December 2021
Document ID 4726 (v43)
Author Dr Laurence Knott
Peer reviewer Dr Hannah Gronow
The information on this page is written and peer reviewed by qualified clinicians.
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up