What is Aromatherapy & Does it Work?
Conditions
Allergy
Autoimmune Disorder
Blood / Hematology
Cancer
Cardiovascular System
Childhood Illnesses
Ear / Eye
Endocrinal System
Face, Mouth & Throat
Gastrointestinal System
Genetic Disorders
Genitourinary System
Infectious Diseases
Metabolic System
Musculoskeletal System
Nervous System
Psychiatric Disorders
Skin Problems
Women's Health Guide
All Topics
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
Hip Injuries
Knee Injuries
Pelvic, Groin & Buttock Pain
Wrist Injuries
All Topics
Personal Injury
Auto Accident
Work Accident
Gunshot Wound
Disability
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Q & A
Erectile Dysfunction: Does Opioid Cause ED
Do I have Fibromyalgia?
Splitting Headache: Is It a Migraine?
Did I have a stroke?
Libido: Opioid Induced Female Sexual Dysfunction
All Topics
Articles
Travel & Health
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
Dietary Do’s & Don’ts for Migraine Sufferers
Home Remedies for Arthritis
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
Understanding Joint Pain and Tips to Get Relief Using Home Remedies
All Topics
Treatments
Opioids
Antidepressant Analgesics
Interventional Treatment
Local Applications
Antiepileptics Analgesics
Medications
Tests and Procedures
Allergy Meds
Alternative Therapy
Chakra and Aura
Home Remedies
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness and Exercise
Yoga
Tabata
Pilates
Manual Therapy
Chiropractic Treatment
Spa Therapy
Physical Therapy
Massage Therapy
All Topics
News
Navigation Menu
Menu
Global Notification
Global Search
Subscribe
Global Search
Home
Different Types of Alternative Therapy
What is Aromatherapy & Does it Work?
Reviewed By: Board Certified Physician
Aromatherapy is today one of the most known alternative forms of treating physical and emotional being. Aromatherapy is the use of several essential oils from flowers, herbs and other aromatic plants for achieving relaxation and relief from stress. It is also believed that this therapy also works in treating several ill health conditions and disorders. Various spas and lotions claim that aromatherapy where there is systematic use of essential oils in holistic treatments for improving well being of individuals; can work all sorts of wonders, from reducing anxiety and pain to boosting up energy and short-term memory. There is also a belief that aromatherapy can even prevent hair loss. But, is it real true that aromatherapy actually work? Well! You need to check on that before proceeding on such a treatment on self or your near ones.
What is Aromatherapy?
So, Aromatherapy as the name suggest makes use of aroma or fragrance from essential oils or concentrated aromatic liquids extracted from herbs and plants, to enhance health and boost feelings of well being. In Aromatherapy, the essential oils are applied to the body in various ways like, massage, bath, creams, inhalation, compresses etc. and as a rule they are not taken internally.
Though the term “Aromatherapy” was not known until early 1900s, the concept has been around for several years. Today, aromatherapy is popular not only in spas, but also in special treatments to relieve labor pains, in promoting restful sleep and reduce the side effects of chemotherapy.
Does Aromatherapy Work?
Now, let us know how aromatherapy actually works! When essential oils are applied on the body, they penetrate the skin through hair follicles and sweat glands and then are absorbed in to the body fluids. Here the aromatherapy using essential oils not only help in killing bacteria and viruses but also stimulate the body’s immune system and thus strengthens resistance to further attack.
Each essential oil used in aromatherapy has its own character and aroma, exhibiting a number of properties and benefits which are unique to itself. Some of the oils enhance the circulation and aid with the efficient elimination of toxins while others promote growth of new cells and encourage the body’s natural ability to heal itself.
When essential oils are used to inhale, the minute molecules of the oils get readily absorbed in to the bloodstream as the lungs work to oxygenate the blood. This form of absorption of the fragrance from essential oils can be done by adding them in to the bathwater or diffusing them in a vaporizer. The aroma sends a direct signal to the Limbic system in the brain which is known to be the center of memory, emotion and sexual arousal. That is the reason why essential oils have powerful effects on our mood and general state of mind.
More about the effectiveness of aromatherapy can be known from the following arrays of the article.
Studies That Shows Aromatherapy Does Work:
Now, we cannot simply rely on theories every time. So, there have been some specific studies on aromatherapy which suggested that this kind of therapy actually does work in some good extent. Here we will take a look on some of the scientific studies that have positive notes on aromatherapy and its benefits to emotional and mental well being.
Recent research on aromatherapy found that sniffing lavender oils along with rosemary, reduced stress in graduate nursing students while their examinations.
It was found in one more study from the University of Vienna that when the scent of orange oil was used in dental clinics, female patients who were present for their dental procedures exhibited reduced levels of anxiety. One more study found that the sweet smelling scent found few signs of reduced anxiety in dental patients who were ready for upcoming procedures. So, these studies suggest that some fragrances may have effect on mood and thus aromatherapy does work effectively in mood enhancing or reducing stress and anxiety.
A study from Mie University School of Medicine found that patients of depression required smaller doses of antidepressant medications after their citrus fragrance treatment or after the aromatherapy.
Aromatherapy Does Not Work On Improving Health And Hair Loss:
Although it has been known to promote mood and reduce anxiety to some extent; Aromatherapy has not been proved to reduce pain, prevent hair loss or promote health. Scientific evidences for physiological improvements due to aromatherapy are lacking. In fact, a newer study conducted at Ohio State University, found that aromatherapy did not cause any physiological effects. While lemon oil improved mood; neither lemon oil, nor lavender oil significantly changed pain ratings, blood pressure, heart rate, wound healing or levels of stress hormone. This proves that aromatherapy does not provide all health benefits that are claimed by spas and other essential oil businesses.
Conclusion:
Though aromatherapy, as an alternative medicine may have been helping millions of people in various ways, especially in their mental and emotional well beings; there are things one must know and be careful about before undergoing the therapy. It is a must for you to consult your physician and a trained aromatherapist about the possible side effects and risks of the therapy.
It must be noted that preventive measures go very long way and one must take all the required preventive measures before going for any type of treatment or alternative treatments.
Also Read:
Benefits of Aromatherapy
About Aromatherapy, its Benefits & Essential Oils
What's App
Facebook
Twitter
Pintrest
Print
Email
Written, Edited or Reviewed By:
Pramod Kerkar, MD,FFARCSI
Pain Assist Inc.
Last Modified On: June 10, 2017
This article does not provide medical advice. See disclaimer
You May Also Like
What is Acupressure?
READ MORE >>
What is Hydrotherapy?
READ MORE >>
Effectiveness of Angel Therapy as an Alternative Treatment
READ MORE >>
Can Reiki Relieve Chronic Pain?
READ MORE >>
Magnet Therapy & Its Beneficial Effect On Health | 6 Benefits of Biomagnets
READ MORE >>
ePainAssist Home
View More
Rib Pain Images
Symptom Checker
Find A Physician
Health Topics
Health News
Videos
Slideshows
Recent Post
Infections
What Are The Symptoms Of MRSA In The Nose?
Home Remedies
Natural Remedies For Multiple System Atrophy
Is Multiple System Atrophy Inherited?
Is Multiple System Atrophy Contagious?
Is Multiple System Atrophy An Autoimmune Disease?
>> More
Most Popular
Disability
Does Sickle Cell Disease Qualify For Disability Benefits?
Allergies
Sun Allergy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Prognosis, Prevention, Recovery
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Medicare for Chiropractic Care: What Does it Cover & What It Doesn’t Cover|Medicare Advantage Plans
Travel & Health
Can You Fly With A Blood Clot & What are the Precautions to be Taken?
Home Remedies
Symptoms of Silent Reflux in Infant & its Natural Remedies
Symptom Checker
Get To Know What Possibly Could Be Causing Your Symptoms!
Men Women
Subscribe to Free ePainAssist Newsletters
I agree to the ePainAssist Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
We'll help you live each day to the healthiest
Email
Join
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram
Download Our Mobile Apps
Copyright © 2019 PainAssist Inc (ePainAssist) | All rights reserved.
Contact Us
Disclaimer
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Financial Disclosure Policy
Information Policy
Find Physician
Pain Blog
Images and Text Policy
Medical Quiz
Videos
Pain Discussion Board
Post A Question
Chiropractors
Pain Physicians
Orthopedic Surgeons
Neurological Surgeons
Neurologists
Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine Doctors
Physical Medicine and Rehabitation Specialists
Note: Information provided is not a substitute for physician, hospital or any form of medical care. Consult your medical care providers for medical advice, treatments and followup.