VITAMIN B DID NOT IMPROVE MEMORY OR THINKING
Skip to content
Exercises
Tips
Techniques
Research
Games
Nootropics
Nootropic List
Nootropics Uses
Exercises
Tips
Techniques
Research
Games
Nootropics
Nootropic List
Nootropics Uses
VITAMIN B DID NOT IMPROVE MEMORY OR THINKING
Mental games can support keep brain quick, but warding off dementia disease that can happen in old age may take extra than that. Latest research inspected whether a vitamin supplement could support.
Homocysteine – an amino acid type in the body from the breakdown of protein- has been exposed to be toxic to brain nerve cells. A research group from the Netherlands freshly studied whether decreasing homocysteine- by offering patients B-12 vitamin and folic acid would keep the brain quick in older people.
The study found that decreasing homocysteine in elderly people with Vitamins B did not get better their memory or thinking skills.
Nikita L.van from Wageningen University, Netherlands, and his partners wrote the study.
“Since homocysteine levels can be lowered with Vitamin B-12 supplements and folic acid, the hopes has been that taking these vitamins could also decrease the danger of Alzheimer, Rosalie A.M Dhonukhshe-Rutten, (Study author), said in a press release.
The study included 2,920 people with an average of age 75. All the patients in the study had top levels of homocysteine in the blood, a 12 to 55 micromoles per liter, Homocysteine worth of less than 13 are considered general, according to the USA Heart Association.
Dr.van de Zwaluw and colleagues gave the patients either four hundred micrograms of folic acid and fifty micrograms B-12 Vitamin or a placebo daily for 2 years. Each group of patients also took 15 ug of D-3 vitamin. Food rich in B-12 vitamin and folic acid include almonds, egg yolks, spinach, and whole-grain breads.
The homocysteine levels decreased five umol/I in the group of people who took the B-12 Vitamin and folic acid supplements. Homocysteine decreased by approximately 1 umol/I in the people who took the placebo.
The study authors used cognitive tests to assess memory and thinking skills in the patients. The 2 groups had similar test outcomes.
The common mental condition of the people in the group who got the supplements improved slightly, but the study authors said they did not understand whether this little improvement was due to chance.
“To unravel the effects of Vitamin B, a quicker look in the early brain would be supportive to uncover subtle effects that are hard to detect with pencil and paper tests,” Dr van der Zwaluw and team wrote.
The authors noted that their study focused on healthy people with raised homocysteine. They said the outcomes might not be the exact in people who already suffering from dementia. Dementia is a mental issue marked by behavior changes and decreased thinking and memory. It is most general in older patients.
This study was released online 12 November in Neurology.
Several groups in the Netherlands help the study through finance, such as Netherlands Consortium for Healthy Ageing and Netherlands Organization for Development Health Research.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lnpAnLm6IYs
Comments
comments
Categories ResearchTags improve memory, thinking, vitamin b	Post navigation
Brain’s taste secrets exposed
COMPLEX JOBS MAY PROTECT MEMORY
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
CONTACT INFORMATION
Pivot Consulting Group
123 Main Street
Vancouver BC Canada
Office: +1.613.555.0155
STAY CONNECTED
Disclaimer
No statements on this website have been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. No products mentioned on this website are intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any diseases. All editorials on this site were written by volunteer editors and do not claim or state to be medical professionals giving medical advice. This website is only for the purpose of providing information. Please consult with your doctor before starting any mental health programs or dietary supplements. If you feel any of this information is inaccurate contact us and we will verify and implement your correction within about 48 business hours. Also, note that we have multiple affiliates and we are paid commission on various products by different companies and or advertisers. If you wish to advertise with us, please contact us. Any and all trademarks, logos and service marks displayed on this site are registered or unregistered Trademarks of their respective owners.
© 2019 GeneratePress
Scroll back to top
Home
Services
About
Blog
Contact
+1.613.555.0155
Close