Ticks & Lyme Disease | Thunder Bay District Health Unit
Skip to main content
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Mini Navigation
Bid Opportunities
Careers
Contact
Blog
Search
Search
Main navigation
About Us
Annual Reports & Financial Statements
Bid Opportunities
Board of Health
Careers
Message from MOH & CEO
Our Locations
Performance & Accountability
Programs & Services
RNAO Best Practice Spotlight Organization
Social Media
Strategic Plan 2017-2020
Volunteer
Health Topics
Air Quality
Alcohol, Cannabis & Other Drugs
Animal Bites & Scratches
Beaches & Pools
Body Art & Salons
Breastfeeding
Diseases & Infections
Drinking Water
Emergencies & Being Prepared
Food Safety
Healthy Eating
Health Equity
Home Health & Safety
Immunizations
Injury Prevention
Insects, Rodents & Other Pests
Inspections & Enforcement
Mental Health
Oral Health
Parenting
Physical Activity
Pregnancy
Schools & Daycares
Septic Systems
Sex & Sexuality
Smoking, Vaping & Tobacco
Sun Safety & Tanning
Travel
Vision
Workplace Health
FAQ
Resources
Video Gallery
Classes, Clinics & Events
News
Professionals
Health Care Providers
Educators & Schools
Workplaces
Menu
https://www.tbdhu.com/sites/default/files/media-bundles/images/banner-images/tick.jpg
Tick on a leaf
Breadcrumb
Home
Health Topics
Insects, Rodents & Other Pests
Ticks & Lyme Disease
Ticks & Lyme Disease
Ticks are Present in Thunder Bay and District
Most ticks in the Thunder Bay district are harmless. However, blacklegged ticks (or deer ticks) have been found in the district and have tested positive for Lyme disease. These ticks are active whenever the temperature rises above 4ºC, including spring and the fall.
Lyme disease is a serious illness caused by bacteria that affects the heart and lungs, the joints and the central nervous system. Visit Lyme Disease fact sheet page for more information.
Prevent the Bite
Ontario’s Ministry of Health and Long-Term care encourages residents to:
• COVER UP: Protect yourself when you are active outdoors; wear long sleeves, tuck pants in socks and wear light coloured clothing so ticks are more easily noticed
• USE BUG SPRAY: Follow the directions and use bug spray containing DEET or Icaridin on clothes and exposed skin to keep bugs away.
• CHECK YOURSELF & YOUR PETS: Do a tick check before heading indoors (home, camp, tent). Look in warm, hidden areas on the body including armpits, in and around the hair and ears, between the legs, and the back of the knees. Don’t forget the family pet; in and around the ears, on the belly and between the toes. A Tick Check Zone poster (PDF) provides ideas on where to look on a human and a dog.
Know the Tick
The Don't Get TICKED Outdoors Poster (PDF) includes images of both a wood tick and a blacklegged tick. Females are usually larger than the males and the size of each tick depends on the stage of the lifecycle; eggs to larva to nymphs to full-size adults.
Ticks can range in size from a poppy seed in the nymph stage to a pea when they are engorged (full of blood). Wood ticks are larger in size than the blacklegged ticks.
For example:
a female wood tick is about 0.5 cm long
a female blacklegged tick is about 0.3 cm long
Here is a photo of blacklegged ticks at different stages of feeding. The largest is filled with blood after feeding:
Source: Government of Canada
Use these photos below to help you identify any ticks you might find:
Photo credit: University of Rhode Island; TickEncounter Resource Centre (http://www.tickencounter.org/)
Wood ticks OR American dog ticks are nuisance ticks
Adult male - cream/brown body
Adult female - brown body with a cream cape
Photo credit: University of Rhode Island; TickEncounter Resource Centre (http://www.tickencounter.org/)
Blacklegged ticks or deer ticks have the potential to carry Lyme disease
Adult male - all black
Adult female - reddish/brown body with a black cape
If you think it’s a blacklegged tick or you are not sure, please submit it to the Health Unit for identification. You can bring it to the office in Thunder Bay at 999 Balmoral Street from Monday to Friday, 8:30 am to 4:30 pm. If you live in the district, you can drop the tick off at your nearest Health Unit office. If the tick is a blacklegged tick, it will be sent for testing.
It is also possible that the tick might be engorged when you find it. This means it is filled with blood after feeding. The photo below is an engorged female wood tick, found on a dog.
Remove the Tick
Ticks bite, draw blood, enlarge and then drop off. The tick's mouth will be under the skin, but the belly will be sticking out. You can pick up a tick removal kit from a Health Unit office or make your own by placing a pair of fine-tipped tweezers and an alcohol pad in a plastic bag. You can also include a copy of the Tick Removal Kit Insert (PDF).
To remove the tick, follow these steps:
Do not try to burn the tick off or use anything to smother it (e.g. Vaseline©).
Ticks penetrate the skin with their mouthparts, draw blood, enlarge and then drop off. The feeding tick's mouth will be under the skin, but the abdomen will be sticking out.
Use fine-tipped tweezers. Grab the head and mouth as close to the skin as possible.
Pull up slowly until the tick is completely removed.
Do not twist or turn.
Put it in a clean container and mark the date and geographic location of where the tick was picked up.
Wash the area with soap and water OR apply rubbing alcohol.
Monitor the bite. See a health care provider with concerns. Let them know any history of exposure to ticks (time spent outdoors), any rashes associated with the bite, travel history and possible dates when you might have been bitten.
Submit the Tick for Testing
If you think you've found a blacklegged tick OR you are not sure:
Bring it in for identification to the office in Thunder Bay (999 Balmoral Street from Monday to Friday, 8:30 am to 4:30 pm) OR drop the tick off at your nearest Health Unit office in the district.
Wait for a call from the Health Unit. All blacklegged ticks are sent for testing and you will be notified when the results are received.
The Health Unit is Monitoring the Tick Population
The TBDHU monitors the tick population through.
Passive Tick Collection: Members of the public can bring ticks into the TBDHU (including District offices) for identification.
Active Tick Collection: The TBDHU does “tick dragging” in locations where two or more blacklegged ticks have been found by the public.
For Further Information
Call the Environmental Health Program: (807) 625-5900
or toll-free 1-888-294-6630
External Links
What is Lyme Disease? (Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care)
Lyme Disease Risk Area (PDF Map – Public Health Ontario)
Surveillance of Lyme disease (Government of Canada)
Last Updated: 19/07/2018
Insects, Rodents & Other Pests
Main navigation - 3rd Level
Bed Bugs
Pesticide Use
Ticks & Lyme Disease
Recent News
Outbreak Over: Chartwell Thunder Bay Retirement Residence
April 12, 2019
Related Content
Insects, Rodents & Other Pests
Lyme Disease
Lyme Disease (for Health Professionals)
Infectious Diseases Toolkit - Diseases of Public Health Significance (formerly …
Don't Get TICKED Outdoors Poster
Tick Check Zones Poster
Tick Removal Kit Insert
UPDATED - Ticks & Lyme Disease in the Thunder Bay District
Toll Free:1-888-294-6630
Main Phone:1-807-625-5900
Fax:1-807-623-2369
Address:999 Balmoral St.
Thunder Bay, ON
P7B 6E7
connect with TBDHU
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Contact Us
Footer menu
Accessibility
Copyright
Disclaimer
Fees
Privacy
Scent Safe Policy
Blog
Contact
© Copyright 2016 Thunder Bay District Health Unit