Buy Imitrex Online Usa | Sumatriptan Without Prescription
Language
USA
UK
AU
CA
DE
FR
IT
ES
About us
About us
Questions
Testimonials
Shipping Policy
Contact us
Order status
Blog
Buy Imitrex Online
Usa
$3.42 per pill.
+ Free standard airmail service
+ Package delivery insurance
+ Next orders 10% discount
ADD TO CART
Learn More
Music with headache
If the headache worries rarely and once, then to cope with it will help to take an anesthetic pill
Learn More
Shooting headache
All the Lorem Ipsum generators on the Internet tEnd to repeat prede chun as necessary.
Learn More
Headache during sleep
Usually, such attacks just make you wake up, and do not deprive you of sleep for the whole night.
Learn More
Why does the headache
Throughout the world, one of the most common ailments in a person is headache or cephalalgia.
Learn More
Pain of forehead and eyes
Headache is the main and powerful signal that sends the affected organ to the host.
Learn More
Tensor headache
This means that the head hurts from stress, which is caused by
stress.
Learn More
Imitrex (Sumatriptan)
Imitrex (sumatriptan) is a cure for a headache that narrows the blood vessels around the brain. Sumatriptan also reduces the amount of substances in the body that can cause headache, nausea, sensitivity to light and sound, and other migraine symptoms.
What is Imitrex?
Imitrex is used to treat migraine headaches. Imitrex will only cure a headache that has already begun. This will not prevent headaches or reduce the number of attacks.
Imitrex should not be used to treat a common headache or headache that causes loss of movement on one side of your body. Use this medicine only if your condition is confirmed by the doctor as a migraine headache.
Important information
You should not use Imitrex if you have uncontrolled high blood pressure, heart problems, heart rhythm disturbances, a history of heart attack or stroke, or blood circulation problems that cause shortage of blood supply in the body.
Do not use Imitrex if you have used an MAO inhibitor within the past 14 days, for example isocarboxazide, linezolid, methylene blue injection, phenelzine, rasagiline, selegiline, or tranylcypromine.
Slideshow 10 common symptoms that should never be ignored
Before using Imitrex, tell your doctor if you have liver or kidney disease, seizures, high blood pressure, heart rhythm disorder, or coronary heart disease (or risk factors such as diabetes, menopause, smoking, overweight, high cholesterol, family history of coronary artery disease, age over 40 years and a man or woman who had a hysterectomy).
Also tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant, such as citalopram (Celexa), desvenlafaxine (Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), escitalopram (Lexapro), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem), fluvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine (Paxil) sertraline Zoloft) or venlafaxine (Effexor).
Imitrex will only cure a headache that has already begun. This will not prevent headaches or reduce the number of attacks.
After taking the tablet, you should wait two (2) hours before taking the second pill. Do not take more than 200 mg of sumatriptan within 24 hours.
Before taking this medicine
You should not use Imitrex if you are allergic to sumatriptan, or if you have:
Coronary artery disease, angina (chest pain), problems with blood circulation, lack of blood supply to the heart;
A cardiac disorder called Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome;
A history of heart disease, heart attack or stroke, including a "mini-blow"
Unprocessed or uncontrolled high blood pressure;
Severe liver disease;
Circulatory problems that affect your intestines; or
Headache, which seems different from your usual migraine headaches.
Do not use Imitrex if you have used an MAO inhibitor within the last 14 days.
Dangerous interaction with drugs can occur. MAO inhibitors include isocarboxazide, linezolid, methylene blue injection, phenelzine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine and others.
To make sure Imitrex is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have:
Diseases of the liver or kidney;
Epilepsy or other seizure disorder;
High blood pressure, heart rhythm disorder; or risk factors for coronary heart disease (eg, diabetes, menopause, smoking, being overweight, high cholesterol, the presence of a family history of coronary artery disease, age older than 40 years and a man, or a woman who has had a hysterectomy).
It is not known whether Imitrex harms an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant.
Sumatriptan can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. Do not breast-feed for 12 hours after using Imitrex. If you use a milk pump during this time, discard any milk that you collect. Do not feed him your child.
This medicine is not approved for use by anyone under the age of 18.
How to use Imitrex?
Use Imitrex exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor may want to give your first dose of this medication in a hospital or clinic to promptly treat any serious side effects.
Follow all directions on the recipe label. Do not use this medicine in larger or smaller quantities or for longer than recommended.
Use Imitrex as soon as you notice the symptoms of a headache.
Read all patient information, drug guides and instructions provided to you. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Take one Imitrex tablet with a full glass of water. Do not share the tablet.
After taking the pill: If your headache does not completely disappear or goes away and comes back, take the second pill 2 hours after the first. Do not take more than 200 mg of Imitrex oral tablets within 24 hours. If your symptoms do not improve, consult a doctor before taking the pill.
After using the nasal spray: If your headache does not completely disappear, call your doctor before using the second Imitrex Spray. If your headache goes away and then returns, you can use a second spray if it's been at least 2 hours since the first use of the spray. Do not use more than 40 mg of Imitrex nasal spray within 24 hours. If your symptoms do not improve, consult a doctor before using more aerosols.
Do not take the nasal capsule in your mouth. It is intended for use only in disposable tips and a special inhaler that comes with this medicine.
After using one nasal capsule in each nostril: if your headache does not completely disappear or disappears and returns, you can use a second dose (1 capsule per nostril) if it lasted at least two hours from the first use of the capsule. Do not use more than two doses (4 tips) for 24 hours. If your symptoms do not improve, consult your doctor before using any new Imitrex capsules.
Call your doctor if your headache persists after using the first dose.Never use more than the recommended dose. Excessive use of migraine headache medications can worsen headaches.
Consult your doctor if you have more than four headaches in one month (30 days). Tell your doctor if this medication seems to stop working and when treating your migraine attacks.
Store Imitrex at room temperature away from moisture, heat and light.
Dosing information Imitrex
Usual Adult Migraine Dose:
Use only after a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established
Oral:
Initial dose: 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg orally, once
- If some response to the first dose, a second dose can be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose, if necessary
- Oral doses of 50 and 100 mg may provide greater relief than 25 mg; However, a dose of 100 mg can not exert a greater effect than a dose of 50 mg
Maximum dose: 200 mg per day
intranasal:
Nasal Spray: Initial dose: 5 mg, 10 mg or 20 mg in one nostril, once
- Dose 5 and 20 mg in the form of a single spray in 1 nostril; A dose of 10 mg can be administered in the form of 5 mg in each nostril
- If some response to the first dose, a second dose can be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose, if necessary
Maximum dose: 40 mg per day
Nasal capsule / powder: initial dose: 11 mg to each nostril through a disposable Xsail (R) delivery device
- If the symptoms were not resolved after 2 hours or returned after a short-term improvement, a second dose can be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose
Maximum dose: 2 doses (44 mg / 4 noses) per day
Comments:
- Treatment should begin with the first sign of a migraine headache or related symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, or photophobia; This drug should not be used to prevent migraine.
- Higher doses may have a greater effect, but also have a greater risk of adverse reactions.
- Safety of treatment on average more than 4 headaches for 30 days is not established.
Application: for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura.
See also: Dosage information (in more detail)
What happens if I skip a dose?
Since Imitrex is used as needed, it does not have a daily dosing schedule. Call your doctor right away if your symptoms do not improve after using this medication.
After taking the Imitrex tablet, you should wait two (2) hours before taking the second tablet. Do not take more than 200 mg of sumatriptan tablets within 24 hours.
After using Imitrex Nasal Spray, you should wait two (2) hours beforeusing a second spray. Do not use more than 40 mg of nasal spray sumatriptan for 24 hours.
What happens if I overdose?
Contact an emergency medical service or call the Poison help line at 1-800-222-1222. Overdose symptoms may include tremors or shaking, skin redness, breathing problems, lips or nails blue, vision problems, watery eyes or mouth, weakness, lack of coordination, or seizures (convulsions).
What should I avoid while using Imitrex?
Do not use Imitrex within 24 hours before or after using another medication for migraine headaches, including:
- Injection of sumatriptan, almotriptan (Axert), eletriptan (Relpax), frovatriptan (Frova), naratriptan (Amerge), rizatriptan (Maxalt, Maxalt-MLT) and zolmitriptan (Zomig); or
- Sports medicine - dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine.
Imitrex can worsen your thinking or reaction. Be careful if you drive or do anything that requires attention from you.
Side effects of Imitrex
Obtain immediate medical attention if you have signs of an allergic reaction: hives; labored breathing; Swelling of the face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Stop using Imitrex and call your doctor if you have:
Sudden and severe pain in the stomach and bloody diarrhea;
A severe headache, a knock on the neck or ears, severe chest pain, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat;
Attack (convulsions);
Circulatory problems - cramps in the thighs or legs, dense or heavy feeling in the legs, numbness or tingling in the legs, muscle weakness, burning pain in the feet, pale or bluish appearance to your toes;
Symptoms of a heart attack are chest pain or pressure, pain that spreads to your jaw or shoulder, nausea, sweating;
Signs of a stroke - sudden numbness or weakness (especially on one side of the body), sudden severe headache, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance; or
High levels of serotonin in the body - agitation, hallucinations, fever, fast heart rate, overactive reflexes, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, loss of coordination, fainting.
Common side effects of Imitrex may include:
Pain or dense feeling in the chest, throat, or jaw;
Pressure or heavy feeling in any part of your body;
Numbness or tingling, a feeling of heat or cold;
Dizziness, drowsiness, weakness;
Unusual or unpleasant taste in the mouth after using nasal medicine;
Burning, numbness, pain, or other irritation in the nose or throat after using nasal medicine; or
A liquid or stuffy nose after using nasal medicine.
This is not a complete list of side effects, and others may occur. Ask your doctor about side effects. You can report the side effects of the FDA at level 1800-FDA-1088.
See also: Side effects (in more detail)
What other drugs will affect Imitrex?
Using Imitrex while using certain other medicines can cause a high level of serotonin in your body, a condition called serotonin syndrome, which can be fatal.
Tell your doctor if you also use:
Medicine for the treatment of depression;
Medicine for the treatment of mental disorders;
Narcotic (opioid) drug; or
Medications to prevent nausea and vomiting.
This list is not complete. Other drugs may interact with sumatriptan, including prescription and non-prescription drugs, vitamins and plant products. Not all possible interactions are listed in this medication guide.
Where can I get more information?
Your pharmacist can provide more information about Imitrex.
Migraine, treatment
Doctors say that many women do not talk about how much they have a headache, because they do not want to complain too much. One of the problems may be that people who suffer from migraine, think that nothing will help them. They watched as their mother or grandmother suffered from migraines and think that they too must suffer. Despite significant advances in the field of pharmacology and the large number of treatment options available today, many continue to take ineffective drugs by which their older relatives struggled with migraine pain.
Usually, with migraine, patients take some kind of analgesic, lie in bed, try to overcome nausea and vomiting and protect themselves from light, sounds and smells that can cause a migraine attack or strengthen it.
Unfortunately, many people with migraine do not go to the doctor, despite the fact that today there are a lot of effective treatments.
If you have migraine attacks, it is important to build a good relationship with your doctor, as migraine is a renewable disease. To begin with, it is worthwhile to find a doctor with experience in treating migraine, who understands that migraine is a disease that arises from changes at the biological level.
We recommend that you find a doctor who will be ready to consider several treatment options, including taking prescription and non-prescription drugs, as well as lifestyle changes.
During treatment, communication can be poorly tolerated by patients for a number of reasons, but it is the key to effective treatment. About half of migraine patients stopped looking for a way to deal with headaches, in part because they were not comfortable with the treatment - statistics that could be improved through communication between the patient and the doctor.
Consultants on communication and treatment can give advice on how to enter into a dialogue with a doctor, discuss symptoms and treatment options. Many people believe that if you mark in the calendar, when there are seizures, you can learn to controlheadache. This method is especially effective when you begin to make a program of treatment with your doctor.
In the calendar of headaches, it should be noted:
when there are headaches
strength and duration of headaches
possible pathogens, including nutrition, stress, the environment, and so on.
dates of menstruation
means that did not help with pain
On the website of the American Center for Combating Headache, you can download the headache diaries: http://www.achenet.org/tools/diaries/index.asp.
The website of the American National Headache Foundation www.headaches.org also offers a wealth of useful information for people with a headache, including a headache diary:
To cope with the headache, you can also make a list of symptoms or reactions to treatment, and then evaluate the treatment that you are taking now. Assess how satisfied you are with the chosen treatment program (from "completely satisfied" and ending with "extremely dissatisfied / a" with intermediate assessments).
Evaluate the treatment according to the following criteria:
fast acting
causes the least side effects
has no sedative effect
reduces sensitivity to bright light and / or sounds
easy to use
relieves headache
It is necessary to take only once a week
exists in the form of injections
is released in the form of a nasal spray
Available in the form of tablets
has proven effectiveness
is issued in various forms
Also arrange these criteria depending on how important they are to you. Use the description (from "very important" to "not important") in order to prioritize and choose a treatment program for you.
Next, make a list of classes that you think should be neglected due to migraines. Be sure to include in this list work, relationships with family members, personal time, sleep, exercise, position in society or other activities that have to be relegated to the background because of migraine attacks.
In fact, if you record what you have to give up because of a migraine and discuss it with your doctor, then the doctor will be able to choose the most comprehensive course of treatment. Most often, doctors choose a more effective method of treatment if they receive detailed information about the symptoms.
Unfortunately, often during the consultations, little attention is paid to occupations that have to be abandoned because of the headache. In order to get more information about such activities there is, for example, a questionnaire assessing the number of classes that you have to give up because of a migraine.
Then, sign up for an appointment with a doctor, in order to discuss your specific case. Bring lists with you. Ask for a course of treatment that takes into account those factors that seem most important to you in treating headaches and that are appropriate to your lifestyle. Before you leave the doctor's office, agree on the next appointment to discuss the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the chosen treatment option.
And finally, after the beginning of the course of treatment, write down the frequency and severity of headaches in the diary, and how treatment works for you. During the next visit to the doctor, show him your records and, if necessary, ask for changes to the treatment. To choose a treatment that will help you, you need patience and making adjustments.
Feel free to leave your
comment here.
Post Now
Eliza
15/03/19
For me, this drug turned out to be a magic wand. And taking it, I realized that the earlier from the beginning of the attack to take a pill, the better the result will be. If I do not take it at the beginning of an attack, then the pain is significantly dulled, but it does not go to the end. If taken immediately, then within an hour the headache goes away. Excellent result
Jessica
11/04/19
I completely agree with you, for so many years I have been suffering from headaches, I did a CT scan, and the migraine was confirmed. My head could hurt for several days and nothing helps, even the shots. But once my husband bought Sumatriptan and now I drink mostly only him. Yes I have back pressure raises pressure, but a little, but if you compare it with migraine pain, it is nothing. Even when such severe pain is possible, you can both drink and eat, you really thought that you didn’t want to live at such moments and never again. Headache and migraine are completely different things. And each time so I pick up the pills, I silently say thank you to those who came up with ih.Ya beginning can be said to live again with these pills.
Copyright 2018 by stop-headaches-now.com. All Rights Reserved.
TOP