Sanofi and Regeneron's Dupixent gets more positive feedback from U.S. FDA - Reuters
Discover Thomson Reuters
FinancialGovernment SolutionsLegalReuters News AgencyRisk Management SolutionsTax & AccountingBlog: Answers OnInnovation @ Thomson Reuters
Directory of sites
Login
Contact
Support
Business
Markets
World
Politics
TV
More
United States
Health News
November 6, 2018 / 6:30 AM / 6 months ago
Sanofi and Regeneron's Dupixent gets more positive feedback from U.S. FDA
2 Min Read
FILE PHOTO: The logo of Sanofi is pictured during the Viva Tech start-up and technology summit in Paris, France, May 25, 2018. REUTERS/Charles Platiau/File Photo
PARIS (Reuters) - The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regulator has given more positive feedback on the Dupixent eczema treatment being developed by drugmakers Sanofi and Regeneron, the companies said on Tuesday.
Dupixent was launched in the United States in April 2017 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe eczema in adults, and the product is seen as a key sales driver for both companies.
They said the FDA had accepted for a priority, or expedited, review the license application for the use of Dupixent in adolescents aged 12 to 17 with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, where the disease was inadequately controlled with topical therapies, or when such treatment was medically inadvisable.
Last month, Dupixent also received approval from the FDA as an additional maintenance therapy in patients with two types of asthma.
Dupixent had revenues of 225 million euros ($256.8 million) in the third quarter, Sanofi reported in October, as the company also lifted its overall 2018 profit target.
Sanofi and Regeneron are developing Dupixent to treat conditions including paediatric asthma, chronic sinus infection with nasal polyps, and adolescent eczema.
($1 = 0.8760 euros)
Reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta; editing by Richard Pullin and Kirsten Donovan
Our Standards:The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
0 : 0
narrow-browser-and-phone
medium-browser-and-portrait-tablet
landscape-tablet
medium-wide-browser
wide-browser-and-larger
medium-browser-and-landscape-tablet
medium-wide-browser-and-larger
above-phone
portrait-tablet-and-above
above-portrait-tablet
landscape-tablet-and-above
landscape-tablet-and-medium-wide-browser
portrait-tablet-and-below
landscape-tablet-and-below
Apps
Newsletters
Advertise with Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2019 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.