 15 Best Over-the-Counter Antifungal Creams in 2019
BestOTCCreams
Review of The Best Over-The-Counter Creams
Best Over The Counter Creams>15 Best OTC Antifungal Creams
The 15 Best Over-the-Counter Antifungal Creams
Fungal infections are very common and annoying ailments for many people. This health problem can be faced by anyone, especially patients with a weak immune system. Fungi are tiny microorganisms present everywhere, and there are different species both outdoors and indoors. They can live on the skin for long years without causing health complications.
Certain factors cause fungi to change and overgrow, thus, leading to fungal infections. They are categorized by the fungi type causing problems, severity, and affected areas. For example, infections can affect skin folds, lips, skin surfaces, feet, and other areas if they’re humid, warm, and cause intense itching. They include jock itch, ringworm, oral thrush, meningitis, yeast infection, etc.
What is the best treatment? The good news is that special creams can help patients treat fungal infection effectively, especially if it is located on the scalp, skin, and nails. Mentax and Lotrisone are the good examples, and they’re available with doctor’s prescription. Besides, there are many remedies available OTC. Patients also use special oral drugs, shampoos, powders, and other forms to treat fungal infections based on the affected body area.
A-List of Best Creams to Treat Fingal Infections
Nizoral Cream
Lamisil Cream
Clotrimazole Cream
Lotrimin Antifungal Cream
Miconazole Nitrate Cream
Puriya Wonder Balm
Medline Remedy with Olivamine Antifungal Cream
Triple Paste AF
Canesten Cream
Monistat 7 Vaginal Antifungal Cream
Tinactin Cream
Aloe Vesta Antifungal Ointment
Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream
Carrington Antifungal Cream
Tea Tree Oil
1. Nizoral Cream
Nizoral cream contains ketoconazole as its active ingredient, and this medicine belongs to the class of drugs called azole antifungals. It works by preventing the growth of fungi, and it should be applied only to the skin. Use this tried and tested antifungal cream for skin to treat ringworm, jock itch, athlete’s foot, and some other infections. It kills fungi by interfering with cell membranes, thus, stopping them from producing ergosterol.
2. Lamisil Cream
Lamisil Cream is used to treat fungal infections of toe- and fingernails. It works by stopping the spread and growth of fungi relieving such annoying symptoms as burning, itching, scaling, and cracking. It takes only about 7 days to treat athlete’s foot, and it prevents this fungal infection from reoccurring for three months. This cream is only for external use, and it’s not suitable for babies. It contains terbinafine hydrochloride as its active ingredient.
3. Clotrimazole Cream
Clotrimazole Cream is used by patients to treat such skin infections as jock itch, athlete’s foot, ringworm, and others, including candidiasis. This ointment also treats pityriasis, the fungal infection characterized by darkening or lightening of the skin on the chest, neck, legs, or arms. It contains clotrimazole as its active ingredient, and it works by preventing the growth of fungi. It belongs to a group of meds called azole antifungals and should be used only on the skin.
4. Lotrimin Antifungal Cream
Lotrimin Antifungal Cream is another effective remedy that contains 1% of clotrimazole as its active ingredient. It’s a non-staining, greaseless, while, and fully vanishing cream that contains no sensitizing parabens in its chemical formulas. This ointment is applied to cure jock itch, ringworm, and athlete’s foot because it works by relieving such symptoms as itching, burning, cracking, discomfort, and scaling that usually accompany these fungal infections.
5. Miconazole Nitrate Cream
Miconazole Nitrate Cream is used to treat such fungal infections as ringworm, jock itch, and others, including tinea versicolor. It's an effective azole antifungal that works by stopping the growth of fungi and destroying their cell membranes. Apply this medicine only to clean and dry skin twice a day or according to the directions of your physician. The length and dosage of this treatment depend on the type of your infection. Don't use this cream longer or more than needed.
6. Puriya Wonder Balm
Puriya Wonder Balm is formulated to treat jock itch, ringworm, and other fungal infections. This excellent antifungal cream for face effectively soothes scaly, cracked, and itchy skin. It has potent anti-microbial, anti-fungal, and antiseptic properties to combat stubborn and common conditions. Apply it to stop the irritation of affected areas and prevent further spread of fungal infections to other body parts. Its use also promotes fast recovery.
7. Medline Remedy with Olivamine Antifungal Cream
Medline Remedy with Olivamine Antifungal Cream is a perfect blend of potent amino acids, antioxidants, MSM, and vitamins. Use it to effectively treat skin irritations. This over-the-counter ointment works by relieving scaling, itching, and cracking. It also nourishes the skin while being a non-sensitizing and non-allergenic product. However, it's not effective on nails and the scalp, and it's not suitable for babies.
8. Triple Paste AF
Triple Paste AF Medicated Ointment combines the healing protective barrier with the antifungal properties of miconazole nitrate 2%. The base of this premium ointment forms the occlusive protective barrier that soothes the affected skin (not on your scalp or nails) and repels moisture while relieving such annoying symptoms as scaling, itching, overall discomfort, and cracking. Apply a thin layer to dry and clean skin twice a day or based on other instructions provided by your doctor.
9. Canesten Cream
Canesten Cream is a popular and effective topical treatment for fungal nappy rash and infection available in 20 g tubes. It contains 1% clotrimazole as its active ingredient that works by relieving irritation and itching and clearing all kinds of thrush symptoms. Its use promotes a healthy and perfect pH skin balance. Apply this cream to affected areas 2-3 times a day. This antifungal treatment usually lasts for 2-4 weeks based on the type of fungal infections.
10. Monistat 7 Vaginal Antifungal Cream
Monistat 7 Vaginal Antifungal Cream contains 2% Miconazole Nitrate as its active ingredient, and it's used by women to treat vaginal yeast infections. This OTC medicine works by relieving external irritation and itching, and it’s available in 1, 3, 7 dosing forms. This cream is intended only for vaginal use, and it's not allowed to apply it if you've never had a vaginal yeast infection. You may experience a mild increase in vaginal itching, burning, and irritation when using it.
11. Tinactin Cream
Tinactin Cream contains Tolnaftate 1% as its active ingredients that stop the growth of fungi. This treatment is clinically proven to be effective for ringworm and most athlete's foot. It provides patients with a fast relief from such symptoms as burning, itching, and cracking. This product is intended only for external use. Avoid any contacts with eyes when applying this cream and stop using it if you experience irritation or notice no improvement in 1 month.
12. Aloe Vesta Antifungal Ointment
Aloe Vesta Antifungal Ointment is formulated to treat all kinds of superficial fungal infections. It's effective against ringworm, athlete’s foot, and jock itch. This medicine contains 2% Miconazole Nitrate in its skin protectant base and works by relieving such annoying symptoms as skin redness, scaling, soreness, cracking, irritation, burning, and overall discomfort. This cream is only for external use and shouldn't be used by children under 2 years old.
13. Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream
Baza Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream is an effective skin moisture barrier that contains 2% Miconazole Nitrate as its active ingredient. Patients use it to treat and relieve the symptoms of fungal infections and skin irritation. Zinc oxide is added to its chemical formula to serve as a moisture barrier, while the active ingredient stops further growth of fungi. This cream effectively treats ringworm, jock itch, candidiasis, and athlete's foot.
14. Carrington Antifungal Cream
Carrington Antifungal Cream is used to relieve skin scaling, itching, discomfort, burning, and other symptoms. Its formula contains 2% Miconazole Nitrate to fight fungi and acrylic copolymer to repel moisture and protect the skin from different moisture-related skin issues. This cream is latex-free and proven to be effective in stopping the growth of fungi.
15. Tea Tree Oil
Antifungal Tea Tree Oil helps patients treat toenail fungus, ringworm, athlete’s foot, jock itch and other fungal infections in addition to eczema, acne, and body odor. It works by promoting healthy nails, skin, and feet while soothing itching and other symptoms. Its formula is enriched with potent skin nourishing botanicals and essential oils.
No one is safe from getting a fungal infection, but there are many over-the-counter creams to prevent and treat it effectively in addition to natural remedies. Although you can order all the above-mentioned remedies without a prescription, it's advisable to consult doctors before using any of them.
What are top home remedies for fungal infections? Some of them can destroy fungi causing health problems, while others reduce the severity of symptoms. For instance, apple cider vinegar is a well-known natural remedy for any type of fungal infections. It kills the fungi causing them because of its antimicrobial properties, and the mild acidic nature prevents them from spreading while promoting fast recovery.
To treat a fungal infection, some people use unsweetened and plain yogurt with active live cultures because its probiotics can prevent the growth of fungi by producing enough lactic acid. Garlic is quite a useful antifungal agent because of its antibiotic and antibacterial properties that play an important role in the recovery process. Tea tree oil is famous for its natural antifungal compounds that kill different fungi, and its antiseptic properties stop the spread of infections to other parts of the human body.
Anthony commented 01/08/2018
Ketoconazole is the best product I have used. Easy to use and my seborrheic dermatitis has totally cleared up. Doesn't leave the skin greasy or oily.
Leave comment
Name *
E-mail *
BestOTCCreams
Review of The Best Over-The-Counter Creams
Contact Us
up