Yoga Archives - Yoga Moldova
Skip to content
Yoga Moldova
Fitness App News
Menu
About Me
Contact
Home » Yoga
Category: Yoga
All posts and pages related to Yoga.
January 2, 2019
Posing Asthma Away with Yoga – Top Positions for Quick Relief
Yoga postures have been known to help improve the mind and body and there’s great evidence that it can also help with asthma. If you understand how Yoga works and what happens during an Asthma attack, then you’ll understand the whole process.
What i s Asthma?
It’s a chronic condition marked with acute exacerbations that can be quite uncomfortable for many people. Sometimes it can turn deadly if the obstruction stays for a longer period of time. Asthma is characterized by the following:
Spasm of the airways
Excessive production of mucus
Shortness of breath
Use of accessory muscles to breath
Anxiety
Wheezing
Coughing
Asthma attacks are triggered by a lot of things depending on the person. These are common triggers that you have to watch out for.
Dust
Pollen
Cold weather/air
Getting wet with cold water
Sudden temperature changes
Offensive smells
Chemical vapors
The list can go on. Treatment is symptomatic. Asthma can’t be cured, and doctors will help you manage the symptoms. One way to help alleviate and prevent future asthma attacks is through yoga
Disclaimer: This article does not suggest that you quit any form of asthma therapy and medication abruptly. Yoga is an adjunct solution that will work well with the current treatment of the condition.
How to Use Yoga to Help with your Asthma
Yoga is a powerful practice of using posture and channeling inner energy in ways that will improve the body. It’s not just to strengthen the mind and body, it can also be used to help manage certain conditions such as Asthma. These are the many ways the practice can be used to manage any future attacks with proper yoga.
Yoga Reduces Stress
Stress is one of the triggers of Asthma. Any type of emotional stress, mental stress and more can trigger a spasm so easily. By practicing Yoga, you can clear your mind and make sure that are stronger than stress. By lowering and managing stress levels, you can cut attacks by almost half and even lower the length of time they occur.
Yoga Improves Breathing
One of the great benefits of Yoga is the slow but powerful breathing pattern. It can help with the following:
Strengthen your diaphragm that will allow you to take in and expel more air
Help stretch and enlarge your airways, so any attack will last shorter or won’t affect you as much
Improve tissue perfusion so your body won’t starve immediately when oxygen is reduced due to an attack
A normal and practiced breathing pattern can help during an attack so you won’t drive yourself into a cycle of increasing stress
Know Your Yoga Instructor
While we encourage you to incorporate Yoga into managing Asthma, it’s also important for you to learn more about yoga instructors and their qualifications. There are fake instructors the same way there are fake medicines. The wrong position and technique can do more harm than good. Thankfully, there are international, national and local communities that help certify Yoga. Learn and practice with only someone who is certified.
Use technology to stay healthy. Read more articles like this in Yoga Moldova, your best source of fitness in the internet jungle.
by Lindsay Wright
Yoga
attacks with proper yoga
benefits of Yoga
November 27, 2018
Never Feel Threatened by Asthma Anymore with These Yoga Poses for Better Breathing
With the focus on breathing that yoga has, everyone who has had experience with it will surely say its benefits include reducing the symptoms of asthma. And indeed many kinds of research have been done to establish the connection between these two. There is the number of evidence that show some yoga poses for better breathing are quite effective.
Let us find out what these are and practice it in our lives so we will never feel worried and manage ourselves when asthma strikes again.
Yoga Poses and Its Effect on Asthma
Can yoga help with asthma? While there is no concrete answer to this question, many who practice yoga and exercise their inhalation and exhalation techniques, do find relief for their airway problems. But more specifically, this question can be answered by the results of recent studies done to find out what benefits yoga has to asthma patients.
There is moderate evidence that yoga improves the overall quality of life in people with asthma.
Unfortunately, there is not enough evidence that to prove that yoga can improve lung function and reduce the need for medication.
However, there are certain yoga poses, such as the “pranayama”, that helps release suppressed emotion, reduce anxiety and self-consciousness, and relax muscle tension. All these can help asthma patients breathe better.
Meditation is also known to help people with asthma improve their airways and respiratory muscles.
All these results somehow show how yoga affects people with asthma. While there is no significant evidence showing how yoga reduces the incidence of the condition. The need for medications, management of it can be achieved with certain yoga poses.
And how do you do yoga for asthma? Specifically, the pranayama pose?
Pranayama is the formal practice of controlling the breath. Some of the poses in this practice include the natural breath, the sahita pranayama, and the bhramari.
With the natural breath, you simply breathe in and notice thoughts as they arise. Then, you breathe out and notice thoughts as they dissipate.
The sahita pranayama lets you practice holding your breath until you settle into stillness. But not to the point of discomfort.
The bhramari, on the other hand, creates homeostasis of the mind and body by inhaling. Through the nostrils and exhaling while producing the buzzing sound of the bee.
These are just a few practices in yoga that can help you achieve better breathing.
If you want to learn more about it and achieve peace, visit Yoga Maldova, your fitness, and yoga blog.
by Lindsay Wright
Yoga
Can yoga help with asthma
yoga for asthma
yoga poses for better breathing
November 9, 2018
Yoga for Beginners: Your Best Guide
This article is an exhaustive yoga for beginners guide that tries to answer the majority of your inquiries concerning yoga, including everything that you have to know before doing your first novice yoga exercise. Before the finish of this article, you will find out about what yoga is, the means by which to decide if yoga is for you, what to wear, what gear you require, how regularly to do it, and what style to decide for your five stars.
What do I require for my first Beginner Yoga Class?
Yoga is done in exposed feet on a yoga mat. In case you will buy anything, you should purchase a yoga mat. Most studios give mats to free or rental, however, they are frequently less expensive plastic mats and you will probably feel better on a mat that you picked yourself.
Indeed, even the most fundamental yoga extends require garments that can stretch or move, so wear the most agreeable outfit that enables you to move around effortlessly. Wear what makes you feel better. In case you’re completing a delicate, slower class at that point dress warm (sweatpants, long sleeve shirt) and if it’s a more thorough class wear shorts and a shirt or a tank top.
Class Online
A few classes utilize extra hardware or props, for example, ties, squares, reinforces, covers and seats. You don’t have to buy any of these to start doing yoga. In case you will go to a class at a studio they will give everything that you require. In any case, in case you’re completing a class online, you will require a yoga mat and you will need to verify whether the extra gear is required.
On the off chance that it is, there are simple approaches to supplant normal yoga props. For instance, you can utilize a belt or rope rather than a tie. On the off chance that reinforcing is required, you can look at this short video on the most proficient method to make a support at home. The educators on DoYogaWithMe as often as possible prescribe options for the individuals who don’t claim the prop that is required in that specific class.
How would I know whether yoga is for me and why should I do yoga?
Yoga is available for everybody, regardless of what you resemble, how old you are, the manner by which you dress, the amount you gauge, what you improve the situation a living, where you live or what religion you practice. Yoga is not the slightest bit select. It’s conceivable that you have a specific condition or ongoing damage that makes it trying or unsafe to do particular kinds of yoga, particular postures or breathing systems, however, there will probably be sheltered choices that an accomplished yoga educator can assist you with.
There are such a large number of advantages of doing yoga for beginners:
enhance and keep up the wellbeing of muscles, joints, and organs
keep your mind sound
show signs of improvement night’s rest
enhance execution and anticipate wounds in games
speed recuperation from preparing
avert conditions, for example, diabetes, coronary illness, and auto-save issue
back off the negative impacts of an office work
furthermore, increment your feeling of joy and prosperity.
It’s a training that is both physical exercise, enhancing conditioning, stamina, act, quality, equalization and adaptability, and in addition a control that causes you de-stretch, unwind, feel more beneficial and more vigorous. The most ideal approach to know whether yoga is for you is to try it out.
Shouldn’t something be said about Yoga and Weight Loss?
Is yoga for weight loss? Yoga is certifiably not a decent cardio exercise, so it is for the most part, not a viable method to get more fit. In any case, it is an entire body exercise that can make you buckle down, sweat and, at times, exhaust yourself. Its quality is in conditioning the body through testing physical exercise and enhancing in general wellbeing through expanded adaptability, body mindfulness, and unwinding.
How would I know which style of yoga to do first?
On the off chance that you have never done yoga, the best place to start for a great many people is with an apprentice hatha yoga class. Hatha yoga, for the most part, invests more energy in physical stances, instead of mantra, pranayama, and contemplation, and moves ease sufficiently back for anybody to guard up while focussing more on the arrangement, however, the majority of the above relies upon the educator.
What would it be advisable for me to expect from a studio class?
Studio classes are somewhere in the range of 45 minutes to 2 hours long. The class size can be 2 to 100 understudies, contingent upon the studio. Most studios enable anybody to drop in on a class whenever. Though a few classes necessitate that you enroll and pay for a particular length previously.
Contingent upon the class measure, your educator might have the capacity to give you singular direction. Adjust the postures to your necessities, especially if your teacher is very qualified and experienced. In the event that you experience issues doing certain stances, you can be demonstrated an option. In bigger class sizes (20+), it’s harder to give singular consideration. Experienced teachers may likewise incorporate the advantages of a significant number of the stances you are doing in class.
How frequently would it be advisable for me to do yoga?
In case you’re ready to rehearse yoga or yoga stretching 3 times or more for each week, you will probably observe noteworthy enhancements in territories. Example, adaptability, the joint scope of movement, quality, balance, capacity to oversee pressure, nature of rest, bliss and general prosperity. Everybody’s bodies are extraordinary, so this obviously is relative.
The Yoga Mindset
Yoga has a purpose of encouraging us to connect our bodies. Life experience in a more meaningful way through experiencing true relaxation and a calm mind. A rewarding experience when one achieve self-understanding, physical and emotional release and total well being. Please visit a site.
by Lindsay Wright
Yoga
yoga for beginners
yoga for weight loss
yoga stretching
Posts navigation
Older posts
Built with Make. Your friendly WordPress page builder theme.
RSS
Skip to toolbar
About WordPress
WordPress.org
Documentation
Support Forums
Feedback
Log In
Search