Weekly Health Update — Highly Rated By Patients! - Oakland Spine and Physical Therapy
Request an Appointment
(201) 651-9100
Our Services
Chiropractic Care
Physical Therapy and Rehab Center
The Butler Spine Program
Deep Tissue Laser Therapy
Acupuncture
Massage Therapy
Conditions We Treat
About Us
Staff by Department
Staff by Location
News / Blog
Patient Testimonials
Sign up For Our Newsletter
Locations
Oakland, NJ
Wayne, NJ
Fair Lawn, NJ
New Patient Information
Feedback
Dr. Butler’s Book
Career
(201) 651-9100
Oakland Spine News
Weekly Health Update — Highly Rated By Patients!
December 29, 2014
Chiropractic: Highly Rated By Patients!
According to the American Chiropractic Association, “Chiropractic physicians are the highest-rated healthcare practitioners for low-back pain treatments with their patient-centered, whole-person approach that provides greater interaction and communication for appropriate diagnosis and developing more cost-effective treatment planning.”
American Chiropractic Association, June 2014
Mental Attitude: People Want Leaders to Look Healthy.
Dutch researchers say that it is more important for potential business or political leaders to look healthy than to appear intelligent. Their statement is based on the response of 148 adults who were asked to choose a new CEO by looking at photos of individuals made to look more or less intelligent or more or less healthy. The researchers found that participants chose a healthier look 69% of the time. Lead author Dr. Brian Spisak adds, “Here we show that it always pays for aspiring leaders to look healthy, which explains why politicians and executives often put great effort, time, and money in their appearance.”
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, November 2014
Health Alert: COX-2 Inhibitors Associated with Increased Risk of Death from Stroke.
Some commonly prescribed drugs for arthritis and pain may increase a patient’s risk of dying from a stroke. According to a new study, users of COX-2 inhibitors are 19% more likely to die after a stroke when compared with non-users. COX-2 inhibitors include medications such as diclofenac, etodolac, nabumetone, meloxicam, celecoxib, and rofecoxib. Study author Dr. Morten Schmidt adds, “While newer versions of these COX-2 inhibitor drugs have been pulled off shelves, older ones are still frequently prescribed. Our study provides further important evidence solidifying the risks of certain arthritic pain relievers and death from stroke.”
Neurology, November 2014
Diet: Gluten May Not Be the Only Culprit in Celiac Disease.
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley and is known to cause health problems in individuals with celiac disease. New research suggests that some individuals with celiac disease also react to non-gluten proteins. The authors of the study note that the role of non-gluten proteins in celiac disease has been largely ignored and further research is needed.
Journal of Proteome Research, November 2014
Exercise: Exercise May Help Recovering Methamphetamine Addicts.
An animal study conducted by scientists at the Scripps Research Institute has found that exercise appears to reduce drug-seeking behavior in rats during methamphetamine withdrawal.
Brain Structure and Function, October 2014
Wellness/Prevention: Vitamin D Deficiency Associated with Increased Risk of Asthma Attacks.
Adults who are vitamin D deficient and suffer from asthma are 25% more likely to experience an asthma attack than asthmatics with normal vitamin D levels, suggests research from Tel Aviv University in Israel. Study author Dr. Ronit Confino-Cohen explains, “Our results add more evidence to the link between vitamin D and asthma, suggesting beneficial effects of vitamin D on asthma exacerbations. We expect that further prospective studies will support our results. In the meantime, our results support a recommendation for screening of vitamin D levels in the subgroup of asthma patients who experience recurrent exacerbations. In those with vitamin D deficiency, supplementation may be necessary.”
Allergy, October 2014
Latest News from OSPT
Diverse Techniques With Unique Results
Seek Joint Pain Treatment Now
Drugs & Surgery Are Not A Quick Fix
Screen Time to Back Pain
One Stop for Chiropractic & PT Care
Chiropractic Care & Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
You Can Avoid a Health Emergency
Is Surgery Your Best Option?
Don’t wait another minute to start living your healthiest, most authentic life.
Call today! (201) 651-9100
Our Services
Chiropractic Care
Physical Therapy and Rehab Center
The Butler Spine Program
Deep Tissue Laser Therapy
Acupuncture
Massage Therapy
Our Locations
Oakland, NJ
340 Ramapo Valley Road(201) 651-9100
Wayne, NJ
1255 Hamburg Turnpike(973) 310-3800
Fair Lawn, NJ
20-19 Fair Lawn Avenue(201) 651-9100
Follow Us Online
Recent Tweets
Are you looking for an amazing career opportunity to join the best Physical Therapy team in town? OSPT IS NOW EXPAN… https://t.co/rg4urYcIum
Feb 21, 2019 - 9:30am
Sound Familiar? Oakland Spine and Physical Therapy can help! We utilize all the therapies we have under one roof to… https://t.co/ZPiRIyuPd3
Feb 21, 2019 - 9:30am
Join Our Email List
Stay up-to-date with the latest news and offers from Oakland Spine and Physical Therapy.
* To qualify for same day guarantee, please call and mention our guarantee when requesting a same day appointment. Call must be received before 11am on normal days of operation. Offer may depend on type of care and insurance verification.
© Copyright 2019 Oakland Spine & Physical Therapy, All Rights Reserved.