The Flu and Me | Find Out Why: Fat, Cholesterol, Salt are Good For You
Skip to content
Follow:
RSS
Twitter
Find Out Why: Fat, Cholesterol, Salt are Good For You
A fine WordPress.com site
Home
About and What Happened to Me?
Health Benefits Of Coconut Oil
Reference Books and Links
Allopathic Medicine
Alternate Medicine
Carbohydrate
Cholesterol
Corruption
Diet
Digestion
Drinks/water/Sports/Juice
Farmers
Government
Holistic / Naturopathic
Human Body
Illness
Lequines
Lequines, Nuts, Seeds and Spices
Medications/Drugs
Minerals
Oils and Fats
Personal Care
antibiotic resistand
Political Correct
Propaganda
Protein
Salt (all Forms)
Seeds and Spices
Spices and Herbs
Sugar all forms
Supplement
Supplement, Vitamins, Minerals
Uncategorized
Vitamins
Yearly Site Stats
Tags
Aladdin's Lamp, Anise, Antihistamines, aspirin, BETI-POT, Colloidal Silver, COPD, de-mucus herbs, demulcent, expectorant, Garlic, healing energy, Himalayan, Hippocrates, HOME REMEDIES, HOMEOPATHIC, Ice, Inhailer, Khewra Salt Mines, laryngitis, Licorice Root, Marshmallow Root, mucus, Mucus Membrans, Mulen Leaf, pH balance, Sea Salt, Short of Breath, Sinuses, Slippery Elm, steam inhalation, Thyroid, toxins, Water, Wild Cherry, Willow Bark
The Flu and Me
October 10, 2018
The Flu and Me
By Joan L. McDaniel October 10.2018
One Day I woke Up with the Flu
For the past 6 years I have taken the responsibility of my own health. I have spent that time with the following inspiration;
“Hippocrates is considered to be the founder of medicine as a “rational science.” said the famous quote, “Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food”. I have successfully regained my health without my old medication and using good old American Common Sense and Homeopathic tradition teachings. I have spent most of the time researching the Internet and other modern alternate medicine doctors writings.
My body and I have been on quite a journey. I have also seen the body’s defense system at work and its powerful healing energy.
It was early in the spring of 2016 about 2 1/2 years ago, I woke up with chills and a fever. For someone who never had a temperature above 97.7 because of a under-active thyroid condition, I was a little worried. This time I’m sick and I don’t use doctors I said. Two days ago I had a sore throat which turned into laryngitis. I felt fine and went to work. Unfortunately my replacement called in and I had to work a double. By time I got off I grabbed a bite and fell into bed. Only to wake up with fever of 102.2 and a very dry cough and speaking in a whisper. I was coughing so much it began to hurt.
I broke the fever by taking the original form of Aspirin (Willow Bark). First Wonder Drug Came From a Tree. I referenced my herbal books, wrote down a list of herbs. I had some of them on hand and had to go get the others, I could speak a little better, had a little more energy, and was hungry. Better but I still had the cough. A dry hacking cough which made everything else hurt.
I went to my local Irish Pub but was afraid to stay because all I could do is cough that includes doing much talking. I ordered something to go and the waitress gave me a glass of ice water to sip on. As I sat there I noticed the more water I drank the less I coughed. I felt so good I ate the meal there.
I left the restaurant with a glass of ice in a paper cup, went to the health food store to get the herbs then back home and bed.
I was hopping to find a better solution than water. It was working but I had to get back to work in a few days and I didn’t feel very well.
I had been diagnosed with my original illness in 2012 with COPD so my breathing was compromised with the years of smoking. What mucus I could cough up was as thick as cement. It looked like the image on the top.
What is COPD?
“According to modern medicine Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is an umbrella term used to describe progressive lung diseases including emphysema, chronic bronchitis, and refractory (non-reversible) asthma. This disease is characterized by increasing breathlessness.
COPD is a progressive and (currently) incurable disease, but with the right diagnosis and treatment, there are many things you can do to manage your COPD and breathe better. People can live for many years with COPD and enjoy life.”
Did I Finally Meet My Match?
This flu/cold (or whatever) was bad. I was worried that I had finally found my match and would have to resort to calling the doctor with my tail between my legs and demand an antibiotic. I as a nurse, had been lead to believe over the past 35 years to expect instant magic. Only one problem, I didn’t have a doctor anymore, and ER would gladly bill me big money for one, and all the Flu, cold and COPD Big Parma used as standard medicines. I had to keep searching.
Homeopathic, or Home Remedies for the Cold or Flu
We all have or have heard of remedies for the common cold and this isn’t to add to that. This article is about how I found to thin mucus to help cough out the toxins and return to health.
What is Mucus?
It finally dawned on me, my problem was thick gooey mucus that had grown to be as hard as rocks.
Increased mucus production is the body’s way of flushing out irritants, and toxins out of the body. The mucus doesn’t necessary increase. Instead it becomes thicker, more annoying, and more adhesive. The purpose is to attract the toxin, attach it to the thickened mucus and make it annoying so you will cough and sneeze to expel it out.
You need mucus, it lines and protects the body’s cavities opened to the outside and prevents irritation to the cavity. It serves as a filter for air on inhalation.
You normally don’t even know you have mucus until you have caught a cold. Depending on how bad the cold is, you not only know about mucus it will become a major problem dealing with it. Like how to not have to wear pull-ups. It is tough being old.
Spit is produced by the saliva glands in the throat at the first approach to food. It is the first step in digestion. Mucus is thicker and slim. When you spit saliva, it does not contain mucus. Mucus is thicker, heavier and cannot be coughed up in its clear state.
Where is Mucus
You have mucus from inside your head to your anus. Mucus in your head, lungs, mouth, nose, sinuses, throat, intestines, and inside most organs. Mucus helps humidity the air we breathe and to prevent irritation to the cavity. It serves as a filter for air on inhalation, and to keep things moving in the tubes. You need mucus.
This Article isn’t A How To Or About A Cure
This article isn’t a how to: How to cure any illness. How to use herbal medicine vs Modern medicine. It is a story of what I learned finding out how to thin mucus to help my body recover from inflammation by using Coughing, sneezing and other methods of expelling the toxin from the body. I don’t recommend any one or any thing except maybe a neti-pot. This article isn’t about how to cure anything. The
Water
My head wasn’t very clear yet and my thinking a little foggy. I knew the importance of water and mucus. Without water you are considered dehydrated and the mucus will be hard and dry. The human body needs water especially a head full of mucus in the form of rocks. I increased my water intake and I felt cooled, my throat felt better, and the cough became more productive. But this wasn’t enough, the water was helping but I needed to do something more and I did not want to return to immune system destructive antibiotics. Antibiotics kill all bacteria both the good and the bad.
What I needed, was a better way to help thin the mucus and I hadn’t found it yet. My body isn’t very good at cough up rocks.
By the way the common cold is a virus and antibiotics do not do anything against a virus. Anti fungal natural remedies can work better. See My definitions.
Then I found the Neti-Pot
Driven with the deep concern to learn the truth I couldn’t think of anything else. Eat, work, I think I drove everyone around me crazy. Thanking the Gods around me for the Internet, I kept researching and reading. I was driven with a madness of turning any stone I found in my way.
I first heard of an inhaler that was filled with Sea Salt and one filled with Eucalyptus oil. Use it to help receive these herbs where they were most needed – in the lungs. Then I found the neti-pot. I could use it to do the same thing using warm water in the nose. This little Aladdin’s lamp even helped my COPD. I may have times after exercise in feeling Short of Breath (SOB). But with the ability to reduce or thin mucus I am still going and going. See my article What does pH Balance and the “Energizer Bunny” have in Common?
I am including pictures showing the body’s mucus cavities. I needed it to understand what I was feeling and why. I have always been able to understand better with pictures. I approach the problem by looking for suggestions and applying ideas and see what works. I would know it works because I was the object and could feel the improvement or set back or whatever.
I used the Hunt and Peck and flying by the seat of my pants as the old saying goes.
Mucus Membrans
To manage an illness you need to better understand how your body works and what you can do to help it.
These following pictures show what we call body cavities that are lined with Mucus Membranes
Note the Colon is lined with mucus but is not shown
https://www.studyblue.com/notes/note/n/chapter-4-tissue-the-living-fabric-/deck/5279300
Mucus membranes
Sinuses
Frontal picture
Your body still tries to rid itself of the toxins by changing the character of the mucus. It thickens and becomes very irritating. This results in it becoming very itchy and the skin around it very red. It may even start to break out. It wants you to feel it and maybe you’ll do something to help.
According to WebMd, It generally takes a bad cold, or contact with something irritating — like a plate of nuclear-hot Buffalo wings — to throw your body’s mucus production into overdrive.
For instance, during an allergic response to an offending trigger, such as pollen or ragweed, mast cells in your body squeeze out a substance called histamine, which triggers sneezing, itching, and nasal stuffiness. The tissue of the mucus membranes starts leaking fluid, and your nose begins to run. Note the body will stop producing these things when the toxin and mucus plug is gone.
What Color is Mucus?
Mucus can be clear, brown, green, Pink, Red-Colored or White. Coughing up yellow or green mucus usually means inflammation or infection that has been isolated. Mucus collects foreign material and when there is an infection, mucus changes color to yellow or even green as a result of trapped bacteria, fungus or other toxin. This is a result of WBC and the Immune Systems function. This will create what is called congestion. Mucus thickens sending a signal to the body to cough and expel out the toxin. Mucus can also be White which indicates a dry cough without an infection. Any color like Pink, Pink Red or Brown indicates the coughing is hard and has cause a slight drama. Try to drink more water.
Garlic, Water, Licorice Root, Marshmallow Root, Mullen leaf, Slippery Elm, other de-mucus herbs and a Neti-Pot I used to thin my mucus and get well
I used the above and doubled up on the Garlic and Vitamin C. Taking Garlic raw as my article Garlic Ancient and Powerful said. I used the most of the herbs taken as a tea. The Teas were effective, I also took them in capsule form.
I did use guaifenesin an over the counter medicine only to feel the toxins like red dye and fructose corn syrup. I would have to make my own. I found Wild Cherry Syrup. In about a week, my mucus was almost back to thin and clear.
The Neti-Pot Became Extremely Helpful
It took a little while to get the hang of it but I got it. I was driven with the deep concern to learn the truth I couldn’t think of anything else. Eat, work, I think I drove everyone around me nuts. I could see it in their faces “There she goes again” I Thank the Gods around me for the Internet, I kept researching and reading. The Internet never said “No” or I’m busy or “You Again?” I was driven with a madness of turning over any stone I found in my way.
Neti Pot Has Been Used Since the Ancient Times
Is an alternative of saline mouth, throat and nasal irrigation to remove mucus with nasal irrigation. The mucus is holding toxins and irritants causing inflammation as part of the immune system. The mucus acts like glue and toxins adhere to it rather than circulate freely in the Blood causes more serious illness.
The concept of getting rid of irritants by thinning mucus originated with our ancestors. The Ayurvedic natural medical tradition used a “jala net” which is now called a Neti Pot is used
to gently flush away irritants that cause these symptoms and infections. Note one method of Ayurvedic is “Be Gentle”. Neti-Pot is very effective and non-dependent on modern Big Rx and Big Pharma with its antibiotics, antihistamines, steroid nasal sprays, or surgical interventions which rarely work and do little to treat the underlying cause or even attempt to attempt a cure. Using the Neti pot to pour the mixture into one nostril then the other to cleanse the nasal passages. This procedure will also help the common cold.
What type of salt?
I found Himalayan Salt to be very useful during my recovery of 6 years ago. Himalayan sea salt contains 84 minerals but it doesn’t contain Iodine which is recommended for use in gargling and the Neti-Pot.
Himalayan salt is mined from the Khewra Salt Mines in Pakistan, situated at the foothills of the Himalayas. It is the second-largest salt mine in the world, and official records of the Khewra mine date back to the 13th century. The salt obtained from Khewra includes transparent, white, pink, red and dark red salts. Today the mine includes nearly 25 miles of tunnels stretched across 11 levels, and runs almost a half mile into the mountains.
How to Use Neti Pot Videos
Neti Pot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qM2m95wtx-A
https://youtu.be/qM2m95wtx-A
This Video Warning shows spit up thick mucus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3ENzfLpG3U&frags=pl%2Cwn
Modern Medicines approach to the Common Cold. How Can I Get Rid of Mucus?
Modern Medicine treats seasonal allergies, hay fever, chronic sinusitis, nasal inflammation, coughs, colds, and other nasal or sinus inflammation. In fact, there is a famous quote saying, “there isn’t a cure for the common cold.”
According to Web-MD, ”People with chronic sinus problems who are constantly blowing their noses understandably want the goo gone. Modern medicine treats it as an allergy with antihistamines, and bacterial infections with antibiotics. They rarely use antifungal. Steroids, allergy shots are also used.
See Terms for definitions
Some Natural Remedies for Coughs and Thinning Mucus
I did a great deal of research and compiled a list of Natural Remedies available many of which I successfully used. In the future, when you’re feeling better you need to look into strengthening you immune system: Eliminate or limit sugars and processed foods from your diet. There are many natropathic or homeopathic nutritional diets one is Dr. Mercola’s nutrition plan and his book Take Control of Your Health.
Methods I used:
Gargle, Herbs in Capsules, Neti pot cleansing, Steaming, drinking certain herbal Teas, herbal teas, herbal oils to clear up the mucus overload.
But first I included a section of definitions for further clarity.
Terms used==================
Antihistamines block or limit the action of histamines, those substances triggered by allergic reactions that cause the tissue in the nose to swell up and release more, thinner mucus (a runny nose). The main side effect of older antihistamines is drowsiness. They also can cause dry mouth, dizziness, and headache.
Capsules – There are many natural remedies available in capsule form and many manufactures. You can also make your own that way you know what herb and only what herb is in it. Capsule making machines available read my article Using a capsule making machine. Manufacturing has greatly improved and have paid attention to the demand for a pure product. If you do buy your capsules READ THE LABELS and see what’s in it. I don’t trust anyone. But buying an herb in capsule form certainly is better than not having the herb at all.
Common Cold – It is one of the 200 types of viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract that primarily affects the nose (rhino) The most common one is called the rhinovirus. It is also call influence. A cold affects larynx, nose, throat, and sinuses. Signs and symptoms include coughing, headache, fatigue, fever, muscle aches, runny nose, sore throat, and sneezing.
Decoction – (Latin for ‘boil down’) The liquid resulting from concentrating the essence of a substance like a tea or plant roots by heating or boiling, especially a medicinal preparation made from a plant.
decongestants – cause the blood vessels in the lining of the nose to narrow, reducing blood flow to the area, so you’re less congested and you produce less mucus. Decongestants don’t work with thick mucus they just dry you out more. I often call it a cement wall. So you take more decongestants and get more congested. You may very well feel some of the decongestants side effects which include dizziness, high blood pressure, and nervousness. Used in Modern Medicine. They never work for me.
demulcent – substance that lubricates, relieves and lines the irritated mucous membranes. It is a healthy antioxidant and mucilaginous or an adhesive solution which allows it to protect the membranes lining
Expectorant – a medicine that thins mucus, phlegm and/or sputum and makes it easier for the body to secret. It is used especially to treat coughs. Once the mucus is thinner, the body can easily expel it by its normal exits. Note an expectorant also needs increased water intake
You can also thin out the mucus with guaifenesin, a type of medicine called an expectorant.
Common Flu – According to the CDC, “No one seems to know the difference from the common cold vs the common flu. They are caused by different viruses but with very similar symptoms. In general, the flu is considered worse than a cold. I guess i’d call it a serious cold. Symptoms are more intense and worst than the common cold.
Essential oils – Many herbs can be applied topically using carrier oils, and essential oils or by mixing a few drops with water. Carrier oils are aloe vera, coconut oil, castor oil, mustard olive, or others. The essential oils are Calendula Oil, Lavender Oil, Lemon grass oil, and Tea Tree Oil. By mixing a small amount of concentrated Essential oil like Lemongrass apply a few drops to Calendula oil and a larger amount of something like Coconut Oil.
Sinus – a recess, cavity, or channel, such as one in bone or a dilated channel for venous blood. An abnormal channel or fistula, permitting escape of toxins in mucus or pus.
Steaming
Steam inhalation
An excellent home remedy to loosen throat mucus and clear your nasal passage is steam inhalation. The benefits of using steam to get rid of too much mucus in the throat can be boosted by adding essential oils that reduce inflammation, kill germs, and relieve congestion.
For example, tea tree oil has antimicrobial compounds that can help treat throat and upper respiratory tract infections. Also menthol (peppermint) oil is well-known for its ability to relieve congestion and treat the symptoms of sinus infections and asthma.
All you need to do is add a few drops of tea tree oil or menthol oil to a large bowl of boiling water. Place you head over the bowl and cover your head with a towel. Breathe deeply for 10 minutes to allow the steam and essential oils clear your airways and get rid of mucus. Repeat the steam inhalation 2-3 times a day until your symptoms clear and you no longer have any infection in your airways. Don’t burn yourself.
Plant based Treatments
Plants came to this Earth before we did. If it hadn’t been for their photosynthesis, and converting the sun’s light to energy, we would be around at all. They have their own immune system, just like we do and have over time developed many ways to handle toxins including fungus and Mold overgrowth. Using natures plant growth as treatments makes a great deal of sense.
Virus – Are infectious agent that can only thrive and reproduce inside the host body. It is smaller than bacteria.
End Definitions=====================
Useful Herb’s for thinning mucus
Anise, Aimalayan, Coltsfoot, Eucalyptus, Echinacea, Honey, Licorice Root Marshmallow Root, Mullein, Peppermint, Salt Water, Slippery Elm Root, and Thyme.
Once I finally understood the power of the herbs in tea form, I realized I had found what I was looking for. It works and whenever I have used them again they still work.
The herbs I call anti-mucus performs what modern medicine calls an expectorant which makes the mucus easier to cough up.
Herbs used for Tea
There is a long list of herbs, oils, and products all completely from the World of Nature and her wonders. I have found these teas both concentrated and regular to be of extreme help. In fact I have been using them not only to get rid of my last cold I had about 2 1/2 years ago and never saw again. But they have been the center of my detoxing with amazing results. I used What I call anti-mucus capsules which I made myself and anti-mucus teas these were easier for clearing mucus of the respiratory tract. The Decoction is very concentrated I am using that form more for detoxing than for a cold.
Making Teas
Tea Making Tips
I cannot stress the importance of covering your tea while it steeps. Not only does it keep it piping hot, it traps all the steam and any of the volatile oils in the steam (and their benefits) in the cup for you to inhale when you uncover it.
Need instructions on how to make tea’s
The one I recommend I call anti mucus tea for short.
Mucus Thinning Tea *
1/3 Tablespoon chopped licorice (leaf or root)
1/3 Tablespoon chopped slippery elm bark
1/3 Tablespoon chopped marshmallow root
1 cup water
Directions:
To make the tea, take all 3 herbs and steep this mixture in hot water until it becomes tea strength
Drink 3-6 cups a day for 1 – 2 months, or as needed for maintenance.
I also buy the herbs in powdered form and combine it into capsules and take them often.
* John Douillard from LifeSpa including his book Eat Wheat
Remember to Increase your intake of Natural Vitamin C. The best form is fresh citrus like an orange, and lemon.
Other Herbs
Here are other herbs. You can make concentrated or normal 1 cup teas. Concentrated teas take up to 4 cups with the loose tea and boil down to 1 cup. It is strained in a mental filter for a stronger for of tea.
Cough syrups or lozenges like Wild Cherry Syrup, Peppermint, Slippery Elm are also made and very effective
Thayer’s Slippery Elm Lozenges, Wild Cherry inner bark lozenges or syrup and many other herbs are available.
Useful Expectorant and Demulcent Herbs
http://www.natural-homeremedies.com/homeremedies_cough.htm
homeremedies.com
Anise
Anise in the treatment of respiratory conditions such as cough, bronchitis and asthma. Anise contains a compound called anethole, which is very effective in boosting the health of the bronchial cells. It is a powerful expectorant and is able to bring about the expulsion of accumulated mucous from the respiratory tract. Anise is also a very powerful anti-spasmodic agent. However, medical experts recommend that you avoid making use of this herb if you are already consuming anticoagulant medicines as this can result in adverse side effects. You must also make sure to consult your doctor regarding the correct dosage of this herb. I have not used this herb.
Eucalyptus – Eucalyptus Oil is mainly used for healing mucus membranes. It is also useful for body pains, colds, fever, and sinus congestion. You can apply a drop on a cotton ball and sniff it several times a day. You can add it to water and use in a nebulizer or in steam therapy or in bath water.
Honey – is very effective except you can’t find real honey. Most of what you find in the store is FAKE hear that Fake. You can use up to 1 Teaspoon of honey a day if you get it from the Farmer who maintains the actual bee hive.
Garlic
Garlic has strong antibacterial and antiseptic properties that make
Garlic – Eat it Raw and Eat it Daily
Garlic is antibacterial, antibiotic, anticancer, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antioxidant, antiviral, anti-yeast, lowers blood pressure, thins blood, restores bowel ecology, prevents platelet clumping, helps detox the cells, helps digestion, boost immune system and helps fight many diseases, fights food poising bacteria, help insulin resistance and diabetes, once eaten repeals mosquitos, Cardiac protection from heart disease, brings oxygen to the cells or oxidizes the cells. It has been called “Russian Penicillin” because it is so effective with wounds and skin disorders.
Chopping and Crushing Garlic activates its healthy and powerful enzymes. The enzyme is called allicin a sulfur-containing molecule that gives garlic’s its pungent smell. When preparing garlic wait at least 5 minutes after crushing or cutting to allow allicin to form and mix with oxygen.
Please note to get the full power of Garlic DO NOT COOK IT use it raw. Research has found heating garlic all health benefits is lost. Cut a clove of garlic into small pieces that can be swallowed. Let it sit for 5 to 10 minutes to bring out its health-promoting benefits. You can mix it with juice or liquid but swallow them whole. The ancients added garlic to their wine. You can also add crushed or chopped garlic at the end of your foods cooking process. DO NOT CHEW Raw — Once chewed garlic can turn HOT – HOT !! Once down it isn’t too hot to handle. Not all garlic is hot but YOU NEVER KNOW.
Licorice Root –
Marshmallow Root
Mullein
Mullein is an herb that possesses expectorant and suppressant properties, thereby making it effective in the treatment of chronic cough as well as sore throat. Mullein is usually consumed in the form of tea to treat chronic coughs. You can easily purchase mullein tea from any health store. In the herbal world Mullein grows wild along local highways and to extreme length like 15 feet. It is considered a very large weed. Just soak the leaves in a
large mason jar in hot water over night. Cool, stain and drink in the morning. Note: when handling Mullein you might want to wear a nasal mask. The left over leaves cling to everything – no wonder it softens things so well.
Peppermint – contains menthol, which works as a decongestants. Which loosens the mucus or phlegm present in the throat or lungs.
Salt – is used to gargle, and as use as a nasal saline rinse. It is a demulcent in that it helps your system expel or cough up the thick colored mucus. Salt also acts as an antimicrobial agent and does help reduce the thickness of the mucus, but is not considered a demulcent agent.
Colloidal Silver – is a natural substance made by suspending microscopic particles of silver in liquid. It has been used throughout history; it prevents the growth of algae, bacteria and other unwanted organism in additional to its many medicinal uses. It has been replaced with chemical antibiotics, however it is still given to newborns to prevent eye infection during childbirth and used in hospitals and other treatment centers for cuts and burns.
Pathogens do not become resistant to silver as they do with man made chemical antibiotics. According to records, “There is no known disease-causing organism that can live in the presence of even minute traces of simple metallic silver.”
From our past our eating utensils were made of pure silver and silver coated, as a result it was called Silver Ware. Silver isn’t a hard substance and it easily chips. Our ancestors were getting small traces with every bite using their silver ware.
Slippery Elm –
Wild Cherry Syrup –
Till next time
Source
John Douillard from LifeSpa including his book Eat Wheat
http://www.naturalnews.com/052241_sinus_remedies_winter_cold_natural_health.html
Get Rid of Throat Mucus Faster With These Home Treatments
By Jenny Hills, Medical Writer and Researcher
http://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/mucus-in-throat/
http://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/types-of-mucus/?utm_source=getresponse&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=healthy_natural&utm_content=What+the+Color+of+Your+Mucus+Tells+About+Your+Health+%2B+More+Health+News
https://www.healthyandnaturalworld.com/types-of-mucus/
http://www.natural-homeremedies.com/homeremedies_cough.htm
http://www.healthy-holistic-living.com/post-nasal-drip-remedies.html?utm_source=Healthy+Holistic+Living&utm_campaign=6ee9cbce0a-HHL_11_8_2014&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_a3e44f3b81-6ee9cbce0a-100310457
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
From → Alternate Medicine, Drinks/water/Sports/Juice, Human Body, Illness, Medications/Drugs, Salt (all Forms), Spices and Herbs, Vitamins
Leave a Comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
« Inflammation and Acid pH Balance
Drink Water Warm Not Cold »
Recent Posts
What Are GMO’s?
What is Canola Oil?
Heartburn and Stomach Acid
Inflammation, Free Radicals and the Antioxidant Benefits of Nuts
Oral and Mouth Care Using Coconut Oil
Keep in Touch
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 89 other followers
Follow
Monthly archive
April 2019 (2)
March 2019 (7)
February 2019 (5)
January 2019 (2)
December 2018 (1)
November 2018 (2)
October 2018 (1)
April 2018 (3)
March 2018 (2)
January 2018 (1)
November 2017 (3)
October 2017 (3)
September 2017 (1)
July 2017 (1)
June 2017 (1)
January 2017 (1)
September 2016 (1)
August 2016 (2)
July 2016 (2)
April 2016 (1)
January 2016 (1)
November 2015 (1)
August 2015 (1)
July 2015 (1)
June 2015 (1)
May 2015 (1)
April 2015 (3)
March 2015 (1)
November 2014 (1)
October 2014 (1)
September 2014 (1)
August 2014 (3)
July 2014 (3)
June 2014 (2)
May 2014 (2)
April 2014 (3)
March 2014 (1)
February 2014 (2)
January 2014 (2)
December 2013 (2)
November 2013 (1)
October 2013 (3)
September 2013 (2)
August 2013 (2)
July 2013 (2)
June 2013 (1)
May 2013 (2)
April 2013 (4)
January 2013 (4)
December 2012 (2)
November 2012 (1)
October 2012 (3)
September 2012 (5)
August 2012 (10)
July 2012 (13)
June 2012 (9)
Search Site
Categories
Allopathic Medicine (10)
Alternate Medicine (48)
antibiotic resistand (1)
Carbohydrate (34)
Cholesterol (12)
Corruption (11)
Diet (33)
Digestion (26)
Drinks/water/Sports/Juice (26)
Farmers (30)
Government (32)
Holistic / Naturopathic (21)
Human Body (77)
Illness (79)
Lequines (3)
Lequines, Nuts, Seeds and Spices (24)
Medications/Drugs (16)
Minerals (9)
Oils and Fats (51)
Personal Care (16)
Political Correct (1)
Propaganda (31)
Protein (11)
Salt (all Forms) (16)
Seeds and Spices (12)
Spices and Herbs (12)
Sugar all forms (26)
Supplement (5)
Supplement, Vitamins, Minerals (30)
Uncategorized (4)
Vitamins (5)
Yearly Site Stats (2)
Log in/out and links
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Blogroll
American Association of Naturopathic Physicians (AANP)
Bag the Ban
Coconut research center
Eat Well Guide.
Find Your Local Farmer's Market
Find your local Health Food Retail Store
Fluoride Action Network
Get the Facts on Beef
Home Made Tips
Local Harvest
National Vaccine Information Center
Olive Branch & Grape Vine
Raw Milk Laws State by State
The Charis Holistic Center
The Cornucopia Institute
The NaturalNews infographic on GMO's
The World's Healthiest Foods
USDA National Nutrient Database
Blog Hits
186,731 hits
acid indigestion Alzheimer's/Dementia anti-inflammatory antioxidants Apple Cider Vinegar Arthritis auto-immune Ayurvedic bacteria Big Pharma butter cancers Candida Coconut Oil cold pressed Crisco dandruff detox Diabetes Diet Digestion Dr. Ancel Keys Dr. Fife Dr Mercola energy expeller pressed Farmer fermentation Fiber Fibromyalgia Flu Vaccine Food Pyramid/Food Plate free-radicals fungus Garlic GMO grass fed Grocery Store health food store Health Ranger Heart disease High Blood Pressure Himalayan hydrogenated immune system inflammation insulin resistant Iodine lard Leaky Gut Syndrome metabolic rate Monounsaturated MRSA Nutrition label Omega-3 Fat Omega-6 fats Organic oxidized oxygen Pesticide pH balance Polyunsaturated Roundup-ready Saturated science Sea Salt Soy Standard American Diet (SAD) Stevia Super Food Table Thyroid toxins Trans Fat Video
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: