Blog Posts
Home
Services
Chiropractic
Functional Neurology
Therapies Provided >
Therapeutic Modalities
Frequency Specific Microcurrent
Fisher Wallace Stimulator®
Massage Therapy
Functional Exercise >
Functional Exercise
ATM2
Interactive Metronome
SFMA
Functional Medicine
Conditions Treated
Technology
About
Office Tour & Hours
Credentials
New Patients
Blog
Functional Medicine Blog
Functional Neurology Blog
Contact
Testimonials
Art: Lower stress and feed the right brain in a left-brain world
2/1/2019
A new study shows that making art — sculpting, drawing, or collage-making — lowers stress hormones, even if you aren’t an artist. This is important for brain health as stress ravages the brain. We also know in functional neurology that our information-overload society hammers away at the left brain non-stop. Art is great way to exercise the right brain, thus improving overall brain function.
The study collected samples of stress hormones before and after the subjects spent 45 minutes drawing, sculpting, or making collages. Three quarters of the subjects showed lower levels of stress hormones after the art-making period. The results were similar regardless of whether the person had prior experience creating art regularly.
Subjects also reported feeling calmer, less anxious, and less obsessive.
What’s interesting is about a quarter of the subjects registered higher cortisol levels after the artistic experience. Researchers say this is not necessarily a bad thing as it may indicate increased excitement or engagement. The older subjects in the experiment exhibited the lower cortisol responses.
The study is important because stress is one of the most significant contributors to accelerated brain degeneration in our modern society. It is especially damaging to the hippocampus, and area of the brain that regulates stress and serves as the seat of learning and memory.
Chronically high levels of cortisol from chronic stress very quickly erode and degenerate the hippocampus. This not only makes the brain more conducive to experiencing stress, it also more quickly erodes learning and memory.
Taking adrenal adaptogens can help buffer the brain from the damages of high cortisol. But it’s also important to engage in more right-brained stress-relieving activities such as creating art.
Using art to support the right brain
The study shows another value in taking time to create art, even if you’re not an artist — exercising the right brain. For most of us, life is dominated by a left-brain existence as we navigate long hours at work, digital information overload, and the logistics of survival in modern America. Left brain characteristics include being analytical, logical, numerical, fact-oriented, very structured, and thinking with words.
However, optimal brain function requires that both sides of the brain work equally. For many of us, the right brain is sorely neglected. Consider these right-brain traits that may be going overlooked in your life:
Visionary
Big-picture thinker
Intuitive
Creative
Free-thinking
Think in terms of visuals more than words
In functional neurology we realize brain rehabilitation is more complex than simply left vs. right brain dominance. But if you find right-brain traits missing from your life, taking some time to engage them can not only lower stress, but also improve cognition, learning, and memory.
Ask my office how we can use functional neurology to help improve your brain performance, recover from brain injuries, or manage brain-based disorders.
Food reactions linked to MS and neuro-autoimmune diseases
1/25/2019
A recent study by Brigham and Women’s Hospital found subjects with food allergies experienced a higher rate of multiple sclerosis (MS) disease activity than those without food allergies.
Researchers divided a group of 1,349 patients into four allergy groups: environmental, drug, food, and no known allergies. They assessed these groups in relation to:
Number of MS attacks
Expanded disability status scale (EDSS)
MS severity score (MSSS)
Radiological variables: presence of gadolinium-enhancing lesions and lesion count.
While the drug and environmental allergy groups did not show significant differences compared with the no-allergy group, the food allergy group showed a 1.38 times higher rate in the number of attacks, and more than twice the likelihood of having gadolinium-enhancing lesions on MRI. Gadolinium enhancement is a marker for blood-brain barrier breakdown and correlates with the inflammatory phase of MS lesion development.
According to study author Tanuja Chitnis, MD, "Food allergies perturb the immune system in ways that seem to increase MS inflammatory activity."
Researchers also suggested gut bacteria, or the microbiome, is an important factor. Further studies on the microbiome and diet may provide more information.
Food allergies vs. food sensitivities in MS and neurological autoimmune diseases
Unfortunately, the study did not differentiate between true food allergy and food sensitivities — more research is required to identify which is at the root of these reactions.
Distinguishing between food allergy and food sensitivity is key for grasping how your diet may affect your symptoms.
A true food allergy is an overreaction by your immune system to a protein it perceives as a threat. Within seconds or minutes, it mobilizes fighter proteins called immunoglobulin E (IgE) to drive the invader out, resulting in these immediate symptoms:
Rash, hives, or itching
Stomach pain
Diarrhea
Shortness of breath
Chest pain
Swelling in the airways
Anaphylaxis
Food sensitivities begin in a similar fashion, but less aggressive immunoglobulin G (IgG) proteins are mobilized. They may not show their effects for hours or days (or even longer) after the pathogen has entered the body. Symptoms vary widely and include:
Brain fog
Systemic inflammation
Mood disorders
Gut disturbances
Low energy
Joint pain
And many more
Because food sensitivity reactions are slower, not as obvious, and typically not potentially deadly, doctors tend to dismiss them. However, their slow-acting effects can still be extremely hazardous to someone with neurological autoimmunity such as MS.
Inflammation and the brain
If you are familiar with “leaky gut” you understand it occurs when the lining of the small intestine becomes overly porous. This allows toxins, undigested food molecules, and other pathogens into the bloodstream, triggering an immune cascade that raises your risk for food sensitivities, pain, systemic inflammation, and autoimmunity.
Like the gut lining, the blood-brain barrier is the protective layer around the brain that allows nutrients in while keeping pathogens out. The same factors that cause leaky gut can also cause the blood-brain barrier to become “leaky,” causing inflammation in the brain.
One of the worst consequences of food sensitivities and chronic inflammation in the brain is over activation of glial cells, the brain’s immune clean-up crew.
Under normal circumstances glial cells remove debris and dead cells from the brain and then the brain returns to normal. However, glial cells don’t have an easy off-switch, and when confronted by chronic inflammation, they go haywire, creating a further inflammatory cascade that can result in:
Brain fog
Depression and anxiety
Schizophrenia and other severe psychological disorders\
ADHD
Headaches and migraines
Cognitive impairment
Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease
Neurological symptoms
Functional neurology for brain inflammation?
To manage your brain inflammation, you must determine if you have food sensitivities. This can be done either with sensitive lab testing by Cyrex Labs, or by an elimination and reintroduction diet that helps determine the offending foods. These are strategies we use in functional neurology to help guide you through the process.
Functional neurology offers many other ways to help reduce brain inflammation and associated symptoms:
Functional neurology rehabilitation. In functional neurology, we use comprehensive examinations and customized rehabilitation protocols to target the areas of your brain and nervous system that need support.
Regular exercise. Raising your heart rate floods your brain with oxygen, nutrients, and anti-inflammatory brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which helps your neurons communicate better.
Blood sugar regulation. Keeping your blood sugar stable is one of the most important ways to reduce or prevent brain inflammation.
Look out for high blood sugar symptoms including:
Constant sugar cravings, especially after eating
Fatigue after meals
Constant hunger
Waist girth equal to or larger than hip girth
Difficulty losing weight
General fatigue
Frequent urination
And low blood sugar symptoms including:
Lack of appetite or nausea in the morning
Eating to relieve fatigue
Sugar cravings
Irritability, light-headedness, or dizziness when you miss a meal
Energy crashes in the afternoon
The need for caffeine for energy
Ant-inflammatory diet. The Standard American Diet (SAD) is high in sugars, processed foods, allergens, and inflammatory foods such as gluten and nightshades. An anti-inflammatory elimination diet can help you determine which foods are causing inflammation.
Manage stress. Daily stress-reduction habits such as meditation, qi gong, walking, laughter, and play are anti-inflammatory and benefit brain health.
Improve brain circulation. The better the circulation to your brain, the more oxygen and other needed nutrients you give it. Ways to help include:
Ginkgo biloba
Don’t smoke
Address hypothyroidism
Address asthma and sleep apnea
Please contact my office for guidance on how functional neurology can help you with MS and other neurological autoimmune symptoms or diseases.
Beyond babymaking: Uterus and sex hormones vital to brain
1/18/2019
It has long been thought the uterus’ only role was for housing a developing fetus, however, new research shows that the uterus may also play a vital role in the brain’s working memory. In functional neurology and functional medicine, we know how important female hormones and all the organs are to proper brain health.
The rat study divided rats into four groups:
Had their ovaries and uterus removed
Had only their uterus removed
Had only their ovaries removed
Underwent surgery but nothing was removed
Six weeks after the surgery, the researchers trained the rats to go through a maze. Then they gradually modified the maze. The researchers were surprised to discover the rats who underwent removal of the uterus performed more poorly than the other three groups, all of which performed about equally.
The rats who only had the uterus removed also showed a different hormone profile compared to the other three groups.
Although the rats who lost their ovaries performed as well on the test as those that didn’t, human studies paint a different picture: Removal of the ovaries (oophorectomy) is associated with memory lapses and an increased risk of dementia. It’s also associated with an increased risk of heart disease and osteoporosis.
This is because the ovaries make the reproductive hormones estrogen and progesterone, which are both vital to brain health.
As for the effect of a hysterectomy on brain function, the researchers cite the role of autonomic nervous system. We know the vagus nerve, a large nerve that connects the brain with the organs, plays a key role in the effect of diet and gut health on brain health. It stands to reason the back-and-forth communication between the uterus and the brain also affects brain health, especially if that communication is suddenly halted by removing the uterus.
This upends the conventional medical education that the uterus is a disposable organ with a “sole purpose.” The study’s authors remind us that nothing in the body acts in isolation, something we’ve long known in functional medicine and functional neurology.
The importance of the reproductive organs to the brain
Although an oophorectomy and/or hysterectomy may me medically necessary for conditions such as cancer, many oophorectomies and hysterectomies performed today are simply unnecessary and ignore the risks and side effects, which are severe for some women. Uterine fibroids, another common cause of hysterectomies, now have alternative treatments to removal.
Although women thankfully can use bioidentical hormone therapy to replace the loss of reproductive organ function in the case of ovary removal, an organ that communicates with the brain via the vagus nerve cannot be replaced when removed. However, functional neurology rehabilitation and vagus nerve exercises can help your brain compensate and find better function.
The importance of hormones to the brain
The female sex hormones estrogen and progesterone are vitally necessary to brain health. It’s important to use functional medicine strategies to balance your hormones for your brain’s sake.
If you are struggling with brain-based symptoms during perimenopause or after menopause, it’s important to determine whether an estrogen deficiency is the cause and to address that as low estrogen raises your risk of dementia and Alzheimer’s. Common brain-based symptoms linked to estrogen deficiency include memory loss, anxiety, depression, and insomnia.
Ask my office how functional neurology and functional medicine can help you protect your hormonal and brain health.
Sing your way to better brain health, ideally with others
1/11/2019
Communal singing was once a regular part of life, and still is in some parts of the world. These days, however, we largely leave the singing to the stars, reality singing TV shows, and drunken karaoke nights. And it’s too bad — science shows singing is enormously beneficial to the brain.
Even though language is more of a left-brain task, singing activates the right temporal lobe of the brain, thanks to the rhythmic melodies that require the right brain’s involvement. In fact, some people who lose the ability to speak due to left brain damage are still able to sing.
Researchers have long been working with singing as a way to help rehabilitate speech. The areas of the right brain involved with singing are eventually able to compensate for the damaged left brain so that the person learns to speak again.
Singing also benefits people not suffering from brain injury. One study looked at the brains of singers versus non-singers and found singers had greater connections between different areas of the brain, especially on the left side. Researchers say this is because the left side of the brain is involved in language and articulation while the right side is involved in pitch and melody.
In our digital age of information overload, the left brain is beleaguered with non-stop evaluation, processing, and analyzing all the information thrown at us. Singing nurtures the right side of the brain, which governs intuition, imagination, and creativity, and can not only help improve overall brain health, but also simply make us feel better.
Studies show many benefits to singing, including:
Releases serotonin, the brain chemical that keeps depression at bay
Releases oxytocin, the love and bonding hormone
Releases endorphins, our internal feel-good chemicals
Lowers the stress hormone cortisol
Communal singing even synchronizes people’s heartbeats, fostering connection and community. Singing is believed to have evolved in humans to enhance survival by fostering cooperation between people, building trust and loyalty, transmit information, and ward off enemies. Churches, choirs, and kirtans are examples where you can sing together with others.
Taken together these effects lower inflammation, elevate mood, calm anxiety and stress, strengthen bonds and trust between people, and reduce loneliness and depression.
Singing could be good for your gut
Singing has another potential benefit, especially if you do it really loudly in the shower or in your car — it can strengthen the vagus nerve, the “information highway” between the brain and the gut.
The vagus nerve is a large nerve that runs between the brain and the digestive organs. Information travels back and forth between the brain and the gut via the vagus. It explains why brain issues can cause gut issues and vice versa. For example, a poor diet or unhealthy gut bacteria can cause depression while a brain injury can suddenly cause irresolvable gut issues.
If brain health is poor or if the brain has suffered damage, the vagus nerve can under function, compromising communication between the gut and the brain. Exercises to strengthen the vagus nerve can be profoundly effective in improving this connection and overall function of both the brain and the gut.
Vagus nerve exercises include gargling vigorously several times a day, pressing on the back of your tongue with a tongue depressor, and, you guessed it, singing loudly. Take advantage of having the house or the car to yourself to really belt out some tunes so your vagus nerve is robustly activated.
The most important thing to know about singing is you don’t have to be good at it. Everyone’s voice has meaning and purpose, including yours.
Ask my office how singing and other forms of neurological rehabilitation and optimization can help improve your brain function.
Which area of your brain is failing? Look at your symptoms
1/5/2019
Understanding some brain basics helps you understand symptoms when your brain isn’t working right. The brain is our heaviest and most complex organ, using most of the body’s oxygen and about 30 percent of its energy supply.
The brain is divided into sections, each in charge of different functions although all working together. In functional neurology, we can identify areas of poor brain function and help you get them working better again with customized therapy and rehabilitation.
Frontal lobe
The frontal lobe is the area of your forehead that stretches between the temples. The human frontal lobe distinguishes us from other animals and governs much of our personality, impulse control, and the ability to reason. A frontal lobe injury can completely change your personality and ADHD is understood to affect the frontal lobe.
The frontal lobe also governs emotional drive, motivation, and planning. Poor frontal lobe function can result in an inability to set goals or follow through on projects or plans. You may feel lazy, unmotivated, or depressed if so. In fact, depression is simply a frontal lobe impairment.
The frontal lobe activates the muscles. Poor frontal lobe function can result in moving more slowly or not swinging your arms when you walk.
Fine-motor coordination also falls under the frontal lobe’s duties. This is needed for handwriting, embroidery, and other detailed movements of the hands. As the frontal lobe degenerates it’s typical for handwriting to worsen.
Symptoms and signs of possible frontal lobe impairment
Slower and less powerful muscle movements
Depression
Mental sluggishness and laziness
Poor impulse control
Poor social behavior and judgment
Poor handwriting
Poor cognitive function, such as poor math or planning skills
Trouble learning complex things, such as math, new languages, or philosophy
Poor muscle-coordination
Temporal lobe
The temporal lobes are located on either side of the brain above the ears. They govern hearing, speech, memory, emotions, and distinguishing smells.
Tinnitus (ringing in the ear) is a common symptom of temporal lobe dysfunction, although not all tinnitus is due to temporal lobe degeneration, as is difficulty distinguishing between different tones.
Within the temporal lobes is the hippocampus, the seat of learning and memory. Degeneration of the hippocampus leads to poor memory and eventually Alzheimer’s disease.
It is also involved with spatial orientation, sense of direction, and circadian rhythm (sleep-wake cycle).
Symptoms and signs of possible temporal lobe impairment
Poor memory
Difficulty hearing with background noise
Episodes of tinnitus
Abnormal shifts of fatigue throughout the day
Ongoing episodes of insomnia
Parietal lobe
The parietal lobes are located behind the ears and perceive and interpret sensations such as touch, pressure, texture, weight, size, or shape. The parietal lobe function also tells the body where it is in its environment. Reoccurring injuries are common with parietal lobe impairment.
Symptoms and signs of possible parietal lobe impairment
Feeling unstable in darkness or with thick or high-heel shoes
Misjudging where your body is in relation to your environment
Unable to recognize objects through touch
Difficulty perceiving where your limbs are and becoming prone to falls and sprains
Cerebellum
Your cerebellum is two lobes at the back of the head, directly above your neck. It calibrates muscle coordination and balance and filters information before sending it to the brain.
Symptoms and signs of possible cerebellum impairment
Episodes of dizziness or vertigo
Nausea from visual inputs (car sickness)
Poor balance
Subtle shakes at the end stage of hand movement
Occipital lobe
The occipital lobe is in the back of the brain and processes visual information.
Symptoms of possible occipital lobe impairment
Difficulty processing visual information and recognizing shapes, colors, and motion
Visual hallucinations
Visual floaters
Visual persistence or reoccurrence of the visual image after it has been removed
Any of the above symptoms in adults usually mean degeneration in those areas of the brain while in children it can signal poor brain development. If your overall brain function is declining, you may have many of these symptoms.
The good news is the brain is very receptive to improving with the right nutrients and input. Functional neurology excels in identifying areas of brain dysfunction and customizing brain rehabilitation specifically for your brain. Ask my office for more information.
Exercise soon to be prescribed for depression and dementia
12/21/2018
We commonly think of exercise as important to lose weight, relieve stress, or improve heart health. But perhaps its best benefit is that it heals, protects, and supports the brain. In fact, the effects of exercise on the brain are so profound it may soon be prescribed for depression, dementia, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's.
BDNF: The magic exercise brain chemical
A protein produced in the brain, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), helps the brain perform important functions such as:
Developing new connections between neurons
Repairing failing neurons
Protecting healthy neurons
Protecting the brain from neurodegenerative diseases
Healthy BDNF levels are associated with memory and learning as well as a good, positive mood. When BDNF is low, however, learning suffers, you are more prone to depression, and the risk for brain degenerative disorders such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's increase.
BDNF levels naturally decline with age — one reason complex tasks that were easy in our youth become more difficult. What's more, one in three Americans have a mutation in the gene responsible for producing BDNF.
If we want to maintain or even improve your brain function as you age, it's critically important to do everything possible to support BDNF production throughout life.
Exercise improves learning and memory
Scientists have known for decades that exercise improves cognition. Exercise triggers the release of proteins and other molecules from fat, muscle, and liver tissue that impact BDNF levels and that can initiate neurogenesis, the formation of neurons.
Exercise also promotes the growth of new blood vessels in the brain. And increase in blood flow to the brain increases the volume of the hippocampus, the brain's seat of learning and memory. It also improves plasticity, the brain's ability to learn by forming new connections between neurons.
Is exercise the new prescription for depression and brain degenerative disease?
Numerous studies are currently researching the potential benefits of exercise for Alzheimer's, Parkinson's symptoms, and depression, making it look like it a likely prescription for these conditions in the future.
But why wait? Try it yourself and see the profound effects it has on your own brain function.
Ask my office how to integrate functional neurology rehabilitation to not only super charge the great effects from regular physical activity, but also to help you develop the motivation and energy to start and maintain an exercise habit.
Parkinson's. Parkinson's patients who exercise show improvements in balance and gait, indicating their brains retained some plasticity (the ability of neurons to form new connections with each other) after their symptoms appeared.
A recent mouse study showed exercise in mice with Parkinson's-like disease increased dopamine receptors in the basal ganglia, brain structures important for learning, movement, and emotion.
Dopamine receptor loss is a hallmark of Parkinson's. In a human study, patients who walked on a treadmill three times a week for eight weeks increased the numbers of dopamine receptors on the basal ganglia.
Mouse studies also showed exercise maintained dendritic spines, the projections on neurons that branch to and connect with other neurons, thus modifying progression of the disease.
Alzheimer's. Studies suggest exercise can help prevent Alzheimer's in those who carry the APOE-ε4 allele, the gene variant most commonly linked with late-onset stage of the disease.
Other researchers are trying to mimic exercise's benefits to dementia by increasing BDNF genetically or pharmaceutically, which may one day offer an option for patients who can't exercise.
Added ways to boost BDNF
Below are some of the methods we suggest in functional neurology to support healthy BDNF levels and brain function:
Exercise. Moderate intensity exercise is linked to increased working memory and cognitive flexibility while high-intensity exercise improves the speed of information processing. However, low-intensity exercise does not have the same effects on BDNF compared to high intensity exercise, so push yourself and make your workouts count. However, don’t overdo it as this increases inflammation, which can inflame and degenerate the brain. Pay attention to the effect of exercise on your brain and find the sweet spot of duration and intensity.
One great way to boost your BDNF is to do the 7-minute workout first thing every morning.
Avoid excess sugars, processed foods, and high-fructose corn syrup because they drive systemic inflammation and can reduce BDNF in the brain.
Intermittent fasting. Studies show dietary restriction stimulates production of proteins such as BDNF that enhance brain plasticity and provide resistance to oxidative and metabolic harm.
Mental stimulation. The brain is like a muscle — use it or lose it.
Omega-3 fatty acids. A diet high in Omega-3 fats is shown to boost brain function. You can find high levels of these fats in cold water fish, walnuts, chia seeds, and flax seeds.
Social time. Animal models show that meaningful social connection improves BDNF levels in the brain.
Curcumin and resveratrol. Curcumin, the anti-inflammatory factor in the spice turmeric, and resveratrol, sourced mainly from red grapes, have been shown to increase BDNF. Taken together they are highly anti-inflammatory.
Stress-reduction habits. When we are under stress we produce less BDNF. Support BDNF with a daily routine that includes a stress-busting activity such as sitting meditation, chi gong, or a walk in the park.
Adequate sleep. Sleep deprivation drives down BDNF levels. Aim for about eight hours of sleep every night and avoid screen time in the evening to help your brain adjust to sleep mode.
Crawling is important for childhood brain development
12/14/2018
A toddler's first steps are a milestone event parents eagerly await. However, early walking does not mean your child is advanced. In fact, it can mean your child’s brain has missed some vital developmental steps that will cause problems later.
Two main types of crawling
Experts have observed 25 unique combinations of body parts used by babies to move across the ground, however the two main types are belly crawling and criss-cross crawling on hands and knees.
Belly crawling. About half of babies begin crawling by keeping their belly against the floor. These children typically start crawling earlier than those who start out on hands and knees because belly crawling takes less strength and balance.
On occasion, babies use this method of crawling right up until the moment they walk. Others move to criss-cross crawling before walking.
Criss-cross crawling or hands and knees crawling requires limbs from opposite sides to coordinate with each other. A baby alternates arms and legs, getting the arm on one side to meet the floor at the same time the opposite leg does.
Also called contra-lateral, or cross-lateral crawling, this diagonal style of movement is vital in the development of an important pathway in the brain that belly crawling does not impact — the corpus callosum.
Criss-cross crawling is vitally important to brain development
The corpus callosum is a band of nerve fibers between the hemispheres of the brain. Criss-cross crawling stimulates the corpus callosum to develop in a balanced way, facilitating the hemispheres of the brain to communicate.
A baby’s cross lateral movements work both sides of the body evenly and involve coordinated movements of the eyes, ears, hands, feet, and core muscles. This helps support cognitive function, problem solving, and ease of learning.
Crawling helps hip sockets form
Crawling also serves as physiological stepping stone to walking. The crawling muscle actions start to reshape the hips, pulling them inward and forward. As the baby gets stronger she becomes better positioned to lift her body and balance for walking.
Crossing the midline of the body
In criss-cross crawling a baby can also move a limb to the opposite side of the body, such as touching the right hand to the left shoulder. This type of movement is key for developing vision, hearing, learning, and integration of reflexes.
Other ways crossing the midline helps babies:
Increases lower back strength in preparation for upright positioning.
Prepares the ankles for the flexion used in walking.
Exercises spinal rotation.
Strengthens hand-eye coordination.
What about other crawling methods?
You may notice your baby using other combinations of limbs and movements to move across the floor. Scooting on the bottom, using one foot or knee to push or pull, crab crawling, leapfrogging, or even repetitive rolling may indicate difficulty coordinating the cross-body movement necessary for hands and knees crawling.
This may occur for various reasons and it indicate your child is missing out on important developmental inputs.
If your baby doesn't seem to want to crawl, find a functional neurology practitioner who can help you learn fun, supportive, nonjudgmental ways to encourage crawling so your baby can gain all the brain benefits.
Be wary of pushing your baby to be upright
Some babies don't crawl on hands and knees and some recent parenting trends will tell you crawling isn't important, but that doesn't mean it isn't vital for development.
For instance, one popular trend that can inhibit development of reflexes and motor function is to prop babies in upright holding devices too often.
Placing a baby habitually into an upright position she otherwise couldn’t get into on her own, whether in a device or by hand, can make it harder for her to meet normal developmental milestones.
This doesn't mean you should never prop your baby up. It is fine to carry your baby upright, hold her at face level for interaction, or sit her in a high chair for eating, but make sure to give her plenty of time on the floor so she can develop her brain-body connections.
How can I help my baby learn to crawl?
The following suggestions can help encourage crawling:
Give your baby as much floor time as possible. Exploration helps babies try new movements.
Allow your baby to discover sitting and standing completely on her own. This way she will build strength and coordination necessary for crawling on hands and knees.
Minimize holding or propping your baby upright to prevent her from developing excess muscle tension that makes crawling difficult.
Avoid popular trends that tell you crawling is not important.
If your baby arches her back a lot, does not want to curl up and snuggle, does not use both arms and legs, uses rolling more often than crawling, or does not seem interested in moving, seek assistance from a functional neurology doctor.
Science has known for years that children who miss the vitally important crawling stage may exhibit learning difficulties later in life.
Crawling on hands and knees is vitally important for proper development of the brain and body.
Allow your baby to crawl for as long as she wants, and when she walks on her own she will take the benefits forward with her throughout life.
Contact our functional neurology office for more advice.
Functional neurology rehabs brain changes from chronic pain
12/7/2018
For people with chronic pain, pain and limited mobility aren’t the only challenges. Long-term pain also affects the brain in ways that lead to chronic depression, anxiety, and cognitive difficulty. In functional neurology we look at not only how to treat chronic pain, but also how to protect the brain from the impacts of chronic pain. Addressing brain imbalances caused by chronic pain can actually help bring relief and begin to unwind the pain.
Scientists at Northwestern University found that in patients with chronic pain, depression and other brain-related symptoms may be triggered by a malfunction in a region of the brain called the cortex.
In a healthy brain, each region activates or deactivates according to its intended functions, creating a natural equilibrium between all the regions that ebbs and flows moment to moment in response to the environment and the body.
But with chronic pain, a part of the cortex "never shuts up," according to Dante Chialvo, lead author of the study.
Areas that ought to deactivate fail to do so, leading to a full-throttle activation that alters connections between neurons and can lead to permanent damage.
Chialvo's team used MRI technology to compare the brains of chronic pain subjects with the brains of pain-free people. When both groups took on the same task, the chronic pain group performed the task just as well as the pain-free group, but their brain functioned somewhat differently.
When certain parts of the cortex activated in the pain-free group, others deactivated, creating the expected equilibrium called the "resting state network."
In the chronic pain group, however, one of the nodes in this network stayed fired up instead of deactivating.
According to Chialvo, "We know when neurons fire too much they may change their connections with other neurons or even die because they can't sustain high activity for so long."
These changes may affect mood and make it more difficult to make decisions.
The findings indicate not only a need for better pain management options, but new ways to prevent the brain dysfunction that may lie behind these symptoms.
That’s why if you find yourself in a situation where you experience chronically it’s important to seek functional neurology rehabilitation not only to dampen or relieve the pain but also to protect your brain from the damages of chronic pain.
Chronic pain is learned by the body like a new skill
Chronic pain is similar to a learned memory such as typing — repetition enables you to learn something new by supporting transmission of the right signals between neurons. Persistent pain becomes chronic because the neurons involved become more efficient at transmitting pain signals.
A recent Canadian study that looked more deeply into this has identified a molecule that can reduce chronic pain-related anxiety by blocking the signals sent between neurons that create chronic pain.
This molecule, called NB001, has powerful pain-reducing effects in animal models and may lead to new medical interventions for chronic pain and anxiety.
Functional neurology methods to address chronic pain
Chronic pain can rob you of enjoyment in life and drain you of the energy to even take the steps to address it.
Conventional treatment relies heavily on quick fixes such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), narcotics, and antidepressant pain modifiers. However, these substances can build dependencies and potentially cause hearing loss. Temporary fixes for chronic pain don't get to the root causes.
In functional neurology we look at chronic pain from a whole-body perspective, seeking the root causes and addressing them from the ground up. While medications are sometimes necessary, there are many things you can do to mediate pain in other ways.
Inflammation is one of the most common causes of chronic pain. The result of your body's immune response to harmful environmental toxins, allergies, food sensitivities, and stress, inflammation must be mediated in order to relieve chronic pain.
Following an anti-inflammatory diet is key for mediating inflammation. Many common foods are to blame for systemic inflammation, such as gluten, dairy, eggs, grains, legumes, and those in the nightshade family (white potatoes, eggplant, peppers, tomatoes, and more).
Many people experience profound pain relief by simply avoiding one of more of those food categories.
For those with autoimmunity, an anti-inflammatory diet is foundational for managing not only chronic pain, but many other associated symptoms.
A functional neurology practitioner can help determine what tests to run to find out if you have specific food sensitivities.
Avoiding excess sugars is important for quelling pain and inflammation. Blood sugar that is too low or too high, or that swings frequently from one extreme to the other, contributes to inflammation of the body and especially the brain.
Mild to moderate exercise can help reduce systemic inflammation and related pain. While an exercise-induced injury is of course the exception, moving your body helps circulate blood and oxygen, remove toxins, and motivate the immune system to function properly. Be cautious of over exercising, though, as over-doing it can flare up systemic inflammation and pain.
Sleep is one of the most powerful mediators for chronic pain. While sometimes it's the pain itself that keeps someone from sleep, there are ways you can support good sleep such as:
Get 8-10 hours of sleep a day. If you can't get that much in one stretch, nap whenever possible.
Go to bed and get up at the same time every day.
Avoid screen time (blue light) in the hour before bed.
If you must use a screen in the evening, use blue-blocker glasses, or an app such as F.lux on your computer to filter out the blue tones and allow in the brain-calming amber.
Sleep in a cool room with plenty of covers to stay warm.
Make your bedroom only for sleeping, no non-sleep activities allowed.
Stress management. High stress goes hand-in-hand with systemic inflammation. A daily stress-reduction practice such as meditation, tai chi, chi gong, yoga, or laughter and play goes a long way toward reducing pain and inflammation.
Your functional medicine practitioner may have other ways to help alleviate your chronic pain, including:
Herbal and nutritional compounds to alleviate inflammation, promote sleep, and reduce stress
Therapeutic body work
Breathing techniques
Other lifestyle adjustments
Chronic pain is hard to live with, and to remedy it you must take action. Contact my office for functional neurology help with your chronic pain condition.
Inability to handle rejection a troubling ADHD symptom
11/30/2018
Most people automatically associate ADHD with hyperactivity, inattention, and impulsivity — all easily observed from the outside. However, for those who experience this disorder one of the most challenging aspects is invisible to the onlooker — a severe reaction to rejection.
The debilitating experience of rejection sensitive dysphoria
Nobody likes being rejected or falling short of expectations, but for those with ADHD, the response to these situations can be extreme.
Common to ADHD patients, rejection sensitive dysphoria (RSD) is intense sensitivity and emotional pain triggered by the perception — not necessarily the reality — of being rejected, teased, or criticized by those who are important to you.
Also triggered by a sense of falling short of one's own standards or of others' expectations, RSD is the most debilitating aspect for 30 percent of people with ADHD.
People with ADHD aren't weak or "too sensitive" — their brains actually perceive these situations as more painful than others do, and their emotional response hurts them much more than for those without the condition. Some even experience it as physical pain in the region of the chest.
When coping with RSD, a person may internalize or externalize their reaction — and sometimes both:
Internalized RSD can manifest as a major mood disorder, with sudden shifts from feeling fine to feeling intensely sad, even to the point of suicidal ideation. Often misdiagnosed as rapid cycling bipolar disorder, this aspect of RSD is frequently missed by healthcare practitioners.
Externalized RSD may look like a flash of rage at the person or situation at the source of the pain. Possibly related, half of the people assigned court-ordered anger-management treatment have previously unrecognized ADHD.
Those who suffer from RSD tend to anticipate rejection and cope in one or both of these ways:
Becoming antisocial to avoid the expected rejection. Even the slight possibility of falling short in front of others is too painful and risky to consider. Meanwhile, these smart, capable people give up on social life, applying for jobs, or public engagements because of the fear. This social withdrawal can look like social phobia, which is a serious fear of being embarrassed in public, but they are not the same thing.
Becoming an avid people-pleaser in an attempt to prevent the situations that cause so much pain. They scan those they interact with to try to determine what will make them happy, then become that person in an effort to be accepted. Some do this at the expense of their true personality. Others cope by becoming overachievers, but the search for perfection is never satisfied, leading to more effort at achievement.
While RSD episodes are intense and don't last very long, recovery can take some time.
Perceptions and self-fulfilling prophesies
RSD can affect relationships with friends, family, and romantic partners. The ongoing perception that you're being rejected can turn into a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Perception is the key word: Someone with RSD might feel they are being rejected or criticized, but the situation may not really exist.
This is also known as a self-fulfilling prophecy: An individual believes something is true, acts as if it was true, anticipates a particular outcome, and this expectation changes their emotional behavior.
As a result, they set themselves up to receive the feedback they expect, which only reinforces the belief.
Do I have RSD?
Some RSD symptoms are shared with other mental health conditions leading it to be confused with:
Bipolar disorder
Depression
Social phobia
Borderline personality disorder
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Because RSD can look like other disorders, it's important to get a proper diagnosis so you can get treatment and learn the right coping skills. If you have ADHD and experience any of these symptoms, see your mental health provider:
Feel easily embarrassed in social situations.
Feel instant rage or have an emotional outburst when you think someone has teased, criticized, or rejected you.
Feel anxious in social settings.
Set overly-high standards for yourself that you often can't meet.
Have low self-esteem.
Avoid social situations.
Feel like a failure because you haven't lived up to your own or others' expectations.
Think about hurting yourself.
Constantly feel under pressure.
Avoid trying new things due to fear of failure.
In a constant state of panic in your relationships.
Unbearable anxiety.
Often feel depressed and alone.
Feel constantly rejected by friends, family, or your partner.
Generally good at hiding your sensitivities.
How do I manage rejection sensitivity?
Aside from getting a diagnosis, the following can help you cope with RSD:
Stay ahead of your emotions. If you feel an episode coming, try to process your emotions rationally. Realize your sense of perfectionism and let it go. Remember that what you perceive as the cause of the rejection may not actually exist.
Seek counseling. A mental health counselor can help you learn how to cope with the extreme reactions common to RSD. However, counseling isn't considered the first treatment option, because the fast reactions caused by RSD are in the moment and they overwhelm the mind.
Reduce your stress factors. Stress over-taxes your nervous and endocrine systems, making it harder for you to cope with situations where your RSD may flare up. In functional neurology we can help create a comprehensive diet and lifestyle plan to reduce and manage your stress level.
There are two possible medication options for RSD:
Alpha-agonist medications. Originally designed as blood pressure medications, guanfacine and clonidine can help. While only 30 percent of people experience relief from either medication alone, 60 percent experience better benefits when both are used.
Successfully treated patients report feeling at peace, as if they have "emotional armor," plus having fewer thoughts at one time.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) used off-label (for a condition other than that for which it has been officially approved). Effective for both the emotional and attention/impulsivity components of ADHD, this is the traditional treatment of choice.
MAOIs are FDA-approved for mood and anxiety disorders, but patients must avoid the following:
Foods that are aged instead of cooked
First-line ADHD stimulants
All antidepressant medications
OTC cold, sinus, and hay fever medications
OTC cough remedies
Some forms of anesthesia
If you experience RSD, remember you aren't alone: it is experienced by a surprising 98 to 99 percent of adolescents and adults with ADHD and 1 in 3 say it's the hardest part of living with the condition.
For some people, just knowing that RSD is a common part of ADHD brings comfort. It's not your fault, you are not damaged, and there are ways you can improve your reactions to these painful situations to live a full and healthy life.
In functional neurology we have a variety of non-pharmaceutical brain rehabilitation techniques customized to your unique neurology that can help you better manage your ADHD, RSD, and other related symptoms. Ask our office for more advice.
Moss-like plant can act on brain’s cannibinoid receptors
11/24/2018
Medicinal use of cannabis is a subject of debate in the US and around the world, however, discovery of the endocannabinoid system has been an important finding thanks to cannabis research. But not everyone who may benefit from the medicinal properties of cannabis wants to use the plant or can access it legally.
Turns out we have options. While it was previously thought that Cannabis sativa was the only plant to produce the medicinal cannabinoid compounds, a family of plants found in Japan, New Zealand, and Costa Rica has been found to offer similar benefits without the psychoactive effects of cannabis.
Patients seek less psychoactive cannabinoids
Cannabinoids are signaling chemicals produced naturally in our bodies. These molecules interact with the cannabinoid receptors found in the brain, immune system, connective tissues, and organs, playing a role in inflammation, pain, mood, appetite, memory, and more.
The Cannabis sativa plant also produces a wide variety of chemical compounds known as cannabinoids.
Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are two of the most abundant and well-known cannabinoids. While THC is known for its anti-inflammatory and psychoactive properties, more and more patients are asking for CBD because it has less of a psychoactive effect while combating inflammation.
Cannabis-based cannabinoids are used for a wide range of therapeutic applications, including:
Inflammation
Chronic pain
Loss of appetite
Asthma
Insomnia
Anorexia
HIV/AIDS
Depression
IBD
Endometriosis
Fibromyalgia
Spasticity associated with MS
Intractable seizures
Nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy
Some states have legalized medical cannabis and even taken steps to legalize recreational use. At the same time, many patients are advocating for increased research due to its potential health benefits and smaller list of side effects compared to pharmaceutical options.
Perrottetinene less psychoactive than THC
In 1994, Japanese phytochemist Yoshinori Asakawa discovered perrottetinene (PET), a compound found in liverwort, but at the time nothing was known about its pharmacological effects.
Then Jürg Gertsch, a Swiss researcher, noticed the rare moss-like liverwort plant was being promoted online for its "legal high" and medicinal uses.
Gertsch and his team developed a new synthesis method to produce large amounts of PET without having to isolate it from the actual plant.
Using mouse and cell models the team found that PET has a molecular structure similar to THC, enabling it to easily attach to the brain’s cannabinoid receptors.
While PET reaches the brain relatively easily it activates cannabinoid receptors to a lesser degree than THC. As a result, PET is much less psychoactive than THC, making it more attractive for medicinal users or for those with moral objections to cannabis.
In another contrast to THC, PET more strongly inhibits prostaglandins in the brain, thus lowering inflammation in the brain.
“In a direct comparison I think PET is the better version of THC,” Gertsch concluded.
According to Ethan Russo M.D., a neurologist and cannabis researcher, this makes PET potentially useful medically because it provides effective anti-inflammatory and painkiller effects without the risk of intoxication, liver ulcers, heart attack, and stroke from NSAIDs and other pharmaceutical interventions.
Russo also noted that this new research should promote additional biochemical research into other liverwort species.
So far PET has only been studied on mice brains and further research is necessary for chronic and inflammatory pain.
It was previously believed that Cannabis Sativa was the only plant to produce cannabinoids. We now know three species of liverwort — Radula perrottetii, Radula marginata, and Radula laxiramea — produce the compound, although only in tiny quantities.
The potential of the liverwort family isn't a total surprise. The Maori people of New Zealand have used the liverwort plant for centuries to treat disorders of the liver and digestive system, and it has long been used in traditional western herbal medicine.
Functional neurology and functional medicine offer effective alternatives to the opiates that have turned into an addiction crisis. In functional neurology we often see chronic pain stem from dysfunctions in the brain, negative feedback loops, and negative plasticity — or a brain that has become highly efficient at producing pain so it happens too easily.
Ask our office how functional neurology and functional medicine can help you relieve your chronic pain.
<<Previous
Forward>>
Archives
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
March 2017
February 2017
Categories
All
RSS Feed
patients' choice award
Congratulations to Advanced Chiropractic Center for winning the 2015 Patients' Choice Awards in Asheville Chiropractor
Verified by Opencare.com
contact US
​828-667-8000
Advanced Chiropractic Center
​22 Sardis Road
Asheville, NC 28806
office@advancedchiropracticavl.com
www.advancedchiropracticavl.com
Get directions
find us
Home
Services
Chiropractic
Functional Neurology
Therapies Provided >
Therapeutic Modalities
Frequency Specific Microcurrent
Fisher Wallace Stimulator®
Massage Therapy
Functional Exercise >
Functional Exercise
ATM2
Interactive Metronome
SFMA
Functional Medicine
Conditions Treated
Technology
About
Office Tour & Hours
Credentials
New Patients
Blog
Functional Medicine Blog
Functional Neurology Blog
Contact
Testimonials