Yoga asanas for asthma and breathing problem patients – Yoga Teacher Training Goa
Skip to content
Menu
MENUMENU
Home
About Us
Our Teachers
Gallery
Yoga Teachers
Student's Feedback
Yoga Retreat India
Yoga in Bali
Yoga in Nepal
Yoga Teacher Training Goa
500 Hour Yoga Teacher Training in Goa India
300 hour Yoga Teacher Training in Goa India – AYM
200 hour yoga teacher training Goa India – AYM
Yoga TTC in Goa
AYM 200-300 hours Yoga Teacher Training
Hatha Yoga
Yin Yoga
Benefits of Yoga
Blog
What is Yoga – Yoga Teacher Training Goa
What is Chakras in Yoga and its benefit?
Benefits of Yoga
Best morning yoga poses to start your day
Yoga Asanas for Eating Disorder
Best Yoga Poses Drugs Addicted People
5 Simple & Powerful Practices to Handle Stress through yoga
Register Now
Payment Option
Contact Us
Yoga asanas for asthma and breathing problem patients
Posted on August 21, 2017 December 25, 2017 by yoga teacher training goa
Before talking about different poses of Yoga for Asthma Patients first let us talk about what causes asthma. Asthma is an acute respiratory condition caused due to the attacks of spasm on the bronchi of lungs and hence causing difficulty in breathing. As breathing is considered as one of the most important parts of Yoga, hence Yoga breathing exercises provide the best relief for the asthma patients who are always affected by an acute breathing problem.
As high power and costly medicines and injections weaken the body and its immune system, Yoga is hence considered as the safest and simplest way for treatment of Asthma patients. To be frank, there are many tips to cure Asthma with yoga, but today I will be discussing Top 10 and best yoga asana to relieve asthma and provide easiness in breathing. These are as follows:
Nadi Shodhan Pranayam:
Start your day with this pranayama breathing technique, and you will instantly feel the calmness in your mind and removal of body stress. It has great healing power on different circulatory and respiratory problems.
Kapal Bhati Pranayam:
This breathing method energizes nervous system along with the relaxation of mind. It also cleans all the energy channels (nadis) and enhances blood circulation.
Sukhasana (Easy Pose):
It is one of the easiest sitting poses for meditation. Just simply sit down and keep your hands spread on thighs and start meditating. It is advised to practice on the early morning but not necessarily with an empty stomach. Do the pose till you feel comfortable with it. Sukhasana regulates the breath and reduces stress. It relaxes the brain, broadens the chest, and you feel steady and strong.
Upavistha Konasana (seated wide angle pose):
In this, you have sat down on your buttocks and spread your legs as wide as possible. You practice it at morning with an empty stomach or in the evening with 3-4 hours gap from a previous meal. This asana stretches out the upper body which results in the opening of the lungs and hence comfortable breathing.
Ardha Matsyendrasana( Sitting half spinal twist):
This involves sitting down on the floor and twisting the spine side wards. Do it in the morning and hold it till 30-60 seconds. It widens the chest and hence oxygen supply to lungs is improved. This results in decreasing the chances of an asthma attack.
Sethu Bandhasana (Bridge Pose):
This pose, when done properly, replicates a bridge. It helps in widening and stretching of your chest & lungs, curing thyroid problem and also betters digestion.
Bhujangasana (Cobra Pose):
It is a very famous and important pose for asthma patients. In this, the back is bent, and body stretched up just like a cobra raising its hood to attack. It expands the chest and improves oxygen flow and blood circulation inside the body. Also, your flexibility is improved.
Adho Mukha Svanasana (Downward-facing dog pose):
This asana helps in soothing the mind and relieving stress and discomfort. It improves breathing and heals sinusitis.
Purvottanasana (Upward Plank pose):
A slight difficult but highly effective pose for asthma treatment. It enhances the respiratory system, betters the thyroid glands and also helps in strengthening arms, wrists, spine and back. Also, the body hormones are controlled.
Shavasana (Corpse Pose):
If you want your yoga to end fruitfully then end it with savasana. It involves simply lying down straight on the floor for a few minutes and relaxing your body. It helps in reducing pressure and anxiety and also rejuvenates the body with improved breathing.
Posted in BlogTagged Tips to cure Asthma with Yoga, Top 10 and best yoga asana to relieve Asthma, what causes asthma, yoga breathing exercises, yoga for asthma patients
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Address
AYM Yoga School
Goa, Ambola, village Khalcha-Wada, Opposit Alpesh Yoga, Breathing Center, House No: 474, Goa : 403524
Yogi Mahesh ji
yogi-sitting-in-a-chair
Read more.
1 2 3 … 221 Next »
Contact | .Xml |
Join our Newsletter
Follow Us
Copyright © 2019 Yoga Teacher Training Goa – OnePress theme by FameThemes