Highest quality ankle braces including the Active Ankle Brace, the ASO, Donjoy, and more
Catalog of Braces For Sports and Injuries
Searching... Please Wait
Knee Ankle Foot Shoulder Back Wrist Elbow Calf Thigh Heel Toe Thumb
Compression Shorts Cold Therapy Products HexPad Protective Sports Apparel
New Web Site OrthoPlex.com
ANKLE BRACES & ANKLE SUPPORTS
T2 Active Ankle Support
The T2 active ankle support, is state of the art ankle protection gear. It's feather light EVA padding system hugs every contour of the ankle for an incredibly snug, comfortable fit.
Trilok Ankle Brace by BioSkin
Controlling Three Motions:
Inversion
Plantar Flexion/Inversion
Eversion
NEW! Volt™ Active Ankle Brace
New gliding hinge works along with the carbon reinforced frame. Gliding hinges does not restrict ankle mobility and allows more fluid motion where you can get better performance. The Volt™ Ankle Brace by Active Ankle®.
DNS Dorsal Splint
Severe ankle sprains
Achilles tendonitis / repairs
Foot drop
Plantar fasciitis
ASO (Ankle Stabilizing Orthosis)
Superior support is achieved through exclusive non-stretch nylon stabilizing straps that mirror the stirrup technique of an athletic taping application.
Swede-O Ankle Lok
Only Swede-O has a patented off set Ankle Lok flap which when laced tightly pulls the ankle into position and holds it more securely than any other lace-up ankle brace.
Inner Lok 8 Ankle Brace by Swede-O
Super easy strap adjustment for a custom fit with solid support.
Exclusive internal figure eight straps are pre-configured to assure proper placement and support.
Fast and easy application of brace due to pre-configured internal straps.
Swede-O Arch Lok
Patented modified orthotic footplate provides critical foot and arch support.
Neutral arch position promotes healing of injured ligaments.
Unique four strap adjustment system of the side supports provide near custom fit.
Cooper II Ankle Support
Ankle Support for lateral and medial instability. Helps resist inversion and eversion. Allows for full dorsal and plantar flexion. Medial and lateral stabilization straps with hook and loop closures.
Airsport Ankle Brace by Aircast
Universal Ankle Stirrup by DonJoy
Can be used for acute ankle sprains, chronic ankle instabilities as well as prophylactic use. This low profile ankle brace, made of a rigid unified plastic outer shell, fits easily into all shoe types.
Velocity Ankle Support by Donjoy
The DonJoy Velocity Ankle Support is a low profile, lightweight ankle brace that prevents abnormal ankle inversion, eversion, and rotation while allowing natural, unrestricted dorsi- and plantar-flexion.
Aircast AirLift™ Ankle Stabilization
Foot support and ankle stabilization are provided by the AirLift integrated aircell and semi-rigid shells. The brace uses an innovative rear entry design which allows the patient to slip their foot into the back of the brace. Two straps secure the brace and can be used to adjust fit.
GEL-BAND® Stirrup Ankle Brace
The GEL-BAND® Stirrup Ankle Brace provides medial and lateral support to stabilize the ankle joint. Indicated to support the ankle following sprains, strains or after cast removal.
Lace-up RocketSoc® by Donjoy
Designed for stability, comfort and fit, the Lace-up RocketSoc® is ideal for chronic ankle sprains as well as prophylactic use.
Swede-O Atom Ankle brace
Better protection: Parabolic yoke design gives improved suppport and eliminates the need for extra support straps.
Aircast's Ankle Stirrup Support
Inflated aircells offer comfort and graduated compression with its therapeutic benefits. Worn with a laced shoe, the Air-Stirrup restricts inversion/eversion and permits normal flexion.
Stabilizing ankle support by Donjoy
The stabilizing ankle support features no-stretch nylon figure 8 straps which lock the calcaneus into place to help control abnormal eversion and inversion.
Wrap Around RocketSoc®
4-way stretch neoprene provides even compression for acute ankle sprains. Now available in Drytex® material or neoprene fabric.
The Allsport Ankle Ortho II
Provides exceptional support against inversion yet allows range of motion. Conforms to and cushions the malleolus and can be charged for hot or cold therapy.
Elastic Ankle Support by Donjoy
The Deluxe Elastic Ankle Support is a neoprene alternative, constructed of heavy-duty cotton elastic.
BioSkin's FASTER Ankle Brace
The FASTER ankle brace is perfect to protect your ankles and speed recovery after an ankle injury or surgery. The FASTER is compressive to reduce swelling and includes medial and lateral plastic stays to help maintain proper positioning of the ankle.
Element Ankle Brace by DeRoyal
Stirrup ankle support and lace up ankle brace in one.
Patented heel control strapping system holds the calcaneus under the talus controlling subtalar inversion and talar rotation.
V-Lock Ankle Brace by epX
High performance ankle stabilizer is constructed of epX base material for low-profile fit, making the support comfortable in any shoe.
Malleoloc Ankle Support
Malleoloc for lateral ankle instability. Designed to prevent inversion and eversion. Malleoloc does not restrict plantar and dorsiflexion. Excellent for sports use.
BREG Ankle Stirrup Support
The Ultra Ankle XT ankle brace is engineered to provide the perfect match between support and comfort to assist with stabilization of the ankle.
McDavid 433 Pull-On Anklet
McDavid's Dual Strap Ankle Support features a completely breathable pull-on anklet with two elastic 'figure 8' adjustable Velcro® straps for graduated support. Does not contain neoprene.
Ankle Brace Lock by BREG
An excellent alternative to tape, the ABL is ideal for mild to moderate ankle support for inversion and eversion injuries.
Rollblock Ankle Brace by Donjoy
Simulates athletic taping featuring a one-size-fits-all design, this ankle support helps prevent inversion and provides warmth and compression for strains and sprains. Excellent for prevention of recurrent injuries.
Ankle Trainer Brace
The GELBAND® Ankle Trainer Brace provides medial and lateral support to stabilize the ankle joint. Ideal as a preventative device during athletic activity to guard against injury or protect weak ankles from re-injury.
ASO Flex-Hinge Ankle Stabilizer
The upper portion of the internal plastic shell is incorporated into the eyelet lace closure to create an inner cuff around the tibia and fibula which resists separation of the tibia and fibula to help treat syndesmosis ankle sprains (high ankle sprains).
Webly Ankle Brace by Hely Weber
Stabilizing Ankle Orthosis for both prophylactic and chronic ankle sprain uses. Figure 8 pull-up straps provide ankle stability by locking the calcaneus in position. The Webly Ankle Brace has a seamless sole to help reduce irritation under the foot.
Lightweight Ankle Brace by McDavid
Favorite of athletes, trainers and coaches to replace tape and help prevent ankle injuries. This reduced-weight breakthrough actually breathes for cooler comfort.
McDavid 196 Soccer Ankle Brace
Shortened forefoot allows the contact crucial to good ball handling while providing ankle protection. Two layers of polyester/vinyl mesh. Spring steel stays. Available in black and white.
McDavid 188T Ultra Hinged Ankle Brace
Hinged ankle brace that features a pivot hinge and a lock down cuff for greater maneuverability, comfort and stability. It is lightweight, less invasive and more comfortable than other hinged braces yet the lock-down cuff provides a much more stable design. Treats and helps prevent all ankle injuries including high ankle sprains.
McDavid 189 Ankle X™
This ankle brace is so comfortable, you won’t know you have it on even after a full day of practice. A professional quality hinged ankle brace designed to treat all ankle injuries including high ankle sprains.
Malleolar Gel Sleeve by Silipos
Provides mild compression to help reduce swelling in and around the anklebone. Comfortably conforms over the ankle to moisturize your skin while they cushion and protect your ankle. Can be used to provide an additional protective layer to help prevent ankle injuries.
McDavid 195 Ultra Light Ankle Brace
Used to replace costly tape for injury prevention, it features a lightweight nylon/vinyl fabric shell with two "Figure 6" stirrup straps that may be adjusted at anytime during play without removing the shoe. These straps simulate a professional taping technique that lends additional support and protection for common injuries.
McDavid 430 Adjustable Ankle Strap
This Adjustable Ankle Strap is a popular one size product designed to fit from a woman's size 5 to a man's size 14 ankles. It has all the features and benefits of a basic neoprene support but also includes figure-8 straps for added support and compression.
McDavid 438 Ankle Wrap
This McDavid Ankle Wrap features universal sizing and a fully adjustable Velcro® closure for optimum fit. Contoured thermal neoprene wrap with nylon facing on both sides. Retains warmth and promotes healing.
McDavid 436 Achilles Tendon Support
This Achilles Tendon Support applies constant, mild compression at the Achilles tendon through the use of a unique tubular buttress. This helps relieve some dynamic forces caused by constant running and jumping. Designed for minor to moderate pain associated with Achilles tendonitis, usually a result of overuse.
McDavid 191 Universal Ankle Support
Wrap around Velcro® straps provide extra support and compression. It has all the features and benefits of a basic neoprene support but also includes removable stays to provide added rigidity that may be removed after recovery.
Active Ankle® Power Lacer Ankle Support
To correctly address the mechanics of an ankle sprain you must control both the heel and the forefoot. Ideal for athletes who prefer the comfort and mobility of a lace up but desire added support provided by controlling both the heel and forefoot.
Bioskin's Visco Figure 8 Ankle Support
The Visco ankle is a pull on Bio Skin sock designed for reducing edema. The Figure 8 wrap gives extra compression and support.
GridIron Ultra Ankle Brace by BREG
Engineered to provide maximum ankle stabilization while wearing outdoor cleats on an unpredictable surface such as a football or lacrosse field. This rigid, high performance model will benefit offensive linemen and lacrosse players.
Indications:
High ankle sprains.
Syndesmotic ankle sprains.
Grade 2 and 3 ankle sprains.
AchilloStabil® Ankle Support by BORT
Three-dimensional form-knitted dual-tension elastic bandage with especially padded seam. Pressure relief of achilles tendon and intermittent massage effect for better blood circulation.
Indications: Acute and chronic achillodynia, postoperative (follow-up treatment) after ruptures.
Chameleon Active Ankle Braces
You don't have to buy one of each color. Just buy one base color brace (white or black) and receive all eight colorful straps. They are removable and stay firmly in place. The proven design of the Chameleon brace provides a comfortable combination of convenience and strength, and is recommended for anyone seeking to prevent ankle injury.
Achillotrain Achilles Tendonitis
Indications: Achilles tendonitis, Acute Achilles paratendonits, Achillobursitis, Post-operative treatment after Achilles tendon ruptures, Posterior Achilles tendon bursitis.
DASB2 Sports Ankle Brace by DeRoyal
For prevention or treatment of acute ankle strains, and sprains. Lace up design for a snug fit and primary stabilization. Low profile design allows use in athletic shoe.
DeRoyal Air Stirrup Ankle Support
Rigid medial and lateral shells minimize ankle rotation. Air bladder allows for simple adjustment of air with inflation bulb. Features swivel straps to allow even compression when applying leg straps in the opposite direction.
Tuli's Cheetahs
At last, shock absorption and ankle support in one lightweight unit. Cheetahs are a dynamic and revolutionary new combination of shock absorption and lightweight neoprene support. Cheetahs are ideal for athletes, gymnasts, or anyone who works or plays on their feet.
Ankle CryoCuff
Aircast Cryo/Cuff system applies controlled "safe compression" to minimize hemarthrosis and swelling, and cold to minimize pain.
BioFlex Magnetic Ankle Support
Made of neoprene, and contains 2 BIOflex® concentric circle magnets. One size fits most, Ideal for foot and ankle pain.
Healwell Night Splint
Can be used for the following conditions:
Plantar Fasciitis, Achilles Tendinitis, Plantarflexion Contractures, Heel Spurs, Equinous Conditions, Pronation Syndromes, Muscle Tightening and Runner's Cramp.
Equalizer® Premium Air Walker
Patented pneumatic system increases stability while decreasing pain and swelling. Air is easily adjusted to achieve desired compression and custom fit. Available in low top or regular length styles.
Indications: Grade 2 and 3 ankle sprains, Stable Fractures.
New Web Site OrthoPlex.com
Home Page
Shipping Guarantees Email Us
Sizing Guarantees
Return Policy
Low Price Guarantees
Check out our Volleyball
Special page
Disclaimer Copyright