Update Diet and Prostate Cancer Prevention - University Health News
Home
Daily
Aging & Independence
Bones & Joints
Cancer
COPD
Depression
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Energy and Fatigue
Eyes, Ears, Nose & Throat
Gluten Free & Food Allergies
Heart Health
Memory
Mobility & Fitness
Nutrition
Pain
Prostate
Sleep
Stress & Anxiety
Free Guides
Bone and Joint Conditions: Gout symptoms, osteoarthritis treatments, rheumatoid arthritis pain relief, and more
Men’s Prostate Health: BPH, prostatitis and prostate cancer symptoms, screenings, treatment, and more
Panic Attack Symptoms and Anxiety Symptoms: How to deal with anxiety and how to relieve stress
Sleeping Disorders: Narcolepsy, sleep apnea test, snoring solutions, insomnia cures, and more
View all Reports »
Article Archive
Health Publications
Health Reports
My Library
Account
Authors
Browse Topics
Glossary
Keyword Index
Contact Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
Member?
Login
Home
Daily
Free Guides
Health Publications
Health Reports
My Library
Subscriber Sign In Sign Up
Nutrition
From the September 2009 issue of Environmental Nutrition (EN)
Update Diet and Prostate Cancer Prevention
Previous
Next
• August 5, 2009
Add Comment
Total: 0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Digg
Del
StumbleUpon
Tumblr
VKontakte
Print
Email
Flattr
Reddit
Buffer
Love This
Weibo
Pocket
Xing
Odnoklassniki
ManageWP.org
WhatsApp
Meneame
Blogger
Amazon
Yahoo Mail
Gmail
AOL
Newsvine
HackerNews
Evernote
MySpace
Mail.ru
Viadeo
Line
Flipboard
Comments
Yummly
SMS
Viber
Telegram
Subscribe
Skype
Facebook Messenger
Kakao
LiveJournal
Yammer
Edgar
x
Since EN’s last coverage on diet and prostate cancer risk, some new findings have come to light. During the past several years, a large number of studies have looked at the potential role that diet can play in preventing prostate cancer, sometimes with conflicting results. Australian researchers hoped to clarify this issue in their systematic review published in the Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics in June 2009. Scientific data for promising dietary therapies in prostate cancer prevention were reviewed. The researchers concluded that the best diet for preventing prostate cancer is one that is low in fat and high in vegetables and fruits, and avoids high-calorie intake and excessive meat, dairy products and calcium.
Lycopene in the Limelight. One plant compound that’s been singled out in the war against prostate cancer is lycopene, an antioxidant pigment found in tomatoes and other red fruits. The best source of lycopene is in tomato products, because the heat processing makes it more available to the body. Lycopene is just one possible nutrient that may be behind the protective effects of a diet packed with fruits and vegetables. The case for lycopene is strong enough that the American Institute for Cancer Research judges lycopene to be probable in reducing the risk of prostate cancer. Diets high in lycopene-containing foods (not supplements) could prevent 11 percent of prostate cancers.
The Selenium Question. More questions than answers swirl around the mineral, selenium, and its efficacy for prostate cancer prevention. Some trials on selenium supplements have shown it reduces prostate cancer risk. However, the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT), a $118-million clinical trial funded by the National Institutes of Health to investigate whether the supplement could help prevent prostate cancer, showed different results. More than 35,000 men at 400 sites enrolled between 2001 and 2004 in SELECT. Initially planned for a follow-up of seven to 12 years, the participants were told in the fall of 2008 to stop taking their supplements, because it was found that selenium and vitamin E, taken alone or together, did not prevent prostate cancer.
Further, a study that evaluated 489 prostate cancer patients was published in the June 2009 issue of the Journal of Clinical Oncology. Researchers discovered that a high level of selenium in the blood was associated with a slightly higher risk of aggressive prostate cancer. The risk was particularly higher in men who also had a variant of the gene coding for manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2). The scientists urged men with prostate cancer to use caution when considering selenium supplements.
A Weighty Issue. Previous studies have suggested that obese men have a higher risk of a more aggressive form of prostate cancer and that weight loss can cut the risk significantly. A new Swedish study reiterates the significance of weight in prostate cancer risk. More than 10,000 initially cancer-free men from Sweden’s Lund University’s Malm? Diet and Cancer cohort were followed for an average of 11 years. The scientists found that body height and waist to hip ratio, a measurement of fat around the abdomen, was a stronger indicator of prostate cancer risk than general adiposity.
EN’s Bottom Line. For now, it looks like the best lifestyle strategy to guard against prostate cancer is to focus on a variety of plant foods (particularly those containing lycopene), limit high-calorie foods, avoid excessive fat, dairy and meat intake; stay physically active, maintain a healthy weight with particular attention to abdominal fat accumulation, and use caution with supplements like selenium Turns out that’s also the best odds diet for just about everyone.
Previous
Next
Article Meta Data
Tags aggressive prostate cancer, antioxidant, best diet, calcium, cancer, cancer prevention, cancer research, cancer risk, cancers, dairy, diet, diet and cancer, health, healthy weight, lycopene, nutrition, Prostate, prostate cancer, prostate cancer prevention, prostate cancer risk, risk of prostate cancer, selenium, supplement, supplements, the best diet, vegetables, vitamin, vitamin e.
Comments
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Comment
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Best Catch of the Day: EN’s Guide to Eco-friendly, Healthy and Safe Fish
The Pleasure Principal?Can You Really Have Your Cake and Eat It, Too?
Global Report: One-Third of U.S. Cancers are Preventable
Nutrition Profiling?Can It Help You Make Better Choices?
Study Puts BPA in Plastics Under New Scrutiny
Food, Inc.
Update Diet and Prostate Cancer Prevention
A Taste of the Orient?How Asian Convenience Foods Rate
What’s with Isolated Fibers, Do They Live Up to Their High-Fiber Status?
Unlocking the Mysteries of the Health-Protective Effects of Olive Oil
Asian Pears, A Pear by Any Other Name
Reseach Roundup: September 2009
×
Enter Your Log In Credentials
Email
Password
Remember Me
This setting should only be used on your home or work computer.
Lost password? Create New Password
No password? Sign up
×
×
Please Log In
You are trying to access subscribers-only content. If you are a subscriber, use the form below to log in.
Subscribers will have unlimited access to the magazine that helps people live more sustainable, self-reliant lives, with feature stories on tending the garden, managing the homestead, raising healthy livestock and more!
Username
Password
Remember Me
This setting should only be used on your home or work computer.
Lost your password? Create New Password
No password? Subscribe
×
Please Log In
You are trying to access subscribers-only content. If you are a subscriber, use the form below to log in.
Subscribers will have unlimited access to the magazine that helps the small-scale poultry enthusiast raise healthy, happy, productive flocks for eggs, meat or fun - from the countryside to the urban homestead!
Username
Password
Remember Me
This setting should only be used on your home or work computer.
Lost your password? Create New Password
No password? Subscribe
Account
About Us
Privacy Policy
Author Index
Article Archive
RSS Feed
Glossary
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 University Health News
Send this to a friend
Your email Recipient email Your message
Hi,
I thought you might be interested in this article on https://universityhealthnews.com: Update Diet and Prostate Cancer Prevention
-- Read the story at https://universityhealthnews.com/topics/nutrition-topics/update-diet-and-prostate-cancer-prevention/
Send
Cancel