January | 2018 | Arizona Music Therapy Association
Home
About
What is Music Therapy?
AZMTA Executive Board
Music Therapy in the News
American Music Therapy Assoc
Western Region (WRAMTA)
Join AZMTA!
Events
Music Therapist Directory
Contact Us
Arizona Music Therapy Association > Music Therapy in the News > 2018 > January
Articles for January 2018
The Impact of Music Therapy on Mental Health
Date: January 21, 2018 Author: AZMTA
By Molly Warren, MM, LPMT, MT-BC | Dec. 19, 2016
When I worked at a psychiatric hospital, I would wheel my cart full of instruments and musical gadgets down the hallway every morning. Patients lingering in the hall would smile and tap on a drum as I passed by. Some would ask me if I had their favorite band on my iPad. Some would peek their heads out of their rooms, and exclaim, “Molly’s here! It’s time for music therapy group!” Oftentimes, I would hear about patients who were asleep in their rooms when I arrived, but their friends would gently wake them with a reassurance: “You don’t want to miss this.”
Music to My Ears
I’ve been lucky to serve many children and adults in various mental health settings as a music therapist. I’ve heard stories of resilience, strength and adversity. I’ve worked with individuals who have experienced trauma, depression, grief, addiction and more. These individuals have not come to me in their finest hour, but despite feeling lost or broken, music provided them with the opportunity for expression and for experiencing safety, peace and comfort.
Research shows the benefits of music therapy for various mental health conditions, including depression, trauma, and schizophrenia(to name a few). Music acts as a medium for processing emotions, trauma, and grief—but music can also be utilized as a regulating or calming agent for anxiety or for dysregulation.
There are four major interventions involved with music therapy:
Lyric Analysis
While talk therapy allows a person to speak about topics that may be difficult to discuss, lyric analysis introduces a novel and less-threatening approach to process emotions, thoughts and experiences. A person receiving music therapy is encouraged to offer insight, alternative lyrics and tangible tools or themes from lyrics that can apply to obstacles in their life and their treatment. We all have a song that we deeply connect to and appreciate—lyric analysis provides an opportunity for an individual to identify song lyrics that may correlate with their experience.
Improvisation Music Playing
Playing instruments can encourage emotional expression, socialization and exploration of various therapeutic themes (i.e. conflict, communication, grief, etc.). For example, a group can create a “storm” by playing drums, rain sticks, thunder tubes and other percussive instruments. The group can note areas of escalation and de-escalation in the improvisation, and the group can correlate the “highs and lows” of the storm to particular feelings they may have. This creates an opportunity for the group to discuss their feelings further.
Active Music Listening
Music can be utilized to regulate mood. Because of its rhythmic and repetitive aspects, music engages the neocortex of our brain, which calms us and reduces impulsivity. We often utilize music to match or alter our mood. While there are benefits to matching music to our mood, it can potentially keep us stuck in a depressive, angry or anxious state. To alter mood states, a music therapist can play music to match the current mood of the person and then slowly shift to a more positive or calm state.
Songwriting
Songwriting provides opportunities for expression in a positive and rewarding way. Anyone can create lyrics that reflect their own thoughts and experiences, and select instruments and sounds that best reflect the emotion behind the lyrics. This process can be very validating, and can aid in building self-worth. This intervention can also instill a sense of pride, as someone listens to their own creation.
On Another Note
When I worked at a residential treatment center, I was notified that a child refused to continue meeting with his usual therapist. Even though he was initially hesitant to meet with me, he soon became excited for our music therapy sessions.
In our first session, we decided to look at the lyrics of “Carry On” by FUN. I asked him to explain what it means to be a “shining star,” which is mentioned serval times in the song. I was expecting this 8-year-old to tell me something simple, like “it means you’re special.” But he surprised me when he stated, matter-of-factly: “It means that you are something others notice. It means you are something to look up to, and you are something that helps others navigate.”
And just like that: This lyric offered the opportunity to discuss self-worth, resilience, and strength. Music provided him with the structure and opportunity to process in an engaging way. Soon, his therapist began attending our sessions to help build a healthier therapeutic relationship. His family and teachers reported improved emotion regulation and social interaction skills. Music therapy had provided countless opportunities for building healthy relationships, just as it has for thousands of others.
Try it for yourself! Check out the American Music Therapy Association to find a board certified or licensed music therapist near you.
Molly Warren, MM, LPMT, MT-BC received her Master’s in Music Therapy with a focus in Psychology from Colorado State University. Warren specializes in working with individuals with trauma and neglect backgrounds and other behavioral disorders. She also has experience in working in an acute psychiatric facility in which she has worked with adult, adolescent, and pediatric general mental health populations. Her philosophy is to introduce novel and authentic modalities to best reach the needs of her clients to create a genuine and individualized experience. Warren currently works in her own private practice, Olive Branch Therapeutic Services. You can visit her website at www.olivebranchtherapeuticservices.com
Website Search
Go
Latest Articles
Save the Date!
August 27th, 2018
8 yo cancer patients finds voice courage in music therapy
March 4th, 2018
Imagine Dragons jams with music therapy patients at Mesa children's hospital
March 4th, 2018
Music Therapy for Arizona Veterans
March 4th, 2018
The Impact of Music Therapy on Mental Health
January 21st, 2018
News From AMTA
AMTA-pro Podcast: Getting Your Research Published April 15, 2019
AMTA-pro Podcast: A Quick Reference Guide for Lyric Analysis April 5, 2019
Music Therapy Advocacy in March April 4, 2019
AMTA-pro Podcast: Collaboration in Clinical Practice & Research March 18, 2019
AMTA-pro Podcast: Respite for Families with Dementia March 12, 2019
Categories
Music Therapy News
Uncategorized
Archives
August 2018
March 2018
January 2018
March 2016
August 2014
February 2013
Tags
dementia and music therapy Music Therapy Music Therapy News
Mission: To support the aims and objectives of the American Music Therapy Association (AMTA).
AZMTA promotes the professional interests and needs of Music Therapists, instilling ethical standards and professional growth of its members and advocating for persons that would benefit from Music Therapy Services.
Copyright © 2013-2018 AZMTA - All rights reserved. Website created by Tonkinsongs