A Quick Guide to L-Theanine - Blog - iHerb.com
header_search header_signed-out header_signed-in header_cart sharefilled circlex circleexclamation iherbleaf
10% Loyalty Credit on Every Order! View Details
Free Shipping for orders over $20
checkoutarrow
US
EN
USD
Image Coming Soon
Added to Cart
Total:
Discount:
Together:
Quantity:
Cart Total:
Checkout
Customers Also Bought:
Share
You are now signed in!
Share the link below with your Rewards code attached, and your referrals will receive an instant discount, while you earn Rewards credit! Read More
iHerb customers: Split an extra 10% credit with others via your rewards account.
Sign in or Read More.
Continue sharing without signing in
Copy
Shorten URL
Shorten URL
Sign In
My Account
My Account
Orders
Lists
My Reviews
My Page
My Questions
My Answers
Rewards
Messages
Sign Out
Create an Account
Sign In
24/7 Help
Search History
Clear
Trending
Supplements
Herbs & Homeopathy
Bath & Personal Care
Beauty
Sports
Grocery
Baby & Kids
Pets
Home
Brands
Health Topics
Specialty Stores
New
Best Sellers
Specials
Trial Items
Gifts
Why iHerb?
Browser Upgrade Notice
As part of our ongoing efforts to improve security for our customers, your current browser version will no longer be supported for iHerb starting 7/1/2018. Upgrade your existing browser using links below.
FireFox
Chrome
Edge
Internet Explorer
Safari
Remind me later
Do not show again
iherblogo beauty2 heart-circle sports-fitness food-nutrition herbs-supplements
Beauty
Wellness
Fitness
Nutrition
Conditions
Select a Category
Beauty
Wellness
Fitness
Nutrition
Conditions
Wellness
A Quick Guide to L-Theanine
May 14 2018
Everyday stress is a normal part of modern living. Job pressures; family arguments; financial pressures; traffic, and time management are just a few of the "stressors" we are faced with on a daily basis. For some people, the stress can be overwhelming leading to feelings of anxiety and insomnia. Fortunately, there are safe and effective natural approaches that produce immediate results when we are feeling “stressed out.” One of the top recommendations is L-theanine.
L-theanine, a unique amino acid found almost exclusively in tea plants (Camellia sinensis), is emerging as one of the premier natural compounds to relieve stress and anxiety. In green tea, L-theanine is the primary amino acid comprising between 1 to 2% of the dry weight of tea leaves. In dietary supplements, highly purified forms of L-theanine are produced via a fermentation process that mimics the natural process in green tea leaves.
L-theanine: A Gentle, Natural “Stress Buster”
The effects of L-theanine are truly amazing. Clinical studies have demonstrated that L-theanine reduces stress, improves the quality of sleep, diminishes the symptoms of the premenstrual syndrome, heightens mental acuity and reduces negative side effects of caffeine. These clinical effects are directly related to L-theanine’s ability to stimulate the production of alpha brain wave activity. This helps people feel calm and centered, focused and mentally energized. It also reduces beta-waves activity associated with nervousness, scattered thoughts, and hyperactivity.
In Japan, L-theanine has been approved for use for decades as an aid to conquer stress and promote relaxation. It is a very is a popular ingredient in functional foods and beverages in Japan as well as in dietary supplements designed to produce mental and physical relaxation, without inducing drowsiness. L-theanine is fast-acting. Generally, the effects are felt within the first 30 minutes, and have been shown to last up to 8 to 12 hours.
At typical dosages, e.g., 100-200 mg L-theanine does not act as a sedative, but it does significantly improve sleep quality. In one double-blind study, L-theanine at a dosage of 200 mg was shown to produce statistically significant improvements in sleep efficiency, an index of actual sleep time enjoyed between the time of falling asleep and nighttime awakenings.
L-Theanine is a Specialty Brain Booster for Kids
Like adults, children are exposed to stressors and pressures on a daily basis. Temporary, minor stress is not harmful and most kids are able to deal with it well. In contrast, prolonged daily minor stresses accumulate and become as damaging as severe stressful events, even going as far as damaging physical, emotional and mental health. A general feeling of uncertainty can leave kids feeling higher levels of anxiety and depression.
L-Theanine stimulates the production of alpha brain waves as well as reduces beta waves (associated with nervousness, scattered thoughts and hyperactivity). It is particularly helpful in providing help for children who have trouble falling asleep and staying asleep because their minds refuse to shut down at night. A recent study conducted at the University of British Columbia demonstrated that 200 mg twice daily of L-theanine is safe and effective in improving some aspects of sleep quality in boys aged 8-12 years diagnosed with attention deficit disorder (ADHD). Since sleep problems are a common in children with Attention Deficit Disorder, and because disturbed sleep may worsen this disorder, L-theanine may represent a safe and important adjunctive therapy in childhood Attention Deficit Disorder.
Dosage Recommendations
Based on the results of clinical studies, it has been established that L-theanine is effective in the range of 50 - 200 mg. If a person has higher levels of stress it is often recommended that they take at least 100 to 200 mg one to three times daily. Although L-theanine is completely safe and without any known adverse drug interaction, as a general guideline it is recommended to take no more than 600 mg within a 6-hour period and no more than 1,200 mg within a 24 hour period.
This article was written by Dr. Michael Murray, one of the world’s leading authorities on natural medicine. For the past thirty-five years, Dr. Murray has been compiling a massive database of original scientific studies from medical literature. He has personally collected over 65,000 articles from the scientific literature, which provide strong evidence on the effectiveness of diet, vitamins, minerals, herbs and other natural measures in the maintenance of health and the treatment of disease. It is from this constantly expanding database that Dr. Murray provides the answers on health and healing on DoctorMurray.com. Visit Dr. Murray's iHerb Page here.
Previous Article
Tips for Getting Six-Pack Abs
Next Article
Discover the Benefits of the Mediterranean Diet
Shop this article
Share this Article
Related Articles
View All
Wellness
4 Steps to Better Gut Health
April 19 2019
You know the importance of what you eat and how it impacts the rest of your body.
Wellness
The Best Herbs to Help with Stress
April 8 2019
Stress affects us all every day when we’re dealing with the challenges of work, family or illness, and even at times of excitement, like when starting a new job or planning a wedding.
Wellness
Melatonin – Not Just for Sleep
April 4 2019
The neurohormone Melatonin is best known as a gentle, natural sleep aid. Unlike many prescription sleeping pills, melatonin is not addicting and does not cause withdrawal symptoms.
Search
Categories
Browse our blog posts by category:
Select a Category Beauty Wellness Fitness Nutrition Conditions
Share
Disclaimer
This blog is not intended to provide diagnosis, treatment or medical advice. Content provided on this blog is for informational purposes only. Please consult with a physician or other healthcare professional regarding any medical or health related diagnosis or treatment options. Information on this blog should not be considered as a substitute for advice from a healthcare professional. The claims made about specific products throughout this blog are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent disease.
Shop this article
Give & Get 10%
Learn more
ABOUT iHERB
About Us
Press Releases
We Give Back
Rewards Program
Affiliate Program
Careers
Brand Contacts
iHERB RESOURCES
iHerb Blog
Community
Healthy Links
Customer Service
Contact Us
Shipping Information
Wholesale
Suggest a Product
MOBILE APPS
CONNECT WITH US
Ask a Question
Find answers from our knowledge base.
Get Help Now »
iHerb.com © Copyright 1997-2019 iHerb Inc. All rights reserved. iHerb® is a registered trademark of iHerb, Inc. Trusted Brands. Healthy Rewards. and the iHerb.com Trusted Brands. Healthy Rewards. Logo are trademarks of iHerb, Inc. *Disclaimer: Statements made, or products sold through this website, have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. They are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Read More »
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your California Privacy Rights Supply Chains Act