Reduced Folates
We use cookies to help provide you with the best possible online experience. By using this site, you agree that we may store and access cookies on your device. You can find out more about how to set your own preferences here.
Accept cookies
Press area Contact us Jobs Sustainability Search
Home About us Competencies Services Products Events & News
Home About us Competencies Services Products Events & News Press area Contact us Jobs Sustainability Special Event
Home Products Reduced Folates
Reduced Folates
[[ currentOption ]] USE DETAILED USE REFERENCES USE
Chemical division
Reduced Folates
The Vitamin Folic Acid 1, which occurs ubiquitously in nature, especially in yeast, liver and green vegetables, is not active as such in the mammalian body, but is reduced enzymatically to 5,6,7,8-Tetrahydrofolic Acid 2: this coenzyme form acts as a carrier for various one-carbon units.
These endogenous reduced folates participate in important metabolic reactions like the de novo purine and pyrimidine biosynthesis and also the biosynthesis of proteinogenic amino acids: for example 5-Methyl-tetrahydrofolic acid 3 acts as the methyl-group donor in the biosynthesis of Methionine.
Oncological Use
Two main uses of reduced folates in the oncological field can be cited:
as antidotes to Folic Acid antagonists, such as Methotrexate (“rescue therapy”), used in the treatment of certain neoplastic diseases, psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis.
as biochemical modulators prescribed in synergistic combination with the chemotherapy agent 5-Fluorouracil in treating colorectal cancer (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI regimen)
Nutritional Use
Folate deficiencies can typically occur in several different situations, like:
inadequate nutrition
absorption or utilization (i.e after treatment with high doses of the antimetabolite Methotrexate)
increased requirements (pregnancy, lactation, malignancy).
The consequences of a folate deficiency can be: birth defects (i.e. “spina bifida”), megaloblastic anemia, some types of depression,….. (see below).
In all cases of deficiency or to prevent deficiency, the folate pool can be advantageously replenished by oral administration of a reduced folate, like Calcium Folinate 4 (see for example: “Development of Human Folate Deficiency”, V.Herbert et al., Folic Acid Metabolism in Human Health an Disease, 195-210. (1990)).
Print document Share on linkedin
DETAILED USE
The most common uses of reduced folates are:
Rescue therapy after high dose Methotrexate (oncological use or treatment of rheumatoid arthritis) (1)
Combination with 5-Fluorouracil and Oxaliplatin (oncological use) (2,11)
Prevention of neural tube defects (nutritional use) (3,9)
Treatment of folate deficiencies like megaloblastic anemia
Treatment of Dihydropteridinreductase deficiency (4)
Prevention and/or treatment of cardiovascular disease derived from high total serum homocysteine concentrations (5, 6,9,12)
Prevention and/or treatment of Alzheimer disease related to high total serum homocysteine concentrations (6,9)
Improvement of endothelial function in coronary artery disease via a mechanism independent from homocysteine lowering (5)
Prevention of colorectal cancer (7)
Treatment of depressive disorders (8)
Treatment of cerebral folate deficiency (10)
Number between parenthesis indicate the reference in the next tab.
Print document Share on linkedin
REFERENCES
(a) J.H.Schornagel, J.G.McVie, "The clinical Pharmacology of Methotrexate", Cancer treatment reviews, 10, (1983), 53. (b) S.L.Whittle, R.A.Hughes, “Folate supplementation and methotrexate treatment in rheumatoid arthritis”, Rheumatology, 43, no.3, (2004), 267-271
(a) Y.M.Rustum, "Fluoropyrimidines in Cancer Therapy", (Series: Cancer Drug Discovery and Development), Humana Press (2002). (b) Oxaliplatin plus high dose folinic acid and 5-FU i.v. bolus (OXAFAFU) versus irinotecan plus high dose folinic acid and 5-FU i.v. bolus (IRIFAFU) in patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma: a Southern Italy Cooperative Oncology Group phase III trial.
Geneva Foundation of Medical Education and Research: "Neural Tube Defects, Folic Acid". See: http://www.gfmer.ch/Guidelines/Pregnancy_newborn/Neural_tube_defects_folic_acid.htm
R.C.Woody, M.A.Brewster, C.Glasier, "Progressive intracranial calcification in dihydropteridine reductase deficiency prior to folinic therapy", Neurology, 39, (1989),673-675.
S.J.Moat, D.Lang, I.F.W.McDowell, Z.L.Clarke, A.K.Madhavan, M.J.Lewis, J.Goodfellow, "Folate, homocysteine, endothelial function and cardiovascular disease", Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry, 15, (2004), 64-79 and refs cited therein.
(a) M.Gallucci, A.Zanardo, L.DeValentin, A.Vianello, "Homocysteine in Alzheimer Disease and Vascular Dementia",Arch.Gerontol.Geriatr.,Suppl. 9, (2004), 195-200. (b) P.Quadri, C.Fragiacomo, R.Pezzati, E.Zanda, G.Forloni, M.Tettamanti, "Homocysteine, folate and vitamin B-12 in mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia", Am J Clin Nutr, 80, (2004), 114-22.
Young-In Kim, "Folate, Colorectal Carcinogenesis and DNA Methylation: Lessons from Animal Studies", Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis, 44, (2004), 10-25.
M.J.Taylor, S.M.Carney, G.M.Goodwin, J.R.Geddes, "Folate for depressive disorders: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials", J Psychopharmacology, 18, (2004), 251-6.
(a) S.W.Bailey et al., "Pharmacokinetics of oral folic acid compared to 5-Methyl-(6S)-tetrahydrofolate in human plasma",FASEB journal, Vol.19, nr.4, suppl. S, Part1, (2005), A52. and ibid. "Urinary folate excretion after oral doses of folic acid or 5-Methyl-6(S)-tetrahydrofolate in humans". (b) A.J.Wright et al., “Folic acid metabolism in human subjects revisited: potential implications for proposed mandatory folic acid fortifications in the UK”, British Journal of Nutrition, (2007), 98, 667-675.
P.Moretti et al., "Cerebral folate deficiency with developmental delay, autism and response to folinic acid", Neurology, Vol. 64, (2005), 1088-90.
K.Farker et al., "Chronomodulated chemotherapy with oxaliplatin, 5-FU and sodium folinate in metastatic gastrointestinal cancer patients: analysis of non-hematological toxicity and patient characteristics in a pilot investigation", International Journal of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Vol.44, (2006), 31-37.
B.Akoglu et al., “The folic acid metabolite L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate effectively reduces total serum homocysteine level in orthotopic liver transplant recipients: a double-blind placebo controlled study”, European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Vol. 62, (2008), 796-801.
Print document Share on linkedin
Related content
Similar products
Levomefolate Free Acid Calcium Levofolinate Calcium Levomefolate Calcium Folinate Calcium Mefolinate
News
Cerbios appoints Annalisa Miracca as Director of Marketing & Sales Chemical Division Successful launch of Cerbios’ products in Pakistan Successfull FDA general cGMP Inspection
Contact us
Inquiry form
Home About us Competencies Services Products Events & News
Contacts
CERBIOS - PHARMA SA,
Via Figino 6,
CH-6917 Barbengo / Lugano,
Switzerland
Phone: +41 91 985 63 11
Fax: +41 91 985 63 25
Follow us:
© 2016 Copyright -
Disclaimer | Privacy | Credits