Are Natural Remedies Useful for Depression? | Menopause Now
Menopause Now All about each symptom of menopause
Symptoms
Allergies
Anxiety
Bloating
Breast Pain
Brittle Nails
Burning Tongue
Changes in Odor
Depression
Difficulty Concentrating
Digestive Problems
Dizziness
Electric Shocks
Fatigue
Gum Problems
Hair Loss
Headaches
Hot Flashes
Incontinence
Irregular Heartbeat
Irregular Periods
Irritability
Itchy Skin
Joint Pain
Loss of Libido
Memory Lapses
Mood Swings
Muscle Tension
Night Sweats
Osteoporosis
Panic Disorder
Sleep Disorders
Tingling Extremities
Vaginal Dryness
Weight Gain
All Menopause Symptoms
Stages
Premenopause
Perimenopause
Menopause
Postmenopause
Early Menopause
Premature Menopause
About Stages
Home
Menopause Symptoms
Depression
Are Natural Remedies Useful for Depression?
Sections
Depression Overview
About Depression
Definition
Types
Risk Factors
Signs and Symptoms
Physical
Emotional
Behavioral
Top 10 Signs
When to Seek Help
Causes of Depression
Hormonal Causes
Other Causes
Depression Treatments
Depression Articles
Share
Tweet
Pin
Depression is a serious mental disease that is characterized by the persistent, overpowering feelings of sadness, hopelessness, and apathy. According to the World Health Organization, depression is considered a global epidemic, affecting around 5% of the world population. There is no one definitive cause of depression, but rather, it is a disorder that develops over time and can be triggered by stress, unhealthy lifestyle, hormonal fluctuations, and other factors. While there are many treatments for depression out there, this article will highlight the best natural remedies for depression and compare them to other treatments.
Pin
Depression
Depression symptoms can be physical, emotional, or both. Physical symptoms of depression include fatigue, insomnia, changes in appetite, body aches, cramps, and headaches. Emotional symptoms include thoughts of suicide, irritability, loss of interest in hobbies, and feelings of helplessness, guilt, and worry.
Natural Remedies
Natural remedies may be helpful for treating mild depression. These include:
1
Yoga or tai chi
Studies suggest that yoga can reduce the impact of excessive stress and may be helpful for treating depression. By reducing stress and anxiety, yoga and tai chi appear to lessen stress response systems. This consequently lowers the heart rate, decreases blood pressure, and eases respiration. Yoga has also been shown to release serotonin, which is the "feel-good" neurotransmitter that is secreted during exercise.
2
Exercise
Exercising regularly releases serotonin and endorphins in the brain, which promote good feelings. Exercising also offers other health benefits, such as lifting mood, improving sleep quality, increasing energy, and reducing stress. The general recommendation is to get at least 30 minutes of aerobic exercise at least five times a week. Cycling, swimming, and walking are all good low-impact exercises.
3
Herbal remedies
There are certain herbs that have been used traditionally to help reduce depression symptoms. St. John's wort is widely used for treating depression. Kava root is also known to help ease anxiety symptoms by promoting relaxation and easing tension.
4
Support groups
Knowing you are not alone is a big part of fighting depression. Going to support groups can be very beneficial because you meet people who are experiencing similar things, and they can offer helpful advice.
Other Treatments
There are many treatments for depression available, and natural remedies may not always be enough. However, they can be used to complement the following treatment methods:
1
Psychotherapy
There are many types of psychotherapy, but they essentially involve examining and talking about your past in order to treat present problems. Psychotherapy aims to help you learn more about yourself and improve interpersonal relationships by promoting positive thinking.
2
Medication
Doctors can prescribe appropriate medication for depression relative to your condition. Typically, a combination of antidepressants and talk therapy is recommended.
Depression affects nearly 10% of American adults on average. Unlike the occasional sad mood, depression is a constant psychological state that can interfere with daily life. Natural remedies - like herbal supplements and exercise - can be very useful in treating depression. It is important to consider all of the different treatment options out there in order to find which one (or combination) works best given your symptoms. Read complete approaches for treating depression.
Sources
Harvard Health Publications. (2009). Yoga for anxiety and depression. Retrieved November 24, 2014, from http://www.health.harvard.edu/newsletters/Harvard_Mental_Health_Letter/2009/April/Yoga-for-anxiety-and-depression
National Health Service UK. (2014). Treating clinical depression. Retrieved November 24, 2014, from http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Depression/Pages/Treatment.aspx
National Institute of Mental Health. (n.d). What Is Depression? Retrieved November 24, 2014, from https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml
Treatments for Depression
Depression Overview
Other Related Articles:
Myths and Facts about Seasonal Depression
Is Yoga Useful to Treat Depression during Menopause?
Signs and Symptoms of Depression and Bipolar Disorder
How Is Clinical Depression Different From Sadness?
Are Vitamins the Solution for Depression?
Share
Tweet
Pin
Depression and Anxiety during Perimenopause
Anxiety and depression can become serious medical conditions and they widely impact women, including during menopause.
Natural Remedies for Depression during Menopause
Natural remedies, like exercise and herbal remedies, can be beneficial for treating depression. Keep reading to learn more.
How to Deal with Your Wife's Depression during Menopause
Living with depression is painful, and it can be hard to help your partner if they are depressed. Click here for ways to support a depressed partner.
MenopauseNow.com
MenopauseNow.com is dedicated to providing reliable, up-to-date information and advice on the most common topics in women's health, including PMS, menopause, natural hormones, hormonal conditions, and fertility.
Additional Information
About
Privacy
Terms of use
Sitemap
Find us on
©Copyright 2019. MenopauseNow.com. All Rights Reserved.
The content of these informational pages is for educational purposes and health care support only and does not intend to be used for diagnosis or treatment of a health problem or as substitute for consulting a licensed medical professional.