Hair Growth Drugs – Toronto Wigs | Shopping for Wigs and Hairpieces
Skip to content
Toronto Wigs | Shopping for Wigs and Hairpieces
A Toronto Wigs Store blog about wigs and hairpieces with links to shopping and services.
Menu
Shop Wigs Here
Custom Wig Design
About Us
Contact Us
Hair Care, Hair Loss, Medical Health, Wigs Canada, Wigs Toronto
Hair Growth Drugs
2013/10/04 HBCA
Minoxidil is a medicinal ingredient found in most hair growth shampoos. The ingredient is helpful in treating androgenic alopecia in men as well as women.
It is not entirely clear as to how minoxidil works, and its effectiveness in treating hair loss may even be debatable. If used regularly, twice a day, and massaged thoroughly into the scalp, you may recover from hair loss. Minoxidil also encourages new hair growth; however, how much is still a question up till today.
Minoxidil is more effective when you use it during the process of balding or at the start. It is not a drug suitable for people who are already bald.
Another drug called Propecia is approved in treating hair loss. However, it is only designed for men. This is because the drug, available in pill form, interrupts the male sex hormone, testosterone from producing DHT. DHT is a byproduct of testosterone which shortens the growth phase of the hair follicles and increases the rest stage.
Propecia can cause side effects like loss of libido due to its effect on testosterone but the effects are usually temporary.
Testosterone therapy is a popular among aging men. However, this may increase hair loss. Some may consider taking Propecia during testosterone therapy but the drug actually prevents the breakdown of testosterone and may alter the effectiveness of testosterone therapy.
Many men may use minoxidil and Propecia to benefit from both drugs and for maximum effect. Both drugs can also be taken with hair replacement surgery. However, it is important to resume treatment on a regular basis. If you cannot take both drugs every day with the required dosage, it is better if you don’t take the drugs at all because hair loss will occur again if you stop treatment.
For more information about hair loss, hair growth, hair care or wigs, please contact us.
Share this:
Tumblr
Reddit
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Pinterest
Print
LinkedIn
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Tagged alopecia, cancer, cancer patient wigs, hair care, hair growth, hair loss, lace wigs canada, Minoxidil, wigs canada, wigs toronto
Published by HBCA
Hair & Beauty Canada is an online wig company that designs high quality custom made wigs and hairpieces for men and women. Our wigs are so real, no one will ever know you are wearing a wig!	View all posts by HBCA
Post navigation
Previous postSeptember Is National Alopecia Awareness Month
Next postVisit Hair & Beauty Canada Wig Store on Facebook
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Recent Posts
5 Best Selling Premium Wig Brands That Are Simply Irresistible
Differentiating Lace Front Wig Vs Full Lace Wig: Which Is A Better Choice?
Gift Your Girl The Gift She Would Never Forget: A Look At The Best Christmas Gift Ideas Under $300
The Most Awaited Black Friday Sale Is Here! Time To Buy Your Favorite Wigs At Prices Like Never Before
Rock This Halloween With Funky Party Wig Ideas: Get Right, Your Spooky Side!
Twitter
How Baking Soda Proves To Be An Effective Remedy For Synthetic Wig Care? Read More: bit.ly/2v7sv4W… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…Follow Us on Twiiter	5 days ago
READ How Baking Soda P... wigstorehairandbeautycanada.ca/blogs/hair-los… #followus #whatsnew #shopping #beautytipsFollow Us on Twiiter	5 days ago
Hair and Beauty Canada on #Google local.google.com/place?id=51349…Follow Us on Twiiter	1 week ago
Follow @hairandbeautyca
Facebook
Facebook
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: