Acne Tips Archives - Page 2 of 3 - Scars and Spots
Scars and Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
About INVICIBLE
Press
Subscribe
Buy NOW
April 20, 2019
InviCible Scars November 4, 2014 Leave a Comment
How to Get Rid of Back Acne Scars
Although back acne scars are easier to hide than those on the face, it is still a frustrating and embarrassing problem for both men and women. You may feel you always have to wear a T-shirt, or you cannot wear bathing suits, anything backless or sleeveless, or other clothes that will expose your back. However, there is hope. You can get rid of your back acne scars so that they no longer determine what you pull out of your wardrobe.
Take Care of your Skin
The first step in reducing back acne scars is to reduce the potential for scarring. If you have back acne, you should treat it properly so that there is less chance it creates scars. Rather than picking acne lesions, use acne treatment creams to address the problem. Acne is caused by bacteria and clogged pores, hormonal imbalance, food allergies, or other medical conditions. Be sure to keep your back clean and use a treatment recommended by your doctor to reduce acne. Additionally, address any underlying conditions that can trigger acne. Once you have your acne under control, then you can work on treating the scars.
Read: What are the different types of acne scars?
You also want to take care of your skin in general to promote its natural healing, which reduces the risk of scarring. Always wear sunscreen, don’t smoke, drink plenty of water, exercise, get plenty of rest and eat healthily. A healthy diet will provide the natural nutrients your skin needs to heal, and it will also help to decrease your acne as well.
Treatment Options for Back Acne Scars
There are a few treatment options for back acne scars. For very bad scarring, your doctor may recommend microdermabrasion, laser, dermabrasion or even scar revision surgery. Start with the least invasive option and go from there.
The first step is to try a topical scar treatment cream. A stable form of vitamin C is the best ingredient to have in a scar treatment cream. Vitamin C is an antioxidant and protects the skin against free radicals. Vitamin C is also necessary for building collagen, an important component of skin cells. It will help to grow new, healthy skin cells to replace the damaged scar tissue.
When choosing an acne scar cream, be sure to avoid ingredients that can potentially irritate your skin and trigger breakouts. Avoid creams that contain preservatives and fragrances if you can as these can cause irritation, acne breakouts and even contact dermatitis.
Have a question about your scar? Leave a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: acne scars, get rid of acne scars
InviCible Scars August 4, 2014 2 Comments
Acne Scars Not Healing?
Are your acne scars not healing as well as you would like? Acne scars can sometimes be quite deep and require special attention. Acne occurs when the body’s sebaceous follicles plug up with bacteria and dead skin cells. Your body has a natural inflammatory response that often leads to skin injury and scarring. Fresh acne sscars eventually become less inflamed and begin to form flat, reddish lesions that doctors call maculae. Maculae may darken on the skin where the inflammation was. Unfortunately, some people do develop permanent acne scars at such sites. Your skin may appear to be indented or sunken. So, what to do?
Begin applying InviCible’s therapeutic scar cream to your acne scars as soon as inflammation and rawness subsides. InviCible’s ingredients were specifically chosen to help reduce acne scars and to promote the fading of acne dark spots. To further enhance and minimize your acne scar’s healing process, be sure to protect your acne or dark spots from the sun. This will darken the scars further than is absolutely necessary. If your acne is on your face or scalp, wear a hat to protect yourself from the sun. If your acne is on your back, don’t expose your back to the sun. It’s damaging, and could darken your scars further. Keep the area clean and dry.
If your acne scars are not healing, it may be because you are using the wrong scar treatment product to heal the area. Try a twice-daily application of InviCible, with Dual Vitamin C complex. Dual Vitamin C complex helps to normalize collagen production — a natural part of the healing process —improves acne scarring by making scars more flush with your healthy skin. If your acne scars tend to darken, apply InviCible to help decrease production of dark pigment. ProBiosyn-4™ is a group of ingredients with anti-inflammatory properties. They include Aloe Vera and Licorice extract, which help to limit acne flare-ups. Licorice extract is especially helpful in dispersing the abnormal dark pigmentation responsible for dark acne marks.
When scars do not appear to be healing, most likely there is an agent that’s irritating the area. If you’ve been keeping the area clean and dry, then the only other possibility is your scar treatment cream. Many scar treatment creams contain ingredients that successfully lighten scars in the short term, but irritate and aggravate scar tissue over the long term such as Kojic Acid and Hydroquinone.
Believe it or not, Vitamin E does not promote speedy healing! Instead, it can promote contact dermatitis. InviCible Scars is a therapeutic combination of safe ingredients that will allow your scar to heal, finally. InviCible’s safety profile is top notch and has even been awarded the National Parenting Center Seal of Approval and is one of only 300 products in compliance with the Compact for Safe Cosmetics. Daily application of safe and effective InviCible scar cream, in combination with avoidance of the sun, a healthy diet, daily exercise, will ensure a speedy reduction in scar tissue prominence and improved aesthetic appearance.
Have a question about your scar? Leave a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Dark Scars, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: acne scars, dark spots, get rid of acne scars, scar treatment
InviCible Scars January 29, 2014 Leave a Comment
Scar Treatment for Cystic Acne
Contrary to popular belief, not all acne scars are caused by picking at pimples. Some acne, such as cystic acne, is prone to scarring even if you don’t touch it at all. These painful lesions trap inflammation and do not easily connect with the skin’s surface. Cystic acne is inflammatory acne which triggers a white blood cell response as the skin tries to heal itself, resulting in scars even if you keep your hands off.
Read: Different types of acne scars
So if you do get one of these pimples, how can you minimize potential scarring? The first step is to get the acne under control in the first place. For ongoing cystic acne, a prescription might be the most effective way to control or eliminate it, so don’t hesitate to see a doctor. Abrasive over the counter acne products can be irritating to your skin and may contain questionable chemicals, so talk to your doctor about which products are truly safe and effective. If you can’t see a dermatologist for any reason, make sure to keep the skin clean to avoid infection, but steer clear of abrasive or harsh products.
Once you get rid of cystic acne, how can you get rid of the mark left behind? There are several options for fading scars caused by cystic acne. For the most severe acne, a visit to a dermatologist might be in order for a chemical peel, facial scar revision, or other powerful treatments.
There are also several natural remedies that can help fade these difficult scars. Aloe vera has been shown to help speed healing and keep the scar tissue moisturized. Vitamins A and C are both effective scar healers, and can be applied to the skin or consumed in the form of foods or beverages that contain them in large amounts. Licorice is a natural and safe ingredient known to help fade scars.
Silicone is another very effective scar healer. Numerous studies have shown that it softens scars when used regularly, even hypertrophic or older scars. However, the sooner treatment is started, the better the results. A product that contains silicone along with the above mentioned natural ingredients packs a powerful punch when it comes to getting rid of cystic acne scars.
Hydroquinone is one ingredient found in many scar treatment products that you should steer clear of. Hydroquinone has been shown to be potentially dangerous, irritate the skin of some patients, cause common allergic reactions, and even cause permanent discoloration of the skin.
Keep in mind that while you are treating your acne scars, you should keep them out of the sun. Your face is frequently exposed to sunlight throughout the day, so if the scars are on your face, be sure to apply sunscreen every time you go outside, even if you are going out for only a few minutes. Sunlight can, at best, delay scar healing, and at worst, it can exacerbate scars and permanently darken them.
Acne is never fun, and when it is painful and causes scarring, it is even worse. However, you don’t have to live with unsightly acne scars. You can take a proactive stand against them and within just a few months dramatically improve the appearance of your skin.
Do you have a question about your scar? Leave us a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Hypertrophic Scars, New or Old Scars, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: acne scars, cystic acne scars, face scars, get rid of scars, hypertrophic scars, scar treatment
InviCible Scars November 11, 2013 Leave a Comment
5 Acne Myths
Now that adolescence is behind you, do you believe acne is as well? Or that skipping sunscreen and letting your skin soak up those UV rays will help conceal the appearance of your acne, or even help heal it?
The truth is that these and other myths about acne are widely believed, and anecdotal evidence only helps them thrive. The problem is that when you have acne, you know how important it is to get rid of it and to heal and fade acne scars left behind – but if you follow incorrect advice, you will only make your problem worse. Begin taking steps to improve your skin by learning the truth about these five acne myths.
1. Acne only happens to teenagers.
Teenagers certainly do deal with more than their fair share of acne, but some people get acne for the first time as adults of 20, 30, or even older.
2. You have acne because your face is dirty.
The truth is that if you take regular showers, your face is no dirtier than anyone else’s, nor is it dirtier than any other part of your body that is washed daily. Blackheads, despite being dark in color, are not caused by dirt. The fact is that acne is a complex condition and it cannot always be pinned down to a direct cause.
Read: Acne Do’s and Don’ts
3. Tanning can make acne go away.
Tanning is never a good idea, but it can be especially problematic if you have acne. That’s because while you may think your skin looks better in the short term with a tan, those UV rays are actually drying out your skin and ultimately exacerbating your acne, as well as any scars your acne may cause.
4. Acne is not affected by what you eat.
Almost all of your body’s systems as well as your overall health are directly impacted by what you eat. While acne may sometimes have a genetic component, it has also been directly linked to dairy intake. Research is ongoing, of course, and other foods may eventually be implicated as well. In the meantime, it’s probably a good idea to ask your doctor about the wisdom of limiting dairy products in your diet in order to improve the health and appearance of your skin.
5. Acne will eventually go away on its own.
Most often, it won’t. There is a reason why you have acne; that reason needs to be discovered and treated in order to make a significant difference in your acne. Ignoring your acne and doing nothing may simply make it worse. Getting serious about finding an effective acne remedy and a product that will fade any scarring is your best bet for clearing up your skin – fast, and for good.
Often people try home remedies or simple, natural cures. Certainly, some of these have value and some skin protective properties. However, most of these types of treatments deliver limited results at best (i.e. lemon juice to fade acne scars), and are far more effective when combined with a proven, safe product like dimethicone silicone gel and Vitamin C.
Are there any acne myths you have questions about?
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Face Scars, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars Tagged: acne scars, acne tips, get rid of scars
InviCible Scars October 7, 2013 19 Comments
Does Tanning Help Get Rid of Acne Scars?
Often when people have prominent acne scars, they try tanning to try to make the scar fade or hide it by darkening the skin around it. In fact, tanning is one of the worst things you can do for a scar. For starters, scar tissue is different from normal skin and much less resistant to damage caused by ultraviolet rays. That means a much higher likelihood that your scar will burn – even if the skin around it doesn’t. Excessive sun exposure can also darken a scar permanently. This is especially a problem in people with darker complexions.
When you have acne scars, you should protect them from sun exposure to prevent worsening of their visibility and promote their fading. Use sunscreen religiously. Anytime you sweat or get in the water, you should reapply it. Even better, cover the scar with protective clothing, if possible.
Read: How Does the Sun Affect Scars?
Preventing Acne Scars
Besides protecting your acne scars from the sun, there are other measures you can take to speed their healing and fading. The most important treatment for acne scars is preventing new ones. Treat your acne, if necessary by using antibiotics – see your dermatologist for more information on this. Eat a healthy diet, exercise, and keeps your hands off of the affected area – your hands carry oil and various dirt and germs that can aggravate the condition.
Treating the Scars You Have
For the scars you already have, prioritize hydration – oral and topical. Moisturizers for your skin and plenty of water to drink will both help. Add lemon juice to your water for a dose of vitamin C and to help flush out toxins. And use “skin-friendly” (water-based, hypoallergenic) cosmetics.
Fortunately, there are very effective topical scar treatments on the market today. The sooner you treat a new scar, the more responsive it is likely to be to the treatment. Vitamin C is one of the strongest scar treatment ingredients available; look for a product containing it. Silicone is another one proven to fade and soften scars.
When nothing else has worked, you can try laser treatments. This is appropriate for severe scarring and actually removes the top layer of scarred skin so that newer, healthier skin can replace it. Over time, this makes the scar much less noticeable. Laser scar treatment is often an ongoing, expensive process, but can yield good results in stubborn cases.
Finally, as with any scar, don’t smoke. Smoking causes complications during any healing process. Nicotine impairs oxygen flow to the area, and oxygen is a vital component of the scar healing process. When you smoke, your blood vessels constrict, allowing less oxygen to be transported to the areas that need it the most. Smoking also increases the amount of carbon dioxide in your blood, resulting in even less oxygen. Smoking depletes levels of vitamin C in your body, which is bad for many reasons, but particularly because scars need vitamin C to heal. Vitamin C helps you form new collagen, boosts your immune system health, and is a powerful antioxidant.
Have you tried tanning to fade your acne scars?
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: acne scars, get rid of scars
« Previous Page
Next Page »
EMAIL NEWSLETTER
Sign up to receive our free monthly newsletter with tips and advice on how to treat dark spots and scars.
Enter your email address...
Subscribe to Scars and Spots
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Buy Now
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Popular Posts
Can You Tattoo Over Scars?
How to Remove Dark Spots from Razor Bumps and Ingrown Hair
How Do You Soften Scar Tissue?
Why Does a Scar Turn White?
Are Second Degree Burn Scars Permanent?
How to Fade Shingles Scars
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bite Scars
Why Do Scars Itch?
Is a Red Scar a Permanent Scar?
Why Do Surgical Scars Itch?
Press
About INVICIBLE
InviCible has a superior safety profile and is also hypoallergenic. It contains NO hydroquinone, preservatives, fragrances, petroleum, mineral oil, or alcohol. It is not tested on animals.
Privacy Policy Cookie Policy
RECENT POSTS
Scar Cream Available Internationally on Amazon
Cosmetic Surgeon Red Flags You Should Not Ignore
Pediatric Sun Exposure – Tips from St. Jude to Protect Your Child
How to Get Rid of Scars Fast
How Long Does it Take a Hypertrophic Scar to Heal?
My Scar Won’t Stop Itching, Is This Normal?
SEARCH
Search Tags
Acne Scars Acne Tips Age Spots Breast Cancer Scars Breast Surgery Scars Burn Scars Chemical Peels C Section Scars Dark Scars Exercise Facelift Scars Face Scars Get Rid of Dark Spots Get Rid of Scars Hyperpigmentation Hypertrophic Scars InviCible Scars Reviews Keloid Scars Mastectomy Scars Melanoma Scars Melasma New or Old Scars Nutrition Plastic Surgery Scars Scar Healing Tips Skin Care Tips Skin Resurfacing Skin Spots Skin Treatments Sun Spots Surgery Scars Tummy Tuck Scars Uneven Skin Tone
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in