Having an Anterior Cervical Discectomy 4/1 - Will I be home for Easter? - Back Surgery and Neck Surgery
Arthritis-health.com Sports-health.com
Conditions
Treatment
Wellness
Forums
Conditions
Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Degenerative Disc Disease
Herniated Disc
Lower Back Pain
Neck Pain
Osteoporosis
Sciatica
Spinal Stenosis
All Conditions
Treatment
Alternative Care
Artificial Disc Replacement
Back Surgery
Chiropractic
Injections
Pain Management
Pain Medication
Physical Therapy
Spinal Fusion
All Treatments
Wellness
Ergonomics
Exercise
Massage Therapy
Nutrition, Diet, and Weight Loss
Sleep
Stop Smoking
Yoga, Pilates, and Tai Chi
All Wellness
Forums
All Forums
Arthritis/Osteoarthritis Forum
Back Surgery and Neck Surgery Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Lower Back Pain Forum
Neck Pain Forums
Pain Management Forum
Pain Medications Forum
Surgery Recovery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find a Spine Center
Videos
Education Centers
Free Newsletters
Forum
› Back Surgery and Neck Surgery
Welcome, Friend!
It looks like you're new here. If you want to get involved, click one of these buttons!
Sign In Register
Sign In · Register
Start a New Discussion
advertisement
Quick Start Forum Video Tutorial
Forum Tools
Forum Home
Latest Discussions (View Recent Posts)
FAQ
Rules
Code of Conduct
Terms of Service
Forum Topics
Back Surgery and Neck Surgery
Chronic Pain
Lower Back Pain
Mind, Body and Spirit
Neck Pain: Cervical
Pain Medications
Sciatica, Leg Pain, Radiculopathy
Surgery Buddies
Recovering from Surgery
Upper Back Pain, Thoracic
Latest
Top Videos
Top Articles
Medications for Back and Neck Pain
All About the C5-C6 Spinal Motion Segment
C5-C6 Treatment
Sciatica Exercises for Sciatica Pain Relief
Sciatica Causes and Exercises
Lumbar Herniated Disc Video
Learn how a lumbar disc herniates and can cause lower back pain
Sciatica Animated Video
Sciatica is leg pain caused by a problem in the low back.
Lumbar Degenerative Disc Disease Video
See how a disc degenerates and how it can cause pain and other symptoms
Lower Back Pain Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Sciatica Exercises for Sciatica Pain Relief
What You Need to Know About Sciatica
Leg Pain and Numbness: What Might These Symptoms Mean?
Stiff Neck Causes, Symptoms and Treatment
In this Discussion
03/22/2010 - 10:01 AM aluap
03/17/2010 - 11:16 AM tahoegranny
03/12/2010 - 4:26 PM DNice
03/20/2010 - 2:50 PM jayhawk
03/11/2010 - 6:55 AM fourgirlzmom
03/17/2010 - 3:32 AM jellyhall
03/11/2010 - 5:17 AM tamtam
03/11/2010 - 5:11 PM SpineAZ
03/17/2010 - 12:03 PM Cath111
03/22/2010 - 10:16 AM sparkledct
Click here for an Index to major topics ....
Protect anonymity
We strongly suggest that members do not include their email addresses. Once that is published , your email address is available to anyone on the internet , including hackers.
Notice
All discussions and comments that contain an external URL will be automatically moved to the spam queue. No external URL pointing to a medical web site is permitted. Forum rules also indicate that you need prior moderator approval. If you are going to post an external URL, contact one of the moderators to get their approval.
There are no medical professionals on this forum side of the site. Therefore, no one is capable or permitted to provide any type of medical advice.
This includes any analysis, interpretation, or advice based on any diagnostic test
The main site has all the formal medical articles and videos for you to research on.
advertisement
Having an Anterior Cervical Discectomy 4/1 - Will I be home for Easter?
advertisement
‹1234567›
Comments
ssparkledct Posts: 120
03/15/2010 - 10:36 AM
You know what Cathy, it is funny isnt it. That no one wants to help you when you are loosing your mind. I have sort of had it with my Primary care and my surgeon. Now my orthopedic guy I know would help me, but him and the surgeon are at the same practice and whenever I call I go strait to the surgeon now instead of my ortho guy that has treated me for 6 years and knows me. It is pretty much a crock but what are we going to do. I will go tomorrow and hope they are able to help me cause I am not going to make it on my own. I cannot go into this surgery being stressed and exhausted from lack of sleep, it is just not a good idea
Well we will see tomorrow. If not I will be calling both the surgeon and PCP back and crying till someone listens to me. I am working 10 hour days, taking care of 3 kids and I just need some help!
ssparkledct Posts: 120
03/16/2010 - 6:29 AM
So I went to the counselor today. First let me say she was awesome. She gave me some relaxation techniques and prayed with me which was a great comfort. But she cannot help me with meds to fix my anxiety. Her exact words were "you are a perfect candidate for Xanez or Adavan (sp?), why is your doctor not giving this to you?" Like how the heck do I know why my doctor is not helping me... The counselor told me to call my PCP office and ask again, which I did on my way back to work. Feel like I am on a merry go round and not in a good way. Someone get me off this thing..
advertisement
ssparkledct Posts: 120
03/17/2010 - 3:15 AM
Well just wanted to update you guys that they gave me something for anxiety today. Thank goodness. I feel relief just knowing I have something to help me now.
Thank you all for your support. Hope you are all feeling well today.
jjellyhall Posts: 4,340
03/17/2010 - 3:32 AM
I hope that you will now feel calm, and ready to get 'sorted' and move on with your 'new improved' life.
I hope that I'll be able to tell you soon that the anticipation is worse than the actual operation! Let's hope so. ~X(
ssparkledct Posts: 120
03/17/2010 - 3:39 AM
Jellyhall,
I have been thinking about you so much. I am praying for you. I think 2 days before my day I will be in pieces. I am glad you are holding together so well. Stay around the people that give you comfort the next two days and pray pray pray. I will anxiously await hearing from you after you are feelilng well enough to send us a note and let us know how you are doing. Warm hugs and wishes for you!
advertisement
jjayhawk Posts: 1,032
03/17/2010 - 5:22 AM
That is wonderful Sparkle! I am so happy for you! You truly do have to be your own advocate and the squeeky wheel really does get the attention! Hopefully the meds will take the edge off and allow you to enjoy your children. Hopefully time will fly by for you now!
Hang in there sweetheart! Hope you are having a good day and that the sun in shinning for you! Shari
ssparkledct Posts: 120
03/17/2010 - 5:33 AM
You know it is funny the relief I feel just knowing I have the meds to help me if I need them. I swear it is like night and day. At least I do not feel like I will be ehxausted at the time of the surgery. Thank goodness. Well the sun feels like it is shining today no matter what, but I think it is actually out
Thank you so much for the encouragement and support. I am sure the next two weeks will be past before we know it.
CCath111 Posts: 3,555
03/17/2010 - 6:17 AM
Hi Melissa. I'm so glad that you finally got something to help. It's not like we want to take these things forever, just to get through the days and/or weeks leading up to surgery. That's really not too much to ask.
You know how, when things seem normal, we talk about how time flies. Days, weeks, months and years just seem to fly by and it's the same for us having surgery. Before you know it, you'll be home recovering, then, before you know it, it'll be three months post-op, then a year. Unfortunately, time does seem to drag when we know we're heading toward surgery, but I'm hoping the time goes quickly for you. I tried to keep myself busy so I wouldn't think about it too much, but other than that, not much you can do.
Again, I'm glad that the squeeky wheel finally got the grease. I know how it feels to just HAVE it, knowing that you've got something for relief when you have that anxiety attack that will come on unexpectedly.
Take care, my friend.
Cath
ssparkledct Posts: 120
03/17/2010 - 6:30 AM
Thank you so much. I think the next 2 weeks will drag and maybe the first week post op when it is the hardest pain wise, but I have to tell myself that after that I will start feeling a bit more like myself. At least I hope so.
How are you holding up. How is your pain? Are you getting back to normal (as normal as we ever get lol)
Keep in touch, I am sure I will loose my mind yet again before the big day.
CCath111 Posts: 3,555
03/17/2010 - 6:46 AM
Actually, I think the first week or two goes pretty fast after surgery because there's a lot of sleeping involved. But yes, the two weeks before can seem slow. You'll want to be really careful not having a brace, though. A brace is a great reminder of the things you shouldn't do, and since you're not going to have one, you'll really have to keep that in mind. Too many people without braces will move their head suddenly when startled or something. So, just be careful.
I want you to make me a promise, ok? When you post after your surgery, be honest and tell me if you found that the anticipation that you're going through now was much worse than the surgery. I found that is true as others have, and I'm anxious to hear if you feel that way after your surgery.
I'm doing really well. I overdid it a bit yesterday so I'm in a bit of pain today, but that happens at this stage. I'll always have pain in my neck (my cervical problems are much worse than my lumbar ones), but my lumbar is feeling really good these days. Unless I do too much, like I did yesterday. It's crazy how we feel like Superwoman or Superman a couple of months after surgery on our low pain days and think we're past the pain stage. It just doesn't work like that, unfortunately. I'm weaning off my pain meds, but had to take an extra this morning. Always three steps forward, one step back. Ugh.
It was so strange today. I was replying to Julie who's 8 weeks out from surgery and went to my calendar to see how far out I am exactly and I was surprised to find that I'm only 10 weeks out. For some stupid reason, I though I was much farther along, like three month or more. So now that I realize this, I'm going to take it easier. Man, this spiney world can be like the Twilight Zone sometimes.
Cath
advertisement
‹1234567›
Sign In or Register to comment.
Start a New Discussion
Back Pain Resources
Back Conditions A-Z
Doctor Advice
Education Centers
Image Gallery
Spine-health Glossary
En Español
Find a Back Doctor
Find a Spine Center
For Spine Professionals
Become a Doctor Member
About Spine-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Sponsor Policy
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Arthritis-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Spine-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding spine and spine related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
forum | f2019.01.030