Home Remedies for Runny Nose -
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
For Any Health Related Issues, Call Us At : +91 9058429887 | Email: info@hashmi.com
Navigate
Home
Health Blog
General Health
Male Health
Female Health
Weight Management
Contact Us
Home
Health Blog
General Health
Male Health
Female Health
Weight Management
Contact Us
You are at:Home»Health Blog»Home Remedies for Runny Nose
Home Remedies for Runny Nose
0
By admin on January 26, 2014 Health Blog
A runny nose is a very common and annoying problem. It occurs when there is increased mucus in the sinus and nasal passages. The increased mucus production is the body’s way of flushing cold or flu viruses, irritants and allergens out of the body.
Some of the most common causes of a runny nose are the common cold, an allergic reaction, a sinus infection and a sudden change in weather.
Here are the top 10 home remedies for a runny nose.
1. Salt Water
Salt water is the best home remedy for alleviating the irritation that accompanies a runny nose. Salt water will help thin the mucus, making it easier and more comfortable to expel. It will also help clear the nasal passages of irritants.
Mix one-half teaspoon of table salt in two cups of warm water.
Using a dropper, put a few drops of the solution into each nostril with your head tilted back.
Inhale very gently to draw the solution further into your nasal passages. Then blow your nose to remove excess mucus and solution.
Do this a few times at a sitting until you feel relief.
Repeat a couple of times each day until your condition improves.
2. Steam
Steam is also an effective home remedy for a runny nose. It helps clear out excess mucus that causes a runny nose and sneezing.
Hold your face over a bowl of hot water, with a towel over your head to trap the steam. Breathe in the steam for about 10 minutes, and then blow your nose. Do this three or four times a day.
You can also add a few drops of eucalyptus oil or menthol to the hot water before breathing in the steam.
Alternatively, you can take a hot shower or bath.
3. Mustard Oil
Mustard oil has antibiotic, antiviral and antihistamine properties that can provide instant relief from various symptoms of a runny nose.
Heat a small amount of mustard oil until it is slightly warm. Using a dropper, put one or two drops of the oil in each nostril. This will help clear up the nasal passages. Do this two or three times a day.Add two to three tablespoons of mustard oil and one tablespoon of caraway seeds to a pot of boiling water. Inhale the steam. The strong aroma of mustard oil will warm up the respiratory system, thus providing instant relief from a runny nose. Do this twice daily.
Note : Mustard oil is edible, so you can use the oil for cooking too.
4. Turmeric
Turmeric works as an antidote for many health conditions, including a runny nose. The herb has strong antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and antiviral properties that make it very effective for treating a runny nose as well as a cold.
Soak one-half teaspoon of dry, ground turmeric in a cup of linseed oil. Hold the mixture over heat until it starts smoking. Slowly inhale the smoke through one nostril and then the other. Do this twice daily.
One-half teaspoon of turmeric powder can also be taken two times a day. You can take it with some water. This will help loosen the mucus in the body.
Mix one teaspoon of turmeric powder in a glass of warm milk and drink it before going to bed. This will offer quick relief from a runny nose, cough, cold, sore throat and also asthma. You can add a pinch of black pepper as well.
5. Ginger
Ginger has a wide range of antioxidants as well as antiviral, antitoxic, and antifungal properties that help provide quick relief from various symptoms of a runny nose.
Chewing small prices of raw ginger sprinkled with salt several times a day alleviates a runny nose quickly.
Cut ginger root into thin slices, put them in a cup of water and boil it for some time to make a tea. Add a little honey for taste and drink the tea three or four times a day.
Boil one teaspoon of ginger powder in two cups of water and inhale the steam.
Ginger can also be taken in the form of lozenges, which are available in the market, to prevent a runny nose.
6. Garlic
Garlic has strong antibacterial and antiseptic properties that make it a wonderful treatment for a runny nose.
Prepare garlic soup by boiling three or four cloves of chopped garlic in a cup of water for several minutes. Strain the solution, add some sugar and drink the soup twice a day.
Chew a small piece of garlic three or four times a day to warm up your body and get relief from a runny nose.
Garlic supplements can also be taken on a regular basis to prevent or reduce the frequency of a runny nose.
7. Eucalyptus Oil
Eucalyptus oil is a decongestant and can give you instant relief from a runny nose.
Heat a large bowl of water. Add seven drops of eucalyptus oil and four drops each of lavender oil and peppermint oil to it. Cover your head with a towel and lean over the bowl to inhale the scented steam. Do this two or three times daily.
You can also put a few drops of eucalyptus oil on a handkerchief and inhale it throughout the day to reduce your symptoms.
8. Honey
Honey has strong antibacterial and antiviral properties that help reduce the various symptoms of a runny nose.
Put two tablespoons of honey in a cup. Add a pinch of cinnamon powder and one-half tablespoon of lemon juice to it. Take this mixture twice daily.
Mix two teaspoons of honey in a glass of warm water. Drink this twice daily.
Mix one tablespoon of honey and three or four drops of fresh lemon juice in a glass of warm water. Drink it while it is still warm, twice daily. This remedy can help strengthen your immune system while fighting the runny nose.
9. Basil
Basil has antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral as well as strong healing properties that will warm your body inside and treat your runny nose.
Chew three or four basil leaves before breakfast every morning and before going to bed at night.
Eat two to three basil leaves with a little jaggery two times a day to get rid of a runny nose as well as the common cold.
Add eight to 10 basil leaves and five cloves to a cup of water. Boil it for 10 minutes. Add some sugar. Allow the solution to cool and then drink it. Do this twice daily.
10. Cayenne Pepper
Cayenne pepper acts as an antihistamine to clear up nasal congestion as well as help treat a runny nose. Cayenne pepper increases nasal discharge so that your body can flush out the blockage and toxins that are causing your runny nose.
It also helps increase circulation, which will warm you up. So, when suffering from runny nose, try to include more cayenne pepper while preparing your foods.
Diet Of Runny Nose
Drink lemon and honey with warm water.
Most runny noses go away on their own, unless of course there is an underlying health condition that requires treatment.
Altoid mints sometimes can clear nasal passages.
Blow your nose when needed.
Always moisturize your nose with unscented moisturizer to keep your skin moisturized.
Keep blowing your nose to get rid of the mucus.
Spicy soup for delicious, if temporary relief from a runny nose.
Buy rub cream from a pharmacy shop to ease congestion.
Put hot water and a spoon if Vicks vaporub and breath that in but remember to put a towel to cover your head and keep the water from cooling down.
If your runny nose condition stays for more than 2 days, you should see a doctor.
Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email
About Author
admin
Related Posts
February 4, 2019 0
Understanding Bilirubin and the Cause of the Yellow Color
February 2, 2019 0
Ways to Prevent Hemorrhoids
July 2, 2018 0
Spices and Herbs That Can Help You Stay Healthy
Leave A Reply Cancel Reply
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Contact Us
Your Name (required)
Your Email (required)
Subject
Your Message
Recent Post
January 20, 2019 0
How to Decrease Breast Size Naturally
January 17, 2019 0
Home Remedies for Breast Reduction
January 14, 2019 0
Increase Breast Size of the Women
December 20, 2018 0
Vaginal Tightness Tips
Female Health
Male Health
News
January 20, 2019 0
How to Decrease Breast Size Naturally
January 17, 2019 0
Home Remedies for Breast Reduction
January 14, 2019 0
Increase Breast Size of the Women
December 20, 2018 0
Vaginal Tightness Tips
January 29, 2019 0
Treatment and Prevention of Heart Disease
January 12, 2019 0
Other Specific Infertility Medical Treatments
January 10, 2019 0
Ways to Increase Sexual Stamina
January 9, 2019 0
Natural Remedies for Premature Ejaculation
February 4, 2019 0
Understanding Bilirubin and the Cause of the Yellow Color
February 2, 2019 0
Ways to Prevent Hemorrhoids
July 2, 2018 0
Spices and Herbs That Can Help You Stay Healthy
March 18, 2018 0
Health Benefits of Herbs and Spices
About
HASHMI DWAKHANA
Having established in the year-1929, the efficacy and quality of our products as well as our professionalism have been the main reasons to enable us to grow fast and spread across whole of the country. Providing proactive healthcare to allow you to achieve natural well-being. Unani Medicine is very much a nutritive approach to holistic health.
Popular Posts
February 4, 2019 0
Understanding Bilirubin and the Cause of the Yellow Color
November 14, 2013 0
Contact to Hashmi Dawakhana
November 14, 2013 0
Sikander-e-Azam Plus Frequently Asked Questions
Popular Products
Understanding Bilirubin and the Cause of the Yellow Color
Ways to Prevent Hemorrhoids
How to Quit Drinking Alcohol
How to Heal Arthritis Naturally
Kidney Stone Prevention Tips
Treatment and Prevention of Heart Disease
Copyrights © HASHMI SALES CORPORATION
Privacy Policy
About Us
Call Now Button