Triptan Medications for Migraines
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Triptans for Migraine Treatment
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Migraines
Treatment
Symptoms
Types
Causes & Risk Factors
Prevention
Living With
Related Conditions
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Brain & Nervous System Migraines Treatment
Triptans for Migraine Treatment
How Triptans Relieve Migraines and What to Watch Out For
Print
By Colleen Doherty, MD | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated March 28, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
What They're For How They Work Types/Formulations
Side Effects Warnings Interactions
View All
Back To Top
More in Migraines
Treatment
Symptoms
Types
Causes & Risk Factors
Prevention
Living With
Related Conditions
Triptans are prescription medications used to alleviate migraine episodes. They are specifically indicated for acute migraines and are not used for migraine prevention. Generally, if a person's migraines do not improve with tolerable doses of over-the-counter medications, then prescriptions, including triptans, are considered. Examples include Imitrex (sumatriptan) and Zomig (zolmitriptan).
Indication
If you have recurrent migraines, your doctor may consider prescribing a triptan for you to take when you have a migraine episode. There are several other prescription medications used for acute migraines, and your doctor will weigh the risks and benefits of each with you as you work on your migraine treatment plan together.
Triptans can be used for moderate to severe migraines, and they can also be used for mild migraines when non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) and other over-the-counter options are not effective. They are often used for the treatment of menstrual migraines, migraines in young people, and migraines that are preceded by prodromal symptoms.
Prodromal Pre-Migraine Symptoms
There are a number of symptoms that occur with migraines, including head pain, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, and tingling of the hands. Pain is the symptom that is most likely to improve with triptans.
How Triptans Work
Triptans bind to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) receptors in the brain, increasing the effects of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that mediates pain and mood. Triptans are described as serotonin agonists because they amplify the effects of serotonin.
It has also been noted that triptans are vasoconstrictors, which narrow the lumen (opening) of blood vessels in the brain. They may block certain pain pathways in the brainstem as well.
It isn't clear which of these physiological effects is responsible for the action of triptans on migraines or whether it is a combination of several mechanisms.
Types and Formulations
There are currently seven types of triptans, all with similar chemical structures and mechanisms of action. Some people improve with one instead of another, and it is a good idea to stick with the same triptan so that you and your doctor can determine the right dose for you.
Of course, if your insurance coverage changes and your medication is no longer on the formulary or the cost increases, you can try another triptan. You will likely experience the same degree of migraine relief that you had with your previous triptan medication. However, you might notice that one triptan takes a longer or shorter time to start working, or that another has longer or shorter effects.
These triptans are all available in oral form; other forms are noted where applicable:
Imitrex, (sumatriptan): Indicated for adults over age 18; available in 25 mg, 50 mg, and 100 mg tablets. Imitrex also comes in a formulation that can be self-injected subcutaneously (SC) under the skin, a form that can be inhaled, and a suppository (inserted rectally). Alsuma, Sumavel, and Zembrace are injectable forms, and Onzetra is a nasal powder.
Relpax (eletriptan): Indicated for adults over age 18 and comes in 20 mg and 40 mg tablets
Zomig (zolmitriptan): Indicated for adults over age 18; comes in 2.5 mg and 5 mg tablets and dissolving tablets; is available in a formulation that can be inhaled that is approved for adults and for children 12 years of age or older
Amerge (naratriptan): Indicated for adults over age 18; comes in 1 mg and 2.5 mg tablets
Maxalt (rizatriptan): Indicated for adults over age 18 and for children ages 6 to 17 years old; comes in 5 mg and 10 mg tablets and dissolving tablets
Axert (almotriptan): Indicated for children ages 12 to 17 and adults over age 18; comes in 6.25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets
Frova (frovatriptan): Indicated for adults over age 18; comes in 2.5 mg tablets
Zecuity (sumatriptan), a patch that delivered the active medication transdermally (through the skin), was taken off the market in 2016 due to skin reactions at the site of the patch that included burn-like lesions and scars.
Side Effects
Triptans are effective migraine medications. That being said, they are prescription medications and need to be taken under the care of a physician. Some common side effects that can occur with triptans include:
Nausea
Jaw, neck, or chest tightness or pressure (a squeezing sensation)
Fast heart rate or increase in blood pressure
Fatigue
Numb/tingling sensation, especially of the face
Burning sensation of the skin
Contraindications
Some people should not take triptans because they could worsen an underlying health condition. It's important to review your medical history and all of your medications, including over-the-counter supplements and vitamins, with your personal physician before starting a prescription for triptans.
You should not take a triptan if you have a history of coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease, uncontrolled high blood pressure, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine. You should also not take a triptan if you are on certain anti-depressants that pose the potential for dangerous interactions (see below).
Pregnancy and Breastfeeding
If you are taking a triptan and plan on becoming pregnant or breastfeeding, speak with your doctor to determine the best treatment plan for your migraines. Triptans are category C drugs, which means that the risk versus benefit ratio must be weighed by the doctor for each individual patient.
The scientific data on using triptans while breastfeeding is limited and triptans should be used with caution.
Interactions
You should not use triptans on the same day as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, which are also potent migraine medications that induce vasoconstriction.
Taking a triptan with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, selective-serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), or selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI)—all antidepressants that augment the effects of serotonin—can result in serotonin syndrome, a rare but potentially fatal condition.
An Overview of Serotonin Syndrome
A Word From Verywell
Triptans are among the most effective treatments for acute migraine attacks. While they aren't right for everyone, they can help reduce the severity and duration of a migraine. And some people can avert the painful phase of a migraine by using a triptan as soon as prodromal symptoms begin.
Be sure to follow prescription instructions and to talk to your doctor or pharmacist about dosing or usage questions. Familiarize yourself with the common side effects, and contact your doctor if you experience signs of serotonin syndrome or any unusual effects.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Davanzo R, Bua J, Paloni G, Facchina G. Breastfeeding and migraine drugs. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2014 Nov;70(11):1313-24. doi: 10.1007/s00228-014-1748-0. Epub 2014 Sep 13.
Lipton RB, Munjal S, Buse DC, Bennett A, Fanning KM, Burstein R, Reed ML. Allodynia Is Associated With Initial and Sustained Response to Acute Migraine Treatment: Results from the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention Study. Headache. 2017 Jul;57(7):1026-1040. doi: 10.1111/head.13115. Epub 2017 Jun 11.
Macone AE, Perloff MD. Triptans and migraine: advances in use, administration, formulation, and development. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2017 Mar;18(4):387-397. doi: 10.1080/14656566.2017.1288721. Epub 2017 Feb 14.
Villalón CM, VanDenBrink AM. The Role of 5-Hydroxytryptamine in the Pathophysiology of Migraine and its Relevance to the Design of Novel Treatments. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2017;17(11):928-938. doi: 10.2174/1389557516666160728121050.
Continue Reading
Article
Zolmitriptan is a Triptan Used for Migraine Relief
Article
Can Maxalt Medication Help With Your Migraines?
Article
What to Do When You Have a Migraine
Article
What Can I Take Over-the-Counter for My Headache or Migraine?
Article
Can Sumatriptan Soothe Your Migraine?
Article
If You're Depressed and Have Migraines, Will Celexa Help Both?
Article
Does Oxitriptan (5-HTP) Supplementation Prevent Migraines?
Article
"I Have Questions about Taking Imitrex for My Migraines."
Article
Is Celebrex an Alternative to Ibuprofen for My Migraines?
Article
Migraine Medications That Are Safe During Pregnancy
Article
How Dihydroergotamine Medication Can Alleviate Your Migraines
Article
Find Out About the Newest Migraine Treatments
Article
Can You Take Marijuana for Your Migraines?
Article
What To Expect When Taking a Beta-Blocker for Migraine
Article
Using Ibuprofen to Treat Headaches and Migraines
Article
Compazine May Be the Option For Your Severe Headaches and Migraines
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more