Common Fungal and Bacterial Infections of the Foot
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Common Infections of the Foot
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Foot Health
Skin Problems
Healthy Foot Care
Bunions
Joint & Ligament Issues
Heel Pain
Toenail Problems
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Foot Health Skin Problems
Common Infections of the Foot
Differentiating Fungal and Bacterial Causes
Print
By Catherine Moyer, DPM | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated December 16, 2018
More in Foot Health
Skin Problems
Healthy Foot Care
Bunions
Joint & Ligament Issues
Heel Pain
Toenail Problems
No matter how clean your feet are, they are constantly in contact with microorganisms that can potentially cause infection. Fungus and bacteria are the most common culprits. In most cases, the immune system can keep these disease-causing agents (pathogens) at bay. There are times, however, when your immune defenses are low, a pathogen is especially robust, or a break in the skin allows a microorganism easy access into vulnerable tissues.
Symptoms of a foot infection can often be mild and easily treated at home. Others may require more aggressive interventions, including hospitalization to treat serious and potentially life-threatening complications. In general, there are steps you can take from contracting an infection.
Illustration by Brianna Gilmartin, Verywell
Fungal Foot Infections
Fungal foot infections are familiar to many of us who may have picked up a foot or toenail infection in a locker room or spa. Fungal pathogens are especially hearty and can even colonize on intact skin. The foot, especially between the toes, provides the ideal environment for infection, allowing the roots of the fungus to penetrate damp, softened tissues. All it takes to establish infection is for the foot to come in contact with a contaminated, moist surface.
Fungal foot infections can be persistent and hard to treat, but they are rarely life-threatening.
Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis)
When a rash, itchiness, and flaking develops between the toes, it is most often related to an all-too-uncommon condition known as athlete's foot (tinea pedis). The fungus thrives in moist environments such as gyms and saunas and can flourish in sweaty socks and shoes. It is highly contagious and can be readily spread through contaminated floors, towels, or clothing.
Athlete's foot can be caused by any number of fungi, including those associated with ringworm. Most cases can be identified by symptoms alone. More serious or recurrent cases would benefit from a microscopic examination of a skin scraping, known as a KOH test.
Mild cases can be treated with an over-the-counter antifungal cream or spray. Serious or persistent infections may require an oral antifungal such as terbinafine or itraconazole for a period of two to six months.
Athlete's Foot
Toenail Fungus (Onychomycosis)
Onychomycosis is a term used to describe a typically slow-growing fungal infection beneath the toenail. Symptoms include a white or yellowish discoloration, the thickening, and flaking of the nail, and the separation of the nail from the nail bed. Onychomycosis often accompanies athlete's foot and is more common is people with a weakened immune system or peripheral vascular disease (characterized by a diminished blood flow to the extremities).
Diagnosis can be made with a visual evaluation and supported with a KOH test. A tissue culture from nail trimmings can help identify the specific fungal pathogen.
Onychomycosis is notoriously difficult to treat since most topical creams are unable to penetrate the nail tissue. Oral antifungal treatment tends to work best, but it can take as long as six to 12 months for a nail to fully grow back. Terbinafine is considered the treatment of choice, often supported by itraconazole, another oral antifungal.
Oral antifungal medication may be needed for a fungal toenail infection.
Bacterial Foot Infections
While somewhat less common than a fungal infection, a bacterial foot infection can sometimes turn serious, moving from a local infection to a systemic (whole-body) one. Most are established through breaks or abrasions in the skin, often as a result of a penetrating wound.
Bacterial infections beneath or adjacent to a toenail are often the consequence of an ingrown toenail (onychocryptosis). Even eczema, athlete's foot, or a severe sunburn can provide an opportunity for infection by compromising the outermost layer of skin (epidermis).
While a bacterial foot infection can happen to anyone, certain people are at an increased risk of complications, including:
Older people
People with diabetes, who often have poor blood circulation in the feet and a decreased ability to fight infection
People who are immune compromised, such as those with untreated HIV
People undergoing chemotherapy or those taking immune suppressive drugs
When a bacterial infection occurs, the surrounding skin will become red, swollen, and painful. There may even be a yellow or greenish discharge in the form of pus. The most common bacterial culprit is Staphylococcus aureus, although other types are associated with specific conditions.
Erythrasma
One type of bacterial infection frequently mistaken for a fungus is erythrasma. Erythrasma is caused by the bacteria Corynebacterium minutissimum and is most commonly seen in people with diabetes and those who are obese. As with fungi, the bacterium primarily establishes itself in folds of skin, such as the armpits, under the breast, in the groin, or between the toes. The patches of infection are initially pink but quickly become brown and scaly as skin starts to flake and shed.
Erythrasma can often be diagnosed by using an ultraviolet light, known as a Wood's lamp, which causes the bacteria to glow an almost fluorescent coral-pink. Erythrasma is best treated with a topical fusidic acid cream or an oral antibiotic such as azithromycin or erythromycin.
How Erythrasma Skin Infection Is Linked to Humidity and Diabetes
Foot Abscess
Bacterial foot infections sometimes progress beyond the superficial tissues and consolidate into a pocket of pus known as an abscess. An abscess of the foot is most often caused by a puncture wound (as can happen after an unsterile pedicure) or the infection of a hair follicle. While abscesses are similar to boils, they involve deeper layers of tissue.
Symptoms include redness, swelling, warmth, pain, and the formation of a raised bump that can spontaneously erupt. Low-grade fever and a general achiness may also accompany an abscess. While S. aureus is a common culprit, Fusobacterium necrophorum and Arcanobacterium pyogenes are the types most typically constrained to the feet.
Abscesses can often be diagnosed by physical evaluation. If needed, a bacterial culture may be performed to identify the bacterial type and aid in the selection of the appropriate antibiotic. Treatment usually involves the drainage of the abscess supported by oral and/or topical antibiotics to resolve the infection. An over-the-counter analgesic like Tylenol (acetaminophen) may be used to treat pain and fever.
A foot abscess is usually treated by draining it and then using antibiotics.
Cellulitis
Cellulitis is a potentially serious skin complication in which a local bacterial infection begins to spread from the site of the initial injury. Cellulitis typically starts as a small area of inflammation that quickly spreads to surrounding tissues, causing swelling, pain, warmth, and the formation of characteristic red streaks moving upward from the foot.
The streaks, known as lymphangitis, are an indication that the infection is migrating toward the lymph nodes. If this happens, the infection can become systemic and potentially life-threatening. High fever, chills, and body aches are signs of a serious infection.
Cellulitis is typically caused by a break in the skin but is especially common in people with diabetes or poor blood circulation. S. aureus and Streptococcus are the most likely causes.
Cellulitis is a medical emergency whether you have a fever or not. If you see a red streak progressing up your foot, get medical help as soon as possible.
Uncomplicated cases may be treated with a 14-day course of broad-spectrum antibiotics. Serious ones may require hospitalization and the administration of intravenous antibiotics and fluids.
How to Spot and Treat Cellulitis
Prevention
Fungal foot infections can be prevented by keeping your feet clean and dry and by washing them every day with soap and water. Avoid going barefoot in public spaces or the sharing of footwear or nail clippers. Always keep your toenails trimmed, and change your socks and shoes regularly to prevent moisture build-up. If your feet are especially sweaty and/or prone to fungal infection, use a daily over-the-counter antifungal foot powder or spray.
Bacterial infections can be prevented by keeping your skin undamaged and clean. If the skin is cut or scraped, it should be washed immediately with soap and water and covered with a sterile bandage. If your foot is prone to dryness and cracking, you can apply a petrolatum-based foot cream to the keep the skin soft.
By contrast, the daily use of a topical antibiotic, whether prescription or over-the-counter, is not recommended as a means of prevention as it can eventually lead to antibiotic resistance.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you reach your 2019 goals.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Anakwenze, O.; Milby, A.; Gans, I. et al. Foot and Ankle Infections: Diagnosis and Management. J Amer Acad Orthop Surg. 2012;20(11):684-93. DOI: 10.5435/JAAOS-20-11-684.
Findley, K.; Oh, J.; Yang, J.; et al. Topographic diversity of fungal and bacterial communities in human skin. Nature. 2013; 498:367-370. DOI: 10.1038/nature12171.
Continue Reading
Article
An Overview of Athlete's Foot
List
The 7 Most Common Foot Skin Problems Are Caused by Infections
Article
Signs You Need Prescription Medication for Athlete's Foot
Article
The Most Common Foot and Ankle Problems and How to Spot Them
List
Common Toenail Problem Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment
Article
How Can I Treat Common Foot Problems?
Article
Do Home Treatments for Athlete's Foot Really Work?
Article
Try These Easy Natural Remedies for Treating Fungal Nail Infections
Article
Your Toenail Discoloration May Be Caused by a Fungal Infection
List
The Most Common Reasons Your Feet May Hurt
Article
Can You Treat Toenail Fungus With Topical Medications?
List
Top 4 Treatments for Athlete's Foot
Article
Over-the-Counter Antifungal Medications for Athlete's Foot
Article
How Tarsal Bones in the Feet Can Be Fractured and Have Pain
List
Got Itchy Feet? You May Have One of These Common Conditions
List
Why Uncomfortable Shoes Put You at Risk for Bunions
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more