Study: Dupilumab Showed Positive Phase 3 Results in Adolescents with Inadequately Controlled Eczema | SnackSafely.com
Home
Safe Snack Guide
Allergence
Coupons
Partner Manufacturers
About Us
SnackSafely.com Media Kit
SnackSafely.com Consumer Brochure
SnackSafely.com Advertising Guide
Subscribe to our newsletter
Contact Us
Resources
FAQ
Tools for Schools
Inspiring Food Allergy Bloggers and Authors
Search
SnackSafely.com
Home
Safe Snack Guide
Allergence
Coupons
Partner Manufacturers
About Us
SnackSafely.com Media Kit
SnackSafely.com Consumer Brochure
SnackSafely.com Advertising Guide
Subscribe to our newsletter
Contact Us
Resources
FAQ
Tools for Schools
Inspiring Food Allergy Bloggers and Authors
Emerging Therapy
News Coverage
Study
Study: Dupilumab Showed Positive Phase 3 Results in Adolescents with Inadequately Controlled Eczema
By
News Wire
-
2018/05/17
Note: This press release has been edited to show the results of the study regarding dupilumab only. Click here to see the entire press release on Sanofi’s site.
PARIS and TARRYTOWN, N.Y., May 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ — A pivotal Phase 3 trial evaluating Dupixent® (dupilumab) to treat moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adolescents (ages 12-17) met its primary and key secondary endpoints. In the trial, treatment with Dupixent as monotherapy significantly improved measures of overall disease severity, skin clearing, itching, and certain health-related quality of life measures. Dupixent is the first and only biologic to show positive results in this patient population.
“Moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis can place a particularly significant burden on adolescents, who have to deal with oozing skin lesions with unrelenting, intense itching during their formative years,” said George D. Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., President and Chief Scientific Officer of Regeneron. “Dupixent blocks the IL-4/IL-13 pathway, which is emerging as a central driver of Type 2 allergic inflammation. We are committed to investigating the potential for Dupixent across Type 2 inflammatory diseases with high unmet need including atopic dermatitis, asthma, eosinophilic esophagitis, nasal polyps, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and food allergy.”
Click to visit sponsor
Patients treated with Dupixent had significant improvement in disease severity at 16 weeks
The primary endpoints were the proportion of patients achieving Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost clear) and 75% improvement in Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI-75, co-primary endpoint outside of the U.S.) at 16 weeks. Results included:
24% of patients who received weight-based dosing of Dupixent every two weeks (200 mg or 300 mg) and 18% of patients who received a fixed dose of Dupixent every four weeks (300 mg) achieved the primary endpoint – clear or almost-clear skin (IGA; score of 0 or 1) – compared with 2% with placebo (p less than 0.0001, and p=0.0007, respectively).
41.5% of patients who received Dupixent every two weeks and 38% of patients who received Dupixent every four weeks achieved 75% or greater skin improvement (EASI-75) compared to 8% with placebo (p less than 0.0001).
There was a 66% improvement in the Dupixent every two weeks group and, 65% improvement in the Dupixent every four weeks group in average percent change from baseline in EASI score compared with a 24% improvement in the placebo group (p less than 0.0001).
There was a 48% improvement in the Dupixent every two weeks group and 45.5% improvement in the Dupixent every four weeks group in average percent change from baseline in the pruritus numerical rating scale (NRS) compared with a 19% improvement in the placebo group (p less than 0.0001).
“Current treatment options for these adolescent patients such as topical steroids, oral steroids, and non-steroidal immunosuppressants can have significant side effects,” said Elias Zerhouni, M.D., President, Global R&D, Sanofi. “We continue to explore Dupixent’s role in targeting Type 2 inflammation as an underlying cause of atopic dermatitis to potentially provide adolescents, some of whom have lived with this disease their entire lives, a therapy that treats more than just their symptoms.”
Click to visit sponsor
Dupixent safety profile was consistent with that seen in adults
For the 16-week treatment period, the overall rate of adverse events was comparable between the Dupixent groups and placebo (72% for Dupixent every two weeks, 64% for Dupixent every four weeks and 69% for placebo). There were no serious adverse events or events leading to treatment discontinuation in either Dupixent treatment group.
Adverse events that were observed at a higher rate with Dupixent included injection site reactions (8.5% for Dupixent every two weeks, 6% for Dupixent every four weeks compared with 3.5% for placebo) and conjunctivitis (10% for Dupixent every two weeks, 11% for Dupixent every four weeks compared with 5% for placebo). Skin infections were numerically lower in the Dupixent groups (11% for Dupixent every two weeks, 13% for Dupixent every four weeks compared with 20% for placebo).
Detailed results from this trial will be presented at a future medical meeting. These data will be submitted to regulatory authorities later this year. In 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for Dupixent for the treatment of moderate-to-severe (12 to 17 years of age) and severe (6 months to 11 years of age) atopic dermatitis.
The safety and efficacy of Dupixent in the adolescent atopic dermatitis population have not been fully evaluated by any regulatory authority.
Click to visit sponsor
About the Dupixent Trial in Adolescent Patients
The pivotal, Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of Dupixent monotherapy in adolescent patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. The trial enrolled 251 patients who were 12 years to 17 years of age with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease could not be adequately controlled with topical medications or for whom topical treatment was medically inadvisable. In total, 92% of these patients suffered from at least one concurrent allergic condition such as allergic rhinitis, asthma or food allergy.
The primary endpoint of this trial was the proportion of patients with an IGA score of 0 or 1 at Week 16. The IGA is a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (clear) to 4 (severe) that measures overall severity of skin lesions. A co-primary endpoint outside of the U.S. and a key secondary endpoint in the U.S. was the proportion of patients who achieved 75% or greater skin improvement as measured by the EASI-75 at Week 16. EASI is a tool used to measure the extent and severity of the disease.
Patients were randomized into one of three treatment groups for the controlled period of 16 weeks: the first group was treated with Dupixent subcutaneous injection 200 mg or 300 mg every two weeks, based on weight (with an initial dose of 400 mg or 600 mg respectively). The second group was treated with 300 mg Dupixent every four weeks (with an initial dose of 600 mg), and the third group was treated with placebo every two weeks.
Click to visit sponsor
About Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis
Atopic dermatitis, a form of eczema, is a chronic inflammatory disease with symptoms often appearing as a rash on the skin.i,ii,iii,iv Moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis is characterized by rashes often covering much of the body, and can include intense, persistent itching and skin dryness, cracking, redness, crusting, and oozing.v Itch is one of the most burdensome symptoms for patients and can be debilitating.vi In addition, patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis experience a substantial burden of disease, including painful skin lesions and intense pruritus.6
Dupilumab Development Program
Sanofi and Regeneron are studying dupilumab in a broad range of clinical development programs for diseases driven by Type 2 inflammation, including asthma (Phase 3), pediatric atopic dermatitis (Phase 3, ages 6 months – 11 years), nasal polyps (Phase 3) and eosinophilic esophagitis (Phase 2). Future trials are planned for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, grass allergy and food allergy (including peanut). These potential uses are investigational and the safety and efficacy have not been evaluated by any regulatory authority. Dupilumab is being jointly developed by Sanofi and Regeneron under a global collaboration agreement.
For more information on dupilumab clinical trials please visit www.clinicaltrials.gov.
About Dupixent® (dupilumab)
Dupixent is currently approved in the U.S. for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies, or when those therapies are not advisable. Dupixent is also approved for use in certain patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in a number of other countries, including the countries of the European Union, Canada, and Japan. The safety and efficacy of Dupixent in the adolescent atopic dermatitis population have not been fully evaluated by any regulatory authority.
In addition, the potential use of Dupixent for the treatment of certain adults and adolescents with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe asthma is currently under regulatory review in the U.S. and European Union, and the safety and efficacy for this use have not been fully evaluated by any regulatory authority.
Source: Dupixent® (dupilumab) showed positive Phase 3 results in adolescents with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis – Company Press Release
Print or share this article
Print
Mail
Tweet
Plus
Share
Click to visit sponsor
TAGS
adolescent
atopic dermatitis (eczema)
clinical study
Dr Elias Zerhouni
Dr George D Yancopoulos
dupilumab
Dupixent
Regeneron
Sanofi
study
Previous articleStudy: IgG Antibodies Activate Blood Platelets and Contribute to the Severity of Anaphylaxis
Next articleStudy: Scientists Genetically Modify Cows to Produce Milk Without Allergen
News Wire
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
News Coverage
Study: Scratching Starts Cascade of Immune Responses That Lead to Food Allergy
Allergen Strategies
Must See: ‘ViewFinder: Food for Thought – Food Allergies’
News Coverage
AAP Clinical Report Highlights Early Introduction of Peanut-Based Foods to Prevent Allergies
Add your voice	Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Join us on Facebook
Join us on Facebook
Connect with Us
37,072FansLike
414FollowersFollow
2,581FollowersFollow
5,379FollowersFollow
38SubscribersSubscribe
Subscribe
Subscribe for 2-3 email updates per month and never miss an advisory! Unsubscribe at any time. We pledge never to share your address.
Put Your School on the Map
Thousands of schools nationwide rely on the Safe Snack Guide. Add yours to our interactive map by clicking below.
Articles by Category
Advisory
Allergen Strategies
Allergence
Appeal
Correction
Coupons, Giveaways & Deals
Editorial
Emerging Technology
Emerging Therapy
Featured
Legislation
Manufacturer Partnership
Media Coverage
New Product Announcements
News Coverage
Parenting Strategies
Press Releases
Product Labeling
Product Safety
Resource Highlight
Safe Snack Guide
School Tools
Site
Social Media
Sponsored
Study
Uncategorized
Articles by Tag
Allergence allergen safe snack list American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology (AAAAI) anaphylaxis asthma auto-injector Auvi-Q child classroom clinical study cross-contact death egg-free epinephrine Epipen® Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act of 2004 (FALCPA) food allergies Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE) food allergy statistics Food and Drug Administration (FDA) food labels Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (JACI) legislation major food allergens Manufacturer Partnership Program milk allergy Mylan nurse oral immunotherapy (OIT) parenting strategy peanut-free peanut allergy peanuts preschool principal product recall Safe Snack Guide school school policies stock epinephrine legislation study teacher tragedy tree nut free update
Established in 2011, SnackSafely.com provides straightforward, actionable information to help improve the lives of the estimated 15 million people in the US suffering with food allergies.
We strive to eliminate anaphylaxis by leveraging our on-line properties to educate, advocate, and connect the allergic community with products and services that help toward achieving this goal.
Our blog covers topics of interest to the food allergy community including news reports; ongoing research, clinical studies, trials and progress toward treatment and cure; general advocacy; and advice regarding food safety and school policies.
Please see our Terms of service and Privacy Policy.
SnackSafely.com, PO Box 141, Hillsdale, NJ 07642
©2019 SnackSafely.com Inc. All rights reserved.
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();