Buy Cheap Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Online - Order Generic Imitrex Low Prices
Home
Blog
All Products
Drug Comparisons
Contact Us
All Products
Home / Muscle Relaxants / Imitrex
Imitrex
Generic Name: Sumatriptan
Brand Names: Imitrex, Alsuma, Sumavel DosePro, Imigran, Formigran, Sumax
Dosage Package: 100mg, 50mg, 25mg
Pharmacy online to buy Imitrex
OnlineHealthPharmacies
BuyOnlineGenericMeds
OnlinePharmacies247
Categories: Muscle Relaxants, Pain Relief
Description
Reviews (0)
Migraine belongs to diseases that may be hardly predicted, and a patient can only arrest the symptoms. Unfortunately, this disease is not completely studied but scientists have managed to find an effective medicine to arrest migraine symptoms. This medicine is Imitrex.
General description
Imitrex is a pharmacological analogue of the biologically active ingredient Tryptamine which performs any useful functions in the human body. Imitrex contains Sumatriptan which is considered the best product for the migraine treatment.
The efficiency and safety of Imitrex has been studied within many medical tests with 60 000 patients with different forms of migraine. Most of them have confirmed a high efficiency of Imitrex for arresting the symptoms of migraine and gave positive evaluation as to the pharmacological studies.
Serotonin is one of the derived of tryptamine, and therefore Imitrex stimulates the action of the serotonin receptors and enhances the level of this neurotransmitter in the brain. As a result of this biological process, the blood vessels of the carotid arteries are narrowed, and the migraine symptoms are reduced. one of the main causes of migraine is edema and dilation of these vessels.
In case of the narrowing of the vessels of the carotid arteries, a process of the cerebral blood circulation is not affected, and therefore Imitrex is well tolerated and does not influence on the physiological processes in the body.
Indications for the use
Migraine with or without prodrome
In what dose is Imitrex used?
Imitrex is taken only during the first signs of migraine. This medicine is not used to prevent migraine, and therefore it is pointless to take it on a regular basis.
If you feel the appearance of prodrome or the first signs of headache, it is necessary to take a pill of Imitrex as soon as earlier. The Initial Daily Dose Is 50 mg. The symptoms of migraine become to reduce and a patient will not have nausea, prodrome, or headache. Heavy head may be felt but it passes in a couple of hours.
If you feel that Imitrex 50 mg is ineffective and does not help to reduce severe headache, do not take another dose. Just increase the daily dose of Imitrex up to 100 mg next time.
If the migraine attacks appear several times per day, it is possible to take a pill of Imitrex 50 mg but with the interval of 2-3 hours.
Overdose
Using the daily dose of Imitrex more than 400 mg, the following side effects may happen: dizziness, sudden high blood pressure, vomiting, dyspnea, and shortness of breath. A patients should be controlled and provided with a gastric lavage during the overdose.
Medical interaction
Using Imitrex with ergotamine or ingredients from the group of alkaloids can cause a prolonged spasm of vessels
Imitrex can interact with MAO inhibitors, so that its concentration will be increased in the blood plasma
Do not take Imitrex with serotonin reuptake inhibitors
Preventive measures
Do not take Imitrex after the recent heart attack, during ischemic heart disease, uncontrolled hypertension, and disorder of the cerebral blood circulation
If you are under 18 years old, avoid the use of Imitrex
There is no data about the safety of Imitrex in pregnant women, and therefore it is better to avoid from the use of the drug during the pregnancy.
Reviews
There are no reviews yet.
Be the first to review “Imitrex” Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a review.
Related Products
Tramadol
Read more
Hydrocodone
Read more
Tegretol
Read more
Search for:
Product Categories
ADHD
Anti Anxiety
Anti Fungal
Antibiotics
Anticonvulsants
Antidepressants
Antivirals
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cholesterol Lowering
Erectile Dysfunction
Gastrointestinal
General Health
Hair Loss
Men's Health
Muscle Relaxants
Pain Relief
Skin Care
Sleeping Aids
Smoking Cessation
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Top Rated Products
Soma
Cialis
Viagra
Nolvadex
Lexapro
Kamagra
Cipro
Valtrex
Lasix
Nexium
Celebrex
Synthroid
Ventolin
Neurontin
Accutane
Doxycycline
Zithromax
Klonopin
Ativan
Adderall
Clomid
Propecia
Ambien
Valium
Xanax
Tramadol
Phentermine
© 2016 OurHealthIssues.com - All Right Reserved.