12 Informative Facts About Vitiligo Skin Disorder - Tip Top Treatments
Contact us: info@tiptoptreatments.com
Home
Articles
Acne
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Depression
Hair Loss
Hidradenitis Suppurativa
Plantar Fasciitis
Vitiligo
Affiliate Disclosure
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Product Reviews
Destroy Depression System by James Gordon
Natural Vitiligo Treatment System by Michael Dawson
12 Informative Facts About Vitiligo Skin Disorder
12 Informative Facts About Vitiligo Skin Disorder
Here are 12 key facts about vitiligo that you might find useful:
4 Potential Causes of Vitiligo
Stress – What does a sunburn and childbirth have in common? These and any number of other stressful life events can result in skin discoloration caused by a loss of pigmentation. Continued stress can also aggravate vitiligo, or if you didn’t have one event that caused the white spots, a stressful lifestyle in general could precipitate this condition.
Genetics – Just because your mother has vitiligo doesn’t guarantee that you will get it; but, 30% of people who do have it can trace it back to someone else in the family.
Pre-Existing Immune-Compromosing Conditions – A number of conditions and diseases, including diabetes, thyroid disease, and alopecia could make your body more susceptible this skin disorder.
Chemical Dyes – One outside influence comes from chemical dyes. Many of the products we use aren’t labeled with a warning about the side effects of the phenol chemical PPD. If you buy hair dye, cosmetics, dye for clothes, or even eye drops, read the ingredients lists carefully. If you see PPD, know that using that product could trigger vitiligo.
4 Lesser-Known Ways That Vitiligo Presents Itself
It is typical for vitiligo to show up on skin that is exposed to the sun, but vitiligo can spread to other areas, start in other places altogether, and show up in several different patterns.
Where Skin Touches Skin – You could see white spots in the creases of your elbows and knees, in your armpits, or on your groin. You could also see spots around your genitals or your rectum. Darker-skinned people have also noticed lack of pigmentation in their mouths.
In Your Hair – Prematurely grey hair could be linked to vitiligo. If the skin on your scalp loses its pigment, so will the hair follicles. Your eyelashes, eyebrows, and beard-area could also be affected.
Your Retinas – The inner part of your eye, your retina, could change color or lose pigment altogether, although this is the least common symptom.
In Different Patterns -Vitiligo usually has three patterns. The most common, general, could show up symmetrically on both sides of the body. You could also notice it in only one or two spots, which is the focal pattern, or if the spots only show up on one side of your body, that is the segmental pattern.
4 Natural Treatments
The good news: there are natural vitiligo treatments that don’t require costly doctors’ creams, prescriptions, and procedures.
A Healthy Diet – To treat vitiligo, a health diet of fruits and vegetables are a must. Dairy and meats should be avoided whenever possible. In addition, taking supplements of Vitamins B12, B-complex, C, and D encourages re-pigmentation.
Sun-Bathing – This may sound odd, especially considering one potential cause of vitiligo is sunburn, but exposure to the sun in short increments encourages the production of melanin, which is what inflicted skin is missing. Do remember, however, to always wear sunscreen of at least SPF 30 to keep the white patches from burning.
Use a Coconut Oil Rub – Coconut oil is a great moisturizer and is a safer method than the sun to promote the production of your melanocytes (your pigment cells).
Reducing Stress – Just as stress can bring on or aggravate vitiligo, the reduction of stress can allow your body to start healing. This includes getting plenty of sleep, practicing deep, slow breathing, and meditation.
Related Articles:
Michael Dawson’s Natural Vitiligo Treatment System Review
Natural Treatment For Vitiligo – Best Home Remedies
UVB Phototherapy For Vitiligo
Share This Story, Choose Your Platform!
Latest Articles:
Treating White Spots/Patches on The Skin
UVB Phototherapy For Vitiligo
Most Common Causes of Vitiligo
Discoloration of Skin Caused by Vitiligo
12 Informative Facts About Vitiligo Skin Disorder
Copyright 2015 Tip Top Treatments | All Rights Reserved