Spinal Osteoarthritis Symptoms, Causes, Treatments, Pain Relief, and More
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
Is a New Remedy for Body Odor on the Horizon?
FDA Bans Sales of All Vaginal Mesh Products
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Osteoarthritis Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Rheumatologist
Medications
Osteoarthritis Guide
Overview & Facts
Symptoms & Types
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Tools & Resources
Osteoarthritis Types
Foot and Ankle Osteoarthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Hip)
Spinal Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Spine)
Cervical Osteoarthritis (Cervical Spondylosis)
Hand Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Hand)
Shoulder Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Shoulder)
Osteoarthritis of the Knee (Degenerative Arthritis of the Knee)
Related to Osteoarthritis
Arthritis
Drug Interaction Checker
Living Healthy
Pain Management
Pill Identifier
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Tendinitis
More Related Topics
Osteoarthritis
Reference
Spinal Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Spine)
Articles OnOsteoarthritis Types
Osteoarthritis Types
Osteoarthritis Types - Spinal Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Spine)
Foot and Ankle Osteoarthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Hip)
Spinal Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Spine)
Cervical Osteoarthritis (Cervical Spondylosis)
Hand Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Hand)
Shoulder Osteoarthritis (Degenerative Arthritis of the Shoulder)
Osteoarthritis of the Knee (Degenerative Arthritis of the Knee)
What Is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is also known as degenerative joint disease. It is a condition in which the protective cartilage that cushions the tops of bones degenerates, or wears down. This causes swelling and pain. It may also cause the development of osteophytes, or bone spurs.
What Is Osteoarthritis of the Spine?
Osteoarthritis of the spine is a breakdown of the cartilage of the joints and discs in the neck and lower back.
Sometimes, osteoarthritis produces spurs that put pressure on the nerves leaving the spinal column. This can cause weakness and pain in the arms or legs.
Who Gets Osteoarthritis of the Spine?
In general, osteoarthritis happens as people get older. Younger people may get it from one of several different causes:
injury or trauma to a joint
a genetic defect involving cartilage
For people younger than age 45, osteoarthritis is more common among men. After age 45, osteoarthritis is more common among women. Osteoarthritis occurs more often among people who are overweight. It also occurs more frequently in those who have jobs or do sports that put repetitive stress on certain joints.
What Are the Symptoms of Osteoarthritis of the Spine?
Osteoarthritis of the spine may cause stiffness or pain in the neck or back. It may also cause weakness or numbness in the legs or arms if it is severe enough to affect spinal nerves or the spinal cord itself. Usually, the back discomfort is relieved when the person is lying down.
Some people experience little interference with the activities of their lives. Others become more severely disabled.
In addition to the physical effects, a person with osteoarthritis might also experience social and emotional problems. For instance, a person with osteoarthritis that hinders daily activities and job performance might feel depressed or helpless.
Continued
How Is Osteoarthritis of the Spine Diagnosed?
The best way to confirm a diagnosis of osteoarthritis is by X-ray. The doctor will take a medical history and perform a physical exam to see if the person has pain, tenderness, loss of motion involving the neck or lower back, or if symptoms are suggestive, signs of nerve involvement such as weakness, reflex changes, or loss of sensation.
The doctor may order certain tests to aid in the diagnosis of osteoarthritis of the spine. These tests include:
X-rays to look for bone damage, bone spurs, and loss of cartilage or disc; however, X-rays are not able to show early damage to cartilage.
Blood tests to exclude other diseases
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to show possible damage to discs or narrowing of areas where spinal nerves exit
How Is Osteoarthritis of the Spine Treated?
In most cases, treatment of spinal osteoarthritis is geared toward relieving the symptoms of pain and increasing a person's ability to function. The goal is to have a healthy lifestyle.
Initial treatment may include losing weight if needed and then, for everyone, maintaining a healthy weight. It may also include exercise. Besides helping with weight management, exercise can also help:
increase flexibility
improve attitude and mood
strengthen the heart
improve blood flow
make it easier to do daily tasks
Some of the exercises associated with osteoarthritis treatment include swimming, walking, and water aerobics. Exercise may be broken down into the following categories:
Strengthening exercises. These exercises seek to make muscles that support the joints stronger. They work through resistance with the use of weights or rubber bands.
Aerobic exercises. These are exercises that make the heart and circulatory system stronger.
Range-of-motion exercises. These exercises increase the body’s flexibility.
Including rest periods in the overall treatment plan is necessary. But bed rest, splints, bracing, or traction for long periods of time is not recommended.
There are non-drug treatments available for osteoarthritis, including:
massage
acupuncture
heat or cold compresses, which refers to placing ice or heated compresses onto the affected joint (check with your doctor about which option, or which combination of heat and cold options, is best for you.)
transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) using a small device that emits electrical pulses onto the affected area
nutritional supplements
Continued
Pain medications may also be used to treat osteoarthritis. Over-the-counter products include acetaminophen (Tylenol).
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are also available over-the-counter in certain strengths. Examples include aspirin, naproxen sodium (Aleve), and ibuprofen (Motrin or Advil). NSAIDs may have serious side effects. Those include heart attack, stroke, stomach irritation and bleeding, and less frequently, kidney damage.
Topical ointments and creams are also available to treat pain. They are applied to the skin in the area that hurts, but generally, these are not effective. Examples of topical drugs include Ben-Gay and Aspercreme.
Your doctor may also recommend prescription drugs to treat symptoms, as there are no medications that reverse the process. These may include prescription painkillers, mild narcotics, or injections of corticosteroids around the spinal column called epidural steroid injections. It is important to understand that these injections do not correct the underlying problem and are sometimes used without clear indication of long-term benefit. Oral steroids are not commonly used.
Most cases of spinal osteoarthritis can be treated without surgery, but surgery is sometimes performed. Spinal osteoarthritis is one of the causes of spinal stenosis, or narrowing of the spinal canal. In cases where bladder and bowel function is impaired, where the nervous system is damaged, or when walking becomes very difficult, surgery will likely be recommended.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on September 9, 2017
Sources
SOURCE:
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS): “Spinal Stenosis” and "Osteoarthritis."
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next In Osteoarthritis Types
Cervical Osteoarthritis (Cervical Spondylosis)
Top Picks
Knee Injuries and OA
Tips for Living Better With OA
Knee Arthritis: Treatment Advances
10 Ways to Exercise Hands and Fingers
Gout: Risk Factors and Triggers
Better Sleep With Osteoarthritis
further reading
Actor Shailene Woodley has learned to take her scoliosis in stride
Scoliosis Treatment
An Overview of Scoliosis
Scoliosis: Tests Your Doctor Uses for Diagnosis
What Is Spinal Stenosis?
What are the Symptoms of Scoliosis?
Laminectomy Animation
Spinal Stenosis Topics
Today on WebMD
Staying Active
Even with arthritis pain.
Better Living With Osteoarthritis
10 tips for your daily routine.
Acupuncture Guide
How it helps arthritis, migraines, and dental pain.
Coping With Pain?
Get personalized tips to reduce discomfort.
Recommended for You
SLIDESHOW
18 Ways to Keep Your Joints Healthy
HEALTH CHECK
Living With Chronic Pain: What Can You Do?
Article
Adult Obesity and Arthritis
Article
Everyday Tips for Healthy Joints
QUIZ
Do You Know How to Relieve OA Pain?
Article
Tai Chi for Arthritis Relief
Slideshow
10 Exercises for Hand and Finger Pain
Slideshow
Devices to Make Living With OA Easier
Tools & Resources
Best Exercises for OA
Quiz: How to Relieve OA Pain
Exercises for Healthy Knees
OA Pain? Practical Tips to Help
Tips for Healthy Joints
OA: Symptoms and Risk Factors
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.