Five Ways Music Therapy Can Help during Cancer Treatment | University of Utah Health
Jump to main navigation
Jump to content
Services & Treatments
`
See All
Related Searches
Care Providers
See All
Locations
See All
New look. Same
high-quality care.
Learn More
Menu
Patient Care
Treatment & Support
Cancer Types
Treatment & Services
For New Patients
Billing & Insurance
Wellness & Support
Clinical Trials & Research Studies
Screening & Prevention
Cancer Screening & Prevention
Family History
Our Care Locations
Salt Lake City
Farmington
South Jordan
Affiliate Hospitals
Directions & Parking
Make an Appointment
Refer a Patient
Find a Doctor
Ask a Question
Research
Our Cancer Center
Cancer Research Programs
Clinical Trials & Research Studies
Disease Centers
Shared Resources
Join our Cancer Center
Training Opportunities
Faculty Recruitment
Conferences & Events
Find a Cancer Researcher
Education
For Patients & Visitors
Cancer Information
Treatment & Services
Wellness & Support
Cancer Screening & Prevention
Family History
For Students & Professionals
Training Opportunities
Conferences & Events
Cancer Health Equity
Ask a Question
Search Patient Education
About Us
Our Locations
Salt Lake City
Farmington
South Jordan
Affiliate Hospitals
Directions & Parking
Newsroom
HCI Quick Facts
Visit Our Blog
Press Releases
About Us
Welcome to HCI
Annual Reports
Community Outreach & Engagement
Dining at HCI
Leadership
Contact Us
Ask a Question
Get Involved
Search Jobs
Giving
Volunteering
About Volunteering
Volunteer Opportunities
Giving
Ways to Give
About Huntsman Cancer Foundation
Event & Fundraising Opportunities
Grateful Patient
Donate Now
Donate
HCI Home
News Room
2017
Five Ways Music Therapy Can Help during Cancer Treatment
Jun 14, 2017 9:00 AM
Author: Beth Hardy, SCMT, MT-BC
Music can have a powerful effect on the mind and body. Think about how a song can lift your spirits or make you want to get up and dance. Music therapy is an evidence-based practice that harnesses the power of music to improve quality of life in people dealing with illness. Whether someone is having physical symptoms such as pain, nausea, or shortness of breath, or emotional struggles such as depression, anxiety, isolation, loneliness, anger, or fear, music therapy can help. Music therapists are credentialed professionals who have received a bachelor's degree or higher in music therapy and who maintain a national board-certification.
Here are just five of the many ways music therapy can help those affected by cancer:
It can ease pain and other symptoms.
Studies have shown that music therapy can help reduce pain perception. In a study of patients who underwent surgery for lung cancer, the patients who received music therapy before and after surgery reported less pain and had lower blood pressure, heart rate and anxiety. In addition, the dose and frequency of pain medication given after the surgery was reduced in the group who received music therapy.
It helps you express emotions.
Music therapists often help patient write songs about their experiences with cancer treatment. Songwriting can help people process thoughts and emotions that can be hard to express through talking. You can write about feelings such as sadness, anger, disappointment, fear, and confusion in a song.
It connects you with people.
Music therapists bring a variety of instruments with them when they see patients in the hospital. Guitar, drums, shakers, ukulele, harmonica, flute, and keyboard are just some of the instruments that a music therapist might use with a patient. When patients and caregivers play instruments together, they get to interact in a new, different, fun way. This can help you share feelings and feel connected with other people.
Listening to your favorite music makes you happier.
Music therapists know lots of different songs, artists, and styles of music. When patients listen to their preferred music, they often report higher feelings of relaxation, calm, safety, and comfort.
It lets you focus on something other than cancer.
Going through cancer treatment can be stressful and exhausting for patients and caregivers. Things can change day to day. Music therapists meet patients in the moment and help them manage whatever symptoms they are dealing with at that time. Each music therapy session can look different. Music therapists are trained to treat the whole person, taking into account the physical, mental, and emotional needs of each patient.
Huntsman Cancer Institute (HCI) has two music therapists on staff who see inpatients, outpatients, and caregivers. Visit the HCI Linda B. and Robert B. Wiggins Wellness and Integrative Health Center website or call 801-587-4585 to learn more about music therapy and to schedule an appointment.
Beth Hardy, SCMT, MT-BC
Huntsman Cancer Institute
wellness.center@hci.utah.edu
creative arts cancer care wellness center
Sign Up for Weekly Health Updates
Get weekly emails of the latest news from HealthFeed.
Email Address *
For Patients
Find a Location
Ask a Question
Screening & Prevention
Wellness & Support
Press Releases
In The Media
Site Links
About Us
Find a Doctor
Careers
Circle of Hope Blog
News & Events
Directions & Parking
Giving
Helpful Links
Cancer Learning Center
Wellness & Support
Patient Education Resources
Patient Rights & Responsibilities
Privacy Statement
Non-Discrimination Policy
Copyright & Trademark
Webmaster
Contact Us
Huntsman Cancer Institute
2000 Circle of Hope
Salt Lake City, UT 84112
Directions
Cancer Hospital
1950 Circle of Hope
Salt Lake City, UT 84112
Phone: 801-587-7000
Toll-free: 1-800-824-2073
Physician Referral Line: 801-213-2326
Fax: 801-213-6048
Research Center: 801-585-0303
Cancer Learning Center: 1-888-424-2100
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Youtube
Instagram
All clinical services and programs are part of University of Utah Health Hospitals and Clinics.
Copyright © 2018 University of Utah Health