What is common cold treatment for common cold? - Pintoos Kitchen
Follow by Email
COME AND GET IT !!! Subscribe to get the scoop on all the latest juicy bits.
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Menu
Friday, 19 August 2016
Home Health What is common cold treatment for common cold?
What is common cold treatment for common cold?
Pocketnewsalert 21:06
India 20 August 2016: The common cold which is also known as acute viral rhinopharyngitis, or acute coryza. It is a viral infectious disease that infects the upper respiratory system. Being the most common infectious disease in humans, the cold is mainly caused by coronaviruses or rhinoviruses. Colds are so common and recurring because the human body can never build up resistance to all the viruses that can cause the common cold. An average human catches common cold 7 times a year.
What are the symptoms of Common Cold?The most common symptoms of cold are :
Dry throat
influenza
flu
Sore throat
Cough
Mild fever
Cold and fever
Sneezing
Hoarse voice
Blocked nose
Mild headache
Here are some fast facts about the common cold :
The symptoms of Common Cold include dry throat, blocked nose and sneezing
Approximately 25% of people do not suffer any symptoms when infected with the cold virus
Common cold is caused by more than 200 viruses
Common cold sometimes may result in complications like acute bronchitis and pneumonia
People who have asthma are more at risk of catching the common cold
Common cold lasts for around 10 days
Drink Hot Beverages for common cold
Hot beverages help in getting quick relief from the symptoms of cold like sore throat, runny nose, and fatigue. As drinking hot beverages helps in loosening up your sinus secretions. Hot beverages like herbal teas work the best to provide relief from common cold symptoms.
Steps to use Hot Beverages as a home remedy for common cold :
Just drink a cup of herbal tea 3 times a day to find quick relief from the symptoms of common cold
Hot Chicken Soup or Broth for common cold
Chicken Soup is a great tasting home remedies for common cold and cough. It not only tastes great but it also provides you quick relief from the symptoms of common cold. You can have any homemade soup as remedy for cold.
Steps to use Hot Chicken Soup as a home remedy for common cold :
Take a cup of chicken broth.
Add chopped garlic to it and bring it to a boil.
Top it up with some cilantro.
Sip on this chicken soup to get relief from the symptoms of Common cold.
Taking a Steam Bath for common cold
When you have common cold it congests your nasal passage making it difficult to breathe. Taking a steam bath when you have cold helps to decongest the nasal passage and gives relief from fatigue.
Steps to use steam bath as a home remedy for common cold :
Fill a bathtub with warm water and soak in it for 15 to 20 minutes. If You don't have a bathtub then you can soak your legs in a bucket half filled with warm water which will also give you relief.
Steam Inhalation for Cold treatment
If you are in no mood to soak yourself in warm water, but want relief from cold try the steam inhalation technique which decongests the nasal passage.
How to use steam inhalation as a home remedy for common cold :
Take a small bucket of steaming hot water.
Lean over the bucket.
Wrap a towel round your head.
Inhale the vapors coming from the hot water it will decongest your nasal passage making it easier to breathe.
Optionally you can also add a few drops of eucalyptus oil in the hot water if you like.
Eating Garlic for common cold and sore throat
Garlic is known for its numerous beneficial properties for health. Garlic is a powerful antioxidant with antimicrobial, antiviral and antibiotic properties. For colds and flus, it also provides decongestant and expectorant effects. Chewing on raw garlic causes a chemical reaction which releases allicin. Allicin is a powerful antibacterial only present for a short while after garlic is crushed. Eating fresh garlic is sure to knock out the bacteria causing common cold.
How to use garlic as home remedy for common cold :
Munch on one or two fresh garlic cloves. Let me warn you the taste is not so pleasant.
If you dont want to munch on fresh whole garlic cloves then you can try this.
Crush up to two cloves and let the minced garlic rest for about 15 minutes, allowing the allicin in garlic to activate. Add honey or a touch of olive oil to this crushed garlic to reduce the pungent taste.
Eating Ginger for cold treatment:
Common cold causes inflammation and ginger is well known for its anti-inflammatory properties. Its natural spiciness helps clear congestion in the nasal passage.
How to use Ginger as a home remedy for common cold :
You can add shredded ginger to herbal teas.
You can also Ginger to hot soups or broths it is sure to help you fight the symptoms of Common Cold.
Taking Honey for Common Cold for cold treatment
Honey is well known for its antiviral properties. Common cold generally causes a sore throat. Honey helps in soothing sore throat. Antioxidant properties present in honey help the immune system fight viruses and bacteria.
How to use honey as a home remedy for common cold :
You can directly take a tablespoon of raw honey twice a day to get relief from the symptoms of Common Cold.
You can also mix raw honey with warm milk or herbal teas and drink it before going to bed for quick relief from cold.
Turmeric for common cold
Turmeric is a herb used to get quick relief from the symptoms of Common Cold. The curcumin present in turmeric is said to have numerous health benefits. Turmeric is known for its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. Turmeric helps in relieving chest congestion and clears the nasal passage.
How to use Turmeric as a home remedy for common cold :
Take a glass of warm milk
Add a little turmeric to it and mix well
Drink it to get quick relief from cold
Gargle with hot salt water is the remedies for cold
Sore throat is a major symptom of Common Cold. Gargling with hot water soothes sore throat and gives you relief. Warm water helps in hydrating the throat and salt helps fight the infection. Gargle twice a day to get relief from sore throat.
Elderberry to treat common cold
Elderberry is an age old herb which is said to provide relief from common cold effectively. The bioflavonoids present in Elderberry improve your immune system. Common cold causes swelling in the sinuses, the anti-inflammatory properties of Elderberry helps in providing relief from this inflammation.
How to use Elderberry for common cold :
Elderberry syrup is easily available in any chemist.
Have a tablespoon of Elderberry syrup twice a day for quick relief from common cold.
Using essential oils is one of the remedies for cold
We all know that essential oils are good for massaging the body, but they are also useful for getting rid of Common Cold. Eucalyptus oil helps overcome nasal congestion, peppermint oil functions as a nice expectorant. The aroma helps soothe your nerves and promotes a sense of relaxation.
How to use essential oils as home remedy for common cold / Sore throat / influenza / flu
You can use essential oils for massaging your chest and neck during cold to give You a relief.
You can also add these essential oil while taking a warm water steam bath.
Eating Oysters for treating common cold
Studies have proven that zinc boosts your immune system and helps your body fight bacteria causing cold. Oysters are a rich source of zinc, and provide more zinc to our body than any other food.
Eating Mushrooms for cold treatment
Mushrooms contain some of the most powerful natural medicines on the planet, especially for boosting your immunity during cold and flu season. Hence mushrooms are a good addition to our diet when we have common cold.
Eat Greek Yogurt are the remedies for cold
Greek Yogurt is rich in probiotics which make our immune system strong. We recommend you to have unflavored greek yogurt. You can top with honey to increase the flavor and cold fighting properties.
Chamomile Cure
The herb chamomile helps in providing relief from common cold. Chamomile helps in clearing your lungs and nasal passages. It is also known for its anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties.
How to use chamomile as a home remedy for common cold :
Chamomile leaves can be added to hot water while taking nasal inhalation.
You may also drink chamomile tea to get relief from a sore throat and blocked nose.
Using Saline Nasal Drops for treating cold
Saline nasal drops are easily available in any chemist. Saline nasal drops give you relief from blocked nose caused by common cold.
How to make home made saline nasal drops :
Boil eight ounces of water and add 1/4 teaspoon of salt in it. Fill this salt solution into a nasal spray bottle and use it four to six times a day.
Using fenugreek for common cold
Fenugreek has proved to be an awesome home remedy for common cold. Fenugreek has strong antiviral properties which help in fighting cold and flu.
How to use Fenugreek as a home remedy for common cold :
Boil fenugreek seeds in a cup of water
Let it steep for some time
When it gets cool, strain the seeds
Mix the water with some honey and drink it.
Drink A Lot Of Fluids for cold treatment
Cold means collection of mucus in your respiratory track. Drinking a lot of fluids makes the mucus thin and flowing and can be easily expelled by our body. Drink atleast 8 ounces of water every 2 hours.
Get enough rest for cold treatment
To fight cold your body uses a lot of energy, hence its adcised for you to take enough rest so that you do not exert your body a lot. Taking rest helps your body recover from common cold quickly.
Eat more citrus fruits for common cold
Vitamin C helps in improving your immune system. A healthy immune system helps you fight common cold viruses better and provides quick relief from common cold. Citrus fruits are a rich source of vitamin C hence we should include citrus fruits in our diet to fight cold.
Share This:
Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest Linkedin Print
Health
What is common cold treatment for common cold? Reviewed by Pocketnewsalert on 21:06 Rating: 5
No comments:
Post a Comment
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Like us on Facebook
Popular Posts
Amazing Benefits of Lotus Seeds/Makhana for Skin, Hair, Health
Benefits of Lotus Seeds/Makhana for Skin, Hair, Health You will not believe if I tell you that Lotus seed is more beneficial tha...
Peppermint meaning in English, hindi, telugu,tamil,marathi,Gujrathi,Malayalam,Kannada
Peppermint name in English, Hindi, Marathi Gujarati, Tamil, Telugu etc Names of condiments and spices in Hindi, English, Gujrati and ot...
Banana,Kiwi, Dragon,Lemon Fruit name in English, Hindi, Marathi Gujarati, Tamil, Telugu
Banana Fruit name in English, Hindi, Marathi Gujarati, Tamil, Telugu etc Article Source Names of Fruits in Hindi, English, Gujrati a...
Created By Sora Templates | Distributed By Gooyaabi Templates