Newer Eczema Treatments Offer Relief
Follow Us On
Sign Up For Free Newsletter
Menu
Health Conditions
AIDS INFORMATION
ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE INFORMATION
BONE AND JOINT INFORMATION
CANCER INFORMATION
CARDIOVASCULAR HEALTH INFORMATION
CAREGIVING INFORMATION
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM INFORMATION
CLINICAL TRIALS INFORMATION
COGNITIVE HEALTH INFORMATION
COSMETIC INFORMATION
DENTAL AND ORAL INFORMATION
DIABETES INFORMATION
» View All »
HealthDay Video
HealthDay TV
HealthDay TV en Español
HealthDay Living
Wellness Library
HealthDay en Español
Physician&apos;s Briefing
License Our News
Follow Us On
Sign Up For Free Newsletter
Newer Eczema Treatments Offer Relief
Please note: This article was published more than one year ago. The facts and conclusions presented may have since changed and may no longer be accurate. And "More information" links may no longer work. Questions about personal health should always be referred to a physician or other health care professional.
FRIDAY, Oct. 27, 2017 (HealthDay News) -- Children and adults with eczema shouldn't suffer in silence because new, improved treatments can do more to help ease the uncomfortable, itchy rash associated with the skin condition.
Many adults diagnosed with eczema (atopic dermatitis) actually had the condition since they were children but were never diagnosed, explained Dr. Luz Fonacier. She is an allergist in Mineola, N.Y., and an American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology (ACAAI) board member.
"Atopic dermatitis is underdiagnosed in the United States," Fonacier said in an ACAAI news release.
"Many adults don't seek out medical care, preferring to self-treat instead, either with home remedies or over-the-counter drugs. Often, they aren't aware they have eczema, and they also don't know treatments have changed a lot in the last few years. There are new drugs and topical medications that can make a huge difference in their quality of life," she said.
Eczema causes scaly rashes that can become infected, the ACAAI said. Eczema also leads to more than itchy, dry skin. Many people with the condition have trouble sleeping and struggle with emotional distress, which can affect their relationships.
ACAAI allergists noted, however, that newer treatments could help patients sleep and improve their outlook and overall quality of life.
According to Dr. Mark Boguniewicz, "In the last few years we've seen the introduction of targeted therapies, also known as precision medicine." Boguniewicz is a pediatric allergist and immunologist in Denver and a member of the ACAAI.
Two new drugs have already been approved for the treatment of eczema, including:
Crisaborole (Eucrisa): An anti-inflammatory ointment for use in people aged 2 years and older that reduces skin itchiness, redness and swelling.
Dupilumab (Dupixent): A biologic therapy given by injection to adults with moderate to severe eczema when medications applied to the skin aren't appropriate or effective.
"The takeaway message is that there are effective medications available that help relieve eczema symptoms and now can also target the underlying cause," Boguniewicz said.
"People with eczema have been frustrated by the limitations of existing treatments. We're very excited by the new medications, which were developed based on better understanding of atopic dermatitis. We expect additional therapies to be approved soon. An allergist has the right training and expertise to diagnose your eczema, and to help you find relief with the right treatments," he said.
The new medications were scheduled to be discussed on Friday at the annual meeting of the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, in Boston. Information presented at meetings is generally viewed as preliminary until it's been published in a peer-reviewed journal.
More information
The American Academy of Dermatology has more about eczema.
SOURCE: American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, news release, Oct. 27, 2017
-- Mary Elizabeth Dallas
Last Updated: Oct 27, 2017
Copyright © 2017 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Gen Xers in Despair?
Related Articles
Heart Patients Pay the Price When Nearby Pharmacy Closes
More TV, Tablets, More Attention Issues at Age 5
Hot-Car Deaths Hit Record High in 2018
Chemo Drug Shortages Have Little Effect on Cancer Care: Study
Home
HealthDay TV
Wellness Library
HealthDay en Español
Privacy Policy
Physician&apos;s Briefing
License Our News
About HealthDay
Ad Policy
Contact Us
Copyright ©2019 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Legal Statement
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.