 The Importance of Dose in Land-based Supervised Exercise in Hip Osteoarthritis | Medznat
Jump to navigation
A one-stop professional healthcare resource and community for Pain Management
GET FULL ACCESS TO:
Over 60+video and audio summaries
2300+valuable and Insightful resources
10000 + growing community of registered Health care Professionals
Register
Login
Register with a valid Email ID *
Profile Speciality
Choose Your Speciality * - Select a value -Obstetrics-GynecologyAllergologyAnestheticsGastroenterologyCardiologyTherapeutic exercise and sports medicineManual therapyNeurology General PractitionerOrthopedicsOtorhinolaryngologyPsychiatryRheumatologyStomatologySurgeonTherapyTraumatologyOthers
I am a healthcare professional. By clicking 'Register', I agree to Medznat's Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy
Term and Conditions *
I confirm, that I have read that terms and conditions, and I accept them
CAPTCHA
This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
What code is in the image? *
Enter the characters shown in the image.
Registered Email ID *
Password *
Forgot Password?
OR
Log in with Facebook
Login
Search
Login
Register/
En
Ru
You are here
Home
The Importance of Dose in Land-based Supervised Exercise in Hip Osteoarthritis
Primary tabs
View (active tab)
Generate PDF
SCIENCE
Abstracts
The Importance of Dose in Land-based Supervised Exercise in Hip Osteoarthritis
Key Take-Away:
There is substantial data to support the short-term beneficial effects of exercise on pain and function for knee osteoarthritis (OA). However, the importance of dose in land-based supervised exercises for hip OA has not been explored yet. The present study focused on the applicability of land-based supervised exercise interventions with varying compliance in people with hip osteoarthritis generating acceptable results in pain reduction and improvement in physical function.
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis, affecting millions of people worldwide. There is lack of treatments that has proven to cure or slow the progression of disease.
ABSTRACT:
Background:
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis, affecting millions of people worldwide. There is lack of treatments that has proven to cure or slow the progression of disease.
Clinical guidelines have recommended land based exercises to be a part of an effective overall management strategy for people with hip OA. The study aimed to compare the effects of land-based exercise programmes with high vs. low or uncertain compliance with dose recommendations among people with hip OA.
Expand section
Methods:
A systematic review with meta-analyses of supervised exercise programmes in people with symptomatic hip OA was conducted. Dose of the exercise interventions was evaluated according to the American College of Sports Medicine's (ACSM) recommendations for developing and maintaining cardio-respiratory fitness, muscular strength and flexibility in healthy adults.
Compliance ratios with the recommendations were calculated. Standardized Mean Differences (SMDs) were calculated in meta-analyses for the outcomes pain and self-reported physical function. Outcome effects were compared between the sub-groups of studies with interventions with "high" vs. "uncertain" compliance with the ACSM recommendations.
Expand section
Results:
Twelve studies including 1202 participants were included in this analysis. Seven studies were categorized with "high" and five with "uncertain" compliance with the ACSM recommendations.
While ten studies had an overall low risk of bias. Comparing exercise with no exercise, the pooled SMD for pain was -0.42 (95% CI-0.58, -0.26) in the high compliance group, favoring exercise. In the uncertain compliance group, the pooled SMD was 0.04 (95% CI -0.24, 0.31). For physical function, the SMD was -0.41 (95% CI -0.58, -0.24) in the high compliance group and -0.23 (95% CI -0.52, 0.06) in the uncertain compliance group.
Expand section
Conclusion:
The results showed that land-based supervised exercise interventions with high compliance to the ACSM recommendations result in significantly larger improvements in pain and non-significantly larger improvement in self-reported physical function compared with land-based supervised exercise interventions with uncertain compliance.
Source:
Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2017 Jun 22
Link to the source:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28648741
The original title of the article:
The importance of dose in land-based supervised exercise for people with hip osteoarthritis. A systematic review and meta-analysis
Authors:
Moseng T et al
Expand section
Exploratory, Hip Osteoarthritis, Hip Joints, Systematic review and Meta-analysis
Log in or register to post comments
Portal for the healthcare professionals
MY HOME
NEWS
Pain Management
Russia Regulatory
Global Regulatory
SCIENCE
Abstracts
Summaries
Clinical Research
Systematic Reviews
Case Studies
E-Posters
REGULATORY
Russia
Global
DRUGS
Drug Flash Cards
EVENTS
Conference Calendar
EXPERT VOICE
Expert Drug Opinion
EDUCATION
Lectures
Smart Guidelines
Textbooks & Charts
Student Corner
Presentations
HELP THE PATIENT
Patient Education
YOUR PRACTICE
Practice Management
AV ROOMS
Audio Summaries
Video Summaries
DISEASE AREA
Anesthesia
Arthritis
Dental Pain
ENT
Pelvic pain
Pain
Low Back Pain
Headache
Dysmenorrhea
Diabetic Neuropathy
Migraine
Osteoarthritis
Osteoporosis
Gout
Post herpetic neuralgia
Injuries
Phantom Pain
Fibromyalgia
Gonarthrosis
Sprain
About
Medznat, an initiative of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., is a resource for practicing doctors to enable their continuous learning. It provides unbiased and relevant medical information, apart from several other useful resources to aid their daily practice.
Partners
Medznat brings together premium content from leading publishers globally, to deliver comprehensive and up-to-date medical information.
Content Source
Medznat presents current medical information from the world's leading sources - the largest databases PubMed and DOAJ. Translation of articles made by ABBYY-LS
The scientific editors of the Medznat website make sure that our publications are accurate, simple and useful to the readers. We are always glad for your questions or suggestions!
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. dose not endores and its not responsible for the accuracy of the content, or for practices or standards of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd sources. Please read our Terms of Use for more information
© 2015 Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. All rights reserved.
Please read the legal notice for further details. Unless otherwise specified, all product and service names appearing in this Internet site are trademarks owned by or licensed to Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories its subsidiaries or affiliates.
Disclaimer
Contact us