Athlete's Foot: Drugs & Creams Used To Treat It | SteriShoe Blog | UV Shoe Sanitizers For Reinfection Prevention
View Cart / Checkout | My Account Questions? Call now for a free consult. 1-866-686-7463
Why SteriShoe?
Toenail Laser
Toenail Fungus
Athlete’s Foot
Diabetic Foot Care
Shoe and Foot Odor
Success Stories
Customer Testimonials
Featured on “The Doctors”
Physician Testimonials
Products
SteriShoe+
SteriShoe Essential
Replacement Parts
FAQ
For Doctors
Become a SteriShoe Doctor
For Current Partners
Doctor Order Form
How It Works
Scientific Research
Current Users
Replacement Parts
Register Your Product
Share Your Success Story
How to Use Video
Instruction Manual
Returns
Try Now
SteriShoe+
SteriShoe Essential
Search
Foot Care Blog
You are here: Home / Foot Care Blog / Athlete's Foot / 15 Drugs Used To Treat Athlete’s Foot: Relative Risks and How They...
15 Drugs Used To Treat Athlete’s Foot: Relative Risks and How They Work
October 31, 2013 /0 Comments/in Athlete's Foot /by Jenn F.
Athlete’s foot (sometimes called tinea pedis) is a fungal infection of the skin marked by flaking, scaling, and itchy red patches between the toes and along the side of the foot. It spreads in moist, warm areas such as bathroom or locker room floors and through infected towels, socks, shoes, and clothing. In some cases, the infection may spread to the groin (where it is called “jock itch”) or other body parts (where it is called “ringworm”). There are many different drugs used to treat this infection, including prescription and nonprescription oral medications, as well as topical treatments.
Do Oral Drugs Work To Treat Tinea Pedis?
A review of 15 trials involving 1438 participants found that terbinafine and itraconazole were more effective than placebos — and that terbinafine is more effective than griseofulvin. These newer treatments have received much more attention in scientific evaluations. Unfortunately, all oral drugs for athlete’s foot contain some sort of side effect risk, with the most common being gastrointestinal issues. Researchers concluded that future trials are needed to identify the most effective drugs for treatment, with special consideration taken for isolating the most cost-effective methods.
Image Source: YaySave.com
What Drugs Are Used To Treat Athlete’s Foot?
– Butenafine: A cream applied 2x daily for a week to stop growth; may result in burning, blistering, itching.
– Ciclopirox: A shampoo, lacquer or 2x-a-day cream that prevents fungal growth; may cause headaches, irritation.
– Clioquinol: A cream used 3-4x a day for a month to inhibit fungal growth; may cause blistering, swelling, itching.
– Clotrimazole: A cream that interferes with fungal cell reproduction that may cause stinging, redness and rash.
– Econazole: A once-a-day cream that interferes with fungal growth; may cause local stinging, redness and rash.
– Fluconazole: An oral pill that slows the growth of fungus; may cause headache, nausea, diarrhea, indigestion.
– Griseofulvin: A daily tablet taken for 6 months to make the skin resistant to fungus; may cause liver damage.
– Itraconazole: A 2x/day capsule that interferes with fungal membranes; risk of high blood pressure, liver failure.
– Ketoconazole: Daily oral or 2x/day cream that kills fungi; risks include liver damage, increased blood sugars.
– Oxiconazole: Daily cream that inhibits fungal growth; side effects include tenderness, bumps, irritation.
– Sertaconazole: 2x/day monthly cream that kills fungus in immunocompromised patients; swelling, rash risks.
– Sertaconazole Nitrate: 2x/day cream that kills fungus in compromised patients; hyperpigmentation risk.
– Sulconazole: 2x/day cream that blocks fungal growth; may cause itching, burning, stinging.
– Terbinafine: Tablet or topical solution that stops fungal growth; liver risks, abdominal pain, hives, nausea.
– Tolnaftate: 6-week cream or spray that blocks fungal growth; risk of irritation, itching and inflammation.
Image Source: Medscape.com
SteriShoe UV Shoe Sanitizer: What It Can Do For Athlete’s Foot Patients
If you have athlete’s foot, you are probably hoping it will be completely cured by the time you finish your course of treatment. Unfortunately, little flakes of skin and fungal spores can infect socks, sheets, towels, floor surfaces and shoes. It’s easy to wash most of these items in a laundry machine or spray down surfaces with antifungal chemicals. However, the footwear we use day in and day out can be a difficult area to sanitize properly.
That’s why we developed the SteriShoe UV shoe sanitizer, a device that uses UVC light to kill up to 99.9% of the fungus, bacteria, viruses and other pathogens in your shoes within 45 minutes. While UV light cannot be used directly on the body to cure athlete’s foot, it is a clinically-proven, doctor-recommended method for preventing re-infection and the spread of athlete’s foot.
Tags: athlete's foot prevention, athletes foot nail, athletes foot on toenail, athletes foot remedies, athlete’s foot, cure for athletes foot, foot fungus, foot fungus symptoms, fungal laser foot fungus removal, fungal nail laser treatment, help athletes foot, home treatment for foot fungus, how to treat fungal infections, laser treatment for fungal nails, natural remedy for athletes foot, onychomycosis laser treatment, shoe sanitizer, SteriShoe, symptoms of athletes feet, ultraviolet shoe sanitizer
Share this entry
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google+
Share on Pinterest
Share on Linkedin
Share on Tumblr
Share on Vk
Share on Reddit
Share by Mail
You might also like
Home Remedies: How to Treat Toenail Fungus without Seeing a Doctor
What Is Ringworm? How to Identify and Treat This Common Fungal Infection
What Causes Toenail Fungus -- Tight Shoes?
Antimicrobial Socks: What Exactly Are You Putting On Your Feet?
Can Nail Removal Cure Toenail Fungus Once And For All?
Study Reveals People Cooperate Better If You Have Smelly Feet
What Do Your Feet Say About You?
Can I Wash Stinky Shoes In A Washing Machine?
0 replies
Leave a Reply
Want to join the discussion?
Feel free to contribute!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Search The Blog
Most Recent Entries
5 Ways To Protect Yourself From UV This Summer
New Technology Can Help Homeless Suffering With Foot Fungus
The Healing Wonders of Moose Saliva: Could It Be a Legit Foot Fungus Treatment?
Dreadful Foot Doctor Topics: Dealing with Sweaty, Smelly Feet
Foot Facts: Eight in Ten Americans Suffer from Issues like Toenail Fungus or Shoe Odor
Jublia: A New Topical Nail Fungus Treatment
Why is Lotrimin Restricted in California?
Age-Related Skin Issues: What to Expect as You Get Older
How Contagious Is Athlete’s Foot? Your Bad Habits, Not Others, May Be to Blame
Risks & Rewards: 4 of Nature’s Wonderful Antibiotics
Categories
Athlete's Foot
Diabetes
Foot Health & Hygiene
Laser Nail Treatment
Shoe Odor
Toenail Fungus
Toenail Fungus Treatments
Uncategorized
Archives
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
*Studies show that shoes are contaminated with microorganisms that cause foot infections. (Source: Journal of American Podiatric Medicine Association 2012 Jul-Aug; 102(4):309-13.) The SteriShoe sanitizer is not a medical device and does not treat toenail fungus, athlete’s foot or other foot infections. SteriShoe is for use inside shoes and not on feet. SteriShoe promotes good hygiene and is recommended for use in conjunction with toenail fungus and athlete’s foot treatments.
About Us | Foot Care Blog | Contact | Patent | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Return Policy | Order Status | Register Product
© Copyright - Shoe Care Innovations, Inc. | 1370 Willow Rd., Suite 200, Menlo Park, CA 94025 | 1-866-686-Shoe (7463)
SteriShoe is a registered trademark of Shoe Care Innovations, Inc. in the United States and other jurisdictions.
Tips on Caring For Leather Shoes & Preventing Stinky Feet Frequently Asked Questions About Laser Toenail Fungus Treatments
Scroll to top