Dupixent (dupilumab): An Injectable Medication for Eczema
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Dupixent (dupilumab): An Injectable Medication for Moderate to Severe Eczema
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Skin Health
Eczema & Dermatitis
Acne
Psoriasis
Fungal, Bacterial & Viral Infections
More Skin Conditions
Skin Care & Cleansing Products
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Skin Health Eczema & Dermatitis
Dupixent (dupilumab): An Injectable Medication for Moderate to Severe Eczema
There may be a good solution to your endless scratching and skin patches
Print
By Colleen Doherty, MD | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated March 27, 2019
More in Skin Health
Eczema & Dermatitis
Acne
Psoriasis
Fungal, Bacterial & Viral Infections
More Skin Conditions
Skin Care & Cleansing Products
Atopic dermatitis, also known as eczema, is a common, chronic skin disease that causes dry, itchy, flaky, and sometimes crusting or oozing red skin. It often begins in childhood and for some people can persist through adulthood. According to the American Academy of Dermatology, approximately 1 to 3 percent of adults worldwide have atopic dermatitis.
The precise cause of atopic dermatitis is still being debated and studied, but likely entails a complex interplay between a person's genes, their immune system, and an impaired function of the epidermis—the outermost layer of a person's skin.
Atopic dermatitis can usually be managed with:
good skin care, including moisturization
removal of triggers and aggravating factors
treatments applied on the skin, like prescription steroid creams and ointments
In some adults with moderate to severe eczema, however, their disease doesn't improve with traditional therapies (or they are unable to take these therapies), so a genetically engineered injectable may be needed.
How to Treat and Prevent Eczema
Dupixent (dupilumab) is the first and only injectable medication FDA-approved for treating moderate to severe eczema in adults. It is injected every two weeks into the thigh or lower abdomen within the fatty layer just below the skin—this is called a subcutaneous injection. This medication can be used in combination with topical steroid therapies, or it can be used by itself.
Your doctor or nurse can teach you or a loved one how to give the injection, so you can do it from the comfort of your home.
How Dupixent (dupilumab) Works
Dupixent (dupilumab) is a biologic medication, which means that it works on the whole body to change the way your immune system works. It is a human monoclonal antibody—a type of antibody created in a laboratory.
Learn About Biologics and Their Uses
Once injected and absorbed into the bloodstream, it binds to a specific docking site that ultimately blocks the action of two messenger proteins (interleukin-4 and interleukin-13). These proteins are known to play a major role in the formation of eczema patches.
Effects of Dupixent (dupilumab)
Research has revealed not only a reduction in the body surface area and severity of eczema patches but also a significant reduction in scratching, which can be extremely debilitating for people with atopic dermatitis. In addition, in two 16-week phase three trials, the medication was found to reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression and improve quality of life.
Are There Any Adverse Effects to Note?
The injectable may cause skin irritation at the site of injection. Although rare, it can also cause a serious allergic reaction, as well as eye problems like dry eye, eye scratching, pink eye (called conjunctivitis), eyelid inflammation (called blepharitis), or inflammation of the cornea (called keratitis). Sores on or around the lips and throughout the mouth (called oral herpes) have also been reported.
It's important to contact your doctor right away if you experience vision problems, eye pain, or severe eye irritation.
It's also important to stop administering the medication and seek medical attention if you experience symptoms of an allergic reaction like hives, skin rash with or without a fever, swollen lymph nodes, joint pain, scratching, or a general ill feeling. Of course, what is mentioned above are not all the potential side effects a person may experience, so be sure to contact your doctor with any problems or worries.
Finally, some people develop antibodies to the drug, which occurs when the body produces a protein to neutralize or inhibit its biological effect. This may be suspected if a person stops responding to the medication, and can be confirmed with a blood test.
What Should I Tell My Doctor?
Talk to your doctor about all of your health conditions, especially if you have eye problems, a parasitic infection, or asthma. Also, be sure to tell your doctor whether you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or scheduled to receive any vaccinations. Due to the effects on a person's immune system, it is advised that no one taking this medication receive any live vaccinations (e.g., the nasal spray flu vaccine or zoster vaccine).
It's also important to share with your doctor all your medications, including any over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, or supplements.
The big picture here is to be prepared when visiting your allergist. By being thorough and sharing all your medical history with your doctor, she can determine if this is the right treatment for you.
A Word From Verywell
Severe atopic dermatitis can cause extensive eczema patches on the body, which can be both physically and mentally draining. Dupixent (dupilumab) provides an option for those adults who have moderate to severe disease but have not received the relief they deserve with conventional therapies like steroid creams and ointments. In addition, it appears to be safe, although the increased risk for eye problems needs to be teased out more.
On a final note, this medication is not for everyone, and at this time, it's really reserved for those who have no other options. Stay on board as research continues to evolve on injectable biologics for eczema.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you reach your 2019 goals.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
American Academy of Dermatology. Atopic Dermatitis: Who Gets And Causes. https://www.aad.org/public/diseases/eczema/atopic-dermatitis.
Beck LA et al. Dupilumab treatment in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. N Engl J Med. 2014 Jul 10;371(2):130-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1314768
Simpson EL et al. Two phase 3 trials of Dupilumab versus placebo in atopic dermatitis. N Engl J Med. 2016 Dec 15;375(24):2335-2348. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1610020
Spergel JM. (February 2015). Management of severe refractory atopic dermatitis (eczema). In: UpToDate, Dellavalle RP (Ed), UpToDate, Waltham, MA.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (March 2017). Full Prescribing Contents: Dupixent. https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2017/761055lbl.pdf
Continue Reading
Article
What Are the Symptoms and Treatments for Eczema?
Article
3 Natural Remedies for Eczema
Article
Using Desonide Cream for Eczema
Article
Scratching With Eczema an Lead to Lichen Simplex Chronicus
Article
How to Control Your Eczema When You Have It on the Face
Article
Rosacea, Psoriasis, or Eczema: Which Matches Your Symptoms?
Article
How Age Affects the Location of Eczema Rashes
Article
Can Probiotics Help With Eczema?
Article
Medications for Atopic Dermatitis
Article
What Does Eczema Look Like in Different Stages?
Article
How to Treat and Prevent Eczema
List
The Best Body Washes for Eczema
Article
Does Sun Exposure Help Eczema?
Article
How Atopic Dermatitis Can Be Treated
Article
How to Identify Eczema in Children
Article
What You Should Know About Nummular Eczema
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more