Fitness of Body Soul & Mind Solution To Bronchial Asthma | Fitness of Body Soul and Mind
My Account
My Purchases
Checkout
Log In
Facebook
Google puls
Rss
paid
twiter
d 0 Items - $0.00
No Item found on your cart::
Toggle navigation
Home
What is yoga
Natural Healing
Solution To Acidity
Solution To Arthritis
Solution To Diabetes
Solution To Stress
Solution To Obesity
Solution To Sinusitis
Solution To Constipation
Health And Fitness
Facts about juicing
Blog
Astrology
Indian Vedic Astrology
Greeks – fundamental astrology
Planets, Moon, Mercury
Zodiac signs
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Virgo
Libra
Capricorn
Aquarius
Pisces
Store
Bronchial Asthma
Our Video Program includes :
3 Asana (Exercise Poses)
3 Breathing exercises
2 Meditation technique with full practice instructions
Diet guidelines.
Bronchial Asthma
$5.00
Our Video Program includes :
3 Asana (Exercise Poses)
3 Breathing exercises
2 Meditation technique with full practice instructions
Diet guidelines.
Add to cart
Category: Uncategorized
Description
Product Description
Bronchial Asthma
Asthma is characterized by paroxysmal and reversible obstruction of the airways. It is increasingly understood as an inflammatory condition combined with bronchial hyper-responsiveness. Acute asthma involves:
Bronchospasm (smooth muscle spasm narrowing airways).
Excessive production of secretions (plugging airways).
Asthma is a chronic lung condition that causes difficulty in breathing. The bronchial tubes or air passages of the lung get inflamed as a result the surrounding muscles tighten up and mucous produce narrowing the airways further. If asthma is not treated properly, it can suddenly flair up and become serious.
Symptoms:
Difficulty in breathing.
Coughing and breathing with a wheezing sound.
Difficulty in sleeping soundly.
Pain in the chest.
Shortness of breath.
Tightness in chest area.
Causes:
Allergy to food, perfumes,seasonal pollen in the air,drugs etc. The vary from person to person. Dust allergies are common. A combination of these may trigger off bronchial asthma. Non allergic factors are stress,tension, air pollution and infection. In some cases abnormal body chemistry involving bodies enzymes or defect in muscular action within the lungs can trigger asthma. Hereditary factor – where one or both parents suffer from asthma the children are at high risk.
Remedy:
So far we are not aware of complete remedy of bronchial asthma through prescription medicines, though there are medicines to give temporary relief during extreme conditions. Tests carried out at yoga therapy centers around the world show remarkable results in bringing under control and in some cases even curing bronchial asthma. Though it is a gradual process, yoga-meditation, particularly the breathing exercises, if done regularly produce remarkable results.
More and more doctors and medical practitioners are coming to acknowledge the role of yoga meditation in curing or managing bronchial asthma. It is an established fact that mind plays an important role in any physical condition, thus it is very obvious and a proven fact that by calming the mind half the battle is won in preventing and curing bronchial asthma.
Regular practice of yoga postures, pranayama or breathing exercises and meditation, calms down and gives strength to the body and mind. Most sufferers feel great relief and are able to manage their affliction, as their fear and anxieties virtually disappear.
Yoga has a stabilizing effect in body’s immune system. It has been proved that regular practice of yoga meditation increases tolerance to infection and improves the respiratory, digestive and blood circulatory system. After a certain period the patient is able to manage his bronchial asthma better and feels that he is on the way to complete recovery.
Yoga meditation, by reducing anxiety gives the patient access to their own internal experience and helps them to ascertain the exact cause of the ailment and what causes the condition to worsen, which comes more and more through self awareness. Yoga meditation not only increases self awareness, it regulates breathing patterns and improves lung function.
The quality and variety of food intake has a direct effect on the disease. Healthy yoga diet consisting of, fresh organic fruits and vegetables, nuts and seeds, unsaturated fat and bio yogurts should constitute a major part of the diet. Least quantity of carbohydrate and animal protein and very little sugar and salt should be consumed by bronchial asthma sufferers.
Thus, to sum up, eat pure and simple food, do gentle yoga postures, meditation and breathing exercises (Preventive Yoga) for a minimum 20 minutes every day and do positive thinking about gradual improvement of your health and give up worrying. There is no reason why your affliction should not become manageable and eventually be cured.
Related Products
Constipation
$5.00 Add to cart
Solution to Diabetes
$5.00 Add to cart
Solution to Sprain
$5.00 Add to cart
Solution to Sinusitis
$5.00 Add to cart
ads
We can help you with :
YOGA MEDITATION & PRANAYAMA CHAKRA YOGA WITH MANTRAS
YOGA FOR BEGINNERS
SOLUTION TO ARTHRITIS
SOLUTION TO DIABETES
SOLUTION TO STRESS
SOLUTION TO FATLOSS
Learn with us :
Solution To Arthiritis
Solution To Diabetes
Solution To Fatloss
Solution To Acidity
Solution To Stress
Privacy
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Loading...
Loading...