#DoesItWorkSummary: Selenium for Prevention of Cancer - International Natural Product Sciences Taskforce (INPST)
Skip to content
International Natural Product Sciences Taskforce (INPST)
The power of science synergy
Menu
About
News
Publications
Projects
Partners
Gallery
Conferences
Funding
Education
Jobs
Resources
Collaborations
Awards
Blog
Editions
Press
Aggregator
Books
Membership
Contact
#DoesItWorkSummary: Selenium for Prevention of Cancer
By Atanas G. Atanasov
Background: This #DoesItWorkSummary is based on the findings of a Cochrane Systematic Review published in January 2018 [1]. Selenium is an element that is normally taken with food and is essential for healthy metabolism in small amounts (belonging in this way to the group of micronutrients). It is found in a variety of foods from animal and plant origin, with Brazil nuts and seafood being especially rich sources [2]. Although being an important micronutrient, at higher amounts selenium has toxic action [3], making the dose of intake very important for beneficial health effects (optimally, the intake should be high enough to prevent deficiency, but not so high that it would result in toxicity). There have been some indications that selenium might act as cancer-preventive agent, possibly through antioxidant effects mediated by proteins that need selenium for their functions (selenoproteins) [4]. To get an overview of scientifically documented effectiveness of selenium in preventing cancer, evaluation of the published scientific literature was done.
Findings: Analyzed were 10 randomized controlled trials (representing high-quality evidence) in which people were randomly assigned to receive selenium supplements or placebo, and 70 observational studies (representing low-quality evidence) in which people were followed over time to determine whether their selenium exposure status was associated with changed risk of cancer [1].
All of the 10 high‐quality randomized trials reported no effect of selenium on reducing cancer risk. Moreover, some of the high-quality trials unexpectedly indicated that selenium may increase risks of high‐grade prostate cancer, dermatitis, hair loss, and diabetes type 2.
The 70 observational studies (low-quality evidence) yielded overall inconsistent results. Nevertheless, when all data were pooled together lower incidence of cancer was observed in the people belonging to the highest category of selenium exposure compared with the lowest (but there was no dose-response relation supporting this observation).
Taken together, the currently existing scientific evidence does not support that selenium supplementation has cancer-preventive effect.
Future research might be needed to specifically explore if selenium may affect the risk of cancer in individuals with specific genetic backgrounds or specific nutritional status, and to evaluate if different chemical forms of selenium may differently affect cancer risk.
References
1 Vinceti, M., Filippini, T., Del Giovane, C., Dennert, G., Zwahlen, M., Brinkman, M., Zeegers, M.P., Horneber, M., D’Amico, R. and Crespi, C.M. (2018) Selenium for Preventing Cancer. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD005195.pub4.
2 Barclay, M.N.I., MacPherson, A. and Dixon, J. (1995) Selenium Content of a Range of UK Foods. Journal of Food Composition and Analysis, Academic Press, 8, 307–318. https://doi.org/10.1006/JFCA.1995.1025.
3 Tinggi, U. (2003) Essentiality and Toxicity of Selenium and Its Status in Australia: A Review. Toxicology Letters, Elsevier, 137, 103–110. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0378-4274(02)00384-3.
4 Diwadkar-Navsariwala, V. and Diamond, A.M. (2004) The Link between Selenium and Chemoprevention: A Case for Selenoproteins. The Journal of Nutrition, Oxford University Press, 134, 2899–2902. https://doi.org/10.1093/jn/134.11.2899.
Keywords: #DoesItWorkSummary, selenium, systematic review, clinical trials, selenoproteins, prevention of cancer.
Tropical rainforest, Queensland, Australia. Photo by Dr. Rohan Davis.
Analytical equipment. Photo by Atanas G. Atanasov.
Hep-2 signal activated cells. Image by Dr. Vassilis Doucas.
Lagoon of the seven cities, a twin lake in the crater of a dormant volcano in the western part of the São Miguel island (Azores, Portugal). Photo by Dr. Ana Sanches Silva.
Saffron plants, Zapponeta (Foggia), South of Italy. Photo by Dr. Grazia D'Onofrio.
Substance library. Photo by Dr. Nikolay Tzvetkov.
Lichens of the Eastern Morocco, Oujda, Morocco. Photo by Dr. Khalid El Bairi ©.
Blood cells colored with fluorescence dye. Photo by Dr. Davide Barreca.
The Botanical Garden of Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, Austria. Photo by Atanas G. Atanasov.
Central Australian desert scene. Photo by Dr. Rohan Davis.
HEK293T cells. Photo by Atanas G. Atanasov.
Tropical rainforest, Queensland, Australia. Photo by Dr. Rohan Davis.
Australian ocean scene. Photo by Dr. Rohan Davis.
Laboratory equipment. Photo by Atanas G. Atanasov.
Rhododendron arboreum flower. Photo by Devesh Tewari.
The Valley of Flowers, Himalaya, India. Photo by Dr. Rajeshwari Singh.
Bryce Canyon, Utah, USA. Photo by Dr. Anupam Bishayee.
Euphorbia prolifera Buch. (Ham) Ex. Photo by Devesh Tewari.
Foothills of Himalaya, India. Photo by Devesh Tewari.
The Valley of Flowers, Himalaya, India. Photo by Dr. Rajeshwari Singh.
Eco-School Festival, Leiria-Portugal, Spring 2018
Polygonum maritimum (L.) (Polygonaceae)- Ourdania beach (Ain Temouchent- west Algeria)- taken by PhD. EL HACI Imad Abdelhamid
Join for free INPST as a member
The International Natural Product Sciences Taskforce (INPST) maintains up-to-date lists with conferences, grants and funding opportunities, jobs and open positions, and journal special issues with relevance for the area of phytochemistry and food chemistry, pharmacology, pharmacognosy research, and natural product science.
Apply for the INPST 2018 Science Communication Award (Gold: 2000 USD / Silver: 1000 USD / Bronze: 500 USD)
Leave a comment:
Name(required)
Email(required)
Website
Message
Submit
Subscribe to our mailing list
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Facebook
Twitter
RG
Proudly powered by WordPress