8 Home Remedies For Warts Removal Fast, Easily and Naturally
SKINNYFiTMoM
Menu
FITNESS
REMEDIES
FITNESS GEAR
WEIGHT LOSS
HEALTHY FOOD
BEAUTY
FASHION
MAKEUP
SKINCARE
YOGA
FITNESS
REMEDIES
FITNESS GEAR
WEIGHT LOSS
HEALTHY FOOD
BEAUTY
FASHION
MAKEUP
SKINCARE
YOGA
Home
BEAUTY
8 Home Remedies For Warts Removal Fast, Easily and Naturally
BEAUTY, REMEDIES
8 Home Remedies For Warts Removal Fast, Easily and Naturally
SkInnyMom 9 months ago No Comments
Prev Article	Next Article
Home Remedies For Warts Removal- Warts are harmless growths on the skin, and they are as a result of viruses. They are as a result of Human Papilloma Virus which is also known as (HPV). The HPV infects the top layer of the skin, thereby making the skin overgrow, which becomes a wart.
Often, you can contact warts if you have a broken or damaged skin and you come in contact with someone who has it. Another means through which you can get the virus is if you share razors, towels, and things that are supposed to be personal to you. Warts can grow as one or in a cluster.
Children are at more risk of developing warts because they have a less powerful immune system. However, anyone can develop warts, and they tend to heal off on their own. In some cases, they are hard to deal with and can stay longer than usual.
Types Of Warts And Where They Grow On The Body
Common Warts: As the name implies, these are the most common type of warts, and they often develop on the hand. They are dome-shaped, rough and has a color of gray or brown.
Flat Warts: Flat Warts are small and flat-topped. They are usually brown, pink or light yellow colored, and they can grow on the arms, face, and legs.
Plantar Warts: They make walking a difficult thing to do because they grow on the soles of the feet and they are hard, thick, and dark.
Filiform Warts: These type of wars can grow on the face. They usually develop around the mouth, chin, or nose. Filiform warts have the same color with the skin, but they have thread-like growths attached to them.
Periungual Warts: These type of warts often grows under or around the toenails and fingernails.
The above classification will help you to know the type of warts you have. This article will highlight the most effective home remedies for warts removal that you can try and definitely will get results.
How to Remove Skin Tags Fast: 8 Home Remedies That Really Work
7 Most Powerful Antibacterial Essential Oils & How To Use Them
13 Magical Homemade Psoriasis Treatment Never Revealed Before
How To Get Rid Of Acne + 11 Home Remedies For Pimples That Work Fast
5 Home Remedies For Warts Removal: Get Rid Of Warts Fast
How to Prevent Warts
Strengthen your immune system with diet & exercise, cut back or stop smoking & drinking alcohol
Get enough Vitamin A, Vitamin B, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, L-Lysine, Potassium, Selenium & Zinc in your diet.
Do not pick at your warts because this can cause the virus causing warts to spread making you get more warts.
Preventing Genital Warts
Using a condom during sexual intercourse can reduce your risk of contracting genital warts.
You can get vaccinated against HPV, which is responsible for genital warts and cervical cancer. The vaccine can be administered up to 26 years of age.
Avoid skin-to-skin contact with someone infected with HPV.
Do not share towels or bedsheets with someone infected with HPV.
How To Remove Warts Naturally
1. Baking Soda
Baking soda is one of the powerful home remedies for warts removal. All thanks to its antiseptic and strong anti-inflammatory properties that can help to deal with warts causing viruses.
You Need:
A teaspoon of white vinegar
One tablespoon of baking soda
Directions:
Mix one teaspoon of white vinegar and baking soda to make a thick paste. Apply the paste where you have warts two times daily- morning and night.
You can, however, replace the white vinegar with castor oil.
Mix castor oil and baking soda to make a paste.
Apply the paste on warts and cover the place with a bandage.
Leave it on overnight and remove the following morning. Do this often till the warts are gone.
2. Garlic
Garlic contains a high amount of antifungal, antibacterial and antiviral properties that help to fight viruses and infections. It helps in the treatment of most skin infections and can serve as a natural way to get rid of warts.
You Need:
Few cloves of garlic
Clean water
To Do:
Gently crush some garlic into a paste and mix the paste with little water.
Apply the paste to the wart and roll a bandage on the area.
Leave on for 20 minutes and wash off with water.
Repeat this treatment two times daily for one week.
Garlic has a caustic property that will dry up warts and make it fall off. Although bigger warts may take longer to heal, it will improve with a continuous application.
3. Basil
Basil has been proven to be another fast and efficient home remedies for warts removal. It contains lots of antiviral properties that can help combat the wart-causing virus. Basil will speed up the healing process from warts infection when used as a treatment.
You Will Need:
1/4 cup fresh basil leaves
A bandage or a clean cloth
Mortar and pestle or anything that can crush the leaves
Directions
Crush the 1/4 cup of fresh basil leaves until it gets juicy.
Apply on the wart and cover with a bandage or a clean cloth.
Repeat the process daily for about one to two weeks or until the warts are gone.
4. Castor Oil
Pure cold-pressed castor oil can be used to treat many skin infections, and warts is not an exception. Ricinoleic acid, which is the main component of castor oil contains antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. Castor oil as one of the home remedies for warts removal works best on flat and small warts at the back of the hands and the face.
Castor oil needs to be diluted with a carrier oil like almond or olive oil before applying it on the genital area.
You Need:
Pure cold-pressed castor oil
Cotton balls
A bandage or a clean cloth
Pumice stone
Directions
Apply castor oil on the affected areas needed throughout the day. Be generous with your application
For night treatment, soak the cotton ball in castor oil, apply it on the wart and tie a bandage on it.
Wash off in the morning with warm water for few minutes, use the pumice stone to scrub off the dead skin.
Repeat this process for a few days until warts become dark and finally falls off.
5. Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree oil is a natural treatment for warts because it contains antiviral properties. However, you may need to dilute it with aloe vera gel before applying it to the problem areas because it can irritate the skin.
To Do:
Apply the diluted tea tree oil to the affected area, many times throughout the day. You can do this at night as well.
Repeat 3 to 5 times per day for 1 to 2 weeks to get rid of warts or till you see changes in the problem areas.
6. Immune Boosting Herbs
Take immune boosting herbs like Astragalus, Bayberry, Echinacea, Goldenseal, Schizandra and/or Elderberry to prevent and get rid of warts.
7. Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider vinegar (ACV) may have at least as many uses as duct tape and is found in countless home remedies, including getting rid of warts. Although it’s simple, many people have discovered that it really works.
It doesn’t actually kill the virus, but its high acidity is said to attack the flesh that makes up the wart, killing it so that it will naturally peel away from the skin. This also takes the virus along with it, which helps to prevent a recurrence.
Treatment
Soak a cotton ball or pad in apple cider vinegar and place it over the wart. It is normal to experience a slight stinging or burning sensation the first time you apply it.
Secure the cotton ball or pad in place with a bandage.
Leave it on overnight. If you do not want to leave it on overnight, apply a soaked cotton ball for 10 to 15 minutes once every hour throughout the day.
The next morning, remove it and rinse the area with water.
You can make a foot bath soaking your feet in the apple cider vinegar to quickly get rid of that stubborn plantar warts or warts on your feet.
Repeat daily for 1 to 2 weeks. You may notice positive results within 4 or 5 days of starting with the remedy.
8. Grey Duct Tape
The duct tape method, or tape occlusion, sounds weird, but it works! It’s actually a time-honored, and cheap technique for removing those unsightly warts.
To use duct tape to get rid of warts,
Keep your warts covered up for at least 6 days, remove the duct tape & soak the wart in water.
Then file it down with a nail file, emery board or pumice stone and leave whatever is left of the wart uncovered for 1-to-2 days.
Repeat this process until the wart is gone.
Tip: Put Salicylic Acid on the wart before you put duct tape over the wart for extra wart killing power!
NOTE: To further keep yourself free from warts, boost your immune system. Since warts are caused by a virus, it is advisable to increase the body’s ability to fight the infection. This you can do by having enough rest, eating good food and exercising daily.
As stated above, You can also use astralagus, olive leaf, zinc, turmeric, cat’s claw, and elderberry to boost your body’s immunity against the virus.
Another thing is that you should take your hygiene serious.
As mentioned earlier, you can get the virus by sharing personal care items like towels and the likes. You can also pass it to other parts of your body through touch.
If you touch where you have warts, and you touch other parts of your body with the same hand, you may get the virus on other parts. If you do this, warts will start growing after some days
Do not scratch the wart, as it can spread and cause more warts.
Eat healthy foods to strengthen your body’s natural defense to fight the virus.
Drinking 2 to 3 cups of herbal teas like lemongrass, chamomile and green tea daily can also strengthen your immune system against HPV.
If none of the remedies work, you can consult your doctor for cryotherapy. It involves freezing warts with liquid nitrogen.
Conclusion
Have you ever dealt with warts? Which home remedy or remedies did you use to get rid of warts?
References
www.annmariegianni.com
www.top10homeremedies.com
everydayroots.com
This post may contain affiliate links. Please read my full disclosure and disclaimer.
Facebook
Prev Article	Next Article
About The Author
SkInnyMom
More from this Author
SkinnyFitMom is a Lifestyle Site with focus on health + remedies and fitness where Moms can learn how to be Skinny, Fitter and Trimmer On Healthy Living
Add Comment
Cancel reply
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Recent Posts
13 Effective Home Remedies For Common Cold And Flu That Works
Top 6 Everyday Yoga Poses For Beginners With Healthy Living Benefits
7 Best Exercises To Get Rid of Love Handles, Muffin Top, and Strengthen Oblique Muscles
8 Best exercises to improve love life – Best Workouts to Improve Performance
12 Full Body Strength Training Workouts – Increase Stamina and Endurance
Stay Updated
Popular This Week!
13 Effective Home Remedies For Common Cold …
9 Best Home Remedies To Get Rid …
10 Best Exercises for Smaller Waist, Bigger …
10 Essential Oils That Can Seriously Relieve …
Related Posts
7 Sure Signs That Your Himalayan Salt …
DIY Fruit Infused Water Recipes for Weight …
8 Simple Exercises to Lift Sagging Breasts …
How to Remove Skin Tags Fast: 8 …
How to Get Rid of Knee Pain …
Pages
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy policy
SKINNYFiTMoM Copyright © 2019. SkinnyFitMom is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.
error: Content is protected !!
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.Ok