Male pattern baldness
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Home
View Plans
Individual & Family Plans
Senior Health Plan
Employer Group Plans
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Members
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Employers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Providers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Brokers
Wellness
Search
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Website Search
Health Encyclopedia
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Networks & Affiliations
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Contact Us
Take Charge
Your Symptoms
Self Care
In-Depth Reports
Diseases & Conditions
Surgeries & Procedures
Injuries
Tests
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
Multimedia Encyclopedia
Tobacco Cessation
Calculators
Smoking Cessation
Body Mass Index Calculator
Calorie Burner Counter Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Desirable Body Weight Calculator
Nutritional Needs Calculator
Waist to Hip Calculator
Risky Drinking
Wellness Tools
Stress and Anxiety
Diet & Nutrition
Emotional Health
Fitness
Sleep Health
Work & Life Balance
Career Burnout
Allergy
Cancer Prevention Guide
Depression
Diabetes
Heart Attack & Disease Risk
Menopause
Pain
Stroke Risk
Additional Resources
Wellness Promotions
Symptom Checker
Preventive Health Guidelines
Important Health Topics
Browse A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
0-9
Print-Friendly
Bookmarks
Male pattern baldness
Alopecia in men; Baldness - male; Hair loss in men; Androgenetic alopecia
Male pattern baldness is the most common type of hair loss in men.
Causes
Male pattern baldness is related to your genes and male sex hormones. It usually follows a pattern of receding hairline and hair thinning on the crown.
Each strand of hair sits in a tiny hole (cavity) in the skin called a follicle. Generally, baldness occurs when the hair follicle shrinks over time, resulting in shorter and finer hair. Eventually, the follicle does not grow new hair. The follicles remain alive, which suggests that it is still possible to grow new hair.
Symptoms
The typical pattern of male baldness begins at the hairline. The hairline gradually moves backward (recedes) and forms an "M" shape. Eventually the hair becomes finer, shorter, and thinner, and creates a U-shaped (or horseshoe) pattern of hair around the sides of the head.
Exams and Tests
Classic male pattern baldness is usually diagnosed based on the appearance and pattern of the hair loss.
Hair loss may be due to other conditions. This may be true if hair loss occurs in patches, you shed a lot of hair, your hair breaks, or you have hair loss along with redness, scaling, pus, or pain.
Scaling
Scales are a visible peeling or flaking of outer skin layers. These layers are called the stratum corneum.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
A skin biopsy, blood tests, or other procedures may be needed to diagnose other disorders that cause hair loss.
Skin biopsy
A skin lesion biopsy is when a small amount of skin is removed so it can be examined. The skin is tested to look for skin conditions or diseases. A...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Hair analysis is not accurate for diagnosing hair loss due to nutritional or similar disorders. But it may reveal substances such as arsenic or lead.
Treatment
Treatment is not necessary if you are comfortable with your appearance. Hair weaving, hairpieces, or change of hairstyle may disguise the hair loss. This is usually the least expensive and safest approach for male baldness.
Medicines that treat male pattern baldness include:
Minoxidil (Rogaine), a solution that is applied directly to the scalp to stimulate the hair follicles. It slows hair loss for many men, and some men grow new hair. Hair loss returns when you stop using this medicine.
Finasteride (Propecia, Proscar), a pill that interferes with the production of a highly active form of testosterone that is linked to baldness. It slows hair loss. It works slightly better than minoxidil. Hair loss returns when you stop using this medicine.
Dutasteride is similar to finasteride, but may be more effective.
Hair transplants consist of removing tiny plugs of hair from areas where the hair is continuing to grow and placing them in areas that are balding. This can cause minor scarring and possibly, infection. The procedure usually requires multiple sessions and may be expensive.
Suturing hair pieces to the scalp is not recommended. It can result in scars, infections, and abscess of the scalp. The use of hair implants made of artificial fibers was banned by the FDA because of the high rate of infection.
Abscess
An abscess is a collection of pus in any part of the body. In most cases, the area around an abscess is swollen and inflamed.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Outlook (Prognosis)
Male pattern baldness does not indicate a medical disorder, but it may affect self-esteem or cause anxiety. The hair loss is usually permanent.
When to Contact a Medical Professional
Call your health care provider if:
Your hair loss occurs in an atypical pattern, including rapid hair loss, widespread shedding, hair loss in patches, or hair breakage.
Your hair loss occurs with itching, skin irritation, redness, scaling, pain, or other symptoms.
Your hair loss begins after starting a medicine.
You want to treat your hair loss.
Open References
References
Fisher J. Hair restoration. In: Neligan PC, ed. Plastic Surgery. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 23.
Habif TP. Hair diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.
Unger WP, Unger RH, Wesley CK. Androgenetic alopecia. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson I, eds. Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.
BACK TO TOP
All
Video
Images
Tog
Male pattern baldness - illustration
Male pattern baldness is a sex-linked characteristic that is passed from mother to child. A man can more accurately predict his chances of developing male pattern baldness by observing his mother's father than by looking at his own father.
Male pattern baldn...
Illustration
Hair follicle - illustration
Each hair sits in a cavity in the skin called a follicle. Over time the follicle can shrink causing the hair to become shorter and finer. Ordinarily, the hair should grow back but in men who are balding the very small follicle ceases to grow any hair. The cause of baldness is not well understood, but is thought to be related to the genes and male sex hormones of the individual.
Hair follicle
Illustration
Male pattern baldness - illustration
Male pattern baldness is a sex-linked characteristic that is passed from mother to child. A man can more accurately predict his chances of developing male pattern baldness by observing his mother's father than by looking at his own father.
Male pattern baldn...
Illustration
Hair follicle - illustration
Each hair sits in a cavity in the skin called a follicle. Over time the follicle can shrink causing the hair to become shorter and finer. Ordinarily, the hair should grow back but in men who are balding the very small follicle ceases to grow any hair. The cause of baldness is not well understood, but is thought to be related to the genes and male sex hormones of the individual.
Hair follicle
Illustration
Related Information
Review Date: 5/2/2017
Reviewed By: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., a business unit of Ebix, Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Fire Fox and Google Chrome browser.
Privacy & Compliance
Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (Consumer Information Disclosure)
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act)
Report Suspected Health Care Fraud, Waste or Abuse
Compliance Program and Code of Excellence
Nondiscrimination Statement
Careers
When you choose CommunityCare as your employer, you join a staff of highly motivated individuals who make CommunityCare Oklahoma's best choice for healthcare.
CommunityCare is just as dedicated to our employees as we are to our customers and our business. We make it a priority to provide our staff with all the tools necessary to have a long, fruitful career with our company.
Find out more
Newsroom Activity
Seasonal Triggers for Individuals With COPD
4/19/2019
Do You Take Diabetes Medicine?
3 months ago
Care Corner: You Asked, We Answer
3 months ago
Visit the Newsroom
Home
Contact Us
Find Health Insurance
Health & Wellness
Employee Assistance Program
Site Map
Language Assistance
Español
Tiếng Việt
繁體中文
한국어
Deutsch
العربية
Hmoob
Tagalog
Français
ພາສາລາວ
ภาษาไทย
اُردُو
tsalagi gawonihisdi
فارسی
© 2019 CommunityCare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
tul-pubweb-2
CommunityCare is proudly owned by our region's two premier health systems. Other physicians and providers are available in our network.