Awareness Archives - Commonwealth Dermatology, Richmond, VA
804.282.0831
7001 Forest Ave, Ste 400, Richmond, VA 23230
About
Mission & Values
Insurance
Forms
Job Openings
Providers
Provider Biographies
Services
Pediatrics Dermatology
Functional Medicine
Aesthetics
Aesthetics Services
Aesthetics Providers
Skincare Products
Lasers
News
Contact
Specials
PORTAL
home > Awareness > Latest News > Skin Cancer
May Is Skin Cancer Awareness Month
May 1, 2017 By comderm2016
The physicians at Commonwealth Dermatology encourage everyone to make both self-skin exams and regular skin exam’s with a board certified Dermatologist a part of their health care routine.
Melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer. It is very curable when caught early.
Click for larger image.
Monthly self-skin exams: is an important factor in early discovery of these lesions. Getting to know your own skin, is key to noticing changes early.
To learn more about how to do a Self Skin Exam visit our post here: http://ow.ly/10EMBU
Baseline Skin Exam with a Dermatologist: It is recommended that everyone see a dermatologist to have a baseline skin exam. At this exam, they will look over all your spots, freckles, and moles with you. They will assure you which ones are normal and begin a treatment plan on any that may be of concern.
To learn more about what is involved in a full Skin Exam with your physician we have written a great article here: http://ow.ly/10EN7c
To schedule a skin exam, please call our office at 804-440-SKIN (7546).
Filed Under: Awareness, Latest News, Skin Cancer Tagged With: skin cancer
When Cancer Spreads to Your Skin (Cutaneous Metastasis)
October 19, 2015 By Comderm
The skin can tell us a lot about what is going on within the body. Growths and rashes on the skin can also lead us to look for other underlying disorders including malignancy or cancer.
Cutaneous metastasis is when cells from an internal cancer travel by way of the blood stream or the lymphatic system to a location on the skin. It usually occurs late in the disease process. Metastasis can occur from a skin cancer such as melanoma and from other internal primary cancers such as breast or lung cancer.
Other than melanoma, breast cancer is the most common cancer to metastasize to the skin (30%), followed by lung cancer in men, colon cancer, melanoma, oral cancer in men and ovarian cancer.
Annual skin exams are important not only for detecting skin cancer, but to aid in revealing unidentified disorders and risks, and can also be used to monitor disease progression including cancers, cutaneous and internal.
The following table was taken from DermNet NZ, and depicts features of skin metastasis based on cancer origin:
Organ of cancer origin
Features of skin metastasis
Breast
Most common sites of skin metastasis are the chest and abdomen
Less common sites include scalp, neck, upper extremities and back
Some patients may develop a firm scar-like area in the skin. If this occurs on the scalp, hair may be lost (alopecia neoplastica)
Lesions may appear as inflammatory plaques with a clear cut raised margin (carcinoma erysipeloides)
Lung
Most common sites are the chest, abdomen and back
Reddish firm nodules suddenly appear in the skin
Nodules tend to follow the intercostal vessels (blood vessels along the ribs) when they appear on the chest
Melanoma
In men, skin metastasis occurs on the chest, extremities and back
In women, metastasis to the lower extremities is common
Colon and stomach
Common sites are the abdomen and the pelvis
A nodule appearing at the umbilicus is called a Sister Mary Joseph nodule and is a sign of extensive colorectal cancer
October is breast cancer awareness month.
Statistics:
· 1 in 8 US women will develop invasive breast cancer in the course of one’s life.
· In 2015, the estimated numbers of new cases of invasive breast cancer in women is 231,840; the number of new cases of non-invasive breast cancer is 60,290.
· A man’s lifetime risk of breast cancer is 1 in 1,000.
· In 2015, the estimated numbers of new cases of invasive breast cancer in men is 2,350.
Filed Under: Awareness, Latest News, Skin Cancer
Don’t Fry Day
May 21, 2015 By Comderm
To close out the month long Skin Cancer Awareness month, this Friday is Don’t Fry Day. It is a day to remind everyone to be careful in the sun, and to avoid getting that first sunburn of the season!
A 27 year old woman who is trying to share her story of skin cancer and the dangers of tanning, took photographs of herself going through her skin cancer treatments. Here is a link to see just what may happen if you get a diagnosis of skin cancer.
http://cnn.it/1AUSg2H
As you enjoy your holiday weekend, we encourage you to remember to use sun protection as well as avoid tanning. Use sunless tanning products if you really want a tanned appearance instead. Stay safe in the sun, and Don’t Fry!
Save
Filed Under: Awareness, Cosmetic Products, Latest News, Sun Damage & Sun Protection
Rockin’ the Red for Heart Awareness Month!
February 24, 2015 By Comderm
Here at Commonwealth Dermatology, we celebrated Go Red for Women’s Heart Health on Feb. 6th. We had fun showing off our flashes of red in support of increasing the awareness of heart disease and its symptoms.
Come and meet some of our staff as they show off their red:
Some of our nurses had fun with their red shoes and crazy socks!
Beth and Jennifer, two of our nurses who work over on side “B with our nurse practitioners and therapy treatments. Looking good girls!
Gabby and Jennifer are long time nursing team members. Our patients and staff rely on their knowledge and skills every day!
From our Billing and Front Desk Staff: Carolyn, Donna, Pam, Maribel, Latrice and Heather. These lovely ladies keep things running smoothly and keep the positive energy flowing! You may not see all of them when you come for a visit, but they sure work hard!
Jamie (on the left) is one of our new staff members. She’ll be glad to help you check out at the end of your appointment. Amber is one of our nurses who works with Dr. Agawal. His team wouldn’t be complete without her!
Rolanda (or “RO” as we call her) is Dr. Royster’s nurse. Heather answers phones and helps out anywhere we need her. Their big smiles light up the office!
Amber and Gabby stopping for a moment at the end of their day, and still smiling!
Filed Under: Awareness, Latest News
Head Lice
September 8, 2014 By Comderm
With the school year beginning in August or September, it’s no mystery why September has been deemed Head Lice Awareness Month. Head lice are most common in preschool and elementary school age children and their household members and caretakers.
Head lice causes 6 million to12 million infestations (some references report higher occurrences in school age children) each year in the United States in children 3 to 11 years old.
Head lice are insects found on the hair, eyebrows, and eyelashes of people. They have claws that aid them in grasping onto hair. These insects need to feed on human blood several times a day, so they are usually found close to the scalp.
Head lice crawl, they do not hop or fly, and are transmitted from person to person.
3 LIFE STAGES OF LICE:
Egg/Nit. Nits are the eggs laid by the adult female louse on the base of the hair close to the scalp. These are firmly attached to the hair and are oval shaped, white or yellowish, and are very hard to see; sometimes they look like dandruff. These hatch in 8-9 days.
Nymph. The egg hatches into an immature louse, or nymph. It looks like an adult louse, but smaller. It must feed on human blood (it will not infest or feed on household pets) and if fed, will mature into an adult louse in 9-12 days.
Adult. The full-grown adult louse is the size of a sesame seed, has 6 legs and is gray or white in color. In order to survive, it must feed on human blood. It can live up to 30 days on a person’s scalp, but if it falls off, it will die within 1-2 days. Females are larger than males and are capable of laying 6 eggs a day.
WAYS TO GET HEAD LICE:
Common: Direct contact with hair of infested person- this type of contact is common at school, home, slumber parties, sports, camp, playgrounds, etc.
Less Common: Through infested items used by infested person- Transmission can occur when:
Sharing items such as clothing, hats, scarves, and coats
Using infested hair care items such as combs, brushes, hair ties, and ribbons
Coming in contact with infested articles such as sharing a towel or lying on a bed, couch, pillow, carpet, or stuffed animal.
Having head lice does not mean someone is not a clean person or that you are a bad parent. Anyone with hair can get lice.
HEALTH RISKS:
Head lice are not known to transmit disease; however, anyone can get secondary skin infection from scratching. Some people may experience intense itching due to an allergic reaction to the bites and some may experience sleep loss due to itching.
HOW DO YOU KNOW IF YOUR CHILD HAS HEAD LICE?
The most common symptom of head lice is itching, however, not everyone with lice gets itchy, and there are many other reasons for an itchy head.
Nits or lice are found on examination of the scalp or hairs (you can do this at home or have your child’s provider examine if uncertain)
PREVENTION MEASURES:
Maintain personal space. Avoiding head-to-head contact is the best prevention
Having a shorter hairstyle may be helpful
Do not share clothing, hats, scarves, coats, hoodies, ribbons or barrettes
Do not share combs, brushes or towels
Check hair regularly for nits or lice. Some recommend running a nit comb through your child’s hair twice a week. You can find these at any drugstore.
Avoid areas such as sofas, beds, and stuffed animals recently in contact with infested persons
Using hot water, wash and dry all recently worn items from infested persons such as clothing, hats, bedding and towels. Items that can’t be washed can be dry cleaned or sealed in a plastic bag and stored for 2 weeks
Wash all hair care items such as combs, brushes, clips, and headbands in hot water
Vacuum the floor, carpet, and furniture where an infested person sat or laid
TREATMENT:
There are many over-the-counter treatments for lice and repeated treatments are common since eggs continue to hatch
A good nit comb is your best defense as it aids in removing the eggs that are attached (in other words glued) to the hair shaft. Removal of nits prevents hatching and more adult lice that lay more eggs.
See your provider if you are unable to get rid of lice. A prescription medication may be needed
Also, see above care for cleaning clothing, bedding, hair care items, and the environment. Lice need to be removed from the environment to prevent re-infestation.
If your child or other close contact is diagnosed with lice, remember to check yourself!
Filed Under: Awareness, Hair, Latest News, Lice, Pediatric Dermatology, Scalp Issues
Tick Bite Awareness
July 17, 2014 By Comderm
According to the Virginia Department of Health, the tick is one of the most common insects to transmit vector-borne diseases in Virginia. Vector-borne means that the disease was spread through the blood, usually by insects, such as mosquitoes, fleas and ticks.
The Tick
Ticks go through 4 life stages: 1) egg, 2) six-legged larva, 3) eight-legged nymph, and adult. Except for the egg stage, ticks need to eat blood at every life stage to survive. It may take several years to complete a life cycle, and many ticks die because they cannot find a host for their next blood meal.
To transmit infection, ticks must feed on an infected host such as a rodent, bird, other animal or human. Ticks find their host by sensing breath and body movement, body heat, moisture and vibration. Ticks typically lie on low vegetation or on ground/leaf litter waiting for a host to climb onto. They are seen in wooded areas, forest edges, and tree shaded areas. They can grab onto skin or clothing as you brush against foliage or they can attach to your shoes and crawl upward. Depending on the tick, preparation to begin feeding can take from minutes to a couple hours. The tick grabs hold of the host, cuts into the surface and inserts a feeding tube. The feeding tube may have barbs and the tick secretes a cement-like substance to stay firmly attached to the host. Through feeding and releasing saliva, the tick can pick up any infectious germ. The tick will slowly feed for days before dropping off and preparing for the next life stage. The infectious germ has to multiply inside the tick before it can be transmitted. During the next feed, any infection can be transmitted to another animal or human.
There are many varieties of ticks in our state; however, the most common ticks that bite in Virginia are the lone star rick, the American dog tick, and the blacklegged tick.
Of the tick transmitted illnesses that have been reported in Virginia, Lyme and Ehrlichiosis are the most common followed by Anaplasmosis and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. Tularemia and Babesiosis are not common in Virginia.
Tick-Borne Diseases in Virginia
Disease
Tick
Attachment Time to Transmit
Symptoms
Lyme disease Blacklegged Nymph and adult ticks 36 hours 1,307 cases reported in 2013 in VASymptoms can be seen as early as 3-7 days and can range from 3-30 days after bite
· Headache, fever, muscle aches, joint aches, swollen glands, fatigue
· 70-90% will develop the bull’s-eye rash at the site of the bite, 2 or more in. diameter
· Late stages:
o Weeks to months after onset: Joint and muscle aches and pains, neurologic issues, heart disease
o Months to years after onset: encephalopathy, cognitive disorders, chronic arthritis
Ehrlichiosis Lone star Nymph and adult ticks 24 hours 150 cases of ehrlichiosis/anaplasmosis in 2012 in VAMostly seen in adults, can affect childrenInitial symptoms can be seen in 5-10 days
· Sudden onset of fever. Headache, chills, muscle aches or pains, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mental confusion, and red eyes.
· Rash can occur in 30-60%–resembles rash of RMSF
· Severe symptoms: difficulty breathing, bleeding disorders, neurologic disorders
Seek treatment immediately, can be life-threatening
Anaplasmosis Blacklegged Mostly nymph ticks 24 hours 150 cases of ehrlichiosis/anaplasmosis in 2012 in VASame symptoms as Ehrlichiosis (above)
Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever American dog tick Adult ticks only 10-20 hours 460 cases in 2012 in VASymptoms can be seen in 2-9 days
· Fever, nausea, vomiting, muscle pain, severe headache, lack of appetite, abdominal pain
· 90% of people will get a rash
Red spotted rash to extremities (wrists, ankles, palm, soles, feet, then rest of body)
Seek treatment immediately, can be life-threatening
The most important thing you can do to prevent tick transmitted infections is to prevent tick bites.
Environment control:
· Avoid tick habitat areas.
· Avoid brushing up onto foliage. Walk in the middle of mowed trails
· Keep grass cut and underbrush thinned.
· Clear ground cover, leaf litter, eliminate wood piles, and any areas that small animals can nest
· Pesticide for yard
· Pest control for your pet (ask your veterinarian). Animals can get the same diseases as humans, however they cannot transmit these diseases to humans
Person control:
· It’s easier to see ticks if you wear white or light clothing
· Tuck pant legs into socks, and boots. Wear long sleeve shirts and tuck into pants.
· Insect repellant such as DEET, picaridin, or lemon-eucalyptus (follow directions). DEET
· Clothing repellant such as permethrin
· Tick checks: yourself, children and pets
· Remove, wash, and dry all clothing
Tick removal:
· Remove the tick as soon as possible. The longer a tick is attached, the longer it feeds resulting in a higher risk of disease transmission.
· Use tweezers to grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible, firmly, gently, and steadily pull upward until the tick releases its grip and can be removed.
· Avoid twisting and crushing the tick. Avoid Vaseline, nail polish, alcohol and a hot match. These methods risk getting more infectious material into the skin.
· You can save the tick for identification by putting it in a plastic bag or jar. You can freeze it or put it in alcohol.
Centers for Disease Control Virginia Department of Health
http://www.cdc.gov/ www.vdh.state.va.us/
Filed Under: Awareness, Latest News, Tick Bites
Skin Cancer Awareness Month Reminders
May 6, 2014 By Comderm
The following tips are from the Skin Cancer Foundation:
Skin cancer is a lifestyle disease, affecting young women, older men and everyone in between. One in five Americans will develop skin cancer in the course of a lifetime; 13 million Americans are living with a history of nonmelanoma skin cancer, and nearly 800,000 Americans are living with a history of melanoma, the most dangerous form of skin cancer.
But there is good news: because skin cancer is chiefly lifestyle disease, it is also highly preventable.
“About 90 percent of nonmelanoma skin cancers and 65 percent of melanoma cases are associated with exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation from the sun,” says Perry Robins, MD, President of The Skin Cancer Foundation. “Everyone, regardless of skin color, should make staying safe in the sun a priority and incorporate sun protection measures into their daily life.”
Reduce Your Skin Cancer Risk:
Seek the shade, especially between 10 AM and 4 PM when the sun is strongest. An extra rule of thumb is the “shadow rule.” If your shadow is shorter than you are, the sun’s harmful UV radiation is stronger; if your shadow is longer, UV radiation is less intense.
Do not burn. A person’s risk for melanoma doubles if he or she has had five or more sunburns at any point in life.
Avoid tanning and UV tanning booths. UV radiation from tanning machines is known to cause cancer in humans, and the more time a person has spent tanning indoors, the higher the risk. Those who make just four visits to a tanning salon per year can increase their risk for melanoma by 11 percent, and their risk for the two most common forms of skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, by 15 percent.
Cover up with clothing, including a broad-brimmed hat and UV-blocking sunglasses. Clothing can be your most effective form of sun protection, so make the most of it with densely woven and bright-or dark-colored fabrics, which offer the best defense. The more skin you cover, the better, so choose long sleeves and long pants whenever possible.
Use a broad spectrum (UVA/UVB) sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher every day. For extended outdoor activity, use a water-resistant, broad spectrum (UVA/UVB) sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher.
Apply 1 ounce (2 tablespoons) of sunscreen to your entire body 30 minutes before going outside. Reapply every two hours or immediately after swimming or excessive sweating.
Keep newborns out of the sun. Sunscreens may be used on babies over the age of six months, but they should also be protected by shade and clothing. Children are very sensitive to ultraviolet radiation— just one severe sunburn in childhood doubles the chances of developing melanoma later in life.
Examine your skin head-to-toe every month. While self-exams shouldn’t replace the important annual skin exam performed by a physician, they offer the best chance of detecting the early warning signs of skin cancer. If you notice any change in an existing mole or discover a new one that looks suspicious, see a physician immediately.
See your physician every year for a professional skin exam.
Filed Under: Awareness, Latest News, Sun Damage & Sun Protection
October is Eczema Awareness Month!!
October 17, 2013 By Comderm
In honor of Eczema Awareness Month, here are some tips to winterize your skin:
Follow the 3-Minute Rule. Bathe or shower daily for 10-15 minutes. This is the opportunity to hydrate your skin. Rinse well. Immediately after turning the water off, you have 3 minutes to (1) pat dry and (2) to apply a thick moisturizer to all skin (from head to toes). By doing this within 3 minutes, you are sealing in all the water to keep your skin moisturized for hours. If you wait longer than 3 minutes, the water you just gained from the bath will evaporate off your skin, taking more moisture with it, leading to more dryness.
Choose gentle cleansers. With the brisk weather and dry humidity, we need to be extra gentle to our skin. Only use a nondrying, gentle moisturizing cleanser and rinse well. Harsh soaps will cause more dryness and irritation. Good examples of a gentle cleanser are Cetaphil Gentle Cleanser, CeraVe Hydrating Cleanser, and Dove Sensitive Skin to name a few.
Choose thick emollient moisturizers. In the wintertime, thicker and greasier moisturizers work better. Thicker petrolatum based creams seal water in the skin, trapping it there to moisturize your skin for hours. Lotions are thinner and don’t work as well to seal in the moisture. A few examples of thick moisturizers are Cetaphil Moisturizing Cream, CeraVe Cream, Vanicream, Aquaphor, or plain Vaseline Petroleum Jelly. Use these twice a day to provide protection all day long and to prevent problems do to dry skin.
Keep those exposed areas protected. Areas that are always exposed will be more prone to problems due to harsh cold and dry weather. Use heavier creams on the face and the hands. Face: For the face, use thicker oil free moisturizers. If your skin is severely dry, use plain Vaseline to moisturize damp skin at night. Remember to use sunblock also. Although the weather is colder, you can still sunburn. If you are around water or snow, you are exposed to the sun that shines directly on you and from the sun that bounces off water and snow, putting you at more risk of sunburning. Hands: For the hands, avoid antibacterial gels and soaps. Use gentle cleansers and friction when washing the hands to remove bacteria. Choose hand creams that last longer such as Neutrogena Norwegian Formula Hand Cream, Vaniply, and Theraplex Emollient. Wear gloves to protect your hands from chapping and to help seal the moisturizer into the skin.
Don’t forget your lips. More people tend to lick their lips in the wintertime due to dryness. Overtime, lips become chapped from saliva evaporating off the lips, drawing more moisture away. Choose a thick moisturizing lip balm such as Moisturizing Chapstick, Blistex, Burt’s Bees, Vaseline or Aquaphor and apply these often. And if you accidentally lick your lips, follow up by greasing up again.
Warming up. Those things that help keep us warm in the winter can also cause issues. Home: Turning on the heat indoors dries out the air in your house. Therefore, your outside environment is dry as well as the comfort of your own home. You can remedy this by following the 3-minute rule above, by using a humidifier indoors, or even with the use of indoor water fountains. Car: Careful that your car heater is not pointed directly at your face or your feet. These areas can get easily over irritated and over dry causing you to itch in these areas. The car seat heater can also trigger irritation of the skin on your back and your bottom. Other heat: Heating pads and positioning yourself too close to a portable heater can also irritate your skin. Provide extra protection to these areas.
Basic skin care, as above, and moisturizing at least twice a day (and as many times as needed) can prevent many problems encountered as wintertime approaches.
Filed Under: Awareness, Eczema, Latest News, Sun Damage & Sun Protection
Patient Forms & Insurance
May Is Skin Cancer Awareness Month
May 1, 2017
The physicians at Commonwealth Dermatology encourage everyone to make both self-skin exams and … Read More
Itchy Skin Tips
April 19, 2017
Do you suffer from itchy skin that is considered a "chronic itch"? (lasting longer than 6 weeks)? … Read More
Resource Library
Resource Library Select Category Acne (3) Allergies & Itchy Skin (5) Awards (2) Awareness (8) Center For Healthy Skin (37) Botox & Injectibles (5) Cosmetic Dermatology (15) Cosmetic Products (18) Latisse (1) Product Specials (1) Ear Piercing (1) Eczema (15) Hair (5) Gum Removal (1) Hair Removal (2) Lice (1) Laser Hair Removal (2) Latest News (107) Lyme Disease (1) Melanoma (2) Molluscum Contagiosum (2) MRSA (1) Nail Care (1) Pediatric Dermatology (10) Pimples (1) Poison Ivy (1) Psoriasis (2) Scalp Issues (2) Shingles (1) Skin (14) Annual Exam (1) Antibacterial Soaps (1) Athletics and Skin (2) Dry Skin (4) hand sanitzers (1) Hand Washing (1) Self Skin Exam (1) Skin (1) Skin Care (2) Skin Cancer (6) Skin Care (2) Skin Exam (1) Sun Damage & Sun Protection (20) Sunburn (4) Sunscreen (6) Tanning (4) Tick Bites (2) Uncategorized (3)
Awards
Get Social
Patient Portal
Pay your bill, fill out forms online, get medical records, make appointments and send a message.
Providers
Learn more about the experienced providers at ComDerm.
Pediatrics
Meet two of the few Board-Certified Pediatric Dermatologists in Central Virginia.
Aesthetics
Our Center for Healthy Skin will keep you looking and feeling your best.
Book Your Appointments
To serve our patients better, all of our physicians and nurse practitioners are now accepting new patients. And we are making more
appointments available so you can get seen even faster without waiting.
Request Appointment Or Call
804.282.0831
Latest News
May Is Skin Cancer Awareness Month
May 1, 2017
The physicians at Commonwealth Dermatology encourage everyone to make both self-skin exams and … Read More
Spring 40% Off Close Out Sale
March 28, 2017
Jane Iredale Product Close Out Sale. 40% off all remaining products in … Read More
Eczema Facts
March 8, 2017
The American Academy of Dermatology has compiled some facts and stats … Read More
Contact
7001 Forest Ave, Ste 400,
Richmond, VA 23230
Phone : 804.282.0831
Fax : 804-288-7135
Commonwealth Dermatology © 2016 | HIPAA | Privacy Policy | Marketing by Impression Marketing
MENU
About
Mission & Values
Insurance
Forms
Job Openings
Providers
Provider Biographies
Services
Pediatrics Dermatology
Functional Medicine
Aesthetics
Aesthetics Services
Aesthetics Providers
Skincare Products
Lasers
News
Contact
Specials
PORTAL