Alternative Medicine in Chronic Migraine: What Clinicians Need to Know
Subscribe to PPM. Sign-up now! or Log In
FOLLOW US
Types of Pain
Acute Pain
Post-surgical Pain
Sports and Overuse Injury
Trauma
Cancer Pain
Headache
Cluster Headache
Migraine
Post-trauma Headache
Tension Headache
Neuropathic Pain
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
CRPS/RSD/Causalgia
Diabetic Neuropathy
Multiple Sclerosis
Phantom Limb Syndrome
Postherpetic Neuralgia
Trigeminal Neuralgia
Oral and Maxillofacial Pain
TMJ
Tooth Pain
Rheumatologic and Myofascial Pain
Fibromyalgia
Inflammatory Arthritis
Lupus and Other Autoimmune Disorders
Lyme and Other Infectious Diseases
Osteoarthritis
Plantar Fasciitis
Spine Pain
Discogenic Pain
Facet Syndrome
Myofascial Back Pain
Radiculopathy
Trauma
Other Types of Pain
Abdominal and Pelvis Pain
Brain Injury
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome
General Musculoskeletal Pain
Pain Co-morbidities
Pain Treatments
Addiction Medicine
Drug Monitoring/Screening
Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT)
Opioid Use Disorder (OUD)
Complementary Treatments
Acupuncture
Biobehavioral
Homeopathy
Lasers
Magnets
Prolotherapy
Interventional Pain Management
Ablations
Injections
Pumps
Stimulators
Manipulation and Massage
Massage
Osteopathic
Pharmacological
Marijuana/Cannabis
Non-opioids/OTC
Opioids
Tapering
Psychological
Biofeedback
Cognitive-behavioral Therapy
Rehabilitation
Exercise
Physical Therapy
Resources
Clinical Practice Guidelines
Diagnostic Tests
Ethics and Legal
Clinical Resources
Hospice/Palliative Care
News and Research
Opioid Prescribing and Monitoring - Second Edition
Opioid Prescribing and Monitoring - First Edition
Practice Management
Renew Your Subscription and List Your Practice for Free!Chronic pain sufferers are using our pain specialist directory to find pain specialists in your area. Register now and get your name in front of these patients!
Literature Review
Past Issues
FOR PATIENTS
RENEW OR SUBSCRIBE TO PPM
Subscription is FREE for qualified healthcare professionals in the US.
RENEW | SUBSCRIBE
Home » Pain Treatments » Nutraceutical
Download
Print
Tweet
Subscribe or renew to PPM
9 Articles in Volume 14, Issue #6
Migraine Treatment From A to Z
Alternative Medicine in Chronic Migraine 2014: What Clinicians Need to Know
Hormone Abnormalities in Uncontrolled Chronic Pain Patients: Use of Hormone Profiles
Interpreting Negative Urine Drug Test Results
Case Challenge: Chronic Opioid Use Causing Adrenal Insufficiency
Editor's Memo: Toxic Insurance Plans
Guest Editor's Memo: The Forgotten Patients: Those Who Benefit From Opioid Treatment
Ask the Expert: Multiple Benzo Prescriptions
Ask the Expert: Burning Foot Syndrome
Alternative Medicine in Chronic Migraine 2014: What Clinicians Need to Know
Migraine patients are increasingly turning to complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) for therapy. Therefore, clinicians who treat headache patients should gain a basic understanding of the efficacy and safety of these therapies.
By Soma Sahai-Srivastava, MD, Anne Csere, DO and Andrew Joyce, MD
Page 1 of 3
A wide variety of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) therapies exist for the treatment of migraine, including pharmacologic supplements, physical therapies, medicinal herbs and teas, and relaxation techniques. Although varying results exist for each of the therapies, the majority showed positive benefits for patients with minimal side effects. One survey of patients attending an outpatient headache clinic showed that 85% had used alternative therapies for headache relief, and 60% felt that the treatment had been useful.1 Because migraine patients increasingly are turning to CAM therapy, practitioners should gain a basic understanding of the efficacy and safety of these treatments. This review will provide a brief overview of CAM treatments that are available to migraineurs.
Pharmacologic Supplements
Ribofavin
Some of the most widely studied alternative therapies are vitamins and supplements. High-dose riboflavin, although only included in a few studies, has shown some results for reducing headache frequency and abortive medication use. The theory is that a deficit in mitochondrial energy metabolism may play a role in the pathogenesis of migraines.2
According to a study by Schoenen et al, 59% of patients receiving 400 mg riboflavin daily reduced their headache frequency by at least 50%, whereas only 15% of patients receiving placebo improved by 50% or more.2 It may be possible that only some participants respond because of mitochondrial DNA haplotypes, which may have been shown to influence patients’ responses to riboflavin.3
Another study found evidence that 50 mg of riboflavin could help treat mild migraines or tension-type headaches in pediatric populations.4 A third study used a combination of riboflavin, magnesium, and feverfew to treat migraines. This study showed that 42% of patients experienced a 50% or greater reduction in the number of headaches, although the results were not statistically different compared with a “placebo” or 25 mg riboflavin alone (Table 1).5
Magnesium
Magnesium is another promising alternative treatment for migraine patients. Multiple studies have reported low brain magnesium levels in migraineurs and the activities of magnesium in the body—counteracting vasospasm, inhibiting platelet aggregation, and stabilizing cell membranes—may be helpful in treating the cause of migraine.5,6 Although many of the studies have shown positive results, a few have been inconclusive. The first study completed was on women with menstrual migraine. This study showed that 120 mg of magnesium pyrrolidonecarboxylic acid taken three times per day led to a significant reduction in the number of days with headache (P<0.01) and total pain index (P<0.03).7
Following that study, a placebo-controlled randomized study of 81 patients with migraines showed improvement in patients taking trimagnesium dicitrate in a granular powder. Attack frequency was reduced by 41.6% in the magnesium group, compared to only 15.8% in the placebo group.7 However, the next placebo-controlled, double-blind trial showed no effects of oral magnesium on migraine.7 Roughly half of the patients taking magnesium suffered from diarrhea, and therefore were unlikely to absorb the magnesium adequately. Additionally, magnesium is a preventative agent with a category A pregnancy rating, and thus may be helpful for patients trying to become pregnant.
More recently, a 12-week trial of 600 mg magnesium citrate in patients with migraines without aura demonstrated a reduction in the migraine attack frequency, severity, and P1 amplitude in visual-evoked potential examination.8 Additionally, blood flow to the cortex, inferolateral temporal region, and insular regions increased significantly after magnesium treatment. These results indicate that magnesium may alter the blood flow to the brain and prevent migraine. Finally, a study on patients aged 3 to 17 years with migraine were given 9 mg/kg of magnesium oxide thrice daily. The magnesium oxide group showed a significant reduction in headache days compared with those patients given placebo. However, the slope of treatment trends was not statistically significantly different, and as such, the study could not say unequivocally that magnesium is a beneficial therapy for children.5
Overall, magnesium appears to be a beneficial prophylactic therapy for many patients as long as they are able to control its side effects.
Studies have been inconsistent with whether magnesium may be helpful in a random sampling of patients with acute migraine.7 One study found that 86% of patients with a serum ionized magnesium (IMg2+) less than 0.54 mmol/L had relief of pain and associated symptoms that lasted more than 24 hours. However, in patients with a level greater than 0.54 mmol/L, only 16% improved.7 Thus, serum IMg2+ levels may be key to predicting responders to IV magnesium therapy. It also should be noted that patients in the emergency room who received metoclopramide did just as well as patients receiving magnesium, and that a combination of magnesium and metoclopramide actually was worse than metoclopramide alone.7
View Sources
References
Von Peter S, Ting W, Scrivani S, et al. Survey on the use of complementary and alternative medicine among patients with headache syndromes. Cephalalgia. 2002;22(5):395-400.
Schoenen J, Jacquy J, Lenaerts M. Effectiveness of high-dose riboflavin in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized controlled trial. Neurology. 1998;50(2):466-470.
Di Lorenzo C, Pierelli F, Coppola G, et al. Mitochondrial DNA haploroups influence the therapeutic response to riboflavin in migraineurs. Neurology. 2009;72(18):1588-1594.
Bruijn J, Duivenvoorden H, Passchier J, Locher H, Dijkstra N, Arts WF. Medium-dose riboflavin as a prophylactic agent in children with migraine: a preliminary placebo-controlled, randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial.Cephalalgia. 2010;30(12):1426-1434.
Evans RW, Taylor FR. “Natural” or alternative medications for migraine prevention. Neurology. 2006;46(6):1012-1018.
Bianchi A, Salomone S, Caraci F, Pizza V, Bernardini R, D’Amato CC. Role of magnesium, coenzyme Q10, riboflavin, and vitamin B12 in migraine prophylaxis. Vitam Horm. 2004;69:297-312.
Sun-Edelstein C, Mauskop A. Role of magnesium in the pathogenesis and treatment of migraine. Expert Rev Neurother. 2009;9(3):369-379.
Köseoglu E, Talaslioglu A, Gönül AS, Kula M. The effects of magnesium prophylaxis in migraine without aura. Magnes Res. 2008;21(2):101-108.
Rozen TD, Oshinsky ML, Gebeline CA, et al. Open label trial of coenzyme Q10 as a migraine preventive. Cephalalgia. 2002;22(2):137-141.
Hershey AD, Powers SW, Vockell AL, et al. Coenzyme Q10 deficiency and response to supplementation in pediatric and adolescent migraine. Headache. 2007;47(1):73-80.
Pradalier A, Bakouche P, Baudesson G, et al. Failure of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in prevention of migraine: a double-blind study versus placebo. Cephalalgia. 2001;21(8):818-822.
Boericke W. Materia Medica. http://www.homeoint.org/books/boericmm/index.htm
The Homeopathic Pharmacoepia of the United States. http://www.hpus.com
Meents JE, Neeb L, Reuter U. TRPV1 in migraine pathophysiology. TINS. 2010;16:153-159
Liu L, Oortgiesen M, Li L, Simon SA. Capsaicin inhibits activation of voltage gated sodium currents in capsaicin-sensitive trigeminal ganglion neurons. J Neurophysiol. 2001;85:745-758
Zhong GW, Li W, Luo YH, et al. Acupuncture at points of the liver and gallbladder meridians for treatment of migraine: a multi-center randomized and controlled study. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2009;29(4):259-263.
Guirguis-Blake J. Effectiveness of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis. Am Fam Physician. 2010;81(1):29-30.
National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. NCCAM terms related to complementary and alternative medicine. http://nccam.nih.gov/health/providers/camterms.htm. Accessed July 7, 2014.
Voigt K, Liebnitzky J, Burmeister U, et al. Efficacy of osteopathic manipulative treatment of female patients with migraine: results of a randomized controlled trial. J Altern Complement Med. 2011;17(3):225-230.
Keays AC, Neher JO, Safranek S, Webb CW. Clinical inquiries: is osteopathic manipulation effective for headaches? J Fam Pract. 2008;57(3):190-191.
Bronfort G, Assendelft WJ, Evans R, Haas M, Bouter L. Efficacy of spinal manipulation for chronic headache: a systematic review. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2001;24(7):
457-466.
University of Maryland Medical Center. Complementary medicine: feverfew. http://www.umm.edu/altmed/articles/feverfew-000243.htm. Accessed July 9, 2014.
Cady RK, Goldstein J, Nett R, Mitchell R, Beach ME, Browning RA. Double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study of sublingual feverfew and singer (LipiGesicTMM) in the treatment of migraine. Headache. 2011;51(7):1078-1086.
Ernst E, Pittler MH. The efficacy and safety of feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium L.): an update of a systematic review. Public Health Nutr. 2000;3(4A):509-514.
Holland, Silberstein, Freitag F, et al. Evidence-based guideline update: NSAIDs and other complementary treatments for episodic migraine prevention in adults. Neurology. 2012:78(17):1346-1353.
Prieto J. Update on the efficacy and safety of Petadolex, a butterbur extract for migraine prophylaxis. Botanics: Targets and Therapy. 2014:1-9.
Hongratanaworakit T. Aroma-therapeutic effects of massage blended essential oils on humans. Nat Prod Commun. 2011;6(8):
1199-1204.
Wachholtz AB, Pargament KI. Migraines and meditation: does spirituality matter? J Behav Med. 2008;31(4):351-366.
John P, Sharma N, Sharma CM, Kankane A. Effectiveness of yoga therapy in the treatment of migraine without aura: a randomized controlled trial. Headache. 2007;47(5):654-661.
Sahai-Srivastava S, Joyce A, Christie CC, Ugurlu C, Manh C, Kimblin Leight H. Pilot study of laughter yoga therapy in treatment of chronic migraine. Headache. 2014;54(S1):30.
Last updated on: May 19, 2015
1
2
3
Next
Last
Join The Conversation
Register or Log-in to Join the Conversation
What others are saying
1 comment.
By andrew_2 on 08/30/2014
Re chiropractic and related treatments it is of relevance to note that the use of botox for migraines is directed at spasm in the suboccipital muscles. The point that I am leading to is that any review of chiropractic efficacy would need to focus specifically on upper cervical interventions and would also need to look at the success of the intervention in correcting the identified upper cervical malalignment. In other words-- the metanalysis quoted here really is not enough to go on without further inspection of the studies reviewed, and the studies that failed to get included in the metanalysis.
Pain Treatments
Addiction Medicine
Bracing/Splinting/Prosthesis
Complementary Treatments
Hormone Therapy
Interventional Pain Management
Manipulation and Massage
Nutraceutical
Pharmacological
Psychological
Rehabilitation
Recent PPM Issues
March 2019
Volume 19, Issue #2
View issue
January/February 2019
Volume 19, Issue #1
View issue
December 2018
Volume 18, Issue #9
View issue
View all Past Issues
Vertical Health Websites
Types of Pain
Acute Pain
Cancer Pain
Headache
Neuropathic Pain
Oral and Maxillofacial Pain
Rheumatologic and Myofascial Pain
Spine Pain
Other Types of Pain
Pain Treatments
Addiction Medicine
Bracing/Splinting/Prosthesis
Complementary Treatments
Hormone Therapy
Interventional Pain Management
Manipulation and Massage
Nutraceutical
Pharmacological
Psychological
Rehabilitation
Pain Resources
Clinical Practice Guidelines
Diagnostic Tests
Ethics and Legal
Hospice/Palliative Care
Practice Management
Meeting Highlights
Opioid Calculator
Policy and Contact
About PPM
Press Releases
Advertising Opportunities
Editorial Board
Editorial Guidelines
Media Guide
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
For Patients
©1999 - 2019 Vertical Health LLC
Vertical Health Media, LLC does not, by publication of the advertisements contained herein, express endorsement or verify the accuracy and effectiveness of the products and claims contained therein. Vertical Health Media, LLC disclaims any liability for damages resulting from the use of any product advertised herein and suggests that readers fully investigate the products and claims prior to purchasing. The views of the authors are not necessarily those of Vertical Health Media, LLC.
Practical Pain Management is sent without charge 10 times per year to pain management clinicians in the US.
Use of this website is conditional upon your acceptance of our user agreement.
Subscribe to "Pain Monitor", a PPM eNewsletter for HCPs
If you are not a healthcare professional click here to subscribe to our patient newsletter.
Practical Pain Management is a Vertical Health, LLC web property. Please add updates@practicalpainmanagement.com to your address book to ensure delivery.
close X
SHOW MAIN MENU
SHOW SUB MENU