Magnetic therapy for sport
Magnetic therapy for sport
In the aftermath of the Euro 2012 Soccer tournament and the Wimbledon tennis championship – and with the 2012 Olympics looming up ahead – one issue that is of particular concern to many people at the moment is sports injuries. This can mean anything from bruising to fractures and broken bones.
Now obviously for the more severe injuries, conventional medicine is necessary, but for those lingering pains, strains and sprains, magnetic therapy pain relief can be a useful addition to the treatment. Indeed magnetic bracelets sport treatment is a recognized process within the sporting world.
This is not just a matter of guesswork: the effects of magnetism on sporting injuries have been studied and it has been established that one of the best ways of reducing inflammation from such a human-human collision injury (such as might occur in football, rugby or hockey) is by placing a south pole over the affected area until such inflammation is eliminated or at least substantially reduced, along with most of the pain, in accordance with the general theory of magnetic therapy pain relief.
At that point the magnet should be reversed so that the north pole faces the injured area. The purpose of this to increase the circulation of blood which in turn oxygenates the afflicted region and increases cell replenishment. There are some outdated sources that claim that only the south pole of a magnet should be used for treating injuries. But this is an oversimplification. In the first stage of the healing process, it is indeed the magnetic south pole that is important. But healing is a two-stage process and the reversal of polarity plays a vital role in the second stage.
It is important to recognize that magnets are useful but do not offer a panacea for all such injuries. So for example magnet therapy cannot realign the backbone. But they can assist in reducing the pain from back injuries, especially chronic pains from old injuries that have not responded to other treatments. Indeed magnetic therapy back pain relief is something well-attested to by those who have used it when other treatments have failed.
Another area which can benefit from this approach is wrist injuries. Weight-lifters, and those who use weight training to strengthen themselves for other sports, can often sustain injuries to their wrists as a result of such training and sporting activities. Copper magnetic bracelets for men have been shown to be an excellent form of non-invasive treatment that can provide healing benefits while the person gets on with other activities – including sports training itself.
For these reasons, it can confidently be said that magnetic therapy for sport has a healthy future.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
› Magnetic therapy for sport
HEALTH & MAGNETS
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In