Fungal Nail & Fungal Infection Skin Treatment - Buy Daktarin | Hyperdrug
01833 641112
My Account
0 Items £0.00
Search
£0.00
My Account
Victorian Pharmacy
Medicines
Embarrassing
POM
Toiletries
Health
Supplements
Sexual
Baby
First Aid
Homeopathy
Brands
Animals
Search
Home / Online Pharmacy UK / Embarrassing / Fungal Conditions of Skin or Nails
Fungal Nail & Fungal Infection Skin Treatment
We stock a great range of fungal nail treatment products ranging from our best sellers, Daktarin Gold Cream an antifungal cream which provides rapid relief from athletes foot, dhobie itch and infected sweat rash to Canesten Cream which is used to treat fungal infection skin such as ringworm, athletes foot, fungal nappy rash and fungal sweat rash. It can also used to relieve irritation of the vulva (external thrush) or the end of the penis, which may be associated with thrush. Check out our full range of products below.
.
Sort by Price Low->High Price High->Low Title A->Z Title Z->A Item Code A->Z Item Code Z->A Popularity Top Rated
Daktacort HC Cream 15g
Daktacort HC Cream 15g - used to treat fungal skin infections such as sweat rash and athletes foot. Contains Miconazole Nitrate - an anti-fungal as well as a mild topical steroid - Hydrocortisone Acetate.
Item #: DAKTA
(1 reviews)
£4.89 Incl. Vat
Daktarin Powder Original 20g
Daktarin Powder is used to treat fungal and bacterial infections on the skin.
£4.85 Incl. Vat
Canesten 1% Clotrimazole Cream 50g
This soothing Canesten cream contains the active anti-fungal ingredient clotrimazole which can effectively treat your ring worm infection and relieve your symptoms.
£5.79 Incl. Vat
Lamisil AT 1% Spray 15ml
Fungal infections of the skin are common, and can cause real discomfort.
£4.69 Incl. Vat
Daktarin Gold Cream 15g
Daktarin Gold Cream containing Ketoconazole. Antifungal providing rapid relief from athletes foot, dhobie itch and infected sweat rash.
Item #: DAKGOLD
(1 reviews)
£5.95 Incl. Vat
Clear Zal BAC Nail Solution 30ml
ClearZal BAC is the UK’s bestselling broad spectrum antimicrobial solution for nails. More effective than an antifungal agent, 50% of nail infections can contain bacteria alone or in addition to fungus, in which cases, an antifungal agent would be ineffective.
£19.49 Incl. Vat
Canesten 1% Clotrimazole Cream 20g
This soothing Canesten cream contains the active anti-fungal ingredient clotrimazole which can effectively treat your ring worm infection and relieve your symptoms.
£3.19 Incl. Vat
Canesten Dual Action 1% w/w Cream 30g
This dual action cream is both an anti-fungal and an anti-bacterial. The active anti-fungal ingredient clotrimazole works to eradicate the fungi that causes your athlete’s foot, while the anti-bacterial gets rid of the bacteria that can cause your feet to smell.
£3.95 Incl. Vat
Lamisil Once 1% 4g
Lamisil Once is a single dose treatment for Athlete’s Foot. It contains 10 mg of the fungicidal active substance Terbinafine (as hydrochloride) per 1 g of solution.
£10.24 Incl. Vat
Curanail 5% Nail Laquer 3ml
Curanail 5% Nail Lacquer Amorolfine Treatment is a once weekly treatment for mild fungal nail infections. Curanail Nail provides treatment for up to two nails.
£19.59 Incl. Vat
Scholl Fungal Nail Treatment 3.8ml
Scholl Fungal Nail Treatment is a uniquely designed system for the treatment of fungal nail.
£17.99 Incl. Vat
Lamisil AT 1% Gel 15g
Lamisil AT Gel is for the treatment of athlete's foot, dhobie itch and ringworm. For the effective relief of the itching and burning, cracking and scaling which accompanies these conditions.
£5.09 Incl. Vat
Lamisil AT Cream 15g
Lamisil AT Cream 15g for fungal infections of Athlete's foot and dhobie itch, jock itch. Relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions.
£5.15 Incl. Vat
Clear Zal Complete Foot & Nail System
ClearZal Complete Nail and Foot System brings ClearZal BAC and ClearZal Sanitiser together to provide a complete solution to keeping feet clean and healthy.
£27.99 Incl. Vat
Canesten Bifonazole Once Daily 1% w/w Cream 20g
This effective treatment provides relief from itching and redness and should be continued for 2-3 weeks. The active ingredient penetrates deep into your skin, so the cream has to be applied only once daily to treat the infection.
£4.39 Incl. Vat
Home | My Account | About Us | WishList | Blog | Help | Site Map | Contact Us | Catalogue Code | Charity Making a Difference
A-Z Shop By...
Brands
Pet Meds (Prescription Only)
Products
Hyperdrug Brand
Popular Searches
Popular Categories
New Product Arrivals
My Account
Order Status
Email Offers
Quick Order
Address Book
Returns
Hyperdrug Reviews
Delivery Information
Accreditations
< onclick="window.open(this.href,'Feefo','width=800,height=600,scrollbars,resizable');return false;">
Privacy Policy | Legal