What Causes Anemia? | PediatricEducation.org™
PediatricEducation.org™
Pediatric Digital Library and Learning Collaboratory intended to serve as a source of continuing pediatric education, curated by Donna M. D'Alessandro M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro M.D.
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Home
About
FAQ
Cases by Age
Cases by Disease
Cases by Specialty
Cases by Symptom
Pediatric DDX
Cases by Date
Curriculum Maps
Educational Uses
Links
Reviews
Contact Us
Post navigation
← Previous Next →
What Causes Anemia?
Posted on May 15, 2017 by pediatriceducationmin
Patient Presentation
An 8-year-old female with an underlying genetic syndrome presented with some fatigue, cough and fever for 3 days. The patient had no bruising or bleeding symptoms. The past medical history showed her to eat a variety of pureed feeds and receive overnight continuous feeds through a gastrostomy tube. The liquid nutritional supplement did have iron in it. The family history was negative for any hematological problems including anemia. The review of systems was negative.
The pertinent physical exam showed a non-verbal female who looked mildly ill with a temperature of 38.0°C, heart rate of 96 beats/minute and respiratory rate of 24.
She was in her wheelchair. HEENT showed pale, non-icteric conjunctiva, mild rhinorrhea, with normal pharynx and ears. She did not have increased work of breathing and she had transmitted upper airway noises. Her abdomen was soft, non-tender without adenopathy and her G-tube area had normal skin. Rectal examination was negative for occult blood. She had no skin lesions. The laboratory evaluation included a complete blood count which showed a hemoglobin of 7.8 g/dL, MCV of 71 fl, and with normal platelets, white blood cells and cell subtypes. The peripheral smear showed small pale cells without abnormal shape. The reticulocyte count was low. Iron studies completed later were consistent with iron deficiency anemia. Lead and thyroid testing were negative.
The work-up included a chest radiograph that was negative. An ultrasound examination of her abdomen to evaluate for occult masses or other pathology was also negative. A review of her medications did not show any that caused bone marrow suppression or hemolysis.
The diagnosis of iron deficiency anemia and an upper respiratory tract infection were made. It was unclear why she had the iron deficiency anemia because it appeared that she should have had adequate nutrition from her oral and gastrostomy feedings. Iron supplementation was begun and a dietician reviewed her diet but did not recommend any additional changes. The patient’s clinical course over the next month showed that her upper respiratory tract infection had improved, but she was somewhat less energetic than she usually was. Her repeat laboratory testing showed a hemoglobin of 9.6 g/dL and a reticulocyte count of 18%. Her other hematologic indices also improved. She continued to have no obvious bleeding symptoms. At that time the physician elected to continue to monitor her and felt that her anemia and fatigue were still most likely due to nutritional deficiency and would monitor her closely.
Discussion
One of the most common problems in pediatrics is anemia. It is defined as “a lower than normal value for the related measurements of hemoglobin, hematocrit, and number of red blood cells”, usually 2 standard deviations below the normal for age. Normal hematological values change with age. For a discussion of which values are used click here.
The most common type of anemia in childhood is iron deficiency which is commonly caused by inadequate stores (e.g. premature infant), inadequate intake (e.g. poor nutrition) or blood loss (e.g. menses). Anemia screening is recommended at age 9-12 months, and for adolescent males and females during routine health examinations. As iron deficiency is the most common cause, often a trial of therapeutic iron (2-6 mg/kg/day of elemental iron) is started and then a complete blood count is rechecked ~ 1 month later. If iron deficiency is the cause then there should be an increase in the hemoglobin and hematocrit. If not, other causes must be sought. For a discussion of why anemias may not correct click here.
History is very important to help direct the evaluation and workup. A detailed dietary history including pica or lead ingestion can give clues to a possible dietary reason for the anemia, especially iron deficiency anemia. Blood loss history including trauma, bleeding or potential occult loss from the genitourinary tract are also very helpful. Bone marrow production problems (e.g. malignancy, infectious diseases) or hemolysis risks (e.g. sickle cell anemia) also must be looked for. Some causes have multiple etiologies such as a decreased red blood cell half life coupled with increased risk for hemolysis (e.g. sickle cell anemia).
Signs and symptoms of anemia include:
No symptoms
Developmental delay
Irritability
Heart failure
Lethargy and fatigue
Organomegaly – spleen, liver, lymph nodes
Pallor
Poor oral intake
Tachycardia
Signs of hemolysis – jaundice, paleness, dark urine
Stool color changes, blood in stool or urine
Weight loss
Review of the medical records for family history of anemia or hematopoietic diseases is very important along with reviewing any previous laboratory testing including neonatal screening. Sometimes much of the needed evaluation has already been previously completed for other reasons such as neonatal screening.
It is also important to evaluate all components of the complete blood count to look for other abnormalities such as platelet or white blood cell count problems. Other related cases can be found here: Lymphocytosis, Eosinophilia, Thrombocytosis, and Thrombocytopenia.
Learning Point
The differential diagnosis of anemia includes:
Nutritional
Iron deficiency
Poor nutrition – inadequate iron intake, abnormal eating patterns
Other nutrient deficiencies – folate, B12, riboflavin, Vitamin C, copper
Excessive milk intake
Lead toxicity
Malabsorption
Prematurity because of inadequate stores
Anemia of chronic disease
Autoimmune diseases
Liver disease
Hypothyroidism
Hematological
Hematopoietic problem
Congenital aplastic anemia
Fanconi
Blackfan-Diamond
Schwachman
Malignancy
Transient erythroblastopenia of childhood
Medication or toxin exposure – anticonvulsants, Zidovudine
Storage diseases – lipids, Langerhans cell histocystosis
Hemolysis
Congenital hemolytic anemia
Membrane defects
Elliptocytosis
Hereditary spherocytosis
Enzyme defects
G-6-PD deficiency
Pyruvate kinase deficiency
Hemoglobin problems
Sickle cell disease
Hemoglobin S or C or other hemoglobinopathies
Sideroblastic anemia
Thalassemia
Immune hemolytic anemia – Rh or ABO incompatibility, cold agglutinin, warm agglutinin
Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia – hemolytic uremia syndrome, Kasabach-Merritt syndrome
Hypersplenism
Liver disease
Renal disease
Telangectasia
Wilson disease
Mechanical – artificial heart valve
Medication or toxin exposure – anticonvulsants, Zidovudine, aluminum, lead
Infectious disease
Congenital infection
Bacteremia/Septicemia/Disseminated intravascular coagulation
Malaria
Viral
Common viral infections
Congenital infections
Hepatitis
Blood loss
Epistaxis
Cephalohematoma
Gastrointestinal – inflammatory bowel disease, polyps, varices, Meckel’s diverticulum
Menses
Trauma
Other bleeding problems such as hemophilia or platelet disorders
Twin-twin transfusion
Placental/umbilical bleeding
Pulmonary hemosiderosis
Hemorrhagic disease of the newborn
Urinary – paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
Other
Dilutional
Excessive phlebotomy
Munchausen syndrome or Munchausen by proxy
Questions for Further Discussion
1. On a peripheral blood smear, what types of findings are helpful in determining an anemia’s cause?
2. Anemia is often classified by red blood cell size. What are some of the common causes of microcytic, normocytic or macrocytic anemias?
3. What are indications for a bone marrow evaluation in a child with anemia?
Related Cases
Disease: Anemia
Symptom/Presentation: Fatigue
Specialty: Hematology
Age: School Ager
To Learn More
To view pediatric review articles on this topic from the past year check PubMed.
Evidence-based medicine information on this topic can be found at SearchingPediatrics.com, the National Guideline Clearinghouse and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews.
Information prescriptions for patients can be found at MedlinePlus for this topic: Anemia
To view current news articles on this topic check Google News.
To view images related to this topic check Google Images.
To view videos related to this topic check YouTube Videos.
Sheldon SH, Levy HB. Pediatric Differential Diagnosis. Second Edition. Raven Press: New York. 1985:12-15.
Cohen PS. Anemia, in Pediatrics A Primary Care Approach, Berkowitz CD ed. W.B. Saunders Co. Philadelphia PA. 1996;230-34.
Engorn B, Flerlage J. The Harriet Lane Handbook. 20th Edit. Elsevier Saunders. 2015: 308.
Sandoval C. Approach to the Child with Anemia. UpToDate. (online resource) (rev. 6/4/2015, cited 2/25/17).
Author
Donna M. D’Alessandro, MD
Professor of Pediatrics, University of Iowa Children’s Hospital
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Related
This entry was posted in Uncategorized by pediatriceducationmin. Bookmark the permalink.
Join us on
To read previous cases use the case archives: Cases by Age, Cases by Disease, Cases by Specialty, Cases by Symptom, Cases by Date.
Subscribe to a mailing list to be notified monthly of new PediatricEducation.org cases: http://www.freelists.org/list/pediatriceducationnews
PediatricEducation.org is curated by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and by Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Please send us comments by filling out our Comment Form.
All contents copyright © 2003-2019 Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. All rights reserved.
"PediatricEducation.org", the PediatricEducation.org logo, "A Pediatric Digital Library and Learning Collaboratory intended to serve as a source of continuing pediatric education" are all Trademarks of Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
PediatricEducation.org is funded in whole by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Advertising is not accepted.
No personal or non-personal information is collected. No cookies are used.
The information contained in PediatricEducation.org is not a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician. There may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
URL: http://www.pediatriceducation.org/
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.