Hip Osteoarthritis Exercises, Treatment and exercise options for hip arthritis
Home
Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Arthritis Symptoms
Arthritis Treatment
Arthritis Diet
Joint Conditions
Shoulder
Elbow
Wrist
Hand
Fingers
Lower Back
Hip
Knee
Ankle
Foot
Toes
Treatment
Surgery
Back
Joint Pain
Shoulder
Hip
Knee
Supplements
Resources
Joint Pain Blog
Disclaimer
About Me
Contact Us
Sitemap: Conditions
Sitemap: Treatment
Questions & Answers
Search Site
Newsletter
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Hip Osteoarthritis Exercises
Are you looking for hip osteoarthritis exercises? Hip Osteoarthritis can be managed with following some general osteoarthritis treatment and exercise guidelines. Of course, as part of the overall treatment program, utilize ice therapy to help minimize localized pain and swelling. In addition, avoid all aggravating activities.
It is important that both stretching and strengthening exercises be performed pain free. You may feel some slight discomfort with the stretching exercises but do not push into pain.
As part of a hip exercise program, consider using a stationary exercise bike. Repetitive motion helps to mobilize and lubricate stiff joints.
Hip Osteoarthritis Exercises: Stretching
Hip Flexor Stretch
For best results, perform this exercise on the floor with a pillow under your knee. To stretch your left hip flexor, position yourself in a half kneeling position with your left knee on a pillow and your right leg bent supporting you. Keep your lower back in a neutral position. Shift your weight forward, with the focus of moving from your pelvis. You should feel a stretch in the front of your left hip. Hold this position for 20 seconds. Repeat this stretch three times on each leg, two times a day.
Piriformis Stretch
Lie on your back on the floor or firm surface. To stretch the right leg, place the right ankle on the left knee. While maintaining this position, bring the left leg up toward your chest. Use your hands on the back of the left thigh to assist with bringing the left knee up to your chest. You should feel the stretch in the buttocks of the right leg. Hold this stretch for 20 seconds. Repeat two times on each leg, two times a day.
Single Knee to Chest Stretch
Lie on your back on the floor or a firm surface. Using your hands for assistance, bring one knee up toward your chest. Be careful not to compress the knee. If knee pain occurs use your hands on the back of the thigh instead of the front of the knee. Hold the stretch for 20 seconds. Repeat three times on each leg, twice a day.
Hamstring Stretch
Lie on your back on the floor or firm surface. Use a jump rope, dog leash, or belt, and hook it around the ball of your foot on the leg you will be stretching. Keeping the leg straight, use your arms and the rope to lift the leg up. The stretch should be felt in the back of the knee or back of the thigh. Hold this stretch for 60 seconds. Repeat two times for each leg, twice a day.
Hip Osteoarthritis Exercises: Strengthening
Straight Leg Raise
Position yourself lying on your back with the arthritic knee straight and the opposite knee flexed. Tighten the quadriceps muscle on the involved leg. Keeping the muscle tight, lift the leg off the ground and up to the level of the opposite bent knee. Lift and lower leg slowly. Repeat 2 sets of 10 repetitions.
Bridges
Lie on your back with both knees bent. Keeping your stomach tight, slowly lift your buttocks up off the floor. Hold at the top for a count of 5 seconds. Repeat 2 sets of 10 repetitions.
Hip Abduction
Lie on your side with the involved leg on top. Bend the non surgical leg to help keep you balanced. Tighten the quadriceps muscle, keeping your knee as straight as possible. Slowly lift you leg up toward the ceiling. Lift and lower your leg slowly. Repeat 2 sets of 10 repetitions.
Return to Top
Return from Hip Osteoarthritis Exercises to Hip Pain Relief Home
Copyright 2009-13 / All pages written by Janelle Trempe PT, ATC / Joint Pain Solutions. All rights reserved.
SBI!