6 Natural Ways to Heal Scar Tissue | Daily Health Alerts 6 Natural Ways to Heal Scar Tissue | Daily Health Alerts
Home
Contact Us
Write For Us
Advertise
Diet & Fitness
Natural Health
News & Articles
Free Reports
Vision & Eyesight
Macular Degeneration
Quizzes
Brain Score Quiz
Vision IQ Quiz
6 Natural Ways to Heal Scar Tissue
Posted by Daily Health Alerts in Natural Health, News & Articles
When you sustain a deep cut or surgical procedure that requires the skin to be sutured, your body immediately goes into emergency mode to close it. Unfortunately, there is no built in aesthetic method which enables your body to close a wound without a visible scar. Instead, it haphazardly creates a thick matrix of ‘webbing’ that joins the skin any way it can.
Before you run to a plastic surgeon or spend hundreds of dollars on synthetic creams and gels, try these 6 natural ways to heal scar tissue. Sometimes it’s the easiest fix that gets the job done.
Raw Honey
Raw honey has been used medicinally for centuries. It has been found that before honey is ‘pasteurized’ it contains high amounts of anti-microbial, anti-fungal and anti-inflammatory compounds.
A pilot study published in the ‘International Quarterly Journal of Research in Ayurveda’ (Jul-Sept 2012) concluded that,
“On the basis of clinical observations obtained, it can be concluded that the trial drug Madhu (Honey) possess antibacterial and wound healing properties without showing any adverse effects…In the present study, wound healing activity of honey on cutaneous wounds showed highly significant results,”
Coconut Oil
The coconut is like a portable medicine cabinet. It holds a variety of healing properties that include skin enhancing compounds. Its medium chain fatty acids are instantly embraced by the body when applied to new scar tissue.
In studies, coconut oil has shown to reverse free-radical damage a major contributor to scar tissue degeneration. According to one Indian study published in ‘Skin pharmacology and physiology’,
“VCO [virgin coconut oil] – treated wounds healed much faster, as indicated by a decreased time of complete epithelization and higher levels of various skin components…The beneficial effect of VCO can be attributed to the cumulative effect of various biologically active minor components present in it.”
Aloe Vera
Iranian researchers studied the effects of the topical application of aloe vera gel to acute wounds of rodents. Their results were published in Laboratory Animal (3/28/12) showing that,
“…the Aloe leaf gel extract infiltrates into the wounds, contributes to the increase of fibroblasts, macrophages, and epidermal cells activities; subsequently facilitates enzyme activity during collagen remodeling; and possibly even aids in the formation of cross linkages as the collagen matures.”
Vitamin E
Using vitamin E to help repair scar tissue has been a popular go-to remedy. Yet often, unbeknownst to most, it is also a controversial treatment as some claim there is no evidence of its healing benefits outside hydration.
However, its mechanism is described in an article by Dr. Sarah M. Taylor published in The Dermatologist magazine (vol 16 Is 6 June 08),
“When the skin is injured, free oxygen radicals released by neutrophils in the inflammatory phase decrease healing by damaging DNA, cellular membranes, proteins, and lipids, leading ultimately to cell death. This damage is theorized to be reduced by antioxidants, of which vitamin E is the main lipid-soluble antioxidant in the skin, thus enhancing wound healing.”
Almonds
The mashed “meat” of almonds or its extracted oil have shown to enhance wound healing and may help with scar reduction.
Complimentary therapies in clinical practice cites a study by researchers at the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Salisbury General Hospital, Wiltshire, UK
that claims,
“…almonds and almond oil have many properties including anti-inflammatory, immunity-boosting and anti-hepatotoxicity [damaging to liver cells] effects.”
For a raw almond application, it is recommended to soak four or five almonds in water overnight. Remove skin, mash to a pulp and apply to scar tissue.
Tea Tree Oil
This medicinal smelling, highly potent oil derived from the Australian Tea Tree holds antiviral, antibacterial and antifungal properties. Observational reports show that for some people this powerful oil is able to reduce the appearance of scar tissue while at the same time could eradicate toxins that may cause infection. Note: This oil can be astringent to the skin. Dilute in water and test on a small area to avoid irritation.
Talk to your physician or naturopathic doctor to see if these 6 natural ways to heal scar tissue may work for you.
Similar Posts
Clove Oil: Toothache to Anti-Inflammatory Remedy
3 Do’s and 3 Don’ts to Prevent Chapped Lips
Naturally Preventing and Healing Herpes
Studies Confirm Why You Should Own A Bottle Of Tea Tree Oil
5 Surprising Honey Fixes
Source :
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3665090/, http://www.thealternativedaily.com/natural-scar-removing-remedies-work/, http://blogs.naturalnews.com/14-effective-home-remedies-scar-removal/, http://www.naturalnews.com/030419_scars_remedies.html, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3315193/, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20523108, http://www.the-dermatologist.com/article/8866, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20129403
Take a quiz
Most Popular Posts
#1 WORST Food For Your Eyes & Vision
5 Tips to Buy Best Macular Degeneration Eye Vitamins & Supplements
10 Dangers of Melatonin
10 Healthy Benefits of Cinnamon and Turmeric
Homeopathy for Erectile Dysfunction
How To Improve Your Vision Naturally
Homemade Salves and Prevention for Lipoma Treatment
Ban This Common Oil from Your Kitchen Immediately
7 Dangers of Biting Your Fingernails
Macular Degeneration: Super Food and Supplement Studies
Recent Articles
4 Surprising Ways to Beat Insomnia
Beware of Macular Degeneration Hallucinations
The Importance of Breakfast—and Fitness— in the Morning
Ease Ulcerative Colitis with Alternative Remedies
6 Healing Properties of Apple Cider Vinegar
Surprising Natural Remedies For Yellowing Teeth
6 Natural Ways to Improve Circulation
Fight Fatigue with Easy Energy Enhancing Recipes
4 Natural Pet Allergy Remedies
5 Herbs That May Lower Your Blood Pressure
Advertisement
Legal
About
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Copyright by DailyHealthAlerts.com All rights reserved.
MENU
Home
Contact Us
Write For Us
Advertise