10 benefits of vitamin E oil
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Ten benefits of vitamin E oil
Last reviewed	 Fri 30 June 2017	 Last reviewed	Fri 30 Jun 2017
By Zawn Villines
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Vitamin E oil: The basics
Ten potential benefits
Risks and considerations
How to use vitamin E
Vitamin E is not a single vitamin, but rather a group of fat-soluble vitamins with antioxidant effects.
Antioxidants fight free radicals, which are electrons that have broken off from an atom. Free radicals have been linked to a wide range of health conditions, from cancer to premature aging.
Vitamin E oil is derived from vitamin E and can be applied directly to the skin, or added to lotions, creams, and gels. It is available for purchase in many health food stores and online. Many supporters of vitamin E oil argue that it is a potent antioxidant, but research on its benefits is mixed.
Vitamin E oil: The basics
Vitamin E oil is applied topically to the skin.
Vitamin E oil is distinct from vitamin E supplements because it is applied directly to the skin. Concentrations vary between manufacturers, and some users simply pop open vitamin E capsules and put the contents on their skin.
Vitamin E oil is an ingredient in many skincare products; especially those that claim to have anti-aging benefits.
Vitamin E supplements may prevent coronary heart disease, support immune function, prevent inflammation, promote eye health, and lower the risk of cancer. However, the research on these benefits is varied, and vitamin E supplementation is not right for everyone.
Vitamin E oil's benefits are primarily cosmetic and have limited scientific support. Before using vitamin E oil, consult a doctor or skin care expert.
Ten potential benefits
Vitamin E oil's potential benefits derive from two key features: its antioxidant properties, which could fight inflammation and slow the effects of free radicals, and its moisturizing properties.
Some purported benefits of vitamin E oil include:
Moisturizing skin
Vitamin E is found in many moisturizers, and the oil may be used as a moisturizer to prevent or treat dry, flaking skin.
Wound healing
Some research suggests that vitamin E supplements may promote wound healing. It is possible that topical vitamin E oil might offer similar benefits, but there is little research on the subject.
Skin cancer prevention
A 2013 study found that mice given supplements containing vitamin E were less likely to develop skin cancer, even when exposed to large quantities of ultraviolet light. These results prompted some supporters of vitamin E oil and supplements to claim that it can prevent skin cancer.
However, studies on humans have not found any skin cancer prevention benefits associated with vitamin E.
Reducing skin itching
Vitamin E may help to reduce itchy skin and ease eczema.
Vitamin E cannot treat allergic reactions, infections, and other issues that cause skin itching.
Because it moisturizes the skin, however, it may offer temporary relief from itching caused by dry skin.
Keeping skin well moisturised may help to prevent dry skin, and prevent symptoms such as itchiness. Any kind of oil safe for skin may offer these benefits.
Eczema
Vitamin E may alleviate the dryness, itching, and flaking associated with eczema, or atopic dermatitis.
One study found that oral vitamin E supplements could produce significant improvements in eczema symptoms. Though vitamin E oil has not been well-studied in the treatment of eczema, it may increase the effectiveness of topical moisturizers.
Psoriasis
At least one study has linked topical vitamin E to a reduction in psoriasis symptoms. Even better, the study showed that there were no serious side effects.
However, the effects of vitamin E on psoriasis were not as good as most readily available treatments. Vitamin E oil might be a good option for people who want to avoid prescription remedies and who have mild psoriasis.
Preventing or minimizing the appearance of scars
Folk wisdom has long suggested that vitamin E, applied to the skin, taken as a supplement, or both, might treat scars, or prevent them from forming in the first place. But research does not support this claim and has found no association between vitamin E use and scar prevention.
In one older study from 1999, almost one-third of participants had an allergic reaction to topical vitamin E, suggesting the oil is more likely to make scarring worse rather than prevent it.
A more recent literature review found that evidence about whether vitamin E improved or worsened scarring was inconclusive.
Research does suggest that well-moisturized skin is less likely to scar. So for people who do not have an allergic reaction to vitamin E, using it as a moisturizer while the wound heals may offer some benefits.
Skin: How it works
What exactly is skin, what does it do, and how does it work? Click here to find out more.
Read now
Preventing or treating fine lines and wrinkles
Dry skin tends to look more wrinkled than well-moisturized skin. The moisturizing benefits of vitamin E oil may help the skin look more youthful and less wrinkled.
Claims that vitamin E prevents or treats wrinkles, however, are unsupported by scientific evidence. The best strategy for preventing wrinkles is to avoid direct sunlight and to wear a quality sunscreen.
Sunburn prevention
Vitamin E may help to reduce the risk of sunburn.
Limited research suggests that vitamin E can prevent or reduce the formation of sunburns.
Because vitamin E oil can moisturize and soothe dry, flaky skin, it may help to relieve the burning and itching that result from a sunburn.
However, wearing sunscreen and avoiding direct sun exposure remain the best strategies for protecting the skin.
Promoting nail health
Research suggests that vitamin E supplementation can prevent yellow nail syndrome, which causes peeling, cracked, and yellowing nails.
Vitamin E oil's moisturizing benefits may also support nail health by preventing cracked cuticles and dry skin around the nail bed.
Risks and considerations
The biggest risk associated with vitamin E use is an allergic reaction. Vitamin E can irritate the skin, making skin problems worse. People with a history of allergic reactions should avoid vitamin E, or should do a patch test on a small area of skin first.
Because vitamin E oil is a supplement and a beauty product, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) do not regulate it. This may mean that two vitamin E oils might have radically different concentrations and produce different effects in the same person.
Many vitamin E products contain additional ingredients. It is important to read the label and consult a doctor if uncertain about the product's safety.
How to use vitamin E
Vitamin E oil and products containing it are available to purchase online and in stores.
Before using vitamin E oil, do a patch test. Apply a small dab of the oil to an area that is not highly visible, such as the back of the knee or behind the ear. Wait 24-48 hours. If no reaction develops, it is probably safe to use.
Do a patch test if using vitamin E on a wound. Apply to a small portion of the wound first and wait 24-48 hours.
Begin with a low concentration of vitamin E oil, and apply a thin layer over the affected area. Over several days, gradually increase the amount until reaching the levels recommended on the package. Read the label carefully and avoid exceeding the recommended dosage.
For even greater benefits, try adding a few drops of vitamin E oil to a thick moisturizing cream. This enhances the cream's moisturizing benefits and helps buffer any potential irritation.
Vitamin E oil is available for purchase online.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
How do I get rid of my dry hands? Dry hands can be uncomfortable and sometimes may crack or bleed. Learn about some of the most effective home remedies for dry hands here. Read now
What can you do to make your nails grow faster? A look at how to make your nails grow faster. Included is detail on the way that diet can impact nail health, and the home remedies to promote nail growth. Although many remedies do not typically make the nails grow faster, they can prevent the nails from breaking, helping them look healthier and grow longer. Read now
What are the different types of psoriasis? Learn about different types of psoriasis in their mild to moderate forms. We include information on symptoms and treatment options for different types. Read now
Dry skin: Seven home remedies There are a range of home remedies for dry skin available, including coconut and other oils, oatmeal, and honey. Which ones are effective and how should you use them? Also, we give you some tips on preventing dry skin, as well as advice about when to see a doctor. Find out more. Read now
Eczema elimination diet and foods to eat Eczema is linked to inflammation in the body, so eating an anti-inflammatory diet may help reduce symptoms. Learn about which foods to eliminate. Read now
email email
print
share share
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Dermatology Nutrition / Diet
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Fri 30 June 2017.
Visit our Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Baumann, L. S., & Spencer, J. (1999, April). The effects of topical vitamin E on cosmetic appearance of scars [Abstract]. Dermatologic Surgery, 25(4), 311-315. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10417589
Burns, E. M., Tober, K. L., Riggenbach, J. A., Kusewitt, D. F., Young, G. S., & Oberyszyn, T. M. (2013, May 14). Differential effects of topical vitamin E and C E Ferulic® treatments on ultraviolet light B-induced cutaneous tumor development in Skh-1 mice. PLoS One, 8(5). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3653797/
Jaffary, F., Faghihi, G., Mokhtarian, A., & Hosseini, S. M. (2015, November). Effects of oral vitamin E on treatment of atopic dermatitis: A randomized controlled trial. Journal of Research in Medical Sciences, 20(11), 1053-1057. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4755091/
Keen, M. A., & Hassan, I. (2016, July-August). Vitamin E in dermatology. Indian Dermatology Online Journal, 7(4), 311-315. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27559512
Lobo, V., Patil, A., Phatak, A., & Chandra, N. (2010, July). Free radicals, antioxidants and functional foods: Impact on human health. Pharmacognosy Reviews, 4(8), 118. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22228951
Pereira, G. G., Detoni, C. B., Balducci, A. G., Rondelli, V., Colombo, P., Guterres, S. S., … Sonvico, F. (2016, February 15). Hyaluronate nanoparticles included in polymer films for the prolonged release of vitamin E for the management of skin wounds. European Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 83, 203-211. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0928098716300021?via%3Dihub
Proper wound care: How to minimize a scar. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/skin-hair-nails/injured-skin/wound-care
Should anyone take vitamin E? (2014, January 24). Retrieved from http://www.berkeleywellness.com/supplements/vitamins/article/should-anyone-still-take-vitamin-e
Tanaydin, V., Conings, J., Malyar, M., van der Hulst, R., van der Lei, B. (2016, March 14). The role of vitamin E in scar management: A systematic review. Aesthetic Surgery Journal, 36(8), 959-965. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/asj/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/asj/sjw046
Vitamin E. Fact sheet for health professionals. (2016, November 3). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminE-HealthProfessional/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Villines, Zawn. "Ten benefits of vitamin E oil." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 30 Jun. 2017. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318168.php>
APA
Villines, Z. (2017, June 30). "Ten benefits of vitamin E oil." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318168.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Could this brain stimulation technique reverse memory decline?
New research examines the effect of a noninvasive brain stimulation technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation on age-related memory decline.
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
Popular in: Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Benefits of black seed oil
How to relieve itching
How marijuana affects the body
Hemp oil benefits list
How do you boost testosterone naturally?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318168.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);