memory processing – Have a Look
Skip to content
Have a Look
Menu
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Tag: memory processing
Posted on August 10, 2018 October 8, 2018
What’s L-theanine? Let us understand what it can do for us
L- theanine is the neurologically active compound present completely in green tea plant (called Camellia sinensis or other Camellia species) with an exception of edible mushroom (bay boletes). It is one main component that is responsible for an exotic savory taste in green tea called “umami.” Within 30 minutes of the consumption, L-theanine compound crosses your blood-brain barrier, and where it looks to smooth out your brain waves, and without flattening it as visualized on the EEG as well as improving the cognition in the interesting ways.
Here we will look what is L theanine good for? It is shown to improve attention and memory.
The consumption of green tea appeared to improve the performance on the test of memory by increasing the connectivity between the frontal and the parietal brain areas during the working memory processing. It is one amazing discovery because such activity in frontal area of your brain is correlated to the executive function, whereas parietal area handles the sensory input. It has same chemical structure of glutamate that is the neurotransmitter linked to memory.
L-theanine reduces or slows the cognitive decline.
Due to the antagonistic effects on the glutamate receptors or how it affects the cognition, L-theanine appears to have the neuroprotective & cognitive-improving abilities. The researchers have observed that the elderly people who ever consumed powder of green tea that is enriched with theanine had reduced their cognitive decline, than placebo group. Some preliminary studies also show the assurance for L-theanine that can prevent and treat the Alzheimer’s disease and it is very important to look at the l theanine dosage for anxiety as well.
L-theanine properties
L-theanine properties are summed up as the relaxing agent without any sedation, and implicated for reducing perception of anxiety, stress and improving attention. Whereas L-theanine doesn’t seem to induce sleep, but can help with the sleep though its potency recommends it might not be the good first line of treatment.
L-Theanine is highly relaxing and not sedating acid, which is synergistic with the stimulants like caffeine since it will ‘take an edge off’. It’s quite effective in standard supplemental dose, and though it is attained through the diet that is high in the green tea ingestion, which is the dietary source for L-Theanine
There’re some health advantages linked with black and green tea ingestion and thought to be highly reflective of Theanine content instead green tea catechins and theaflavins, and it is related to the cardiovascular health and cognitive benefits.
Proudly powered by WordPress