At-Home Workouts Ease Osteoarthritis Pain - Orthopedics, Spine & Sports Medicine Orthopedics, Spine & Sports Medicine
Advancing Your Health Blog
Orthopedics, Spine & Sports Medicine
What's New
About
Live Chat
Past Chats
Posting Policy
All Blogs
At-Home Workouts Ease Osteoarthritis Pain
April 19, 2012, 1:52 pm By Emory Orthopaedics & Spine Center
If you have osteoarthritis, you already know that exercise can help reduce pain and improve mobility. But did you know that working out at home with a DVD may bring even more relief?
According to a study presented at the 2012 Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS), 107 people with osteoarthritis in the knee were randomized to either a DVD-based exercise group or a control group. The DVD group received a DVD-based exercise program along with verbal and hands-on exercise instructions for the first four to eight weeks. Participants in the DVD group reportedly exercised 5.3, 5.0, and 3.8 times per week at three-, six-, and 12-month intervals and had significantly greater improvement in pain and physical function than those in the control group.
While exercise did not make a significant difference in the progression of osteoarthritis, the reduction of pain and mobility among the DVD group speaks to the benefits of adding a video-based home exercise program to an existing exercise regimen.
When you exercise regularly, you strengthen the muscles around the arthritic joint, which helps decrease the pain of osteoarthritis and improve function. We suggest you do whatever keeps you on track to exercise regularly, whether it’s a video-based exercise program or exercising with a friend. But first, we recommend that you have an exercise program designed specifically for you by a physical therapist who understands osteoarthritis, to avoid injuries from overdoing it or doing the wrong exercises. The physical therapists here at the Emory Orthopaedics & Spine Center have the experience and the expertise to develop an exercise plan that meets your unique needs and helps bring relief from osteoarthritis pain.
Do you have osteoarthritis? Has a regular home-based exercise program helped ease your pain? We welcome your questions and feedback in the comments section below.
Related Resources:
Why are Women Over 50 More Likely To Suffer from Knee Pain?
Can Osteoarthritis be Prevented?
Tags: arthritis, at-home workouts, exercise, knee injury, knee osteoarthritis, knee pain, osteoarthritis
Comments are closed.
Blogroll
Post Categories
Post Categories Select Category Achilles injuries ACL Ankle Pain arthritis Athletic Injuries Athletic Injury Awards Back Pain Bone Health Chat Concussions Cycling Elbow Pain EUOSH exercise Foot Injury GA Tech Hand Pain Head Pain Heart health Hip Pain Injury Prevention joint replacement Knee Injuries Knee pain Minimally Invasive Surgery Movement Disorders Neck Pain news Nutrition Orthopedic Surgery Orthopedic Trauma Osteoarthritis Partnerships Patient Story pediatric orthopedics Physical Therapy Physicians Prevention Rotator Cuff Running Sarcoma Shoulder Injuries Spine Pain Spine Surgery Sports Medicine Surgery Tennis Medicine Uncategorized Video Welcome Women’s Health Wrist Pain
Click here to become a patient »
Tags
ACL ACL injury ACL surgery ACL tear arthritis athletic injury back pain concussion Concussions concussion symptoms Emory Orthopaedics emory orthopaedics and spine center Emory Orthopedics Center Emory Spine Center Emory Sports Medicine emory sports medicine center exercise Hip Pain hip replacement hip replacement surgery hip surgery injuries injury injury prevention Knee Injuries knee injury knee pain live chat neck pain orthopedics Orthopedic Surgery osteoarthritis prevention running running injuries running training scoliosis spinal stenosis Spine Pain spine surgery sports injuries sports injury sports medicine surgery young athletes
Give yourself a healthy gift.
Register to receive Emory's e-newsletter, Emory Health Source.
Privacy Policy © Emory Healthcare 2019 - All Rights Reserved
This Web site is provided as a courtesy to those interested in Emory Healthcare and does not constitute medical advice and does not create any physician/patient relationship. Also, Emory Healthcare does not endorse or recommend any specific commercial product or service. This Web site is provided solely for personal and private use of individuals accessing this information, and no part of it may be used for any other purpose.