Pregnancy and Kids: Nutrition in pregnancy
Pregnancy and Kids
Doctorina
Pages
Beauty and Fitness
Health
Healthy Food
Emotions and Lifestyle
Pregnancy and Kids
Sunday, April 15, 2012
Nutrition in pregnancy
To make your baby is born healthy need at least three times a day to eat properly. Proper nutrition during pregnancy your baby that you can provide the most healthy way to zpocne life. If you follow the recommendations on healthy eating, you can reduce the risk of congenital anomalies, to provide better conditions for the development of the fetal brain, such id increase the likelihood that they will have optimal weight babies in childbirth. This also increases the chances that your child be healthier when they grow up.
Proper nutrition can influence a safe pregnancy, you can reduce symptoms such as nausea, fatigue, constipation, etc..
When thinking about how you can eat, keep in mind that it is possible to change those habits, and even where you've been following for years, and that after a while you will be easier to apply the prescribed diet. Every bit counts. You only have nine months to provide meals and snacks your baby a good start in life. Although the food we eat should be nutritious, and an occasional bite may need to be taken for pleasure. Carefully choose your calories, giving preference to quality food. Perhaps the obvious and to the unjust and that 200 calories does donuts in the same nutritional value as 200 calories in the cake with bran cereal.
The fetus can not thrive without food. He needs regular meals at regular intervals, so if you are not hungry and your baby is. Be very careful not to starve in pregnancy. Frequent meals are actually the best way to ensure proper nutrition baby. Whenever you can, choose foods that contain more nutrients such as: yogurt meets the needs for calcium and protein, broccoli meets the needs for vitamin C and calcium
Whenever there is an inadequate calorie intake, can metabolize proteins as an energy source, so that they lose their primary development role. Adequate caloric intake in pregnancy is very important. These studies have shown pregnant women in countries of low socioeconomic status. In cases of insufficient caloric intake due to the use of protein for energy purposes was emerging as the children of low weight (2500 grams or less).
Baseline protein intake in pregnancy is used to reperaciju and tissue growth of the fetus, placenta, uterus, breast.During the last 6 months of pregnancy, about 1 kg of protein is deposited in quantities of 5-6 g per day. It is believed that protein needs about 0.9 grams per day for women of average weight, while the intake of 30 grams of protein daily needs during pregnancy. Preferably the proteins are the products of animal origin such as meat, eggs, cheese, fish, because these foods have the optimal amount of amino acids. Intake of minerals is also very important in pregnancy and the needs are accurately identified the amount of certain minerals that should be brought into the pregnancy. There is good evidence that the introduction of iron has a benefit when given to pregnant women.
Expectant mothers, in larger quantities than usual, it is iron. It is considered that the daily need for iron in pregnancy 7 mg. Taking larger amounts will lead to higher caloric intake. Due to the unavailability of iron in the normal diet is advised during pregnancy supplements containing iron preparations.
The mother retains about 30 grams of calcium during pregnancy, whose amount is mostly deposited in fetal tissues. The amount of calcium is about 2, 5% of total maternal calcium of which the largest part of the bone, and are easily mobilized for fetal growth. It is considered that sufficient amounts of calcium found in cow's milk.
Amounts of inorganic phosphorus in the plasma of pregnant women do not differ from those found in women outside of pregnancy.
Severe deficiency of zinc can lead to poor appetite, suboptimal growth, and poor wound healing. Severe zinc deficiency can lead to hypogonadism, and skin lesions. The concentration of zinc in plasma is about 1% of zinc.It is believed that zinc supplementation during pregnancy is not required.
The use of iodized salt in pregnancy is recommended. On the other hand the introduction of large quantities of iodine can lead to depression tiny gland function.
The role of magnesium in pregnancy has not yet been fully explored. In recent studies it is considered that magnesium plays a role in preventing birth prevremnih.
When it comes to sodium intake in pregnancy should be careful because its concentration is very little fall so you should be careful with the salt intake of food.
The role of vitamin
There are numerous statements concerning the importance of vitamins in the successful reproduction. Some vitamins and minerals during pregnancy can not be compensated by food which is why it is necessary to take supplements of the same preparations.
Folic acid - the obvious increased need for maternal folic acid in pregnancy. It is considered that may affect the prevention of fetal malformations as well as participate in suplemenatciji iron.
Vitamin B12 - induces many biochemical changes in the body so it is therefore necessary to both pregnancy and beyond.
Vitamin B6 - can suplementirati in pregnancy for at least 2, 6 mg per day during pregnancy and lactation.
Vitamin C - recommended value of vitamin C during pregnancy are about 80 mg per day or one-third more than in women who are not pregnant. Levels of vitamin C in plasma during pregnancy are falling, while the umbilical cord fetal growth. But taking large amounts of vitamin C (over 1 gram) can be harmful, and can interfere with vitamin B 12
General guidelines for nutrition in pregnancy vital statistics would be as follows:
That pregnant women eat what they want in the quantities they want, but that their body weight in pregnancy should not be increased more than 12 kg.
In each control in pregnancy should inspect the body weight and Dependance that prescribe the appropriate diet.
Overwrite suplemetaciju iron tablets containing 30-60 mg per day.
Pregnant women should be instructed that inadequate and uncontrolled supplementation of trace elements and vitamins during pregnancy can have adverse effects on fetal growth and development so it is important to take medicines that contain vitamins and minerals mentioned in exactly the right concentration.
Objavio/la mamy u 11:07 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Oznake: baby, birth, feeding, healthy, nutrition, Nutrition in pregnancy, pregnancy, proper, vitamin
No comments:
Post a Comment
Note: Only a member of this blog may post a comment.
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Translate
BEAUTY
Loading...
HEALTHY DIET
Loading...
YOUR HEALTH
Loading...
HAPPY PREGNANCY
Loading...
HEALTHY CHILD
Loading...
LOVE, FAMILY, JOB
Loading...
HAPPY LIFE
Loading...
HEALTHY LUNGS
Loading...
YOUR HEART
Loading...
HEALTHY LIVER
Loading...
KIDNEY DISEASE
Loading...
Follow me
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Follow by Email
Followers
Search
POPULAR
HAPPY LIFE
Find positive friends, mentors and co-workers
BEAUTY
Fashion for today
YOUR HEALTH
What are ovarian cysts?
HEALTHY DIET
50 healthy essentials you must eat
HEALTHY LUNGS
The Difference between Viral and Bacterial Bronchitis
HEALTHY CHILD
WHAT TO DO WHEN YOUR KIDS CRY?
KIDNEY DISEASE
Natural remedies for urinary tract infections
MY HOME
Yellow color stimulates the brain
LOVE, FAMILY, JOB
Why coffee 3 ​​in 1 is not good for you?
HEALTHY LIVER
The best foods for a healthy liver
YOUR HEART
How to save your heart?
Total Pageviews
VISITORS
<a href=&quot;http://feedjit.com/&quot; _fcksavedurl="&quot;http://feedjit.com/&quot;" _fcksavedurl=&quot;&quot;http://feedjit.com/&quot;&quot; _fcksavedurl=&quot;http://feedjit.com/&quot;>Feedjit Live Blog Stats</a>
Blog is not intended for commercial purposes, I use it exclusively for personal training. Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.
Privacy Policy and TOS
Privacy Policy for http://happyandhealthypregnancy.blogspot.com/
The privacy of our visitors to http://happyandhealthypregnancy.blogspot.com/ is important to us.
At this blog we recognize that privacy of your personal information is important. Here is information on what types of personal information we receive and collect when you use and visit this blog, and how we safeguard your information. We never sell your personal information to third parties.
Log Files
As with most other websites, we collect and use the data contained in log files. The information in the log files include your IP (internet protocol) address, your ISP (internet service provider, such as AOL or Shaw Cable), the browser you used to visit our site (such as Internet Explorer or Firefox), the time you visited our site and which pages you visited throughout our site.
Cookies and Web Beacons
We do use cookies to store information, such as your personal preferences when you visit our site. This could include only showing you a popup once in your visit, or the ability to login to some of our features, such as forums.
We also use third party advertisements http://happyandhealthypregnancy.blogspot.com/ to support our site. Some of these advertisers may use technology such as cookies and web beacons when they advertise on our site, which will also send these advertisers (such as Google through the Google AdSense program) information including your IP address, your ISP , the browser you used to visit our site, and in some cases, whether you have Flash installed. This is generally used for geotargeting purposes (showing New York real estate ads to someone in New York, for example) or showing certain ads based on specific sites visited (such as showing cooking ads to someone who frequents cooking sites).
You can chose to disable or selectively turn off our cookies or third-party cookies in your browser settings, or by managing your security preferences. However, this can affect how you are able to interact with our site as well as other websites.
Personal Data
We do collect data in the form of email address, names, and other personal data using the Disqus commenting System. Remember that we do not have any authority over third party plugins installed in our website. Please read the privacy policy of the respective third party plugins.
Your personal data are safe with us. We don't disclose any of your personal information to any third party under any circumstances. We believe our reader's privacy is the most important on our site.
Disclaimer
Blog http://happyandhealthypregnancy.blogspot.com/ does not accept any liability for damages and failures resulting from the use of the information contained. All posts are using on their own responsibility and risk. About questions, suggestions or information from posts consult an expert doctor.
Statement of copyright infringement
Some photos on the site http://happyandhealthypregnancy.blogspot.com/ are taken with free resources, share portal and used good faith ( Fair use ). Please contact us if you feel that a photo belongs to the area of copyright infringement and as soon as possible will be removed from the interface .