Achilles Tendonitis Treatment
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
SEND ME DISCOUNTS SIGN UP | CUSTOMER SERVICE: 1800 272 237
$11 Flat Rate Shipping On All Orders
My Account
Register
Log In
Log Out
Find the Right Brace:
Menu Search
Contact Us Customer Service Account
Cart
Checkout
View Shopping Cart
Shop By Body Part
Shop Our Solutions
About Us
Expert Advice
Search:
Search
Shop By Body Part
Ankle
Knee
Back
Neck
Wrist
Shoulder
Foot
Elbow
Leg
Thumb
Sale
Shop Our Solutions
Shop by Sport
Shop by Injury
Therapy Products
Our Brands
Replacement Parts
About Us
About Better Braces
Customer Care
Shipping & Rates
Returns
Contact Us
Expert Advice
Customer Service
Contact Us
Home /
Achilles Tendonitis
. This page hopes to outline and help you understand the before, during and after process of Achilles tendonitis treatment.
Injury prevention (BEFORE):
Although it’s impossible to completely avoid injury, it is possible to condition your body to be able to withstand unexpected movement and/or shock to your tendons. The best way to treat any sport related injury or common pains such as tendonitis is to actually prepare your body for the inevitable fact that injuries will occur when you least expect it.
Keep physically active – Whether you play sports professionally, socially, or not at all, moving and exercising the minimum requirement every week will ensure that your body is functioning sufficiently for everyday activities.
It may sound silly, but running for the bus or train first thing in the morning will cause a significant amount of stress on your heels and muscles surrounding your Achilles tendon – doing a lot more damage if you are not exercising regularly. While your legs and feet may feel fine while you’re running, the after effects of a short burst of such a high impact activity are what contribute heavily towards Achilles tendonitis and other injuries.
Routine daily stretches are highly important whether you play sports or not:
There’s more to stretching than just loosening and warming up muscles.
Stretching daily will maintain flexibility and increase the range of motion in your joints and muscle – range of motion and muscle stability are crucial to decreasing susceptibility to tendonitis.
Shoe support/fit is something that is overlooked by many:
Wearing the wrong kind of shoes can have dramatic effects when worn for the wrong situation or for prolonged periods of time.
Having the right support for your foot and your arch is important as it relieves stress off your feet trying to compensate for the lack of support.
Conditioning and strengthening
Similar to stretching; conditioning and strengthening have the effect of relieving the tendon by giving the surrounding muscles more stability and control.
Braces and other supportive gear
Braces such as The Aircast Airheel Brace are a great way of helping prevent Achilles tendonitis by compressing and enhancing the blood flow in the foot and ankle area.
If you know you are going to be participating in sports, it’s important to warm up your calf and Achilles tendon, easing into the movements and actions you’re most likely to perform.
And finally, after warming your muscles, stretch!
Treating an injured Achilles (DURING):
If you have just suffered from an injury relating to Achilles tendonitis, you can:
REMEMBER R.I.C.E – R.I.C.E is not just applicable to Achilles tendonitis, it is used for almost all serious sporting injuries.
Rest
Keep weight off the tendon.
Rest gives the tendon time to recouperate and heal itself.
Use cryotherapy (ice) on the affected area:
Applying ice directly after exercise or an injury will help reduce pain and swelling.
Compress the Achilles
As stated above, products like the “Aircast Airheel” will help with support and stability for the Achilles.
Compression increases blood flow, meaning faster recovery time.
Elevating the injured area above resting heart rate
Reducing swelling
Anti-inflammatory medication
Prescribed by a doctor or bought over the counter.
Other medical advice prescribed by doctor
Surgery
Steroid cortisone shots
Moderate exercise/stretching
Continue normal exercise and stretching but at a much slower and easier rate; exercises and stretches should only be done in this case to maintain range of motion and movement in the joints and tendon.
Treatments AFTER an injury:
If all else fails and you still manage to incur Achilles tendonitis, treating it will depend on the severity of the injury.
NOTE: it’s important that you don’t treat yourself based on self-diagnosis, seek proper medical advice from your local doctor or physiotherapist first.
If R.I.C.E does not help with the initial injury, it is possible you have sustained a Stage 2 or 3 injury that requires more attention, and possibly rehabilitation.
In the case of rehabilitation, there are a number of techniques physiotherapists’ may apply accordingly:
Taping
Bracing
Advanced stretches and exercises
Massage
Prescribe special insoles for your shoes
Key points for Achilles Tendonitis
By taking the right precautionary methods during and after sports, you can reduce your risk of a ‘sudden injury’ happening.
Remember tendonitis is brought on by constant overuse. Resting and muscle recovery is extremely important.
On the other hand if your lifestyle demands a significant amount of physical exercise and excessive training you can look to other alternatives such as braces that provide stability and support for your Achilles over long periods of time and a range of different activities. Click HERE to find the right brace for YOU.
Newsletter
STAY CONNECTED Sign up for the Better Braces Newsletter
SIGN UP
Braces & Support
Ankle
Knee
Back Braces
Head & Neck
Wrist
Shoulder
Foot
Elbow
Leg Supports
Thumb Supports
Walking Boots
Parts & Accessories
DonJoy Replacement Parts
DonJoy Accessories
Aircast Parts
Compex Parts
ProCare Parts
Therapy Products
Hot & Cold Therapy
Muscle Stimulators
Brands
DonJoy
Aircast
Procare
Chattanooga
Compex
Dr Comfort
Learn More
Expert Advice
Shop By Injury
Shop By Sport
Customer Service
My Account
View Cart
About Us
Customer Care
Shipping & Rates
Returns
Contact Us
Terms & Conditions
Copyright © 2019 BetterBraces.com.au
Please wait...
Continue Shopping Go to Cart
Continue Shopping Go to Cart
X Brace Advisor Need Help?