Selenium Foods, Selenium Benefits + Selenium Recipes - Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
Health
Allergies
Brain Health
Cancer
Children’s Health
Diabetes
Gut Health
Heart Health
Hormones
Mental Health
Skin Health
Symptoms
Treatments
Weight Loss
Nutrition
Fruit
Grains
Herbs & Spices
Mushrooms
Probiotics
Protein
Supplements
Vegetables
Vitamins & Minerals
Diets
Fasting
Gluten-Free
Low-Carb
Ketogenic
Mediterranean Diet
Paleo
Plant-Based
Vegan
Vegetarian
Recipes
Gluten-Free
Ketogenic
Low-Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Essential Oils
DIY Remedies
Body Care
Cleaning
Hair Care
Oral Health
Skin and Beauty
Fitness
Anatomy
Injury & Rehab
News & Tips
Running
Workouts
Yoga
Shop
Top Sellers
Supplements
Essential Oils
View All
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Dr. Axe > Nutrition > Vitamins & Minerals
Fact Checked
×
This Dr. Axe content is medically reviewed or fact checked to ensure factually accurate information.
With strict editorial sourcing guidelines, we only link to academic research institutions, reputable media sites and, when research is available, medically peer-reviewed studies. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to these studies.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
×
This article is based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by our trained editorial staff. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to medically peer-reviewed studies.
Our team includes licensed nutritionists and dietitians, certified health education specialists, as well as certified strength and conditioning specialists, personal trainers and corrective exercise specialists. Our team aims to be not only thorough with its research, but also objective and unbiased.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
Top 15 High Selenium Foods & Their Benefits
By Annie Price, CHHC
June 7, 2018
Dr. Axe on Facebook 253 Dr. Axe on Twitter 12 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 5 Share on Email Print Article
Selenium is an essential nutrient for humans, which means we all should be getting it in our diets every day through the consumption of selenium foods. That is certainly a fact, and when you toss in all the wonderful selenium benefits for health, it’s a nutrient you don’t want to miss out on.
What is selenium? It is a trace mineral that works in conjunction with vitamin E to help prevent oxidative damage in the body. Another key selenium function? It also helps iodine regulate metabolism, and it helps recycle vitamin C in the body, improving overall cellular protection. Selenium is a key aspect of a hypothyroidism diet as well because it helps to balance hormone levels.
It works as powerful antioxidant and is required for your body to create glutathione, your body’s master antioxidant. For this reason, consuming foods high in selenium can support detoxification and take stress off of organs like the liver and thyroid. Selenium foods are tasty as well, making it easy to meet your selenium needs on a daily basis. Read on to learn all about selenium foods and their benefits.
What Is Selenium? Selenium’s Role in the Body
Selenium (Se) is a naturally occurring trace element or mineral found in many foods and also available as a selenium supplement. The Se element has an atomic number of 34 and is considered a nonmetal.
In nature, selenium is most commonly found as sodium selenite, its inorganic form. In foods, it’s found in its organic form, selenomethionine.
Selenium is naturally found in soil. In the United States, soils in the Central Northern states are especially high in selenium. (1) The selenium in soil is transported into plants as they grow through special membranes within their roots. This is why plants can be such great sources of selenium in the diet.
Selenium is believed to be present in the form of the amino acid selenocysteine within at least 25 proteins called selenoproteins. This is highly significant to human health since selenoproteins play critical roles in thyroid metabolism, reproduction, DNA synthesis and immune response. (2, 3)
You may be wondering how much selenium do I need per day? Needs vary depending on your age and health status. For adults and children four years of age and older, the current daily recommendation is 55 micrograms per day. For pregnant and breastfeeding women, the recommendation is 70 micrograms per day. (4)
Top 15 High Selenium Foods
What foods have selenium? There are a lot of healthy and delicious selenium-rich foods that come with selenium foods benefits, of course! I’m about to tell you some of the most impressive foods in terms of selenium content.
Below is a list of high selenium foods, including:
Brazil nuts
Sunflower seeds
Pinto Beans
Halibut
Sardines
Grass-fed beef
Skipjack tuna
Wild-caught salmon
Beef Liver
Oats
Navy beans
Chicken
Turkey
Eggs
Spinach
1) Brazil nuts: 1 kernel (5 grams): 95.9 micrograms (over 100 percent DV)
Brazil nuts’ selenium content is amazing, isn’t it? When it comes to selenium foods for vegetarians and selenium foods vegan can eat, Brazil nuts are without a doubt a top choice. It only takes one or two (depending on their size) a day to meet most people’s daily selenium needs.
As No. 1 on this list, it’s no surprise that Brazil nuts are also No. 2 on the top healthiest nuts list. A small clinical study published in 2013 in the Journal of Nutrition and Metabolism found that eating a single serving of Brazil nuts can lower LDL (“bad” cholesterol) and raise HDL (“good cholesterol) in healthy subjects. (5)
2) Sunflower seeds: 1 cup: 74 micrograms: (over 100 percent DV)
Another plant-based source of selenium is sunflower seeds, which are great to snack on by themselves. You can also add to them to salads, homemade veggie burgers, meatballs and more.
3) Pinto beans, raw: 1 cup: 53.8 micrograms (77 percent DV)
In addition to selenium, pinto beans are very high in folate, manganese, thiamine, copper and magnesium. It’s always best to sprout beans before cooking them. For more info on that, check out my sprout guide.
4) Halibut, cooked: 3 ounces: 47 micrograms (67 percent DV)
There are pros and cons of halibut fish, but the fact that this fish is a selenium-rich seafood option is definitely a pro.
5) Sardines: 3 ounces: 45 micrograms (64 percent DV)
Sardines are a great source of selenium as well as essential fatty acids, which are known for their anti-inflammatory benefits. Essential fatty acids also play an important role in the body when it come to cell signaling, immunity, mood and brain health.
6) Grass-fed beef: one lean strip: 45.1 micrograms (64 percent DV)
Grass-fed beef is a food rich in selenium and zinc as well as many other vital nutrients. It’s also a great source of CLA or conjugated linoleic acid.
7) Skipjack tuna, cooked: 3 ounces: 39.8 micrograms (57 percent DV) (6)
When buying tuna, look for skipjack tuna caught through Pacific troll or pole and line methods to get the lowest mercury option. (7)
8) Wild-caught salmon, cooked: 3 ounces: 35.2 micrograms (50 percent DV)
This is one of my favorite fish to eat because salmon nutrition makes it one of healthiest foods on the planet (of course, just make sure it’s wild-caught). This a seafood that can really encourage whole body wellness.
9) Beef liver: 3 ounces: 30.1 micrograms (42 percent DV)
Is liver good for you? If you can learn to enjoy (or mask) the taste, many people love beef liver for its high nutrient content.
1o) Oats, old-fashioned, not fortified: 1 cup: 23.4 micrograms (33 percent DV)
Oats contain soluble fiber which is known to help lower LDL cholesterol also known as “bad” cholesterol. (8)
11) Navy beans, raw: 1 cup: 22.9 micrograms (33 percent DV) (9)
Loved by many vegetarians and vegans as an excellent plant-based source of protein, navy beans also contain an impressive amount of folate, manganese and selenium.
12) Chicken: 3 ounces: 22 micrograms (31 percent DV) (10)
Always opt for organic free-range chicken to get the healthiest version of this high protein and selenium source.
13) Turkey, boneless: 3 ounces: 19.2 micrograms (27 percent DV)
Don’t forget about turkey until next Thanksgiving. This bird is an excellent protein-rich source of selenium as well as the calm-inducing amino acid known as tryptophan.
14) Eggs: 1 large: 15 micrograms (21 percent DV)
When it comes to foods high in selenium and iodine, eggs definitely make the list. I highly recommend organic eggs produced by free-range hens.
15) Spinach: 1 cup: 11 micrograms (16 percent DV) (11)
Spinach is known for its impressively high vitamin K content, but it’s also a great vegetarian- and vegan-approved source of selenium and many other essential nutrients.
I recommend consume two to three of these selenium foods daily to improve detoxification, immunity and thyroid function.
Top Health Benefits of Selenium Foods
Eating high selenium foods can provide you with the wide ranging health benefits of this vital mineral. Selenium benefits are numerous, and these are just some of the most impressive ones below.
1. Improved Thyroid Health
Selenium plays a role in maintaining thyroid health since it works together with iodine. In fact, the thyroid is the organ in our bodies with the largest content of selenium. It’s needed to produce a critical thyroid hormone called T3, which regulates metabolism.
Selenium deficiency is known to lower the synthesis of thyroid hormones, as it decreases the function of selenoproteins (in particular iodothyronine deiodinases), which are responsible for the conversion of T4 to T3. (11)
For patients struggling with Hashimoto’s disease, increasing selenium intake has been shown to decreases anti-thyroid antibody levels and improve the structure of the thyroid gland. Selenium has also shown itself to be helpful during pregnancy-related thyroid problems like postpartum thyroiditis as well as Graves’ disease. (12)
2. Cancer Prevention
There is a strong correlation between levels of selenium in the blood and a reduced risk of several types of cancer. Selenium may help with DNA repair or may prevent cancer cells from replicating.
According to a scientific article published in the journal Mutagenesis, “The possible benefits of selenium in humans is supported by an extensive literature of in vitro and animal model systems indicating that low, non-toxic levels of selenium can protect against cancer.” (13)
Since selenium is a powerful antioxidant, it makes sense why foods high in selenium may help to prevent cancer by reducing free radicals in the body. Studies to date point toward the benefit of cancer prevention being from eating selenium foods, but not from taking a selenium supplement.
3. Stronger Heart Health
Selenium-rich foods prevent oxidative damage to the body’s cells reducing inflammation and lowering the risk of cardiovascular disease. Some people with low levels of serum selenium have been shown to be at higher risk of cardiovascular disease.
Follow-up results of a prospective randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial reveal that four years of supplementation with selenium and coenzyme Q10 “significantly reduced cardiovascular mortality” in elderly subjects ten years after the supplementation intervention. (14)
4. Mercury Poisoning Protection
Selenium binds with mercury, which leads many experts to believe that it may be able to help when it comes to mercury poisoning. (15)
Signs of Selenium Deficiency
A selenium deficiency is generally seen more often in areas where the soil does not contain as much selenium, such as certain regions of China. People at greater risk for developing a selenium deficiency include those living in selenium-deficient areas (including parts of China and Europe), undergoing kidney dialysis and living with HIV. (16) First-line treatment for this deficiency is typically eating more selenium foods.
Selenium deficiency symptoms include:
Weakened immune system
Infertility in men and women
Fatigue
Mental fog
Muscle weakness
Hair loss
Thyroid dysfunction
Selenium Foods Recipes
If you’re going to make sure you get enough selenium in your diet, you need to know some recipes that include delicious foods that contain selenium. Here are some mouth-watering recipes that include plenty of selenium:
Grilled Burgers and Vegetables Recipe
Creamy Cauliflower, Carrot and Brazil Nut Soup
Baked Eggs and Spinach Recipe
Turkey Stir Fry Recipe
History
In 1817, selenium was discovered by Swedish chemists named Jöns Jacob Berzelius. Its name comes from the Greek word selene, which means moon, due to the fact that selenium is bright and gray when melted. When used to color glass, it can create a deep red color. It is also employed in the making of photo cells, photographic toner, electric eyes and light meters for cameras — and is also added to stainless steel.
Selenium makes up about 90 parts per billion of the Earth’s crust. In nature, it can be found in some minerals long with heavy metals like copper and silver. (17)
Selenium sulfide is the active ingredient often found in shampoos used for the treatment of dandruff. Some naturopaths also use selenium supplements to treat acne, asthma, tendinitis, male infertility problems and postmenopausal disorders in women. (18)
You now know that selenium is essential to human health, but it also plays an essential role to animal health. For animals, selenium helps with reproduction/fertility and immune health. (19)
Precautions
Chronically high intakes of selenium can lead to unwanted side effects. Some early signs of of excess intake include bad breath (specifically a garlic odor) and a metallic taste in the mouth.
The most common clinical signs of chronically high selenium intakes are hair and nail loss or brittleness. Other symptoms of excessive selenium include skin lesions and rashes, nausea, diarrhea, fatigue, irritability, and nervous system abnormalities.
Selenium can possibly interact with other supplements and medications, including niacin, antacids, chemotherapy drugs, corticosteroids, statin drugs and birth control pills.
Selenium supplements have also been associated with an increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes, skin cancer and prostate cancer. (20)
The American Cancer Society advises that the maximum dose of selenium in supplement form should not be greater than 200 micrograms per day. (21)
Final Thoughts
Selenium foods include a variety of meat, fish, plants and nuts (especially Brazil nuts).
Selenium health benefits may include a boost to immune, heart and thyroid health, and benefits are linked more to dietary intake of selenium rather than selenium supplements.
Consuming selenium foods regularly is the best and safest way to ensure that you are getting enough of this vital nutrient in your diet.
I recommend consuming two to three high selenium foods daily to improve detoxification, immunity and thyroid function.
Read Next: Top 10 Foods High in Calcium & Their Benefits
Get FREE Access!
Dr. Josh Axe is on a mission to provide you and your family with the highest quality nutrition tips and healthy recipes in the world...Sign up to get VIP access to his eBooks and valuable weekly health tips for FREE!
Free eBook to boost
metabolism & healing
30 Gluten-Free Recipes
& detox juicing guide
Shopping Guide &
premium newsletter
Your Best Email *
Ad
Popular Posts
All Time
This Week
1 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
2 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
3 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
4 Salt Water Flush Recipe
5 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
1 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
2 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
3 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
4 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
5 Salt Water Flush Recipe
More Nutrition
Dr. Axe on Facebook 212 Dr. Axe on Twitter 5 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 986 Share on Email Print Article 1.2K
Protein-Rich, Gluten-Free Amaranth Aids Digestion & Strengthens Bones
If you’re on the lookout for gluten-free grains that pack a nutritional ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 41072 Dr. Axe on Twitter 435 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 145638 Share on Email Print Article 187.1K
20 Coconut Oil Benefits for Your Brain, Heart, Joints + More!
To date, there are over 1,500 studies proving coconut oil to be ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 6753 Dr. Axe on Twitter 72 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 1262 Share on Email Print Article 8.1K
Nutritional Yeast: The Antiviral, Antibacterial Immune-Booster
Nutritional yeast, also known as savory yeast or nooch, is an inactive ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 22 Dr. Axe on Twitter 1 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 22 Share on Email Print Article 45
Top 25 Insoluble Fiber Foods and Surprising Benefits Beyond Constipation Relief
Fiber is defined as “dietary material containing substances such as cellulose, lignin ...
Read More
View All
Most Popular Nutrition
All Time
This Week
1Is Sugar Bad for You? Here’s How It Destroys Your Body
28 Proven Colloidal Silver Benefits, Uses & Side Effects
3How Much Vitamin D Should I Take?
421 ‘Health’ Foods You Should Never Eat
5Top 15 Anti-Inflammatory Foods and How to Follow This Diet
1Chia Seeds Benefits: The Omega-3, Protein-Packed Superfood
220 Apple Cider Vinegar Uses and 6 Health Benefits
39 Proven Black Seed Oil Benefits that Boost Your Health
4Top 10 Potassium-Rich Foods + Potassium Benefits
58 Kombucha Benefits + How to Make This Gut-Friendly Beverage
Let's Be Friends
Dr. Axe on Facebook 2.8M
Likes
Dr. Axe on Youtube 1.6M
Subscribers
Dr. Axe on Pinterest 436.7K
Followers
Follow us:
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Get Free Access
Want to lose weight, use new natural remedies or recipes, or get stronger?
I'm interested in... Healing Foods Natural Remedies Healthy Recipes Fitness/ Metabolism All of the Above
Register
Yes, sign me up for marketing emails from Dr. Axe. For more information on how we use your information, check out our Privacy Policy. You can change your mind anytime by unsubscribing.
Inside Dr. Axe
About Us
Contact
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
Stores We Love
Program Login
Article Topics
Bone Broth
Collagen
Essential Oils
Leaky Gut
Keto Diet
Omega 3s
Probiotics
Medical Disclaimer
This content is strictly the opinion of Dr. Josh Axe and is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to take the place of medical advice or treatment from a personal physician. All readers/viewers of this content are advised to consult their doctors or qualified health professionals regarding specific health questions. Neither Dr. Axe nor the publisher of this content takes responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content, especially those taking prescription or over-the-counter medications, should consult their physicians before beginning any nutrition, supplement or lifestyle program.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Affiliate Disclosure
DMCA Policy
Careers
© 2019 Dr. Axe. All Rights Reserved.