11 Important Health Benefits of Magnesium | Nutrition Advance
Foods
Health
Low Carb
Nutrition
Nutrients
Search
Nutrition Advance
About
Contact
Foods
Health
Low Carb
Nutrition
Nutrients
11 Important Health Benefits of Magnesium
By
Michael Joseph
-
September 26, 2018
4
4517
Last Updated on February 7, 2019
Facebook622TweetPin212EmailPrint
Magnesium is an essential mineral that plays a crucial role in our overall health.
In fact, magnesium is so important that it is the fourth most abundant mineral in our body.
Adult humans store around 25 grams of magnesium at all times, and the mineral has a significant impact on our health.
However, just what does this mineral do and what health benefits does it have?
This article examines 11 science-backed health benefits of magnesium.
What Is Magnesium?
As previously mentioned, magnesium is a vital mineral for human health.
Magnesium has the chemical symbol of ‘Mg’ and it is the fourth most abundant mineral in the human body after calcium, phosphorus, and potassium (1).
The mineral has a wide range of biological functions in the body, and these include roles in energy production and DNA repair (2, 3).
Magnesium also has a regulatory role in the central nervous system, and it is vital for muscular contraction (4, 5).
Unlike most (trace) minerals in the body, we require a large amount (more than 100 mg) of magnesium per day to stay healthy.
For this reason, magnesium is sometimes known as a ‘macromineral.’
However, it can be difficult to meet the nutrient requirements for magnesium since it is not as prevalent in our diet as other nutrients.
Unfortunately, magnesium deficiency can cause a wide range of symptoms.
Key Point: Magnesium is an essential mineral that is necessary for numerous important biological functions.
The Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA)
How much magnesium do we need per day?
The answer to this question depends on personal circumstances.
In the table below, you can see the dietary requirements for magnesium by age, gender, and other special considerations (6).
Age / Situation Male Female
<6 months 30 mg 30 mg
7-12 months 75 mg 75 mg
1-3 years 80 mg 80 mg
4-8 years 130 mg 130 mg
9-13 years 240 mg 240 mg
14-18 years 410 mg 360 mg
19-30 years 400 mg 310 mg
31-50 years 420 mg 320 mg
51+ years 420 mg 320 mg
Pregnancy/Lactation
Additionally, the recommended allowances increase for women who are either pregnant or lactating;
Age Pregnant Lactating
14-18 years 400 mg 360 mg
19-30 years 350 mg 310 mg
31-50 years 360 mg 320 mg
Key Point: The RDA for magnesium can vary depending on the person, but it is usually around 300 to 300 mg for adults.
Health Benefits of Magnesium
Research has demonstrated that magnesium can have many beneficial impacts on our body.
Here is an overview of the benefits that have research backing.
1) Can Lower Blood Pressure
It appears that higher magnesium levels can lower blood pressure.
As a result, sufficient intake of the mineral could be one way to help manage hypertension.
First of all, various studies show that magnesium can influence blood pressure both directly and indirectly (7, 8).
Furthermore, a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials—featuring 34 trials and 2028 participants—found a positive link between the mineral and blood pressure.
Notably, there was a consistent link showing that when blood levels of magnesium rise, blood pressure readings drop (9).
Additionally, a second meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials confirmed these findings.
This particular study showed that among 543 individuals participating in controlled trials, magnesium supplementation “significantly lowered” blood pressure (10).
Key Point: Higher magnesium intake is associated with lower blood pressure.
2) May Reduce the Risk of Heart Disease and Stroke
Irrespective of the effect magnesium has on blood pressure, higher intake of the mineral is associated with lower risk of heart disease and stroke (11, 12).
There are various mechanisms through which magnesium may exert cardiac-protective properties. As mentioned, a higher blood status of the mineral reduces blood pressure.
Also, research has found a link between magnesium and (13, 14, 15);
An improved cholesterol profile
Reduced rate of atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries)
Inhibition of the calcification of tissues
All three of these factors are strongly associated with cardiovascular risk, and may partly explain the beneficial impact magnesium has on overall risk.
Key Point: Greater plasma levels of magnesium may reduce risk factors for heart disease and stroke.
3) Plays An Important Role In Cellular Signaling
Cellular signaling is an important process through which cells communicate and respond to biological events and threats to the body (16).
To illustrate how important cell signaling is; a breakdown in the process can result in cancer cells not self-destructing (via apoptosis) as they should (17).
Notably, magnesium can significantly affect numerous signaling pathways, and it can be responsible for “turning on” beneficial processes and blocking harmful ones.
For instance, a magnesium deficiency can lead to the activation of signaling pathways that trigger the release of inflammatory cytokines, which can cause oxidative damage (18).
Magnesium plays such an important role in the body, and it is a cofactor in more than 300 metabolic processes (19).
Key Point: Magnesium plays a substantial role in metabolic reactions and cellular signaling.
4) Helps To Protect Against Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is a chronic, progressive disease that leads to declines in bone mineral density and weaker bones.
As a result, it accelerates the rate at which bones become fragile and liable to break, and it can lead to increasing frailty.
Worse still, estimates state that the disease affects 1 in 5 men and 1 in 3 women over the age of 50 (20).
Although we can never prevent chronic disease, we can significantly reduce our risk through healthy diet and lifestyle practices.
This effect on skeletal health is also another critical area where magnesium plays a leading role; various studies show that an insufficient intake of magnesium promotes osteoporosis (21, 22).
Additionally, people of older age with higher intakes of magnesium appear to have a greater bone-mass density (23).
Key Point: Magnesium may help to reduce the risk of osteoporosis.
5) May Help To Prevent Migraine Headaches
Another benefit of consuming greater amounts of magnesium is that the mineral appears to help prevent migraine headaches.
Migraines are a particularly severe form of a headache, and the pain they cause can be debilitating.
Firstly, clinical trials show that the majority of individuals who suffer from migraines have lower levels of plasma magnesium (24).
Randomized trials also suggest that high-dose magnesium could be an adequate treatment for the relief of migraines (25, 26).
Although there is no research to confirm this, a higher dietary intake of magnesium may, therefore, help to reduce the incidence of migraine headaches.
Key Point: People with lower magnesium status have more chance of suffering from migraines.
6) May Reduce the Risk of Metabolic Syndrome
The metabolic syndrome is a cluster of conditions that occur at the same time, and it can greatly increase the risk of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke (27).
Firstly, these five conditions are as follows (28);
High blood pressure
Abnormal blood-sugar levels
High levels of triglycerides
A waist circumference over 40 inches (men) or 35 inches (women)
Very low levels of HDL cholesterol
As we have discussed, magnesium is capable of reducing blood pressure and improving the cholesterol profile.
However, several studies have specifically looked into the interaction between magnesium and the metabolic syndrome.
Among this research, a systematic review of controlled clinical trials demonstrated that increasing magnesium intake “can be effective in the treatment of metabolic syndrome” (29).
A further study—that looked at 6311 cases of metabolic syndrome—found that for every 100-mg increase in daily magnesium intake, the overall risk of metabolic syndrome fell by 17% (30).
Key Point: Consuming more magnesium may help to prevent and treat metabolic syndrome.
7) Higher Intake May Help Manage or Prevent Type 2 Diabetes
Studies show that higher blood levels of magnesium may decrease the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Overall, numerous studies demonstrate that lower blood levels of magnesium increase diabetes risk. Furthermore, higher intake of the mineral reduces risk “in a dose-dependent manner” (31, 32, 33).
Additionally, ensuring sufficient magnesium intake may also play a role in managing the condition.
For example, one randomized controlled trial examined the effects of magnesium supplementation on 63 people with type 2 diabetes and low plasma magnesium levels.
The results of this study showed that magnesium supplementation improved insulin sensitivity and fasting blood glucose levels compared to the control group (34).
Key Point: Higher levels of magnesium appear to be protective against type 2 diabetes.
8) Fights Insulin Resistance, Enhances Insulin Sensitivity
Insulin resistance occurs when our body becomes resistant to the effects of insulin, leading to a continuous struggle to control blood sugar levels.
If left unchecked, insulin resistance may eventually lead to type 2 diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, and a host of related conditions (35, 36).
Several studies show that magnesium helps to fight insulin resistance, and it has strong associations with greater insulin sensitivity.
For example, in a study of 38 participants, there was a strong relationship between their blood magnesium level and insulin sensitivity (37).
Furthermore, systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials on magnesium supplementation show that as magnesium levels rise, so too does insulin sensitivity (38, 39).
Key Point: A strong link exists between insulin sensitivity and higher levels of magnesium.
9) Reduces Inflammatory Markers
Inflammatory markers refer to certain blood readings that can signify raised levels of inflammation.
Two of the most significant inflammatory markers are C reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin 6 (IL-6).
Once again, magnesium shows benefit here because higher blood levels of the mineral correlate with lower markers of inflammation.
One large study followed 3,713 middle-aged women and monitored their magnesium intake. The results showed that the women with a higher magnesium intake had lower markers of systematic inflammation (40).
However, it is worth noting that this study was observational, and correlation does not equal causation.
That said, there is also a high-quality systematic review that supports the observational findings. Importantly, this systematic review focused on only randomized controlled trials that evaluated magnesium’s effect on CRP levels.
Across eight eligible studies, the data demonstrated that greater magnesium intake “significantly reduces” inflammatory markers (41).
Key Point: Higher levels of magnesium appear to reduce markers of inflammation.
10) Improves Symptoms of Insomnia, Encourages Better Sleep
Magnesium is an important mineral for sleep quality.
In a controlled clinical trial, insomnia patients experienced improved sleep quality after taking a combination of magnesium, zinc, and melatonin before bed (42).
All three of these compounds have a synergistic effect on improved sleep. However, magnesium alone can hold benefits for improving symptoms of insomnia.
In a randomized clinical trial, increasing daily magnesium intake improved sleep efficiency, sleeping time, and other measures of insomnia in older adults (43).
Key Point: Increasing magnesium intake may help to improve symptoms of insomnia.
11) May Enhance Physical Performance
As a mineral involved in muscle contraction and energy production, magnesium has some important benefits for physical performance.
A recent randomized, controlled study released in the Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition found that magnesium supplementation had a positive impact on strength and exercise performance (44).
These potential sporting benefits may be from magnesium increasing glucose availability in the blood during exercise (45).
However, a review of the current evidence confirms potential exercise benefits with the caveat that larger-scale studies are necessary to confirm a causal relationship (46).
Key Point: Magnesium may boost sports and exercise performance.
What Foods Contain Magnesium?
If you are looking to increase magnesium intake, then there are many rich food sources of the mineral.
Some of these include;
Almonds
Cocoa
Dark chocolate
Fish
Pumpkin seeds
Spinach
For a full guide, see this list of foods high in magnesium.
Final Thoughts
Overall, magnesium is one of the most essential nutrients in the human diet.
The mineral plays a crucial role in a significant number of processes within the body, and low stores of the mineral have links with adverse health effects.
Science confirms that maintaining sufficient magnesium intake has lots of benefits for our health, and it truly is an essential mineral.
Lastly, magnesium supplementation can be an option for those with inadequate intake.
Facebook622TweetPin212EmailPrint
Michael Joseph
4
Leave a Reply
This comment form is under antispam protection
2 Comment threads
2 Thread replies
0 Followers
Most reacted comment
Hottest comment thread
3 Comment authors
Recent comment authors
This comment form is under antispam protection
Subscribe
newest oldest most voted
Notify of
new follow-up commentsnew replies to my comments
Guest
Eddie carter
Thanks for sharing such a important subject, my question is its alot of cheap Magnesium out there could you please give me and Idea what brand I could buy and take ,I suffering alot with high blood pressure and Anxiety and I heard its good for those illness, iam 60 years Old and I would appreciate any help I can get I was taking some off eBay but never seem to do anything but alot of bathroom visit, thanks in advance,
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
6 months ago
Author
Michael Joseph
Hi Eddie, A cheap food source of magnesium is cocoa powder – it is very rich in magnesium and it has all sorts of benefits too. Regarding supplements, there is a wide range of research that shows magnesium citrate is well absorbed by the body. Solgar is one example of a reputable brand: Solgar magnesium citrate. I am unaware of your situation, but I trust you have spoken to your doctor about the conditions you are suffering from? Just in case you haven’t; I am sure that they could point you in the direction of appropriate supplements/doses for your condition… Read more »
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
6 months ago
Guest
nyakondo
very good information to guide people who want to eat well.
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
6 months ago
Author
Michael Joseph
Thanks, Nyakondo! Hope it helps.
Vote Up0Vote Down Reply
6 months ago
Follow!
Nutrients
The Top 20 Foods High in Magnesium
13 Health Benefits of Vitamin C: What Does It Do?
What is the Best Type of Magnesium Supplement?
ABOUT US
Nutrition Advance is a website dedicated to providing trustworthy food and nutrition articles based on science.
NutritionAdvance.com does not provide medical advice.
FOLLOW US
About
Contact
Privacy
© 2016-2019 Nutrition Advance.
wpDiscuz
Share this ArticleLike this article? Email it to a friend!
Friend's Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Comments
Send Email
Email sent!