Self Management by Overcome Depression (UK)
Home > Self Management
Self Management...
Below are our articles on the subject of Self Management. If you can't see what you are looking for our other categories are displayed on the left under 'Our Quick Links'...
Avoiding Negative and Thinking Positive Thoughts
Negative thoughts can be destructive to self-esteem and can contribute to depression. By consciously replacing negative thoughts with positive ones, you will feel more…...
Finding a Confidant
Finding a confidant is important as it allows you to share the feelings and challenges involved in your depression. Focus on strengthening existing relationships or…...
How Self Help Books Can Worsen Depression
Many people rely on self-help books to treat depressive symptoms or even clinical depression. But sometimes, they can make things worse....
How To Assert Yourself
Learning to be assertive can help you to cope with the helplessness and sadness that you may experience as part of your depression. Try to address your needs through…...
How to Conquer Feelings of Inferiority
Conquering feelings of inferiority can improve your self-esteem and interactions with others, which can help you to manage your depression. Try to accept and recognize…...
How to Increase Your Self Esteem
Poor self-esteem can predispose a person to depressive illness but by taking steps to improve your self-perceptions, you can lead a happier and more positive life....
How to Rebuild Your Life After a Breakdown
Rebuilding your life after a breakdown can be a significant challenge. By breaking down each area in small steps, you can put the pieces of your life back together again....
How to Reduce the Risks of Depression Reoccurring
Medications, counselling and lifestyle changes can help prevent depression from recurring. Your doctor will help you find a management plan that reduces your…...
Monitoring Your Own Mood
Monitoring your mood requires an awareness of triggering situations as well as a strong sense of your own feelings. A mood diary and friend or family support can help....
Music Therapy for Depression
Music therapy may help with depression but it is most likely to be used in conjunction with other mental health treatments....
Participating in Activities
Participating in activities can be a challenge for someone who is depressed. Find activities you enjoy and try to obtain support from a friend to keep you on track and…...
Recognising Triggers of Your Own Depression
Various environmental, physical and psychological events can trigger depression. By identifying your personal triggers and taking steps to avoid or manage them, you…...
Reducing Stress During Holidays
Holidays can be stressful for some people. If you're prone to depression, try to find ways to reduce the stress....
Setting Realistic Goals to Overcome Depression
It's important to set realistic goals to overcome depression. Try breaking your depression down into smaller, more manageable parts and maintain a strong support network....
Smoking and Depression
People who smoke may be at a higher risk of developing the symptoms of depression. It's yet another reason to quit smoking....
Treating Depression With Nutrition
In order to treat depression effectively it is important to address all the needs of the person and encourage them to try and help themselves along with any help…...
Using Exercise for Mild Depression
Exercise can help you whether you suffer from mild or severe depression. But for those with severe depression, you will still need professional medical support....
Ask Our Experts
8 Year Old, Depressed and Stopped Eating: How to Make Him Happy?
How Can I Prevent Clinical Depression Recurrence?
Is it Depression or Just Lost Interest?
Is This Depression or Just Boredom?
My Partner Needs Help, What Can I Do?
Partner Supporting Depressed Mother: How Can I Help?
What Support is There For Long Term Depression Sufferer?
About Depression
Are People With Depression More Likely To Develop Alzheimer's Disease?
Can Manic Depression Be Cured?
Checklist to Identify Depression Risk
Detecting Depression in Very Young Children
Diagnosing Depression
Gene Therapy for Major Depression
How Can Your Reduce The Risk of Depression?
How Common is Depression?
Is Depression Genetic?
What Are The Symptoms of Depression?
What is Depression?
When to Seek Help if You Feel You Are Suffering From Depression
Depression Issues
Can Fathers Experience Postnatal Depression?
Controversial New Brain Treatment for Depression
Depression After an Abortion
Depression and Cyber Bullying
Depression and Pain
Discrimination and Depression
Housework and the Depression Link
How Does Online Therapy Help Depression?
How Medics Miss the Signs of Depression
How Personality Affects Depression Treatment
Impact of Family Depression on Kids
New Developments in Gender Differences and Depression
Research Into Illegal Drugs and Depression
Family & Friends
Encouraging Sufferers of Depression to Participate
Finding Help for Someone You Think is Suffering From Depression
How to Assess Suicide Risk
How to Cope With Hospital Admission Due to Depression
How to Detect The First Signs of Depression in a Loved One
How to Help and Support Your Loved One When They Are Depressed
How to Notice The Signs of Depression
Is Depression Genetic?
Parental Favouritism and Depression
Parenting Programmes to Help Depressed Kids
Showing Affection Support and Encouragement
Understanding Depression
Living With Depression
Coping Financially With Depression
Coping With Depression From Divorce
Depression After Miscarriage
Depression and Dementia
Depression and Diabetes
Depression and Negative Thoughts
Depression in the Elderly
Driving and Depression
Insomnia Caused by Depression
Pregnancy and Depression
Prescription Drugs and Suicide
Work and Education
Medication
About Antidepressant Medications
Diagnosing Depression
Drug Interactions
Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT)
Herbal Medicines
Is Medication Right for My Depression?
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors
Mood Stabilisers
Nutritional Supplements
SSRI Related Antidepressants
Tricyclic Antidepressants
Tricyclic Related Antidepressants
Types of Antidepressant Medications
Self Management
Avoiding Negative and Thinking Positive Thoughts
Finding a Confidant
How Self Help Books Can Worsen Depression
How To Assert Yourself
How to Conquer Feelings of Inferiority
How to Increase Your Self Esteem
How to Rebuild Your Life After a Breakdown
How to Reduce the Risks of Depression Reoccurring
Monitoring Your Own Mood
Music Therapy for Depression
Participating in Activities
Recognising Triggers of Your Own Depression
Reducing Stress During Holidays
Setting Realistic Goals to Overcome Depression
Smoking and Depression
Treating Depression With Nutrition
Using Exercise for Mild Depression
Therapy
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)
Complementary Therapies
Counselling
Herbal Medicines
How Competent is Your Therapist?
Hypnotherapy
Nutritional Supplements
Optimistic Thinking and Depression
Psychoanalytical and Psychodynamic Therapies
The Risks of Talking Therapy
Treatments to Stabilise Mood Swings
Types of Depression
Bipolar and Manic Depression
Childhood Distress
Depression and Bullying
Depression and Sexual Assault
Depression Due to Bereavement
Depression in Young Men
Dysthymia Depression
Eating Disorders and Depression
Major Depression
Melatonin and Seasonal Affective Disorder
Pets and Depression
PMS and Depression
Postnatal Depression (PND)
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Soldiers and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
Site Information
About Our Site
Contact Us
Cookies Policy
Disclaimer Notice
Discussions Guidelines
Guidelines for Submitting Comments
IP & Copyright Notice
Link To Us
RSS News Feed
Tell Us Your Story
Terms of Use and Privacy Notice
Use Our Content
Readers Comments