Supplement Alert: Think Zinc for Fertility
Fertility Issues
Fertility Therapies
Popular Articles
Fertility Cleansing
Fertility Diet
Egg Health
Shop
Success Stories
Contact Us
Fertility Products
Newsletter
About Us
Natural Fertility Info.com
Questions? Call us: 1 (800) 851-7957 | Shop Products
Fertility Issues
Absent Period
Blocked Fallopian Tubes
Birth Control Recovery
Cervical Mucus
Ectopic Pregnancy
Egg Health
Endometriosis
FSH Fertility
Hormone Balance
Hypothyroidism
IVF Preparation
Low Progesterone
Luteal Phase Defect
40+ Fertility
Men’s Fertility
Menstrual Health
Miscarriage
Ovarian Cysts
PCOS
Pregnancy Health
Premature Ovarian Failure
Stress & Fertility
Tubal Ligation Removal
Unexplained Infertility
Uterine Fibroids
Uterine Health
Fertility Therapies
Acupuncture
Antioxidants
Aromatherapy
Castor Oil Pack
Charting
DIM
Donq Quai
EFT
Evening Primrose Oil
Fertility Cleansing
Fertility Diet
Fertility Herbs
Fertility Massage
Fertility Multivitamin
Fertility Smoothies
Maca
Omega 3 EFA
Progesterone
Raspberry Leaf
Royal Jelly
Systemic Enzyme Therapy
Tribulus
Vitex
Yoga
Shop
Popular Articles
Success Stories
Success Stories
Interviews
By Category
Share Your Story
About Us
Meet the Team
Medical Advisors
Contact Us
Call us: 1 (800) 851-7957
Subscribe to The World's #1 Natural Fertility Website†
Subscribe Now
Supplement Alert: Think Zinc for Fertility
Home → Egg Health → Supplement Alert: Think Zinc for Fertility
Supplement Alert: Think Zinc for Fertility
Written by Sarah Abernathy - Certified Herbalist
Reviewed by Christine Traxler, MD
Updated January 11th, 2019 , 1 comment
Are you getting enough zinc for healthy fertility? Zinc is a key mineral for both male and female fertility. Yet, a zinc deficiency can be easy to overlook, even by a fertility specialist. Zinc deficiency is common, affecting 12% or more of the American population and as many as 2 billion people worldwide. Correcting a zinc deficiency is easy and could make a big difference in your fertility program. Read on to learn more about the signs of zinc deficiency, and the importance of zinc for fertility.
Zinc Deficiency – Signs and Symptoms
Note: Vegetarians and people over 60 are more at risk for zinc deficiency. High stress, intense training regimens, pregnancy and breastfeeding also deplete zinc stores. Ask a doctor to check your levels if you’re unsure, but be aware that blood tests don’t check for cellular zinc (where most zinc is stored).
Acne, eczema, and dermatitis- Lack of zinc can cause you to be more prone to skin problems.
Smell and taste loss- Do your favorite foods taste different or bland? If so, you may need more zinc.
Low libido- Low zinc can affect libido in both sexes.
Digestive issues like leaky gut syndrome or diarrhea- Lack of zinc can impair healthy digestion and elimination. In turn, having a digestive issue decreases your body’s zinc absorption.
Frequent infections- Low zinc weakens a healthy immune response, increasing frequency of colds, flu and other infections.
Hair loss and white spots on the nails- Low zinc can cause hair loss and white spots on the nails.
Degenerative disease (atherosclerosis, arthritis)- A zinc deficiency increases inflammation and free radical activity involved in the onset of degenerative diseases.
Poor hearing and slow wound healing- Lack of zinc affects hearing and slows the healing of wounds.
Stunted growth- Zinc deficiency often causes stunted growth in children.
Zinc & The Fertility Connection
Zinc is a fertility nutrient for both sexes. Zinc is critical to the synthesis of DNA and RNA, as well as healthy egg and sperm production. While not a direct cause of infertility, a deficiency in zinc can lead to chromosomal abnormalities that can, in turn, lead to fertility problems or increased miscarriage risk.
Zinc and Male Fertility
For men, zinc is key to normal testosterone production and sperm formation. It’s highly concentrated in seminal fluid, and is important for sperm morphology and motility. Zinc particularly supports the outer layer of sperm and the tail. Zinc may even enhance fertility for men who have been smokers by helping to offset the harmful effects of metals like cadmium in cigarettes.
Supplementation with zinc has been found to increase testosterone, sperm count and motility. One study published in Fertility and Sterility finds men who take folic acid and zinc together experience a stunning 74% increase in total sperm count!
Zinc and Female Fertility
For women, zinc supports hormonal balance and a healthy menstrual cycle. It encourages regular ovulation and nourishes the ovarian follicles. Zinc encourages proper protein metabolism for egg health, and enriches follicular fluid for implantation support. Note: The ovulatory cycle of an egg is around 90 days, so it takes at least 90 days of zinc supplementation to experience improvements with your egg health.
In addition, zinc supports blood sugar balance, and the body’s use of estrogen and progesterone. Zinc even blocks excess androgen production, helping to normalize symptoms like acne and hirsutism in women with PCOS. Zinc also works with the minerals selenium and iodine to promote thyroid hormone production- good news for women with hypothyroidism, another fertility blocker and miscarriage factor.
Zinc and Healthy Pregnancy
Zinc is critical for a healthy pregnancy. A lack of zinc can affect the mother’s health, and the baby’s growth, brain development, and immune system. An Indian study finds babies with low birth weights have lower mortality rates when clinically supplemented with zinc. A Journal of the American Medical Association study shows zinc can increase a baby’s head circumference and weight, particularly for pregnant women who are very thin.
Zinc-rich Foods and Supplements
Zinc is very easily consumed in your Fertility Diet. To shore up your dietary zinc, include more of the following foods in your diet:
raw pumpkin and sesame seeds
nutritional yeast
wheat germ
chickpeas
lentils quality seafood (shrimp)
oysters
grass-fed beef
organic poultry
organic, cage-free eggs
Zinc is also included in a high-quality prenatal vitamin or a fertility multivitamin like Fertile Woman One Daily. For general dosage, strive for 15-30 mg daily. If you need extra zinc long term, make sure your supplement contains copper, as long-term supplementation can deplete copper levels.
Summary
Improving your zinc status can make a big difference for your fertility health, hormonal balance, and overall health. Most people notice better skin texture, fewer colds and flu, and improved libido right away if their levels have been low. When using zinc from supplements or foods, take comfort in the knowledge that it’s working to support your fertility safely and naturally at a deep body level.
References
Page, L. and Abernathy, S. (2011). Healthy Healing 14th Edition.
Briden, L. (2017, Jan.). 7 Ways Zinc Rescues Hormones. Retrieved from: http://www.larabriden.com/7-ways-zinc-rescues-hormones/
Brabaw (2016, Aug.). 6 Signs You’re Not Getting Enough Zinc. Retrieved from: http://www.prevention.com/health/6-signs-youre-not-getting-enough-zinc/slide/3
Rodriguez, H. (2017). Zinc: How Critical Is It To Your Fertility. Retrieved from: http://natural-fertility-info.com/zinc-fertility.html
Zinc Deficiencies a Global Concern. (2009, Sept). Retrieved from: http://oregonstate.edu/ua/ncs/archives/2009/sep/zinc-deficiencies-global-concern
Zinc In Your Pregnancy Diet. (2017). Retrieved from: https://www.babycenter.com/0_zinc-in-your-pregnancy-diet_673.bc
Zinc Supplementation During Pregnancy. (2017). Retrieved from: http://www.who.int/elena/titles/zinc_pregnancy/en/
Zolton, R.. (2016, June). 6 Ways To Boost Male Fertility Naturally. Retrieved from: http://www.alive.com/family/6-ways-to-boost-male-fertility-naturally/
Wong WY, Merkus HM, Thomas CM, Menkveld R, Zielhuis GA, Steegers-Theunissen RP. (2002, March). Effects of folic acid and zinc sulfate on male factor subfertility: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Fertility and Sterility; 77(3):491-8. Retrieved from: https://www.fertstert.org/article/S0015-0282(01)03229-0/fulltext
Sarah Abernathy - Certified Herbalist
Sarah has worked in the field of natural foods and herbalism for over 20 years. She’s the Co-Author of “Healthy Healing” with over 1 million copies sold, a Certified Herbalist, and a health and wellness consultant. Sarah Graduated from the Professional Herbal Studies program at East West School of Herbology, and holds a Bachelor’s Degree in English from St. Mary’s College. Working with women on their journey to wellness is her passion and she loves to share what she has been blessed to learn from naturopaths and other herbalists over the years.
Dr. Christine Traxler M.D., OB/GYN
Dr. Traxler is a University-trained obstetrician/gynecologist, working with patients in Minnesota for over 20 years. She is a professional medical writer; having authored multiple books on pregnancy and childbirth; textbooks and coursework for medical students and other healthcare providers; and has written over 1000 articles on medical, health, and wellness topics. Dr. Traxler attended the University of Minnesota College of Biological Sciences and University of Minnesota Medical School, earning a degree in biochemistry with summa cum laude honors in 1981, and receiving her Medical Doctorate degree (MD) in 1986.
https://natural-fertility-info.com/medical-review-team
Share via:
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
More
Related Articles
Natural Options For Support While Taking Birth Control
Study in Review: Menstrual Cramp Relief with Calcium
Choosing Between Maca & Vitex? What You Need To Know
Worried about Your AMH and FSH? It May Not Be as Important as Once Thought
Tips for Living a Fertility-Friendly Lifestyle
Comments
Let your voice be heard... Leave a brief comment or question related to this article.
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Current [email protected] *
Leave this field empty
characters available
[-] 1 Comment
ROLE OF HORMONES IN IVF TREATMENT
6:24 am on June 16, 2017
The best information articles that you shared to us. I am very impressed with your site and also very satisfied with your suggestions they amazing. You made a good site it’s very interesting one
Reply
POPULAR ARTICLES
The Natural Fertility Diet: How to Eat for Optimal Fertility
Prepare for Conception with Fertility Cleansing
Fertility Herbs Guide
Guide to Fertility Charting
Progesterone Fertility Guide
How to Do Self Fertility Massage™
See all articles
TOP PRODUCTS
Fertility Cleanse Kit
Fertilica Vitex
Fertilica Maca
OvaWise Egg Health Kit
Fertilica Royal Jelly
Self Fertility Massage
MOST SHARED
The Natural Fertility Diet
Progesterone Fertility Guide
How to Help Ovarian Cysts Naturally
Aromatherapy for Fertility
Castor Oil Therapy for Reproductive Health
How to Use Fertility Herbs To Enhance Your Fertility Naturally
Subscribe to The World's #1 Natural Fertility Website†
Subscribe Now
Proudly Supporting
Fertility Resources
Fertility Newsletter
Consultations
Videos
Fertility Shop
Ovulation Calculator
Fertility Products
Fertility Cleanse
Fertility Kits
Fertility Herbs
Fertility Supplements
Fertility Tools
Company Info
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletter Signup
Privacy Policy
Success Stories
Disclaimer: The information on Natural Fertility Info.com is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended to treat, diagnose or prevent any disease. The information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. It is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of Hethir Rodriguez and her community. We encourage you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health care professional.
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product.
‡The World's #1 Natural Fertility Website claim is based upon Google search engine rankings.
Copyright ©2007-2018 The Natural Fertility Company. All Rights Reserved.
Share via
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Mix
Pinterest
Tumblr
Skype
Buffer
Pocket
VKontakte
Xing
Reddit
Flipboard
MySpace
Delicious
Amazon
Digg
Evernote
Blogger
LiveJournal
Baidu
NewsVine
Yummly
Yahoo
WhatsApp
Viber
SMS
Telegram
Facebook Messenger
Like
Email
Print
Copy Link
CopyCopied
Powered by Social Snap
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
More Networks