8 Surprising Benefits of Music Therapy | Organic Facts
Menu
Read Articles
Saved Articles
Liked Articles
Food
Fruits
Herbs
Vegetables
Seeds & Nuts
Cereals
Fish & Meat
View All
Beverage
Teas
Juices
Types & Benefits
Recipes
Mains
Beverages
Make Oils
Condiments
View All
Submit recipe
Essential Oils
Types & Benefits
Best Oils
Conditions A-Z
Diseases
Remedies
Weight Loss
Honey
Top Remedies
Black Seed Oil
Best Teas
View All
Wellness
Fitness
Minerals
Vitamins
Other
Videos
View All
Report Error
Table of Contents Unbiased information on health
bookmark this article
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Food
Fruits Herbs Vegetables Seeds & Nuts Cereals Fish & Meat View All
Beverage
Teas Juices Types & Benefits
Recipes
Mains Beverages Make Oils Condiments View All
Submit recipe
Essential Oils
Types & Benefits Best Oils
Conditions A-Z
Diseases Remedies
Weight Loss
Honey Top Remedies Black Seed Oil Best Teas View All
Wellness
Fitness Minerals Vitamins Other
Videos
View All
Home ›
Other ›
Music Therapy
8 Surprising Benefits of Music Therapy
by John Staughton (BASc, BFA) last updated - April 02, 2018
Likes Comments
Ask your question
People use music therapy all over the world to treat a wide range of psychological and physical conditions.
What is Music Therapy?
Music therapy is a well-researched approach to treating certain conditions with the therapeutic power of music. This is a technique that is primarily done in conjunction with a trained music therapist who will take the time to understand a patient’s needs and design a music therapy program based on their individual desires and health conditions. This therapy includes listening to and creating music, as well as moving to music and singing. Music therapy works by encouraging people to communicate more effectively, improving their mood and mental state in a self-controlled way, and physically rehabilitating patients through movement.
Types of Music Therapy
There are numerous types of music therapy, depending on the needs of each patient, including therapy for the physically handicapped, teenagers, those with heart problems, and for children. The approach for each patient may include one or more types of music therapy. Some of the most common approaches include the following:
Bonny method of guided imagery and music
Dalcroze Eurhythmics
Kodaly
Neurologic music therapy
The Nordoff-Robbins method
Orff-Schulwerk approach
While the intricacies of each approach are beyond the scope of this article, most focus on a particular issue – communication, emotional control, lack of creative outlets, physical limitations to movement, perceptual function, motor skills, and overcoming learning disabilities, among others.
Benefits of Music Therapy
The many benefits of music therapy include treating autism, relieving anxiety and stress, treating psychological disorders, managing Alzheimer’s, improving self-expression, and protecting heart health, to name a few.
Autism
Children and adults with autism can struggle with communicating their emotions and empathizing with others, along with various other debilitating symptoms, but music therapy has been found to ease some of the internal stress and obstacles to interaction and engagement.
Anxiety and Stress
Listening to music is naturally stress-relieving, and when done in a controlled environment of a therapy session, it can notably lower stress hormone levels in the body and help people better control their mood.
Healing Speed
Some studies have found that this form of therapy, particularly when incorporating physical movement, can speed the healing process. It also helps in pain management.
Neurodegenerative Disease
For patients with Parkinson’s or Alzheimer’s, or those at high risk can find relief with the use of this therapy. It can help engage new senses, create new neural pathways, and cope with the depression and physical debilitation of these diseases.
Fetal Development
This form of therapy for pregnant women is believed to normalize fetal development, partly by reducing stress levels and balancing hormones in the mother.
Heart Health
Since this therapy is known to lower blood pressure and improve circulation in the body, it is associated with better heart health and a lower risk of coronary heart diseases.
Also see
Top 5 Reasons to Listen to Music When You Workout
Why is Physical Therapy Important
Psychological Disorders
For those with schizophrenia and other psychological disorders, regular use of this therapy is known to help lessen the severity of symptoms, and also ease some of the secondary symptoms, such as insomnia.
Self-Expression
For many children and some adults, it can be difficult to express thoughts and communicate needs. This form of relaxing therapy can ease the transition between an internal life and external engagement, helping to normalize behavior and gradually improve patients’ self-expression.
Like
Share
References
https://www1.cgmh.org.tw/intr/intr2/c3390/en/music-therapy.htm
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD004517.pub2/full
https://academic.oup.com/jmt/article-abstract/43/4/270/925634
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16618375
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2702.2007.02064.x/full
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000689930400736X
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD004025.pub2/full
https://academic.oup.com/jmt/article-abstract/31/1/31/889169
About the Author
John Staughton is a traveling writer, editor, and publisher who earned his English and Integrative Biology degrees from the University of Illinois in Champaign, Urbana (USA). He is the co-founder of a literary journal, Sheriff Nottingham, and calls the most beautiful places in the world his office. On a perpetual journey towards the idea of home, he uses words to educate, inspire, uplift and evolve.
Report Error in this Article
Rate this article
Average rating 3.4 out of 5.0 based on 12 user(s).
Sign-up for our wellness newsletter
Do you want the best of science-backed health & nutrition information in your inbox? If yes, please share your email to subscribe.
* indicates required
Email Address * We'll never share your email with anyone else.
First Name
Last Name
Birthday
/ ( mm / dd )
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Guest Post
Organic Products
Parenting
Forum
Pet Care
© 2019 Organic Information Services Pvt Ltd. Information on this website is for education purpose only. Consult a medical practitioner for health problems.
Fixed bottom
Reference
×
Login access is disabled
Don't have an account? Sign Up Already have an account? Login
Share with
×
Sign In
×
You must be logged in to post a comment.
To comment, please sign in with any of the social networks below
Close
Ask your question
×
Attach YouTube/Vimeo clip putting the URL in brackets: [https://youtu.be/Zkdf3kaso]
Notify me about updates
Close
Report Error in this Article
×
What are errors that you came across in the article?
Any other suggestions
Close
Send