Minor burns - aftercare: MedlinePlus Encyclopedia – NIH
Skip navigation
U.S. National Library of Medicine
The navigation menu has been collapsed.
Menu
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
About MedlinePlus
Show Search
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
Español
You Are Here:
Home →
Medical Encyclopedia →
Minor burns - aftercare
URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000662.htm
Minor burns - aftercare
To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.
You can care for minor burns at home with simple first aid. There are different levels of burns.
First-degree burns are only on the top layer of the skin. The skin can:
Turn red
Swell
Be painful
Second-degree burns go one layer deeper than first-degree burns. The skin will:
Blister
Turn red
Usually swell
Usually be painful
Treat a burn like a major burn (call your doctor) if it is:
From a fire, an electrical wire or socket, or chemicals
Larger than 2 inches (5 centimeters)
On the hand, foot, face, groin, buttocks, hip, knee, ankle, shoulder, elbow, or wrist
First aid for Minor Burns
First, calm and reassure the person who is burned.
If clothing is not stuck to the burn, remove it. If the burn is caused by chemicals, take off all clothes that have the chemical on them.
Cool the burn:
Use cool water, not ice. The extreme cold from ice can injure the tissue even more.
If possible, particularly if the burn is caused by chemicals, hold the burned skin under cool running water for 10 to 15 minutes until it does not hurt as much. Use a sink, shower, or garden hose.
If this is not possible, put a cool, clean wet cloth on the burn, or soak the burn in a cool water bath for 5 minutes.
Caring for Burns
After the burn is cooled, make sure it is a minor burn. If it is deeper, larger, or on the hand, foot, face, groin, buttocks, hip, knee, ankle, shoulder, elbow, or wrist, seek medical care right away.
If it is a minor burn:
Clean the burn gently with soap and water.
DO NOT break blisters. An opened blister can get infected.
You may put a thin layer of ointment, such as petroleum jelly or aloe vera, on the burn. The ointment does not need to have antibiotics in it. Some antibiotic ointments can cause an allergic reaction. DO NOT use cream, lotion, oil, cortisone, butter, or egg white.
If needed, protect the burn from rubbing and pressure with a sterile non-stick gauze (petrolatum or Adaptic-type) lightly taped or wrapped over it. DO NOT use a dressing that can shed fibers, because they can get caught in the burn. Change the dressing once a day.
For pain, take an over-the-counter pain medicine. These include acetaminophen (such as Tylenol), ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), naproxen (such as Aleve), and aspirin. Follow the directions on the bottle. DO NOT give aspirin to children under age 2 years, or anyone 18 or younger who has or is recovering from chickenpox or flu symptoms.
What to Expect
Minor burns could take up to 3 weeks to heal.
A burn can itch as it heals. DO NOT scratch it.
The deeper the burn, the more likely it is to scar. If the burn appears to be developing a scar, call your health care provider for advice.
When to Call the Doctor
Burns are susceptible to tetanus. This means tetanus bacteria can enter your body through the burn. If your last tetanus shot was more than 5 years ago, call your provider. You may need a booster shot.
Call your provider if you have signs of infection:
Increased pain
Redness
Swelling
Oozing or pus
Fever
Swollen lymph nodes
Red streak from the burn
Alternative Names
Partial thickness burns - aftercare; Minor burns - self-care
References
Mazzeo AS. Burn care procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 38.
Singer AJ, Lee CC. Thermal burns. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 56.
Review Date 8/4/2018
Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Related MedlinePlus Health Topics
Burns
Browse the Encyclopedia
A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch).
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2019, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Get email updates
Subscribe to RSS
Follow us
Disclaimers
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Quality Guidelines
Viewers & Players
MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
For Developers
U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Page last updated: 01 April 2019