8 home remedies for migraines
8 home remedies for migraines
12/07/2018 / By Zoey Sky
Unlike regular headaches, a migraine may cause a person suffering from it to have trouble accomplishing regular tasks — since the condition may cause symptoms such as dizziness or nausea. Thankfully, natural home remedies are available to ease the discomfort caused by migraines.
What are migraines?
Migraines, which are severe and recurring headaches, may cause a throbbing pain on either side of your head. Medical experts have yet to discover the cause of migraine headaches.
However, possible theories include:
Abnormalities of brain chemicals and nerve pathways that can trigger episodes
Genetic predisposition for it
Irregularities in the brain’s blood vessel system/vascular system
An underlying central nervous disorder that can set it off when triggered
Common symptoms of a migraine may include dizziness, nausea, sensitivity to light and sound, and severe pain. Some drugs can help ease the symptoms caused by migraines, but most drugs are also linked to adverse side effects. (Related: Traditional Amish home remedies to use for anything from migraines to fungal infections.)
To avoid these harmful side effects, consider some of the natural home remedies listed below.
Chamomile – Soothing chamomile tea has antispasmodic and anti-inflammatory benefits that can ease the pain and discomfort caused by migraines. Drink chamomile tea three to four times daily to prevent or ease the symptoms of a migraine.
Get enough sleep – Try to get enough sleep every night to avoid getting migraines. Sleeping too little or too much may trigger a migraine and lower your threshold for pain. You should get at least seven to eight hours of continuous sleep every night. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day to establish a sleeping routine.
Ginger – Ginger is an effective home remedy for common migraines. It can help block prostaglandins, which are chemicals in your body that control the inflammation of the brain’s blood vessels, impact the hormones, and promote the contractions of muscles to soothe the pain caused by a migraine. Drink ginger tea several times a day if you are suffering from a migraine.
Magnesium – Magnesium can also help prevent a migraine. Food sources that contain magnesium include dark-green vegetables, nuts, and whole grains. Consume these magnesium-rich foods regularly to manage the symptoms of this condition. Consuming foods that contain magnesium can also help prevent a migraine from occurring.
Manage your triggers – In some cases, migraine attacks are triggered by certain foods or conditions. Triggers are unique for each person, so you need to determine what causes your episodes. Once you confirm these triggers, avoid them. Common triggers include bright lights, strong odors, or sunlight.
Peppermint – Peppermint has potent anti-inflammatory properties that can help soothe the nerves affected by a migraine headache. This herb also has calming and antispasmodic effects. Sweeten peppermint tea with honey and drink it as needed. Alternatively, you can massage your temples gently with a drop of peppermint essential oil if you need short-term relief from a migraine.
Vitamin B12 – Studies show that vitamin B12, or riboflavin, may help prevent migraines. Sources include cheese, chicken, fish, and milk. You can also take vitamin B12 supplements, but consult a healthcare professional to determine the proper dosage for your condition.
Yoga – Exercises that get your heart pumping can help prevent migraines. Do take note that this can also trigger a headache in some individuals. Practice exercises with slower movements if you want to try a safer alternative to prevent headaches. According to research, regularly practicing yoga can help minimize the number of migraine attacks that you experience. Yoga may also significantly reduce the intensity of your migraines.
If you’re suffering from migraines, try these natural home remedies to relieve the pain and discomfort caused by your symptoms.
Browse more articles about effective home remedies for migraines and other complaints at Healing.news.
Sources include:
AskDrShah.com
Healthline.com
Tagged Under: alternative medicine, chamomile, ginger, herbal medicine, home remedies, Magnesium, migraine triggers, migraines, natural healing, natural remedies, peppermint, prevention, remedies, sleep, vitamin B12, Yoga
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
RECENT NEWS & ARTICLES
Top 7 easy FOOD SWITCHES you can make every day to dramatically improve your health
01/24/2019 / By S.D. Wells
The hypoglycemic potential of Kigelia, a common African fruit
01/24/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
Study proves the antifungal potential of thyme essential oil
01/24/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
A powerful wound-healing medicine found in a traditional Indian plant
01/24/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
The persimmon tree shows promise as a natural remedy that can improve blood circulation
01/24/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Natural treatment for diabetes found in a subtropical plant
01/24/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
The everyday food choices you make play a huge role in cancer development — more so than you think
01/24/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Does the African mahogany have anticancer properties? Research says it can prevent cancer cell growth without damaging healthy cells
01/24/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
Can acupuncture be an effective therapy for treating osteoporosis?
01/24/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Aloe vera reduces your risk of diabetes-induced nephropathy
01/24/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
10 Proven ways to relieve rheumatoid arthritis naturally
01/23/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Another benefit of aloe vera: It reduces fasting blood glucose
01/23/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Does green tea really deserve its health halo? Experts say yes
01/23/2019 / By Zoey Sky
Milk thistle reduces your risk of developing NAFLD
01/23/2019 / By Mary Miller
An Ayurvedic herbal complex found to be effective in managing osteoarthritis symptoms
01/23/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
Green chiretta found to relieve symptoms of the common cold
01/23/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Ginkgo biloba shows potential value in the treatment of over 100 diseases
01/23/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Omega-3 fatty acids reduce inflammation, helping prevent depression
01/23/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
5 health benefits to regularly drinking black coffee
01/23/2019 / By Mary Miller
Carb-restricted diets found to improve metabolism and reduce liver fat
01/23/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
COPYRIGHT © 2017 NATURAL CURES NEWS
Privacy Policy