treating osteoarthritis - Westchester Senior Voice
Westchester Senior Voice
home
health
nutrition / fitness
medical conditions / treatments
healthy aging
brain health
home / relationships
living
home and garden
family / friends / grandparenting
caregiving and aging parents
money / work
managing money
legal
insurance / medicare
work and retirement
food / leisure
leisure / travel
food / recipes
westchester
spotlight
out and about
news and worthy
learning and doing
calendar of events
resource guide
resource guide-westchester
videos
booming better videos
31 Jan 2019
0 Comments
treating osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a chronic degenerative joint disease that affects millions of people worldwide. It is a slow progressive destruction of cartilage and bone that can cause significant pain, stiffness and decreased function. It generally occurs in people over 50 years old and the risk increases with age.
The knee, a weight bearing joint, is the most commonly affected joint due to the constant forces that it has to endure over time. Unfortunately, there is no cure for knee osteoarthritis. The most definitive treatment is having a surgery to replace the knee joint with a prosthetic. However, there are different treatment modalities that can be done to help provide some pain relief and stave off the need for surgery or even avoid it altogether.
Some of these treatment modalities include pharmacologic treatments such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), which include ibuprofen and naproxen. Tylenol is considered first line for osteoarthritis because it has fewer side effects and can help decrease pain. NSAIDs have an anti-inflammatory component that not only decrease pain but decrease the inflammation associated with osteoarthritis.
Weight loss in those who are overweight can also help treat knee osteoarthritis. Decreasing the pressure on the knee joint with just a few pounds of weight loss has been shown to improve both pain and function. Therefore, cardiovascular exercise and healthy dieting are highly encouraged in the management of knee osteoarthritis. Your sports medicine physician can prescribe an exercise regimen and help you with nutritional guidance.
Learn more about the May 5, 2019 Booming BETTER Expo for ages 55 and better in Purchase, NY (click here)
The knee pain caused by arthritis can unfortunately be a double-edged sword. Exercise is medicine for the knee, but it can also be too painful to exercise. High impact exercises like jogging may be unbearable. Low impact exercise such as water aerobics and riding an exercise bicycle are highly recommended because they avoid the excess pressures on the knee and are less painful as a result.
Many patients and doctors alike do not realize the potential benefits of physical therapy. Quite honestly, among all the different therapeutic treatments for knee osteoarthritis, physical therapy can be the big difference-maker. There are many treatment modalities within the scope of physical therapy such as strength training, flexibility training, manual therapy, aquatic therapy and electrical stimulation.
The ultimate goal is to increase a patient’s quality of life through less pain and increased mobility. According to research, the best results are obtained with a physical therapy regimen of three times per week for at least four weeks. A physical therapist can provide a list of home exercises that can be done on days that you are not having supervised physical therapy. After physical therapy, it is important to continue doing some of these exercises regularly for ongoing benefit.
About
Latest Posts
McKirven Ceus, MD
Dr. McKirven Ceus is board certified in family medicine. He received his Doctor of Medicine degree from St. George’s University School of Medicine and completed his family medicine residency at UHS Wilson Medical Center and his fellowship in primary care sports medicine at West Kendall Baptist Hospital. Dr. Ceus practices at CareMount Medical’s Hopewell Junction and Fishkill Westage offices and has privileges at MidHudson Regional Hospital.www.caremountmedical.com
Latest posts by McKirven Ceus, MD
treating osteoarthritis - January 31, 2019
By: McKirven Ceus, MD Category: health, medical conditions / treatments
McKirven Ceus, MD
Dr. McKirven Ceus is board certified in family medicine. He received his Doctor of Medicine degree from St. George’s University School of Medicine and completed his family medicine residency at UHS Wilson Medical Center and his fellowship in primary care sports medicine at West Kendall Baptist Hospital. Dr. Ceus practices at CareMount Medical’s Hopewell Junction and Fishkill Westage offices and has privileges at MidHudson Regional Hospital. www.caremountmedical.com
→ McKirven Ceus, MD
« the ny state of medical marijuana	» better aging
Leave a Reply x Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
8 + = thirteen
________________________________
JOIN OUR EMAIL NEWSLETTER:
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
VISIT OUR SPONSORS:
SEARCH OUR SITE:
Like Us on Facebook
About
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Subscribe To Newsletter
Contact Us
© 2018 - Voice Media LLC and Westchester Senior Voice, All rights reserved.
A Convey Media site.
SPRING 2019
WINTER 2018-2019 ISSUE
FALL 2018 ISSUE
SUMMER 2018 ISSUE
PRIOR ISSUES ON REQUEST
SPRING 2018 ISSUE
WINTER 2017-2018 ISSUE
FALL 2017 ISSUE
SUMMER 2017 ISSUE
SPRING 2017