Osteoarthritis: Our Aging Joints | HubPages
MORE
HubPages
Sign InJoin
ArtsAutosBooksBusinessEducationEntertainmentFamilyFashionFoodGamesGenderHealthHolidaysHomeHubPagesPersonal FinancePetsPoliticsReligionSportsTechnologyTravel
3
HubPages»
Health»
Diseases, Disorders & Conditions
Osteoarthritis: Our Aging Joints
Updated on March 22, 2013
gypsumgirl
more
Contact Author
Osteoarthritis
A condition that we all eventually face in our lives is osteoarthritis or degenerative arthritis. Simply put, it is a natural part of aging. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis and is more prevalent than rheumatoid arthritis or joint-related diseases. This common form of arthritis affects our joints, especially the ones that are weight-bearing such as the ones found in the back, hips or knees. Most people feel the effects of osteoarthritis in their hands and feet as well, primarily in the smaller joints of their fingers and toes. We place stress on these joints each and every day as we go about our business.
Degenerative arthritis is a part of aging. Men have been found to show signs of osteoarthritis as early as age 45. Women tend to show the same signs a little later in life, around age 55. Regardless of gender and age, however, athletes who participated in sports that place stress on the joints show signs of osteoarthritis that is not directly linked to age. An early injury to a joint can often be the cause of osteoarthritis in athletes.
What Causes Osteoarthritis?
The pain caused by osteoarthritis (OA) has to do with the cartilage in the affected joints. Cartilage, a protein substance, cushions the joints as the bones rub against each other. When cartilage is broken down and no longer providing the joint with a cushioned buffer, the person feels pain and has a hard time moving.
As we age, the water content of our joints increase while the cartilage degenerates and eventually disappears. Joint pain and swelling can then result from the overuse of the joints without cartilage to provide a cushion. Inflammation is the primary cause of pain in the affected joints. These joints often swell up and are very sore and stiff.
OA can also be prevalent as a a secondary condition for those who are obese or those who have had a repeated injury or stress, trauma, or surgery in that joint. Those who are overweight tend to show OA in their backs, hips, and knees as they tend to be the load-bearing joints in the body. Soccer players and weight-lifters often show signs of early OA in their knees.
For some, the fact that they were born with congenital abnormalities and have to live with abnormally formed joints causes them to suffer from OA at an earlier age. They are vulnerable to earlier mechanical wear on their joints, causing degeneration and loss of cartilage. These are diagnoses made at birth that follow people for the rest of their lives.
Osteoarthritis in the Fingers | Source
The Painful Symptoms
Unlike other forms of arthritis, those who suffer from OA don't have to worry about the effects on other organs. Degenerative arthritis only affects the joints and the pain and symptoms are localized to just the bones and the skeletal system.
The symptoms of OA vary from person to person. Some people feel great pain after sitting too long or being immobilized. They need to constantly stretch out and move the joint to keep the pain at a minimum. Some can be completely debilitated and are not able to move, whereas others feel relatively little pain throughout the day.
There are some consistencies, however, that have been shared by patients:
The pain is usually worse later in the day.
There is swelling in the joints and they feel warm at the end of the day.
The affected joints tend to creak when moved.
With complete loss of cartilage in a joint, inactivity is worse than activity.
Those suffering from OA can also see the symptoms in their fingers where the joints may look like bulges. This is because OA causes the formation of bony, hard enlargements of the finger joints. This can be caused by bone spurs that are formed due to the lack of cartilage. These bulges formed by the bone spurs in the fingers are known as Heberden's Nodes.
Remedies
Although there aren't any cures for cartilage degeneration nor techniques for the rebuilding of cartilage, people who suffer from OA can implement some routines that might lessen the severity of the pain and symptoms. Obviously, lessening the use of the affected joint is the most logical place to start in reducing the symptoms. People also find that limiting their weight and impact on the joints also helps.
Medication that is taken orally or ointments that are applied topically might be able to relieve the symptoms of OA. Over-the-counter anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen can help reduce the pain for OA patients. Acetaminophen, like Tylenol, and aspirin can help with the pain. Applying heat and cold packs can also help reduce the swelling and inflammation in the joints.
In addition to the different pain medications, people have also found that some dietary supplements can also help. In particular, glucosamine and chondroitin can relieve the symptoms of pain and stiffness in the joints. Fish-oil supplements have also shown to help people combat stiffness in their joints and give them bigger ranges of motion.
An extremely natural way to combat OA symptoms would involve regular exercise utilizing the identified joint. This will help build the muscles around the joint. Strong muscles will help carry some of the load when you use the joint, allowing the bones, themselves, to take on a lighter load.
In the most severe cases, OA patients have turned to surgery. Surgical procedures for OA include:
Arthroscopy ~ this surgery is particularly helpful to mend torn cartilage.
Osteotomy ~ this is a procedure used to remove the bone which can help realign deformity in some patients.
Arthrodesis ~ the procedure involves fusing the bones together. It is used in more severe cases of degenerated joints.
Arthroplasty ~ joint replacement surgery. Total hip and total knee replacements are now commonly performed in community hospitals throughout the United States.
Some athletes and elderly are thriving after surgery and feel they were given a new lease on life.
Osteoarthritis Information
Osteoarthritis: Preventing and Healing Without Drugs
Buy Now
Related
Obesity & Weight Management
The Importance of Weight Management for Osteoarthritis
by Melissa Flagg COA OSC5
Chronic Pain
Why Do My Joints Hurt?
by NathaNater0
Popular
Musculoskeletal Diseases & Conditions
Total Hip Replacement Surgery: A Survivor's Guide
by Laurel Rogers138
Musculoskeletal Diseases & Conditions
What Is Achilles Tendinitis? Prevention And Treatment
by Nell Rose21
Musculoskeletal Diseases & Conditions
Essential Gout Foods to Eat List
by JCielo7
Comments
Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
0 of 8192 characters used
Post Comment
No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites.
sending
AUTHOR
gypsumgirl
8 years ago from Vail Valley, Colorado
BlissfulWriter: thanks for the comment. I didn't realize there was a form of glucosamine that can be added to juice or water...
Denise: Thanks for the continued support and thanks for reading my hubs. I think osteoarthritis is for everyone to think about. It's just basic wear-and-tear, unfortunately.
Denise Handlon
8 years ago from North Carolina
Hi GypsumGirl-Great article. Read it point by point as I think I am heading down that road. Although I exercise my weight loss has been slow going. I'll check out these two products. I usually use naprosyn to help with the pain. It really works and I am free of pain while I exercise. Nice info-very useful, thanks.
You're doing good with the challenge. Keep on going, girl!
BlissfulWriter
8 years ago
Nice coverage of remedies in this Hubs. I too have heard that NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as over-the-counter asprine and ibuprofen can help. Along with glucosamine which can come in tablets or in liquid form that you can add to juice or water.
About Us
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
Arts and Design
Autos
Books, Literature, and Writing
Business and Employment
Education and Science
Entertainment and Media
Family and Parenting
Fashion and Beauty
Food and Cooking
Games, Toys, and Hobbies
Gender and Relationships
Health
Holidays and Celebrations
Home
HubPages Tutorials and Community
Personal Finance
Pets and Animals
Politics and Social Issues
Religion and Philosophy
Sports and Recreation
Technology
Travel and Places
Blog
Help
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, hubpages.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://hubpages.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}