Yogurt: Types, health benefits, and risks
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Everything you need to know about yogurt
Last updated	 Thu 11 January 2018	 Last updated	Thu 11 Jan 2018
By Megan Ware RDN LD
Reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD
Table of contents
Nutrition
Types
Benefits
Lactose intolerance
Diet
Yogurt is a dairy product made by fermenting milk with a yogurt culture. It provides protein and calcium, and it may enhance healthy gut bacteria.
Health benefits range from protecting against osteoporosis to relieving irritable bowel disease and aiding digestion, but these depend on the type of yogurt consumed.
Added sugar and processing can make some yogurt products unhealthy.
Yogurt starts as fresh milk or cream. It is often first pasteurized, then fermented with various live bacteria cultures, and incubated at a specific temperature to encourage bacteria growth.
The culture ferments the lactose, the natural sugar found in milk. This produces lactic acid, which gives yogurt its distinctive flavor.
Fast facts about yogurt
Yogurt is made by fermenting milk wth a yogurt culture.
Health benefits can include promoting bone health and aiding digestion.
Some yogurts contain active, living bacteria known as probiotics, which can help keep the intestines healthy.
Yogurt products that go through heat treatment have no active bacteria, reducing the health benefits. Yogurt-covered raisins are an example.
Yogurts contain calcium, vitamins B6 and B12, riboflavin, potassium, and magnesium. The amounts depend on the type.
Nutrition
Yogurt can be a tasty, nutritious addition to any diet. However, there are plenty of different yogurts, and some are more healthful than others.
There are many types of yogurt that provide varying levels of nutritional benefit.
When is yogurt good for you?
Whether yogurt is a healthful choice depends on the person consuming it and the type of yogurt.
Yogurts can be high in protein, calcium, vitamins, and live culture, or probiotics, which can enhance the gut microbiota.
These can offer protection for bones and teeth and help prevent digestive problems.
Low-fat yogurt can be a useful source of protein on a weight-loss diet.
Probiotics may boost the immune system.
Some argue that they could also impact brain functioning, too, although more research is necessary to confirm some of these claims.
In 2014, researchers found that consuming yogurt may help protect against type 2 diabetes. Other types of dairy product did not appear to impact the likelihood of developing the condition.
Other scientists have suggested that yogurt containing probiotic bacteria successfully protects children and pregnant women against the effects of heavy metal exposure.
It is also a nutritious option when people find it difficult to chew their food.
Non-dairy yogurts offer an alternative for people who do not consume dairy or animal products or have allergies or intolerances.
Yogurt contains less lactose than milk because the lactose is used up in the fermentation process.
When is yogurt bad for you?
Not all yogurts are healthful. Those without added sugar or unnecessary additives can be a healthful addition to the diet, but some products have high quantities of added sugar and other ingredients that may not be beneficial.
Natural yogurt can be a low-calorie, high-nutrient food packed with protein.
However, many manufacturers add sugar, artificial sweeteners, and other ingredients that are not healthful.
All yogurts contain some natural sugars, but consumers are advised to look for a product with less than 15 grams of sugar per serving. The lower the sugar, the better, as long as it does not contain any artificial sweeteners.
Some studies have refuted the view that yogurt consumption is linked to good health, causing authorities to question whether health claims can be made for commercial purposes. However, people who eat yogurt are more likely to have an otherwise healthy diet.
Yogurt-flavored products
Packaged products like cereals and bars claiming to be "made with real yogurt," yogurt-covered raisins and other products with yogurt coating contain only a small amount of yogurt powder.
Yogurt powder is heat-treated, and heat kills the beneficial bacteria. Yogurt coatings are made of sugar, oil, whey, and yogurt powder.
Types
There are different types of yogurt.
Low fat or non-fat
Low-fat, or reduced-fat yogurt, is made with 2-percent milk. Non-fat yogurt is made with zero percent or skim milk.
Kefir
Kefir is a liquid yogurt for drinking. It contains probiotics and is easy to make at home by adding kefir grains to milk and leaving it to stand for 12 to 24 hours.
Greek yogurt
Greek yogurt has a higher protein content than other yogurts, but it contains less calcium.
Greek yogurt is thick and creamy. It can withstand heat better than regular yogurt and is often used in Mediterranean-style cooking and dips.
It is made by further straining regular yogurt to remove the liquid whey.
The result is a higher protein content, due to its thicker concentration, but the extra straining leads to a lower calcium content.
Greek yogurt is available in full fat, reduced or low fat and non-fat or zero percent.
Skyr
Similar to Greek yogurt, skyr, pronounced "skeer," is an Icelandic-style yogurt that is dense, creamy and high in protein. Compared to regular yogurt, skyr requires 4 times the amount of milk to make and contains 2 to 3 times more protein.
Frozen yogurt
Frozen yogurts are often seen as a healthful alternative to ice cream.
However, many frozen yogurts contain the same amount of sugar or more as regular ice cream.
Also, according to the National Yogurt Association, not all so-called frozen yogurts contain live and active cultures. Some use heat-treated yogurts, which kills the live and active cultures.
Non-dairy yogurt
Non-dairy yogurt alternatives include soy yogurt and coconut milk yogurt.
Benefits
Yogurt can offer a range of important nutrients.
Probiotics
The microorganism Lactobacillus bulgaricus is used to ferment yogurt.
Some yogurts have probiotics added to them.
Probiotics are a type of healthy bacteria that benefit the gut. They help regulate the digestive system and decrease gas, diarrhea, constipation, and bloating.
Some research has suggested that probiotics can boost the immune system, help with weight management, and reduce the risk of cancer.
Consuming yogurt and other probiotic foods may enhance absorption of vitamins and minerals.
The two most common bacteria used to ferment milk into yogurt are Lactobacillus bulgaricus (L. bulgaricus) and Streptococcus thermophiles (S. thermophiles), but many yogurts contain additional bacterial strains.
To help consumers identify yogurts with live and active cultures, the National Yogurt Association has implemented the Life & Active Cultures (LAC) seal, found on the product container.
In most cases, the fresher the product, the more live bacteria it will contain.
A recent study from the University of Toronto points out that different probiotics will have different effects, and some yogurts containing probiotics may be healthier than others.
Calcium
Dairy products are one of the best dietary sources of calcium in terms of bioavailability.
Calcium is essential for the development and maintenance of healthy bones and teeth. It is also important for blood clotting, wound healing, and maintaining normal blood pressure.
Calcium-rich foods are best when paired with a source of vitamin D, as vitamin D helps the small intestine to absorb calcium.
Most yogurts also contain varying amounts of vitamins B6 and B12, riboflavin, potassium, and magnesium.
Lactose intolerance
Yogurt has a low lactose content, so a person with a lactose intolerance will likely find it more tolerable than milk. It also contains bacteria that aid digestion.
As a result, people who experience discomfort, bloating or gas after consuming liquid milk or ice cream can often tolerate yogurt without symptoms.
The individual should try a small amount of yogurt, say, a quarter of a cup, to see how their body reacts. This only applies to lactose intolerance, not to those with a milk allergy.
People with a lactose intolerance often lack calcium, so yogurt can be an important component of their diet.
A person with a milk allergy will not benefit from consuming yogurt.
Diet
Here are some tips for incorporating more yogurt into a healthful, nutritious diet.
Start with plain, unsweetened yogurt and sweeten it yourself with fruit, unsweetened applesauce or a small amount of pure maple syrup or honey.
Avoid pre-made fruit and yogurt desserts, as these often contain unnecessary added sugars.
When baking, use yogurt instead of butter or oil.
Use plain Greek yogurt instead of sour cream to top baked potatoes or tacos.
A healthful yogurt should have more grams of protein per serving than sugar.
Recipes containing yogurt
Here are some healthful recipes that contain yogurt:
Carrot cake power smoothie
Pumpkin pie power smoothie
100-calorie cranberry dark chocolate muffins
Cranberry-maple breakfast bars
Green chile and spinach quesadillas.
The range of yogurt options can be confusing. Most of the products available have not been studied, and scientists do not yet know which probiotics do what in the human body. The best option is to choose yogurt that is low in sugar and additives.
If choosing yogurt for health reasons, experts suggest choosing those that have been scientifically researched.
Scientists have called for more rigorous research and policies regarding the healthfulness and the sale of yogurt, to help populations maximize the benefit they can derive from this potentially very important food.
Related coverage
Low-fat dairy intake may raise Parkinson's risk Researchers have uncovered a link between higher intake of low-fat dairy products - particularly skim or low-fat milk - and a greater risk of Parkinson's. Read now
Probiotic Bacteria Beneficial For Brain Function A study was carried out by UCLA researchers that found that brain function changed among healthy women who consumed probiotics in yogurt. Read now
Could yogurt help lower high blood pressure? A study finds women who ate at least five yogurt portions per week had a lower risk of developing high blood pressure; the link was strongest for those on a healthy diet. Read now
Could eating yogurt help treat depression? Probiotic bacteria present in live-cultured yogurt - Lactobacillus - have the potential to treat depression, new research suggests. Read now
Seven benefits of kefir Kefir is a yogurt-like drink that has experienced a recent wave of popularity. It is said to control blood sugar and cholesterol, improve tolerance to lactose, and protect the stomach. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains the potential health benefits of kefir. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Bones / Orthopedics Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology
Additional information
Article last updated by Adam Felman on Thu 11 January 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Adolfsson, O., Meydani, S. M., & Russell, R. M. (2004). American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 802, 245-256. Retrieved from http://ajcn.nutrition.org/content/80/2/245.abstract
Aubrey, Allison. (2012, July 9). Confusion at the yogurt aisle? Time for probiotics 101. NPR. Retrieved from http://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2012/07/09/156381323/confusion-at-the-yogurt-aisle-time-for-probiotics-101
Bisanz, J. E., Enos, M. K., Mwanga, J. R., Changalucha, J., Burton, J. P., Gloor, G. B., & Reid, G. (2014, October 7). Randomized open-label pilot study of the influence of probiotics and the gut microbiome on toxic metal levels in Tanzanian pregnant women and school children. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25293764
Chen, M., Sun, Q., Giovannucci, E., Mozaffarian, D., Manson, J. E., Willet, W. C., & Hu, F. B. (2014, November 25). Dairy consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes: 3 cohorts of US adults and an updated meta-analysis. BMC Medicine 12215. Retrieved from https://bmcmedicine.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12916-014-0215-1
German, B. (2014, April 2). The future of yogurt: Scientific and regulatory needs. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3985222/
Getz, L. (2011, October). A healthful dose of bacteria - yogurt is the best probiotic source, but clients do have other options, Getz, Lindsey, Today's Dietitian 1310, 46. Retrieved from http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/100111p46.shtml
Inside Greek yogurt. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.todaysdietitian.com/pdf/webinars/minority/GreekYogurtHandout.pdf
Plataforma SINC. (2015, April, 21). Regular consumption of yogurt does not improve health [Press release]. Retrieved from https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/04/150421084537.htm
Ragovin, H. (2015, January 29). What's so great about yogurt? Retrieved from http://now.tufts.edu/articles/whats-so-great-about-yogurt
Randomized Open-Label Pilot Study of the Influence of Probiotics and the Gut Microbiome on Toxic Metal Levels in Tanzanian Pregnant Women and School Children. MBio 55, e01580-14. Retrieved from http://mbio.asm.org/content/5/5/e01580-14.abstract
University of Toronto. (2017, April 19). U of T find health benefits differ for probiotics [Press release]. Retrieved from https://www.utoronto.ca/news/u-t-researchers-find-health-benefits-differ-probiotic-yogurts
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Megan Ware RDN LD. "Everything you need to know about yogurt." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 11 Jan. 2018. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/295714.php>
APA
Megan Ware RDN LD. (2018, January 11). "Everything you need to know about yogurt." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/295714.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/295714.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);