What is hair loss?
What is hair loss?
A health article about hair loss from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies
Hair loss usually develops gradually in a person, and it might either be a patchy case of hair being lost or might be diffused, which means that it will be all over. In a person who is not experiencing hair loss other than the regular loss of hair, they are losing about 100 hairs from their heads every day. On the average scalp, there are about 100,000 hairs.
A hair is going to live for about 4 and a half years, and it will grow about half and inch during every month. In the 5th year, the hair will fall out, and will be replaced in about 6 months by a new hair. Most of the baldness that is genetic is caused by the fact that your body does not generate new hairs to replace the ones that fall out naturally.
Types of hair loss and their causes
The most important cause of loss of hair is inadequate nutrition. Even a partial lack of almost any nutrient may cause hair to fall. Persons lacking vitamin B6 lose their hair and those deficient in folic acid often become completely bald. But the hair grows normally after the liberal intake of these vitamins.
Another important cause of falling of hair is stress such as worry, anxiety and sudden shock.
Stress leads to a severe tension in the skin of the scalp. This adversely affects the supply of essential nutrition required for the healthy growth of the hair. General debility, syphilis, chronic cold, influenza and anaemia, also gives rise to this disorder.
It makes the roots of the hair weak, resulting in the falling of hair.
Some of the other conditions are called alopecial totalis and alopecial universalis, which mean that the entire scalp for the first one, and the entire body for the second one, become completely bald.
These conditions are
Unclean condition of the scalp can also cause loss of hair. It weakens the hair roots by blocking the pores with the collected dirt. Heredity is another predisposing factor which may cause hair to fall.
Another common cause of hair loss is poor circulation to the scalp. It is estimated that about 1/3 of people, especially men, who are suffering hair loss will see significant improvement if they are able to improve the blood circulation to the scalp.
Risk Factors:
One of the major risk factors for hair loss is not giving your body the full range of nutrition it needs on a daily basis and in a form that the body can absorb it and get that nutrition right down to your cells.
Many times in men a loss of hair can be traced back to the way that men produce testosterone. Too much or too little is going to add to baldness that might be already occurring.
In Women hair loss can be because of many reasons, such as their particular genetics, Thyroid problems, their age, and the fact that male hormones tend to increase in women after menopause, which is going to aide in the thinning of a woman’s hair.
Stress and general lifestyle issues place pressure on your system that can be a significant risk factor for hair loss.
Treatment:
Baldness, whether permanent or temporary, can't be cured. But hair loss treatments are available to help promote hair growth or hide hair loss. For some types of alopecia, hair may resume growth without any treatment.
Medication
The effectiveness of medications used to treat alopecia depends on the cause of hair loss, extent of the loss and individual response. Generally, treatment is less effective for more extensive cases of hair loss.
The types of drugs for treatment of alopecia that are approved by the Food and Drug Administration include:
Minoxidil (Rogaine). This over-the-counter (nonprescription) medication is approved for the treatment of androgenetic alopecia and alopecia areata. Minoxidil is a liquid or foam that you rub into your scalp twice daily to grow hair and to prevent further loss. Some people experience some hair regrowth or a slower rate of hair loss or both. Minoxidil is available in a 2 percent solution and in a 5 percent solution.
New hair resulting from minoxidil use may be thinner and shorter than previous hair. But there can be enough hair growth for some people to hide their bald spots and have them blend with existing hair. New hair stops growing soon after you discontinue the use of minoxidil. It may take 12 weeks for new hair to start growing. If you experience minimal results within six months, your doctor may recommend discontinuing use. Side effects can include irritation of the scalp.
Finasteride (Propecia). This prescription medication to treat male-pattern baldness is taken daily in pill form. Many men taking finasteride experience a slowing of hair loss, and some may show some new hair growth. Positive results may take several months. Finasteride works by stopping the conversion of testosterone into dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a hormone that shrinks hair follicles and is an important factor in male hair loss. Rare side effects of finasteride include diminished sex drive and sexual function. As with minoxidil, the benefits of finasteride stop if you stop using it.
Finasteride is not approved for use by women. In fact, it poses significant danger to women of childbearing age. If you're a pregnant woman, don't even handle crushed or broken finasteride tablets because absorption of the drug may cause serious birth defects in male fetuses.
Corticosteroids. Injections of cortisone into the scalp can treat alopecia areata. Treatment is usually repeated monthly. Doctors sometimes prescribe corticosteroid pills for extensive hair loss due to alopecia areata. New hair may be visible four weeks after the injection. Ointments and creams also can be used, but they may be less effective than injections.
Anthralin (Dritho-Scalp). Available as either a cream or an ointment, anthralin is a synthetic, tarry substance that you apply to your scalp and wash off daily. It's typically used to treat psoriasis, but doctors can prescribe it to treat other skin conditions. Anthralin may stimulate new hair growth for cases of alopecia areata. It may take up to 12 weeks for new hair to appear.
Surgery
Hair transplants and scalp reduction surgery are available to treat androgenetic alopecia when more conservative measures have failed. During transplantation a dermatologist or cosmetic surgeon takes tiny plugs of skin, each containing one to several hairs, from the back or side of your scalp. The plugs are then implanted into the bald sections. Several transplant sessions may be needed, as hereditary hair loss progresses with time.
Scalp reduction, as the name implies, means decreasing the area of bald skin on your head. Your scalp and the top part of your head may seem to have a snug fit. But the skin can become flexible and stretched enough for some of it to be surgically removed. After hairless scalp is removed, the space is closed with hair-covered scalp. Doctors can also fold hair-bearing skin over an area of bald skin in a scalp reduction technique called a flap. Scalp reduction can be combined with hair transplantation to fashion a natural-looking hairline in those with more extensive hair loss.
Surgical procedures to treat baldness are expensive and can be painful. Possible risks include infection and scarring. It will take six to eight months before the quality of the new hair can be properly evaluated.
If you're interested in these procedures, consider only board-certified dermatologists, plastic surgeons or cosmetic surgeons, and check local and state medical boards for a record of patient complaints before choosing a doctor. Consult with this doctor to confirm the cause of your hair loss and review all treatment options, including nonsurgical ones, before proceeding with plans for surgery.
Wigs and hairpieces
If you would like an alternative to medical treatment for your baldness or if you don't respond to treatment, you may want to consider wearing a wig or hairpiece. They can be used to cover either permanent or temporary hair loss. Quality, natural-looking wigs and hairpieces are available.
(Source of hair loss treatment information: http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/hair-loss/DS00278/DSECTION=6)
Prevention:
The best prevention action you can take for hair loss it to keep healthy, give you body good nutrition every day and ensure that you have good circulation of blood through the scalp.
These things will be a huge help but if you have a genetic disposition to hair loss or a hormonal imbalance then any prevention measures you take may not be enough to stop the process
When to seek Medical Advice:
There are a number of good medications that will be of great benefit to some individual though not to others.
There is the option of surgical intervention with hair transplants.
If you are taking any of these roads it is highly recommended that you do so under your doctor’s guidance.
Medication should be approved by your doctor and hair transplant is a surgical procedure and while your doctor may not be involved with it directly, their advice will keep you from getting off tack and being caught up in something that will do you long term damage.
Treatment/Therapy:
First of all, remember that consulting with your doctor is very important, because he might be able to recommend things that you haven’t even heard of.
The healthy condition of the hair depends, to a very large extent , on the intake of sufficient amounts of essential nutrients in the daily diet. Hair is made of protein and adequate protein is necessary for luxuriant hair.
Women require 60 grams, men 80 to 90, adolescent boys and girls 80 to 100 grams of protein. It is supplied by milk, buttermilk, yogurt,soyabean, eggs, cheese, meat and fish. A lack of vitamin A may cause the hair to be course and ugly.
A deficiency of some of the B vitamins, of iron, copper and iodine may cause hair disorders like falling of hair and premature greying.
Lack of inositol causes loss of hair. Any person having trouble with his or her hair should eat foods rich in inositol such as yeast, liver and molasses.
Research has, however, shown that women have a low requirement of inositol. Although this vitamin may help to stimulate the growth of a woman’s hair, its lack is probably not a major cause of slow growth . Women are generally deficient in iodine and vitamin B1, either of which can slow down circulation to the scalp to such an extent that hair may fall out and new hair grow in very slowly.
Women who keep their diets adequate in iodine, the B vitamins and iron have a better growth of hair.
According to Adelle Davis, a world famous nutritionist, "increasing the intake of protein, particularly of liver, wheat germ and yeast, and supplementing the diet with a teaspoon of inositol daily usually stops a man’s hair from falling, and I have seen three or four persons whose hair became thick after these improvements were made. "
Persons with a tendency to lose hair should thus take a well balanced and correct diet, made up of foods which in combination should supply all the essential nutrients.
It has been found that a diet which contains liberal quantities of: ( i) seeds, nuts and grains, ( ii) vegetables and (iii) fruits would provide adequate amounts of all the essential nutrients.
Each food group should roughly form the bulk of one of the three principal meals. These foods should , however, be supplemented with certain special foods such as milk, vegetable oils, honey, wheat germ, yeast and liver. Falling of Hair http://www.healthlibrary.com/reading/ncure/chap47.htm (1 of 2) [5/19/1999 9:23:56 PM]
Self Care strategies for Living with hair loss
Diet change strategies:
One of the best things you can do for your hair is to ensure that you have everything it needs delivered to it, all the vitamins, minerals, botanical factors, everything it needs on a daily basis.
Unfortunately our modern lifestyle damages our capacity to process our food. The most common cause for doctor’s visits in the western world is lack of energy. This indicates that the nutrition in the food we eat (if we eat well) is NOT being delivered down to our cells.
If the nutrition is not getting to the cells to keep us strong then it is not getting to your hair.
This is such a major issue that we have an article explaining how the process of getting nutrition to your cells works and I suggest you take a few minutes now and read it.
You will find it here; Nutrition For Your Cells.
Vitamin & Nutrient Associations
Over the years I have seen a host of people get themselves onto a nutrition program for weight loss and add Omega 3 oils to it to improve their cardio-vascular system.
It is quite common for people using such products to experience improved nails and improved hair.
In ladies this often shows as hair thickening and looking healthier, fewer (if any) split ends and a general improvement in wellbeing.
In men it often leads to hair regenerating and thickening and quite often thin fuzzy hair regrowing on bald pates and the body improves itself and attempts to recover from it’s lack of wellness.
In about 1/3 of cases it appears that the underlying problem with hair loss is poor circulation to the scalp. In those cases most people respond extremely well to use of Omege 3 & 6 fatty acid fish oil capsules.
We wish you well in your search for solutions to this problem and your movement towards better health in all areas.
Resources :
Free Report Reveals tips for “Eat Right! Using Good Nutrition to Prevent Hair Loss”
Free Health Book.
- Living & Dealing with Hair loss or Baldness.
Hair loss is something that over half of the men in this world (and a lot of women too) will have to deal with at some point in their lives.
Click the link above or book cover to get your free Report & eCourse today!
Below here are examples of Health Success Results other people have had with using a self care strategy for dealing with keyword:
We would be very interested to hear your result stories with your problem if you are using some of our nutrition products. To send us your story just fill out the form below
Share *YOUR* remedy & health success story!
We are on a world-wide mission to source and tell our readers about as many as possible of the natural remedies & self care strategies available, so please help us to grow and improve our health information on this subject.
If you have a proven home remedy or natural treatment or have a great Health Success story, we would love to share it with our readers.
And as a special "Thank You" for your contribution, we will give you our special edition "Health Success Report"!
(When you submit this article you agree to the ***GENERAL RELEASE below this form)
Enter Your Title or Health Problem Subject
Tell Us Your Story! [ ? ]
Close Help
Entering your story is easy to do. Just type!...
Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you enter it here.
If you know basic html you can also apply it to your text here.
Upload A Picture (optional - .jpg only)[ ? ]
Close Help
Do you have a picture to add? Great! Click the button and find it on your computer. Then select it.
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Click here to upload more images (optional)
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional)
Author Information (optional)
To receive credit as the author, enter your information below.
Your Name
(first or full name)
Your Location
(e.g., City, State, Country)
Submit Your Contribution
Check box to agree to these submission guidelines.
I am at least 16 years of age.
I understand and accept the privacy policy.
I understand that you will display my submission on your website.
(You can preview and edit on the next page)
Click here to see the rest of the form and complete your submission.
See below here what stories & resources have been contributed on this subject:
Click below to see contributions from other visitors to this page...
Most Common Supplements that Can Help Treat Hair Loss
Hair loss is something that everyone dreads because the effects are almost always irreversible. It is very unlikely for someone who is over fifty to have …
Is Aloe Vera Effective in Treating Hair Loss?
On average, we lose approximately 100 strands of hair per day. Seeing a few strays of hair on your hairbrush or on your bathroom floor is perfectly normal. …
How Serious Is Your Hair Loss
Any person who begins noticing a significant thinning of the hair is naturally concerned as to the seriousness of the condition. On average, a person can …
How To Restore Lost Hair Naturally
Are you losing hair? If so, you will be glad there are natural ways to reduce hair loss. You can have thick hair once again by following these few simple …
Great Tips To Help Prevent Hair Loss
One of the worst fear that men have as they age is that they will start to lose their hair. While shaving your head can be liberating, it is not nearly …
Hair Loss During Chemotherapy
It is not bad enough that we have to undergo sometimes very unpleasant chemotherapy treatments for cancer, but it simply is not fair that we also have …
Losing Hair? Here Are Ways to Get Your Hair Back
Losing your hair can be extremely upsetting. Millions of men and women around the world suffer from hair loss. A large majority of them are looking for …
How To Prevent Hair Loss
As you age you are more likely to experience hair loss. Instead of waiting until you actually start losing hair to figure out how to grow it back prevent …
Hair Loss Tips You Need
Thousands of people around the world currently suffer from hair loss. Although the reasons that they are experiencing hair loss may be very different from …
Foods For Healthier Hair
Many are seeking ways to prevent hair loss. The truth is, our hair changes as we age. As we get older we lose more hair and we tend to begin noticing it …
How To Deal With Hair Loss
Hair loss is something that a lot of men will have to deal with at some point in their life. Unfortunately, it is something that can become very crippling …
Hair Loss And You
Hair loss is one of the most widespread hereditary afflictions around the world. Millions of individuals have suffered or are suffering from hereditary …
Fighting Hair Loss
For some, the first sign of hair loss can be alarming. No one wants to see their hair fall out strand by strand, especially if they feel there is nothing …
How Hair Restoration Procedures Combat Baldness
Balding is something that embarrasses many people that have it. They feel as though everyone is looking at their spots of missing or thinning hair. Many …
Hair Loss and The Way to Combat It
Hair loss is something that affects millions of people, and conversely there are a multitude of interesting approaches on how to overcome this condition. …
Top Hair Loss Myths
Men who are starting to show pattern baldness is a problem that is very common in today's day and age. By the time most men reach the age of 60, the appearance …
Hair Loss And The Different Treatments Available
Hair loss is a devastating condition which plagues males and females of all ages and all walks of life. The medical term is alopecia, and it is not entirely …
Preventing Hair Loss
id you know you could take precaution to prevent hair loss? Although hair loss is hereditary you can make an effort to prevent your head from having to …
Hair Loss 101: Treating Male Pattern Baldness
Male pattern baldness affects millions of men all over the world. The process of thinning hair and baldness, can cause men to lose confidence in themselves …
Causes and Treatments Of Hair Loss
Nearly eighty million American women and men suffer from hereditary hair loss or alopecia. Alopecia can impact more than just the hair on the head, it …
Types Of Hair Loss And Treatments
Many people, particularly females, treat hair as if it is the most important aspect of their physical appearance. They pay a significant amount of attention …
Identifying The Various Types Of Hair Loss
We all grow hair everywhere on our skin except a few places, such as our lips, palms of our hands, and palms of our feet. Much of our hair is so small …
How To Fight Hair Loss Efficiently
Losing your hair is a natural effect of aging but you can do a few things to slow down your hair loss. You can in fact completely stop this process by …
Deal With Hair Loss Naturally With These Exotic Tips
Today western medicine has come up with lots of spectacular ways to deal with hair loss. You can have surgery, use hair growing creams and potions or take …
Click here to write your own.
Can Hair Loss Be Caused By Medications We Take?
Medications have become a necessary evil. We need them to treat various ailments that we develop over the course of our lives. The problem is that all …
Natural Remedies for Hair Loss
Hair loss is a serious problem for most men at their young ages. Some men would lose their hair at the tender age of 20's. Hair loss would be natural for …
Hair Loss and Your Best Options To Stop It
If you're someone who's losing their hair, you're in good company since countless people around the world, especially men, are experiencing the effects …
Best Ways To Solve Your Hair Loss Dilemma
Hair loss seemed to sneak up on me. I never paid much attention as my hair thinned as I aged until one day a friend started joking about the shiny spot …
Possible Causes Of Hair Loss
Hair loss can be a disease in itself, but it can also be a secondary effect of other illnesses. This is why it is important to see your doctor before attempting …
Stop Hair Loss Now By Using Natural Hair Loss Shampoos
There are many physical aspects of life which we must face - middle age spread, wrinkles, fading eye sight. It is a natural process of aging and, unfortunately, …
Hair Loss Today
Today we know a lot more about hair loss, its symptoms and remedies than ever before. Generally speaking more men lose their hair than women. Alopecia …
Five Efficient Ways To Stop Hair Loss
Hair loss is a common symptom of aging but there are different things you can try in order to stop this process. You should go over the following article …
All You Need To Know About Hair Loss Treatments
Hair loss or hair thinning is a common problem for many adults throughout the globe. There are numerous reasons for hair loss, each differing from individual …
What To Do If You Lose Your Hair
Losing your hair is a natural part of the aging process. You should not feel bad about yourself if your hairline starts receding, but there are a few things …
Trying Natural Remedies To Fight Hair Loss
Nothing is more disheartening to find that you are starting to develop thinning hair. For both men and women, dealing with hair loss is something that …
Stopping Hair Loss For Good
Are you looking for a way to get rid of your hair loss problem? In most cases, you can stop hair loss by getting rid of your bad habits. Go over the following …
What Causes Hair Loss In Women
The symptoms of hair loss are more related to the failure to produce more hair than they are to the loss of the hair we already have. Hair loss in men …
Some Helpful Tips For Women Who Are Losing Their Hair
There are many of options available on the market for men who are losing their hair, but not as many for women. While this may seem a bit unfair, the truth …
The View From The Top - Hair Loss
There can be no worse feeling for either a man or a woman to see increasing amounts of hair left behind on the comb, or clogging up the shower drain. It …
The Psychological Causes Behind Hair Loss
Hair loss or alopecia is a physical disorder which takes form in the, well, loss of one's hair. Although it can occur anywhere on one's body, the hair …
The Dichotomy Of Hair Loss And Hair Removal
We live in a society with many different types of dichotomies one of which is the way in which we approach the natural appearance of hair on our bodies. …
Essential Hair Accessory Tips
In the 80s, the hair accessory was invaluable. Almost every style involved some sort of hair accessory or embellishment to really set it off. Today, …
Essential Hair "Do's". New Survey Reveals American Women's Hair Care Habits
Long gone are the days of the weekly "wash and set" at the beauty parlor. Today-no matter what type of hair you have-there are products and hairstyles …
Curling Irons Are As Individual As The Women Who Use Them
When it comes to looking your best, there are some standard tools of the trade. You will want to find the right makeup for your complexion. You'll want …
Combing Hair: 10 Tips for Proper Hair Combing
Most people consider hair combing a routine activity. There are people who keep a particular hair style throughout their life. On the other hand, younger …
Celebrity Hair Styles – Think Before You Copy!
Ever turn on the television and become instantly infatuated with the latest celebrity hair style sported by Jennifer Aniston or other highly-emulated celebrities? …
Celebrity Colorist Shares Insider Tips For Maintaining Beautiful Hair Color
Every season, women take a page from fashion magazines and update their clothes, shoes and makeup while overlooking their greatest accessory: hair color. …
Buying Your Shampoo – Three Myths to Avoid
More often than not, we are besieged with commercial advertisements that claim to do miraculous work with their different brands of shampoos. Million …
Beautiful Hairstyles with Hair Extensions and Hair Weaves
Long, silky, healthy hair can radiate beauty, fitness and youth. A change of hairstyle is often enough to make you look more sophisticated, younger or …
Click here to write your own.
6 Steps to Super Sleek Stylish Hair
Whether you want to look great for a party and have all afternoon to get ready, or just want to smarten up before a meeting, there are things to do to …
10 Definite Don’ts Of Great Hair Care
If the amount of money consumers spend on hair care products annually is any indication, most people are concerned about the appearance of their hair and …
5 Steps To Perfect Hair
Your hair is your crowning glory. Look after it and it will shine for all the world to see. You don’t always need expensive treatments, or visits to …
Baldness Cures and Treatments
The most common cause of hair loss, especially in men, is androgenetic, or male pattern baldness. Mid-teens or puberty starts the ‘balding’ process for …
Balding Cures - Scams or Not?
If you’re one of the millions of men and women who are balding, you’re probably paying an incredible amount of attention to the many companies touting …
Loss of Hair Can Be Humiliating
For many people around the world, loss of hair can be humiliating, traumatic, and downright depressing. If you’re having a loss of hair, you aren’t alone …
Stop Hair Loss Immediately
Having hair loss problems? Often times, it’s so hard to stop hair loss permanently, people just give up and go bald without finding a solution. In order …
Which Hair Loss Products Work Best?
There are many hair loss products out there that claim that they’re the best, but which actually are? If you are suffering from hair loss, you know better …
Are There Natural Hair Loss Remedies?
If you’re having hair loss problems and want to know if there are any natural hair loss remedies, you’ll be happy to know that there are! There are many …
Female Hair Loss Causes and Treatments
Female hair loss is often premature - occurring between ages 30 and 40. If you’re suffering from female hair loss, you aren’t the only one. Over 20 million …
For Women, Hair Loss Is Traumatic
Hair loss isn’t easy for anyone, especially women. Women find a sense of identity in their hair. You feel beautiful with your locks of golden, nut-brown, …
Hair Loss Causes
Feeling upset about your current hair loss? It’s hard to be young and losing your hair. Hair gives you a sense of identity. It makes you feel like a beautiful …
Did You Know Stress Causes Hair Loss?
Stress causes hair loss, but did you know it’s the leading cause? There are many things that affect the hair growth in your system but stress is the best-known …
Hair Loss Prevention for Men
Whether you’re young or old, hair loss is never easy for men. Over 25 million American males are affected by hair loss every single year. If you’re suffering …
Hair Loss Treatment Options
Having hair loss problems? You aren’t alone. About 30% of people around the world suffer from hair loss by the age of 30. If you’re wondering what your …
The Cheap And Simple Way To Achieve Straight Hair
You can have straight hair by going to the salon and having lots of awful chemicals put through your hair, but do you really want harmful chemicals in …
Four Helpful Tips To Avoid Hair Loss In Men
For many men it is inevitable that they will lose their hair as they get older. For a long time it was just accepted as one of those things in life that …
How to Grow Hair Fast: An Introduction
The question of how to grow hair fast is something many of us want answers to. The hair growth industry is worth $1.5 billion in America alone, and is …
How to Grow Hair Faster: 5 Different Methods
The question of how to grow hair faster is something that has baffled men and women for decades. The truth is that, whilst some of us seem to be blessed …
Using A Vitamin For Hair Growth: Will It Really Work?
Whether you’re suffering from hair loss, or just want that bad haircut to grow out, you may have considered using a vitamin for hair growth. There is much …
Reasons Why People Go Bald
It is very common for men to encounter hair loss. In fact, there are studies that show that beginning at the age of 30s most men will encounter some hair …
Your Health Online | Hair Transplant Surgery 101
For many people there are nutritional answers to improving circulation and general health to keep hair healthy and strong. Despite this though, it’s an …
How You Can Boost your Self-Confidence Despite Hair Loss
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Many people …
Your Health Online | Coping with hair loss
Hair loss is one of the most difficult things to cope with especially to people who are very particular about the appearance. But this doesn?t mean that …
Your Health Online Hair Care Tips for Dandruff Using Zinc
One of the more embarrassing things that can happen to us is for us to have a bad case of dandruff. Dandruff can happen for a number of different reasons …
Click here to write your own.
Natural Remedies for Women Who Suffer from Hair Loss
People often relate the thinning hair phenomenon to the male sex. In reality, some women actually suffer from this dilemma. In fact, thinning hair makes …
Care for Your Hair
Oftentimes, people splurge on skincare to make themselves look and feel younger. Oftentimes, they forget about their hair. This is your crowning glory, …
Your Health Online | Dealing With Thinning Hair
Many people suffer from baldness, men and women alike. It’s a much too common problem these days. So if you do notice that you are on your way to becoming …
Your Health Online | Male Pattern Baldness
Significant amount of money has been spent on finding the most effective cure for hair loss. Men, in particular, suffer from this dilemma. Your hair …
Precautions to be taken while combing hair
Hair combing is a routine activity of almost all people.Some people keep a particular hair style throughout their life and some especially younger generation …
Precautions to be taken while combing hair
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Hair combing …
Hair Care for Life
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies There …
Vitamins That Help With Hair Growth
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Vitamins …
Healthy Hair Vitamins
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Healthy …
Damaged hair growth care
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Homemade …
Important Herbs for Hair Loss
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Important …
Herbal treatments for hair
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Herbal …
Hair Conditioner Recipe
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Hair …
Hair Care Home Remedies
A health article from Your Health Online the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & nutritional Self Care Strategies Hair …
Click here to write your own.
Subscribe to “Your Health Success” free newsletter
*** GENERAL RELEASE AND ASSIGNMENT
For good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, I ("I", "me", "my") hereby agree as follows:
1) I hereby grant to Warren Tattersall, his successors, assignees and licensees the unlimited right, but not the obligation, to use any statements made by or attributed to me (my "Statements") as well as my name, voice, and likeness, performance, personal characteristics and other identifying information (jointly and severally with the Statements and the photographs referenced in Paragraph 2 below, my "Personal Characteristics") in and in connection with the advertising, promotion, marketing and other exploitation of Herbalife products or Warren Tattersall’s services in any and all languages and media, now known or hereafter devised, throughout the universe in perpetuity.
2) If I supply Warren Tattersall with photographs of myself on this date or any date subsequent, I agree that Warren Tattersall may use such photographs to the full extent provided above, I warrant and represent that I am the person depicted in the photograph, I am the owner of the photograph, I have the authority to grant the permission and rights granted herein, and no one else’s permission is required to grant such rights, and I understand that the copy of the photograph(s) I supply to Warren Tattersall will not be returned.
3) I understand that Warren Tattersall is not obligated to use my Personal Characteristics as permitted herein or, if commenced, to continue with such use in any territory. I acknowledge and agree that Warren Tattersall may make my Personal Characteristics available to Warren Tattersall’s independent distributors to use as permitted above.
4) In undertaking the act of submitting my words and images through www.TheHealthSuccessSite.com I understand that I am agreeing the terms and conditions of this agreement
I have read this entire General Release and Assignment and fully understand his contents. I likewise understand that this document shall remain in full force and effect unless/until I request that it be terminated, and that any such request must be made in a signed writing. By signing below, I hereby acknowledge and agree to the foregoing.
I understand that in submitting my material for publication I am granting the rights to reproduce this material on the internet or in other form and I have read the conditions above
BACK TO “Your Health Online”
the A to Z directory of dealing with Health Problems & Self Care Strategies for natural remedies to your health issues.
============================================================
SITE DISCLAIMER: Do these products “cure” anything? Of course not… but it stands to reason that if you cleanse your body and feed it the finest nutrition available, giving it everything it needs in balance, on a daily basis, that your body will do what nature intended, and give you the best possible chance to fend off sickness and disease. This hair loss information is not presented by a medical practitioner and is for educational and informational purposes only. The content is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any hair loss questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read.
The hair loss resources on this site are not intended to be a substitute for professional advice. While all attempts have been made to verify information provided in this publication, neither the author nor the publisher assumes any responsibility for errors, omissions or contrary interpretation of the web site hair loss subject matter herein. The site hair loss contents are solely the opinion of the authors and should not be considered as a form of advice, direction and/or recommendation of any kind. If expert advice or counseling is needed, services of a competent professional should be sought. The author and the Publisher assume no responsibility or liability and specifically disclaim any warranty, express or implied for any products or services mentioned, or any techniques or hair loss practices described.
The purchaser or reader of this publication assumes responsibility for the use of these hair loss materials and information. Neither the author nor the Publisher assumes any responsibility or liability whatsoever on the behalf of any purchaser or reader of these hair loss materials. There is no guarantee of validity of accuracy. Any perceived slight of specific people or organizations is unintentional. This website and its creators are not responsible for the content of any sites linked to. Since natural and/or dietary supplements are not FDA approved they must be accompanied by a two-part disclaimer on the product label: that the statement has not been evaluated by FDA and that the product is not intended to "diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease."
===========================================================
Back to Top of your health online hair loss page
Subscribe to “Your Health Success” newsletter
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer |