A Caffeine and L-Theanine Test And Review! - Axtschmiede
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Home
My Books
PEAK: Neuroscientific Way To Self-Improvement
Shattered: Break Your Illusions
About
Library
Archives
Privacy Policy
Axtschmiede
Sharp Words For Your Mind
A Caffeine and L-Theanine Test And Review!
Monday, Sep 24 2018 8:16AM by Timo
Disclaimer: This is a sponsored Post! Focus Supplements were kind enough to give me their Caffeine and L-Theanine capsules as well as the D Mannose for testing!
There are negative side effects of caffeine… by itself.
Don’t believe me? Well, then keep on reading!
The combination of caffeine and L-Theanine is considered by many to be the best place for a beginner to start with nootropics.
The reason caffeine and L-theanine are useful is because of the simplicity and amount of data supporting that combination.
L-Theanine is an amino acid found primarily in green tea (but also in other types). Caffeine is found in coffee, cocoa, and there is even some in tea as well. Combined, these two ingredients create some magical things for us.
The Ultimate Combination! L-Theanine and Caffeine
Caffeine and L-Theanine by Focus Supplements
What makes L-Theanine and caffeine together so great?
One simple but important word – Synergy.
Caffeine is great for concentration, improving attention, and focus, I guess that most of us knew that BUT caffeine also has some major downsides! Such as, increased heart rate, blood pressure, and anxious/jittery feelings.
Now if we throw L-Theanine into the mix, the magic happens! L-Theanine is a relaxant that can reduce heart rate and blood pressure, promote alpha brain waves (associated with relaxation) and provide balance for the brain to avoid jitters.
When you start taking those two together you can concentrate on your work more effectively, be more creative, and achieve more success with the absence of headaches, crashes, and anxiety. The combination gives you the power to perform better and if you have been reading my site or books then you know that THIS is what I am all about! Improving PERFORMANCE.
Safety Concerns
The combination of those two is highly researched and has tons of evidence that is 1) Safe and 2) Works perfectly fine.
Hence, combining L-theanine and caffeine is incredibly safe.
There are many independent studies on caffeine cited on Examine.com alone. The side effects of caffeine are well documented as well.
L-Theanine also has a great safety track record. The United States Food and Drug Association (FDA) considers L Theanine G.R.A.S. – “generally regarded as safe”, which is a rare distinction. High doses in animals doesn’t cause toxicity.
L-Theanine The Underdog
L-Theanine definitely falls under the category of “under the radar” supplements that can dramatically improve your brain health.
You know that feeling of “flow“ you get where work effortlessly flows through you? Usually, that happens when your brain is in an alpha wave state. One of the L-theanine benefits is an increase of alpha brain waves, which promotes relaxed, creative, and stress free thinking.
Who is L-Theanine and Caffeine for?
L-Theanine and Caffeine can be used by anyone, but it’s becoming especially popular for students who are looking to get an extra edge in the classroom. When finals season is coming up, and taking test after test starts becoming exhausting, finding supplements that can help boost your brain power, enhance your focus, and aid in memory retention can be extremely useful.
However, this stack can be used by just about anyone. If you’re an office worker this can be important as well. Sitting at a desk all day working on spreadsheets can be extremely monotonous, but using this can be beneficial to those looking to increase motivation.
L-Theanine and Caffeine isn’t just for students and office workers. It’s great for athletes as well. L-Theanine has been found to help increase blood flow and reduce fatigue.
Taking L-Theanine and Caffeine Daily
If you’re not convinced yet, you should be. The effects that L-Theanine and Caffeine can bring collectively to enhance your cognition is remarkable. I’ve been taking this nootropic stack nearly daily now and I don’t feel as if I’ll be stopping anytime soon. It brings me a smooth, clean energy throughout the day that I can’t say no to.
You can buy the stack individually or you can buy it mixed in as one clean dose. I prefer to take the pills that are all combined as I find it more convenient for me instead of taking several different pills to achieve the same effect.
I have been taking the Focus Supplements Caffeine and L-Theanine stack for a while now, and I just can’t beat the price. Each dose contains 100mg of caffeine and 250mg of L-Theanine, which has been found to be the optimum dosage of these two powerful supplements.
In conclusion, if you’re looking for increased mental focus, improved memory recall, improved reaction time, enhanced visual/spatial awareness, increased muscle dexterity, and an enhanced attention span, give this combination a try. I guarantee you’ll feel its effects on the first day and you’ll be instantly turned on to the idea of taking L-Theanine and Caffiene together regularly.
Getting Started with Caffeine and L-Theanine
When getting started with a caffeine + L-Theanine supplement, there is a proper ratio you must try to maintain. Numerous studies show the caffeine L Theanine ratio must be 1:2.
This caffeine theanine ratio is best for improving your concentration and alertness while reducing the negative side effects and jitters.
There is approximately 100 mg in a single cup of coffee, but sometimes that can still be a bit much. Then I add 160 mg of L-theanine. This L-theanine dosage is regarded as the best for your L-theanine and caffeine combination.
However, if you want to buy and ignore all the stress of taking the right amount then I can only advice you to get the capsules from Focussupplements. They are pre-made with the perfect dosage and I take 1-2 daily depending on how much work I need to get done. Stress free and it works like a charm! You can go and get them yourself right here on Amazon! Caffeine and L-theanine Capsules!
As I mentioned earlier, unlike other nootropics, L theanine and caffeine isn’t cost prohibitive to nearly anyone. For a 2 month supply of caffeine and L theanine you only have to pay a couple of cents per day!!
That is less than two quarters to improve your concentration and achieve more success while preventing negative side effects and feelings of caffeine.
What Else Could I use Besides Caffeine and L-Theanine?
For the curious ones, there are plenty of ways to use caffeine and L-theanine as a ground of your nootropic stack. Some people choose to use this combination daily because caffeine is one of the most impactful components for stimulation.
In addition to caffeine and L-theanine, it’s possible to focus on different cognitive processes. For example, some people have concentration covered with this basic stack and decide to add memory enhancers. A good combination for memory enhancement and learning is piracetam, aniracetam, or phenylpiracetam combined with choline sources like Alpha GPC or CDP choline.
D Mannose by Focus Supplements
I for one also use D Mannose to get rid of nasty bacteria and stay safe from infections, also it helps you to keep a healthy bladder. Some people even have genetic defects which prevents them from splitting Mannose correctly so taking D Mannose is even more important for those, again and as always get in contact with your doctor to see if you might need D Mannose.
Be conscious of stacking stimulants on top of each other stimulant especially for those who are sensitive. Adding modafinil on top of this combination could actually create adrenal fatigue and other side effects that are not positive long-term (this includes the cousins adrafinil and armodafinil).
Starting with caffeine and L-theanine is a good idea, but as many nootropics enthusiasts found out, it is easy to go down the rabbit hole and create even more effective nootropic stacks for yourself.
Medical Disclaimer: While we support psychedelic science and support usage of entheogens like ayahuasca (DMT) and psilocybin, it is recommended to avoid using other substances such as caffeine alongside them. We do not recommend using them together and as always, before taking anything that you are unsure about, consult your Doctor first!
The Science Behind Caffeine and L-Theanine
“Caffeine as an attention enhancer: reviewing existing assumptions.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23241646
“Effects of caffeine on cognition and mood without caffeine abstinence.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7675951
“Effects of a single, oral 60 mg caffeine dose on attention in healthy adult subjects.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27649778
“L-theanine, a natural constituent in tea, and its effects on mental state.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18296328
“Anti-stress effect of theanine on students during pharmacy practice: positive correlation among salivary α-amylase activity, trait anxiety and subjective stress.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24051231
“A double-blind placebo-controlled study evaluating the effects of caffeine and L-theanine both alone and in combination on cerebral blood flow, cognition and mood.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25761837
“Time for tea: mood, blood pressure and cognitive performance effects of caffeine and theanine administered alone and together.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17891480
“Cognitive effects of two nutraceuticals Ginseng and Bacopa benchmarked against modafinil: a review and comparison of effect sizes.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23043278
“The effects of L-theanine, caffeine and their combination on cognition and mood.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18006208
“The combination of L-theanine and caffeine improves cognitive performance and increases subjective alertness.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21040626
“Theanine and caffeine seem to have additive effects on attention in high doses”. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26869148
“These results replicate previous evidence which suggests that L-theanine and caffeine in combination are beneficial for improving performance on cognitively demanding tasks”. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18681988
“In addition to improving Rapid Visual Information Processing accuracy and ‘mental fatigue’ ratings, the combination led to faster simple reaction time, faster numeric working memory reaction time and improved sentence verification accuracy. ‘Headache’ and ‘tired’ ratings were reduced and ‘alert’ ratings increased.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18006208
“The combination of L-theanine and caffeine significantly improved attention on a switch-task as compared to the placebo.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20079786
“We found an increase in hit rate and target discriminability (d’) for the combined treatment relative to the placebo”. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18641209
“The present results suggest that L-theanine in combination with Caffeine helps to focus attention during a demanding cognitive task.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21040626
“Evidence of moderate effect sizes in favor of combined caffeine and L-theanine in the first 2 hours postdose were found for outcome measures Bond-Lader alertness, attentional switching accuracy, and to a lesser extent, some unisensory and multisensory attentional outcomes.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24946991
Filed Under: Men's Health And Fitness Tagged With: Caffeine, Caffeine and L-Theanine, Focus supplements, L-Theanine, nootropic, nootropics, review, testing
Reader Interactions
Primary Sidebar
My Books!
The Best And Most Reliable Hosting Service
Recent Posts
Branding efforts that pay off – how to improve the image of your business
3 Most Common Myths About Making Money from Blogging
8 Ways to Find A Better Job
Top 4 Reasons Why You Should Eat Healthy
Are You Past Due for a Career Shake-Up?
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
Copyright © 2019 · Magazine Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in
brave-ledger-verification=5dd8bcbe9300741a6b77fcfae08cc7c8b68fe37856370a4bd7305c2713e03287