Natural Remedies for Osteoarthritis - Natural Cures
Skip to content. | Skip to navigation
Site Map
Accessibility
Contact
Google Custom Search
Search Shared-Care's Natural Cures Therapist Lists
Natural Cures from Shared Care
Sections
Home
Problems
Natural Cures - Therapies
MP3 Downloads
Articles
Shared Care's Web Publications
Travel
Personal tools
Log in
You are here: Home → Problems → Health Problems → Natural Remedies for Osteoarthritis
Natural Cures
Why do we use the terms "natural remedies", "therapy" and "natural cure" interchangeably? Find out more here!
These pages are NOT a medical textbook. A doctor MUST confirm any diagnosis.
Navigation
Home
Problems
Health Problems
Arthritis
Natural Remedies for ADHD
Natural Remedies for Acne
Natural Remedies for Allergies
Natural Remedies for Anxiety and Panic Attacks
Natural Remedies for Asthma
Natural Remedies for Autism
Natural Remedies for Back Pain
Natural Remedies for Bed Wetting
Natural Remedies for Cancer
Natural Remedies for CFS
Natural Remedies for Depression
Natural Remedies for Diabetes
Natural Remedies for Eczema
Natural Remedies for Endometriosis
Natural Remedies for Fibromyalgia
Natural Remedies for Food Intolerance
Natural Remedies for Hayfever
Natural Remedies for Headache
Natural Remedies for High Blood Pressure
Natural Remedies for IBS
Natural Remedies for Incontinence
Natural Remedies for Infertility
Natural Remedies for Insomnia
Natural Remedies for MS
Natural Remedies for Menopause
Natural Remedies for Migraine
Other Health Issues
Natural Remedies for Osteoarthritis
Natural Remedies for Phobias
Natural Remedies for PMS
Natural Remedies for Psoriasis
Rare Diseases
Natural Remedies for Rheumatoid Arthritis
Quit Smoking
Natural Remedies for Stroke
Natural Remedies for Tinnitus
Natural Remedies for Weight Loss
Problems of Life
Natural Cures - Therapies
MP3 Downloads
Articles
Shared Care's Web Publications
Travel
Featured Article
Navigating Your Path to Health
Why is health such a vague and elusive goal for so many of us?
Advertisement
Shared care uses cookies to enhance your experience of our site. See Shared Care's Cookie Policy
Advertisement
Advertisement
Positive Thinking Skills MP3 Downloads
Research has shown that 68 out of 88 people (77%) who used self-hypnosis - positive thinking skills techniques had clinically significant improvement.
Now YOU can download the same techniques for Acne and also A Slimmer You, Agoraphobia, Back Pain, Carers, Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Migraine, Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder, Panic Attacks/Anxiety, Premenstrual Tension, Relaxation/Sleep - FREE DOWNLOAD as an MP3 file.
Contents Please click on the section name to access it.
[What Helps Osteoarthritis] [Who Helps Osteoarthritis] [Support Groups] [Home Remedies and Interesting Articles] [Where You Can Eat, Stay and Visit]
Document Actions
Natural Remedies for Osteoarthritis
Mike Matthews, Author and Editor of Shared Care - Google+ Profile
Last modified 2013-12-31 13:50
What is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is the most common, painful and frequently disabling form of arthritis, a general term describing various diseases characterized by tender, painful, swollen and stiff joints. Osteoarthritis occurs when the cartilage that covers the end of bone joints is cumulatively worn down by daily wear and tear, and can cause small, irregular growths (bone spurs) to form on the joints.
Osteoarthritis Symptoms
Osteoarthritis typically affects the weight-bearing joints (hips and knees), hands, feet and spine, and is linked to risk factors like aging, gender, excess weight, genetics and associated diseases including infections, diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis most commonly occurs in women and people over the ages of 45-50 years old, but is prevalent among all races.
For related information, see rheumatoid arthritis and back pain.
Introduction provided by Spine-health: For additional information on this condition, visit their health centers on osteoarthritis.
More detailed information about Osteoarthritis
What Helps Osteoarthritis?
An Overview of Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common degenerative condition in the hip or knee joint that can cause you to need a joint replacement. This video will explain the causes of Osteoarthritis and the different treatment options available to treated Osteoarthritis
Natural Cures from Shared Care is not responsible for any advertisements contained in these videos
Osteoarthritis Treatment
Medication
It should be known that there are no proven treatments for osteoarthritis of the spine. With that said, patients may take a variety of medications to achieve pain relief from osteoarthritis, including acetaminophen like Tylenol and NSAIDs (non-steroidal inflammatory drugs) like aspirin (Bayer, Ecotrin), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nupren), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, Anaprox, Naprelan).
Osteoarthritis may also be treated via many pain-relieving creams, rubs and sprays, cortisone injections, mild narcotic painkillers and nutritional supplements. Besides medications, osteoarthritis may be treated with exercise, physical therapy, chiropractic manipulation, massage therapy, relaxation, nerve stimulation, acupuncture and lifestyle changes. While rare, surgery may be needed for spinal osteoarthritis when the joint is unstable or a nerve root is pinched.
Home Remedies and Relevant Articles from our Contributors
Home remedies are anything from "homework", food or nutritional supplements, exercises, reading, our featured articles and so on. Natural Remedies from Shared Care offers:-
Selfhelp Books for Osteoarthritis Priced in GB pounds
Other Products for Osteoarthritis Priced in GB pounds
Selfhelp Books for Osteoarthritis Priced in US Dollars
Other Products for Osteoarthritis Priced in US Dollars
Obesity And Osteoarthritis: How Strong Is The Connection? Evidence that obesity and osteoarthritis are linked and an overview
Weight Loss: Effective Treatment For Osteoarthritis? That weight loss is an effective treatment for osteoarthritis is demonstrated here by Dr Matthew Constantin
Natural Cures for Osteoarthritis
We explain what we mean by natural cures, natural remedies, home remedies.
These help Osteoarthritis:-
Acupuncture Full list of touching therapies group
Ayurveda Full list of world therapies group
BodyTalk Full list of talking therapies group
Chiropractic Full list of touching therapies group
Homeopathy Full list of tablet therapies group
Massage Full list of touching therapies group
Nutritional Therapy Full list of toxin detection therapies group
Osteopathy Full list of touching therapies group
Reiki Full list of other therapies group
Shiatsu Full list of touching therapies group
T'ai Chi Full list of teaching therapies group
Please also check out Approaches Individual to the Practitioner for other therapies and treatments.
[top of page]
Who Can Help Osteoarthritis?
Who has a Special Interest in Osteoarthritis?
Please click on the MORE INFORMATION link for fuller details.
Dr. Peter Zilahy Watertown, Connecticut, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Ms. Pamela Bellamy Roswell, Georgia, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Ms. Linda Meyer Lake in the Hills, Illinois, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Mrs. Janine L. Agoglia Natick, Massachusetts, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Mr. Bryan Watrous Missoula, Montana, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Dr. Kathryn J Hahn Santa Fe, New Mexico, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Ms. Anca Marinescu New York, New York, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Dr. Vittoria Repetto New York City, New York, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Mr. Robert Balkind Greensboro, North Carolina, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Ms. Patricia Hallam Portland, Oregon, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
Ms. Anca Marinescu Dingmans Ferry, Pennsylvania, United States of America MORE INFORMATION
[top of page]
Osteoarthritis Support Groups
The home country of the group is listed. Most will provide more information, advice, contacts and help wherever you live:-
Arthritis Foundation of Western Australia Australia Western Australia
Arthritis Victoria Australia Victoria
The Arthritis Society Canada National
Arthritis Care Great Britain National
Arthritis Research UK Great Britain National
Pain Relief Foundation Great Britain National
Arthritis Ireland Ireland National
Arthritis Ireland Ireland National
Arthritis New Zealand New Zealand National
Arthritis Foundation United States of America National
ArthritisSupport.com United States of America National
Please email editor(at)shared-care.com with the name and URL of your suggestions for additional groups.
[top of page]
Where You Can Eat, Stay and Visit
Help in finding restaurants, cafes, hotels, resorts, towns, beaches, travel companies and so on that are user friendly for our communities.
Places to Eat and Stay
People with Mobility Difficulties People with Children People with Visual Impairment People with Allergies and Intolerances
Tourist Attractions
People with Mobility Difficulties People with Children People with Visual Impairment
Towns
People with Mobility Difficulties
Travel Services
People with Mobility Difficulties People with Children People with Visual Impairment The Big and Tall, Short and Small Community
[top of page]
Other Helpful Things
Tweet
BBC Health News Find us on Google+ CNN Health News
[top of page]
Natural Cures from Shared Care's Smallprint
Mission Statement General Disclaimer Community Forum Notes Terms of Business
About Editorial Board and Authors Linking and Advertising Policy Privacy and Cookie Policy Contact Us
Natural Cures Challenges Affiliates MP3 Downloads Articles
Please note:-Shared Care takes no responsibility for the safety, accuracy, style or otherwise of any external site to which we are linked and linking does not imply an endorsement of the linked site or its contents.
Any testimonials (in italics) are the views of the contributors as posted on the relevant website and not those of Shared Care.
Please let us know at editor(at)shared-care.com if you have any comments about our coverage of Natural Remedies for Osteoarthritis. Thanks (ed.)
Advertisement
[top of page]
Please see Community Forum Notes about comments on this page.
Powered by Plone CMS, the Open Source Content Management System
This site conforms to the following standards:
Section 508
WCAG
Valid XHTML
Valid CSS
Usable in any browser