Achilles tendon
About Us
Braces
Magnetic Therapy
Cold Hot Therapy
Far Infrared Therapy
Ion Therapy
Sport Injury Wrist Braces Elbow Braces Knee Braces Ankle Braces Back Supports
Shin Braces Shoulder Braces Thigh Braces Sport suit Material Option New Products
Achilles Tendonitis
Achilles tendinitis is an inflammation (swelling) of the tendon.The Achilles tendon attaches to the calf muscle (gastrocnemius and soleus) and to the heel bone (calcaneus). The calf muscles and the muscles along the shin are needed to protect against shock in high-impact exercises. This muscle group is very strong and is used constantly.
The Achilles tendon handles forces that range from two to three times the body weight in walking, to four to six times the body weight in running and jumping. When it is overused, or if you continue to use it when it is injured, inflammation of the Achilles tendon could lead to local degeneration and recurrent injury, which may result in a partial, or even a complete, rupture.
Cause
Basketball players are the most susceptible to Achilles tendinitis because of the frequent jumping. Beside, Soccer and football player ki ck the ball frequently are also susceptible.
Any activity requiring a constant pushing off the foot, such as running or dancing, may result in swelling of the tendon.
Syndrome
* Mild pain after exercise or running that gradually worsens
* Heat or redness over the painful area
* Episodes of diffuse or localized pain, sometimes severe, along the tendon during or a few hours after running
* Stiffness that generally diminishes as the tendon warms up with use
* Some swelling Pain along the back of the tendon, frequently closest to the heel
* Decreased R.O.M. at the ankle
* bump or build up of scar tissue that can be palpated at the tendon
* snapping noise from scar tissue when movement at the ankle occurs
Treatment & Prevation
1. Using RICE (Rest, Ice, compression, evaulation) principle.
2. Massage the knotted area several times a day
3. do warm-up exercises along with the stretching exercises.
The followings are the examples of streching exercise for achilles Tendons.
Stretch #1 -- Calf Stretch
1. Stand about a foot from a wall, then extend one leg behind you, keeping both feet flat on the floor, toes pointed straight ahead, and your rear knee straight and your front knee bent.
2. Move your hips forward, keeping your lower back flat.
3. Lean into the wall until you feel tension in the calf muscle of the extended leg.
4. Hold for 10 seconds, then stretch the other leg.
5. Repeat at least two more times.
Stretch #2 -- Calf Stretch
1. Stand arm's-length distance from a wall (or tree, or lamppost -- whatever is handy and gives you support).
2. Put your hands on the wall, keep your back and your legs straight, and make sure your heels are flat on the floor.
3. Bend your arms and lean forward, trying to touch your chest to the wall.
4. Feel the stretch in your calf muscles.
5. Hold it for a few seconds.
6. Relax and repeat at least two more times.
Stretch #3 -- Achilles Tendon stretch
1. Stand with one leg in front of you, slightly bent, and the other leg extended back.
2. Lower your hips downward as you slightly bend the knee of the extended leg.
3. Keep both heels flat on the floor and toes straight ahead.
4. Hold the stretch for 10 seconds, and then stretch the other leg.
5. Repeat at least two more times.
Sugested Ankle Braces
AN-SF-11
AN-SF-12
AN-SF-13
AN-SF-15
AN-B-12
AN-N-11
AN-N-12
AN-N-13
AN-N-14
AN-S-14
AN-B-11
AN-N-13-3
AN-N-16