Knee injections for osteoarthritis: Options, procedure, and side effects
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
A guide to knee injections for osteoarthritis
Last updated	 Thu 24 May 2018	 Last updated	Thu 24 May 2018
By Stephanie Watson
Reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Table of contents
Hyaluronic acid injections
Corticosteroid injections
Talking to a doctor about injections
A doctor may suggest injections as a treatment for osteoarthritis, an inflammatory condition of joint cartilage and bone.
When knees are sore, stiff, and swollen from osteoarthritis, several treatment options are available.
Treatment for osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee may start with non-medicinal interventions, such as exercise or weight loss. Another option is over-the-counter (OTC) pain relief medication. Options include acetaminophen (Tylenol), aspirin, or ibuprofen (Motrin, Aleve).
If these treatments do not resolve symptoms, injections are available to help achieve the desired effects. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved two injections to treat OA of the knee: Hyaluronic acid and corticosteroids.
In this article, we provide an in-depth examination of both types of injection, their uses, and their possible side effects.
Hyaluronic acid injections
Hyaluronic acid injections can help to lubricate the joint and protect the knee against wear and tear.
Hyaluronic acid is a gel-like substance that is naturally present in the synovial fluid surrounding the joints.
This substance provides lubrication and cushioning. It acts as a shock absorber and helps the bones move smoothly instead of grinding against one another.
People with OA have reduced amounts of hyaluronic acid in their joint fluid. Hyaluronic acid injections can help restore normal levels. These injections not only lubricate the joint, but they may also reduce inflammation and protect the cartilage from further wear and tear.
A doctor or another healthcare provider will inject between one and five shots into the knee. The number of shots depends on the brand of hyaluronic acid. Injections occur at weekly intervals.
Before giving an injection, the doctor may perform an aspiration, removing some of the fluid from the knee joint with a needle to reduce swelling.
After injections, avoid putting too much weight on the knee. Do not jog or run, stand for long periods of time, or lift heavy objects.
Side effects
Typical side effects from hyaluronic acid injections include:
pain in the knee
bruising
warmth
slight swelling
These side effects should resolve after a few days. Applying a bag of ice to the knee can help relieve discomfort and prevent swelling after the shots.
In rare cases, people might experience more serious side effects, such as bleeding, infection, or allergic reaction.
The 10 best blogs for osteoarthritis
Are you living with osteoarthritis? These blogs may help.
Read now
Call a doctor right away if any of these symptoms occur:
severe swelling in the knee
rash
redness or warmth in the knee
severe pain
The pain of OA may not start to ease up until several weeks after the injections.
The pain relief effects of the injection typically last for about 6 months. Once this wears off, a person will require another round of shots or different treatment.
Most insurers will cover the second round of injections if they also covered the initial treatment, and it helped relieve the pain.
Hyaluronic acid injections do not stop or reverse arthritis. However, they may temporarily ease pain and improve mobility in some people. Those with mild OA are likely to see the greatest benefit from hyaluronic acid injections.
Corticosteroid injections
Steroid medicines act in a similar way to the hormone cortisol. Cortisol works on the immune system to reduce inflammation throughout the body, also serving to relieve pain.
The FDA has approved five different steroid medicines to treat OA. All of them are about equally effective.
People will need to visit a doctor for the injection. Doctors sometimes use ultrasound to guide the placement of the needle into the space around the joint. Ultrasound is a scan that uses sound waves to create images of the inside of the body.
The doctor may also give an injection of anesthetic pain relief alongside the injection, which will provide immediate relief. The steroid should start taking effect within a few days.
Corticosteroids work faster than hyaluronic acid injections, but their effects do not last as long. In some people, corticosteroid injections can help relieve pain and improve movement in the joint. Others do not find any pain relief from these shots.
People with a extensive damage in the knee are less likely to see results. Even if the pain does improve, it may start to return from a few weeks to a few months after the shot.
Side effects
Although the FDA considers corticosteroid shots to be safe, people might experience side effects, such as:
crystal flares, or irritation in the joint similar to gout
nerve damage
in rare cases, infection
an increase in blood sugar levels, a side effect particularly common in people with diabetes
thinning of the bones near the knee
If the effects wear off, people receiving the injection may not be able to have another shot right away. Doctors only recommend receiving corticosteroid injections once every 3–4 months.
Receiving shots too frequently can increase the risk of adverse effects, such as damage to soft tissues in the knee. The pain relief from the injection will also not be as effective and wear off more quickly.
If injections every few months are not frequent enough to relieve the pain, another type of treatment may be necessary.
Talking to a doctor about injections
Speak to a doctor about whether knee injections will help your presentation of OA.
People who think they might have OA of the knee should ask a doctor if knee injections are an effective next step.
Two other types of injections are available. Although these treatments are still experimental and not yet FDA-approved for arthritis of the knee, some doctors may be able to use them.
Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections
These injections use cells called platelets. These help wounds heal and blood clot. The doctor takes the platelets from the individual's own blood. Once inside the knee joint, platelets release growth factors, which are substances that help fix damaged tissues.
PRP injections may relieve OA pain and improve function, although researchers must provide further evidence before this treatment enters the mainstream.
Stem cell injections
These injections repair damaged cartilage using cells that can develop into any type of tissue. Stem cell injections can help reduce swelling and relieve pain.
Before turning to injections, more conservative treatments are available, like physical therapy, heat, ice, and weight loss. Insurers will often not cover injections for osteoarthritis until they receive evidence confirming that a person has attempted conservative treatment without success.
Takeaway
Two main injections are available to treat OA in the knee.
Hyaluronic acid injections replace a naturally-occurring lubricant in the fluids around the knee joint. Corticosteroid injections provide an anti-inflammatory medication directly to the knee joint.
In either case, the effects wear off and a top-up will likely be necessary. However, a person should not receive steroid injections more than once in a 3–4 month period as this increases the risk of side effects.
Other experimental injections are under examination, such as PRP and stem cell injections. However, these are not yet mainstream treatments.
Speak to a doctor to assess whether knee injections are right for you.
Related coverage
What are stem cells and why are they important? Stem cells are a type of cell that we all produce. They are nonspecific cells that could become any kind of cell in the body. There is hope that they may be used in regenerative medicine, for example, to enable a damaged organ to grow back. However, there is controversy about some uses of stem cells. Find out more. Read now
What are the causes and types of arthritis? Arthritis is a term that describes around 200 conditions that cause pain in the joints and the tissues surrounding the joints. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis. Other related conditions include gout and fibromyalgia. The article looks at the types, causes, and treatments, including natural remedies. Read now
Everything you need to know about osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis is a potentially painful condition that leads to inflammation, loss of cartilage, and bone damage. Read our article to find out how it happens and what treatments can help. Also, see a fully interactive 3-D model that you can explore to look inside a joint when signs of osteoarthritis begin to appear. Read now
Knee osteoarthritis: Steroid injections offer no benefit, study suggests Corticosteroid injections do not ease pain for patients with knee osteoarthritis and may even lead to greater loss of cartilage, new research suggests. Read now
Knee osteoarthritis: What's the best weight loss plan? Weight loss is known to reduce osteoarthritis symptoms and signs. But which weight loss regimen is best? New research investigates. Read now
email email
print
share share
Osteoarthritis
Primary Care / General Practice Rheumatology
Additional information
Article last updated by Adam Felman on Thu 24 May 2018.
Visit our Osteoarthritis category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Osteoarthritis.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
25 treatments for hip and knee arthritis pain. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.arthritis.org/living-with-arthritis/pain-management/tips/25-treatments-for-hip-knee-oa.php.
Ayhan, E., Kesmezacar, H., & Akgun, I. (2014, July 18). Intraarticular injections (corticosteroid, hyaluronic acid, platelet rich plasma) for the knee osteoarthritis. World Journal of Orthopedics, 5(3), 351-361. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4095029/.
Morelli, J. (n.d.). Use of corticosteroids in osteoarthritis. Retrieved from http://www.arthritis.org/living-with-arthritis/treatments/medication/drug-types/corticosteroids/corticosteroid-injections.php.
Rutjes, A.W., Juni, P., da Costa, B.R., Trelle, S., Nuesch, E., & Reichenbach, S. (2012, August 7). Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee: a systematic review and meta-analysis [Abstract]. Annals of Internal Medicine, 157(3), 180-191. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22868835.
Therapeutic injections for osteoarthritis of the knee. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://nyulangone.org/conditions/osteoarthritis-of-the-knee/treatments/therapeutic-injections-for-osteoarthritis-of-the-knee.
Viscosupplementation treatment for knee arthritis. (2015, June). Retrieved from http://orthoinfo.aaos.org/topic.cfm?topic=a00217.
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Watson, Stephanie. "A guide to knee injections for osteoarthritis." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 24 May. 2018. Web.
24 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/310557.php>
APA
Watson, S. (2018, May 24). "A guide to knee injections for osteoarthritis." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/310557.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
For the first time, scientists have shown that general anesthetics activate the same small group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Using small molecules to regenerate heart tissue
New research in mice uses gene-regulating molecules called microRNAs to repair heart tissue after an adverse cardiovascular event such as a heart attack.
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Popular in: Osteoarthritis
What is the best diet for osteoarthritis?
What are Heberden's nodes?
Thumb arthritis: What to know
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
What to know about tricompartmental osteoarthritis
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/310557.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);