Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor Articles - Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor / Counselling Psychology Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor / Counselling psychology Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor Blog
Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor / Counselling Psychology
drwaynecoghlan.com
Home
Chiropractor
Index to chiropractic articles
Chiropractic articles
Locum tenens
Resume
References
Counselling
Counselling Articles
Personal Reflections
Personal Blog
Dr. Wayne Coghlan
Chiropractic Topics
Information on topics relating to chiropractic and my approach to health care.
Back to the INDEX TO ARTICLES PAGE
When To Use Heat Or Ice To Treat An Injury
27/6/2016
Comments
Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor
When To Use Heat Or Ice To Treat An Injury
Heat or Ice?
When to use heat or ice to treat an injury
Chill out?
Do I use heat to treat?
Applications of hot and cold have been used since antiquity for the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries. The research based evidence and understanding of the complex physiological actions is highly variable *3 as studies will often focus on one aspect of cryo/thermotherapy which may not be applicable to the generalities of the application.. and there is not a lot of money/reward$ in investigating something you can get out of the freezer or the tap.
Clinical wisdom is thus a matter of research as available, intuition, experience, and consensus.
Cryotherapy = the application of cold for the treatment of injury or disease.
Thermotherapy = the application of heat for the treatment of injury or disease.
The benefits of cryotherapy includes:
reduction of pain due to numbing affects on local nerves.
reduction of spasm due to reduction of local blood flow and nerve sensitivity.
metabolic stabilization of acute injuries reducing the recovery time.
decrease the inflammatory - pain/redness/swelling/heat - response to injury.
rehabilitative treatment of chronic injuries.
reduce pain effectively in the post-operative period after reconstructive surgery of the joints.
**** Using a cold compress can also reduce the pain, swelling, and inflammation associated with gout and rheumatoid arthritis. A gentle approach is recommended. *****
Generally speaking, the newer and more severe the injury, and the more pain and swelling associated with the injury, the more you would use ice. The sooner ice can be applied, the better the overall results in terms of stabilizing the injury and promoting recovery.
For a new injury remember RICE: Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation *1
The importance of rest and accompanying elevation of the limb cannot be ignored *1. Elevation serves to rest the injured area, and utilizes gravity to drain excessive blood from the swollen area.
Various methods such as ice packs, ice towels, ice massage, gel packs, refrigerant sprays and inflatable splints can be used each with their own pros/cons.
For home use an ice pack, frozen wet towel, or bag of frozen peas is inexpensive and convenient.
Crushed ice, or ice cubes with a small quantity of water, contained in a plastic bag is often most handy and is less likely to cause frostbite in healthy adults.
Ice massage cools the muscle faster than an ice pack. Try freezing water in a paper cup, peel away the top layer of paper and massage/rub the ice directly onto the skin over the injury. Use a towel to catch the drips.
The most effective cooling method is bathing the affected area in a whirlpool ice bath. Elite/pro athletes often have to endure this treatment... imagine if it is a groin injury.
In winter climates.... a bag of snow is convenient, cheap, and works well.
Heat or Ice to treat an injury?
Ice bath to treat a groin injury
Freeze water in paper cup - peel away paper - rub ice on boo-boo.
Topical cold treatment decreases the temperature of the skin and underlying tissues to a depth of 2
to 4 cm. I recommend applying the ice on/off for 10-20 minute intervals. Use shorter intervals for smaller joints and injuries with less insulation of skin fat. For larger and deeper areas use the ice longer. If the skin becomes firm or pressing your finger into the skin leaves a lingering pale spot, give the area a rest or warm with your hand for a few minutes to avoid frost-bite. The tissue below the skin will remain effectively chilled for up to 20 minutes.
To my understanding, the use of "ice gels" such as Deep Ice and Deep Cold may be cooling to the skin and soothe the pain of an acute injury, but I have not seen any evidence that they effectively cool an injury below the skin level. At best they are a comfort due to the counter irritation of the skin , but not an effective treatment.
For new injuries continue applying ice for the first two to three days. Traditional wisdom recommends that beginning about two days after the injury, one would begin alternating applications of heat then ice... always finishing with ice.
Nadler reports that contrast therapy (alternating between hot and cold treatment) provides no additional therapeutic benefits compared with cryotherapy or thermotherapy alone *2. It seems that alternating from heat to ice for short periods just keeps the internal tissue temperature near normal. Perhaps applying heat for 20 minutes, rest 20 minutes, ice 20 minutes, rest 20 minutes ...repeat... may have a net therapeutic effect of drawing fresh blood into the injury and promoting increase metabolism to stimulate healing, then using ice to prevent excessive swelling and inflammation. Opportunity for some research! Nonetheless.... As you continue into the rehabilitation stage of the injury, use elevation and ice after exercise for as long as pain and swelling persist.
Cold appears to be effective and harmless and few complications or side-effects after the use of cold therapy are reported. However, prolonged application at very low temperatures should, however, be avoided as this may cause serious side-effects, such as frost-bite and nerve injuries.
*2 - Now you know.
Use heat to soothe older injuries.
Although cold and hot treatment applications both decrease pain and muscle spasm, they have opposite effects on tissue metabolism, blood flow, inflammation, edema, and connective tissue extensibility. Cryotherapy decreases these effects while thermotherapy increases them.
The conventional wisdom is to use heat to soothe an older injury. This largely due to the reduction in muscle spasm due to increased blood flow, and reduced pain sensation largely due to the stimulation of superficial nerves rather than physiologic effects in the deeper tissue. Using heat may stimulate healing and repair of new and old injuries in combination with active exercise and tools such as ultrasound and shock-wave therapy.
Heat can be applied in numerous ways from convenient gel packs to hot water bottles to heat baths to electrically insulated heating pads. Using a moist towel between the heat source and your skin can help the heat penetrate the tissue.
A bucket of water heated to tolerance can be used to treat an ankle or elbow....but do be careful not to scald yourself!!! Immersing the entire body in a hot bath or shower can be soothing yet is unlikely to have much therapeutic effect on tissues below the skin level without dangerously raising the core body temperature. Use a moist heat compress instead.
A heating lineament may be soothing and if it brings you comfort... why not? But what heat they do provide is due to increase blood flow to the skin (hyperemia) and they do not heat below the skin level. Do not use a heating lineament and then a heating pad as the combination can cause chemical/toxic burns to the skin.
Do not use an electric heating pad If you are prone to falling asleep. Electric heating pads can stay warm and literally cook the skin, perhaps to a centimeter or so depth.
With thermotherapy, skin burns may occur, especially in patients with diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis, poor circulation, and spinal cord injuries due to reduced pain sensitivity. In individuals with rheumatoid arthritis, deep-heating modalities should be used with caution because increased inflammation may occur. Whirlpool and other types of hydrotherapy have caused infections of the skin, urogenital, and pulmonary systems. Additionally, ultrasound should not be used in patients with joint prostheses.
*3 Upon reviewing the literature much of the confusion arises from the limiting nature of studying heat and ice on injuries... how does one ethically and practically use sham heat or ice? Another limit is that many studies have very specific research parameters that do not necessarily translate to clinical use.
Nevertheless.... apply heat or ice with caution and some good sense. If you are unsure consult with your health professional.
Dr. Wayne Coghlan: ﻿Chiropractor.
drwaynecoghlan.com﻿.
Email: drwaynecoghlan@gmail.com
REFERENCES:
Scott F. Nadler, DO, FACSM, Kurt Weingand, PhD, DVM, and Roger J. Kruse, MD, Cryotherapy and Thermotherapy for the Pain Practitioner. Pain Physician Vol. 7, No. 3, 2004. 395-399.
Swenson, C., Swärd, L. and Karlsson, J. (1996), Cryotherapy in sports medicine. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports, 6: 193–200. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0838.1996.tb00090.x
Click here to get back to the list of articles.
Comments
CHIROPRACTOR: Frequently Asked Questions
10/6/2016
Comments
FAQs: Frequently asked questions
WHERE IS MY PRACTICE? ​
I am currently not in practice at any particular location. Please contact me if I may be of service.
DO YOU NEED A MEDICAL REFERRAL?
You DO NOT need a medical referral to consult/visit a chiropractor in Ontario. A benefit of this is that chiropractors are free to work outside of the "medical umbrella" and are able to offer independent insight.
We do, however, work in cooperation with your medical and other health professionals. Where it is to your advantage and with your permission, a clinical report can be sent to your physician.
WHAT ARE MY FEES?
An initial chiropractic ranges between $80 - $100.
Each additional treatment visit is $40 - $50.
Please call to discuss. 905-636-6886
WHAT HAPPENS AT YOUR FIRST VISIT?
Your initial appointment includes intake, consultation, examination, referral for x-rays and further tests as necessary, diagnostic impression, and depending on your situation a treatment to help you start feeling better.
DO WE TAKE X-RAYS?
X-rays are taken only as necessary, that is, to qualify a diagnosis or to rule out other complications.
I typically refer you to a local medical facility that will take your X-rays. The taking of the X-rays is covered by OHIP (take your card with you), however, you may have to pay a modest out-of-pocket fee for their radiologist to read and provide a report*. A report may be sent to your physician. Depending on the x-ray facility you may need to visit the lab in the next few days and they will turn the films/CD/images over to you to bring back to the clinic where we can look at them together. Some x-rays labs now e-transfer your images to us directly.
*If you wish to avoid the cost of the radiologist report, you can discus having your physician order the
study. Dr. Kassis is usually amenable to ordering x-rays of her current patients.
If you need advanced imaging we refer you to your physician. If necessary I can provide you a report explaining the reason for a CT or MRI scan.
I can also refer you to a private facility that can perform advanced (MRI/CT) imaging. The cost is currently about $800 and not covered by insurance, although it may be tax deductible (contact your accountant). The advantages of this opportunity and whether it is a prudent expense can be discussed with you.
WHAT’S HAPPENS NEXT?
On your second visit we will discuss our findings and your diagnosis - that is - identify what is troubling you, how it came to be, and what we need to do about it. This usually involves laying out a treatment plan to get you the best results as quickly as we can. I usually do a treatment as well.
HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE UNTIL YOU ARE BETTER?
That, of course, depends on your own particular problem. A new injury on a relatively fit individual will respond faster than an elderly person with long term issues. Many patients enjoy substantial relief on their first visit. However, in most cases, the acute/relief phase may require frequent visits over the course of several weeks to get through. It is to your advantage to consider your long term function and health rather than just pain relief. Longer term corrective care typically requires one or two visits per week over several months to a year. Please see "Do I need to keep coming back?" down below.
DO CHIROPRACTORS ONLY TREAT INJURIES?
Most people will start seeing a chiropractor due to some form of injury. While chiropractors are specialists in treating Musculo-Skeletal Injuries, particularly those involving the spine, more people are seeing chiropractors to invest in their health and long-term wellness.
Do note that few health conditions just happen. Please see the section "HONEST, DOC! I WASN'T DOING ANYTHING!".
.
WHAT TYPE OF TREATMENT DO I USE?
I use several modalities such as ultrasound, laser, and electro-stimulation. However, the mainstay of chiropractic is manipulation of the joints and tissues. Some chiropractors use a device called an "Activator" depending on what is appropriate for your ne﻿e﻿ds.... I prefer a hands on approach as I believe it gives more effective results
For more information on what others have to say about manipulation.... National Institutes of Health: Chiropractic: An Introduction, and Spinal Manipulation for Low-Back Pain
HOW DOES MANIPULATION WORK?
Essentially, is stretches the tissues around the joint to make it more flexible and helps re-position and normalize the motion of the joint (corrects spinal misalignment). The immediate effect is better mobility and less pain.
Normalizing the joint will also relieve pressure and irritation of nerves which itself is a major source of pain and impairs health. See the page "HONEST, DOC! I WASN'T DOING ANYTHING!"
IS MANIPULATION SAFE?
About as safe as golfing and bowling... probably safer. The most dangerous part of a chiropractic adjustment (treatment) is getting to the office. If you have more specific questions or concerns than I can answer here, you are welcome to email me your question or schedule a consultation.
I also suggest that you review this statement from the Canadian Chiropractic Protective Association: ﻿Informed Consent To Chiropractic Treatment. which outlines the potential benefits, risks, and alternatives to chiropractic treatment. ﻿
DOES IT HURT?
Generally no. Treatments such as Ultrasound produce a pleasant warmth. Most people describe the feeling from electrotherapy as soothing. With manipulation therapy most people experience a tolerable, some even say pleasing degree of pressure and stretching. It is much like cracking a knuckle. I liken a treatment to jumping into cool water. It is annoying to think about, but once done, it wasn’t so bad and well worth the effort.
DO YOU NEED TO KEEP COMING BACK?
That is up to you... please read on.
For typical Musculo-Skeletal and Spinal Injuries there are typically three stages of care.
In the initial relief stage, the goal is to get you free of pain and functional as soon as we can. Treatments during the acute phase are often daily for the first week or two. As you recover, you can expect treatments to spread to every other day to twice per week over the course of several more weeks.
By this time, you have entered the sub-acute phase. Treatment at this time are directed to repair damaged tissues and restore normalized function. Please note that being out of pain does not necessarily mean the injury has resolved. Healing takes time and we must allow the living tissue to adapt to the corrections being made. Through this phase treatments may begin at three per week and gradually taper to weekly or every two weeks.
Your need for ongoing care depends upon your condition. Some injuries are permanent. This does not mean that you are constantly suffering. In fact, many permanent injuries stabilize and can be managed quite well. However, it is to your advantage to consider your health a long term investment.
Many patients appreciate the benefits of regular “maintenance” visits every two to four to six weeks. It feels good to feel good and it (YOU) are a worth the investment.
Nonetheless, I will offer you my recommendations and why, so that you may make informed decisions. How long you chose to continue chiropractic therapy for any particular condition is always YOUR choice.
For patients seeking Spinal Correction Care and Wellness Care the course of therapy may vary from Injury Care.
DOES OHIP COVER ANY OF THE COST?
No part of chiropractic services are covered by OHIP.
DO WE ACCEPT PRIVATE INSURANCE?
Each extended benefits policy has its own conditions. Our contract is with you and not your insurer. In most cases, you pay us, we will assist with what ever paper work is necessary, and you then submit to your insurer for re-reimbursement. If your insurer agrees, we will take payment directly.
Back to the List of Articles Page
Comments
INFORMED CONSENT TO CHIROPRACTIC CARE
6/6/2016
Comments
INFORMED CONSENT TO CHIROPRACTIC TREATMENT
It is important for you to consider the benefits, risks and alternatives to the treatment options offered by your chiropractor and to make an informed decision about proceeding with treatment.
Chiropractic treatment includes adjustment, manipulation and mobilization of the spine and other joints of the body, soft-tissue techniques such as massage, and other forms of therapy including, but not limited to, electrical or light therapy and exercise.
Benefits: Chiropractic treatment has been demonstrated to be effective for complaints of the neck, back and other areas of the body caused by nerves, muscles, joints and related tissues. Treatment by your chiropractor can relieve pain, including headache, altered sensation, muscle stiffness and spasm. It can also increase mobility, improve function, and reduce or eliminate the need for drugs or surgery.
Risks: The risks associated with chiropractic treatment vary according to each patient’s condition as well as the location and type of treatment.
The risks include:Temporary worsening of symptoms – Usually, any increase in pre-existing symptoms of pain or stiffness will last only a few hours to a few days.
Skin irritation or burn – Skin irritation or a burn may occur in association with the use of some types of electrical or light therapy. Skin irritation should resolve quickly. A burn may leave a permanent scar.
Sprain or strain – Typically, a muscle or ligament sprain or strain will resolve itself within a few days or weeks with some rest, protection of the area affected and other minor care.
Rib fracture – While a rib fracture is painful and can limit your activity for a period of time, it will generallyheal on its own over a period of several weeks without further treatment or surgical intervention.
Injury or aggravation of a disc – Over the course of a lifetime, spinal discs may degenerate or become damaged. A disc can degenerate with aging, while disc damage can occur with common daily activities such as bending or lifting. Patients who already have a degenerated or damaged disc may or may not have symptoms. They may not know they have a problem with a disc. They also may not know their disc condition is worsening because they only experience back or neck problems once in a while.﻿- Chiropractic treatment should not damage a disc that is not already degenerated or damaged, but if there is a pre-existing disc condition, chiropractic treatment, like many common daily activities,may aggravate the disc condition.
- The consequences of disc injury or aggravating a pre-existing disc condition will vary with each patient. In the most severe cases, patient symptoms may include impaired back or neck mobility, radiating pain and numbness into the legs or arms, impaired bowel or bladder function, or impaired leg or arm function.
- In rare cases, surgery may be needed.
Stroke – Blood flows to the brain through two sets of arteries passing through the neck. These arteries may become weakened and damaged, either over time through aging or disease, or as a result of injury. A bloodclot may form in a damaged artery. All or part of the clot may break off and travel up the artery to the brain where it can interrupt blood flow and cause a stroke.- Many common activities of daily living involving ordinary neck movements have been associated with stroke resulting from damage to an apparently health artery in the neck, or a clot that already existed in the artery breaking off and travelling up to the brain.
- Chiropractic treatment has also been associated with stroke. However, that association occurs very infrequently, and may be explained because an artery was already damaged and the patient was progressing toward a stroke when the patient consulted the chiropractor. Present medical and
scientific evidence does not establish that chiropractic treatment causes either damage to an artery
or stroke.
- The consequences of a stroke can be very serious, including significant impairment of vision, speech, balance and brain function, as well as paralysis or death.
Alternatives: Alternatives to chiropractic treatment may include consulting other health professionals. Your chiropractor may also prescribe rest without treatment, or exercise with or without treatment.
Questions or Concerns: You are encouraged to ask questions at any time regarding your assessment and
treatment. Bring any concerns you have to the chiropractor’s attention. If you are not comfortable, you may stop treatment at any time.
Please be involved in and responsible for your care.
Take me back to the list of articles page.
Comments
List of Articles
Dr. Wayne Coghlan
I am a graduate of the University of Guelph School of Human Kinetics, and then the Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College, with further education in Sports Sciences, and have completed a Master's degree in Counselling Psychology.
My athletic experience includes playing varsity football and rugby. I've worked my way through college doing jobs requiring much physical labour ... I know the realities of the workplace. In addition to my professional interests I enjoy gardening, gourmet canoe trips, and being a good parent.
Now serving the profession as chiropractor locum tenens (supply chiropractor) for professionals requiring a stand in while they are taking a vacation, medical leave, or otherwise indisposed.
Archives
February 2019
August 2017
November 2016
July 2016
June 2016
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
December 2014
November 2014
Categories
All
Chiropractic
Diet
Free Consultation
Mediterranean Diet
Notalgia Paresthetica
Nutrition
Nutrition And The Elderly
Tech Neck
Text Neck
Vitamins And Senior Years
RSS Feed
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started
Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor / Counselling Psychology. My title
page contents
Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor / Counselling Psychology.
Dr. Wayne Coghlan: Chiropractor - chiropractor blog articles
**year**