Imitrex vs Maxalt, Differences & Reviews - PillComparer
pillcomparer
Imitrex vs Maxalt
﻿
Imitrex
What is Imitrex
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is a prescription medication used to treat migraine headaches once they have started. Sumatriptan belongs to a group of drugs called serotonin receptor agonists or "triptans", which relieve pain by narrowing blood vessels around the brain.
Imitrex price
$ 24.95 (Package 25mg x 5 pills)
prices from H&B Pharmacy
How does imitrex work
Imitrex acts on serotonin (or 5HT) receptors that are found on blood vessels in the brain, causing them to narrow. It's also thought to inhibit the action of the trigeminal nerve. These actions relieve the headache and other symptoms that you may get with your migraine, such as feeling sick or sensitivity to light or sound.
How long does imitrex stay in your system
The half life is 1,5-2,6 hours. It takes about 7,5-15,6 hours for Imitrex to clear out of the system.
Imitrex dosage
The recommended dose of Imitrex in tablet form is: 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg.
Your doctor will prescribe the right dose for you.
After the first recommended dose, you may be advised to take a second dose two hours or more later, if your migraine has not resolved. The maximum daily dose of Imitrex tablets is 200 mg in a 24-hour time period.
An additional dose of the injection can also be given if the first dose does not work and 2 hours or more have passed.
Side effects
tiredness, weakness, drowsiness, dizziness;
changes in the sensation or color of fingers or toes;
bloody diarrhea, nausea, constipation, vomiting, severe stomach pain;
cramping, pain, tingling in legs, hips, leg muscles, feet, toes;
hives, swelling of tongue, throat, oral area;
mental changes, hallucinations, high temperature;
balance problems;
chest pain;
stiffness in neck, jaw.
Maxalt
What is Maxalt
Maxalt (Rizatriptan) is a prescription medication used to treat migraine headaches once they have started. Rizatriptan belongs to a group of drugs called serotonin receptor agonists or "triptans", which relieve pain by narrowing blood vessels around the brain.
Maxalt price
$ 69.99 (Package 5mg x 12 pills)
prices from H&B Pharmacy
How does maxalt work
Maxalt works by stimulating receptors called serotonin (or 5HT) receptors that are found in the brain. A natural substance called serotonin normally acts on these receptors, causing blood vessels in the brain to narrow. Maxalt mimics this action of serotonin by directly stimulating the serotonin receptors in the brain. This narrows the blood vessels and so relieves the pain of migraine headaches.
How long does maxalt stay in your system
The half-life of maxalt is 2 to 3 hours, so after 8, at least 80% of it would be out of your system.
Maxalt dosage
The recommended adult starting dose of maxalt is 5 mg. In some cases, a starting dose of 10 mg may be used. The dose should be taken at the first sign of migraine headache pain. If the migraine headache comes back after being relieved, another dose (5 mg to 10 mg) may be taken no sooner than 2 hours after the first dose was taken.
The maximum recommended single dose is 10 mg. No more than 20 mg of maxalt should be taken in any 24-hour period. If your headache pain is different from your usual migraines, do not take maxalt and call your doctor. Maxalt is not to be used for headache prevention.
Side effects
atypical (unusual) sensations;
skin tingling or numbness;
chest pain: tightness/pressure and/or heaviness;
neck/throat/jaw: pain/tightness/pressure;
regional pain: tightness/pressure/heaviness;
digestive issues, nausea;
dry mouth;
neurological issues;
dizziness, headache;
sleepiness, weakness/fatigue.
Questions & Answers
Where to buy imitrex or maxalt over the counter in the U.S.?
You can not buy imitrex and maxalt without prescription in the US, Canada, UK and most other countries in the world. You need to get a prescription for migraine medications from your doctor before being able to access the meds. If you have a prescription, Walgreens, CVS, Walmart or any other online pharmacy will sell drugs for you.
Reviews
lisahauer98
Imitrex changed my life. I only take 50 mg the best part about is that after the migraine wears off the medication give me a lift of energy. Wish I had this sooner I suffered for year.
TJAlex
I have been on Imitrix and Maxalt, but have actually found that taking a combo of 6 mg ibuprofin and 3 mg Excedrin work better than either and it is safe to take that 3 times a week. I think that a preventative is also important.
Jules17
Maxalt is a very good migraine medicine for me. No side effects but only a little tired but that's good.
rockygirl
I suffered from frequent migraines, complete with nausea, for nearly 15 years. Around 2-4 times a month. Tried everything, thought nothing would help. Then tried Maxalt (Rizatriptan)! (Similar to Imitrex). It really works - for me at least. If you haven't tried Imitrex or Maxalt, you really should. Only side effect is being slightly tired.
Add review
Send
Other comparisons
Imitrex vs Relpax
Imitrex vs Topamax
Maxalt vs Topamax
Maxalt vs Relpax
Topamax vs Relpax
Sitemap
Copyright © 2019 by PillComparer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.