10 Most Popular Health Myths Debunked '); setTimeout(function(){ ap_onCTServiceResponse({ "keywords":[], "urlwords": [] }); },100);
Health A-Z
Living Well
Food
Fitness
Family
Video
Health Centers
Women’s Health
Breast Cancer
Menopause
Overactive Bladder (OAB) + Incontinence
Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS)
Vaginal Infections
Heart Health
Congestive Heart Failure
Atrial Fibrillation
Coronary Artery Disease
High Blood Pressure / Hypertension
High Cholesterol
Mental + Emotional Health
ADHD
Anxiety (Panic Disorders, Phobias)
Bipolar Disorder
Eating Disorders (Anorexia, Bulimia, Hypergymnasia, etc.)
Stress Management
Skin Health
Toe Nail Fungus (Onychomycosis)
Psoriasis
Rashes + Skin Problems (Dermatitis, Eczema, Rashes)
Malignant Melanoma
Skin Cancer
Sexual Health
Bone + Joint Health
Back Pain
Hip Health
Hip Replacement
Knee Pain
Osteoarthritis
Osteoporosis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Spinal Fracture
Cancer Center
Colon + Rectal Cancer
Lung Cancer
Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
Ovarian Cancer
Skin Cancer
See All >
Men’s Health
Senior Health
Alzheimer’s Disease + Dementias
Hearing Loss
Osteoporosis
Parkinson’s Disease
Memory Loss
Kid’s & Teen Health
Brain Health
Concussions + Common Head Injuries
Alzheimer’s Disease + Dementias
Migraine
Parkinson’s Disease
Stroke
Pain Management Center
Digestive Health
Constipation
Crohn’s Disease
IBS
Ulcerative Colitis
Ulcers
Eye Health
Top Conditions
Diabetes
Diabetic Retinopathy
Diabetes Overview
Type 1 Diabetes
Type 2 Diabetes
Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Multiple Sclerosis
Multiple Sclerosis Overview
RRMS
Insomnia
Alzheimer’s Disease
Depression
AIDS/HIV
Hepatitis
Hepatitis B
Hepatitis-C
Breast Cancer
Breast Cancer
Metastatic Breast Cancer
Heart Attack
Menopause
Perimenopause
Menopause
Postmenopause
Heartburn/GERD
VIEW ALL >
Health HeadlinesSee all
Lyme disease
5 Common Lyme Disease Myths
April 22, 2019 by Sondra Forsyth
Debunking common myths about Lyme disease: MYTH: I only need to worry about tick season during the summer FACT: Tick … Read More→
VideosSee all
Mental Health
What Is Depression?
Depression is a common and serious mental health condition, which can negatively affect how you feel, how you think, and … Watch Video→
What's Popular
Aging Well
Sex
Beauty + Style
Skin
Hair
Style
Travel
Well-Being
Spiritual Health
Money Matters
Wills + Estates
Retirement
Work
Stress-Free Living
Find Your Calling – and Carve Your Own Path
April 4, 2019 by Jane Farrell
Many of us spend our lives pursuing a singular idea of success, one that was created for us by someone … Read More→
Nails
What You Need to Know About Nail Trimming
March 29, 2019 by Jane Farrell
Keeping fingernails and toenails in good shape does more than enhance your appearance: this simple yet important self-care routine eliminates … Read More→
What's Popular
Healthy Recipes
Diet + Nutrition
Weight Loss
Vitamins + Supplements
Food Allergies + Intolerance
Healthy Diet & Nutrition
Instagram “Health Foods” That Are Surprisingly Unhealthy or Caloric
April 23, 2019 by Sondra Forsyth
From Whole Foods to pricey health food stores, cafes, and coffee shops, certain foods and ingredients have become trendy among … Read More→
Healthy Diet & Nutrition
Unintended Arithmetic of Dieting
February 27, 2019 by Sondra Forsyth
What many people don’t realize is that they employ the eating strategies of Sumo Wrestlers and expect to lose weight. … Read More→
What's Popular
Exercise
Mind & Body Wellness
Injury Prevention + Treatment
Health + Fitness
Exercise
Your Most Embarrassing Fitness Questions Answered
March 20, 2019 by Sondra Forsyth
If you follow fitness trainers or enthusiasts on Instagram, we are besieged by women at the gym who look supremely … Read More→
Health & Fitness
How to Make a Good Exercise Plan
February 22, 2019 by Jane Farrell
If you’ve been wanting to exercise, but somehow never finding the time, maybe you should make an exercise plan to … Read More→
What's Popular
Relationships + Love
Dating
Marriage
Divorce
Widowhood
Loneliness
Living Single
Friendship
Parenting
Grandparenting
Caregiving
Pets
Parenting
It Takes a Sensitive Village to Raise a Child with Special Needs
April 5, 2019 by Sondra Forsyth
Raising a child with a disability is a journey that is never easy. In addition to the emotional challenges, it … Read More→
Relationships & Love
6 Ways to Celebrate Singlehood This Valentine’s Day
February 14, 2019 by Sondra Forsyth
These days, more and more women are referring to Valentine’s Day as “Single Awareness Day”. Gone are the days of … Read More→
What's Popular
Anxiety + Stress Management
Mental Health
Diabetes Information
Pain Management
Fitness + Nutrition
Women’s Health
Multiple Sclerosis Information
Pregnancy
Bone + Joint Health
Sexual Health
Extreme Exercise and Heart Health
February 3, 2019 by thirdAGE
Extreme athletes are not at increased risk of heart disease or death.
Air Pollution and Autism Risk
November 21, 2018 by thirdAGE
Prenatal exposure to a certain air pollutant may increase autism risk in children.
10 Most Popular Health Myths Debunked
By Dr. Christopher Calapai, D.O.
We all have heard myths about certain habits, foods or behaviors that can help or hurt our health. When myths are repeated from generation to generation we begin to accept them as fact. Below are the 10 most popular health myths debunked with sound medical reasoning.
Myth #1: “Starve a fever, feed a cold.”
Do you starve a fever and feed a cold when you’re feeling under the weather? Or is it the other way around? Starving is never the correct answer. When you eat a nutritional, well-balanced diet, many other factors fall in place that keep your body functioning optimally. Foods that are rich in nutrients help fight infections and may help to prevent illness. A wide array of nutrients in foods; some of which we may not even know about, are essential for wellness. When you rely on dietary supplements for good nutrition you may limit your intake to just the known nutritional compounds rather than getting the full benefit of all nutrients available in food.
Myth #2: “Reading in dim light damages your eyesight.”
Good news, according to researchers from the Indiana University School of Medicine in Indianapolis: Reading in dim light doesn’t lead to permanent eye damage. While it may cause eyestrain and temporary dryness; you can read a menu in a dimly lit restaurant without it causing any long-term impairment. Likewise, the common belief that sitting too close to the TV set will ruin your eyesight is yet another old wives’ tale.
Myth #3: “Can’t sleep? Drink warm milk.”
Today there’s no scientific evidence that milk has the slightest impact on drowsiness. Milk does contain the nap-inducing amino acid tryptophan, but only in trace amounts. Eggs and cheese have more, but even an egg and cheese sandwich won’t knock you out. However, if a hot-milk nightcap seems to help you catch z’s, drink up. A little placebo effect never hurt anyone.”
Myth #4: “Cold weather will make you sick.”
In terms of infectious illnesses, germs make you sick, not cold weather itself. To catch a cold you have to come in contact with rhinoviruses and you need to be infected with influenza viruses to contract the flu. Rhinoviruses peak in spring and fall, and influenza viruses peak in the winter. While there isn’t a connection between being chilled and getting sick, cold air may contribute to conditions that lead to illness.
Myth #5: “You can catch something sitting on a public toilet seat.”
Our fear of sitting on the average toilet seat (one that isn’t visibly soiled) is overblown. While there’s no question that germs can inhabit the seat, the bulk of the organisms are fecal-borne bacteria. These can include E. coli streptococcus (the bug behind strep throat), or S. aureus (linked to serious skin problems or pneumonia). Yet just because germs are on seat the doesn’t mean they’ll make you sick. Your skin acts as a very effective barrier to keep germs out unless you have an open wound or lesion on your behind. Organisms leading to STD’s such as the herpes virus, HIV, or other sexually transmitted diseases don’t survive for long outside the human body, especially not on a cold, hard toilet seat. To infect you, they need to enter either through an open cut or sore or via a mucous membrane (your mouth or rectum, for example), which wouldn’t normally come into contact with the seat. All this makes the odds of infection from just sitting down miniscule.
Myth #6: “Chocolate causes pimples.”
Chocolate per se will not make you break out. In fact, there is little evidence that chocolate or any specific fatty foods will cause acne, but we do know that a high-sugar/high-fat diet can increase sebum production and promote inflammatory responses in the body which can lead to acne. Again, although we can’t make a direct connection between acne and foods that are high in sugar and fat, we can say that overindulging in these kinds of food may displace other nutrients that are critical to the skin’s health. Stick to skin friendly foods like fruits and vegetables.
Myth #7: “Chewing gum sits undigested in your stomach for seven years.”
Swallowed gum passes through your digestive tract in a couple of days. Chewing gum is made from gum base, sweeteners, coloring and flavoring. It’s true that your body cannot digest gum given its mixture of elastomers, resins, fats, emulsifiers and waxes, some of which resist your stomach’s digestive juices. However, the gum doesn’t remain stuck inside you. Your gut just keeps them moving through your system until they come out the other end.
Myth #8: “Excessive hat wearing leads to baldness.”
Unless you wear hats that are too tight, ripping hair away, you can ignore this myth. The X chromosome is the big gene associated with causing baldness. not what you choose to wear on your head. Also as the body becomes sensitive to androgens, a male sex hormone, hair loss becomes common.
Myth #9: “Swimming after eating is asking for trouble.”
Any strenuous exercise is tricky after a big meal, but stomach cramps that lead to death by drowning seldom happen. In fact if you’re set for a long dip, a pre-swim snack is a useful energy boost.
Myth #10: “Your urine should be almost clear.”
Dark colored urine typically means you’re dehydrated and clear urine may mean you are over hydrated. Urine that is a light yellow indicates a healthy urinary tract with healthy bacteria. Normal urine from a healthy, well hydrated person may be very yellow.
Dr. Christopher Calapai, D.O. is an Osteopathic Physician board certified in family medicine, and anti-aging medicine. Proclaimed the “The Stem Cell Guru” by the New York Daily News, Dr. Calapai is a leader in the field of stem cell therapy in the U.S. His stem cell treatments have achieved remarkable results in clinical trials on patients with conditions as varied as Alzheimer’s, arthritis, erectile dysfunction, frailty syndrome, heart, kidney and liver failure, lupus, MS and Parkinson’s. He has worked with Mike Tyson, Mickey Rourke, Steven Seagal, and Gotham’s, Donal Logue; and as a medical consultant for the New York Rangers. Connect with him via twitter @drcalapai or at www.drcal.net
Share this:
Featured Slideshow
How Your Smile Improves Your Life – and the Lives Around You
See All Slideshows
Featured Video
Extreme Exercise and Heart Health
See All Videos
Healthy Recipes
Featured Blogs
The Almighty Dollar
See All Blogs
For Men
See All Health A-Z for Men
you may also like
Can A Mediterranean Diet Pattern Slow Aging?
Delicious + Healthy Cocktails for Anytime of the Year
It's a Real Thing: Taking Psychedelic Drugs to Ease End-of-Life Anxiety
A Surprising Way to Reduce Stress
More Stories
Recipes We ❤
Apricot-Mango Mimosa
All the fun of a mimosa, but with a more tropical taste! ...
Best Summer Drink Ever: Cilantro Pineapple Margarita!
Cilantro is an amazing detoxifying herb – and it also has fantastic flavor. It pairs perfectly with pine ...
Summer Gin Cocktail
This light cocktail is inspired by the herb garden. And the lavender simple syrup in this drink is irresistibl ...
Health A-Z
Living Well
Food
Fitness
Family
Video
thirdAGE
About Us
Meet The Team
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram