Walk Away the Blues
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Walking Home
Medical Reference
Features
Video
Slideshows & Images
Quizzes
Health Tools
News Archive
Depression Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Boards
Medications
Find a Psychiatrist
Depression Guide
Overview & Causes
Symptoms & Types
Diagnosis & Treatment
Recovering & Managing
Finding Help
Related to Depression
ADHD
Anxiety & Panic Disorders
Binge Eating Disorder
Bipolar Disorder
Crisis Assistance
Mental Health
Pain Management
Pill Identifier
Postpartum Depression
Stress Management
Substance Abuse & Addiction
More Related Topics
Depression
Feature Stories
Walk Away the Blues
Never Too Late
From the WebMD Archives
Dec. 25, 2000 -- Claire Urmson began strength training several years ago to recover from an accident. To her surprise, the improvement she felt went far beyond her immediate physical problem. "I'm not somebody who loves exercise," says Urmson, 66. "But I really love the way it makes me feel."
Indeed, a recent Finnish study joins a growing body of research in suggesting that exercise can have strong psychological benefits. Scientists surveyed 663 people in Finland, ages 65 and older, in 1988 and again in 1996. Over time, the intensity of physical exercise (defined in three categories: doing necessary chores, walking regularly, and exercising strenuously, in order of increasing difficulty) decreased with age, and this decrease was associated with developing more symptoms of depression. The researchers therefore concluded that a reduction in exercise increased the risk of depression in older adults.
The study did have limitations. For instance, circumstances that impeded exercise could in and of themselves be depressing, the researchers said. But many experts believe that exercise has a direct impact on depression -- and not just in older people.
"The findings are the same in elderly people as in younger people: Exercise tends to lower depression" and anxiety, says Daniel Landers, PhD, regent's professor in the department of exercise science and physical education at Arizona State University.
Some scientists believe that exercise may increase the concentrations in the bloodstream (and therefore the brain) of the neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine, as do certain antidepressant drugs. Indeed, in a recent study of clinically depressed 50- to 77-year-olds at Duke University Medical Center, researchers found that performing regular exercise compared favorably in reducing depression over a 16-week period both with taking the antidepressant Zoloft (a commonly prescribed serotonin reuptake inhibitor), and with the combination of taking the drug and exercising.
Six months after the Duke study ended, the researchers completed a second round of interviews with the subjects to find out how they were faring. Remarkably, the scientists found that the subjects who were in the exercise-only group were far less likely to relapse into a major depression than either the group who had been on medication, or those who had combined medication with exercise.
Continued
The researchers speculated that people who attributed their improved mental health to their own personal efforts may have felt more empowered -- and thus were less likely to relapse into depression than people who may have attributed their improvement to taking a pill.
Now Duke is undertaking a new study to further examine the issue. For instance, how much of the exercise-only group's benefit had to do with the "social support" of getting together with other people to exercise? The new study will include subjects who exercise at home, as well as others who exercise in group settings.
The Duke researchers also want to focus on a recently identified phenomenon called "vascular depression." They think damage to the vessels that supply blood to the brain may be to blame in up to one third of depression cases. Where depression is caused by such basic plumbing problems, pharmaceutical solutions may turn out to be less effective than exercises that help counteract cardiovascular disease, they believe.
Depression in older adults is of special concern because it can be mistaken for dementia or other age-related ailments rather than as a potentially treatable illness. And while it is not clear that old age alone increases the risk of depression, the physical ailments that afflict many people as they grow older can cause such a reaction. So can some of their medications.
Beth Ellis, 69, thinks the camaraderie of exercising at her local YMCA is part of what works for her. "There's something about exercising in a group that's also uplifting," she says. "It's sort of a community feeling."
What's more, she says, "My experience is that exercise is the most potent antidepressant you can imagine. I've been on Prozac from time to time during really bad periods, and it got me through." But each time she's on it, she eventually wants to stop her medication, and "exercise is one of the things that lets me handle it myself."
Exercising is no simple matter for Ellis. She has Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, an incurable neurological disease that degrades sensation and motor control in the hands, feet, and limbs, leading to weakening of muscles through disuse. Ellis once was an avid runner, but as her disease progressed, running became impossible.
Continued
Losing her ability to run was a major blow for Ellis and likely triggered her depression. But now she goes to the YMCA for strength training, works on a cross-training machine, and does dance aerobics.
"So I'm still in the arena," says Ellis. "I am convinced that it really, really helps. If I'm unable to exercise for any reason, I really feel down in the dumps."
Scientists still are learning about why this is true. Is it exercise's effect on brain chemistry? Is it the boost to self-esteem? Is it the fellowship people gain when they exercise together? Or is it all of the above?
Urmson allows as how those questions are interesting. But the bottom line, she says, is simple: Exercise makes her feel better.
Has she slacked off since she first started working out after her accident? "Oh," she says with a laugh, "I'm afraid to stop."
David R. Dudley is based in Berkeley, Calif. His stories have appeared in The New Physician and The San Jose Mercury News.
WebMD Feature Reviewed by Craig H. Kliger, MD
© 2000 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
Mood Disorders: How to Recognize and Treat Them
Dealing With Antidepressant Side Effects
MS and Depression: How Are They Linked?
What Happens in Depression Treatment?
8 Foods That Help Fight Depression
Causes of Depression
further reading
Slideshow: Fitness Tips for Beginner Athletes
Slideshow: What Your Walk Says About You
Walking: How to Make It a Workout
Walking the Walk
Hiking Your Way to Better Health
Health Benefits of Family Walks
Is Walking Enough?
Walking Topics
Today on WebMD
What Is Depression?
Differences between feeling depressed and feeling blue.
Celebrities With Depression
Famous people who've struggled with persistent sadness.
Depression Myths & Facts
Learn the truth about this serious illness.
Is Your Antidepressant Working?
Tips to stay the treatment course.
Recommended for You
Health Check
Depressed? Assess Your Symptoms
Slideshow
Famous Faces With Depression
Article
Myths & Facts About Antidepressants
Article
Is My Teen Depressed?
Article
10 Warning Signs of Suicide
Article
How Depression Affects Women
Article
Guide to Depression Meds
Article
Natural Depression Treatments
Tools & Resources
Depression: Signs Your Medication Isn’t Working
Celebrities With Depression
8 Foods That Fight Depression
Detecting Depression: Symptoms
Physical Signs of Depression
Effects of Untreated Depression
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.