Vitamin & Mineral Formula For Pregnant, Lactating Women
Vitamins and Dietary Supplements
Home
Company
Products
Popular Products
Newest Products
Contact
Menu
Home / Supplements / Vitamin & Mineral Formula
Vitamin & Mineral Formula
Dosage
Take 1 tablet daily, preferably with a meal.
Packing:
Each Bottle contains 30 tablets.
Category: Supplements
Share this:
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Description
Reviews (0)
Product Description
Vitamin & Mineral Formula For Pregnant & Lactating Women
A Unique Vitamin and Mineral formula for comprehensive Nutrient care of Pregnant and Nursing Mothers.
Vitamin and Mineral supplementation help in prevention of Pregnancy complications such as preterm delivery, fetal growth restriction and preeclampsia.
Vitamin C:
Pregvyte provides 100 mg of Vitamin C which helps in prevention of premature rupture of Chorioamniotic membrane (PROM). Vitamin C is involved in synthesis of collagen which is required for maintenance of Chorioamniotic membrane.
Vitamin A, E and D:
Vitamin A boosts immunity. Vitamin D improves Immunity and prevents pre eclampsia. Vitamin E is an important lipophilic antioxidant. Vitamin E deficiency during pregnancy may cause miscarriage, preterm birth, preeclampsia, and intrauterine growth restriction.
B-Complex Vitamins:
B – Complex vitamins are required for ATP synthesis and thus required for energy production. Folic acid is very essential for satisfactory pregnancy outcome and supplementation during pregnancy improves neurodevelopment in fetus.
Iron:
During Pregnancy, deficiency of Iron results in Iron deficiency anemia. Thus, Iron supplementation is essential during pregnancy.
Calcium:
Calcium supplementation during pregnancy reduces the risk of pregnancy induced Hypertension. Calcium supplementation during pregnancy protects against low birth weight in new born Infants.
Zinc:
Zinc stimulates the activity of almost 100 enzymes which promote biochemical reactions in the body. Zinc plays an important role in DNA and RNA synthesis and thus has role in Cell replication and Cell transcription. Zinc plays an important role in Mineralization of bones.Thus Zinc supplementation improves Infant growth and development.
Vitamin & Mineral Formula For Pregnant & Lactating Women
Reviews
There are no reviews yet.
Be the first to review “Vitamin & Mineral Formula” Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Your Rating Rate… Perfect Good Average Not that bad Very Poor
Your Review *
Name *
Email *
Notify me of new posts by email.
Related Products
ACAI 1000mg Green Tea
Read more
Odorless Garlic
Read more
Royal Jelly
Read more
Potassium 99mg
Read more
Support Nutrition, Inc. • 125 Wells Avenue • Congers, NY 10920,USA • 845-423-7000
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.