Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
Ringworm on the body begins as a ring-shaped, flat rash. Gradually the ring becomes larger and spreads, with the inside of the ring clearing. The outside of the ring can be either dry and scaly or wet and crusted. On the scalp, ringworm starts as a small pimple that grows larger and creates patches of dry, bald skin. The hair can become brittle and break off and sometimes yellowish, crusty areas develop. This form of ringworm is most common in children. If the finger nails become infected, thry can become thick, brittle and discoloured. On the skin including the groin, genitals, inner thighs and buttocks, ringworm causes a red, itchy rash in the moist skin folds. As the rash gradually expands, its center clears to produce a ring.
It is children who are prone to having fungal infections, especially if they are living in a hot and humid climate. A fungal infection can also be caused by taking antibiotics. Ringworm is an infectious itchy skin disease that occurrs in small circular patches, caused by any number of fungi and mostly affects the scalp or the feet. The most common form is athlete’s foot. Although diet cannot cure ringworm or replace medical treatment, certain foods may help treat or prevent this condition. One should avoid giving children any sugary foods and instead should give them anti-fungal foods like garlic, cinnamon and yogurt. It is advisable to consult a doctor before giving supplements to children.
One should start with teaching children how to stay clean and maintain their personal hygiene. This can lessen the time of the fungal infection as well as prevent any further fungal infections. Children should be encouraged to take a bath every day and to dry themselves well, since moisture can lead to fungal infections. They should be taught to remove wet and damp shoes immediately and to dry themselves well. One should wash all clothes and towels to prevent the infection from spreading, as well as to maintain hygiene.
Most cases of ringworm are mild and can be treated with over-the-counter medicines. The purpose of these ointments is to get rid of the infection and to prevent the ringworm from spreading to other parts of the body. Antifungal creams, such as terbinafine, clotrimazole, econazole, ketoconazole, and miconazole, are specifically designed to clear skin fungal infections. While these pharmaceutical treatment options may prove to be effective, the side effects can often make sufferers feel even worse. Herbal remedies are the safest and the best option for treating children. It is possible to make an anti-fungal rinse at home and it is highly beneficial for children. One can use peppermint, lavender or chamomile to prepare this. Take two teaspoons of the herb and pour a cup of boiling water and steep it. Cool and strain the liquid. Apply the liquid on the affected area.
When it comes to essential oils, you should be careful while using them on children as they can cause certain reactions. It is advisable to consult a doctor before using essential oils.
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Treatments for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT Treatments
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Related Articles
All Stop Medicated Skin Cream Review
Forces of Nature Review
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
NatureCare AF Anti-fungal Cream Review
Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream for Athlete’s Foot Review
NutriBiotic Natural Body and Foot Powder Review
Derma E Tea Tree and E Oil Review
Why Heels Crack
Subscribe Now!
Join with thousands who are getting EXCLUSIVE CONTENT, videos, and deals
you won't find anywhere else.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
NEW ARTICLES
Anti Fungal Supplements
Anti Fungal Supplements Fungal skin infections are...
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch Jock itch (tinea cruris)...
Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet Doug Kaufmann, the a...
Essential Oil: Citronella
Essential Oil: Citronella This is a kind of grass ...
HOT TOPICS
1
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano Oil. The ...
2
When You Need to Talk to a Doctor About Cracked Feet
3
Oral Medications for Athlete’s Foot
Oral medication can be taken, in severe cases......
4
Medical Treatment for Athlete’s Foot
In very rare cases, medical intervention may be neeeded...
PRODUCT REVIEWS
3M Cavilon Antifungal Cream 3390 Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
All Stop Medicated Skin Cream Review
This review of All Stop Medicated Skin C...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
Introduction The following is an in-dept...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
This review on Athlete’s Foot Clear pr...
Athlete’s Foot Killer Review
Written below is an in-depth product rev...
Athletol Review
The following is an in-depth review of t...
Au Kah Chuen Antifungal Lotion Review
This is a review of Antifungal Lotion, w...
Avon Foot Works Healthy Anti-fungal Powder Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Avon F...
Bayer Lotrimin AF Athlete’s Foot Deodorant Powder Spray Review
A lot of products for Athlete’s fo...
Baza Antifungal Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream Review
This is a review of Moisture Barrier Ant...
Canesten Clotrimazole Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Canesten Clotrimazole Ath...
Clever Cultures For Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Clever Cultures For Athle...
Crawford Healthcare Cuplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Crawford Healthcare&...
Crystal Foot Deodorant Spray Review
This is a review of Foot Deodorant Spray...
Crystalline Salts Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
The following is a review for the Foot a...
CVS Athlete’s Foot Spray Review
This review of CVS Athlete’s Foot ...
Daktarin Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Today we will take a look at the Daktari...
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
This is a review of Deodorizing Foot Mis...
Derma E Tea Tree and E Oil Review
This is a review of Tea Tree and E Oil w...
Derman Antifungal Cream Review
In the following review you can find out...
Desenex Antifungal Spray Powder Review
If you want to find out everything there...
DeSensua Product Review
Introduction This is a review of Melaleu...
DG Health Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of DG Health Athlete’s...
Dr. Blaine’s Tineacide Anti-fungal Foot and Shoe Spray Review
Welcome to our review on Dr. Blaine’s ...
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete Foot Cream Review
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Fo...
Efficient Laboratories Hongo Killer Antifungal Spray Review
In this review, you can learn all there ...
Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream for Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream ...
Elite Sportz Equipment Foot and Shoe Odor Spray Review
This is a review of Elite Sportz Equipme...
Equate Athlete’s Foot Powder Spray Review
In this review, you can read about a pro...
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
If you want to find out all the details ...
Flexitol Medicated Foot Cream Review
In our in-depth review of Flexitol Medic...
Forces of Nature Review
Introduction This article is a review of...
Fungi Nail Toe and Foot Ointment Review
This review discusses the various factor...
FungiCure Anti-Fungal Liquid Gel Review
In this review, you can learn more about...
Gehwol Fusskraft Blue Review
This is a review of the product Fusskraf...
Generic Lotrimin Clotrimazole Anti-Fungal Cream USP Review
By reading this review you can find out ...
GoodSense Clotrimazole Foot Cream Review
This review for GoodSense Clotrimazole F...
Healing Natural Oils Product Review
Introduction This article reviews H-Athl...
Home Health Antifungal Lotion Review
The subject of this review is a product ...
Honga Cura Ointment Review
This review was written to give a compre...
Hydrozole Review
This is a review of Hydrozole. According...
Karite Gold Athlete’s Foot Review
This is a review of Karite Gold’s ...
Lafe’s Natural Body Care Foot Spray with Peppermint Oil Review
The following is a review of Foot Spray ...
Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Lamisil Athlete’s F...
Mar-v-cide Disinfectant & Germicidal Spray Review
In this review, you can read about Mar-v...
Meijer Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Meijer Athlete’s Fo...
Mellowleaf Beauty Tea Tree Oil Review
Meadowleaf Beauty manufacturers their ow...
Micatin Antifungal Cream Review
This review of Micatin Antifungal Cream ...
Miracle of Aloe Foot Repair Review
This review of Miracle Foot Repair for D...
Monray Antiperspirant Foot Treatment Review
If you are interested in learning more a...
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot & Body Wash Review
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot ...
Naturally Fresh Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray which...
Naturasil Review
Product Claims: Naturasil claims to c...
NatureCare AF Anti-fungal Cream Review
This is our in-depth review of NatureCar...
Natureplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Natureplex Athlete&#...
Nordic Care Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray manuf...
NutriBiotic Natural Body and Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Natural Body and Foo...
Odor Eaters Antibacterial Foot and Sneaker Spray Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Odorex Foot And Shoe Deodoriser Review
This review of Odorex Foot And Shoe Deod...
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano...
PersonalCare Antifungal Powder Spray Review
If you wish to learn more about Persona...
Podosan Athlete’s Foot Treatment Review
Welcome to our Podosan Athlete’s Foot ...
Quantum Health Athlete’s Foot Cure Review
This detailed review is for the product,...
Remedy Antifungal Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Ring Guard Ringworm Cream Review
If you’d like to find out more abo...
Rite Aid Clotrimazole Cream Review
Welcome to our review of the anti-fungal...
Rocket Pure Natural Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
Welcome to our review of Rocket Pure Nat...
S.S.S. Company Tetterine Ointment Review
This is a review of Tetterine Ointment w...
Scholl Advance Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Scholl Advance Athlete...
Telia Oils Toe and Foot Review
This is a review of the Toe and Foot ant...
Thornton and Ross Mycota Review
This is a review of Thornton & Ross ...
Tineacide Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Tineacide Athlete’s Foo...
Ting Antifungal Spray Powder Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
Vertico Footwear Company Ped Powder Organic Foot Powder Review
In this review you will learn all there ...
Walgreens Clotrimazole Anti-fungal Cream Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Walgre...
Wise Ways Herbals Tea-Tree Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Tea-Tree Foot Powder...
Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Zeasorb Athlete’s F...
Zema Cream Review
In the following review you can learn mo...
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.