How to Get Rid of a Cold Fast?
The Top Remedies Best Home & Natural Remedies Guide
HOME
HEALTH
HOME REMEDIES
BEAUTY
CLEANING
SKIN CARE
FOODS
HAIR CARE
HOUSE
Home / Health / How to Get Rid of a Cold Fast?
How to Get Rid of a Cold Fast?
Gerry Health Comments Off on How to Get Rid of a Cold Fast?
One of the most common things that happen to affect us the most is a common cold. It just arrives suddenly anytime and doesnвЂ™t leave us after troubling our entire nasal system for a few days. So many times in a year we suffer from a common cold and there are many reasons for it. It doesnвЂ™t depend on age as well, and everyone is equally prone to elders, children, babies or young men and women. Read more to know about cold and how to get rid of a cold fast.
Sometimes a common cold can also lead to fever and pneumonia if precautions are not taken and it is not cured of in the early stages. However, it is important to understand that running off to a doctor is not a preferred way to get rid of a cold fast, some simple home remedies work well to treat a simple thing like common cold easily at home. Moreover, if your immunity is really good and you have a strong immune system, you will almost never suffer from a cold.
WhatвЂ™s a Cold? Know More
A cold is nothing but a viral ailment caused by any of the 100 types of rhinoviruses, which account for nearly 50% of the respiratory problems. It affects people of all age groups and includes some common symptoms like a runny nose, sore throat and sneezing. However, it is important to treat a cold before it leads to other infections like strep throat, bronchitis, and pneumonia.
Symptoms of Cold:
Runny or stuffy nose
Congestion
Cough
Sore throat
Sneezing
Slight body aches or a mild headache
Generally feeling unwell
Low-grade fever
Risk Factors of Cold:
The below factors increase your chances of getting a cold:
Smoking вЂ“ Smoking increases chances of getting a cold.
Weakened Immune system вЂ“ Indicates inability of the body to fight viruses and infections.
Time of year вЂ“ although you can get a cold anytime, the winter season is more susceptible.
Exposure вЂ“ Surrounded by too many people increases chances of contracting the virus.
Home Remedies to Get Rid of a Cold Fast:
Ginger
Ginger has excellent antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties and is one of the most common and effective ingredients used to get rid of a cold fast. To benefit from this, eat ginger or drink ginger tea several times a day. You can also make a mixture some ginger, salt, and cloves and eat half a teaspoon of this several times a day. For a really runny nose, mix equal quantity of ginger powder, clarified butter and jaggery and consume this mixture every day on an empty stomach. Keep doing that till the cold goes away completely.
Garlic
Garlic is a super ingredient from the kitchen to get rid of a cold fast at home. It is good for the immune system and has excellent antiviral and antibacterial properties that open up the respiratory passages and flush out toxins from the body. To benefit from garlic, mix one crushed clove of garlic with two teaspoons of lemon juice, one teaspoon of honey and half a teaspoon of red chili powder.
Consume his daily till you get rid of the cold. You can also boil three cloves of crushed garlic in a cup of water and add a teaspoon of honey to it. Drink this two or three times a day. Or you can simply eat a clove of garlic or add a few drops of garlic oil in your food to benefit from it.
Turmeric
Turmeric is a super food in itself. It is one of the best ingredients you will get hold of to get rid of a cold fast. It acts as a natural medicine and has amazing antiseptic and antibacterial properties which help in killing the infection and providing relief from any condition.
It also fights the inflammation and helps to heal the throat almost instantly. Here just add 1/4th tsp of turmeric in a glass of warm milk and have it at bedtime every day to get rid of a cold fast. You can also take a turmeric root and suck on it when you go to bed or take its fumes. This method is almost magical. You can mix a teaspoon of turmeric powder with a little honey and have this several times a day to treat a cold really quickly.
Salt Water Gargle
Salt water gargle is magical. HavenвЂ™t we seen our parents and grandparents, doing this and advising us to do it often in order to get rid of a cold fast? Well, it is definitely not without a strong reason. This salt water gargle helps to provide a lot of relief to the troubled throat and helps to kill the infection and get rid of a cold very effectively. Here just heat up some water and add a teaspoon of salt to it. Mix this really well and use this water to gargle at least thrice a day. Make sure the water is not too hot that it harms your throat; it should be comfortably hot so that you derive the maximum benefits out of it.
Echinacea
Echinacea has been known as an effective remedy to get rid of a cold fast. It is one of the age-old remedies and is an extremely safe remedy to use as well. To use Echinacea, just take two cups of water and put it to a boil. When it starts boiling, take it off the pan. Now add a teaspoon of Echinacea leaves to it along with a teaspoon of lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey. Mix all these well and then sips this tea slowly several times a day. Keep having it till you get relief from the cold and the congestion. Echinacea is extremely beneficial in providing you relief from almost all the symptoms of a cold.
Honey
Honey is one of the most effective remedies for getting rid of a cold fast and has been used since ages for this purpose. The Nutrients and enzymes present in honey help to kill the bacteria and the viruses that cause the common cold. It also helps in soothing the irritated throat really well and shortens the lifespan of a cold. The best way is to consume two teaspoons of honey with a teaspoon of lemon juice every two hours.
You can also opt for taking a teaspoon of honey every two hours if you donвЂ™t want to take the lemon juice. Do this continuously for 2-3 days and watch the relief you get in the cold, sore throat and the runny nose. Honey is one of the best grandma remedies and used widely by a lot of people the world over to get rid of a cold fast.
Eucalyptus
Eucalyptus has anti-cough and anti-asthmatic effects. It is one of the best remedies to open a blocked nose and get rid of the congestion as well. Inhaling the vapors of eucalyptus helps a lot to get rid of a cold fast at home. To use eucalyptus, you can a simply boil some water and pour it in a bowl. Now add a few drops of eucalyptus oil in it and take the steam covering your head with a towel. Do this at least 3-4 times a day and watch the relief yourself. It is one of the most recommended remedies to treat a cold and its symptoms.
Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree oil works just as the eucalyptus oil in getting rid of the cold faster. It has excellent anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties as well that helps in proving relief from a sore throat and the congestion as well. To benefit from tea tree oil, take some water and put it to a boil. When it starts boiling, take it off the heat and transfer the water to a bowl. Add a few drops of tea tree oil to it and inhale its steam. Take the steam at least 2-3 times a day till you get rid of the cold fast.
Neti Pot
Neti pot is like a boon to get rid of a cold fast. It has been using since ages and helps to unclog a stuffy nose completely. It is the technique where water flows through the nasal passages and that helps in clearing your nasal blockages. However, you should practice this only when you know the technique really well
Take 1 or two cups of warm water and add salt to it. Pour the water into the neti pot. Now tilt your head in the sink in such a way that one nostril points towards the ceiling and the other points towards the sink. Open your mouth and breathe through it continuously.
Put the clout of the neti pot into the nostril which is facing upwards and pour water through it into the nostril. Tilt your head now in such a way that the water doesnвЂ™t reach the head and flows through the other nostril. As the neti pot is half empty with your head to the other side and continue this exercise till all the water has been consumed. Exhale and breathe out completely so that no water is left in the nostril. You will get rid of a cold only in two days if you do this once every day.
Red Onion
A simple red onion soup made with red onions and honey or brown sugar can be really beneficial for getting rid of a cold faster. To use this, slice two or three onions horizontally. Now take a bowl and put one slice of onion in a soup and add raw honey to it. Keep repeating this until the bowl is full. Now cover the bowl and leave it for about 12-15 hours. When you open the bowl there will be a thick syrup like liquid formation in it. Drink a spoonful of this syrup several times a day to get rid of a cold really fast. This is a really effective remedy to make that cold away completely in a shorter span of time.
Steam
Inhaling steam is one of the best traditional remedies that have been used since ages to get rid of a cold fast. Just take some hot water in a bowl and lean over with your nose directly over the bowl. Cover your head with a towel so that the steam doesnвЂ™t escape. Inhale the steam for at least 15-20 minutes. You can also put a few drops of eucalyptus oil in it. You will start seeing the benefits almost instantly as soon as you take steam.
Ginseng
Ginseng has long been used for getting rid of a cold fast. It is an effective remedy to treat all the symptoms associated with cold and helps to provide you a lot of relief almost instantly. It helps to boost the immune system as well and make the body stronger to fight any kind if viral infections. Here just take Вј of the ginseng root and boil it in 3 cups of water on medium heat for at least 20-30 minutes. After this, simmer for at least 3 hours. Now drink this tea at least thrice a day for a few days to get rid of a cold fast.
All the above ways are magical in treating a common cold and getting rid of it totally. These donвЂ™t have any side effects on the skin as well and you donвЂ™t need to run to the doctor and shell out huge bucks if you opt for these remedies. These are all a simple way of getting rid of a simple thing as a common cold.
Tags Cold Home remedies of cold Remedies for cold sore Remedies for earche Remedies for fever Remedies for flu Remedies for tonsil stones Remedies to get rid of a cold Remedies to get rid of cold Remedies to relieve cold Remedies to treat stuffy nose Tips to cure cold fast and overnight Ways to cure nasal congestion Ways to get rid of cold fast Ways to get rid of cold feet Ways to get rid of cough Ways to get rid of headaches Ways to get rid of runny nose Ways to get rid of throat ache Ways to treat cold naturally
Previous Home Remedies for Headaches
Next How to Get Rid of Constipation?
Related Articles
How to Stop Sneezing?
How to Get Rid of Mucus? (Home Remedies)
How to Clear Sinuses Pressure in the Best Possible Ways?
How to Get Rid of a Runny Nose? (Home Remedies)
Home Remedy for Cough
How to Get Rid of Toenail Fungus Easily?
How to Get Rid of Fever?
How to Get Rid of Stuffy Nose? (Home Remedies)
How to Remove Tonsil Stones?
Popular Posts
How to Get Rid of Ants?
How to Go to Sleep?
Home Remedies to Cure a Sore Throat
How to Get Rid of a Bruise? (Natural Home Remedies)
How to Get Rid of a Wart?
How to Remove Ear Wax?
How to Get Rid of Double Chin?
Home Remedies for Strep Throat
How to Get Rid of Spider Veins?
Home Remedies for Migraines
© Copyright 2018, All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use