Medical Treatment for Athlete's Foot
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Medical Treatment for Athlete’s Foot
See a Doctor
If you think you may have athlete’s foot, otherwise known as tinea pedis, it is important to see your doctor for a proper diagnosis. Your medical provider will ask you to discuss any previous infections and describe your current symptoms. Make sure you provide a complete history.
Your doctor might take a nail or skin sample if your symptoms look unusual or if this is a returning infection. He or she will obtain this sample by using a microscope slide to lightly scratch your skin. Your doctor may also trim your nails for a sample. Laboratory tests will be performed to confirm and identify the fungus.
A biopsy may be performed, but only in very rare cases.
Treatment
To start, your doctor may recommend using an over-the-counter anti-fungal ointment like terbinafine, clotrimazole, tolnaftate, or miconazole. These are all creams that you will apply to the infected areas.
The next step will be to try prescription antifungal medications. Some are applied topically, like butenafine, naftifine, and clotrimazole. Oral antifungals include itraconazole, fluconazole, and terbinafine. These are taken in a capsule form.
Usually, your doctor won’t prescribe an oral anti-fungal because they may cause serious side effects and are quite expensive.
As with all antibiotics, even if you think the infection is gone, you must follow your doctor’s orders and take the medicine exactly as prescribed. If you don’t, there’s a good chance the infection will resurface.
Types of Athlete’s Foot
There are a few different types of athlete’s foot. They include:
Toe Web: The most common infection, it usually occurs between your toes. If you think you have toe web, use nonprescription antifungals and dry and clean your feet often.
Moccasin-type infections: These are so-named because your skin takes on a scaly, thick look, much like the skin of a snake. This type of infection is really hard to eradicate because it’s on the foot’s sole where the skin is really thick. Since it is difficult to get rid of, you may need a prescription anti-fungal ointment.
Blisters: Also known as vesicular infections, these are usually on your instep. They will also sometimes occur on the top of the foot, the bottom of your foot, heel, or between the toes. This could also be caused by bacteria, but it is very uncommon. Since it is more serious:
The blister may need to be removed.
You or your doctor will have to dry the blister out. You can usually do this by using a Burow’s solution to soak your feet for a few days. After the blister is dry, you can use an anti-fungal cream.
If the infection is caused by bacteria, you’ll need to take an antibiotic as well.
If your infection is really bad, your medical provider may also give you corticosteroid pills.
Recurrence
There are a number of reasons that athlete’s foot may return. As discussed above, if you do not take your medicine as prescribed, you are increasing the chance of the infection returning. The other issue may be that you are not doing enough to prevent the fungal infection.
The ways to prevent a fungal infection are:
Let your feet breathe by wearing shoes or sandals.
Always dry the area between your toes.
Go barefoot as much as possible when you’re at home.
Change your socks whenever they get damp.
Powder your feet with an anti-fungal powder or talcum.
Let your shoes air out at least every other day.
Wear flip flops when you’re at a public pool or shower.
Final Thoughts
Many don’t get their athlete’s foot treated because they don’t notice it or are not bothered by the symptoms. However, the longer you let the infection linger, the higher the chance that you may get a bacterial infection that will require medical treatment.
Also, keep in mind that if you have an infection, you may be spreading it to others.
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Treatments for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT Treatments
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Related Articles
GoodSense Clotrimazole Foot Cream Review
Can Moose Saliva Really Cure Foot Fungus?
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
Naturally Fresh Foot Spray Review
Athlete’s Foot Clear Review
Home Remedies for Itching Feet
Kill Fungus Naturally with Herbs
Monray Antiperspirant Foot Treatment Review
Subscribe Now!
Join with thousands who are getting EXCLUSIVE CONTENT, videos, and deals
you won't find anywhere else.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
NEW ARTICLES
Anti Fungal Supplements
Anti Fungal Supplements Fungal skin infections are...
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch Jock itch (tinea cruris)...
Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet Doug Kaufmann, the a...
Fungal Infections on the Groin
Fungal Infections on the Groin Fungus causes infec...
HOT TOPICS
1
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano Oil. The ...
2
When You Need to Talk to a Doctor About Cracked Feet
3
Oral Medications for Athlete’s Foot
Oral medication can be taken, in severe cases......
4
Medical Treatment for Athlete’s Foot
In very rare cases, medical intervention may be neeeded...
PRODUCT REVIEWS
3M Cavilon Antifungal Cream 3390 Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
All Stop Medicated Skin Cream Review
This review of All Stop Medicated Skin C...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
Introduction The following is an in-dept...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
This review on Athlete’s Foot Clear pr...
Athlete’s Foot Killer Review
Written below is an in-depth product rev...
Athletol Review
The following is an in-depth review of t...
Au Kah Chuen Antifungal Lotion Review
This is a review of Antifungal Lotion, w...
Avon Foot Works Healthy Anti-fungal Powder Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Avon F...
Bayer Lotrimin AF Athlete’s Foot Deodorant Powder Spray Review
A lot of products for Athlete’s fo...
Baza Antifungal Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream Review
This is a review of Moisture Barrier Ant...
Canesten Clotrimazole Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Canesten Clotrimazole Ath...
Clever Cultures For Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Clever Cultures For Athle...
Crawford Healthcare Cuplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Crawford Healthcare&...
Crystal Foot Deodorant Spray Review
This is a review of Foot Deodorant Spray...
Crystalline Salts Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
The following is a review for the Foot a...
CVS Athlete’s Foot Spray Review
This review of CVS Athlete’s Foot ...
Daktarin Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Today we will take a look at the Daktari...
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
This is a review of Deodorizing Foot Mis...
Derma E Tea Tree and E Oil Review
This is a review of Tea Tree and E Oil w...
Derman Antifungal Cream Review
In the following review you can find out...
Desenex Antifungal Spray Powder Review
If you want to find out everything there...
DeSensua Product Review
Introduction This is a review of Melaleu...
DG Health Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of DG Health Athlete’s...
Dr. Blaine’s Tineacide Anti-fungal Foot and Shoe Spray Review
Welcome to our review on Dr. Blaine’s ...
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete Foot Cream Review
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Fo...
Efficient Laboratories Hongo Killer Antifungal Spray Review
In this review, you can learn all there ...
Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream for Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream ...
Elite Sportz Equipment Foot and Shoe Odor Spray Review
This is a review of Elite Sportz Equipme...
Equate Athlete’s Foot Powder Spray Review
In this review, you can read about a pro...
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
If you want to find out all the details ...
Flexitol Medicated Foot Cream Review
In our in-depth review of Flexitol Medic...
Forces of Nature Review
Introduction This article is a review of...
Fungi Nail Toe and Foot Ointment Review
This review discusses the various factor...
FungiCure Anti-Fungal Liquid Gel Review
In this review, you can learn more about...
Gehwol Fusskraft Blue Review
This is a review of the product Fusskraf...
Generic Lotrimin Clotrimazole Anti-Fungal Cream USP Review
By reading this review you can find out ...
GoodSense Clotrimazole Foot Cream Review
This review for GoodSense Clotrimazole F...
Healing Natural Oils Product Review
Introduction This article reviews H-Athl...
Home Health Antifungal Lotion Review
The subject of this review is a product ...
Honga Cura Ointment Review
This review was written to give a compre...
Hydrozole Review
This is a review of Hydrozole. According...
Karite Gold Athlete’s Foot Review
This is a review of Karite Gold’s ...
Lafe’s Natural Body Care Foot Spray with Peppermint Oil Review
The following is a review of Foot Spray ...
Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Lamisil Athlete’s F...
Mar-v-cide Disinfectant & Germicidal Spray Review
In this review, you can read about Mar-v...
Meijer Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Meijer Athlete’s Fo...
Mellowleaf Beauty Tea Tree Oil Review
Meadowleaf Beauty manufacturers their ow...
Micatin Antifungal Cream Review
This review of Micatin Antifungal Cream ...
Miracle of Aloe Foot Repair Review
This review of Miracle Foot Repair for D...
Monray Antiperspirant Foot Treatment Review
If you are interested in learning more a...
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot & Body Wash Review
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot ...
Naturally Fresh Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray which...
Naturasil Review
Product Claims: Naturasil claims to c...
NatureCare AF Anti-fungal Cream Review
This is our in-depth review of NatureCar...
Natureplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Natureplex Athlete&#...
Nordic Care Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray manuf...
NutriBiotic Natural Body and Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Natural Body and Foo...
Odor Eaters Antibacterial Foot and Sneaker Spray Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Odorex Foot And Shoe Deodoriser Review
This review of Odorex Foot And Shoe Deod...
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano...
PersonalCare Antifungal Powder Spray Review
If you wish to learn more about Persona...
Podosan Athlete’s Foot Treatment Review
Welcome to our Podosan Athlete’s Foot ...
Quantum Health Athlete’s Foot Cure Review
This detailed review is for the product,...
Remedy Antifungal Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Ring Guard Ringworm Cream Review
If you’d like to find out more abo...
Rite Aid Clotrimazole Cream Review
Welcome to our review of the anti-fungal...
Rocket Pure Natural Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
Welcome to our review of Rocket Pure Nat...
S.S.S. Company Tetterine Ointment Review
This is a review of Tetterine Ointment w...
Scholl Advance Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Scholl Advance Athlete...
Telia Oils Toe and Foot Review
This is a review of the Toe and Foot ant...
Thornton and Ross Mycota Review
This is a review of Thornton & Ross ...
Tineacide Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Tineacide Athlete’s Foo...
Ting Antifungal Spray Powder Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
Vertico Footwear Company Ped Powder Organic Foot Powder Review
In this review you will learn all there ...
Walgreens Clotrimazole Anti-fungal Cream Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Walgre...
Wise Ways Herbals Tea-Tree Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Tea-Tree Foot Powder...
Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Zeasorb Athlete’s F...
Zema Cream Review
In the following review you can learn mo...
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.