Zinc: Benefits, intake, sources, deficiency, and side effects
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What are the health benefits of zinc?
Last updated	 Tue 5 December 2017	 Last updated	Tue 5 Dec 2017
By Joseph Nordqvist
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Benefits
Recommended intake
Sources
Deficiency
Precautions
Zinc is a trace element that is necessary for a healthy immune system. A lack of zinc can make a person more susceptible to disease and illness.
It is responsible for a number of functions in the human body, and it helps stimulate the activity of at least 100 different enzymes. Only a small intake of zinc is necessary to reap the benefits.
Currently, the recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for zinc in the United States is 8 milligrams (mg) a day for women and 11 mg a day for men.
The element is naturally found in many different foods, but it is also available as a dietary supplement.
Fast facts on zinc
Here are some key points about zinc. More detail and supporting information is in the main article.
Zinc is an important aspect of nutrition.
Zinc deficiency can occur if there is not a high enough consumption from diet or supplementation.
Deficiency in children can lead to growth impediments and increased risk of infection.
During pregnancy and lactation, women may need extra zinc.
Benefits
Zinc is vital for a healthy immune system, correctly synthesizing DNA, promoting healthy growth during childhood, and healing wounds.
The following are some of the health benefits of zinc:
1) Zinc and regulating immune function
Zinc is an "essential trace element" because our
bodies only need very small amounts of it.
According to the European Journal of Immunology, the human body needs zinc to activate T lymphocytes (T cells).
T cells help the body in two ways:
controlling and regulating immune responses
attacking infected or cancerous cells
Zinc deficiency can severely impair immune system function.
According to a study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, "zinc-deficient persons experience increased susceptibility to a variety of pathogens."
2) Zinc for treating diarrhea
According to the World Health Organization, diarrhea kills an astonishing 1.6 million children under 5 every year. Zinc pills may help reduce diarrhea.
A PLoS Medicine study, which "followed a nationwide public health campaign to increase zinc use for childhood diarrhea in Bangladesh," confirmed that a 10-day course of zinc tablets is effective at treating diarrhea and also helps prevent future bouts of the condition.
3) Zinc effects on learning and memory
Research conducted at the University of Toronto and published in the journal Neuron suggested that zinc has a crucial role in regulating how neurons communicate with one another, affecting how memories are formed and how we learn.
4) Zinc to treat the common cold
Zinc lozenges were found to shorten the duration of common cold episodes by up to 40 percent in a study published in the Open Respiratory Medicine Journal.
In addition, a Cochrane review concluded that taking "zinc (lozenges or syrup) is beneficial in reducing the duration and severity of the common cold in healthy people, when taken within 24 hours of onset of symptoms."
5) Zinc's role in wound healing
Zinc plays a role in maintaining skin integrity and structure. Patients experiencing chronic wounds or ulcers often have deficient zinc metabolism and lower serum zinc levels. Zinc is often used in skin creams for treating diaper rash or other skin irritations.
A Swedish study that analysed zinc in wound healing concluded, "topical zinc may stimulate leg ulcer healing by enhancing re-epithelialization, decreasing inflammation and bacterial growth. When zinc is applied on wounds, it not only corrects a local zinc deficit but also acts pharmacologically."
However, research has not consistently shown that use of zinc sulfate in patients with chronic wounds or ulcers is effective at improving healing rate.
6) Zinc and decreased risk of age-related chronic disease
A study from researchers at Oregon State University have found that improving zinc status through diet and supplementation may reduce the risk of inflammatory diseases. It has been known for decades that zinc has a significant role in immune function. Deficiency has been linked to increased inflammation in chronic disease and triggering new inflammatory processes.
8) Zinc for preventing age-related macular degeneration (AMD)
Zinc prevents cellular damage in the retina, which helps in delaying the progression of AMD and vision loss, according to a study published in the Archives of Ophthalmology.
9) Zinc and fertility
Several studies and trials have linked poor zinc status with low sperm quality. For example, one study in the Netherlands found that subjects had a higher sperm count after zinc sulfate and folic acid supplementation. In another study, researchers concluded that poor zinc intake may be a risk factor for low quality of sperm and male infertility.
10) Other possible zinc benefits
Zinc may also be effective for the treatment of:
acne - one study, published in JAMA, showed promising results of zinc sulfate for the treatment of acne
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
osteoporosis
preventing and treating pneumonia
Recommended intake
Adequate zinc intake is especially important for children because even mild zinc deficiency can impede growth, increase risk of infection, and increase risk of diarrhea and respiratory disease.
The recommended intake for children 1-8 years old ranges from 3-5 milligrams, increasing as the child gets older.
Males 9-13 years old require 8 milligrams of zinc per day. After the age of 14, the requirement increases to the 11 milligrams per day that is required for all adult males. For females over the age of 8, the requirement stays stable at 8 milligrams per day, except for ages 14-18, where the recommendation increases to 9 milligrams per day.
Pregnant and lactating women have an increased need for zinc at 11-13 milligrams per day, depending on age.
Sources
A selection of foods purporting to contain good levels of zinc.
The best sources of zinc are beans, animal meats, nuts, fish and other seafood, whole grain cereals, and dairy products. Zinc is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods.
Vegetarians may require up to 50 percent more than the recommended intake of zinc because of low bioavailability of zinc from plant-based foods.
Foods with the highest reported zinc content are:
raw oysters (Pacific), 3 ounces: 14.1 milligrams
beef, lean chuck roast, braised, 3 ounces: 7.0 milligrams
baked beans, canned, ½ cup: 6.9 milligrams
crab, King Alaskan, cooked, 3 ounces: 6.5 milligrams
ground beef, lean, 3 ounces: 5.3 milligrams
lobster, cooked, 3 ounces: 3.4 milligrams
pork loin, lean, cooked, 3 ounces: 2.9 milligrams
wild rice, cooked, ½ cup: 2.2 milligrams
peas, green, cooked, 1 cup: 1.2 milligrams
yogurt, plain, 8 ounces: 1.3 milligrams
pecans, 1 ounces: 1.3 milligrams
peanuts, dry roasted, 1 ounces: 0.9 milligrams
Zinc supplements are also available in the form of capsules and tablets. However, the tolerable upper limit for zinc is 40 milligrams for males and females over 18 years.
It has been proven time and again that isolating certain nutrients in supplement form will not provide the same health benefits as consuming the nutrient from a whole food. First focus on obtaining your daily zinc requirement from foods, then use supplements as a backup if necessary. Zinc supplements are available to purchase in many health food stores and online.
Deficiency
Normally, zinc deficiency is due to insufficient dietary intake. However, it may also be due to malabsorption and chronic illnesses such as diabetes, malignancy (cancer), liver disease, and sickle cell disease.
Zinc deficiency signs include:
loss of appetite
anemia
slow wound healing
skin conditions such as acne or eczema
abnormal taste and smell
depressed growth
altered cognition
depression (more research needed)
diarrhea
hair loss
Zinc deficiency during pregnancy may increase the chances of a difficult or prolonged birth.
Precautions
Zinc has many health benefits, but excessive zinc intake can be harmful. Adverse effects of severely high zinc intake may include:
nausea
vomiting
loss of appetite
stomach pains
headaches
diarrhea
Excess zinc may suppress copper absorption, according to a study published in Biological Trace Element Research.
There is also some evidence that increased levels of zinc in the body might play a role in the development of kidney stones. Research into this and other health benefits of zinc are happening now, but we have known for decades that zinc is important to good health.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Tips for a healthy immune system What are the best ways to boost the immune system and can they give you enhanced protection against infections and diseases? We take a look. Read now
All you need to know about zinc deficiency A look at zinc deficiency, a condition where the body doesn’t have enough of the mineral. Included are details on causes and how it is diagnosed. Read now
Everything you need to know about vitamin B-12 Vitamin B-12 is an essential vitamin necessary for healthy nerve tissue, brain function, and red blood cell production. The vitamin is found in many animal products such as poultry, beef, eggs, and dairy products. The article examines its benefits and the health problems that accompany a deficiency of vitamin B-12. Read now
Can zinc help treat erectile dysfunction? Erectile dysfunction occurs when a man is unable to perform sexually as he cannot maintain a successful erection. In this MNT Knowledge Center article, learn about zinc and its possible effects on erectile dysfunction. Also, find out more about zinc deficiency and zinc supplementation. Read now
Everything you need to know about head cold A head cold is a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. It is usually a mild illness, but it can have a significant impact on everyday activities. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains the causes, risk factors, and symptoms of a head cold, as well as how to treat and prevent them and when to see a doctor. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last updated by Yvette Brazier on Tue 5 December 2017.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
"Dietary Supplement Fact Sheet: Zinc". U.S. Office of Dietary Supplements. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Kaltenberg J, Plum LM, Ober-Blöbaum JL, Hönscheid A, Rink L, Haase H. "Zinc signals promote IL-2-dependent proliferation of T cells." Eur J Immunol. 2010 May;40(5):1496-503. doi: 10.1002/eji.200939574. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Shankar AH, Prasad AS. "Zinc and immune function: the biological basis of altered resistance to infection." Am J Clin Nutr. 1998 Aug;68(2 Suppl):447S-463S. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Singh M, Das RR. "Zinc for the common cold." Cochrane Database Syst Rev.. 2011 Feb 16;(2):CD001364. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD001364.pub3. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Agren MS. "Studies on zinc in wound healing." Acta Derm Venereol Suppl (Stockh). 1990;154:1-36. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Zinc and inflammation — age-related zinc deficiency may contribute to chronic disease risk, Marie Spano, MS, RD, CSCS, CSSD, Today's Dietitian, Vol. 15 No. 1 P. 52, accessed 21 January 2015.
Age-Related Eye Disease Study Research Group. "A randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial of high-dose supplementation with vitamins C and E, beta carotene, and zinc for age-related macular degeneration and vision loss: AREDS report no. 8." Arch Ophthalmol. 2001 Oct;119(10):1417-36. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Improving male fertility — research suggests a nutrient-dense diet may play an integral role, Sharon Palmer, RD, Today's Dietitian, Vol. 15 No. 6 P. 40, accessed 21 January 2015.
Gerd Michaëlsson, MD; Lennart Juhlin, MD; Anders Vahlquist, MD. "Effects of Oral Zinc and Vitamin A in Acne." JAMA Arch Dermatol. 1977;113(1):31-36. doi:10.1001/archderm.1977.01640010033003. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Research shows combination of key nutrients reduces stress, emotional problems in ADHD, Today's Dietitian, accessed 21 January 2015.
Wolfgang Maret, Harold H. Sandstead. "Zinc requirements and the risks and benefits of zinc supplementation." Journal of Trace Elements in Medicine and Biology. Volume 20, Issue 1, 10 May 2006, Pages 3–18. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Wapnir RA, Balkman C. "Inhibition of copper absorption by zinc. Effect of histidine." Biol Trace Elem Res. 1991 Jun;29(3):193-202. Accessed October 17th 2013.
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Nordqvist, Joseph. "What are the health benefits of zinc?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 5 Dec. 2017. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/263176.php>
APA
Nordqvist, J. (2017, December 5). "What are the health benefits of zinc?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/263176.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/263176.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);