Selenium Deficiency: Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment
Newsletter
Selenium Deficiency
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD on January 16, 2018 — Written by Natalie Olsen
Importance
Symptoms
Risk factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Outlook
What is selenium deficiency?
Selenium is an important mineral. It’s necessary for many processes, such as:
thyroid hormone metabolism
DNA synthesis
reproduction
protection from infection
Selenium deficiency refers to not having enough selenium in your system. This can cause several health problems.
The amount of selenium in food sources is largely determined by the quality of the soil used to grow them. Rainfall, evaporation, and pH levels all affect selenium concentration in soil. This makes selenium deficiency more common in certain parts of the world. In the United States, selenium deficiency is rare. However, an estimated 1 billion people around the world are affected by selenium deficiency, according to a 2017 review.
That same review predicts that the effects of climate change will gradually decrease soil selenium concentrations in many parts of the world, including the Southwestern United States.
What does selenium do?
Selenium is a particularly important mineral because it supports the function of several systems. These include the endocrine, immune, and cardiovascular systems. The thyroid, part of the endocrine system, is the organ with the highest concentration of selenium per weight of organ tissue.
A suggests that there may even be a link between selenium deficiency and certain types of cancer. However, more research is needed to make any firm conclusions.
Selenium deficiency might also influence , but again, more research is needed in this area.
What are the symptoms?
Selenium deficiency can produce a range of symptoms. The most common ones are:
infertility in men and women
muscle weakness
fatigue
mental fog
hair loss
weakened immune system
Who’s at risk?
In addition to living in an area with soil low in selenium, the following things can also increase your risk of selenium deficiency, regardless of where you live:
undergoing dialysis
having HIV
having a digestive disorder, such as Crohn’s disease
Each of these things can affect your body’s absorption of selenium, even if you’re getting enough selenium through your diet.
Who is adequate selenium especially important for?
Adequate selenium is especially important for some groups, such as people who:
have thyroid diseases like Graves disease
have thyroid nodules
have cancer
have weakened immune function
are pregnant
are already deficient
How is it diagnosed?
Selenium deficiency can be hard for doctors to diagnose. This is because there isn’t a widely available test for it. In some cases, your doctor can measure your levels of glutathione peroxidase. This is an enzyme that requires selenium to function. If your level is low, you may not have enough selenium.
How is it treated?
The first-line treatment for selenium deficiency is to try to eat more foods that are high in selenium. Selenium-rich foods include:
Brazil nuts
yellowfin tuna
rice
beans
whole-wheat bread
The National Institutes of Health recommends that people over the age of 14 try to get 55 micrograms (mcg) of selenium per day. For women who are pregnant or lactating, this increases to 70 mcg. Anything over 900 mcg per day can be toxic. Signs of too much selenium include a garlic-like odor on your breath and a metallic taste in your mouth.
When foods high in selenium aren’t an option, selenium supplements can also help. Many multivitamins contain selenium, but you can also find it as a standalone product. Selenium supplements usually come in the form of either selenomethionine or selenite. Selenomethionine tends to be easier for your body to absorb, so it may be a better option for more severe deficiency cases.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration doesn’t monitor the purity or quality of supplements like they do for drugs. Talk to your doctor before you begin taking a selenium supplement.
The bottom line
Although selenium deficiency is rare, it’s important to make sure you’re getting enough of it and absorbing it properly. If you think you may have a selenium deficiency, work with your doctor to rule out other possible causes of your symptoms.
Medically reviewed by Natalie Butler, RD, LD on January 16, 2018 — Written by Natalie Olsen
related stories
10 Signs and Symptoms of Iodine Deficiency
The 11 Most Nutrient Dense Foods on The Planet
Mineral Deficiency
How to Identify and Treat a Vitamin E Deficiency
How Cooking Affects the Nutrient Content of Foods
READ THIS NEXT
10 Signs and Symptoms of Iodine Deficiency
Written by Ryan Raman, MS, RD
An iodine deficiency can cause uncomfortable and even severe symptoms, which often resemble those of hypothyroidism. Here are 10 signs and symptoms of…
READ MORE
The 11 Most Nutrient Dense Foods on The Planet
Written by Kris Gunnars, BSc
For optimal health, it is a good idea to choose the foods that contain the most nutrients. Here are the 11 most nutrient dense foods on earth.
READ MORE
Mineral Deficiency
Your body requires many minerals to function properly. Learn how mineral deficiency occurs and how it's treated.
READ MORE
How to Identify and Treat a Vitamin E Deficiency
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Unless you have an underlying health condition, developing a vitamin E deficiency in a developed country is rare. Here's what you need to know.
READ MORE
How Cooking Affects the Nutrient Content of Foods
Written by Franziska Spritzler, RD, CDE
This article reviews how the different cooking methods affect the nutrient content of foods. Some nutrients may decrease, others may increase.
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 142172 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560