Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) Deficiency Associated with Triple the Risk of Dementia | Dr. Gina's Blog
Dr. Gina's Blog
Official Blog of Dr. Gina Nick and DrGina.com
Home
About Dr. Gina
Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) Deficiency Associated with Triple the Risk of Dementia
A study just published in the British Medical Association’s Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychology demonstrated a strong correlation between folic acid deficiency and dementia in elders. This study follows numerous earlier reports of a similar connection between folic acid and mental decline.
There was a study published last year in the Lancet showing a clear and direct improvement in short-term memory, mental agility and verbal fluency among persons over 50 who took a daily dose of 800 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid.
Researchers identified a solid link between folic acid deficiency and birth defects as early as 1965. It was not until 1992 that the US Public Health Service shared this critical information with the country and recommended that all women of childbearing age consume 400 mcg of folic acid per day. It took the scientific community almost THIRTY YEARS to accept that a nutrient deficiency night cause a major distortion in neurological development and actually come forward with the information.
In health,
Dr. Gina L. Nick
NMD PhD
President California Naturopathic Doctors Association
Click here to view the article referenced in the post above.
Share this:
Email
Twitter
Facebook
Print
Reddit
Like this:
Like Loading...
This entry was posted on Wednesday, February 13th, 2008 at 10:00 am and is filed under Diet and Disease, Latest Nutritional Research, Nutritional Supplements and Disease.	You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
Post navigation
« Previous Post Next Post »
One Response to Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) Deficiency Associated with Triple the Risk of Dementia
reference75.com says:
July 6, 2013 at 10:26 am
George Forman used to have a monopoly in the genre of
former athletes marketing indoor counter top grills.
I prayed for a real food processor that would slice, dice, chop,
blend food with ease, and did not have to be churned manually.
So I am going to share with you, from my personal experiences over the years,
pricing tips on twenty of the most common items sold at a garage sale.
LikeLike
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Welcome to the Dr. Gina Blog
Every day, licensed Naturopathic Medical Doctors are exposed to news, information, and research that affects the health and well-being of patients, friends and family. Each day more information is released on natural medicine, prevention and health.
The hope is that you enjoy the information and find value in the shared thoughts and personal experiences about health and vitality, the planet and the power of natural medicine. Feel free to chime in with comments and experiences of your own.
In health,
Dr. Gina Nick, NMD PhD
CA and HI Licensed Naturopathic Physician
HealthBridge Medical Center
President Emeritus, California Naturopathic Doctors Association
Subscribe in a reader
Subscribe to Email Updates
Subscribe to drgina by Email
The link above will allow you to sign up to receive an email whenever Dr. Gina posts a new item to the blog.
LINKS
DrGina.com
Recent Posts
Personalized Nutrients Two Month Medical Program
Personalized Nutrients Two Month Medical Program
“Healthy Mind. Healthy Life.”
We love patient testimonials!
Beauty from the Inside Out and Outside In
Categories
ADHD
agriculture
allergies
Angel Light Academy Leadership Training Institute
antibiotics
anxiety treatment
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
Autism
Autism and Mercury
brain gut connection
Childhood Nutrition
cholesterol
Depression
Diabetes
Diet and Disease
dr. gina nick
Drug Addiction Natural Treatment
Ear Infections
glutathione
healthbridge medical center
Healthcare Politics
heart disease
Heavy Metals
Hormone Replacement Therapy
Immune Support
Industry News
infant health
Inflammation
Latest Nutritional Research
natural treatment for depression
NatureThroid
Naturopathic Medicine
News
Nutritional Supplements and Disease
Obesity
organic foods
Orthomolecular Medicine
Orthomolecular Psychiatry
Pain
Pharmaceuticals
Pregnancy
Prevention
Purification
Purification Program
Regenerative Medicine
Sickness Syndrome
sottopelle therapy
testosterone therapy
Thyroid Health
Toxins and Detoxification
Weight loss
Women's Health
www.drgina.com
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: