Tiger Balm: Uses, Formulations, and Precautions
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
An Overview of Tiger Balm
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Osteoarthritis
Living With
Symptoms
Treatment
Knee Osteoarthritis
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Support & Coping
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Arthritis Osteoarthritis Living With
An Overview of Tiger Balm
An Over-The-Counter Topical Pain Reliever
Print
By Carol Eustice | Medically reviewed by Casey Gallagher, MD
Updated March 12, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
How It Works Use
Forms Side Effects
View All
Back To Top
Photo from Amazon
More in Osteoarthritis
Living With
Symptoms
Treatment
Knee Osteoarthritis
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Support & Coping
Tiger Balm is a topical over-the-counter pain reliever that contains ingredients such as camphor, menthol, cajuput oil, and clove oil. It comes as a cream, gel, or liquid that is applied superficially to the area of pain and absorbed through the skin. Tiger Balm is often used for relief of a variety of types of pain, including back pain, joint pain, stiffness, sprains, and arthritis pain.
Tiger Balm has a long history. It is manufactured and distributed by Haw Par Healthcare in Singapore, boasting a "secret" herbal formula that dates back as far as the Chinese emperors. Today, over 20 million jars of Tiger Balm are sold each year in over 70 countries.
How It Works
The active components of Tiger Balm are extracted from plants and held together by paraffin oil. Menthol, eucalyptus, and oil of wintergreen are believed to relieve pain by briefly inducing a sensation of discomfort, possibly serving as a distraction from the pain. Such formulations are called counterirritants and offer temporary pain relief.
Camphor, which comes from the Cinnamomum camphora plant, induces warm and cold sensations in the skin and increases blood flow.
Menthol, which is made from mint oils, may induce constriction of the muscles inside the blood vessels, which has been shown to reduce pain.
Cajuput oil comes from cajuput trees and is used for pain relief from toothaches and headaches in some cultures.
Cassia oil, which comes from the bark of the Cinnamomum cassia plant, may have an anti-inflammatory effect.
Demetholized mint oil comes from a peppermint plant and has been used as a topical treatment for pain.
Clove oil, which comes from a clove plant, is used for pain relief from toothaches.
Tiger balm is generally used for relief of deep pain, such as musculoskeletal pain, but it has also been used for superficial pain, such as the pain of shingles. There are also claims that it can relieve headaches, sinus congestion, and discomfort from mosquito bites. Research has shown it to be as effective as Paracetamol (acetaminophen) in the treatment of headaches.
Use
You can use Tiger Balm even if you use oral over-the-counter or prescription pain relievers. You should check with your doctor if you plan to use it along with another topical pain reliever because the combination may irritate your skin. Tiger Balm is only used topically.
Tiger Balm is used PRN, which means that you can use it as needed when your pain arises. Most people will apply it several times a day and reapply when the pain returns. It should relieve your pain within 10 to 20 minutes.
Available Forms
There are several different formulations available, all of which contain the same ingredients and can be used differently, depending on the location and type of pain.
Tiger Balm formulations include:
Tiger Balm Extra-Strength Pain-Relieving Ointment: This is the standard Tiger Balm ointment formula and can be found in most drugstores. It has a strong menthol scent.
Tiger Balm Ultra-Strength Rub: This ointment contains more pain-relieving menthol than Extra-Strength Tiger Balm and is non-staining. It also has a strong menthol scent.
Tiger Balm Arthritis Rub: Designed specifically for arthritis pain, this rub is a cream rather than an ointment. It comes in an 'arthritis-friendly pump' and is alcohol-free, so it should not irritate the skin.
Tiger Balm Neck & Shoulder Rub: This option is designed for fast relief of neck and shoulder pain and has a 'vanishing scent.'
Tiger Balm Patch: Similar to other pain relieving gel patches, this product is designed for larger muscle and joint pain relief. It works particularly well on shoulder and lower back pain. The odor is minimal.
Tiger Balm Liniment: This is a liquid version of Tiger Balm that can be applied to larger areas to relieve pain.
Tiger Balm Muscle Rub: Formulated for muscle strains, this non-greasy cream is designed to ease pain from exercise and other physical activity.
Precautions and Side Effects
Tiger Balm is for external use only, should not be taken by mouth, and should not come in contact with your eyes or other sensitive areas, such as your ear canals, vagina, or rectum. You should not use Tiger Balm on an open wound.
Test the product on a small area first to make sure it doesn't cause irritation before applying it widely on your skin. Skin irritation can produce pain, redness, or, rarely, bleeding of the affected area.
Tiger balm may also cause an allergic reaction, which can manifest with a skin rash, swelling of the skin or throat, or breathing difficulties.
A Word From Verywell
Sometimes pain is caused by a serious or urgent medical condition, and often it is caused by a non-life-threatening problem, such as osteoarthritis. Once you have a diagnosis for the cause of your pain, you can consider using Tiger Balm. You are the best judge of whether it is working for you, and you can decide how often you will use it.
Be sure to tell your doctor if you are using Tiger Balm or any other non-prescription oral or topical medications, as they can interact with prescription medications and cause side effects.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Learn tips for managing arthrits pain, medications, and daily challenges.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Tiger Balm UK. History of Tiger Balm. http://www.tigerbalm.com/ukhistory.html
Johnson CR,Porter SG,Coats D,et al. No Camphor Toxicity in Cambodian Infants. Glob Pediatr Health.2017 Apr 24;4:2333794X17702980. doi: 10.1177/2333794X17702980. eCollection 2017.
Amato A, Liotta R, Mulè F. Effects of menthol on circular smooth muscle of human colon: analysis of the mechanism of action. Eur J Pharmacol. 2014 Oct 5;740:295-301. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.07.018. Epub 2014 Jul 18.
Kotaka T, Kimura S, Kashiwayanagi M, Iwamoto J. Camphor induces cold and warm sensations with increases in skin and muscle blood flow in human. Biol Pharm Bull. 2014;37(12):1913-8.
Pannee C, Chandhanee I, Wacharee L. Antiinflammatory effects of essential oil from the leaves of Cinnamomum cassia and cinnamaldehyde on lipopolysaccharide-stimulated J774A.1 cells. J Adv Pharm Technol Res. 2014 Oct;5(4):164-70. doi: 10.4103/2231-4040.143034.
Continue Reading
Article
Stopain Is a Topical Analgesic for Minor Arthritis Pain
List
The 8 Best Arthritis Creams of 2019
Article
How Does BENGAY Relieve Minor Aches From Arthritis?
Article
Can Icy Hot Relieve Arthritis Pain?
Article
Does JointFlex Really Help Arthritis Pain?
Article
Can Topical Creams Help Your Arthritis Pain?
Article
Does Blue-Emu Help Osteoarthritis Pain?
Article
Can WD-40 Really Help Arthritis?
Article
Proper Use of Extra Strength Tylenol
Article
Which Tylenol Medication Should You Take?
Article
Salonpas Is an Over-The-Counter Topical Pain Patch
Article
Safety Precautions for Voltaren Gel for Arthritis
Article
Should Pain Medication Be Taken on a Schedule?
Article
The Science Behind 7 Natural Treatment Options for Psoriatic Arthritis
List
The Best Paraffin Baths for Soothing Arthritis Aches and Pains
Article
Arnica As a Natural Treatment Option for Arthritis
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more