Antidepressant Resources for the Treatment of Depression. | Exercise and Depression Antidepressant Resources for the Treatment of Depression. | Exercise and Depression
ANTIDEPRESSANT ARTICLES
ABOUT ANTIDEPRESSANTS
ANTIDEPRESSANT DIRECTORY
COMMUNITY FORUM
DEPRESSION SYMPTOMS
DEPRESSION TREATMENT
DEPRESSION RESOURCE GUIDE
What is an Antidepressant
Effects of Antidepressants
Types of Antidepressants
Select an Antidepressant
VIEW ALL ARTICLES
Exercise and Depression - How it Will Help, What to Do
The thought of embarking on a new task or journey in one's life, especially one that requires you to use your brain or body in new ways, can seem very daunting and even stressful. This common misconception is one of the main reasons that people often stray away from using exercise as a tool to help stay positive and happy, causing them to sometimes turn to unhealthy quick fixes such as alcohol or over-eating. However, the truth is that exercise is one of the number one things you can do to improve the overall quality of your life, both physically and emotionally. When most people hear the word "antidepressant," they probably don't think of running through the park or dancing around their room, but rather picture a little white pill that numbs the pain. This is not to say that the use of prescribed antidepressants should be ruled out or chastised, but it is just to raise some awareness about the wonders that a few hours of simple exercise a week can work. First of all, when you exert energy through exercise, your body is releasing endorphins. Endorphins are like little receptors that are created by different parts of the human body, including the brain and spinal cord, which trigger positive and even euphoric feelings and diminish our perceptions of pain. They are like the human body's drug that creates a natural high that is one hundred percent beneficial to your body and mind. The more endorphins your body releases, the happier you will feel. Aside from the release of endorphins, the health benefits of exercise are infinite. It lowers blood pressure, increases circulation, improves sleep cycles, reduces body fat, improves strength and muscle tone, increases energy levels, strengthens your heart, and the list goes on. Exercise also makes you look slimmer, fitter, and healthier, which in turn makes you feel better and boosts confidence levels exponentially.
Depression hurts in a lot of ways and is caused by many different agents, depending on the person. One of the major side effects of depression is being so tired you cannot bring yourself to get out of bed, in which case exercising would be the last thing on your mind. Because depression can completely drain you of your energy and make you feel tired, lethargic, and worthless, the most important step to helping cure your depression through exercise is the first step. A good way to overcome this initial move into a new routine is to start simple. Set your goals low at first so that you know you can achieve them. Don't start by telling yourself you're going to join a gym and run five miles on the treadmill or swim fifty laps in the pool. Rather, treat your dog to a thirty minute walk around the park. Without even realizing it, you are treating yourself as well. Walking at a normal pace thirty minutes a day can increase your mood for 12 hours, thus giving you more motivation to do things that would seem harder had you not done any exercise at all. Walking outside as opposed to on a treadmill is especially beneficial since the sun contains high levels of vitamin D, which strengthens your muscles, boosts immune function and improves the body’s natural cancer-resistors. Just a few minutes a day outside can help your body produce a solid amount of vitamin D, thus proving that outdoor exercise is beneficial from all angles. Don't have a dog? Put on your favorite CD at full volume and dance around your room. Not only does the music lift your spirits, but without even realizing it, you are getting a full-body workout by jumping, twisting, and moving your arms and legs around to the beat. If your cranky neighbor downstairs doesn't want to be bothered by the sound of your dancing feet, retreat to the softest carpet in your house or purchase a yoga mat and do 15-30 minutes of simple yoga poses. These are easily accessible through different internet sites and videos, are easy to learn, and carry major health benefits.
Yoga is one of the best tools you can use to help you relax, focus, and free your mind of worry and stress, even if only for 15 minutes. You will find, however, that 15 stress-free minutes will help you deal with the rest of the day in much more productive ways. Over time, you will be able to increase your goals and find an exercise routine that you love, depending on what your particular interests are.
A study done by Harvard Health Publications in 2005, found that the effects of exercise last much longer than the effects of antidepressants. The researchers took three groups of people: one took a prescribed antidepressant, the other participated in aerobic exercise program, and the third group did both. Six months later, the results showed that the people who were exercising regularly, regardless of whether or not they were taking the prescribed antidepressants, were the ones who were less likely to show symptoms of depression. Participating in an exercise program or even having at least one workout buddy is a terrific motivation to get out there and be physical. Social interaction is a very important natural antidepressant. Feeding off of the energy of another person or a group of people who have the same goals can boost your mood immensely, and make you want to work longer and harder.
We all know that depression hurts. It hurts those who are suffering from it, and it hurts those close to the sufferers. While it may be in our human nature to want the "quick-fix" for a problem, remember that exercise is a wonderful alternative or addition to a prescribed antidepressant. While there is no proof that one type of exercise is a better cure than another, always remember to get your legs moving and your heart rate going, and you will be well on your way on the road to overcoming your depression.
ARTICLES:
What is an Antidepressant?
What are the Effects of Antidepressants?
What are the types of antidepressant medications?
What are the types of antidepressant vitamins?
How is depression treated?
What are the symptoms of depression?
How do antidepressants work?
How does diet effect depression?
How does exercise effect depression?
Test and Diagnosis for Depression.
Causes of Depression.
What is Depression?
Considerations in Selecting an Antidepressant.
What are the types of depression?
Community
Join and Search the online discussion board as we build community interaction.
Antidepressant Medications
Learn about Antidepressant medications, treatment names, affects, active ingredients and see user reviews on other peoples experience with these drugs.
CLICK HERE LEARN MORE.
Antidepressant Vitamins
Learn about Antidepressant vitamins and supplements, treatment names and see user reviews on the preformance of these vitamins & supplements.
CLICK HERE LEARN MORE.
Antidepressant Resources
ARTICLES
DIRECTORY
EXERCISE
DIET
Antidepressant.com (c) 2009 | Antidepressant Articles | About Antidepressants | Antidepressant Directory | Depression Symptoms | Depression Treatment
How do Antidepressants Work | What is an Antidepressant | Types of Antidepressants | Depression Resource Guide | Site Map
What are the Effects of Antidepressants | Antidepressant Medications | Antidepressant Vitamins | Privacy Policy | Site Terms & Conditions