admin – Page 2 – Better Hair with Hair Transplant and Hair Rejuvenation
Better Hair with Hair Transplant and Hair Rejuvenation
menu
Cart
Checkout
contact
Guest Post
My Account
Shop
Author: admin
Treatment for Hair Loss Using Rogaine Foam Minoxidil
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
People who are experiencing hair loss face a lot of options when it comes to hair treatment and medicines. But among the most popular treatment for hair loss is Rogaine Foam-Minoxidil. This hair loss treatment is FDA approved and is widely used by both men and women today. So, how does this product actually work?
What is Rogaine Foam?
Just before you finally purchase the product; it helps if you know more about the drug that you intend to use. Basically, Rogaine, Rogaine Foam and Minoxidil are just the same. The reason is that Minoxidil is the main ingredient in Rogaine. Before, the liquid version of Rogaine was offered in the market. Unfortunately, the liquid version contained Propylene Glycol which can cause irritation along with other negative effects for those who used the product.
To address the problem, the manufacturer of the product revolutionized the liquid version by coming up with a new type of product known as the Rogaine Foam in 2007. The product claims that customers no longer have to worry about flaking, hair irritation and other adverse effects.
How Does Rogaine Foam Work?
Minoxidil was originally created to treat high blood pressure. But along with the further development of the drug, researchers noted that those people who underwent clinical trials experienced significant hair growth. Minoxidil opens Potassium Channels and in turn, this stimulates hair growth.
Three Power Treatments
In the market, there are three different treatments that are considered to be highly effective. Known as The Big Three, these powerful hair loss treatments are Nizoral Shampoo, Rogaine and Propecia. To stop the cause of hair loss, you can use Propecia. Rogaine is more of a hair growth stimulant drug while the Nizoral shampoo handles the immune response of the scalp. These three alone works in so many ways for people who are suffering from hair loss.
But using Rogaine alone is already enough. There is no need for you to use all of these three. It depends on your needs. For instance, if you want to keep the density of your hair then you can use Propecia and Nizoral. But if you think you need to increase the density then you can definitely use all of the three products.
What to Expect with Rogaine Foam?
Using any hair loss product will not yield results overnight. You have to undergo certain phases before you can finally see the significant results.
Whenever you use any hair loss treatment, you have to undergo the period of shedding. For example, if you use Rogaine, you will notice that your hair will go through a phase where it gets thinner. But don’t you worry because after the shedding phase, it will start to get thicker. Just do not stop the treatment right away.
The shedding of your hair only goes to show that the medicine is working. The reason behind this is that the hair follicle shuts down and eventually, produces new hair. For the first three months, you can expect thinning hair. This is quite normal. Be patient and after the shedding phase, you can start to notice the successful results. Based on studies, clients can see the significant hair growth after 6 months of continuous use. Just keep on using the product so that you can see it for yourself.
If you are not so sure as to which specific hair loss treatment is the most suitable for your hair and scalp condition, it is strongly recommended that you consult with a hair expert. At least, you do not have to waste time and money trying different products that would not yield the best results.
Posted in minoxidilTagged hair loss, ragaine form for hair loss, rogaine to regrow your hair
Minoxidil Topical for Hair Loss Treatment
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
Recent studies would show that the number of people experiencing hair loss is continuously increasing. Both men and women across varying age groups are not spared with this type of hair problem. If you happen to be one of them, it is strongly recommended that you start to find ways to prevent hair loss and look for an effective hair loss treatment.
Use Minoxidil
In the market, you can find several options to choose from. But among the different hair loss solutions made available, Minoxidil is one of the most popular choices. The very reason as to why this product is highly recommended is that it stimulates hair growth. It also slows balding. For people who are 40 years old and below can definitely use Minoxidil without having to worry about any adverse effects on hairlines. Although the product does not entirely cure baldness, at least it can alleviate further hair loss which can result to baldness.
Precautions to Keep in Mind
Before you finally use Minoxidil, it helps if you consult a reputable hair expert. Keep in mind that this is still a drug. If you are allergic to Minoxidil, you should tell your doctor or even to the pharmacist right away. Apart from allergic history, pharmacists would also require you to tell the medications that you currently take.
How to Use Minoxidil
Minoxidil is very easy to use. It is a liquid version that can be directly applied to your hair. Use this twice a day and you can notice significant results.
The very first thing that you have to do after buying the drug is to follow all of the directions or other prescriptions written on the label. If ever there is something that you do not understand, do not hesitate to consult your doctor or a pharmacist. Unless your doctor prescribed you to use it more or less than what is specified, stick with the original instructions.
Applying more than what is specified will not yield better results. In fact, this may even lead to adverse side effects.
For you to see the effects, you have to use Minoxidil for about 4 months. The box comes with three special applications that you can use which include the following: a metered-spray applicator for large scalp areas, an extender spray applicator (used with the metered-spray applicator) for small areas or under the hair, and a rub-on applicator. Just follow the direction as to how you can use these applicators.
To start off, you can now apply Minoxidil. Make sure that you only apply it to dry hair and to your scalp. This product should not be applied to other areas. When applying the liquid, avoid eye contact. If ever it comes in contact with your sensitive skin or with your eyes, wash them with cool water right away. If you have an irritated scalp or sunburned scalp, do not apply Minoxidil.
Side Effects of Minoxidil
Just like other medicines, there are side effects. But unlike other hair loss solutions made available in the market, you do not have to think of negative side effects that may endanger your health. Some of the common side effects of using Minoxidil include scaling, flaking, irritation, dryness, burning and scalp itching.
If you see any of these, tell your doctor. But if ever you notice any of these symptoms (weight gain, swelling of the face and other parts of the body, difficulty in breathing, chest pain and rapid heartbeat), you should consult your doctor right away. This is to ensure that you avoid experiencing any negative side effects in using the product.
Posted in minoxidilTagged minoxidil for better hair, minoxidil for hair loss, prevent hair loss with minoxidil
Nizoral Shampoo for Hair Loss Prevention
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
A lot of people suffer from hair loss. When you are starting to experience losing too many hair strands, you have to find an effective solution to address hair loss. In the market, there are several over the counter products claiming that they provide solutions to hair loss.
Among these products is Nizoral Shampoo. Compare to other brands, this is the only shampoo which is specifically created and developed to prevent hair loss. For men and women who are suffering from hair loss, this shampoo is a must have. Nizoral shampoo should be part of everyone’s daily hair prevention.
The product is marketed as an antifungal shampoo. It contains androgen blocking properties which make it a highly effective product for hair loss. Androgen blockers inhibit any hair thinning processes. When you are experiencing hair loss and you fail to find an effective solution, you may experience the following: pain in the scalp, itching, irritation, etc.
Hair itching is one of the main symptoms of thinning hair for both men and women. Once you experience tingling, hair loss will move faster especially if you are not using the right treatment.
Even if there is no itching, hormonal processes still take place. This is basically one of the reasons why you should use the Nizoral shampoo as part of your daily hair regimen.
It cures that fundamental part of treating hair loss- hair inflammation. Every person suffering from hair loss will experience inflammation. Nizoral shampoo soothes and calms the scalp. No other hair loss treatment will work well without using this shampoo.
How Does Nizoral Shampoo Work?
Nizoral shampoo works in several ways. Apart from being an antifungal shampoo, it also works well in cleansing your scalp. To prevent hair loss, the shampoo has blocks androgen receptors.
There is also another product that works the same as this shampoo, the Topical Spironolactone for Men and Women. But Nizoral is convenient as consumers can use it as a shampoo.
Who Can Use Nizoral Shampoo?
Unlike other hair loss solutions, Nizoral Shampoo is for everyone. Whether you are in search of a product that you can use along with Propecia, Revivogen or Topical Spironolactone, you can use this product. The shampoo also works well if you are using hair stimulant products like Rogaine Foam or Tricomin.
How to Use Nizoral Shampoo
To get optimal results, you should use Nizoral Shampoo every 3 days. You can easily apply the shampoo when you go to shower and rinse out. In using the product, you get to choose between the 1% solution or the 2% solution form.
Many people prefer to use the Nizoral 1% solution form. The 2% solution form is quite strong and it is not good for your liver.
Are There Side Effects?
Compare to other hair loss solutions, you do not have to worry about adverse side effects. This shampoo can be considered as an additional or a complementary hair loss solution. Since you will not be taking any drug, there is no need to worry about negative side effects. But if you are not that sure as to whether this is the best option, you can always consult your doctor and seek for a professional advice.
Where to Purchase Nizoral Shampoo
Nizoral Shampoo is available all over the country. You can easily purchase the product in pharmacies and other drugstores nationwide. In fact, you can even purchase the shampoo online. You can just browse any online selling site offering this kind of shampoo. After that, you can easily place your order online and wait for the product to be delivered straight to your house.
Posted in shampooTagged antifungal shampoo for hair growth, nizoral shampoo for hair loss, shampoo for hair loss
Prevent Hair Loss Using Biotin and Other Nutrients
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
There are different factors that can result to hair loss. Age is just one factor. In fact, even your genes would determine if you are at risk of losing hair. Based on recent studies, the number of men and women suffering from hair loss is increasing.
Once you notice the early symptoms of hair loss, you should immediately find remedies or cures to it. This is to avoid further aggravating the problem. Failure on your part to find an effective treatment can result to severe hair loss or worse, baldness. While you can still manage the problem, it is essential that you take the necessary actions.
Have a Healthy Lifestyle
Apart from the above mentioned factors, your lifestyle is also a contributing factor. When you are physically inactive and you eat the wrong food, you are prone to stress. When you are stressed out, you are prone to hair loss. Poor diet also contributes to hair loss as your hair is prone to breakage due to lacking hair nutrients.
This is basically one of the reasons why you should also consider the use of natural methods to address hair loss. Although there are various hair loss solutions being offered in the market, it does not hurt if you combine having a healthy lifestyle and the use of these products to prevent further hair loss.
If you think you are prone to hair loss, you should eat the right food that would give nutrients to your hair. Just like the other parts of your body, your hair also needs the necessary vitamins and minerals to prevent hair loss.
The Use of Biotin
People who are suffering from hair loss need to boost their vitamin B intake. Biotin or Vitamin B7 also known as Vitamin H is one of the vitamins that you need.
It works by synthesizing fat which allows the functioning of the enzyme acetyl Co-A carboxylase. This enzyme builds fat molecules and protects the different parts of the body like the nervous system.
Biotin is also responsible for hair regrowth. In fact, there are tests showing that Biotin can also stop premature graying of hair.
When you are stressed out, you notice that you lose more hair strands than the usual. This is because stress is also a contributing factor to hair loss. As such, it helps if you can Biotin supplements to your daily diet. By adding Biotin to your diet, you get to protect your hair follicles and you get to lessen your stress which results to hair loss.
Dosage of Biotin
You can take 60 mg of Biotin in a day. This can be sustained for long periods. There is no need to worry about any adverse effects since there are no reports pertaining to Biotin toxicity. In fact, there are studies that would back up the claim that Biotin supplementation helps in hair restoration and reversal of premature hair graying.
But if you are not sure when it comes to the dosage, it is strongly recommended that you consult your doctor. At least, your doctor can help you in determine the right or the most suitable dosage to address your hair loss concern.
Other Nutrients Needed
Apart from Biotin, there are also other nutrients that are needed for hair growth. One of them is Silica. You can add Silica to your diet by eating grains. For instance, you can have rice and oats. In addition, protein is also essential to spur hair growth. By eating food rich in protein like for instance meat and fish, you can have a healthier hair. Iron should also be included in your diet as anemia can cause hair fall.
Posted in biotinTagged biotin for hair growth, biotin to prevent hair loss, vitamin b7 to grow hair, vitamin for hair growth
Avodart (Dutasteride) for Hair Loss
Posted on December 26, 2013 December 26, 2013 by admin
Hair loss is a serious problem faced by many women and men today. With various factors attributed to hair loss, no one is spared from experiencing this problem. Your lifestyle, age and even your genes can contribute to the problem. But thanks to recent developments in the medical field, there are now several ways for you to prevent further hair loss. In fact, you also have the option to treat hair loss or even to cure pattern baldness.
In the market, there are different treatments and various kinds of products being offered. From hair loss shampoos to hair loss medicines, you can simply choose which hair loss solution will work out for you.
Avodart (Dustasteride)
Among the different hair loss solutions available is the Avodart also known as Dutasteride. This is a hair loss treatment that was approved by the FDA way back in 2002.
Originally created to treat prostate enlargement, Avodart is now used to cure male pattern baldness.
This particular product basically works the same as Finasteride, another well-know hair loss brand. Dutasteride works by inhibiting the version of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone.
Finasteride only inhibits the Type 2 form of the enzyme while Dutasteride inhibits both. This is one of the reasons why this drug is more effective. But if used the wrong way, it can also lead to highly adverse reactions.
Effects of Dutasteride on Hair Growth
Using Dutasteride (0.5mg) in a day is proven to decrease serum DHT by 91% and scalp DHT by 54$. On the other hand, using Finasteride (5mg) in a day is said to decrease serum DHT by 71% and scalp DHT by 38%.
In comparing the results, it is safe to say that Dutasteride is indeed more effective when it comes treating androgenetic alopecia also known as pattern baldness compare to Finasteride. Based on a study by Olsen, et al in the Journal American Academy of Dermatology way back in 2006, the benefits of using Dutasteride vis-à-vis Finasteride were shown.
Side Effects of Avodart
For those who intend to use Dutasteride, there may be side effects when you use the product. In a clinical studies which involved about 4,325 men aged 50 and above, the side effects recorded during the first 6 months include the following:
impotence (4.7 percent vs. 1.7 percent for placebo), decreased libido (3 percent vs. 1.4 percent), breast tenderness and breast enlargement (gynecomastia; 0.5 percent vs. 0.2 percent) and ejaculation disorders (1.4 percent vs. 0.5 percent).
Precautions
Since there are side effects that you may encounter, it helps if you take precautions when using Dutasteride. For pregnant women, they have to be more careful in using Dutasteride as this may be a threat to the fetus. For men who are using Dutasteride, they should not donate blood until they are able to have the final dose. Blood transfusion from a man who is using the drug may inflict harm in particular to pregnant women.
If you are allergic to Dutasteride or other ingredients and components to it, you should not take the drug as this may result to adverse effects. For men who have liver disease, it is important that they consult their doctor first before they finally take Dutasteride.
Other Hair Loss Solutions
Dutasteride can also be an effective cure for hair loss just like Finasteride. But apart from these drugs, there are other ways for you to treat hair loss. You can start by changing your lifestyle. Change your diet. Eat foods rich in vitamin B7, Iron and protein. Be physically active to lessen stress. When you are healthy, you can avoid stress which is one of the main causes of hair loss.
Posted in avodartTagged avodart for hair loss, dustasteride for hair loss
Complete Guide to Finasteride (Propecia) hair loss treatment for men
Posted on December 10, 2013 December 26, 2013 by admin
Thinning hair can be a matter of disappointment particularly if one suffers from extreme baldness. For women and men, this is something that they would never ever want to happen. Thanks to technology, there are now various products being offered in the market which are created to treat hair loss. Among the different hair loss solutions, Propecia is considered to be one of the most popular prescription option.
What is Propecia (Finpecia)?
Propecia, an offshoot of Proscar, is a widely used hair loss medication since 1992. It is a 1 mg tablet which contains Finasteride, an ingredient known to decrease the male hormone dihydrotestosterone (DHT) levels which affect hair follicles and hair growth primarily in the front, top, and crown of the scalp region.
Hair loss is linked to DHT which in short contributes to hair loss by shortening the growth, or anagen phase of the hair cycle, contributing to a minimization in the hair follicles. The effected hair area continues to be reduced until the hair follicles completely dwindles away. The primary agent behind DHT is an enzyme referred to as 5-alpha reductase on testosterone.
Finasteride is a lipophilic, which means it is a chemical compound that can easily dissolve through the blood stream via the pores in the skin. Finasteride (Protecia is the brand name) which is marketed by Merck corporation was designed to reversing the process of enzyme 5-alpha reductase Type II that transforms testosterone to (DHT) in the hair follicle. According to the FDA, it is an inhibitor of teroid Type II reductase.
During the FDA trials there were able 1,500 men who experienced surprising results in using Finasteride. About 83% of them experienced effective results when it comes to completely stopping hair loss and in increasing hair growth in both the vertex and anterior of the head. 1mg version known as Propecia was launched in 1998. Today, this drug is considered to be one of the most used treatments when it comes to hair loss problems.
About Generic Finasteride/Finpecia
Generic Finasteride also known as Finpecia basically contains the same set of ingredients found in Propecia. Finpecia contains 1 mg tablet of Finasteride. Just before you finally purchase this product, it is strongly recommended that you learn more about this drug. You can actually purchase it online. But if you are unsure, it helps if you consult your doctor. If you have allergies, you should consult your doctor.
Who Can Use Propecia?
Generic Finasteride is recommended for men who are in search of an effective hair loss treatment. Those who are currently experiencing thinning hairline can definitely use Propecia. The drug is clinically-approven and FDA approved hair loss solution. With this product, you can prevent further hair loss. Coupled with hair growth stimulant products like Rogaine Foam, you can witness optimal results.
Dr. Reddy
In January of 2013, Dr. Reddy become the first genertic drug maker to produce a version of the anti-hair loss drug, which has annual sales in the United States of over $136 million. Patients who purchase drugs from Costco, Walmart, Walgreen and other pharmacies may get the Dr. Reddy version when filling their next prescription.
Some customers have experience no difference when switching from Propecia to Dr. Reddy’s, while others complain about side effects like drop in libido and shedding of hair. The price of the generic version is about $30.00 lower than Merck’s.
Side Effects
For people who want to try what Propecia can offer, they want to know if there are side effects. Yes, you may experience some side effects when you use the drug. But the good thing is that you can try this treatment for one month and see how you can tolerate it. In using the drug, some experience common side effects just like other hair loss solutions. But if ever you experience symptoms that are alarming, you should consult your physician. Better yet, before you finally use Propecia, consult your doctor.
There are rear cases when the side effects continue when the medication has been stopped. During the FDA trials some of the men experience a minor reduction is prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. Since African Americans have a higher rate of prostate cancer, it is important that African American men consult their doctor before use.
Data collected from 2004 – 2012 by drugscite.org (website that collects data from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS)) on the effects of Finasteride
A small percentage of men (less than 2%) will experience some sexual side effects such as reduction in desire for sexual intimacy, difficulty in obtaining an erection and reduction in semen count. However, Merck says that these side effects are quickly reverse with cessation. Contrary to Merck’s claim, some users of the product have complained about side effects being permanent.
Caution:
Patients with liver abnormalities should seek advice from the physician before attempted to use Propecia as finasteride is metabolized in the liver.
Do not donate blood while you are on this prescription as it can be harmful to the fetus of pregnant women.
First FDA study found minimal effects of the use of Propecia
Essential Tips in Using Propecia
Propecia is not for men with bald head, but for those experiencing the minimization of their hair follicles or receding hairline. Propecia, reverses the minimization process and allows the hair follicles to experience health growth. To ensure effective results, you have to use 1mg of Propecia everyday.
Skipping or using Propecia other than the given directions will not yield the results you want. It is important that you follow everything that is written on the instruction and label description to avoid experiencing any problem. Remember that hormones are delicate and sensitive. You have to be very careful.
Once you are already using Propecia, it is normal for you to experience what they call the shedding phase. This is a period wherein you experience thinning hair. There is nothing to worry about since this is normal. After the shedding phase, you will start to notice that your hair is getting thicker.
Just be patient when using the drug. There is no hair loss solution that can give you instant results. For those who are using Propecia, you may have to wait around 4 to 12 months to see the significant changes in your hair. Continue using the product to see the amazing benefits.
Use in combination
Research has indicated that the effects of Propecia increases when used with hair growth shampoo, laser hair therapy or rogaine foam (minoxidil). It is occasionally recommended that the right combination should be 0.1% finasteride and 3% minoxidil.
Age and Sex
No Propecia trials was ever conducted with young men below the age of 18.
A trial involving 137 postmenopausal women with androgenetic alopecia resulted in no material effect. Therefore, women should not use this product. In addition, it can pose a risk to pregnant women with male fetus.
The effects of the product on men dwindles as they pass the age of 70. No significant difference was observe in respect to the use of the product by men of varying race. Therefore, Caucasian, African Americans, Hispanics, Asians and others can use this product.
How to take it:
Take one tablet by mouth each day.
You may take Propecia with or without food, it will not irritate your stomach or cause dizziness
Propecia will not work faster or better if you take it more than once a day
Anyone allergic to any of the ingredients should consult their doctor before use
Generic Version
The generic version may come in a 5mg dose. Since the daily recommendation is only 1mg it would be prudent to cut the pill. Visit your local pharmacy and purchase a pill cutter ( or get the Apex Pill Splitter from Amazon) for less than $6.00. You will need to cut your generic version in 4 equal pieces to achieve the equivalent of 1mg of Propecia.
First Few Months
Some patients may experience shedding of hair during the first 6 months of treatment. This is normal and is an indication that the medication is effective. Please continue to use the prescription unless advised otherwise by your doctor. It usually takes about 12 months to see the full effect of the medication.
Buy only in the United States
There are a lot of counterfeit medication online. Please purchase your medication through United States manufacturing entity or trusted websites like Walgreens, CVS, etc. It is important to buy from sources within FDA jurisdiction.
Who uses Propecia
According to CVS 43% of the product is used by men age 20 -40, 44% by men 40-60, 11% by men over 60 and less than 1% by men under the age of 20. Purchase was practically split between Propecia and the generic version.
Propecia use by age: Courtesy CVS
Video from Dr. Samuel Lam, Dallas, Texas Hair Transplant Doctor, on the use of Rogain and Propecia
What those experiencing baldness are saying
Dr. Bernstein Famous NYC Hair Transplant Doctor before and after photo example of 13 months of finasteride treatment
There are many men on Propecia, with just over half of them are very happy with the results. Some patients have experienced amazing hair growth within 12 months while others has suffered from side effects bordering on concern. Those suffering from hair loss have to find a method or prescription that works for them. While Procerin may not work for you, Propecia could give amazing results. Still, other achieve results with laser therapy.
Posted in propeciaTagged finasteride, hair loss treatment for men, propecia
Propecia and Rogaine to treat hair loss in men
Posted on December 9, 2013 December 10, 2013 by admin
In the United States and even in other countries, there are a lot of people who are suffering from hair loss. The trend is continuously increasing every year. Majority of them have androgenetic alopecia or also known as pattern baldness. But with the recent developments in technology, patients now get the chance to have surgical hair restoration. For hair loss, this is the most popular treatment being offered.
How to Prevent Baldness
Baldness is a result of a wide variety of factors. Age is one of them. When men reach the age of 30, half of them start to lose hair. Unlike in their teenage years, their hairline starts to diminish. In addition to your age, your genes will also determine if you are at risk of becoming bald. According to the chief dermatologist at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System located in Lake Success, New York, genes can be a contributing factor but this is not the only reason why many people go bald.
The Truth About Hair Loss Treatments
With the increasing number of people who are experiencing hair loss, for sure you have come across various advertisements in particular magazine and television advertisements claiming that they offer effective and guaranteed hair loss solution. But the problem with these offers is that they do not look at the root cause of the problem.
These so-called miracle treatments do not work for prevention and hair loss treatment. Make sure that before you spend any money, the treatment or the product you intend to buy is approved by the FDA and endorsed by the American Hair Loss Association. With so many hair loss products being marketed today, you would not want to end up wasting money on pricey products that would only disappoint you. While the problem is still manageable, you should start working on preventing from further hair loss.
Effective Treatments
There are two highly recommended treatments that are clinically proven to treat and prevent hair loss. The first treatment is Finasteride. This is the generic name for the brand name for Proscar and Propecia. The said product was created by the company Merck. Originally, Finasteride was developed to cure enlarged prostate glands.
While the products underwent clinical trials to treat prostate problems, there was a surprising side effect. Men who used the product experienced hair growth. With the approval of FDA, Merck finally decided to develop Finasteride as a pill to cure male pattern baldness. FDA approved 1mg dose of Finasteride for alopecia treatment in December 1997. That time Minoxidil was already available in the market. But Propecia is the very first drug aimed at helping cure male pattern baldness.
Finasteride decreases scalp and serum DHT levels in men with male pattern baldness or androgenetic alopecia. Finasteride interrupts the main factor in the development of androgenetic alopecia in men who are genetically predisposed
How Does it Work?
Finasteride works by inhibiting the 5-alpha-reductase. This is an enzyme that converts testosterone into DHT or androgen dihydrotestosterone. DHT is responsible for shrinking the hair follicle which in turn affects hair growth. With 1 mg dose of Finasteride, you can lower the levels of DHT in your scalp by 60%. Based on studies, 865 of men who tried the drug recorded effective prevention of hair loss.
The Use of Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Another popular treatment is through the use of Minoxidil. This is also a drug approved by the FDA to treat male pattern baldness. The drug was originally developed to treat people who have high blood pressure. Eventually, clinical trials and series of tests recorded that those who are using the drug experienced hair growth. You can easily apply Minoxidil directly on your head.
These are the two treatments highly recommended by hair experts and by other people who have already tried them. If you want to find the best hair loss solutions, you should try Minoxidil or Finasteride. But just in case you are not sure, it helps if you can consult a medical professional.
How men use Rogaine
Some men use rogaine singularly while others find it more effective to use the product with a combinations pills such as NuHair Regrowth Tablets or shampoo for dandruff since rogaine leaves over a white flaky elements that resembles dandruff. After a few weeks of using rogaine most men say they begin to see noticeable results with new hair beginning to grow in bald spots. Withing a few months of constant use some men report that hair growth was within 80% to 90%. Like many medical products on the market today, rogaine is not for everyone. If you are suffering from hair loss, you may have to experiment with a number of products before finding the one that is most effective for you.
Posted in Alopecia, hair products, menTagged propecia, rogaine, treating hair loss in men
Quick and effective solution for hair loss in women
Posted on November 19, 2013 November 19, 2013 by admin
Hair loss could be quite depressing for any woman, and there is no denying the fact. A long and strong hair is not only desired by many, but also makes the individual to appear beautiful. Most women are left dumbfounded, when they find that they have been losing hair at a fast pace.
Finding solutions becomes all the more troublesome, since there are plenty of products and solutions for hair loss in women available in the market and with every manufacturer claiming his products or solutions to be the best. The options currently offered to such individuals range from surgery, hair loss shampoos to cosmetic surgeries. As a matter of fact, their growing number should be enough reason for the individual to be confused.
Availing the appropriate solution
The appropriate solution depends on the outcome that is desired by the individual. Most women do not prefer to wait for a long time for their hair to grow back. Waiting for months and years, is really tiresome and depressing. Purchasing a wig, though, a simple method is never an effective solution for permanent natural hair growth. Most of them are petrified at the very thought of wearing a wig and it also sounds very much embarrassing, if caught by someone.
Identifying reasons for hair loss in women
It has been noticed that several women tend to suffer from androgenic alopecia, especially during the course of or after menopause. The loss of hair is characterized by a normal diffuse hair thinning that is evident at the top.
Medical experts are of the opinion that women can also experience hair loss during pregnancy since their hormones fluctuate a lot, due to hormonal imbalances. Such women, however, are recommended not to utilize the hair loss solutions, since this condition would heal all by itself.
There are also several products that do cause side effects on the individual and lead to scalp swelling, redness in the site, severe scaling or itching. Therefore, it is very important for such women to be careful while selecting a particular hair loss treatment.
They should go through the reviews that are posted on several sites by users, go through their ratings; find out more about the product, the ingredients used in it and when 100% sure that it is safe, only then, should consider it for use.
Natural remedies for stopping hair loss
There are various natural remedies available easily, which when applied can bring the best results quickly and effectively. These ingredients are completely organic and found in nature. There are several manufacturers, who have made their best efforts to create such products that are not only useful to regain back hair, but also safe and without any side effects. Also, these products are clinically tested and do help in countering hair loss.
There are also present several herbal shampoos that assure hair growth. At the same time, it is necessary for the individual to make sure that they consume the right food, and at the right time. This would help the hair follicles to get the appropriate amount of strength and growth.
Author’s Bio
The author is presently associated with www.reducinghairloss.com and has been writing articles stopping hair loss for women. His articles have been of great help to such individuals, who have been suffering from hair loss.
Posted in womenTagged solution for hair loss in women, women alopecia, women hair loss
What Every Bald Person Should Know About Hair Transplant
Posted on November 5, 2013 by admin
Hair loss is a common problem all over the world. Some may experience minor hair loss while others may experience complete hair loss.
For people suffering from complete baldness, the ultimate solution is to have a hair transplant procedure.
Considering the complexity of the procedure along with its cost, you should at least have ample knowledge as to how it works and know the benefits you can get if ever you decide to undergo the procedure.
What is a Hair Transplant Procedure?
Those who are considering hair transplant know that once they decide to have a hair transplant they will undergo a surgery operation. All throughout the duration of the procedure, patients are under local anesthesia. Few people know much about this procedure.
Hair transplant was first used way back in the 1950s. Doctors remove hair from a specific spot and use it to fill area with no hair. Prior to the actual removal and filling in, the surgeon has to make sure that scalp is clean.
The doctor then injects an anesthesia. Finding the specific area of the scalp, the surgeon removes a strip of scalp which may comprise of about 500 to 2000 grafts containing few hairs.
These will then be used to fill in certain areas that are bald. The whole operation may lasts about 4 to 8 hours depending on the condition of the patient. After the main surgery operation, patients might be required to have additional sessions if they opt to have thicker hair.
What to Expect
After the hair transplant procedure, you can easily notice major changes. For instance, your scalp appears to be delicate and tender. Since the procedure involves surgery operations, you might also experience pain after your hair transplant.
Your doctor can recommend some medications to relieve pain and some anti-inflammatory drugs. For 1 to days, you also need to have a surgical dressing. The nice thing about undergoing a hair transplant is that you can easily go back to your usual work and routine after five days.
In a few months, you can already start seeing the growth of new hair. During this phase, your doctor may prescribe the use of Rogaine to further stimulate hair growth succeeding the hair transplant procedure.
The Costs of the Treatment
Among other hair loss treatment options, hair transplant offers a permanent solution. This is far by the most expensive option.
Depending on the extent of baldness, the cost may range from $4,000 to $15,000.Undergoing this procedure will cost you a lot but considering the results that you will be able to get, you can consider this as an investment
Risks Associated with Hair Transplant
Along with other surgery operations, there are risks involved. This is primarily one of the reasons why you should only get the best doctor who can perform the procedure.
Bleeding and infection may occur during or even after the surgery if the procedure is not done properly. Some patients may have scar or they may experience problems with new hair growth.
Posted in hair transplantTagged hair restoration, hair transplant procedure, restoring hair from baldness
What is a Hair Transplant?
Posted on November 5, 2013 November 5, 2013 by admin
As we age, we experience different kinds of hair related problems. We notice that our hair starts to lack vitality and luster. Worse, some may even experience hair loss.
What happens if this situation gets worse and you end up being bald? This is a situation no person would ever want to experience.
No wonder there are several people who invest in various hair care products just to avoid hair loss problems. Unfortunately, no matter how hard we try to avoid this condition, there are factors that will lead to hair loss.
For instance, we cannot control hereditary factors especially if it is in your family genes to experience baldness.
But the good news is that there are now ways to help you deal with the problem. Thanks to scientific discoveries, there are procedures that can help you in addressing hair loss problems. Among these is hair transplantation.
Know More About Hair Transplantation
Hair transplantation is a kind of procedure used by many patients who want to achieve a more natural looking and permanent hair. The ideal candidate for this procedure would include those who have healthy hair. Male and female suffering from pattern baldness can undergo this procedure.
The operation is done by taking tiny grafts in specific areas on the scalp and then the surgeon transfers these few hairs to areas with no hair growth. This is done until such a time that your hair starts to grow.
What Happens After the Procedure?
After the surgery operation, you may feel some pain on your scalp. In this case, the doctor may prescribe the use of certain drugs to alleviate the pain. Anti-inflammatory drugs are also used since there is a risk of infection.
After five to ten days, you can go back to your work and do your other routines. Some patients experience hair fall after the surgery. This is quite normal. Just wait for a few months to witness significant results.
Find a Certified Doctor
If you have finally decided to undergo this procedure, you need to find a reliable doctor who is licensed to perform this kind of operation. Remember that hair transplant requires expertise and the process is highly complex.
One wrong move and you may end up at risk. Apart from your safety, you also need to consider the money that you will be spending. Undergoing a hair transplant is no joke.
The procedure may cost you around $2000 or more depending on the technique used. In spending this huge amount, you definitely have every right to expect long term and guaranteed results.
Schedule an Initial Appointment
Once you have enough information and you think you have found the best doctor, you can schedule for an initial appointment. This allows you to get to know more about the surgeon who will handle the procedure.
Take time and take the chance to ask important questions regarding hair transplant. You may also request for a cost estimate so you know how much you will have to pay. Lastly, take a look at the photos of his previous clients.
Posted in hair transplantTagged hair transplant procedure, learn about hair transplant, what is hair transplant
Posts navigation
Older posts
Newer posts
Recent Posts
The Do’s & Don’ts of Choosing a Hair Transplant Clinic. December 31, 2018
Laser Technique – The Technological Innovation for Hair Transplantation October 24, 2016
Teenage Hairloss Problems and Remedies October 17, 2016
7 Main reasons that cause hair loss August 13, 2015
Why body needs Zinc for hair growth June 23, 2015
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2018
October 2016
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
March 2015
November 2014
October 2014
December 2013
November 2013
Categories
Alopecia
avodart
biotin
hair care
hair products
hair restoration
hair transplant
laser hair comb
laser treatment
men
minoxidil
propecia
shampoo
women
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Built in sunny Cape Town, South Africa
Theme: Sabino by Kaira
Cart
Checkout
contact
Guest Post
My Account
Shop