How to Regrow Temple Hair | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Hair Care
Growing Hair
How to Regrow Temple Hair
Chris Deoudes
About the Author:
Chris Deoudes
Chris Deoudes has been a fitness writer since 2006, with articles published at Bodybuilding.com and Avant Labs. He is certified as a personal trainer by the American Council on Exercise and as a performance sport nutrition specialist by the International Sports Sciences Association. He has a Bachelor of Arts in criminal justice and business management from the University of Florida.
Men often first notice hair loss on the temple area or on the hair line. Many refer to this as a "receding hair line." While this is not necessarily the beginning of progressive male pattern baldness, it can be distressing. It can also be very confusing sorting through hundreds of hair loss products and misinformation on the topic. Although it can be moderately challenging to regrow temple hair, it can be done and there is an additional permanent option if you are unsuccessful.
How to Regrow Temple Hair
Step 1
Make a doctors appointment. The American Hair Loss Association reports that androgenic alopecia, also known as male pattern baldness, is the cause of 95 percent of hair loss in males. Male pattern baldness is a hormonal condition caused by hairs being attacked and thinned by DHT.
The American Hair Loss Association strongly suggests against researching or purchasing hair loss products on commercial websites. See a doctor or dermatologist that has experience in treating the condition. It is important to determine that your hair loss is a result of male pattern baldness and not another, far less common condition.
Step 2
If your hair loss is from traditional male pattern baldness, ask your doctor about the prescription drug Propecia. Omnimedical Search states that Propecia is only FDA approved pill for hair loss. It functions by lowering DHT levels. Less DHT results in less hair loss.
Step 3
Buy some minoxidil at the grocery store. Minoxidil, formerly patented as Rogaine, is the most sold hair loss treatment in the world according to Hair Site. Minoxidil is thought to function by increasing blood flow to the scalp hair, providing an ideal environment for hair to grow.
Step 4
Buy Nizoral shampoo at the grocery store. Ketoconazole, the primary ingredient in Nizoral, was proven in a Belgian study entitled, "Ketoconazole Shampoo: Effect of Long-Term Use in Androgenic Alopecia," published in the 1998 Journal of Dermatology to be as effective for stimulating hair growth and increasing hair density as two percent minoxidil. Researchers considered ketoconazole a promising addition for the long-term treatment of androgenic alopecia.
Step 5
Be consistent. Dr. Robert Bernstein, a respected hair restoration surgeon suggests staying on Propecia and minoxidil for 12 months because hair growth may take a long time to become visible. Bernstein also notes that although Propecia and minoxidil were only proven to regrow hair on the top of the scalp, they "definitely can" work for the temple region so long as there is still hair remaining in that area.
If your Propecia, minoxidil and ketoconazole shampoo hair loss treatment is unsuccessful, a hair transplant can provide a permanent solution.
Things You'll Need
Minoxidil
Propecia
Ketoconazole shampoo
Tip
Follow your doctor's advice. Use Propecia and minoxidil as directed. Try not to miss taking Propecia. Try not to miss minoxidil applications. Relax, it make take awhile to see results.
Warning
According to Merck, sexual side effects from Propecia occurred in 3 percent of males taking Propecia in their five-year study published in October of 1998.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
American Hair Loss Association: Men's Hair Loss
Omnimedical Search: Finasteride (Propecia) for Hair Loss
Hairsite: Rogaine
Eblue.org: Finasteride in the treatment of men with androgenic alopecia
Bernstein Medical: Can Propecia or Rogaine Improve Receding Hairline Or Front Of Scalp?
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
The Best Method to Regrow Hair on the Crown
2
How to Regrow Hair on a Receding Hairline
3
Propecia Vs. Saw Palmetto
4
Alopecia Treatments That Work for African American Hair Loss
5
Can You Use Both Minoxidil & Saw Palmetto for Hair Loss?
6
Effectiveness of Rogaine
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.