Best Scar Removal Cream – Compare Reviews and Ratings | Bestcovery
Join Bestcovery
|
Sign in
All Categories
Popular Bests
Experts
Recent Bests
MyBest
Health & Beauty	›
Skincare & Face Care	›
Best Scar Removal Cream
Best Scar Removal Cream
Tweet
Whether you've recently undergone surgery or suffered from an accident, you want to restore your damaged skin as quickly as possible. Scar removal products are designed for different types of scarring and so vary in their abilities to reduce or remove scar tissue. Do not expect any scar removal formula to provide quick results as most products fade scars gradually with noticeable results only after several weeks of consistent use.
Fortunately, you can visibly reduce or diminish the appearance of scars using the following scar removal products. These best scar removal creams contain potent active ingredients, provide the most noticeable results, and are recommended by most users.
Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF 30
Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF 30 protects your scar from the darkening effects of the sun while improving the scar's texture, redness, and overall appearance of both old and new scars. This doctor and pharmacist-recommended scar removal cream is clinically proven to deliver results on all types of scars including those resulting from burns, cuts, surgeries, and acne.
Read Full Review
See it at:
Why it's best:
Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF 30 is a step above other scar removal creams because it protects your scar from the sun which darkens scars, making them more visible. Aside from providing sun protection, this cream significantly improves the texture, redness, softness, and overall appearance of scars over an eight-week period according to clinical assessments. Doctors and pharmacists recommend this scar cream because it works on various types of scars including those resulting from surgeries, burns, cuts, and acne. A major benefit of using Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF 30 is that it works on both new and old scars.
CELSUS Bio-Intelligence Scar Treatment and Anti Aging Cream for Scars, Acne Scars, Stretch Marks, Wrinkles
Celsus Bio-Intelligent Scar Cream is a highly effective formula containing 22 active ingredients including natural nutrients, antioxidants, bioactive peptides, and organic botanicals. This award-winning cream is clinically proven to reduce the appearance of scars caused by acne, aging, surgeries, burns, injuries, and stretch marks while improving the overall health of your skin.
Read Full Review
See it at:
Why it's best:
As the winner of the Epic Beauty Award 2012 for Best Scar & Pigment Treatment, Celsus Bio-Intelligent Scar Cream is a highly effective scar cream you can count on. It contains 22 active ingredients which significantly minimize the appearance of all types of scars including those caused by acne, aging, surgeries, burns, injuries, and stretch marks. At the same time this formula nourishes your skin and improves its overall health. This innovative formula is packed full of natural nutrients, antioxidants, bioactive peptides, and organic botanicals clinically proven to be effective at scar reduction. Many positive user testimonials support Celsus Bio-Intelligent Scar Cream as a product worth trying.
Rejuveness Scar Cream
Hyper-Heal Scar Cream by Rejuveness is a natural, non-invasive formula containing essential lipids and bio-molecules which help diminish both minor and serious scars. It removes excessive scar tissue and promotes permanent healing of skin within a couple weeks. This highly advanced cream absorbs easily with leaving the skin feeling greasy.
Read Full Review
See it at:
Why it's best:
Permanently restore your skin to its natural texture and color using Hyper-Heal Scar Cream by Rejuveness. This pharmaceutical-grade scar cream contains all-natural, high-quality ingredients proven to promote collagenase production, a natural enzyme which eliminates excess scar tissue. It also utilizes essential lipids and bio-molecules to encourage a healthy healing environment for skin. Although this highly advanced formula is pricier than some scar creams, you only need to apply a small amount twice per day to diminish all types of scars. Hyper-Heal Scar Cream spreads evenly over skin and absorbs easily without leaving skin greasy.
Scar Fx Esthetique Scar Cream
Scar Esthetique Scar Cream is a non-greasy formula containing 23 effective ingredients. It's proven to successfully lighten and soften both new and old scars, regardless of the type. This advanced formula minimizes the appearance of stretch marks, burns, and skin discolorations. It comes in a larger tube than most scar creams, so you don’t have to refill as often.
Read Full Review
See it at:
Why it's best:
Unlike many scar creams which only contain a few ingredients, Scar Esthetique Scar Cream contains 23 potent ingredients to successfully minimize the appearance of scars, spots and other skin discolorations. This advanced scar therapy cream is proven to effectively work on all types of scars including surgical and traumatic scars as well as stretch marks, burns, and laser resurfacing. It lightens and softens the texture of both old and new scars using a combination of three removal technologies while most scar creams only use one. Users claim Scar Esthetique Scar Cream doesn't produce quick results, but it does produce results.
Quantum Health Derma Scar Cream
Quantum Scar Reducing Herbal Cream is a gentle scar removal cream which heals, nourishes, and moisturizes your skin. It's clinically proven effective at diminishing the appearance of scars due to the 14 natural active ingredients within. This herbal formula is affordable, as well, and can be used on stretch marks, calluses, and other skin-related blemishes.
Read Full Review
See it at:
Why it's best:
Scar Reducing Herbal Cream by Quantum is an all-natural, herbal solution for diminishing the appearance of scars, calluses, stretch marks, and other various skin blemishes. It contains 14 natural ingredients clinically proven provide effective scar removal. This healing cream contains onion extract for its anti-inflammatory benefits, lysine for building healthy skin tissue, allantoin for scar reduction, Vitamin E for skin healing, and several additional moisturizing ingredients like aloe vera gel, vitamin A, and tea tree oil among others. Since Scar Reducing Herbal Cream is very gentle, you may have to wait several months to see results. Nonetheless, it’s very nourishing for your skin and more affordable than other scar removal creams.
By April Dowling, Health & Beauty Expert
Posted May 8, 2014
Leave a Question or Comment
Log in or Create an Account to submit a comment
16 comments
kellywaltersonu
The top 5 here are totally different to the top 4 products I just read about here http://thebeautyreviewer.com/skin-care/scar-removal-cream/the-top-four-scar-treatment-creams/ why does it conflict so much? I don't know which one to get...
Posted on 7/12/2012 12:43 am | Reply
egigcapr3886
I'll try these with my scars. I've got some scars on my legs. Let's see the result.
Posted on 4/10/2012 7:32 pm | Reply
Michelle Cantos
I don't know about Mederma. I know it is sold in all the stores, but it seems to have some questions surrounding it. I saw a review @ http://scar-treatment-research.com. I think Vitamin E is not that effective.
Posted on 2/14/2012 1:02 pm | Reply
zpilot55z
About a year ago, I crashed on my bike and skinned up both my knees and the palms of my hands on the pavement. The scrapes were pretty significant, especially on my right palm. I actually had a sample of this Dr Max Scar Cream and after the first week when the rounds closed, I started applying this instead of neosporain under my bandages. The scrapes on my palms, which were deeper, took about five weeks to heal, but again no scars. I was really amazed with this product becuase I thought certainly the scrape on my right hand would leave a mark but even now when I look at it, I can't even tell where it use to be. It has a very light scent, doesn't sting, and isn't greasy.
Posted on 2/14/2011 7:58 pm | Reply
leimei00
the dr max scar serum is great for removing acne scars. Im surprised it didnt make this list
Posted on 12/10/2010 8:39 pm | Reply
mona
i have scar on face due to chickenpox kindly suggest me something.
Posted on 11/30/2010 5:36 am | Reply
mona
i have acar on my nose and spot near lip with is light but i want to remove them completely kindly suggest me a cream.
Posted on 11/30/2010 5:34 am | Reply
kate
I would rate Kelo-cote far and above Maderma. https://www.kelo-cote.com/ It's not as easy to find but you can get it online. It's amazing and even heals old scars. I highly recommend.
Posted on 8/5/2010 6:49 pm | Reply
Anonymous
How can I get one via some other way?
Posted on 5/10/2010 8:29 pm | Reply
Anonymous
i live in south africa and i got bunt by menthol spirit in 2007 half of my boby so it left me with scars and i cant afford a plastic sergury .i need something to use to remove scars, i tried many things but it didnt help
Posted on 4/23/2010 5:44 am | Reply
Anonymous
I had a facial biopsy that left a divot, I am afraid using a scar removal cream will make the indentation larger. Is this true?
Posted on 4/16/2010 4:34 am | Reply
Anonymous
I had my first henioraphy in 2006 which had left a huge scar 5 inch long below my abdomen due to the incision.I have tried lots of products to remove this scar but all has proven futile.Im worried and hoping to get a remedy :(
Posted on 2/13/2010 4:22 am | Reply
carol
i really dont know what to say but this scar is upto my nerves,can u help please.
Posted on 2/2/2010 12:12 am | Reply
Paul M
Mederma worked well for me when my scar just formed. . .after about a month on Merma, i switched to the DR Max Scar Serum to and used that for about 2 months (since its better for your skin)..that worked perfectly...my scar now is barely visable. . background: i fell off my motorcycle 2 years ago and got about a 2 inch gash on my calf on my leg....hurt like crazy!
Posted on 11/16/2009 11:00 am | Reply
emily
George, I completely agree and had a similar experience - I have had sever acne in the past and was left with unattractive scars on my face. I purchased the Dr Max Powers Scar Serum even though it was semi-expensive, because I needed a solution. The Dr Max Scar Serum does work well, but don't expect to see results instantly. You need to apply it regularly and consistently for about a month in order to see results. It really does work though. My scars are much more toned down and less visible.
Posted on 11/2/2009 4:24 pm | Reply
George Preston
I've had 3 knee surgeries, the first of which was in 2002 from a doctor who really didn't know what he was doing. As a result, I got this huge scar on my knee with 13 little raised scars from the stitches, that I call my football laces. I'm Asian, so I get keloid scars and eventually I just stopped caring about it since I didn't think there was anything I could do about it. I had another surgery in 2006 where the doctor removed my old scar (still had the laces), and I again did nothing. My scar started out as thin and much prettier, but because I didn't take care of it, it eventually spread because of the stretching of the skin while my knee bent. Third surgery was in January of this year, the doctor removed my scar again and kept the laces, but this time, I've decided to take care of this scar. I started using the Dr Max Powers Scar Cream (from www.drmaxpowers.com) 4 times a day 5 days ago and I all ready see a HUGE difference! My raised laces have smoothed out and are starting to fade. I'm not kidding. The place where my drain was is healing well and the big scar itself is looking great. It's not too red or scary, and it's totally soft and looks like a "normal" scar. I can't wait to see it in another month or two, the timeframe that Dr. Max Powers recommends. I really recommend this product to anyone who has a new or an old scar. It WORKS.
Posted on 10/9/2009 4:31 pm | Reply
›
Advertisement
Related Content
Best Anti-Aging Cream
Best Face Wash
Best Moisturizer
Best Face Lotion
Best Lotion for Stretch Marks
Best Hand Sanitizer
Best Body Butter
Best Body Lotion
Best Tanning Lotion
Best Face Scrub
Best Blackhead Treatment
Best BB Cream
About Us
·
Sitemap
·
Privacy Policy
·
Terms of Use
·
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Bestcovery.com, LLC. All rights reserved.