Exercise for Treating Depression
Scroll to Top
Health Tips Yard
Weight Management
Health Tips Videos
Healthy Know How
Organic Living
Natural Remedies Videos
Exercise for Treating Depression
Exercise may seem like the last thing you want to do when you are depressed. But once you get motivated, exercise can make a big difference.
Exercise helps prevent and improve a number of health problems, physical benefits of exercise can also help reduce anxiety and improve mood.
The links between anxiety, depression and exercise aren’t exactly clear — but working out and other forms of physical activity can definitely ease symptoms of anxiety or depression and make you feel better.
How does exercise help depression?
Regular exercise probably helps ease depression in a number of ways, which may include:
a) Releasing feel-good brain chemicals
b) Reducing immune system chemicals
c) Increasing body temperature
Regular exercise has many psychological and emotional benefits:
a) Gain confidence. .
b) Take your mind off worries.
c) Get more social interaction. .
d) Cope in a healthy way.
Some research shows that physical activity such as regular walking and not just formal exercise programs can help improve emotional and mental health.
Certainly running, lifting weights, playing basketball and other fitness activities that get your heart pumping can help. But so can physical activity such as gardening, washing your car, walking around the block or engaging in other less intense activities.
Exercise or other physical activities are not done all at once. You have to find ways to add small amounts of physical activity throughout the day. For example, take the stairs instead of the elevator, parking a little farther away from work to fit in a short walk.
World
Homemade Teeth Whitening
How to have Natural White Teeth in 3 Minutes - Works 100%
Get Rid of Bloodshot Eyes Fast
Mosquito Bite Remedies
11 Natural Cures For Thyroid
Vajacial- the Haitian way (Helps Cleanse Vagina)
National News
Uranium glass is a popular collectible
When you read about uranium, you probably have the idea that you will be radiated. Uranium glass, or Vaseline glass as it was known in the early 20th Century due to its resemblance to it, is now a collectible. What is Uranium glass? In very simple terms, uranium glass is a type of glass containing…
Alain Roberts Still Climbing Skyscrapers at Age 55
Meet Alain Roberts, also known as the ‘French Spiderman’; he has made a career and a whole lot of money by climbing skyscrapers with his bare hands. Alain’s climbing career started when he was barely 12 years old when he could not locate the keys to his apartment on the eighth…
What 5 signs signal dementia is developing?
There are more than 46 million people worldwide suffering from dementia. This degenerative condition is characterized by the progressive loss of cognitive function due to the death of brain cells. Typical symptoms of dementia include: memory loss personality changes trouble speaking and socializing…
Pfizer Abandons Research for New Drugs for Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s
Pfizer announced that it stopped its research to find new drugs to treat Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. According to the company, it wants to realign their focus on areas where they are strongest. Pfizer was one of the pharmaceutical companies, along with Eli Lilly and…
Best Plants to Have in Your Bedroom
Here are the best plants to have in your bedroom.
Our Desk
Most Popular
Your Favorites
Top News
Most Commented
Our Desk
Simple Ways to Ensure Every Day Fitness
It may not be easy for all to resume their fitness work out every day. If you are also among those people who have a tight schedule that makes you compromise with your exercise, then here are a few simple ways you can inspire yourself and make sure to carry out your fitness regime every day: •…
How to Get Motivated For Your Workout
20 Reasons To Exercise Daily
HOW MUCH EXERCISE IS ENOUGH
GOOD RESULTS FOR A 30 MINUTES EXERCISE
More Desk News
Why exercise is important?
Springboard jumping
How to get rid of your double chin ?
Benefits of regular exercising
Preparing for the Gym
Exercise for Treating Depression
Most Popular
What does Dr. William Davis say about wheat belly?
Wheat belly is the concept introduced by Dr. William Davis that propagates the elimination of wheat from your diet to lose weight. Dr. William Davis is a cardiologist and has had a number of patients who were overweight and wanted to control their risk of heart disease. In his bestselling book…
Pantothenic acid (B-5 & B-6) foods
What are the harmful effects of MSG?
Why fish ranks high for nutritional benefits
What apple cider vinegar can do for you
More Popular News
Two Nutritious Vegetable Casserole Recipes
What To Eat For A Stronger Immune System
Teenagers in the United States are not being provided with enough fruits and vegetables
VARIOUS TYPES OF POPULAR DIETS TODAY
How to lose your weight in a healthy way?
Best Protein Shakes For Women.
Your Favorites
Mothers who consume organic food are less likely to give birth to child with hypospadias
Organically produced food is affecting pregnant women. One study finds out that the consumption of organic food during pregnancy decreases chance of giving birth to child with hypospadias. The risk was lower in women who don’t consumer organic food. The report has been compiled through inputs…
What Are The Harms Of Not Living An Organic Lifestyle?
What Does Organic Living Mean?
Organic food: What Is It All About?
Organic Chai Tea Latte
More Favorite News
Is Organic FoodUultimately Healthy For You?
Go Green for Healthy Living
Organic Living: How does it help?
Transform to Organic Lifestyle
Cold weather workout
What is Organic Living?
Top News
What is H. Pylori and 5 natural remedies for it?
If you’ve come across its nasty path, you’ll remember the name. H. Pylori (or Helicobacter pylori) is a stomach bacterium known to cause quite a ruckus in the body when out of check. The bacterium is known to cause ulcers and increase risk for stomach cancer. This infection is initially…
How to cure Eczema and Seborrheic Dermatitis naturally
What is Chi's Myomin?
Five Natural Remedies for Depression
Honey - the natural home remedy
More Top News
What is holistic health?
Treat Swollen Gums At Home Easily Using Something As Simple As Common Salt
Simple Natural and Modern Ways to Enhance Your Beauty at Edge
Use A Potent Mixture Of Garlic And Honey To Do Away With The Symptoms Of Common-Cold
Tap Into The Potentials Of Thyme When You Want Some Relief From Cough And A Sore Throat
Discover Some Natural and Simple Ways To Treat A Cough
Commented
Opt for Healthier Drinks
Soft drinks are sweet, shimmering and delicious, however, don't mistake them for a solid beverage. Specialists have found a huge amount of well being dangers associated with drinking pop. More awful, you're denying yourself of a sound beverage option overflowing with the required vitamins…
Exercise As a Boon to Health
Locals Wants Village Clinic Not To Be Closed
Helpful Information on Depression
Water Is Essential For Your Health
More Commented News
Recommended Diet For Yeast Infection
Natural Remedies for Cold
Acute Stress and its treatment
Benefits of Meditation
Safe surgery concerns
Save your health with liquid egg whites
Popular Posts by Views
Here’s why you should not Take Vacation from Healthy Habits
Tap Into The Benefits Of Fasting During Ramzan But Be Sure To Do It The Proper Way
What makes you tired so fast?
Basic Personal Hygiene for Healthy Living
what are nutrients
Things that can always make you a happier person
Good and bad sides of running on the treadmill
Recipe for a long life
FISH RICH DIET REDUCES CHANCES OF COLORECTAL CANCER
Prevention and Management of Dental Problems
Random Posts
Swallowing a balloon kick-starts losing weight
Four Interactive Tools to Help You Lose Weight
Six weight loss myths
Should teens diet?
Foods to avoid to lose weight
Low Carb Diet - Things misjudged by people
Aaron 225 shoulder press for reps
290kg (639lbs) Raw squat attempt
Side Lunges
How I survived Not Drinking 40 Days
Health Tips Yard © 2019- All rights reserved
Contact Us | Terms Of Use | Privacy Policy | DMCA