Key Chiropractic and Wellness Centers - Chiropractor in San Jose, CA
Would you like to switch to the accessible version of this site?
Go to accessible site Close modal window
Don't need the accessible version of this site?
Hide the accessibility button Close modal window
Accessibility View Close toolbar
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Key Chiropractic and Wellness Centers
408-416-3931
hamburger
Home
New Patient Center
Online Forms
What to Expect
Your First Visit
Phase 1: Relief Care
Phase 2: Corrective Care
Phase 3: Wellness Care
Health Resources
Payment Options
Virtual Office Tour
About Us
Services
Auto Accident Injuries
Chiropractic Services
Postural Analysis and Correction
Far Infrared Sauna
Super-Pulsed Cold Laser Therapy
Whole Body Vibration Therapy
Weight Loss And Detoxification
30 Day Cleansing and Fat Burning System
Isagenix 9 Day Cleanse
Functional Blood Chemistry Analysis
Facial Movement Taping w/ RockTape
Testimonials
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
Blog
New Patient Intake
New patients receive 15% OFF first visit.
Sign Up Now using the form or call us at 408-416-3931 to take advantage of this exclusive offer.
Home >
Articles >
Newsletter Library >
Should I Use Ice or Heat for Pain?
Should I Use Ice or Heat for Pain?
Created in Newsletter Library
Should you use heat or ice on your painful injury? The best method of solving this important riddle is to assess the nature and source of the pain. Essentially, a new injury, that is, one that you sustained within the last 48 hours, is best treated with ice. Chronic pain, or pain that you have had for a long time, is generally best treated with moist heat. Understanding the mechanisms of injury and the physiological and biochemical causes of pain helps us to differentiate the indications for applying ice or applying moist heat.
The primary rule is that you can never go wrong with applying ice. Ice calms things down and, although an ice application may be uncomfortably cold for a few moments, the overall effect is soothing. Cold decreases local metabolism and constricts small blood vessels (arterioles). Cold reduces nerve conduction velocity, that is, the speed at which nerve impulses are transmitted, and therefore reduces the number of pain signals that reach your brain per unit time. Thus, ice applications provide vasoconstriction, analgesia, and sedation. Ice is indicated for acute musculoskeletal injury, burns, insect bites, bleeding, and snake bites. Ice should not be used for gout, rheumatoid arthritis, Raynaud's phenomenon, history of vascular impairment, and cold allergies. As well, ice should not be used for a patient in a coma.
Moist heat increases local metabolism and dilates small blood vessels. Vasodilation results in increased nutrition, increased activity of white blood cells (phagocytosis), and increased removal of waste (metabolic end-products and damaged cellular structures). Moist heat provides analgesia, sedation, and reduces muscle spasms. Heat is best for chronic pain and muscle spasms. Contraindications to moist heat include acute musculoskeletal injury, area of diminished sensation, acute skin conditions, pregnancy, malignancy, diabetes, encapsulated swelling, hemorrhagic disorders, and suppurative conditions.
Generally, ice applications are used for acute injuries within a 72-hour time frame from the onset of the injury. Acute injury damages local capillaries, causing blood to leak into the spaces between cells and tissues, where it doesn't belong. Such uncontained blood causes pressure on local nerve endings, creating pain. Also, pressure is applied to nearby cells, causing extended injury and possibly cell death. Thus, limiting the amount of blood leaking out of disrupted capillaries is critical in slowing the effects and reducing the impact of musculoskeletal injury. Ice performs this function. Ice reduces swelling, reduces pain, and provides a sedative effect.
When applying ice, it's very important to avoid damaging the skin. Ice packs should always be wrapped in a towel. Ice should rarely be applied directly to the skin. Duration and frequency of ice applications is not an exact science, but a useful guideline is to apply ice for 15 minutes every two hours for a moderately acute injury, using three to four ice applications per day. However, you will know instinctively when the time is right to apply the next ice pack.
Moist heat applications follow similar guidelines. Dry heat should never be used. Moist heat packs should be wrapped in a towel and are applied for 15 minutes every two to three hours, up to several applications per day.
Recovering from injury requires your body to put forth a great deal of effort and requires support from the nerve system, the body's master system. Regular chiropractic care provides great assistance in the process of recovery from an injury. By detecting and correcting spinal misalignments and sources of nerve interference, regular chiropractic care helps ensure optimal functioning of the nerve system. Thus, regular chiropractic care helps facilitate your recovery and helps you return to your full range of activities as quickly as possible.
1McCarberg B, D'Arcy Y: Options in topical therapies in the management of patients with acute pain. Postgrad Med 125(4 Suppl 1):19-24, 2013
2Piana LE, et al: The Cold, Hard Facts of Cryotherapy in Orthopedics. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ) 2018 Sep;47(9). doi: 10.12788/ajo.2018.0075
3Mayer JM, Mooney V: Continuous low-level heat wrap therapy for the prevention and early phase treatment of delayed-onset muscle soreness of the low back: a randomized controlled trial. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 87(10):1310-1317, 2006
We May Help You With
Auto Accident Injuries
Back and Shoulder Pain
Body Pain
Chronic Disease Relief
Conditions Affecting Women
Headaches
Herniated Discs
Improved Health
Pediatric Ailments
Repetitive Use Injuries
Respiratory Function
About Chiropractic Care
What is Chiropractic
How Does it Work
Who is Chiropractic For
Vertebral Subluxation
Wellness Resources
Chiropractic Techniques
Chiropractic Therapies
Life is Motion
Healthy Thinking
Get Positive
Relaxation Techniques
Wellness Lifestyle Tips
Treat Yourself Well
Treat Others Well
Eat Well
Wellness Essentials
At Home
At Work
Exercise
Nutrition
What You Wear
Wellness Perspectives
Social
Physical
Spiritual
Mental
Wellness4Kids
Newsletter Library
Weight Loss
Staying Motivated
Staying Young
Life-Work Balance
Stress & Anxiety
Mind-Body Connection
Wellness
Pregnancy & Parenting
Back, Body & Joint Pain
Senior Health
Healthy Tips
Exercise & Fitness
Chronic Conditions
Nutrition & Healthy Eating
Injury Rehab & Prevention
Breaking Bad Habits
Kid's Health
Illness Prevention
Office Hours
Monday:
Closed
Tuesday:
10:00 am-6:30 pm
Wednesday:
10:00 am-1:00 PM
Thursday:
10:00 am-6:30 pm
Friday:
Closed
Saturday:
9:00 am-1:00 pm
Sunday:
Closed
Make an Appointment
We will do our best to accommodate your busy schedule. Schedule an appointment today!
Schedule Now
Services
We strive to provide complete care for our patients. Learn more about all the services we provide.
Learn More
Online Forms
Our patient forms are available online so they can be completed in the convenience of your own home or office.
View Forms
Location
Click the map to view the location nearest to you
Copyright © 2019 MH Sub I, LLC dba iMatrix.
Admin Log In
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Health Disclaimer
Cookie Policy
Site Map