3 Ways to Ice an Injured Ankle - wikiHow
MESSAGES
LOG IN
Log in
FacebookLoading...
GoogleLoading...
CivicLoading...
wikiHow Account
No account yet?	Create an account
EXPLORE
Community DashboardRandom ArticleAbout UsCategoriesRecent Changes
HELP US
Write an ArticleRequest a New ArticleAnswer a RequestMore Ideas...
EDIT
Edit this Article
We use cookies to make wikiHow great. By using our site, you agree to our cookie policy.
Okay
✖
Home
» Categories
» Health
» First Aid and Emergency Health Care
Article
Edit
Discuss
How to Ice an Injured Ankle
Author Info	|13 References
Explore this Article Determining How Serious the Injury is Treating the Injury At Home Understanding How Ice Helps the Injury Questions & Answers Related Articles
wikiHow is a “wiki,” similar to Wikipedia, which means that many of our articles are co-written by multiple authors. To create this article, volunteer authors worked to edit and improve it over time. Together, they cited 13 references. This article has also been viewed 5,898 times. Learn more...
The most common parts of the body that is prone to sprain and injury are our knees and ankles. Injured ligaments swell rapidly and are usually very painful. The greater the pain and swelling is, the more severe the injury likely is. But most minor ankle injuries can be treated at home with the use of ice to limit any swelling.[1]
Steps
Part 1
Determining How Serious the Injury is
1
Go to the emergency room if any bones are visible or protruding from the injured ankle. This means bones have been broken in the ankle as a result of the extreme force applied to it.[2] This level of injury is serious and will require surgical repair of the bones in the ankle to return it in its normal position.
2
Head to the emergency room if the injured ankle is numb, it cannot bear weight, or there is a tingling sensation. These are symptoms that the injured area is not getting enough blood and oxygen. This can also indicate nerve damage, such as a torn ligament.[3]
Applying ice to the injured area will only aggravate the condition as the cold temperature will constrict blood vessels and limit blood flow to the area.
3
Only apply ice to an injured ankle if it is swollen, and 24 hours after the injury occurred. Waiting 24 hours to put ice on the injury will allow the body to supply more blood, oxygen and nutrients to the injured area to facilitate healing.[4]
If ice application is done within the first 24 hours, healing of the area will be compromised.
Part 2
Treating the Injury At Home
1
Explain the procedure to the injured person. This will help to establish trust and cooperation on their part.
Let them know the ice application will help to lessen the pain in their ankle, and that they will have to keep the ice pack on for at least 15-20 minutes.
2
Wash your hands with antibacterial soap and clean water. This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms.
3
Assess the person’s ankle injury. Make sure it can be treated at home and does not have any symptoms of a serious injury that needs immediate medical attention.
Ask the person about the date and time of the ankle injury so you can confirm you are icing it 24 hours after the injury occurred.
4
Prepare the necessary materials. You will need a cold ice pack and a clean cloth. If you don’t have an ice pack, you can take a handful of ice and wrap it in a plastic bag or a clean cloth. You can also use a bag of frozen peas, in a pinch.
Do not apply the ice pack directly to the skin as it can cause cold burns, or skin damage from extremely cold temperature that can leave blisters or damage to the underlying skin tissue.[5]
5
Have the injured person sit or lie comfortably in an open area. Put a clean towel below their injured foot so the ice application will not make a mess.
6
Elevate the injured ankle. You want to ensure the person won’t put any force on their injury. So, have them put their injured ankle on an object that is higher than the level of their hips, while sitting.
Make sure they do not bend their leg so there is no added pressure on the ankle.
7
Place the ice pack or ice wrapped in cloth on the injured ankle. Tell the person that the application may cause a little discomfort but will subside after the ice is removed.
8
Hold the ice pack in place for 5 to 20 minutes or until the person’s skin feels numb. During the ice application, talk to the person and ask them if their skin starts to feel numb. This way, you can assess if it is time to remove the ice.[6]
A numb sensation can be described as inability to feel anything. Usually, upon application of ice, the person can still feel the cold temperature. But as time passes, the person starts to feel nothing at all.
9
Remove the ice pack once the person tells you the injured area is numb. Reapply the ice pack every 2 to 4 hours daily on their ankle until the swelling subsides.
Never leave the ice pack on the person’s ankle unattended as this can cause further injury, such as cold burns.
Repeat the ice application for the next 48 hours. During the first 48 hours the person’s injured ankle will be very swollen, so the ice will help to lessen this swelling.
10
Wash your hands with antibacterial soap and clean water after each application. This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms.
11
Keep the injured ankle elevated as it recovers. Have the person lay down on their back and place their injured ankle on a chair or an object that is 2-3 feet high. The leg with the injured ankle should always be higher than the level of the heart.[7]
12
Allow the person to use their injured ankle after two days. The person should try to walk slowly, though they may need assistance at first.[8]
There should be gradual progressive improvement of the injury.
Pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil) and acetaminophen (Tylenol) can be very helpful in relieving their pain during the healing process.
13
Consult with a doctor if the injury does not improve after 2 to 3 days. The doctor will ask questions about how the injury occurred and examine the injured ankle. The doctor may also take X-rays of the ankle to make sure it is not a bone fracture.[9]
Keep in mind if the injury is mild, there may not be much pain or swelling. The severity of the injury depends on how badly the ligaments are stretched or torn in the ankle.
It’s important to go see a doctor if the injured ankle has already been injured before.[10]
Part 3
Understanding How Ice Helps the Injury
1
Be aware that an injury to the ankle means the tendons and ligaments have become disrupted or torn. Whether you are playing contact sports or doing a work-related task, injuries to the ankles means the tendons (soft tissue connecting muscle to the bone) and the ligaments (tissue connecting two bones) of the ankle have been affected.
As a result, the blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to these tissues also get torn and leak blood into the surrounding tissues, resulting in bruising on the injured area.
Substances called prostaglandins also accumulate in the damaged area. These substances stimulate the pain receptors to send pain signals to your brain and to cause swelling in the area by dilating the blood vessels to increase blood flow.[11] The more blood flowing to the injured area, the more swelling occurs.
2
Understand how applying an ice pack to the area reduces swelling. Your body will send send blood to the injured area, resulting in swelling, as a way to protect itself by supplying sufficient oxygen and nutrients to facilitate healing.[12] Cold applications such as an ice pack cause the blood vessels to constrict and to limit blood flow to the injured area, which minimizes swelling.
An ice application to the injured ankle has an added benefit of providing pain relief by numbing the nerve endings in the area.[13]
3
If you have blood circulation issues, talk to your doctor before applying an ice pack to your injury. Blood circulation issues and disorders such as diabetes, peripheral arterial disease (narrowing of arteries that supply blood to the legs) and Buerger's disease (narrowing of blood vessels in the arms and legs), can get worse due to a cold application.
Community Q&A
Search
Add New Question
Question
How do I treat a twisted ankle
Community Answer
Stretch it regularly to increase range of motion, put a compression band on it if you are going out, and ice it regularly. Doing exercises such as standing on a pillow with the twisted ankle for a minute will strengthen the affected muscle.
Thanks!
Yes No
Not Helpful 0 Helpful 0
Ask a Question
200 characters left
Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.
Submit
Already answered
Not a question
Bad question
Other
EditRelated wikiHows
How to
Know if Left Arm Pain Is Heart Related
How to
Reduce Swollen Fingers
How to
Tape a Thumb
How to
Sterilize a Needle
How to
Reduce Facial Swelling
How to
Do Basic First Aid
How to
Help Someone Who Has Swallowed Gasoline
How to
Deal With the Pain of a Door Being Shut on Your Finger
How to
Numb Skin
How to
Handle an Emergency Situation
How to
Treat a Finger Hit by a Hammer
How to
Prevent Altitude Sickness
How to
Reduce Tongue Swelling
How to
Tell if Someone Is Dead
References
↑ http://www.mayoclinic.org/first-aid/first-aid-sprain/basics/art-20056622
↑ Linton, A., 2014, April 14
↑ Ignatavicius, D., Workman, M., 2013
↑ Walker, B., 2007
↑ Thygerson, S., Thygerson, A., Aaos, 2011
↑ Diaz, L., et al, 2013, September 16
↑ http://www.uwhealth.org/uw-doctors/ankle-sprains/11473
↑ http://www.mayoclinic.org/first-aid/first-aid-sprain/basics/art-20056622
↑ http://familydoctor.org/familydoctor/en/prevention-wellness/staying-healthy/first-aid/ankle-sprains-healing-and-preventing-injury.html
↑ http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3081099/
↑ http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3081099/
↑ Workman, M.L., LaCharity, L., Kruchko, S., 2013, December 27
↑ Rosdahl, C., Kowalski, M., 2008
Show more... (4)
Things You’ll Need
Ice pack, or a cold compress
Towel
Article Info
wikiHow is a “wiki,” similar to Wikipedia, which means that many of our articles are co-written by multiple authors. To create this article, volunteer authors worked to edit and improve it over time. Together, they cited 13 references. This article has also been viewed 5,898 times.
Categories: First Aid and Emergency Health Care
Print
Edit
Send fan mail to authors
Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 5,898 times.
Did this article help you?
Yes
No
Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy.
About This Article
4 votes - 75%
Click a star to vote
75% of people told us that this article helped them.
Co-authors: 2
Updated: March 29, 2019
Views: 5,898
Quick Tips
Related Articles
How to
Know if Left Arm Pain Is Heart Related
How to
Reduce Swollen Fingers
How to
Tape a Thumb
How to
Sterilize a Needle
Did this article help you?
Yes
No
Thanks for letting us know.
Home
About wikiHow
Jobs
Terms of Use
Site Map
Mobile view
Help answer questions
Learn more
252