Depression Archives - Page 2 of 3 - NeurOasis Depression Archives - Page 2 of 3 - NeurOasis
Disorders Treated
TMS for Depression
TMS for Anxiety
TMS for PTSD
TMS for Migraines
TMS for Parkinson’s Disease
About TMS Therapy
What is TMS Therapy
How transcranial magnetic stimulation works
Is TMS Effective?
Why choose transcranial magnetic stimulation?
Is TMS safe?
FAQs about TMS
About Us
Patient Info
Does Insurance Cover TMS Therapy?
Patient Forms
Patient Testimonials
Latest Developments
Make an Appointment
Category: Depression
Why Traditional Treatment Isn’t Working
Major depressive disorder is the leading cause of disability in the U.S. It affects over 16 million American adults or about 6.7% of the U.S. population.
Normally, depression is managed through the use of antidepressants, anti-anxiety medications (if one has another mental or physical condition), and psychotherapy.
While medications and psychotherapy are considered the standard treatment for depression, it doesn’t mean that they work for everyone. In one article published in the Harvard Health blog, it says that only a third of those with major depression achieved remission after trying one antidepressant.
There is a term used to describe the type of depression that is not responsive to standard or conventional treatment method – treatment-resistant depression. You are most likely to have it if standard depression treatments like antidepressants and psychotherapy isn’t enough. They may not help much at all or you may feel better for a short while, only for the symptoms to come back after a certain period of time.
TMS Therapy
If you’re tired of trying different antidepressants and hopping from one therapist to another, it may be time to consider alternative depression treatments like TMS therapy.
TMS therapy or transcranial magnetic stimulation is a noninvasive procedure that uses magnetic fields in order to stimulate certain areas of the brain responsible for your depressive symptoms. It’s FDA approved and a safe procedure for the treatment of conditions like depression, anxiety, and even PTSD.
One of the best things about TMS therapy, is that unlike conventional depression treatment methods, it isn’t associated with major side effects. To find out more how TMS can help ease your depression symptoms, you can contact us to schedule an appointment.
Author adminPosted on March 23, 2018 March 23, 2018 Categories Depression, TMS TherapyTags arizona, depression, depression treatment, neuroasis, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, treatment, tucsonLeave a comment on Why Traditional Treatment Isn’t Working
3 Ways to Boost Your Mood
It’s normal to feel down from time to time. This can happen as a result of unmet expectations, environment, hormones, or a combination of these factors.
If you’ve been feeling down lately, the following ways can help boost your mood:
Exercise
Regular exercise doesn’t just benefit the body. It can also benefit your mental health. There is strong evidence supporting the positive effects of exercise on mental disorders like depression, anxiety, and ADHD. It helps by promoting better sleep, relieving stress, and boosting your overall mood.
Exercise promotes all kinds of changes in the brain including new activity patterns that help in promoting the sense of well-being and calmness. Some studies have shown that it can even be as effective as antidepressant medications for people suffering with mild to moderate depression, without the side effects.
Music therapy
Have you noticed how simply listening to songs that remind you of happy memories can uplift your mood? Music has been proven to help those living with depression. It increases your self-esteem, reduces muscle tension, increases motivation, and it is a safe and effective way for emotional release.
Finish a task on your to-do list
Is there project you’ve always wanted to do or have left off for some time? Then, it’s time to start or get back at it. You’ll notice that by making progress, no matter how small it may seem, can instantly uplift your mood. We understand that there are emotional disorders such as major depressive disorder that can’t be fixed overnight.
If you’re someone who suffers from depression and haven’t found an effective way of improving the symptoms through lifestyle changes or traditional treatment methods, you may be a candidate for TMS therapy.
About TMS
TMS therapy, or transcranial magnetic stimulation, is an FDA-approved, non-invasive way of improving the symptoms of depression and other mental health disorders. It stimulates certain areas of the brain, resulting to a reduction of depressive symptoms.
If you want to find out more about TMS and how it can help you, you can contact us to schedule an appointment.
Author adminPosted on March 9, 2018 March 9, 2018 Categories DepressionLeave a comment on 3 Ways to Boost Your Mood
Signs Your Partner May Be Depressed
Depression is a common mental health disorder, affecting over 15 million Americans. Despite this figure, it can still be hard to tell if one is depressed especially if it’s your partner.
There are subtle signs of this disorder that can easily go unnoticed. These include:
Isolation
When a person is depressed, he/she tends to isolate himself/herself because everything in his/her life seems like a burden. He/she may feel embarrassed about it so he/she gets into a solitary mode.If your partner is a social person and suddenly gets into solitary activities, sleeps more, or watches television more often, then it can be that he/she is depressed.
Lack of motivation
Does your ever-punctual partner develop a new habit around tardiness? It could be more than just about poor time management.People who are depressed tend to lose their motivation in doing things they used to love. Their sadness can immobilize them, making it difficult for them to get up in the morning.
Change in appearance
A change in appearance or weight can be a subtle sign of depression. When a person is depressed, he/she no longer care or takes pride in the way he/she looks. Weight gain and weight loss are both common in depressed people.
Fatigue
Depression can cause someone to feel unusually tired. The fatigue can also be a result of change in his/her sleeping patterns. They may sleep more than usual, and have a hard time getting out of bed in the morning.
Reactivity changes
When your partner seems to have a sudden shift in reactivity – be it having a short temper or having a flat response, then it’s possible that he/she is struggling with depression.
What You Can Do
If you think your partner is depressed, it’s important to seek help for diagnosis and treatment. The longer you wait, the deeper your partner sinks and the greater is the risk of depression affecting your relationship.
Once diagnosis has been made, it’s important to develop a plan together to tackle depression. It may involve reaching out to a mental health professional who can help your partner cope with his/her feelings, solve problems, and change behavior patterns. This can be in the form of talk therapy, medications, or a combination of both.
Conventional methods like therapy and medications do not work for everyone though. If your partner’s depressive symptoms are not improving, know that there’s an alternative treatment – TMS.
TMS or transcranial magnetic stimulation is a non-invasive, FDA-approved treatment for conditions like depression and anxiety. If you want to know more about it, you can contact us to schedule an appointment.
Author adminPosted on February 9, 2018 Categories DepressionTags arizona, depressed, depression, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, tucsonLeave a comment on Signs Your Partner May Be Depressed
Beat the New Year Blues
The idea of beginning a “New Year” may ignite a feeling of excitement and promise for some, but for many people that is not the case.
Some experience a spike in depression this time of year. The New Year blues, which usually occur in January, can happen for several reasons. The incessant worry of the future, feeling unaccomplished to what transpired in the previous year, and gaining extra pounds from holiday parties can all contributing factors to this post-holiday depression.
Overcoming the New Year Blues
The following strategies can help you get through the New Year blues:
Avoid personalizing failures and setbacks
If you’re the kind of person who to tend to focus on your past failures and negative experiences, then try this year to change that. You can start by evaluating these experiences objectively. See them as they are and figure out what you can do to keep them from happening again. Don’t internalize bad experiences, thinking that they only happen to you because they don’t; every person has failed and has a fair share of bad experiences.
Stay active
Whether it’s taking a walk or cleaning your house, engaging yourself in any form of physical activity can help beat the New Year blues. Physical activity can make you feel better as it triggers the release of endorphins in your brain (these are also known as the “feel good” hormones).
Consider treatment
If medications, therapy, and traditional methods of treatment don’t work in improving your depression symptoms, consider TMS therapy.
TMS therapy, or transcranial magnetic stimulation, is a non-invasive, FDA-approved method for improving the symptoms of depression and anxiety. Although it’s still unclear as to how it improves the depressive symptoms, several studies have shown that TMS works.
Don’t let your past define what you’ll become this year. NeurOasis can help you get back on your feet through TMS therapy. Call (520) 338-2557, or request an appointment online to see how we can help you in the new year.
Author adminPosted on January 24, 2018 Categories Depression, TMS TherapyLeave a comment on Beat the New Year Blues
New Year, New You with NeurOasis
The persistent feeling of sadness and the loss of interest in things or activities you used to enjoy is not normal. If you’re experiencing these symptoms or finding it hard to function in your every-day life, you may be depressed.
What is depression?
Depression is an overwhelming feeling of sadness or loneliness, usually lasting for long periods of time. Unlike occasional sadness or loneliness, depression can cause physical symptoms and can greatly impact your quality of life.
Depression can affect the way you live, including your interactions and relationships with people in your life. Traditional treatments of depression include the use of antidepressant drugs, psychotherapy, or a combination of both. It is not uncommon for these to decrease in effectiveness over time. If you’ve tried traditional treatment methods with little to no results, it may be time to consider an alternative option.
TMS for Depression
TMS, or transcranial magnetic stimulation, is an alternative treatment option for mood disorders like depression. It’s a noninvasive procedure that uses magnetic fields to stimulate the nerve cells of the brain, improving the symptoms of depression. It’s typically recommended when the usual treatment for depression isn’t working.
During a TMS session, an electromagnetic coil is used. This is placed against the scalp to deliver magnetic pulses that stimulate the nerve cells that are involved in mood control and depression. Studies have shown that such stimulation affects how the brain works and effectively improves the symptoms of depression.
Give yourself the gift of freedom in the New Year!
NeurOasis in Tucson, Arizona specializes in TMS therapy. We want to be part of your journey. Call (520) 338-2557 to schedule a free consultation with one of our specialists today.
Author adminPosted on January 9, 2018 May 23, 2018 Categories Depression, TMS TherapyTags anxiety, arizona, depression, freedom, neuroasis, stress, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, tucsonLeave a comment on New Year, New You with NeurOasis
Holiday Depression
For many people, the holidays are the happiest times of the year. However, for some, it’s the complete opposite. The hustle and the bustle during the holiday season can cause stress, anxiety, and loneliness.
Why We Get Depressed During the Holidays
There are several reasons why depression is common during the holidays. These include:
Social isolation
Social isolation is the most common reason for the holiday blues. This is usually the case for those who have a small social circle or those with little to no opportunities for social interaction. It’s easy for these people to view those who are with their family or friends as happier than they are. They may even ask themselves, “why can’t that be me?”
Unrealistic expectations
The excessive commercialization of the holidays and the perfect holiday depicted by many TV shows and ads can make some people set unrealistic expectations for the season. And when these expectations are not met, they end up disappointed and depressed.
Never-ending to-do list
The holiday season can create fear and a heightened pressure on those who are trying to do so much. Coupled with perfectionism, those with a never-ending to-do list can easily feel defeated even with the slightest mistake in doing something. They feel like they already disappointed the people around them and that they’re always bound for failure.
What to Do
If you’re already starting to feel the holiday blues, then know that there are ways to help in alleviating it.
Try to reduce your stress
Try to reduce your stress. You can do this by limiting your commitments and family activities, setting limits on your holiday purchases, and setting realistic expectations for the season.
Continue your healthy practices
Eating healthy and engaging in regular physical activity are shown to help in reducing your risk of mood problems.
Join support groups
Seeking help from a counselor or support group can provide you with social support during this vulnerable time of the year.
If depression is something you experience outside of the holiday season, it may be time to think about other options. NeurOasis specializes in TMS therapy. TMS therapy, or transcranial magnetic stimulation, is a safe, effective, and noninvasive way of managing the symptoms of depression, anxiety and other mood disorders.
Contact us to find out how we can help you cope with the holiday depression
Author adminPosted on December 15, 2017 December 15, 2017 Categories DepressionTags anxiety, arizona, depression, holiday depression, neuroasis, seasonal depression, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, tucsonLeave a comment on Holiday Depression
Depression in Women
About 15 million people in the U.S. suffer from depression each year.
Research has shown that women are twice as likely to develop depression than men, and it’s estimated that about 1 in 4 women will have an episode of major depression at some point in her life.
Types of Depression That Affect Women
There are different types of depression that affect women. The most common are: major depression, postpartum depression, and persistent depressive disorder.
Major Depression
Major depression is a severe form of depression. In this type of depression, women lose their ability to find pleasure in things and activities that they used to find enjoyable. This greatly affects the way they work, function in day-to-day life, and deal with others.
Postpartum Depression
Also known as the “baby blues,” postpartum depression is a type of depression that occurs in women after the birth of their baby. Symptoms of postpartum depression usually occur in months following birth.
Persistent Depressive Disorder
A milder form of depression, persistent depressive disorder is characterized by an extended depressed mood. This can last for two years or more.
The Risk Factors
It is still unclear why the gender gap in depression exists in. However, researchers suspect that some of it can be brought on by genes, hormones, and stress.
Genes
Studies suggest that heredity accounts for 40 percent of the cases of depression. Researchers found out though that certain genetic mutations that are linked to severe depression only occur in women.
Hormones
For years, researchers have suspected that fluctuations in women’s hormones, specifically with estrogen, contribute to a woman’s greater vulnerability to depression.
Stress
Women are more likely than men to become depressed when exposed to certain stressful events. Being the primary caregiver and financial inequality can also contribute to the development of depression in women.
Treating Depression in Women
Depression in women is treated the same way as depression in men. It is most commonly treated through medications, therapy, or a combination of the two.
If you’ve tried everything with no results from traditional treatment methods, NeurOasis wants to help you get your life back. We specialize in Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation. TMS Therapy is a safe and FDA-approved treatment for major depression.
Make an appointment online or call (520) 338-2557 to get your free consultation today.
Author adminPosted on November 20, 2017 Categories DepressionTags arizona, depressed, depression, depression treatment, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, tucson, womenLeave a comment on Depression in Women
Parkinson’s Disease & Depression
Depression is common in patients with Parkinson’s disease. It’s a neurodegenerative disorder that affects the dopamine-producing neurons.
Dopamine plays different roles in the brain, which include those pertaining to motor function, arousal, motivation, reward, and some executive functions.
The exact cause of Parkinson’s disease is still unknown. While it’s not fatal, the disease can be debilitating. It can cause tremors (mainly at rest), slow movement, gait and balance problems, limb rigidity, and depression.
Depression in Parkinson’s Disease
Depression in Parkinson’s disease is an array of symptoms that may occur during the early stage of the disease. Oftentimes, it occurs years before other symptoms of Parkinson’s show up.
Aside from having a negative impact on one’s quality of life, depression can also worsen other symptoms of Parkinson’s disease.
Some of the common symptoms associated with Parkinson’s related depression includes:
Changes in appetite
Difficulty in concentrating
Low energy level
Low self-esteem
Depressed mood
Inability to find pleasure in things you used to enjoy
Suicidal thoughts
Treating Depression in Parkinson’s Disease
Depression in Parkinson’s disease is usually managed through a combination of medication and psychological therapy. There are alternative treatments though if none of these traditional treatment methods provide results. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is one of these alternative treatment methods.
TMS is a form of therapy that uses magnetic pulses to stimulate certain areas of the brain. It’s a safe and FDA-approved treatment for major depression.
NeurOasis is dedicated to treating patients with conditions like depression who have not found improvements in their symptoms through traditional methods.
To find out more how we can help you through TMS, you can schedule a free consultation with us today.
Author adminPosted on November 8, 2017 Categories DepressionTags arizona, depression, depression treatment, parkinsons disease, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, tucsonLeave a comment on Parkinson’s Disease & Depression
TMS Therapy – A New Treatment for Depression
Major depressive disorder (MDD) remains to be the leading cause of disability in the U.S. for ages 15 to 44. Although it can affect both men and women, MDD affects more women than men.
About Major Depressive Disorder
Also known as clinical depression, major depressive disorder is a mood disorder characterized by the constant feeling of hopelessness and despair. A person with MDD suffers from intense and persistent feelings of sadness for an extended period of time.
Major depression can affect different areas of one’s life including work, study, and even relationships. It can also affect physical functions, such as sleep and appetite. Those with MDD often lose interest in activities they used to enjoy and have difficulty performing day-to-day activities.
Antidepressants are a popular choice of treatment for depression. These are a group of drugs that are designed to help correct chemical imbalances in the brain and potentially reduce the symptoms of depression.
TMS Therapy for Depression
Antidepressants are common for the treatment of depression, but some studies suggest that they don’t provide results in all cases. The effectiveness of antidepressants depends largely on the severity of the depression.
If antidepressants are no longer helping, it may be time for you to consider other treatment options.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS therapy, is a noninvasive procedure that uses a magnetic field to stimulate certain areas of the brain. It is a FDA-approved treatment for major depressive disorder, as well as other mood disorders.
At NeurOasis in Tucson, we are committed to helping our clients manage their depression through innovative technology. Our healthcare specialists have over 30 years of combined experience in mental health, and understand the challenges faced when living with a mental health disorder.
To learn more about TMS therapy at NeurOasis, contact us online or call 520-338-2557 today.
Author adminPosted on October 9, 2017 Categories DepressionTags arizona, depression, depression treatment, major depressive disorder, neuroasis, tms therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, tucsonLeave a comment on TMS Therapy – A New Treatment for Depression
TMS: Fighting Depression by Targeting the Brain’s Wiring
Doctors Are Now Fighting Depression by Targeting the Brain’s Wiring, Not Its Chemical Balance…
Doctors Are Now Fighting Depression by Targeting the Brain’s Wiring, Not Its Chemical Balance
Depression is becoming an epidemic that is damaging individuals, society, and the economy. Its has become the leading source of disability and of ill health in the U.S. It affects more than 15 million adults in total, including 1.5 percent of the U.S. population over the age of 18 in a given year. Depression is especially on the rise in young people, with its rates in teenage girls jumping by 37 percent over the last decade.
Although the standard treatment for depression is medication, scientists have recently discovered the physical seat of depression in the brain, as well as the particular genes that cause it. This has led to exploration in treatment for depression as a physiological issue, not a chemical one.
Ian Cook, director of the UCLA Depression Research and Clinic Program, said in a UCLA press release that they “are actually changing how the brain circuits are arranged, how they talk to each other” (with Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation).
Read the full article at Futurism.com
Author adminPosted on June 15, 2017 September 18, 2017 Categories DepressionLeave a comment on TMS: Fighting Depression by Targeting the Brain’s Wiring
Posts navigation
Previous page Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page
Recent Posts
Stress Awareness Month April 12, 2019
Living With Anxiety April 2, 2019
Treating PTSD with TMS Therapy March 20, 2019
Email*
Categories
Anorexia
Anxiety
Autism
Depression
Happiness
Tinnitus
TMS Therapy
Uncategorized
We want to be a part of your journey to remission. Find out how TMS Therapy could make a difference in your life.
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Leave this field empty if you're human:
QUICK LINKS
Our Services
Latest Developments
About Us
Patient Corner
Why choose TMS?
FAQs
Make an Appointment
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
FROM TWITTER
NeurOasisTMS
@NeurOasisTMS
According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, approximately 16.1 million adults in the United Sta… https://t.co/4e7OIwR22j
20 hours ago
NeurOasisTMS
@NeurOasisTMS
Here are 10 of the BEST mental health apps to try. Because keeping your stress in check is key for your mental well… https://t.co/NwH1IwjXzi
3 days ago
CONTACT INFORMATION
NEUROASIS
4578 N 1st Ave, Suite 100
Tucson, AZ 85718
Phone: (520) 338-2557
Fax: (520) 844-9535
info@neuroasistms.com
Hours: Mon-Fri, 9AM-5PM
© NEUROASIS. 2018. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
English