Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis) in Adults: Condition, Treatments, and Pictures - Overview | skinsight
SKIN CONDITIONS HEALTH TOPICS FOR PROFESSIONALS
SKIN CONDITIONS
HOME
SKIN CONDITIONS
HEALTH TOPICS
FOR PROFESSIONALS
Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis)
52403 34 Information for Adults Child Teen
Table of Contents Overview	Who's at Risk	Signs and Symptoms	Self-Care Guidelines	When to Seek Medical Care	Treatments Your Provider May Prescribe	Trusted Links	References
caption goes here...
Images of Tinea Pedis (Athlete's Foot, Ringworm of Foot or Feet)
Close Video
Overview
Athlete's foot (tinea pedis), also known as ringworm of the foot, is a surface (superficial) fungal infection of the skin of the foot. The most common fungal disease in humans, athlete's foot, may be passed to humans by direct contact with infected people, infected animals, contaminated objects (such as towels or locker room floors), or the soil.
Who's at risk?
Athlete's foot may occur in people of all ages, of all races, and of both sexes. However, athlete's foot is more common in males than in females. Children rarely develop athlete's foot.
Some conditions make athlete's foot more likely to occur:
Living in warm, humid climates
Using public or community pools or showers
Wearing tight, non-ventilated footwear
Sweating profusely
Having diabetes or a weak immune system
Signs and Symptoms
The most common locations for athlete's foot include:
Spaces (webs) between the toes, especially between the 4th and 5th toes and between the 3rd and 4th toes
Soles of the feet
Tops of the feet
Athlete's foot may affect one or both feet. It can look different depending on which part of the foot (or feet) is involved and which fungus (ie, dermatophyte) has caused the infection:
On the top of the foot, athlete's foot appears as a red scaly patch or patches, ranging in size from 1 to 5 cm. The border of the affected skin may be raised, with bumps, blisters, or scabs. Often, the center of the lesion has normal-appearing skin with a ring-shaped edge, leading to the descriptive but inaccurate name ringworm. (It is inaccurate because there is no worm involved.)
Between the toes (the interdigital spaces), athlete's foot may appear as inflamed, scaly, and soggy tissue. Splitting of the skin (fissures) may be present between or under the toes. This form of athlete's foot tends to be quite itchy.
On the sole of the foot (the plantar surface), athlete's foot may appear as pink-to-red skin with scales ranging from mild to widespread (diffuse).
Another type of tinea pedis infection, called bullous tinea pedis, has painful and itchy blisters on the arch (instep) and/or the ball of the foot.
The most severe form of tinea pedis infection, called ulcerative tinea pedis, appears as painful blisters, pus-filled bumps (pustules), and shallow open sores (ulcers). These lesions are especially common between the toes but may involve the entire sole. Because of the numerous breaks in the skin, lesions commonly become infected with bacteria. Ulcerative tinea pedis occurs most frequently in people with diabetes and others with weak immune systems.
Self-Care Guidelines
If you suspect that you have athlete's foot, you might try one of the following over-the-counter antifungal creams or lotions:
Terbinafine
Clotrimazole
Miconazole
Apply the antifungal cream between the toes and to the soles of both feet for at least 2 weeks after the areas are completely clear of lesions.
In addition, try to keep your feet dry, creating a condition where the fungus cannot live and grow:
Wash your feet daily and dry them carefully, even using a hair dryer (on low setting) if possible.
Use a separate towel for your feet, and do not share this towel with anyone else.
Wear socks made of cotton or wool, and change them once or twice a day, or even more often if they become damp.
Avoid shoes made of synthetic materials such as rubber or vinyl.
Wear sandals as often as possible.
Apply antifungal powder to your feet and inside your shoes every day.
Wear protective footwear in locker rooms and public or community pools and showers.
When to Seek Medical Care
If the lesions do not improve after 2 weeks of applying over-the-counter antifungal creams or if they are exceptionally itchy or painful, see your doctor for an evaluation. If you have blisters, pustules, and/or ulcers on your feet, see a doctor as soon as possible.
Treatments Your Physician May Prescribe
To confirm the diagnosis of athlete's foot, your physician might scrape some surface skin material (scales) onto a glass slide and examine them under a microscope. This procedure, called a KOH (potassium hydroxide) preparation, allows the doctor to look for tell-tale signs of fungal infection.
Once the diagnosis of athlete's foot has been confirmed, your physician will probably start treatment with an antifungal medication. Most infections can be treated with topical creams and lotions, including:
Over-the-counter preparations such as terbinafine, clotrimazole, or miconazole
Prescription-strength creams such as econazole, oxiconazole, ciclopirox, ketoconazole, sulconazole, naftifine, or butenafine
Other topical medications your physician may consider:
Compounds containing urea, lactic acid, or salicylic acid to help dissolve the scale and allow the antifungal cream to penetrate better into the skin
Solutions containing aluminum chloride, which reduces sweating of the foot
Antibiotic creams to prevent or treat bacterial infections, if present
Rarely, more extensive infections or those not improving with topical antifungal medications may require 3–4 weeks of treatment with oral antifungal pills, including:
Terbinafine
Itraconazole
Griseofulvin
Fluconazole
Ketoconazole
The infection should go away within 4–6 weeks after using effective treatment.
Trusted Links
MedlinePlus: Athlete's FootClinical Information and Differential Diagnosis of Tinea Pedis (Athlete's Foot, Ringworm of Foot or Feet)
References
Bolognia, Jean L., ed. Dermatology, pp.1174-1185. New York: Mosby, 2003.
Freedberg, Irwin M., ed. Fitzpatrick's Dermatology in General Medicine. 6th ed. pp.1251, 2000-2001, 2337, 2340-2041, 2446-2447. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2003.
Table of Contents Overview	Who's at Risk	Signs and Symptoms	Self-Care Guidelines	When to Seek Medical Care	Treatments Your Provider May Prescribe	Trusted Links	References
Share
Table of Contents Overview	Who's at Risk	Signs and Symptoms	Self-Care Guidelines	When to Seek Medical Care	Treatments Your Provider May Prescribe	Trusted Links	References
Tools & Resources Skin Condition Finder Library of skin conditions and skin diseases MedlinePlus: Athlete's FootClinical Information and Differential Diagnosis of Tinea Pedis (Athlete's Foot, Ringworm of Foot or Feet)
Share this Page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share by Email
About Us
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Health Topics Archive
Skin Condition Searches
© 2006 - 2019 VisualDx. All rights reserved.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of Skinsight's terms of service and privacy policy. The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider.