Tummy Tuck Scars: Prevention, Treatment, and Removal
Newsletter
Content created by Healthline and sponsored by our partners.​ ​ Learn​ ​more
Your Look, Your Way
How to Minimize or Remove Tummy Tuck Scarring
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN on May 18, 2017 — Written by Emily Cronkleton
Before your tummy tuck
After your tummy tuck
If you still experience scarring
Takeaway
It’s a two-part process
If you’re getting a tummy tuck, you can expect to have a scar. However, there are steps you can take to reduce its visibility. What you do before your surgery is just as important as — if not more important than — what you do in recovery.
Here’s what you should keep in mind ahead of your surgery, what to watch for afterward, and what your options for scar removal are.
What you can do before your tummy tuck
When selecting a surgeon, it’s important that you look at their portfolio. This will give you a frame of reference for their skillset and typical results. You’ll want to choose someone who has proven themselves as a reputable surgeon and with whom you feel comfortable.
Before your surgery, talk with your surgeon about the scarring. You can bring up any specific concerns you may have and determine what your scar is expected to look like. Depending on your individual surgery, you may have a V- or U-shaped scar.
Bring underwear or bikini bottoms to your surgical planning appointment so you can get a clear idea of where the scarring will be in relation to your panty line.
You should also completely stop smoking for at least six weeks before your surgery. This will help to reduce complications.
What you can do after your tummy tuck
It’s extremely important that you follow all of the aftercare instructions provided by your surgeon.
Some general guidelines include:
Try to walk as soon as possible after your surgery. This reduces swelling and the risk of blood clots.
Continue to refrain from smoking for at least six weeks.
Follow a healthy diet. Include plenty of liquids, fresh fruit, vegetables.
Refrain from lifting heavy items and avoid any strenuous activity for at least six weeks.
Avoid any activity that stretches, bends, or causes you to put pressure on your abdomen.
Avoid sexual activity for three weeks after your surgery.
Apply topical vitamin E
Some suggests that using vitamin E topically can improve the appearance of scars. It can also help to keep your scar moisturized.
Be sure to use 100 percent pure vitamin E oil. You should apply it to your scar at least once a day for the first couple of months. You can also use this as a chance to massage the scar tissue once it has healed.
If you experience any type of skin irritation or allergic reaction, discontinue use.
Don’t forget the sunscreen
It’s important to use sunscreen on your scar for at least a year after your surgery. If you can, it’s best to avoid sunning the area.
Scars are made of new skin and react differently to the sun than normal skin. Using sunscreen will prevent a scar from becoming darker than the surrounding skin.
If you can, use a formula that’s made specifically for scars. You should also use something that’s SPF 30 or higher.
A few popular options include:
Mederma Scar Cream
Professional Sunscreen for Scars
Bioderma Photoderm LASER SPF50+ Cream
ScarScreen SPF 30
Watch for signs of infection
It’s important to clean your incision daily. Not only will keeping your scar clean and healthy reduce its appearance, it will also reduce your risk of infection.
See your doctor if you have any of the following symptoms:
excessive bleeding along the incision line
increased or severe swelling, bruising, or redness that isn’t getting better
severe pain that isn’t relieved by medication
yellowish or greenish drainage from the incision
any discharge that has an unpleasant odor
loss of feeling or motion
oral temperature over 100.4°F (38°C)
fever or chills
What you can do if you still experience scarring
Your scar will be mostly healed after about 12 weeks, but it can take up to a year for it to fully heal. You may want to wait until it has healed to decide if you want to undergo any surgical procedures that will minimize its appearance.
These methods won’t be able to completely remove the scar, but they can help to improve its size, color, and texture.
Steroid applications and injections
You may choose to use steroid applications or injections to get rid of raised, thick, or red scars. These treatments may be used at the time of surgery for scar prevention or four weeks after surgery for correction.
The cost will depend on the size and severity of the scar. It’s usually a few hundred dollars per treatment.
Laser treatment
Laser treatments are also available. Vascular lasers collapse the tiny blood vessels on the surface of the skin that cause redness. Laser surfacing is one of the best options to improve the texture and color of scars. This technology can resurface the skin. Scarred skin is replaced with healthy collagen which improves the overall texture and color.
Check with your doctor to see how long you should wait before beginning laser treatment. Laser treatments are expensive. If you go with this treatment, you’ll likely need two or more sessions over the course of a few months.
Surgical scar revision
Scar revision surgery is an option if you want your scar to be closer in tone and texture to your normal skin. Your doctor may use a combination of topical treatments, minimally invasive procedures, and surgical revision. You’ll still be able to see the scar, but it will be less noticeable.
As with laser treatment, you should check with your doctor to see how long you should wait after your tummy tuck to have scar revision surgery. They may advise you to wait at least a year so you can see how your scar has healed over time first.
Costs for this procedure vary.
Punch grafts
Punch grafting is a technique where a small hole is made in skin using a small tool. The scar is removed and replaced with new skin from another place on your body, usually from behind your ear. You will still have a scar, but it will be smoother and less noticeable.
The bottom line
It’s important to take into account that a tummy tuck will leave you with a permanent scar. Think about why you are having a tummy tuck and what results you want to get from it. If the intended results outweigh the disadvantages of having a scar, then it will probably be worth it.
You can also think about the possibilities for scar reduction. Take steps before and after surgery to facilitate a healthy healing process so that the scarring is as minimal as possible.
Learn more: Should you get a tummy tuck after a cesarean delivery? »
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN on May 18, 2017 — Written by Emily Cronkleton
More in Your Look, Your Way
Should You Get a Tummy Tuck After a C-Section?
‘Tummy Tuck’ Surgery Could Help Resolve Postpartum Back Pain and Incontinence
View all
READ THIS NEXT
Tummy Tuck Recovery: Timeline, Tips, and More
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
If you're getting a tummy tuck, it's important to give your body time to heal afterward. Here's what to expect during recovery.
READ MORE
Liposuction vs. Tummy Tuck: Which Option Is Better?
Medically reviewed by Catherine Hannan, MD
Liposuction and tummy tucks are both said to make your stomach appear flatter, tighter, and smaller — but at what cost? Here are the pros and cons of…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 121543 Client Version: 5af65d9698535e6d0254acdb42b8098a2b2c5b6e Build Number: 26722