Where did that cough come from? - CentraCare Health, Central Minnesota
Skip to Content
CentraCare Locations
Emergency
Urgent Care
Specialty Clinics
All Locations
About Us
Quality Measures
Foundation
Employment
Search Site
Main Navigation
Providers
Services
Locations
Patients & Visitors
Classes & Events
Wellness
View Additional Section Content
Where did that cough come from?
You are here:
Home > For the Health of It > Where did that cough come from?
Published on February 23, 2016
Where did that cough come from?
Jill Amsberry, DO, Pediatrician
CentraCare Clinic - Health Plaza Pediatrics
It’s 2 a.m. You thought it was just a little cold. Now your child has a horrible cough. Could it be croup?
What is croup?
Inflammation of the upper airway, including the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea), typically caused by a virus.
Most common in children ages 3 months to 5 years old.
Mainly seen in the fall and winter.
Symptoms
Cough characterized by its barking sound (like that of a barking seal) that is worse at night.
Hoarse voice because of the inflammation of the area around the vocal cords.
Stridor, which is a harsh and raspy sound when the child breathes in, is a more serious symptom and requires evaluation.
Fever, typically low grade but occasionally can reach temperatures up to 104F.
Home remedies
Sit with your child in the bathroom while running a hot shower. After about 10-15 minutes of exposure to this warm steam, your child’s symptoms should improve.
Put a cool mist humidifier in your child’s room.
Bundle up your child and go out into the cold night air.
Use medication such as a fever reducer to help with fever.
Keep your child as calm and comfortable as possible. Crying makes this barking cough sound worse.
Keep your child hydrated by continuing to offer clear liquids.
Do not use cough syrups or antihistamines. They do not help children with croup.
Treatments
Your doctor may give your child a steroid by shot or liquid to help with inflammation.
Antibiotics are not helpful in the treatment of croup because it not caused by a bacterial infection.
Call your health care provider or seek immediate care if your child has:
difficulty breathing
stridor, a high pitched noise when breathing in
pale or bluish color around the mouth
difficulty speaking because she cannot catch her breath
an ill or worried appearance
has not improved after the third day of symptoms
When in doubt, call your child’s health care provider. For the most part, most cases of croup are mild. Your child may return to school or daycare once the fever has resolved and your child is ready to participate in daily activities. Frequent hand washing and avoidance of others with upper respiratory infections is the best prevention.
Health information accessed through www.centracare.com is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. We strive to present reliable, up-to-date health information on our web site and “For the Health of It” blog. However, this information is not intended for the purpose of diagnosing or prescribing. Please contact your health care provider if you have any concerns or questions about specific content that may affect your health. Log in to MyChart to send a secure message to your provider.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
About the Author
Jill Amsberry, D.O.
Pediatrician
CentraCare Clinic - Health Plaza Pediatrics
Learn more about Dr. Amsberry
Also by this Author
Influenza vaccination Q&A October 4, 2018
A parents guide for surviving colic December 23, 2016
4 tips to help prepare your child for ‘the new baby’ February 9, 2016
Who’s afraid of the big, bad doctor? January 5, 2016
Managing your child’s cold symptoms December 17, 2015
Share This Post
Related Posts
Influenza vaccination Q&A October 4, 2018
A parents guide for surviving colic December 23, 2016
4 tips to help prepare your child for ‘the new baby’ February 9, 2016
View More
Contact Us
For Professionals
For Vendors
Family Medicine Residency
Pricing & Financial Assistance
Privacy Policy
Nondiscrimination Notice