Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) - Treatment - NHS
Skip to main content
NHS homepage
Menu
Search
Search the NHS website
Search
Close search
Menu
Close menu
Home
Health A-Z
Live Well
Care and support
Health news
Services near you
Home
Health A to Z
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD)
Back to Seasonal affective disorder (SAD)
Treatment - Seasonal affective disorder (SAD)
Contents
Overview
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
A number of treatments are available for seasonal affective disorder (SAD), including cognitive behavioural therapy, antidepressants and light therapy.
Your GP will recommend the most suitable treatment option for you, based on the nature and severity of your symptoms. This may involve using a combination of treatments to get the best results.
NICE recommendations
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends that SAD should be treated in the same way as other types of depression.
This includes using talking treatments such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) or medication such as antidepressants.
Light therapy is also a popular treatment for SAD, although NICE says it's not clear whether it's effective.
See NICE guidance about the treatment and management of depression in adults.
Things you can try yourself
There are a number of simple things you can try that may help improve your symptoms, including:
try to get as much natural sunlight as possible – even a brief lunchtime walk can be beneficial
make your work and home environments as light and airy as possible
sit near windows when you're indoors
take plenty of regular exercise, particularly outdoors and in daylight – read more about exercise for depression
eat a healthy, balanced diet
if possible, avoid stressful situations and take steps to manage stress
It can also be helpful to talk to your family and friends about SAD, so they understand how your mood changes during the winter. This can help them to support you more effectively.
Psychosocial treatments
Psychosocial treatments focus on both psychological aspects (how your brain functions) and social aspects (how you interact with others).
Cognitive behavioural therapy
Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is based on the idea that the way we think and behave affects the way we feel. Changing the way you think about situations and what you do about them can help you feel better.
If you have CBT, you'll have a number of sessions with a specially trained therapist, usually over several weeks or months. Your programme could be:
an individual programme of self-help
a programme designed for you and your partner (if your depression is affecting your relationship)
a group programme that you complete with other people in a similar situation
a computer-based CBT programme tailored to your needs and supported by a trained therapist
Read more about CBT.
Counselling and psychodynamic psychotherapy
Counselling is another type of talking therapy that involves talking to a trained counsellor about your worries and problems.
During psychodynamic psychotherapy you discuss how you feel about yourself and others and talk about experiences in your past. The aim of the sessions is to find out whether anything in your past is affecting how you feel today.
It's not clear exactly how effective these 2 therapies are in treating depression.
Read more about psychotherapy.
Antidepressants
Antidepressants are often prescribed to treat depression and are also sometimes used to treat severe cases of SAD, although the evidence to suggest they're effective in treating SAD is limited.
Antidepressants are thought to be most effective if taken at the start of winter before symptoms appear, and continued until spring.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the preferred type of antidepressant for treating SAD. They increase the level of the hormone serotonin in your brain, which can help lift your mood.
If you're prescribed antidepressants, you should be aware that:
it can take up to 4 to 6 weeks for the medication to take full effect
you should take the medication as prescribed and continue taking it until advised to gradually stop by your doctor
some antidepressants have side effects and may interact with other types of medication you're taking
Common side effects of SSRIs include feeling agitated, shaky or anxious, an upset stomach and diarrhoea or constipation. Check the information leaflet that comes with your medication for a full list of possible side effects.
Read more about antidepressants.
Light therapy
Some people with SAD find that light therapy can help improve their mood considerably. This involves sitting by a special lamp called a light box, usually for around 30 minutes to an hour each morning.
Light boxes come in a variety of designs, including desk lamps and wall-mounted fixtures. They produce a very bright light. The intensity of the light is measured in lux – the higher lux, the brighter the light.
Dawn-stimulating alarm clocks, which gradually light up your bedroom as you wake up, may also be useful for some people.
The light produced by the light box simulates the sunlight that's missing during the darker winter months.
It's thought the light may improve SAD by encouraging your brain to reduce the production of melatonin (a hormone that makes you sleepy) and increase the production of serotonin (a hormone that affects your mood).
Who can use light therapy?
Most people can use light therapy safely. The recommended light boxes have filters that remove harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays, so there's no risk of skin or eye damage for most people.
However, exposure to very bright light may not be suitable if you:
have an eye condition or eye damage that makes your eyes particularly sensitive to light
are taking medication that increases your sensitivity to light, such as certain antibiotics and antipsychotics, or the herbal supplement St. John's Wort
Speak to your GP if you're unsure about the suitability of a particular product.
Trying light therapy
Light boxes aren't usually available on the NHS, so you'll need to buy one yourself if you want to try light therapy.
Before using a light box, you should check the manufacturer's information and instructions regarding:
whether the product is suitable for treating SAD
the light intensity you should be using
the recommended length of time you need to use the light
Make sure that you choose a light box that is medically approved for the treatment of SAD and produced by a fully certified manufacturer.
Does light therapy work?
There's mixed evidence regarding the overall effectiveness of light therapy, but some studies have concluded it is effective, particularly if used first thing in the morning.
It's thought that light therapy is best for producing short-term results. This means it may help relieve your symptoms when they occur, but you might still be affected by SAD next winter.
When light therapy has been found to help, most people noticed an improvement in their symptoms within a week or so.
Side effects of light therapy
It's rare for people using light therapy to have side effects. However, some people may experience:
agitation or irritability
headaches or eye strain
sleeping problems (avoiding light therapy during the evening may help prevent this)
tiredness
blurred vision
These side effects are usually mild and short-lived, but you should visit your GP if you experience any particularly troublesome side effects while using light therapy.
Page last reviewed: 30/07/2018
Next review due: 30/07/2021
Previous : Diagnosis
NHS homepage
NHS sites
About us
Contact us
Profile editor login
Sitemap
Accessibility
Our policies
Cookies
© Crown Copyright
Check here for alerts