Environment, Nutrition and Human Health: Selenium, Brazil Nuts and Testosterone
Environment, Nutrition and Human Health
How the environment, diet, exercise, parasites and other factors influence human health
Pages
Environment and Health
Designs by Science
WODMasters
Designs by WODMasters
Sunday, May 1, 2011
Selenium, Brazil Nuts and Testosterone
There seems to be a lot out in the popular press or online material that incresing selenium intake will increase a healthy man's testosterone production (example and example II from Forbes Magazine: what were they thinking?), but little, if anything, in the scientific literature to support that idea. (I like the scientificky approach used by that website, especially the graph that shows no effect, and no indication of variability in the data points). However, elevated testosterone, long term, will increase risk of testicular and prostate cancer. There has also been recent emphasis on consumption of brazil nuts as a natural source of selenium that will boost testosterone and increase virility.
Selenium is protective against prostate cancer, and good for testicular development (fetal period . . . sorry guys) and possibly protective against other oxidative-stress-induced ailments, testicular or not. On the other hand, selenium, at high concentrations can result in DNA damage, and thus increase risk of cancer. The problem with supplementing, either through tablets, or through consumption of a natural product high in selenium, is that we do not know where the lines of good and evil cross.
As for Brazil nuts, selenium concentrations in any plant should be dependent on the concentration of selenium in the soil in which it grows, therefore, the concentration of selenium in Brazil nuts probably varies. This turns out to be the case, with nuts grown in Manaus-Belem more than ten times higher in selenium than those grown in Acre-Rondia. Someone consuming Brazil nuts may or may not be making a significant increase in selenium intake.
Chang, J. (1995). Selenium content of Brazil nuts from two geographic locations in Brazil Chemosphere, 30 (4), 801-802 DOI: 10.1016/0045-6535(94)00409-N
ATIF, F., YOUSUF, S., & AGRAWAL, S. (2008). Restraint stress-induced oxidative damage and its amelioration with selenium European Journal of Pharmacology, 600 (1-3), 59-63 DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2008.09.029
Brozmanová J, Mániková D, Vlčková V, & Chovanec M (2010). Selenium: a double-edged sword for defense and offence in cancer. Archives of toxicology, 84 (12), 919-38 PMID: 20871980
Henderson, B. (2000). Hormonal carcinogenesis Carcinogenesis, 21 (3), 427-433 DOI: 10.1093/carcin/21.3.427
Posted by ABKirk at 3:25 PM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Nutrition
4 comments:
Anonymous May 6, 2011 at 12:06 PM
I would be that is you click psorisisfood there will be some website promoting something of questionable value.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
maggie.danhakl@healthline.com July 31, 2014 at 11:27 AM
Hi,
Healthline just designed a virtual guide explaining how testosterone affects the body. You can see the infographic here: http://www.healthline.com/health/low-testosterone/effects-on-body
This is valuable med-reviewed information that can help a man understand how affects multiple parts of their bodies and the side effects that occur from having low testosterone. I thought this would be of interest to your audience, and I’m writing to see if you would include this as a resource on your page: http://hmunca.blogspot.com/2011/05/selenium-brazil-nuts-and-testosterone.html
If you do not believe this would be a good fit for a resource on your site, even sharing this on your social communities would be a great alternative to help get the word out.
Thanks so much for taking the time to review. Please let me know your thoughts and if I can answer any questions for you.
All the best,
Maggie Danhakl • Assistant Marketing Manager
p: 415-281-3124 f: 415-281-3199
Healthline • The Power of Intelligent Health
660 Third Street, San Francisco, CA 94107
www.healthline.com | @Healthline | @HealthlineCorp
About Us: corp.healthline.com
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
mind.it November 8, 2016 at 6:20 AM
Excellent information on your blog, thank you for taking the time to share with us. Amazing insight you have on this, it's nice to find a website that details so much information about different artists. buy spartagen xt online
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
jackjohnny April 3, 2019 at 5:42 AM
Excellent work done by you once again here. This is just the reason why I’ve always liked your work. You have amazing writing skills and you display them in every article. Keep it going! https://testomax-results.com/11-testosterone-effects-on-men/
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Search This Blog
Follow by Email
WODMasters Blue Shoulders Shirt Design
click for store
Skate Shirts, Mugs, More
Designs by Science supports our site.
Mocha
Caffeine and Theobromine Mugs
The Author
View my complete profile
Stiff Fish from Science
Click to view
Designs by Science: Coffee
Coffee, also Chocolate and Mocha
Big Bat Shit by WODMasters
WODMasters supports this site. Click for store
Blue Octopus
Click to view designs
Popular Posts
Selenium, Brazil Nuts and Testosterone
There seems to be a lot out in the popular press or online material that incresing selenium intake will increase a healthy man's testost...
Did Intestinal parasites and poor hygiene protect us from autoimmune diseases?
Autoimmune diseases are troubling, and often frustrating and painful for health care practitioners and patients. As far as I know, celiac d...
Schistosomiasis may be protective against Auto-Immune Disease
Following up here on the associations between parasite infection and reduced incidence of autoimmune diseases such as diabetes, thyroid diso...
Ketogenic Diets
I would advocate moderation in just about everything. Ketogenic diets have proven helpful to people with uncontrolled epilepsy and may be o...
"The Demon, Gluten"
The fear of gluten, for most people, may be the "fear of the moment," with 25% of the population concerned about gluten intake (A...
Crossfit and the Search for the Perfect Diet: Aboriginal Australians and the Swiss
Perusing Google News this morning I came across an article claiming that " Research Shows CrossFit Diet/Exercise Reduces Risk of Hea...
About Correlations: Alcohol and Diabetes/BPA and Endocrine Disruption
From a purely health-oriented perspective, alcohol is one of those things where a little seems to be good and more than a little puts you a...
Triclosan induces hypothyroidism and is transfered to infants during lactation.
Triclosan is used in many personal care products as an anti-bacterial agent. You can find it in soaps, toothpaste etc. It is also an endoc...
Response to a friend on significance of Triclosan in drinking water
Sorry Friend. That was a poor response to your question about the significance of Triclosan following news of the chemical as an androgen bl...
This week's topic is Androgen/Estrogen Disruption
Could write a book here, but will be brief for now. First listen to (and watch if you want) this clip: Tone setting music . Endocrine dis...
Archive
Archive Sep (1) Aug (1) May (3) Nov (2) Jun (1) May (1) Feb (1) Jan (4) Dec (6) Nov (3) Oct (1) Sep (1) Jul (1) Jun (1) Apr (2) Feb (4) Jan (5)
Awesome Inc. theme. Theme images by johnwoodcock. Powered by Blogger.