Naproxen (Aleve) Side Effects, Dosage & Interactions
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/migraine health center/migraine a-z list/naproxen article
naproxen
What is naproxen, and how does it work (mechanism of action)?
What are the uses for naproxen?
What are the side effects of naproxen?
What is the dosage for naproxen?
Which drugs or supplements interact with naproxen?
Is naproxen safe to take if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
What else should I know about naproxen?
Pharmacy Author: Omudhome Ogbru, PharmD
Omudhome Ogbru, PharmD
Dr. Ogbru received his Doctorate in Pharmacy from the University of the Pacific School of Pharmacy in 1995. He completed a Pharmacy Practice Residency at the University of Arizona/University Medical Center in 1996. He was a Professor of Pharmacy Practice and a Regional Clerkship Coordinator for the University of the Pacific School of Pharmacy from 1996-99.
Medical and Pharmacy Editor: Jay W. Marks, MD
Jay W. Marks, MD
Jay W. Marks, MD, is a board-certified internist and gastroenterologist. He graduated from Yale University School of Medicine and trained in internal medicine and gastroenterology at UCLA/Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
A Visual Guide to Migraine Headaches Slideshow
Headache and Migraine Triggers Slideshow
Take the Migraines Quiz
What is naproxen, and how does it work (mechanism of action)?
What are the uses for naproxen?
What are the side effects of naproxen?
What is the dosage for naproxen?
Which drugs or supplements interact with naproxen?
Is naproxen safe to take if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
What else should I know about naproxen?
What is naproxen, and how does it work (mechanism of action)?
Naproxen belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other members of this class include ibuprofen (Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), nabumetone (Relafen) and several others. These drugs are used for the management of mild to moderate pain, fever, and inflammation. They work by reducing the levels of prostaglandins, chemicals that are responsible for pain, fever, and inflammation. Naproxen blocks the enzyme that makes prostaglandins (cyclooxygenase), resulting in lower concentrations of prostaglandins. As a consequence, inflammation, pain and fever are reduced. Naproxen was approved by the FDA in December 1991.
What are the uses for naproxen?
Naproxen is used for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, inflammation, and fever.
What are the side effects of naproxen?
The most common side effects from naproxen are:
rash,
ringing in the ears,
headaches,
dizziness,
drowsiness, abdominal pain, nausea,
diarrhea,
constipation,
heartburn,
fluid retention, and
shortness of breath.
Other important side effects include:
fluid retention,
blood clots,
heart attacks,
hypertension, and
heart failure.
What is the dosage for naproxen?
The usual adult dose for pain is 250 every 6 to 8 hours or 500 mg twice daily using regular naproxen tablets. The usual dose for Naprelan controlled release tablets is 750 to 1000 mg given once daily. For EC-Naprosyn, the usual dose is 375-500 mg twice daily.
Naproxen should be given with food to reduce upset stomach. The dose for rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis is 500 to 1000 mg every 12 hours. Dysmenorrhea is treated with 250 mg every 6 to 8 hours after an initial dose of 500 mg.
Daily Health News
Is Flu's Spread Under Control?
First Non-Drug Therapy for ADHD
'Superbugs' in Hospital Rooms
Opioid Overdose Nasal Spray
Blood Pressure Limits for Kids
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID)
Listeria (Listeriosis)
Food Poisoning
Whooping Cough and Vaccine
Measles (Rubeola)
Which drugs or supplements interact with naproxen?
Naproxen is associated with several suspected or probable interactions that affect the action of other drugs. The following examples are the most common suspected interactions.
Naproxen may increase the blood levels of lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) by reducing the excretion of lithium by the kidneys. Increased levels of lithium may lead to lithium toxicity.
Naproxen may reduce the blood pressure lowering effects of blood pressure medications. This may occur because prostaglandins play a role in the regulation of blood pressure.
When naproxen is used in combination with methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) or aminoglycosides (for example, gentamicin) the blood levels of the methotrexate or aminoglycoside may increase, presumably because the elimination from the body of these drugs is reduced. This may lead to more methotrexate or aminoglycoside-related side effects.
Individuals taking anticoagulants, for example, warfarin, (Coumadin), should avoid naproxen because naproxen also thins the blood, and excessive blood thinning may lead to bleeding.
Naproxen increases the negative effect of cyclosporine on kidney function and reduces the effect of furosemide (Lasix) and thiazide diuretics because of prostaglandin inhibition.
Naproxen should be avoided by patients with a history of asthma attacks, hives or other allergic reactions to aspirin or other NSAIDs. If aspirin is taken with naproxen there may be an increased risk for developing an ulcer.
Persons who have more than 3 alcoholic beverages per day may be at increased risk of developing stomach ulcers when taking naproxen or other NSAIDs.
Is naproxen safe to take if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
NSAIDs may cause a fetal birth defect called ductus arteriosus (early closure of two major blood vessels of the heart and lung) in the third trimester of pregnancy. Therefore, NSAIDs should be avoided during this last part of pregnancy.
A small amount of naproxen is excreted in breast milk. Because the concentration in breast milk is low, breastfeeding while taking naproxen probably is not harmful to the infant.
What else should I know about naproxen?
Preparations
Anaprox (tablets): 275 and 550 mg
Naprosyn (tablets): 250, 375 and 500 mg
Naprosyn suspension: 125 mg/5ml
EC-Naprosyn: 375 mg
Aleve: 220 mg
Naprelan (controlled-release tablets): 375 and 500 mg.
Storage
Naproxen should be stored at room temperature: 15 C to 30 C (59 F to 86 F).
Brand names
Anaprox, Naprelan, Naprosyn, Aleve, Mediproxen are the brand names available for naproxen in the US.
Prescription or nonprescription
Aleve is available over-the-counter (OTC, without a prescription), but the other brand names require a prescription from a doctor or other healthcare professional.
Subscribe to MedicineNet's General Health Newsletter
By clicking Submit, I agree to the MedicineNet's Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet's subscriptions at any time.
Summary
Naproxen (Aleve, Anaprox, Naprelan, Naprosyn) is in the class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Naproxen is prescribed for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, inflammation, and fever. Side effects, drug interactions, and pregnancy information should be reviewed prior to taking this medication.
Multimedia: Slideshows, Images & Quizzes
Low Back Pain: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Relief
Do you suffer from low back pain? Watch this slideshow to see common triggers of lower back pain and what kind of treatments you...
Fibromyalgia Symptoms, Diagnosis & Treatment
What is fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition that causes pain and stiffness of the tendons, muscles, and joints....
Sciatica Symptoms, Causes, Treatments
Sciatica pain radiates from the lower back toward the feet. Sciatica may feel like a cramp in the leg, burning, tingling, pins...
Ankylosing Spondylitis Quiz: Symptoms & Treatment
What is ankylosing spondylitis? Take this quiz to learn the causes, symptoms, and treatments for this painful disorder....
Gout Quiz: What is Gout? Is There a Gout Diet?
Learn what causes those painful crystals to form during a gout flare. Take the Gout Quiz to learn all about this painful...
Back Pain Quiz: Test Your Back Pain IQ
There are numerous causes of chronic lower back pain and only one ailment gets more complaints. What is it? Quiz your knowledge...
Headaches Quiz: Learn About Headache Pain
If you're plagued with headaches, our Headaches Quiz may help you identify causes, triggers, symptoms, and treatments for...
Fibromyalgia Quiz: What Is Fibromyalgia?
Fibromyalgia could be the reason for your constant, deep bodily pain. Learn more about this painful condition with the...
Pain Quiz: Test Your IQ of Pain
Is pain all in the brain? Take the Pain Quiz to learn everything you've ever wanted to know about the unpleasant sensation we...
Rheumatoid Arthritis Quiz: What is Rheumatoid Arthritis?
How is rheumatoid arthritis different from other forms of arthritis, such as osteoarthritis and gout? Take the Rheumatoid...
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS): Track and Prevent Symptoms
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) can cause from mood swings, munchies, and more. Learn about the symptoms, causes and treatments of...
Pain Management: 15 Easy Ways to Reduce Chronic Pain
Chronic pain can be a symptom of many conditions, including arthritis, headaches, and others. Comprehensive pain management...
Pain-Relief Tips for Bumps, Bruises, Sprains, and Strains in Pictures
View this First Aid slideshow on Care and Pain Relief. See how to get pain relief if you've bumped your head, sprained your...
Related Disease Conditions
Sore Throat Home Remedies (Soothe, Pain Relief)
Natural and home remedies for sore throat symptoms and pain relief include essential oils, licorice gargles, slippery elm...
Fever
Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not...
Endometriosis (Symptoms, Causes, Treatments, and Prognosis)
Endometriosis implants are most commonly found on the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, outer surfaces of the uterus or intestines,...
Headache
Headaches can be divided into two categories: primary headaches and secondary headaches. Migraine headaches, tension headaches,...
Shoulder and Neck Pain
Shoulder and neck pain may be caused by bursitis, a pinched nerve, whiplash, tendinitis, a herniated disc, or a rotator cuff...
Iliotibial Band Syndrome
Iliotibial band syndrome is an overuse injury of the thigh and knee. Symptoms include knee pain and possible swelling. Treatment...
Sciatica
Sciatica pain, caused by irritation of the sciatic nerve, typically radiates from the low back to behind the thigh to below the...
Lower Back Pain
There are many causes of back pain. Pain in the low back can relate to the bony lumbar spine, discs between the vertebrae,...
Foot Pain
Foot pain may be caused by injuries (sprains, strains, bruises, and fractures), diseases (diabetes, Hansen disease, and gout),...
Pinched Nerve
A pinched nerve causes pain, numbness, or tingling in the affected area due to pressure on a nerve. Caral tunnel and sciatica are...
Gout (Gouty Arthritis)
Buildup of uric acid crystals in a joint causes gouty arthritis. Symptoms and signs include joint pain, swelling, heat, and...
Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction (SI Joint Pain)
Sacroiliac joint (SI) dysfunction is a general term to reflect pain in the SI joints. Causes of SI joint pain include...
Temporomandibular Joint Syndrome (TMJ)
Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) syndrome is a disorder that causes symptoms like pain, clicking, and popping of the jaw. TMJ is...
Neck Pain (Cervical Pain)
Neck pain (cervical pain) may be caused by any number of disorders and diseases. Tenderness is another symptom of neck pain....
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes chronic inflammation of the joints, the tissue around the joints,...
Arthritis
Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. When joints are inflamed they can develop stiffness, warmth, swelling, redness...
Tension Headache (Symptoms, Relief, Causes, Treatment)
A tension headache s one of the most common types of headaches, and the exact cause is not known. Factors that may contribute to...
Menstruation (Menstrual Cycle)
Menstruation (menstrual cycle) is also referred to as a "period." When a woman menstruates, the lining of the uterus is shed....
Migraine Headache
Migraine headache is a type of headache associated with a sensitivity to light, smells, or sounds, eye pain, severe pounding on...
Osteoarthritis (OA)
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis caused by inflammation, breakdown, and eventual loss of cartilage in the joints. Also...
Knee Pain
Acute injuries, medical conditions, and chronic use conditions are causes of knee pain. Symptoms and signs that accompany knee...
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis that causes chronic inflammation of the spine. The tendency to develop ankylosing...
Peptic Ulcer (Stomach Ulcer)
Peptic or stomach ulcers are ulcers are an ulcer in the lining of the stomach, duodenum, or esophagus. Ulcer formation is related...
Chondromalacia Patella (Patellofemoral Syndrome)
Chondromalacia patella (housemaid's knee or secretary's knee) results from misalignment of the kneecap as it slides over the...
Hip Pain
Arthritis, bursitis, IT band syndrome, fracture, and strain are just some of the causes of hip pain. Associated symptoms and...
Toothache
A toothache is a pain on or around a tooth. It may be caused by a variety of things from a cavity, abscess, or even sinusitis....
Ankle Pain
Ankle pain is commonly due to a sprain or tendinitis. The severity of ankle sprains ranges from mild (which can resolve within...
Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS)
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a combination of physical and emotional disturbances that occur after a woman ovulates and ends...
Lupus (Systemic Lupus Erythematosus or SLE)
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a condition characterized by chronic inflammation of body tissues caused by autoimmune disease....
Torn ACL (Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tear)
The anterior cruciate ligament helps to prevent the top and bottom of the knee from sliding back and forth. Symptoms and signs of...
Hamstring Injury
Hamstring injuries may range from minor strains to major ruptures. A hamstring injury causes spasm, tightness, and tenderness....
Fibromyalgia
Fibromyalgia is a chronic pain condition characterized by symptoms such as fatigue, sleep disturbances, and tender points. Stress...
Occipital Neuralgia (Headache)
Occipital neuralgia is a type of headache that involves inflammation or irritation of occipital nerves. Signs and symptoms...
Bone Cancer
Bone cancer is a rare type of cancer that occurs in cells that make up the bones. Primary bone cancer that arises in bone cells...
Migraine vs. Headache: Differences and Similarities
Headaches are the most common reason why a person goes to the doctor or other healthcare professional for treatment. There are...
Costochondritis and Tietze Syndrome
Costochondritis is inflammation of the cartilage where the ribs attach to the sternum. Tietze syndrome affects the same region of...
Pericarditis (Symptoms, ECG, Types, Causes, Treatment)
Pericarditis is the inflammation of the pericardial sac that surrounds the heart. The causes of pericarditis include injury from...
Bursitis
A bursa is a fluid-filled sac found in the joints that cushions them. Bursitis is an inflammation of the bursae, most commonly...
Trigger Finger (Stenosing Tenosynovitis)
Trigger finger (stenosing tenosynovitis) is a condition in which a finger tries to snap closed while gripping. This painful...
Herniated Disc
A herniated disc may be caused by injury or degeneration from age. Symptoms depend on the location of the herniation and whether...
Bunions
The common bunion, an enlargement of the inner portion of the joint at the base of the big toe, primarily affects women. The...
Bruises
A bruise, or contusion, is caused when blood vessels are damaged or broken as the result of a blow to the skin. The raised area...
Knee Injury
Knee injuries, especially meniscus tears, are common in contact sports. Symptoms and signs of a torn meniscus include knee pain,...
Mastoiditis (Symptoms, Treatment, Cure in Adults and Children
Mastoiditis in children and adults is inflammation and/or infection of the mastoid bone, which is located behind the ear. The...
Sun-Sensitive Drugs (Photosensitivity to Drugs)
Sun sensitivity (photosensitivity) is an inflammation of the skin induced by the combination of medications or substances and...
DeQuervain&apos;s Tenosynovitis
DeQuervain's tenosynovitis is inflammation of the tendon on the side of the wrist at the base of the thumb. DeQuervain's...
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a disorder of the muscles and joints that causes pain and stiffness in the arms, neck, shoulders,...
Pain Management
Pain management and treatment can be simple or complex, according to its cause. There are two basic types of pain, nociceptive...
Elbow Pain
Elbow pain is most often the result of tendinitis, which can affect the inner or outer elbow. Treatment includes ice, rest, and...
Sprains and Strains
An injury to a ligament is called a sprain, and an injury to muscle or tendon is called a strain. Sprains and strains may be...
Chronic Pain
Chronic pain is pain (an unpleasant sense of discomfort) that persists or progresses over a long period of time. In contrast to...
Whiplash
Whiplash is a common injury to a person's neck following a car accident (in most cases). Symptoms include: headache, neck...
Cold and Cough Medicine for Infants and Children
The safety of giving infants and children over-the-counter (OTC) cold and cough medicine is important for caregivers to...
Still&apos;s Disease
Still's disease (systemic-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis) is a disorder characterized by inflammation with high fever...
Prostatitis vs. BPH (Enlarged Prostate) Differences and Similarities
Prostatitis and BPH (benign prostatic hyperplasia, enlarged prostate gland) are both conditions of the prostate gland. There...
Muscle Pain (Myofascial Pain Syndrome)
...
Cluster Headache
Cluster headaches are a type of headache that recurs over a period. Episodes can last one to three times a day during this time,...
Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis
Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH or Forestier's disease) is a form of degenerative arthritis. It is characterized...
Shingles and Pregnancy
Becoming infected with chickenpox during pregnancy could cause birth defects in your unborn child. Likewise, shingles could also...
Menstrual Cramps
Menstrual cramps (pain in the belly and pelvic area) are experienced by women as a result of menses. Menstrual cramps are not the...
Head and Neck Cancer
Head and neck cancer is cancer of the oral cavity, salivary glands, paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity, pharynx, larynx, or lymph...
Reactive Arthritis
Reactive arthritis is a chronic, systemic rheumatic disease characterized by three conditions, including conjunctivitis, joint...
Shin Splints
Shin splints result from inflammation from injury to the tendon and adjacent tissues in the front of the outer leg. Shin splints...
Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs and Ulcers
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are prescribed medications for the treatment of inflammatory conditions. Examples of...
Medial Collateral Ligament (MCL) Injury
The medial collateral ligament (MCL) is one of four ligaments that stabilize the knee. MCL injuries are referred to as tears or...
Cold, Flu, Allergy Treatments
Before treating a cold, the flu, or allergies with over-the-counter (OTC) medications, it's important to know what's causing the...
Menstrual Cramps and Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) Medication Guide
Menstrual cramps and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms include abdominal cramping, bloating, a feeling of fullness, abdominal...
Relapsing Polychondritis
Relapsing polychondritis is an uncommon, chronic disorder of the cartilage that is characterized by recurrent episodes of...
Laryngitis Home Remedies (in Adults and Children)
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the larynx. Inflammation of the larynx is most often caused by viral infections, and have...
SAPHO Syndrome
SAPHO syndrome is a chronic disorder that involves the skin, bone, and joints. SAPHO syndrome is an eponym for the combination of...
Reye Syndrome
Reye's syndrome (RS or Reye syndrome) is a sudden, sometimes fatal, disease of the brain with degeneration of the liver. Reye...
Kawasaki Disease
Kawasaki disease is a rare children's disease characterized by a fever that lasts more than five days and at least four of the...
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis)
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or JRA) annually affects one child in every thousand. There are six...
Tennis Elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis)
Tennis elbow is also known as lateral epicondylitis. Symptoms of tennis elbow include tenderness and dull pain of the outer...
Pain Management: Musculoskeletal Pain
Natural menopause is the permanent ending of menstruation that is not brought on by any type of medical treatment. For women...
Bernard-Soulier Disease (Giant Platelet Syndrome)
Bernard-Soulier disease is a rare inherited bleeding disorder caused by a defect in the platelet glycoprotein complex 1b-IX-V....
Pain Management: Neuropathic Pain
Neuropathic pain is chronic pain resulting from injury to the nervous system. The injury can be to the central nervous system...
Treatment & Diagnosis
Procedures & Tests Symptoms & Signs FAQs & Doctor's Views
Liver Blood Tests (Normal, Low, and High Ranges & Results)
Root Canal
Trigger Point Injection
Toe Pain
Hand Pain
Finger Pain
Arm Pain
Joint Pain
Wrist Pain
Chills
Ankle Pain
Stiff Neck
Foot Pain
Joint Cracking (Joint Popping)
Hip Pain
Swollen Ankles and/or Swollen Feet
Elbow Pain
Lower Back Pain
Shoulder Pain
Coccydynia
Toothache
Joint Stiffness
Jaw Pain
Unsteady Gait
Limping
Tightness in Chest
Menstrual Cramps
Headache
Heel Pain
Knee Pain
Neck Pain (Cervicalgia)
Swollen Joints
Joint Redness
Fever
Swollen Knee
Sore Throat (Pharyngitis)
Joint Warmth
Endometriosis
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
PMS (Premenstrual Syndrome)
Psoriatic Arthritis
Gout
Bursitis
Doctor: Checklist to Take To Your Doctor's Appointment
Ankylosing Spondylitis (Bechterew's Disease)
Osteoarthritis
Burn
Encephalitis
Repetitive Motion Disorder
Sprained Ankle
Tennis Elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis)
Headaches FAQs
Fibromyalgia FAQs
Gout FAQs
Rheumatoid Arthritis FAQs
Back Pain FAQs
Pain FAQs
Ankylosing Spondylitis FAQs
Drugs: The Most Common Medication Errors
Medication Disposal
Dangers of Mixing Medications
Pain Management Over-The-Counter
How To Reduce Your Medication Costs
Pharmacy Visit, How To Get The Most Out of Your Visit
Indications for Drugs: Approved vs. Non-approved
Drugs: Buying Prescription Drugs Online Safely
Home Remedies for Shingles
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA): 17 Warning Signs of Serious Complications
Osteoarthritis of the Hands
Home Remedies, Treatment, and Prevention of Sprains and Strains
Herbs: Toxicities and Drug Interactions
Pain Relievers and High Blood Pressure
Generic Drugs, Are They as Good as Brand-Names?
Medications & Supplements
Medications FDA Drug Labels on RxList.com
Nonsteroidal Antiinflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs)
meloxicam (Mobic) Side Effects
celecoxib (Celebrex)
ibuprofen (Advil, Children's Advil/Motrin, Medipren, Motrin, Nuprin, PediaCare Fever, and others)
indomethacin, Indocin, Indocin-SR (Discontinued Brand in U.S.)
nabumetone
Drugs: Questions to Ask Your Doctor or Pharmacist about Your Drugs
Drug Interactions
erenumab (Aimovig)
Aspirin vs. NSAIDs (Side Effect and Use Differences)
flurbiprofen (Ansaid)
phenylbutazone, Butazolidine
ketoprofen
Aspirin vs. Aleve (Naproxen)
fenoprofen, Nalfon
OTC Pain Relievers and Fever Reducers
oxaprozin, Daypro
salsalate, Amigesic, Salflex, Argesic-SA, Marthritic, Salsitab, Artha-G
choline magnesium salicylate, Trilisate
Naprosyn
Soma
Frova
Treximet
Naprelan
Savella
Neoral
Prevention & Wellness
Health News
Many Migraine Sufferers Given Unecessary Opioids, Study Finds
Marathon Running May Cause Short-Term Kidney Injury
Drug No Better Than Placebo for Lower Back, Leg Pain
Valium May Be Useless for Acute Lower Back Pain
Try Drug-Free Options First for Low Back Pain, New Guidelines Say
Common Painkillers Don't Ease Back Pain, Study Finds
Celebrex May Not Pose Bigger Heart Risk Than Similar Drugs: Study
Number of Americans With Severe Joint Pain Keeps Rising
Could Prescribed NSAID Painkillers Raise Heart Failure Risk?
Over 100 Drugs Pose Risk to Heart Failure Patients
Beware of Bleeding Risks With Antacids Containing Aspirin
Acetaminophen Won't Help Arthritis Pain, Study Finds
Many Chronic Pain Sufferers May Overuse Nonprescription Painkillers
New Drug for Severe Form of Arthritis Shows Promise in Trial
Prescription Naproxen as Good as Narcotic Painkillers for Low Back Pain: Study
Slow Progress on Curbing Wasteful, 'Low-Value' Health Care Practices: Study
'Tennis Elbow' Usually Heals Without Therapy, Study Finds
Low-Dose Aspirin, Other Painkillers May Lower Colon Cancer Risk
Are We Taking Some Medicines for Too Long?
Antidepressant, Painkiller Combo May Raise Risk of Brain Bleed
FDA Strengthens Warning on NSAIDs and Heart Risk
FDA Strengthens Heart Attack, Stroke Warning for Popular Painkillers
Could These Common Pain-Relievers Lower Fertility?
Many Migraine Sufferers Given Narcotic Painkillers, Barbiturates
Blood Thinner Warfarin May Pose Greater Bleeding Risk for Obese: Study
Certain Painkillers May Lower Colon Cancer Risk for Some
Ways to Treat Depression That Aren't Antidepressants
Certain Painkillers Ill-Advised After Heart Attack: Study
Study Rates Migraine Medications
Knee Arthritis Drugs Beat Placebos, but Study Finds No Clear Winner
Some Painkillers Tied to Bleeding Risk in Those With Abnormal Heartbeat
Certain Painkillers Tied to Raised Risk of Death After Stroke
Common Painkillers Tied to Blood Clot Risk, Study Suggests
More Painkillers May Raise Heart Risks for Older Women: Review
Drug Shows Promise Against Arthritis Common in People with Psoriasis
Use Prescription Painkillers Safely
Daily Aspirin May Guard Against Ovarian Cancer
Ibuprofen, Aleve Won't Raise Miscarriage Risk: Study
Avoiding That New Year's Hangover
Most Medications OK During Breast-Feeding, Report Says
FDA Warns of Rare Skin Reactions to Acetaminophen
Common Painkillers Tied to Kidney Risks for Children: Study
Health Tip: Taking Medications During Pregnancy
Common Painkillers May Be Risky After Heart Attack
Can Aspirin, Other NSAIDs Lower Skin Cancer Risk?
Two-Drug Combo Helps Teens With Migraines
Scientists Spot How Cox-2 Painkillers Raise Heart Risks
Migraine Guidelines Focus on Prevention
Merck to Pay $950M to Settle Probe of Vioxx Marketing
Long-Term Painkiller Use Linked to Kidney Cancer
NSAIDs May Raise Miscarriage Risk: Study
NSAID Pain Relievers Raise Heart Risks
Acetaminophen: Teen Asthma Trigger?
Pain Relievers May Reduce Cancer Risk
From
Migraines and Headaches Resources
Basics to Help Prevent Migraines
Managing Opioids
What Are Chronic Migraines?
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration
You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
See more info: naproxen on RxList
Medically Reviewed on 2/27/2019
References
REFERENCE:
FDA Prescribing Information
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth