Anemia | babyMed.com
Skip to main content
Quizzes
Pregnancy Week By Week
Ovulation Calculator
Due Date Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
babyMed Guides
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Tools & Calculators
Postpartum & Baby
Log In
Sign Up
Quizzes
Pregnancy Week By Week
Ovulation Calculator
Due Date Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Subscribe
babyMed Guides
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Tools & Calculators
Postpartum & Baby
Log In
Sign Up
Search
×
Search
Tags » Anemia
Anemia
Is it Okay to Diet During Pregnancy?
For some women, the worries about pregnancy weight may cause her to diet. It is unsafe to diet in pregnancy, though weight loss is not dangerous in some cases, as was once thought. ... read more »
Childhood Anemia at High Altitude
According to researchers and authors from Harvard Medical School, children at high altitude are at increased risk of severe disease and anemia than children raised at lower altitudes. The study was published in the October 7, 2013 edition of Pediatrics online. ... read more »
Iron/Zinc Combination May be Beneficial for Pregnant Women
Some pregnant women receive iron supplements during pregnancy to treat or prevent anemia, but researchers in Ghana believe patients with anemia that do not respond to iron supplementation may benefit from supplemental zinc. ... read more »
Treating Pregnancy Anemia with Oral Iron Versus Iron Sucrose
IDA or iron deficiency anemia is common during pregnancy. Treating pregnant women with iron supplements is a viable option to reduce or cure the anemia and prevent negative side effects on the pregnancy, fetus and mother. ... read more »
Three Minutes to Improved Iron Levels
When clamping the umbilical cord, doctors should wait a full three minutes after birth to reduce the risk of iron deficiency later in life. A study published in BMJ supports waiting to clamp the umbilical cord. ... read more »
Iron (Serum) During Pregnancy
The serum iron test simply measures the amount of iron in the blood. Iron is needed to produce red blood cells. The body will store excess iron for use when food sources of iron don't provide enough during any given period. ... read more »
Six Energy-Alternatives During Pregnancy
There are many other healthy ways besides consuming caffeine to gain energy. Read on to learn six caffeine-free energy-boosting strategies that you can practice to ensure a healthy pregnancy. ... read more »
Red Cell Distribution Width During Pregnancy
Red cell distribution width is a measurement of variation between red blood cells sizes. There should be an even distribution of immature and mature /small and large red blood cells. ... read more »
Effect of Iron Deficiency Anemia in Pregnancy
Does iron deficiency anemia (IDA) during pregnancy affect the mental development of the fetus? Researchers from United Nations Children'sFund Office for China recently completed a study claims there is aconnection between the two. ... read more »
Daily or Intermittent Iron Supplement During Pregnancy?
Iron deficiency is a potential health issue for many pregnant women. Iron supplements are often ordered to prevent or treat iron deficiency and/or anemia associated with iron deficiency. ... read more »
Fetal Anemia and Cord Blood Malaria in HIV-Positive Moms
Pregnancy with HIV can change the dynamic of pregnancy and may be associated with negative pregnancy and fetal outcomes, including increased risk of fetal anemia and cord blood malaria parasitemia. ... read more »
The Effective Drug for Children with Sickle Cell Anemia
Sickle cell anemia is a nasty disorder that can be diagnosed at birth and during adulthood. It’s characterized by a reduced red blood cell count and oddly shaped blood cells. ... read more »
High-Risk Pregnancy - Maternal
Maternal causes of a high-risk pregnancy ... read more »
Anemia During Pregnancy
Anemia is defined as not having enough red blood cells. During pregnancy, blood is usually tested at the first prenatal visit and then again at the beginning of the third trimester. ... read more »
You Can be Iron Man Without Daily Supplements
Iron supplements are typically given to women who suffer from anemia during pregnancy. Anemia is a condition characterized by low blood iron levels. ... read more »
Postpartum Hemorrhage
Postpartum hemorrhage or bleeding is defined as the loss of more than 500 mL of blood after delivery. Postpartum hemorrhage occurs in up to 1 in 5 births. ... read more »
Share:
Popular on Babymed
Sign Up for Fertility or Pregnancy Alerts!
Get Your Fertility 101 Course!
Due Date Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Pregnancy & Fertility Guides
How to Get Pregnant Faster
Early Pregnancy Symptoms
Pregnancy Week by Week
From Our Sponsors
Meet Dr. Amos
Dr. Amos Grunebaum, MD, FACOG is a Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and among the world's leading authorities on fertility and pregnancy. Dr. Amos has delivered more than 5,000 babies, and supervised more than 20,000 deliveries.
Only babyMed gets it right!
Read Dr. Amos' full bio.
About Us
Advertise With Us
Topics & Keywords
Acronyms
Help
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Site Map
Contact Us
© 2001-2019 BabyMed.com - All Rights Reserved.