Light Therapy Review | Archive | February 2017
Light Therapy Review
Red light therapy, light therapy products, light therapy reviews
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Home/
Archives / February 2017
Archives For February 2017
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
It’s that time of the year when our skin just can’t quite figure out what’s going on. At the start of your week it’s warm and sunny – your face is soaking up all that vitamin D. The sun makes you feel rejuvenated, youthful, and is actually providing you with physical benefits such as clearing acne. Then Wednesday rolls around and it’s freezing again, your skin couldn’t possibly absorb any more moisturizer, and your lips actually hurt to touch. By Friday it’s pouring rain, your makeup is running down your cheeks, and your acne is here to stay. This time of year is far from easy on our skin.
The key to perfect, acne and blemish free skin is consistency and health awareness. Eat well, wash your face every night, frequently change your pillow case, get plenty of vitamin D, then repeat. It’s hard to naturally find the right balance between all of these necessities, let alone actually add all of them to your daily routine. It’s okay to seek some extra help. Light therapy is that helping hand that anyone struggling with acne needs!
What Is Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using different forms of light to help reduce and/or treat a wide array of conditions and disorders. Dermatologists have been using light therapy on their patients for awhile now. And now, thanks to the convenience of new light therapy products, you can also use the treatment at home. During these tough winter months, light therapy can save your skin. It’s easy to use, harm-free, cost effective, and will keep your skin feeling and looking healthy and youthful! Light therapy has been taking down acne one pimply face at a time and showing winter who’s boss.
Light Therapy & Acne:
We all deal with them, those not so pretty blemishes on our cheeks, our noses, our foreheads, our backs, and other unfortunate places. Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follies plug with oil and dead skin cells. The bothersome condition results in pimples, blackheads, and bumps. It’s honestly a pretty difficult condition to conquer. Some people can lay off the greasy potato chips, change their pillow cases every single morning, and still end up with zits on their foreheads. Some people can apply all of the expensive creams in the world, try every homeopathic treatment, read every Pinterest article about how to get rid of their zits, and they will still struggle. Some people deal with terrible side effects with acne medications, or they just can’t afford to keep getting it refilled! This is where light therapy can kick acne right out of your life.
Exposing your skin to different forms of light therapy can help kill the bacteria in and on your skin that causes redness and swelling from acne. Using a form of Light Therapy will not be a quick kill for your zits. It will not just zap them away like a laser does. Instead, the treatment kills the bacteria that causes acne and reduces the amount of oil-producing glands on your skin. This gives your skin a chance to recover by itself, without harming or damaging it for the long run. Depending on what is needed and wanted, the treatment will either be using red light, blue light, or a combination of the two.
What We’ve Learned From The Sun:
If you’ve ever gone on vacation somewhere sunny and warm, or you spend a lot of time outdoors in the summer, you’ll notice the effect the sun has on your skin. Not only are you nice and naturally tan, but it can treat acne and reduce the blemishes on your skin. The red and blue wavelengths of sunlight are what really do the trick. They’re not always visible, and let’s face it, not all of us are lucky enough to live in paradise! We can’t all get natural acne treatments sitting on the beach every day! Sometimes we need a little help. For long term benefits, and for most of us who have to deal with seasonal changes, Light Therapy really does the trick. Light Therapy helps mimic the sun, but actually does a better job due to the fact that you can target the exact light that you want. Meaning you can choose red light, blue light, or both!
Red Light vs. Blue Light:
Red light and blue light each have different effects on the skin, both providing lots of benefits. Even more so when they’re combined!
Facing Acne, a website dedicated to helping people get the clear skin they desire, has a wonderful article explaining light therapy and its effects on acne. The article summarizes the differences between red light and blue light. The website explains,
“Red light reaches deep into the skin and activates hemoglobin. Red light treatment cuts off just enough of the blood supply of oil-producing sebaceous glands that pores don’t get quite as oily. Blue light penetrates pores and kills acne bacteria—but not all the pore’s acne bacteria. There are always some acne bacteria in the sebaceous gland that can’t be reached by blue light.” (FacingAcne.com)
“There are specific wavelengths of visible light that kill acne bacteria. Visible blue light from the sun (in the frequency range of approximately 415 nm) that shines into pores can activate light-sensitive chemicals called porphyrins that are found in the outer cell membranes of the bacteria that cause acne. When these chemicals begin to vibrate in sync with solar energy, they rupture the outer lining of the bacterium. The contents of the bacterial cell begin to leak out, and the bacterium dies within 48 hours.
“Visible red light from the sun has a complementary benefit in treating acne. Solar rays in the frequency range of approximately 650 nanometers reach deeper into the skin, down to the level of the sebocytes that produce the oil that sometimes clogs pores.
“The red rays of the sun are absorbed by red compounds in the skin. They primarily heat up hemoglobin. Ordinary light shining on the surface of the skin, however, only reaches to the depth of the oil glands, and does not cauterize the blood vessels in the skin. The effects of red light on oil-producing glands are temporary, and they begin producing large amounts of oil again a week or two after treatment.” (FacingAcne.com)
Don’t Forget…
It is also important to note that drying out your skin is very easy to do. And dry skin does not mean healthy skin. So when it comes to light therapy, more treatment does not mean better results. Drying or burning your skin by keeping your face too close to your lamp or wand does not improve your skin. Also, using light therapy as your only form of skin treatment will not fix your problems. Light Therapy should always be combined with other methods for the best results. For example, be sure to keep your skin clean, watch what you eat, properly moisturize, change your sheets and pillowcases when necessary, etc.
Are You Sold?
Light Therapy started becoming popular as a way to treat and cure acne when highly intense medicines such as Accutane and Retin-A were given a whole slew of restrictions from the government. Due to the lack of negative effects that Light Therapy has on the body, dermatologists hopped right on board, no longer being afraid of putting their patient’s health on the line. Now instead of prescribing medications or acne, you can now receive in office treatments from your dermatologist. But don’t forget, you can treat yourself at home as well. Blue light and red light therapy devices to use at home or while you’re at a spa have become extremely popular and easy to find.
There are lower cost options such as handheld led lamps for your face or other problem areas. These help heat the oil under your pores so that blackheads can pop out. But there are also higher end devices that have proven to be much more effect. You will not see instant results from any product that you purchase or use at a spa, but being consistent and knowing what you’re doing will go a long way.
Project E Beauty LED Colors Photo Rejuvenation Kit – Facial Beauty Care Massager
Amazon for $54.99
The LED Light Therapy Skin System for Beautiful Skin uses multiple forms of light therapy to target skin conditions. This device is at a slightly higher price point, but you get more for your buck. This skin care package includes three detachable light heads which can be changed according to what your skin requires. The device is hand held, cordless when in use and charges with the included cord. The device is designed to give you a 30 minute treatment per charge and has a built in timer to let you know when your treatments, which are typically 10 minutes long, are finished. The LED Light Therapy Skin Care System has wonderful reviews for treating acne. It can also tighten the skin on your face and body and reduce fine lines and wrinkles.
Don’t let the winter months control the health of your skin! Your skin is craving light therapy. It’s time to jump on board!
Posted on February 22, 2017	In Acne, Light Therapy, Products, Skin Treatments
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
We’ve discussed devices you can purchase to make light therapy a part of your life, but what can you do to make light therapy a part of your home?
A home catered towards light sensitive individuals is an interesting concept. How can you make your humble abode a safe haven? What steps can you take? And how far do you want to take it?!
Humans are extremely sensitive to light. This is a discovery that is overlooked every day, in almost every home, almost every workplace, and in almost every doctor’s patient records. Changing the amount of light that is around us each day, altering when we see it, and recognizing how it helps us is the first diagnosis that needs to be made before creating your own light therapy home.
As most people know, light therapy can be used to treat a wide array of conditions, depending on the device being used. Light therapy can treat seasonal affective disorder, depression, acne, wrinkles, scars, chronic pain, wound healing, muscle and joint pain, and so much more. When discussing creating a light therapy friendly home, we are hoping to help you create a home that can lift mood levels, treat seasonal affective disorder, treat or ease the symptoms or depression, and improve your overall well being and happiness. Let’s break it down!
First Step: Windows
Windows are so important! They help bring sunlight into your home which, believe it or not, can have a serious effect on your well being. Aside from bringing in sunlight, windows also help keep our circadian rhythms, our body’s internal clocks, in check. The more we can see outside, the more we can remind our minds just what time of day it really is. This is helpful for people who work from home, are stay at home parents, are sick or injured, etc.
So what can you do? If you don’t have enough windows, it may be time to break out the sledgehammer! If you do have enough windows, make sure your curtains or shades let in enough light during the day.
Second Step: Lighting
Millions of people around the world suffer from seasonal affective disorder, depression, bipolar disorder, insomnia and other similar mental health conditions. Big, bright windows are helpful, but sometimes they are not enough. For example, individuals who suffer from seasonal affective disorder will need to add something besides windows and new curtains to their homes. Seasonal affective disorder occurs in the fall and winter months where the sun sets extremely early and throws off your body’s internal clock.
This is where lighting comes into play! Light therapy devices such as light boxes or lamps can be used on a set schedule each day in order to relieve symptoms from seasonal affective disorder, depression, bipolar disorder, etc., but creating a home that is light therapy friendly 24/7 is equally as important. Why only conduct your treatment once a day when your home could have your back any time of the day?
One of the most important steps in creating a light therapy based home is proper lighting. Warm lighting creates a soothing, relaxing, environment that can make people sensitive to light feel comfortable and safe. Using warm light bulbs in your lamps, avoiding LEDS in ceiling lights, using a timer for the main light fixture in your bedroom are all important steps to take.
Third Step: Colors
Another factor to consider when creating a light therapy friendly home is colors! You will want to choose warm lighting that interacts well with your window and lighting choices. Warm colors such as whites, beiges, yellows, maroons, etc., are all great examples. They create a comfortable atmosphere, especially when illuminated by large windows and warm lighting!
Products:
Now that you have some broad examples of what to look for when constructing your light therapy friendly home, we think you’re ready for some of our favorite products. Anyone who is sensitive to light will greatly benefit from using these products in any of the rooms in their house! Plus they’re all cost effective and easy to find!
Himalayan Salt Lamp
Amazon for $24 – $57
String Globe Lights
Amazon for $18 – $100
Sheer Curtains
Amazon for $8 – $30
Automatic Light Timer
Amazon for $10 – $20
Posted on February 21, 2017	In Uncategorized
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
Acne is the one condition that almost anyone, regardless of age, gender, or race, can relate to. We’ve all dealt with it, but have we all conquered it? Light therapy is helping men and women all over the world do just that. Conquer it!
What Is Acne?
Pretty simple question, right? We all know what acne is. It’s those bright red zits that always showed up at the most inopportune times when you were 16. It’s those pestering black heads all across your nose that you can never seem to squeeze out. It’s those patches of red spots showing up on your cheeks when you feel far too old for it. We can all define acne, I’m sure. But why does our skin react the way it does?
Acne is an extremely common skin condition. According to HealthLine, a popular website dedicated to explaining medical conditions and the intricate details of them. In the Symptom Checker section of the website, HealthLine explains just what acne is.
“Acne occurs when the pores on your skin become blocked with oil, dead skin, or bacteria. Each pore on your skin is the opening to a follicle. The follicle is made up of a hair and a sebaceous (oil) gland. The oil gland releases sebum (oil), which travels up the hair, out of the pore, and onto your skin. The sebum keeps your skin lubricated and soft. If you develop acne, this may be because of one or more problems in this lubrication process. These possible causes include:
too much oil or sebum is being produced by the follicle
dead skin cells are accumulating in the pore
bacteria has built up in the pore
An overabundance of oil, a pore clogged by dead skin cells, and bacteria all contribute to the development of pimples. A zit appears when the bacteria grows in the clogged pore and the oil is unable to escape.”
(HealthLine.com)
If your skin is constantly being affected by your pores being plugged, you may be struggling with acne. And no, you’re not unusual if you’re 40 years old and have acne. Acne can affect people of all ages. From young children just entering puberty, to residents in nursing homes. Life isn’t like the movies and sometimes you just get acne.
What Causes Acne?
Acne can be caused by a wide array of things. Hormonal changes, such as puberty or pregnancy can cause temporary acne. Certain medications can increase the risk as well. Birth control pills and corticosteroids are just a couple examples. Diet also plays a major role in developing acne. Unhealthy diets, diets high in refined sugars, and diets high carbohydrates such as bread and chips make the body more susceptible.
People assume that they’re just not washing their face enough, or they need a new face cream, but most of the time that’s not the case. Hey, maybe washing your face did the trick. But for most people, that’s just not the case. Most people need some medical treatment without the crazy costs.
Light Therapy & Acne
Light therapy has been clinically proven by dermatologists for over a decade to treat mild to moderate acne. While treatments can be conducted in doctor’s and dermatologist’s offices, the newest invention is light therapy at home! At home light therapy devices are cost effective, easy to fit into your schedule, and let you be in control! Neutrogena has created a light therapy mask specifically designed to treat acne on men and women. The Neutrogena Light Mask is reinventing how we treat acne at home!
Light therapy kicks acne’s butt with the help of red and blue lights. The two major factors that contribute to acne are bacteria and inflammation. The blue light from the mask kills the acne causing bacteria while the red light penetrates deep into the skin to reduce inflammation. Pretty simple, right? Plus the treatments are convenient and easy! After washing your face, put the mask on, press the activate button, and sit and relax for 10 minutes. The mask should be added into your daily health regime and you’ll start to see results in as little as one week! As long as you stick to a schedule, the Neutrogena Light Mask can completely rejuvenate your skin! You’ll feel and look better than ever.
We love the Neutrogena Light Mask for more than just the fact that it treats acne. The mask comes with a long list of benefits…
100% UV free
Chemical free
FDA cleared
Cost effective
Convenient
Treatments don’t take long
Small and portable
Extremely effective
Creates healthy and youthful glow
A word from the users…
Neutrogena collected reviews from Light Mask users who shared their opinions on Twitter. They then decided to share the reviews on their website. We’ve decided to share some of them with you, just so you can listen to someone besides us, too!
“My skin felt soft, clearer, and less oily than usual. Lightweight and comfortable…very easy to use!”
-Kris1410
“This light therapy mask has been a major game changer in my skin care! It targets the issues within our skin that need more deep, gentle care.”
-LailaB
“My skin feels and looks amazing… I recommend this completely!”
-MarieAntoinette
“Got rid of troubled acne… more than happy with my results as my skin is now clearer than ever before.”
-fan.girl.much.
What do you think? Is it time to buy yourself a Neutrogena Light Mask? Remember, it’s never too late!
Posted on February 20, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Light Therapy, Products, Red Light Therapy
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
What It Is…
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the power of light. With patience, dedication, and a schedule that fits your lifestyle, light therapy can make you feel at the top of your game at all times!
Light therapy can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and so much more. In this article, we are going to discuss how light therapy treats physical conditions. You read that right – light can cure your acne!
How It Works…
Light therapy works to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin disorders, wrinkles, chronic pain, and more by penetrating into the skin and activating specific cellular activity depending on what your body needs and which devices are being used.
When it comes to light therapy in this regard, there are a lot more options and a lot more to explain! Each condition requires a specific device as well as a specific treatment plan. However, when done right, light therapy has the power to completely change the game. Light therapy is all natural, drug-free, harm-free, and cost effective, which can make treatment for all of the following conditions much easier to endure.
Acne:
Red light and blue light therapy are the most common forms of light used to treat acne. The blue light penetrates into the skin to kill acne-causing bacteria in the pores while red light reduces inflammation and reduces the production of oils. The combination of the two is undeniable and can kick acne’s butt in no time.
Skin-Rejuvenating:
When it comes to anti-aging, wrinkles, and sun damage, light therapy is the best. Red light therapy produces elastin and collagen which prevents skin aging. It also increases circulation by relaxing the blood vessels in the specific treatment areas which allows blood to flow more easily. This helps to prevent and diminish wrinkles because increased circulation encourages the production of new skin cells.
Pain:
Light therapy is often used to treat a wide array of pain, even chronic pain, all caused by different conditions. Red Light Therapy can treat muscle pain, joint pain, herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Red light therapy treats this long list because of its power to penetrate deep into the body and reach the tissue beneath the skin with the use of infrared lights, lamps, pads, beds, and more. Red infrared light has the power to activate cellular activity which can begin the body’s natural healing process as well as reduce inflammation which alone can cause great pain.
Wound Healing:
Did you know that red light can heal a wound 200% faster than any other treatment plan? Red and/or infrared red light therapy can close and treat a wound, even in diabetics, which is far from easy. There are quite a few ways that light therapy works to treat wounds:
Increases circulation and the formation of new capillaries. Both of these activities allow the wounded area to receive more of the oxygen and nutrients it needs to heal.
Increases phagocytosis which is the cleanup of dead or damaged cells which helps control infections.
Increases lymph system activity which ensures efficient cleansing and detoxification of wounds without taking over the lymph system.
Stimulates production of fibroblasts which synthesize collagen, elastin, and proteoglycans in final stages of healing process.
Stimulates production of collagen which is key for closing a wound.
Stimulates tissue granulation which forms new connective tissue and small bloods vessels on the surfaces of a wound during healing.
Causes the release of ATP or raw cellular energy. Helps provide energy to the damaged and surrounding cells so they can do what they are meant to do and heal themselves.
Best Brands for Physical Health Light Therapy…
ReVive Light Therapy
Project E Beauty
Tendilite
Light Relief
DPL Flex
Philips
Beaurer North America
Yok Pollar
Posted on February 19, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Pain, Psoriasis, Red Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Wound Healing
How Light Therapy Works!
What It Is…
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the power of light. With patience, dedication, and a schedule that fits your lifestyle, light therapy can make you feel at the top of your game at all times!
Light therapy can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and so much more. In this article, we are going to discuss how light therapy treats mental disorders. Light can cure your depression?! What?!
How It Works…
The main concept of light therapy is using a form of artificial light, such as a light box or lamp, which mimics natural outdoor light. The use of artificial light affects the brains chemicals, such as serotonin, which are linked to mood and sleep. Light therapy also targets the same brain structures that anti-depressants are meant to target. This opens up a whole new world for this all natural, drug-free, harm-free, cost-effective therapy!
Light therapy and our biological clock go hand in hand. Our body’s biological clock keeps our body rhythms and sleep-wake cycles in sync with the earth’s light-day cycles. Our biological clock, often referred to as our circadian rhythm, is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus, the brain’s hormone control center. It’s controlled by four neurotransmitters – dopamine, norepinephrine, glutamate, and GABA. These neurotransmitters are chemicals that enable function within our brain.
When our eyes are exposed to light, this part of our brain is activated and production of melatonin, a sleep hormone, is reduced. Reducing the production of melatonin in our brains allows a stable increase of seratonin, the hormone that keeps us awake and gives us energy. Exposing our eyes to light also releases a wide array of hormones for other mental functions and affects our body’s temperature.
“Human beings evolved under the day-night cycle. It is the natural time-keeper that sets our biological clocks within our brains and organs throughout the body.”
-Richard Schwartz, MD, associate clinical professor of psychiatry,Harvard Medical School
We are more linked with the earth than most people would like to believe. Our brains are extremely susceptible to light, the weather, and the natural cycles of the earth. Strangely, we are programmed to cycle naturally every 24.2 hours. However, because we are so linked to the earth’s rhythms and our exposure to light on a daily basis, our cycle changes. We are closely linked to the earth and that’s important to understand first and foremost when it comes to light therapy.
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD):
Light therapy is used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder, or SAD, most commonly in the fall and winter months. When the sun begins to set way too early and/or there is very little sunlight throughout the day at all, it is very easy for SAD to creep in and take over your life. Being exposed to bright light for a set amount of time each day can help treat or reduce the symptoms of SAD.
Depression:
Just like Seasonal Affective Disorder, choosing a strict daily light therapy schedule is the best way to see results when it comes to treating or reducing the symptoms of depression. The main goal of light therapy in regards to depression treatment is to reduce the production of melatonin while increasing the production of seratonin. More seratonin = happy mind!
Insomnia:
The more bright light that is received during the day, especially earlier on in the day, the more likely we are to produce an adequate amount of melatonin at night. More bright light also reduces the brain’s sensitivity to small light exposure in the night time.
Bipolar Disorder:
Light therapy is not a 100% proven treatment for Bipolar Disorder, but it is on the radar and being used by many patients. Since one of the main symptoms of Bipolar Disorder is depression, light therapy is an extremely viable treatment plan. Plus it can reduce patient’s medicinal intake which is great due to the fact that bipolar medications often have awful side effects.
Best Brands for Mental Health Light Therapy…
Northern Light Technology
Nature Bright
Philips
Verilux
Posted on February 18, 2017	In Depression, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Light therapy is a form of all natural therapy that is changing lives around the world. During the basic and most common form of light therapy, patients sit near a special lamp that emits bright light for a set amount of time on a daily schedule. This artificial lighting is meant to mimic natural outdoor light with the goal of affecting the body’s internal clock. Our internal clocks, or circadian rhythms, regulate the way our brains react to energy during the daytime, sleep during the nighttime, and when our bodies become hungry. Melatonin, a sleep hormone, is naturally released in our brains at night when our internal clock is off. Serotonin, our mood altering hormone that provides us with energy, is supposed to be consistently being released throughout the day, while our internal clock is on and active. However, due to factors such as work schedules, seasonal changes, mental disorders, sleeping problems, and more, it is very easy for our circadian rhythms to be thrown off. This is where light therapy saves us!
Since our circadian rhythms are greatly influenced by natural every day environmental factors such as the sunrise and sunset, light therapy is a wonderful way to make sure our bodies are releasing melatonin and serotonin at the correct times. Doing so can treat mental disorders such as depression and seasonal affective disorder, increase energy and happiness levels, improve skin conditions, and so much more!
As with any medical practice, there is a long list of myths that follow light therapy around. We’re here to share some myths with you and provide you with the facts. Let’s get down to it.
Myth #1: All Light Therapy Is The Same
While we’ve been noting light therapy for mental conditions in this article, there are many different forms of light therapy. Aside from standard bright light treatments, there are also red, blue, and green light therapy devices. These devices can treat skin conditions such as psoriasis and acne. They are also wildly successful at rejuvenating the skin, reducing wrinkles and fine lines, and making you feel like your sixteen year old self again! Red light is also used for muscle and joint pain, wound healing, chronic pain, and more. Don’t stop at bright light, all of the colors are wonderful!
Myth #2: Light Therapy Is Only Used For Depression
It’s true, light therapy is most commonly used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and other forms of depression. However, light therapy has endless potential for our mental and emotional well being. It can also treat sleep disorders, dementia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. Assuming that light therapy is only good for one thing is just silly!
Myth #3: So I Just Stare Into A Light Bulb For Hours?
Wrong! It’s easy to assume that light therapy treatments consist of sitting in front of light bulbs and waiting for the magic to happen. But in actuality, treatment sessions typically don’t last longer than 30 minutes a day. The sessions are easy to fit into your daily routine and most devices allow you to do other activities to pass the time or multitask. Try reading a book, knitting, or eating a meal while sitting in front of your light therapy device!
Also, you wouldn’t stare into the light – so take note of that. A light therapy device usually emits light that is 100 times brighter than most indoor lighting, since the treatments are intense and succinct, so you definitely don’t want to be staring into that bulb!
Myth #4: There Are No Side Effects!
It’s always important to talk with a doctor before starting any new medical treatment. Just because light is natural and we can’t necessarily feel treatment sessions when they’re occurring doesn’t mean that they are 100% harmless. Light therapy can have a negative effect on those with sensitive skin and eyes. It can also cause eye straining, headaches, nausea, or irritability. Most of these side effects are mild and short term, however it is still important to monitor the usage of your light therapy device and consider any personal conditions –such as bipolar disorder or a severe skin condition — before beginning treatment – for example
It’s easy to make assumptions about things that are not normal or common. Light therapy is a world changing treatment that deserves all of the praise and credit you can give it! Make no assumptions about light therapy, don’t believe the myths, and know your facts. If you follow these words, you will end up thanking us! We promise.
Posted on February 17, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Color Light Therapy, Depression, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Features
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Recent Posts
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
How Light Therapy Works!
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Understanding and Appreciating Vitamin D
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light Therapy is Boosting Libido in Men!
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
November 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
Categories
Acne
Blue Light Therapy
Celebrities
Children
Chronic Pain
Color Light Therapy
Daylight Savings Time
Depression
Devices
Experiments
Hair Loss
Infrared Red Light Therapy
Insomnia
Jetlag
Libido
Light Therapy
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Products
Psoriasis
Red Light Therapy
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Skin Rejuvenation
Skin Treatments
Small Space
Studies
Sunlight
Top 10's
Travel
Uncategorized
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
Wound Healing
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© 2019 Light Therapy Review — foundly by Foundly