Symptom Management Archives - Living With Arthritis
Arthritis.org
Living With Arthritis Blog
Menu
Skip to content
Donate
Category Archives: Symptom Management
Arthritis Blog Home » Living With Arthritis Blog Home » Symptom Management
Tuesday, November 13 | Arthritis Foundation
Holiday Travel Can Be a Pain
The holidays are a great time to catch up with friends and spend quality time with family. From parties to special dinners to festive family traditions, this time of year is full of joy and excitement. But if the most important people in your life don’t live nearby, you’ll probably be traveling – and when you live with arthritis, that can often mean pain. Continue reading Holiday Travel Can Be a Pain →
Leave a comment
Thursday, November 8 | Arthritis Foundation
You Said It: Best Advice From Your Doctor
Pearls of wisdom, encouragement, perspective, no-nonsense tough love. Sometimes when living with a chronic disease like arthritis and searching for a treatment that works, you need some advice. It may come from a dear friend or even a stranger, but many times your arthritis doctor tells you what you need to hear. We asked our readers and followers, “What is the best advice your rheumatologist or arthritis doctor gave you?”
Continue reading You Said It: Best Advice From Your Doctor →
Leave a comment
Tuesday, October 30 | Arthritis Foundation
Falling Leaves and Aching Joints: Combat the Pain Caused by Cooler Temps
Fall is a beautiful time of year – but along with changing leaves and cooler temps can come painful arthritis flares and inflamed joints. Changes in weather are often a source of discomfort for people with arthritis. Thankfully, there are ways you can lessen the impact cooler temps have on your joints, including making a pain plan that works for you.
Continue reading Falling Leaves and Aching Joints: Combat the Pain Caused by Cooler Temps →
Leave a comment
Friday, September 7 | Arthritis Foundation
Reader Insights: What I Should Be Doing for My Arthritis?
Arthritis Today readers answer the question: What should you be doing for your arthritis?
» Exercise, definitely. But I am so tired all the time. I feel better when I get going, but making myself go for a walk is hard! —Pauline Turner
Continue reading Reader Insights: What I Should Be Doing for My Arthritis? →
Leave a comment
Friday, August 24 | Arthritis Foundation
The Menopause-Arthritis Connection
Cheryl Koehn, 56, was surprised that information about how menopause might impact her rheumatoid arthritis (RA) – and vice versa – was so hard to find. “So many of us go through these profound life experiences in units of one,” says Koehn, who co-authored the book Rheumatoid Arthritis: Plan To Win (2002, Oxford University Press). In fact, living with inflammatory arthritis can affect how women experience menopause and their health risks.
Continue reading The Menopause-Arthritis Connection →
Leave a comment
Wednesday, August 15 | Arthritis Foundation
What’s Aching Your Big Toe?
It is easy to forget how important your big toe is – most of the time it stays out of sight and out of mind, hidden beneath our socks and shoes. But if you have ever had toe pain, you know it can keep you off your feet and up at night.
When arthritis affects the foot it usually hits at the base of the big toe in what is known as the MTP, or metatarsophalangeal joint. This can cause big problems for the tiny joint that has to bend and bear about 50% of your body weight every time you take a step.
Here are six common culprits of big toe joint pain—many of which are related—and ways you can find relief.
Continue reading What’s Aching Your Big Toe? →
Leave a comment
Tuesday, August 7 | Arthritis Foundation
Relieve Arthritis Stress With Expressive Writing
While living with arthritis can create stresses most people might not even think about, a technique called expressive writing may bring relief, both mentally and physically. For example, maybe you’re angry because pain is keeping you from joining friends on a shopping trip or playing with your kids – again. You may be stuck in anger.
“But in addition to anger, you probably also feel grief, loss and a lack of control over the circumstances,” says clinical psychologist Mark Lumley, PhD, psychology professor at Wayne State University in Detroit. “Expressive writing can help bring forward those less-accessible feelings besides anger that don’t always have a voice.
Writing this way reduces inner conflict and provides you a better sense of emotional balance – and perhaps even less pain – when you express those feelings on paper.”
Continue reading Relieve Arthritis Stress With Expressive Writing →
Leave a comment
Monday, August 6 | Arthritis Foundation
Essential Oils: What You Should Know
Aromatherapy won’t cure your arthritis, but it may ease certain symptoms and help you feel better. For example, lavender is sometimes used to relieve anxiety and promote sleep. Some research shows aromatherapy may even have benefits for pain. Two small studies found aromatherapy massage with lavender or ginger and orange oils led to short-term relief of knee pain.
“It doesn’t work for everyone, but some have good outcomes,” says Sue Cutshall, a Mayo Clinic integrative health clinical nurse specialist. However, as with other “natural” treatments, you should exercise caution when using them; in rare cases, they can be hazardous.
Essential oils are the foundation of aromatherapy. The oils – extracted from plants, flowers, herbs and trees – are most often used for their scent, but they can also be mixed with lotions or alcohol and used as bath or massage products.
Most essential oils have few side effects or risks when used as directed, but some can cause harm. Undiluted essential oils can provoke skin problems, and citrus essential oils can increase sun sensitivity.
Continue reading Essential Oils: What You Should Know →
Leave a comment
Monday, July 30 | Arthritis Foundation
Know When to Go to the Emergency Room
You’re feeling sick but your doctor is booked and the nearest urgent care center is 45 minutes away. There’s always the hospital emergency room, but your symptoms aren’t that bad. Should you just tough it out?
Figuring out how and where to handle an illness isn’t easy. It’s even harder for people with inflammatory types of arthritis, because complications related to the disease and its treatment can be serious, says Uzma Haque, MD, assistant professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore. Here’s what she suggests:
Continue reading Know When to Go to the Emergency Room →
Leave a comment
Tuesday, July 3 | Arthritis Foundation
Sunshine Safety: Should You Soak it Up or Block it Out?
Basking in the summer sun has some definite benefits, but there are also known dangers. Here’s what you should know about the potential effects.
Continue reading Sunshine Safety: Should You Soak it Up or Block it Out? →
Leave a comment
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
RSS
Post Categories
Activities
Apparel
Community
Events
Exercise
Giving
Natural Therapies
Nutrition
Pain Management
Recipes
Risks
Support
Surgery
Symptom Management
Tools & Resources
Treatment
Uncategorized
Blog Listing
Stories of Yes
News
Advocacy
Living with Arthritis
Juvenile Arthritis
Gout
Osteoarthritis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
arthritis diet arthritis exercise arthritis and the holidays pain management anti-inflammatory diet arthritis life hacks arthritis-friendly exercise managing stress arthritis exercises arthritis diet foods arthritis nutrition arthritis pain management massage for arthritis easy gardening arthritis-friendly diet arthritis-friendly shopping food shopping for arthritis supplements for arthritis arthritis supplements exercise for arthritis natural arthritis pain relief arthritis pain shopping tips arthritis workouts traveling with arthritis arthritis stress arthritis sleep cleaning tips emotions and pain arthritis tips travel tips cleaning with arthritis natural arthritis therapies arthritis symptom management arthritis-friendly cooking rheumatoid arthritis arthritis weight loss symptom management arthritis support diet for arthritis supplements and herbs for arthritis arthritis exercise motivation fibromyalgia gardening arthritis massage
Enewsletter Sign Up
Thank you for signing up to receive our newsletter!
Contact Us
Posting Policy
Trademarks
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 • All Rights Reserved.