Diet plan for anemia: Best meals and foods for boosting iron
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Foods and meal plans for iron deficiency
Last reviewed	 Mon 2 July 2018	 Last reviewed	Mon 2 Jul 2018
By Bethany Cadman
Reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Table of contents
Causes
Meal plans
Foods rich in iron
Foods to avoid
Dietary tips
Outlook
A diet plan for anemia needs to include a healthful balance of iron-rich foods, such as leafy vegetables, lean meat, nuts and seeds, and fortified breakfast cereals. It is also crucial to include foods that can improve the body's absorption of iron and avoid foods that may interfere with this process.
Anemia occurs when the body does not have enough red blood cells.
In some cases, the body does not produce a sufficient number of these cells. In others, anemia results from an underlying health problem, such as a disease that destroys red blood cells. Significant blood loss can also cause anemia.
A person with anemia may benefit from adding iron-rich foods to the diet. Also, certain foods can help the body to absorb iron, while others can block this process and make anemia worse.
In this article, we explore the foods that can help or harm people with anemia. We also provide sample meal plans designed to boost iron levels, plus other dietary tips.
What causes anemia?
Eating iron-rich foods will benefit a person with amenia.
Anemia can result from many factors, including:
a lack of iron in the diet
heavy menstruation
a lack of folate or vitamin B-12 in the diet
Bleeding in the stomach and intestines can also cause anemia. This type of bleeding is sometimes a side effect of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Or, it may result from:
ulcers
piles
swelling in the large intestine or esophagus
certain cancers
People who are pregnant have an increased risk of developing iron-deficiency anemia, which occurs when iron levels are too low. In these cases, doctors usually advise people to take iron supplements.
The recommended daily allowance (RDA) of iron depends on a person's age and sex. A baby younger than 6 months old only requires 0.27 milligrams (mg) of iron a day, while a male aged 19–50 years old requires 8 mg a day, and a female in the same age range needs 18 mg of iron a day.
During pregnancy, a person should increase their daily iron intake to 27 mg.
People with iron-deficiency anemia need a significant boost and require 150–200 mg of iron a day.
Meal plans
Adding iron-rich foods to the diet can help to treat anemia. A doctor can advise about the kinds of foods to choose from and other ways to increase iron absorption.
The best diet for a person with anemia includes plenty of foods rich in iron and other foods that help the body to absorb iron. A person should also be aware of foods that can inhibit iron absorption.
The plan below was developed to show what healthful meals for a person with anemia might include:
Breakfast
Option 1
Iron-fortified cereal and a glass of iron-fortified orange juice.
Option 2
Strawberries with low-fat yogurt and a handful of pumpkin and sunflower seeds.
Tea and coffee inhibit iron absorption, and people should not drink them with meals.
Lunch
Option 1
A sandwich with roast beef and watercress on iron-enriched bread.
Option 2
A bagel with smoked salmon, cream cheese, and spinach.
Dinner
Option 1
Lamb chops with boiled potatoes, steamed broccoli, and curly kale.
Option 2
A stew that includes kidney beans, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, tinned tomatoes, onions, red peppers, and garlic, topped with vegan or dairy-based cheese and a dollop of yogurt.
Serum iron test: High, low, and normal ranges
A doctor may order a serum iron test if they suspect a person does not have a healthy amount of iron in the blood. Learn about what the normal ranges are and treatment options for people whose iron levels are too high or low.
Read now
Foods rich in iron
Pumpkin seeds are an excellent source of iron.
Many foods contain high levels of iron. A person may find it easy to combine them and make tasty, nutritious meals that help to boost the intake of iron.
Fruits and vegetables
watercress
curly kale and other varieties
spinach
collard greens
dandelion greens
Swiss chard
citrus fruits
red and yellow peppers
broccoli
However, some dark, leafy greens also contain oxalates, which can inhibit iron absorption. Rather than relying solely on vegetables, a person should aim to get iron from a variety of sources.
Nuts and seeds
pumpkin seeds
cashews
pistachios
hemp seeds
pine nuts
sunflower seeds
Meat and Fish
beef
lamb
venison
liver
shellfish
oysters
shrimp
sardines
tuna
salmon
halibut
perch
haddock
Dairy products
raw milk
yogurt
cheese
Beans and pulses
kidney beans
chickpeas
soybeans
black-eyed peas
pinto beans
black beans
peas
lima beans
Also, it may be a good idea to choose iron-fortified cereals, bread products, orange juice, rice, and pasta.
Foods to avoid
Dairy products can interfere with iron absorption.
The following foods can interfere with iron absorption:
tea and coffee
milk and some dairy products
whole-grain cereals
foods that contain tannins, such as grapes, corn, and sorghum
foods rich in gluten, such as pasta and other products made with wheat, barley, rye, or oats
foods that contain phytates or phytic acid, such as brown rice and whole-grain wheat products
foods that contain oxalic acid, such as peanuts, parsley, and chocolate
Tips for getting more iron in the diet
The best way to add iron to the diet is to eat more foods that are rich in iron. However, the following strategies can maximize a person's iron intake:
refraining from drinking tea or coffee with meals
refraining from eating foods rich in calcium with those rich in iron
eating iron-rich foods alongside those rich in vitamin C
cooking with a cast-iron skillet
cooking foods for shorter periods
If a person has tried changing their diet and their levels of iron remain low, they should speak with a doctor or dietician, who may recommend a supplement.
Doctors often recommend choosing a supplement containing ferrous salts such as ferrous fumarate, ferrous gluconate, or ferrous sulfate. These formulations all contain anywhere from 15–106 mg of elemental iron in a tablet or oral solution.
Outlook
People with iron-deficiency anemia can benefit from adding iron to their diet. The foods and strategies listed above can help a person to manage the condition.
Eating certain dark, leafy greens, seafood, beans, nuts, and seeds can help a person to boost their iron intake. It may also be a good idea to use a cast-iron skillet, and cooking meals for shorter periods, when possible.
Iron supplements can benefit people who do not receive enough iron from their diets. It is essential to follow dosage instructions carefully. An excess of iron can cause iron toxicity. This can be dangerous and, on rare occasions, fatal.
Related coverage
What's to know about anemia rash? Anemia rash is a term that refers to red pinpricks that appear on the skin and are caused by a low platelet count. These rashes often appear on the lower leg. This MNT Knowledge Center article examines the symptoms and treatments, including how it is identified and diagnosed. Read now
Macrocytic anemia: Symptoms and treatment Macrocytic anemia is a type of anemia characterized by abnormally large red blood cells. The size of the red blood cells means there are fewer of them to help the body function. In this article, learn about the causes of macrocytic anemia, including folate and B-12 deficiencies, as well as how the condition is treated. Read now
What to know about iron deficiency anemia Iron is a vital mineral in the body, central to transporting oxygen around the body in the hemoglobin. A shortage of iron can cause health problems. In this article, learn about anemia and what causes iron deficiency. What are risk factors for developing iron deficiency anemia and how is it diagnosed? Read now
All about autoimmune hemolytic anemia Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, or AIHA, is an immune condition where the immune system destroys red blood cells. It can lead to a range of health problems. Warm AIHA affects a person at room temperature, but with cold AIHA, symptoms worsen with cold. Find about the different types, what causes them, and the outlook. Read now
Everything you need to know about anemia Anemia affects more than 3 million Americans and is the most common blood disorder in the world. It occurs when the body does not have enough red blood cells and is unable to deliver enough oxygen to the cells in the body. This article looks at the three leading causes of anemia and what treatments are available. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Blood / Hematology Public Health
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Mon 2 July 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Calcium content of common foods. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.iofbonehealth.org/osteoporosis-musculoskeletal-disorders/osteoporosis/prevention/calcium/calcium-content-common-foods
Diseases of iron metabolism. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://library.med.utah.edu/WebPath/TUTORIAL/IRON/IRON.html
Does cooking with cast iron pots and pans add iron to our food? (2015, April 21). Retrieved from http://goaskalice.columbia.edu/answered-questions/does-cooking-cast-iron-pots-and-pans-add-iron-our-food
Folate-deficiency anemia. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/hematology_and_blood_disorders/anemia_of_folate_deficiency_85,P00089/
Geerligs, P. D., Brabin, B. J., & Omari, A. A. (2003, August). Food prepared in iron cooking pots as an intervention for reducing iron deficiency anaemia in developing countries: A systematic review [Abstract]. Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, 16(4), 275–281.Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12859709
Iron [Fact sheet]. (2018, March 2). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Iron-HealthProfessional/
Iron and the body. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.northwestern.edu/sportsmedicine/services/sports-nutrition/assets/iron-fact-sheet-2015.pdf
Iron deficiency anaemia. (2018, January 12). Retrieved from https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/iron-deficiency-anaemia/
Iron deficiency anemia. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.rush.edu/services/conditions/iron-deficiency-anemia
Iron-deficiency anemia. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.hematology.org/Patients/Anemia/Iron-Deficiency.aspx
Iron-deficiency anemia. (2018, April 25). Retrieved from https://www.womenshealth.gov/a-z-topics/iron-deficiency-anemia
Iron-deficiency anemia [Fact sheet]. (2017, May 3). Retrieved from https://www.womenshealth.gov/files/documents/fact-sheet-iron-deficiency-anemia.pdf
Johnson-Wimbley, T. D., & Graham, D. Y. (2011, March 21). Diagnosis and management of iron deficiency anemia in the 21st century [Abstract]. Therapeutic Advances in Gastroenterology, 4(3), 177–184. Retrieved from http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1756283X11398736
Santiago, P. (2012, May 2). Ferrous versus ferric oral iron formulations for the treatment of iron deficiency: A clinical review. The Scientific World Journal, 2012, 846824. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3354642/
Yan, L. (2016, August 13). Dark green leafy vegetables. Retrieved from https://www.ars.usda.gov/plains-area/gfnd/gfhnrc/docs/news-2013/dark-green-leafy-vegetables/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Cadman, Bethany. "Foods and meal plans for iron deficiency." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 2 Jul. 2018. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322336.php>
APA
Cadman, B. (2018, July 2). "Foods and meal plans for iron deficiency." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322336.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322336.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);