Plantar Wart Home Remedy: 7 Treatments
Newsletter
How to Treat Plantar Warts at Home Naturally
Medically reviewed by Gerhard Whitworth, RN — Written by Kristeen Cherney on November 15, 2018
Plantar wart remedy
Calluses﻿
Risk factors
Prevention﻿
When to see a doctor
Takeaway
Overview
Plantar warts occur from a viral infection in your skin called the human papillomavirus (HPV). This virus can enter your skin through cuts. Plantar warts are common on the soles of the feet.
These types of warts can be painful, and the resulting raised bumps uncomfortable. Plantar warts also have “wart seeds,” or tiny black spots that are actually blood vessels. While not necessarily harmful, plantar warts can grow and eventually make it uncomfortable to stand and walk.
It’s possible to treat plantar warts at home, but it’s also important to know when you should see a doctor for medical treatment.
Plantar wart home treatment
While plantar warts aren’t dangerous, you might want to get them removed due to discomfort and aesthetic reasons. Any wart removal treatment will take several weeks, if not longer, according to the American Academy of Dermatology.
Apple cider vinegar
Apple cider vinegar continues to be studied for a wide range of health uses, including possible wart removal. A suggests that the anti-infective properties of the vinegar can help reduce plantar warts. More research is needed to support this, however.
To use apple cider vinegar on your warts, apply with a cotton ball to the affected area twice daily.
Duct tape
One way to gradually get rid of plantar warts is by using duct tape. Stick a small piece of tape to the affected area, and then change the tape at least twice a day. (You might need to change the tape more often for warts on the bottoms of your feet.)
The idea behind duct tape for warts is that it can help “peel away” the layers of the warts. In theory, the wart will eventually peel completely away.
Salicylic acid
Salicylic acid is a type of beta hydroxy acid often used in acne treatment. It works by removing dead skin cells, which can sometimes clog your pores.
Higher concentrations of salicylic acid can be found in over-the-counter (OTC) wart creams and ointments. These products shed the skin around the wart little by little, until it’s eventually cleared up completely.
To get the most out of this treatment measure, you’ll need to apply the salicylic acid on your plantar warts twice per day, every day. It can also be helpful to prep the skin by soaking the affected area in warm water for 10 minutes before applying the acid.
It can take several weeks for the warts to completely go away.
Tea tree oil
Tea tree oil has been historically used as a topical antiseptic. It’s primarily used for fungal infections, wounds, and acne. While not widely studied, tea tree oil may also work for plantar warts.
To try this remedy, apply a small amount of tea tree oil diluted in olive or almond oil to the affected area twice a day.
Milk thistle
Milk thistle is another herbal remedy that may help clear up skin conditions. Unlike tea tree oil, milk thistle has been researched for its antiviral properties. You can apply diluted milk thistle extract to your warts twice a day.
Don’t use this product if you have a history of ragweed allergies.
Iodine
Iodine is an essential mineral that’s most often associated with thyroid health. But certain formulations can be used for other purposes too — this includes wart removal.
One found that a combination product of providone-iodine topical solution helped clear up warts after twice-daily applications over the course of 12 weeks. You can buy both products from a drugstore.
Still, this type of treatment is best used while under a doctor’s supervision, especially if you have any underlying chronic illnesses like thyroid disease.
OTC freezing sprays
Aside from salicylic acid, you can also buy “freezing sprays” at the drugstore for plantar warts. These liquid nitrogen-containing products are designed to mimic the effects of cryotherapy at a doctor’s office.
The spray works by creating a blister-like injury that sticks to the wart. Once the blister heals, the wart will go away too.
To use freezing spray, dispense the product directly onto your wart for up to 20 seconds. Repeat if necessary. The blister will form and fall off in about one week. After this time, you may decide to repeat treatment if the wart is still there.
You might have to repeat the process several times for .
Plantar wart or callus?
Calluses are caused by repeated friction against the skin. These are most common on your hands and feet. With a callus, you may notice a raised area of skin that is white in color.
Calluses aren’tthe same thing as plantar warts. Sometimes the two look alike, except calluses don’t have any black spots in them.
Calluses can go away on their own when friction against the skin has stopped, such as when changing tight shoes for a better-fitting pair. The outer skin of the callus may also be cut off or filed away.
It’s possible to have plantar warts inside of a callus. This is because the enhanced friction that’s causing the callus also increases the risk of getting these types of warts, according to the Mayo Clinic.
A plantar wart that grows inward can also create a callus due to increased pressure against your skin.
Plantar wart risk factors
While plantar warts are caused by the HPV virus, there are other risk factors to consider. You might be at an increased risk of getting plantar warts if you:
have a history of plantar warts
are a child or a teenager
have a weak immune system
frequently walk barefoot, especially in germ-prone areas like locker rooms
Plantar wart prevention
With the right precautions, plantar warts may be prevented, even if you’re at a higher risk of developing them:
Avoid touching warts, including your own.
Wash your hands before and after touching a wart.
Don’t pick at a plantar wart with your fingers.
Avoid using the files and pumice stones you used on affected areas of skin for nonaffected areas.
Don’t walk barefoot in public areas.
Keep your feet clean and dry.
Change your socks and shoes frequently.
When to see a doctor
Plantar warts that don’t go away or keep coming back despite home treatments should be looked at by a doctor. They can treat the warts in the office with cryotherapy. They might also recommend prescription-strength foot creams to get rid of the warts for good.
For chronic plantar warts, your doctor may refer you to a foot specialist.
You may want to consider foregoing any home treatments and see your doctor right away if you have:
diabetes
a generally weak immune system
HIV or AIDS
solid brown or black warts (these could be cancerous)
plantar warts that change in color and size
severe discomfort due to the warts
changes in your gait
Takeaway
Plantar warts tend to go away eventually, and you may be able to treat them at home.
When in doubt, always ask a doctor for advice, especially if the plantar warts worsen or affect your daily mobility.
Medically reviewed by Gerhard Whitworth, RN — Written by Kristeen Cherney on November 15, 2018
related stories
Can You Remove Warts with Apple Cider Vinegar?
What’s Afoot with Mosaic Warts?
If You Work on Your Feet
Should Warts Itch?
12 Ways to Remove a Wart on Your Finger
READ THIS NEXT
Can You Remove Warts with Apple Cider Vinegar?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
It may be touted as an ancient remedy for just about anything, but can apple cider vinegar really be the golden cure-all for your warts?
READ MORE
What’s Afoot with Mosaic Warts?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Also called recalcitrant plantar warts, mosaic warts grow in clusters on your feet. If you're worried mosaic warts are taking over your sole, here are…
READ MORE
If You Work on Your Feet
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA, COI
Working on your feet all day can do a number on your feet, legs, and back. Learn tips for choosing the right shoes, stretching, and home care.
READ MORE
Should Warts Itch?
Medically reviewed by Daniel Murrell, MD
Warts are common, and they're usually harmless. Although not all warts itch, it's completely normal if they do. They usually aren't a sign of anything…
READ MORE
12 Ways to Remove a Wart on Your Finger
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
There are many different kinds of warts, but removing a wart from your finger is something you can probably do at home. Here's how, and when to see a…
READ MORE
13 Habits Linked to a Long Life (Backed by Science)
Written by Alina Petre, MS, RD (CA)
How long you live is largely within your own control. Here are 13 diet and lifestyle habits to adopt in order to live a long life.
READ MORE
Everything You Need to Know About Alzheimer’s Disease
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive form of dementia that interferes with memory, thinking, and behavior. There's no cure for Alzheimer's, but there…
READ MORE
MS in Women: Common Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Seunggu Han, MD
Women develop MS twice as often as men. Learn about symptoms that women with MS commonly experience, such as muscle spasms, numbness, and pain.
READ MORE
Types of Multiple Sclerosis
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
The four types of multiple sclerosis are clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting MS, primary-progressive MS, and secondary-progressive MS…
READ MORE
Stages of Osteoarthritis of the Knee
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Osteoarthritis (OA) is divided into five stages, spanning a normal and healthy knee to one that's severely damaged. Symptoms become worse at later…
READ MORE
CMS Id: wp-9100 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877