People with dementia may benefit from naftidrofuryl | Cochrane
Jump to navigation
Language:
English
Español
Français
日本語
More languages available
Show fewer languages
Media
Contact us
Community
My Account
Cochrane
Trusted evidence.
Informed decisions.
Better health.
Enter terms
People with dementia may benefit from naftidrofuryl
Dementia is characterized by chronic, global, irreversible impairment in cognitive functions, including memory, executive function and personality. It has a serious impact on patients' quality of life. Naftidrofuryl has been suggested as a treatment for dementia which may work by increasing the oxygen supply to brain tissue. The low-quality evidence shows that naftidrofuryl may have benefits on performance, behaviour, cognition, and mood for patients with dementia. However, these benefits fail to translate into reliable clinically detectable changes. Naftidrofuryl orally administrated is well-tolerated.
Authors' conclusions:
Oral administration of naftidrofuryl is well-tolerated by patients with dementia.The low-quality evidence shows that, by use of naftidrofuryl, people with dementia may benefit on performance, behaviour, cognition, and mood. However, the benefit on global impression is inconsistent and unconvincing.
Read the full abstract...
Background:
Dementia is a brain disorder characterized by the permanent loss of higher cognitive functions. A number of vasodilatory drug treatments are prescribed for dementia. Naftidrofuryl is one such medicine which is reported to improve clinical symptoms significantly. The efficacy and possible adverse events of naftidrofuryl need to be reviewed systematically and assessed critically to inform clinical practice and guide the continued search for new treatment regimens.
Objectives:
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of naftidrofuryl in the treatment of dementia.
Search strategy:
We searched ALOIS: the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group's Specialized Register on 11 January 2011 using the terms: naftidrofuryl. ALOIS contains records of clinical trials from major healthcare databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, LILACS and CINAHL), trial registries (such as ClinicalTrials.gov) and grey literature sources.
Selection criteria:
Randomised placebo-controlled trials in which patients with dementia were treated with naftidrofuryl were considered eligible for inclusion.
Data collection and analysis:
Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion, assessed trial quality, and extracted data using data extraction forms. The domains assessed for risk of bias were sequence generation, allocation concealment, blinding, incomplete outcome data, and selective outcome reporting. We used odds ratios (OR) for reporting dichotomous data, and mean differences (MD) and standardized mean differences (SMD) for continuous data. We assessed statistical heterogeneity using the I2 statistic.
Main results:
We identified nine randomised controlled trials involving 847 patients with Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, mixed dementia, senile dementia and unspecified dementia. The beneficial effects were found on functional performance and behaviour (-1.04 standardized points, 95% CI -1.73 to -0.35, P = 0.003) with a high-level heterogeneity (I2 = 54%), and mood (-0.80 standardized points, 95% CI -1.26 to -0.34, P=0.0006) for patients with dementia, as well as on cognitive function (-0.36 standardized points, 95% CI -0.71 to -0.02, P=0.04). However, this was not confirmed by clinical global measures. Naftidrofuryl was found to be well-tolerated by patients with dementia.
You may also be interested in:
No evidence that folic acid with or without vitamin B12 improves cognitive function of unselected elderly people with or without dementia. Long-term supplementation may benefit cognitive function of healthy older people with high homocysteine levels
No evidence of benefit from vitamin B6 supplementation on mood or cognition of older people with normal vitamin B6 status or with vitamin B6 deficiency
Atypical antipsychotics benefit people with dementia but the risks of adverse events may outweigh the benefits, particularly with long term treatment
Limited evidence that propentofylline benefits cognition, global function and activities of daily living in people with Alzheimer's disease and/or vascular dementia
Insufficient evidence of benefits of vinpocetine for people with dementia
Health topics:
Mental health > Dementia & cognition > Interventions aimed at interrupting disease processes
Neurology > Dementia & cognition > Treatment aimed at interrupting disease processes
Published:
7 December 2011
Authors:
Lu D, Song H, Hao Z, Wu T, McCleery J
Primary Review Group:
Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group
See the full Review on
the Cochrane Library
►
Print
PDF
Citation
Lu D, Song H, Hao Z, Wu T, McCleery J. Naftidrofuryl for dementia. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2011, Issue 12. Art. No.: CD002955. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002955.pub4
Who is talking about this article?
Our health evidence - how can it help you?
Our evidence
About us
Join Cochrane
News and jobs
Cochrane Library
►
Our funders and partners
◄
►
See more
Cochrane
About Cochrane
Cochrane.org
Who we are
Get involved
Consumer Network
Partners
Colloquium
In the news
Publications
Cochrane Library
Library homepage
Cochrane Reviews (CDSR)
Trials (CENTRAL)
Cochrane Clinical Answers
Cochrane Library App
Journal Club
Podcasts
Community
Community
Archie log-in
Training and support
Methods
Software
Jobs and opportunities
Contact us
General enquiries
Cochrane Library support
Chief Executive Officer
Editor in Chief
Cochrane Groups
Media
Trusted evidence.
Informed decisions.
Better health.
Copyright © 2019 The Cochrane Collaboration
Index | Disclaimer | Privacy | Cookie policy
We use cookies to improve your experience on our site. OK More information