Try these yoga mudras 5 minutes everyday to ease up your asthma symptoms | Yoga
Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Miscellaneous
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Pregnancy & Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Health A to Z
Videos
Slideshows
Health News
Baby Names
Experts
QNA
Menu
Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Pregnancy & Parenting
Relationships
Health A to Z
Videos
हिंदी
✖
Health
diet & fitness
Yoga
Try these yoga mudras 5 minutes everyday to ease up your asthma symptoms
Yoga By Onlymyhealth Staff Writer , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Aug 21, 2017
Quick Bites
Yoga mudras are very useful for the asthma condition.
Asthma mudra is very effective mudra for preventing asthma attacks.
Bronchial mudra is another effective mudra for treating asthma.
There are two mudras in Yoga that are very useful for the asthma condition. These are called the asthma mudra and the bronchial mudra. In addition to yogasanas for asthmatics, you can perform these two one after another, and continue till the breathing calms down. You need to do these for five times each day for 5 minutes each.
Method of asthma mudra
Fold the middle finger of both your hands so that their fingernails are positioned as touching each other. Keep the other fingers of both the hands straight and extended as much as possible. This is considered to be a very effective mudra for preventing asthma attacks.
Method of bronchial mudra
Place your little finger at the bottom of the thumb and the ring finger on the upper thumb joint. Now, place the middle finger on the pad of the thumb and likewise expand your index finger. Make use of this mudra for at least 4 to 6 minutes.
These two mudras complement each other in their effect on treating asthma. You need to focus on your breathing while performing these mudras. Bring your consciousness on your abdomen, stomach, chest, throat, forehead and the head’s top; i.e. at the seven chakras. Hold your breath for about five seconds after each inhalation and exhalation.
When you exhale, bring your consciousness from top to bottom, counting backwards from 7 to 1. You should be able to patiently bear with urge to breathe in after this. As the inhale starts to come, bring your consciousness from bottom to the top of the head. You should understand that the pause that you take after inhaling as well as exhaling are important phases for the treatment to work.
Mudras are very useful for the treatment of asthma as they have an impact on the biological map on the brain of a person. Medical science calls it the homonculous man. This is sought to be manipulated through the mudras in order to produce a positive effect on your autonomous nervous system, which controls your heart rate and breath rate. With the help of these mudras, you can gain control over your heart and breath rate, which is not the easiest thing to achieve.
You can also use these yogic techniques for treating other respiratory problems. Finding 5 minutes for 5 minutes in your day cannot be too difficult for effective treatment of asthma.
Image Source: Getty
Written by: Onlymyhealth Staff Writer
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial team Aug 21, 2017
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Trending Topics
Method of Bronchial Mudra
Method of Asthma Mudra
Treatment of Asthma with Mudras
Related Article
These Effective Asanas and Remedies Can Help You Ease Your Asthma
7 Yoga Poses you Can Do Using a Chair
Try these Yoga Poses for Better Sleep
Yoga Poses to Boost Your Mood in Minutes
10 Surprising Symptoms of Acid Reflux
Yoga isn't of much Help for Asthma Patients
Trending Article
Having back pain trouble? Try these yoga mudras and asanas for back pain relief
Try out these asanas to ease your asthma
Most common Asthma Symptoms in Children
Foods to Avoid in Gastritis
You can easily manage with only these 5 items in your makeup bag
Yoga Poses to Boost Your Mood in Minutes
Loading...
Try these Yoga Poses for Better Sleep
10 Surprising Symptoms of Acid Reflux
Herbs that Cure Migraine
Yoga mudras for a healthy body and mind
Sculpt your Looks in just 5 Minutes!
Awards and Recognition
Drivers of Digital 2018
Best Healthcare Website
Indian Content leadership Awards 2018
Best Content in a Healthcare/ Fitness Website
Global Digital Marketing Awards 2017
Best Digital Publication (Health/ Medical Industry)
Digipub Award 2017
Website of the Year (Lifestyle Infotainment) - Gold
Digixx 2019
Digital Marketing Excellence in Healthcare/Pharma – Gold Winner
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
Subscribe Our Newsletter
Creativity happenes everywhere.
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Copyright © 2019 MMI ONLINE LTD
Home
About us
Management
Contact us
Privacy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK