Dementia – Nature's Vitamins
Skip to content
All Natural Supplements Proudly Made in the USA
(949) 770-3079
FacebookTwitterPinterestInstagram
My Account
account
Nature's Vitamins
A family owned high quality vitamin and supplement store
Home
About
Shop
Viva Vitamins
Blog
Contact Us
$0.000
No products in the cart.
Subtotal: $0.00
View Cart Checkout
Home
About
Shop
Viva Vitamins
Blog
Contact Us
Category Archives: Dementia
You are here:
Home
Category "Dementia"
NIH Study Links Lack of Sleep and Alzheimer’s Risk
Alzheimer's Disease, Dementia, SleepBy developer May 12, 2018
According to a new small study, researchers at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have found experiencing even one night of sleeplessness may lead to an immediate increase in beta-amyloid, a protein found in the brain and associated with Alzheimer’s disease. Beta-amyloid proteins clump to together to form amyloid plaques in people with this Alzheimer’s…
Magnesium Status and Dementia: Is There a Link ?
Alzheimer's Disease, Brain, brain health, Cognitive Function, Dementia, MagnesiumBy developer October 6, 2017
A new study published in Neurology, shows people with either low or high blood levels of Magnesium may have a higher risk of developing dementia. Approximately 9,500 individuals participated in this prospective study. Participants with an average age of 65 who did not have dementia were followed for an average of 8 years. Serum Magnesium…
Folic Acid and Dementia: Supplementation Benefits Elderly People with Mild Cognitive Decline
Alzheimer's Disease, Brain, brain health, Cognitive Function, Dementia, Folic AcidBy developer June 30, 2017
Elderly people with mild cognitive impairment saw significant improvements in both cognitive performance and reduced inflammation when supplementing with 400 mcg of Folic Acid daily for a period of 12 months. Over 150 seniors with mild cognitive impairment were randomly assigned to two groups. One group received daily Folic Acid supplementation (400 mcg) and the…
Omega-3 Could Aid Alzheimer’s Prevention
Alzheimer's Disease, Brain, brain health, Dementia, Omega 3By developer June 3, 2017
New research finds individuals with high Omega-3 intakes have an increase in blood flow in the brain suggesting a link might exist between Omega-3 and Alzheimer’s Disease. Over 160 randomly selected people participated in this trial. These participants were taken from clinics and their brain function was studied using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). …
Vitamins May Have Larger Role in Halting Brain Decline
B Vitamins, Brain, brain health, Dementia, Folic Acid, VitaminsBy developer May 31, 2017
A new review claims folate and related B Vitamins play a role in slowing down brain function decline as well as playing a role in age-related depression. These findings look at certain B Vitamins as being equally as successful in supporting the reduction in the risk of mental and cognitive disorders which occur with aging,…
Could Folic Acid Decrease Dementia Risk?
Brain, brain health, Dementia, Folic AcidBy developer December 31, 2016
Research suggests daily supplementation with folic acid may reduce the risk of having dementia in populations with low levels of this B vitamin and no program to fortify the diet with this nutraceutical. Data from over 1,300 participants was analyzed. Face to face interviews were done at the beginning of this study, the Three-City Study,…
Probiotics Improve Cognitive Function Among Patients With Severe Dementia
Brain, brain health, Cognitive Function, Dementia, ProbioticsBy developer November 19, 2016
A new clinical trial with Alzheimer’s patients shows that probiotics may improve cognitive function in humans. Prior studies showing probiotics benefits for improvements in memory and learning as well as anxiety and depression reduction have been done with mice. 60 patients with Alzheimer’s disease participated in this double blind, controlled trial. Patients ranged in age…
© 2016 Earth Wise Nutrition. All Rights Reserved.
Shipping Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Website Design by Web Casa Design
footer
Go to Top