A Parent’s Guide: How to Manage Your Child’s Fever at Home
Super Speciality Hospital
24 x 7 Mumbai: 022 61538989
Mumbai
Mumbai Pune Jaipur
Book an Appointment
NABH - Pre Accreditation Entry Level Hospital
About Us
Who We Are
Our Infrastructure
From the MD’s Desk
Vision and Mission
Our Directors
Our Management
Awards and Certification
Journey of Surya Hosptials
Corporate Tie Ups
Locations
Mumbai
Pune
Jaipur
Centers Of Excellence
Paediatrics
General Paediatrics
Pediatric Intensive Care
Paediatric Surgery
Paediatric Superspecialty
Neurology
Orthopaedic
Haematology & Oncology
General Surgery
Endocrinologists
View All >>
Neonatal Care
NICU
Women Care
Laparoscopic Surgery
Specialized Endoscopy Centre
Obstetrics and Gynaecology
View All >>
Patients Care
Book an Appointment
Patient Guide
Success stories
Visitors
OPD Details
IPD Services
Our Specialists
Hospital Gallery
Patient Education Programs
Events
International Patients
Plan Your Trip
Testimonials
FAQs
Corporate
Clients
Medical Professionals
Our specialists
Academic Initiatives
CME
Blog
Quicklinks
Enquiry
Ask a Doctor
Diagnostics
Emergency Services
Brochures
A Parent’s Guide: How to Manage Your Child’s Fever at Home
Home
Paediatrics
A Parent’s Guide: How to Manage Your Child’s Fever at Home
When your child is sick with an infection (caused either by bacteria or virus), it is common for them to have a fever. In most cases, a fever will not hurt a child and will usually go away after 72 hours (3 days). Babies younger than 6 months should see a doctor when they have a fever. Older children can be treated at home as long as they get enough liquids and seem well otherwise. However, they should also see a doctor if their fever lasts for longer than 48 hours.
Common Methods for Taking Your Child’s Temperature
Rectal method (by the rectum or ‘bum’)
Oral method (by the mouth)
Axillary method (under the armpit)
Tympanic method (in the ear)
The right method depends on your child’s age. It’s important that the measurement is accurate.
For instance, taking a rectal temperature is still the best way to get an exact reading for children younger than 2 years, but most children don’t like to have their temperature taken this way. Although taking a temperature under the armpit isn’t as precise, it may let you know whether your child has a fever.
Guidelines for Temperature-taking
Do not use a mercury thermometer. If it breaks, you and your child may be exposed to this toxic substance.
Do not use an oral thermometer to take a rectal temperature or a rectal thermometer for oral temperature taking.
A digital thermometer can be used for both rectal and oral temperature taking. It is made of unbreakable plastic, is easy to read and measures temperature quickly.
Ear thermometers are expensive and can be complicated to use.
Age Recommended Techniques
The method used for taking the temperature depends on the child’s age.
Birth to 2 years
1st choice: Rectum (for an accurate reading)
2nd choice: Armpit
2-5 Years
1st choice: Rectum (for an accurate reading)
2nd choice: Ear, armpit
5 Years or Older
1st choice: Mouth (for an accurate reading)
2nd choice: Ear, armpit
Tips for Taking Your Child’s Temperature
To get an accurate reading of your child’s temperature, you’ll need to make sure it’s done right. Here’s how:
Rectum
Clean the thermometer with cool, soapy water and rinse
Cover the silver tip with petroleum jelly (such as Vaseline)
Place your baby on his back with his knees bent
Gently insert the thermometer in the rectum, about 2.5 cm (1 inch), holding it in place with your fingers
After about 1 minute, you will hear the ‘beep’
Remove the thermometer and read the temperature
Clean the thermometer
Armpit
The armpit (axillary) method is usually used to check for fever in newborn and young children but is not as accurate as a rectal temperature. If an axillary temperature does not identify a fever but your child feels warm and seems unwell, confirm the temperature with a rectal measurement.
Use a rectal or oral thermometer
Clean the thermometer with cool, soapy water and rinse
Place the tip of the thermometer in the centre of the armpit
Make sure your child’s arm is tucked snugly against her body
Leave the thermometer in place for about 1 minute, until you hear the ‘beep’
Remove the thermometer and read the temperature
Clean the thermometer
Mouth
The mouth (oral) method is not recommended for children younger than 5 years because it is hard for them to hold the thermometer still under their tongue long enough to take a reading
Clean the thermometer with cool, soapy water and rinse
Carefully place the tip of the thermometer under your child’s tongue
With your child’s mouth closed, leave the thermometer in place for about 1 minute, until you hear the ‘beep’
Remove the thermometer and read the temperature
Clean the thermometer
Ear
Though easy and quick to use, the ear (tympanic) method can produce temperature readings that are too low, even when manufacturer’s directions are followed. It is not considered to be as reliable or accurate as rectal temperature taking
Use a clean probe tip each time and follow the manufacturer’s instructions carefully
Gently tug on the ear, pulling it back. This will help straighten the ear canal and make a clear path inside the ear to the eardrum
Gently insert the thermometer until the ear canal is fully sealed off
Squeeze and hold down the button for 1 second
Remove the thermometer and read the temperature
Normal temperature Ranges
Method Temperature Range (in °C) Temperature Range (in °F)
Rectal 36.6°C to 38°C 97.9°F to 100.4°F
Oral 35.5°C to 37.5°C 95.9°F to 99.5°F
Axillary 34.7°C to 37.3°C 94.5°F to 99.1°F
Tympanic 35.8°C to 38°C 96.4°F to 100.4°F
What Should I do if my Child Has a Fever?
The degree (or height) of a fever does not tell you how serious your child’s illness is. How a child acts is usually a better sign. A child with a mild infection can have a high fever, while a child with a severe infection may have no fever at all. Keep your child comfortable and offer plenty of fluids.
If your baby has a fever, remove extra blankets and clothing so heat can leave her body and help lower the body temperature, but don’t take off all of your child’s clothes because she may become too cold and start shivering, which produces more body heat, causing the temperature to rise again. Sponging your child with tepid (lukewarm) water, alcohol baths, and rubs are not recommended.
Medication is not always needed to reduce a child’s temperature. In fact, the best reason for giving your child medicine is not to reduce the fever but to relieve associated aches and pains.
Paracetamol (such as crocin, calpol, etc and others) is the best medication for a fever. Unless your physician says otherwise, parents can give the dose recommended on the package every 4 hours until the child’s temperature comes down. The temperature usually comes down in 1.5 to 2 hours and then rises again, in which case the medication may have to be repeated. It is important not to exceed 5 doses in 24 hours.
You can also use ibuprofen, which is found in products such as ibugesic. Be sure to follow the directions on the package. Ibuprofen can be given every 6 to 8 hours, up to 4 times in a 24-hour period. Ensure that you do not exceed the recommended dose.
Warning: Do not give acetaminophen and ibuprofen at the same time.
When to Seek Help
While fever may not cause damage, it can be a cause of concern if your child,
Has a fever higher than 39°C
Has a fever and is younger than 6 months
Has a fever for longer than 48 hours
Is excessively cranky, fussy or irritable
Is excessively sleepy, lethargic or does not respond
Is persistently wheezing or coughing
Has a fever and a rash or any other signs of illness that worry you
This information should not be used as a substitute for the medical care and advice of your paediatrician.
---
Surya group of hospitals are a pioneer in modern healthcare services for women and children since 1985. We offer cutting-edge facilities along with a staff that’s highly acclaimed in their field – including paediatric experts. To book an appointment in Pune with Dr. Sachin Shah, please call 020 67915400/01.
Dr. Sachin Shah
Dr. Sachin Shah is a director at Surya Mother and Child Super Speciality Hospital. He holds an MD (Pediatrics) and DM (Neonatology). He completed his fellowship in Neonatology from Australia and Canada and Paediatric Critical Care from Canada
Center of Exellence
© Surya Hospitals
Paediatrics
General Paediatrics
Pediatric Intensive Care
Paediatric Superspecialty
Neurology
Orthopaedics
Hemato-Oncology
General Surgery
Endocrinologists
Neonatal Care
Neonatal ICU
Women Care
Fetal Medicine
Laparoscopic Surgery
Obstetrics and Gynaecology
Oncology
Radiology
Useful links
Blog
Media
Gallery
Careers
Contact Us
Feedback
Disclaimer
TPA on Panel
Select Location
Please select your location Mumbai Pune Jaipur
Set as default location
ASK A DOCTOR
Select Location (required)MumbaiPune