Dermatophyte infections – Knowledge for medical students and physicians
AMBOSS
Sign up /
Log in
Menu
AMBOSS
Prepare and succeed on your medical exams
START FREE TRIAL
Get 5 days of free access
Study with AMBOSS for: STEP 1 | STEP 2 CK | STEP 2 CS | Shelf Exams
Open
Clinical science
Dermatophyte infections (Dermatophytoses)
Summary
Dermatophyte infections, also known as tinea, are the most common fungal infections of the skin, hair, and nails. The term “dermatophyte” refers to fungal species that infect keratinized tissue, and includes members of the Trichophyton, Microsporum, and Epidermophyton genera. Tinea are classified based on their location (e.g., tinea pedis occurs on the feet and tinea capitis on the scalp). Children and immunocompromised individuals are more likely to contract tinea infections, especially tinea capitis. However, people of all ages may suffer from tinea pedis or tinea unguium. The clinical features of dermatophyte infection include pruritus, scaling, and erythema. The best initial test for the diagnosis of dermatophyte infection is potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparation, which allows segmented hyphae to be seen on microscopy. Generally, the treatment for dermatophyte infections is topical antifungals. Oral antifungals (e.g., terbinafine, griseofulvin) are always used in tinea capitis and are also used for severe, refractory cases of other kinds of tinea. Concomitant tinea infections in household members or pets should be treated as well.
Tinea versicolor, despite its name, is not caused by dermatophytes and is discussed in another learning card.
Overview
General
Definition: skin, hair, and nail infections caused by dermatophytes
Pathogen: Dermatophytes are fungi that infect keratinized tissue and belong to the Trichophyton (most common), Microsporum, and Epidermophyton genera.
Risk factors
Diabetes mellitus
Immune compromise (e.g., HIV)
Poor circulation, peripheral arterial disease
Maceration of skin (e.g., in athletes)
Location
Foot: Tinea pedis
Body: Tinea corporis
Scalp: Tinea capitis
Nails: Tinea unguium
Inguinal area: Tinea cruris
Diagnosis of dermatophyte infections
Best initial test: KOH preparation, possibly with fungal stain, showing segmented hyphae
Confirmatory test: fungal culture
Wood's light: yellow-green fluorescence of Microsporum species
Treatment of dermatophyte infections
Topical antifungals
Indication: dermatophyte infections other than tinea capitis
Agents: e.g., terbinafine; 1% for 1 week, azoles, allylamines, butenafine, ciclopirox, tolnaftate, and undecanoate
Systemic antifungal therapy
Indications
Tinea capitis
Failed topical treatment
Immunocompromised patients
Extensive spread
Some cases of tinea unguium
Agents: terbinafine, itraconazole, fluconazole, and griseofulvin
Chemical and surgical treatments for onychomycosis
Chemical removal of nail (e.g., with high dose urea or potassium iodide)
Surgical removal of the nail is indicated if systemic therapy is not effective.
Examination and treatment of members of the household and pets
Because topical treatments are unable to penetrate the hair shaft, systemic therapy with oral antifungals such as griseofulvin or terbinafine is necessary in tinea capitis!
To prevent tinea infections from spreading, contaminated objects should not be shared (e.g., shoes, combs). Other members of the household and pets who are infected should also receive treatment!
References:[1][2][3][4][5]
Tinea
Tinea pedis (athlete's foot)
Definition: dermatophyte infection of the foot
Epidemiology
Affects adults and adolescents
Most common tinea infection
Predisposing factors
Closed, tight footwear
Public showers
Clinical features by type
Interdigital (most common): chronic, pruritic, erythematous scaling and erosions between the toes
Moccasin: hyperkeratotic thickening of skin on soles of feet
Vesicular: pruritic or painful vesicular lesions and erythema, often on the medial foot
Diagnosis and treatment: See the overview of dermatophyte infections above.
Complication: secondary bacterial superinfection (e.g., erysipelas)
Prevention
Foot powders and open shoes in warm, humid weather
Antifungal treatment of shoes
Footwear for public showers
Tinea corporis (ringworm)
Definition: dermatophyte infection affecting a location other than feet, scalp, nails, and groin
Predisposing factors
Contact with infected individuals or animals
Moist environments (e.g., public swimming pool facilities)
Clinical presentation
Initially round, pruritic, erythematous plaque that grows centrifugally
Develops into round, pruritic plaque with central clearing and a scaling, raised border
Diagnosis and treatment: See the overview of dermatophyte infections above.
Tinea capitis
Definition: dermatophyte infection affecting the scalp
Epidemiology: mainly occurs in children
Pathogen: Trichophyton tonsurans (most common), Microsporum canis, Microsporum audouinii
Clinical presentation:
Round, pruritic scaly plaques with broken hair shafts or alopecia in affected areas
May mimic seborrheic dermatitis
Kerion: severe form of tinea capitis characterized by a deep, boggy plaque with pustule formation
Postauricular lymphadenopathy
Diagnosis and treatment: See the overview of dermatophyte infections above.
Prevention
Avoid sharing combs and hats with infected individuals.
Antifungal treatment of contaminated objects
Evaluation and treatment of household contacts and pets
Prognosis
Usually good; hair regrows completely
Protracted infection and kerion may result in permanent alopecia.
Favus
Definition
Chronic infection caused by Trichophyton schoenleinii
Severe form of tinea capitis
Epidemiology: more common in Africa, the Middle East, and the Mediterranean
Clinical presentation: formation of yellow, malodorous crust with subsequent scarring alopecia
Treatment
Oral griseofulvin
Additional topical antimycotic agents
Tinea unguium (onychomycosis)
Definition: fungal infection of the nail
Pathogen
Mostly dermatophytes (most commonly T. rubrum)
Rarely yeast and molds
Clinical presentation: discolored (white, gray, or yellow) and brittle nails
Diagnosis and treatment: See the overview of dermatophyte infections above.
The successful treatment of onychomycosis involves not only the elimination of sources of infection, but also the promotion of personal hygiene, the disinfection of footwear, and the elimination of predisposing factors!
Tinea cruris (jock itch)
Definition: fungal infection of the inguinal area
Clinical presentation:
Pruritic erythematous plaque that grows centrifugally
Similar to tinea capitis but often without central clearing
Scaling, raised border
Spares the scrotum
Diagnosis and treatment: See the overview of dermatophyte infections above.
References:[1][6][7][8][8][9][10][11]
Differential diagnoses
Impetigo
Seborrheic dermatitis
Tinea versicolor
Herald patch (→ pityriasis rosea)
Cutaneous candidiasis
Erythrasma
Contact dermatitis
Psoriasis
[2][3]
The differential diagnoses listed here are not exhaustive.
Sources
1. Le T, Bhushan V, Chen V, King M. First Aid for the USMLE Step 2 CK. McGraw-Hill Education; 2015.
2. Lesher JL Jr. Tinea Corporis. In: Tinea Corporis. New York, NY: WebMD. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1091473. Updated August 8, 2016. Accessed March 29, 2017.
3. Robbins CM. Tinea Pedis. In: Tinea Pedis. New York, NY: WebMD. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1091684. Updated August 5, 2016. Accessed March 29, 2017.
4. Goldstein AO, Bhatia N. Onychomycosis: Management. In: Post TW, ed. UpToDate. Waltham, MA: UpToDate. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/onychomycosis-management. Last updated February 14, 2017. Accessed March 29, 2017.
5. Hainer BL. Dermatophyte infections. Am Fam Physician. 2003; 67(1): pp. 101–8. pmid: 12537173.
6. Le T, Bhushan V. First Aid for the USMLE Step 1 2015. McGraw-Hill Education; 2014.
7. James WD, Berger T, Elston D. Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Health Sciences; 2015.
8. Marks JG Jr, Miller JJ . Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology. Saunders Elsevier; 2013.
9. Goldstein AO, Goldstein BG. Dermatophyte (tinea) infections. In: Post TW, ed. UpToDate. Waltham, MA: UpToDate. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/dermatophyte-tinea-infections?source=search_result&search=tinea%20infections&selectedTitle=1~142#H300483. Last updated November 23, 2015. Accessed February 20, 2017.
10. Handler MZ. Tinea Capitis. In: Tinea Capitis. New York, NY: WebMD. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1091351. Updated May 13, 2016. Accessed March 29, 2017.
11. Goldstein AO. Onychomycosis: Epidemiology, Clinical Features, and Diagnosis. In: Post TW, ed. UpToDate. Waltham, MA: UpToDate. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/onychomycosis-epidemiology-clinical-features-and-diagnosis. Last updated June 26, 2017. Accessed May 14, 2018.
Tips & Links
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Ringworm
last updated 01/22/2019
{{uncollapseSections(['zR0rpf', 'NpX-p_', 'OpXIp_', '5jciac0'])}}
Dermatophyte infections
Summary
Overview
General
Diagnosis of dermatophyte infections
Treatment of dermatophyte infections
Tinea
Tinea pedis (athlete's foot)
Tinea corporis (ringworm)
Tinea capitis
Tinea unguium (onychomycosis)
Tinea cruris (jock itch)
Differential diagnoses
AMBOSS
Prepare and succeed on your medical exams
Find hundreds of Learning Cards covering all clinical subjects
Practice answering thousands of USMLE-formatted multiple choice questions in the Qbank
Explore concepts in depth with interactive images, videos and charts
Fill knowledge gaps with the help of supportive features and an analysis of your progress
START FREE TRIAL
Get 5 days of free access
© 2019 AMBOSS
Medical Knowledge
Terms and Conditions
Privacy
Legal Notice
Get Support & Contact Us
×
×
It appears that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings and reload this page to access AMBOSS.