
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 22:48:16 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Probiotics in Pediatrics — Using Friendly Bacteria to Treat Health Conditions Home About Contact Media Kit Advertise Job Bank Writers' Guidelines Subscribe Current Issue Article Archive Digital Edition Newsletters Today's CPE Events Product Directories Gift Shop Heart Health Diabetes Allergies Nutrition Support Supplements Weight Control Green Health Food Safety Nutrition by Age Professional Growth January 2010 Issue Probiotics in  Pediatrics — Using Friendly Bacteria to Treat Health Conditions By Christen C.  Cooper, MS, RD Today’s Dietitian Vol. 12 No. 1 P. 24 Although currently  limited, research suggests that these microorganisms may help prevent and  manage gastrointestinal troubles in youngsters. It’s not the stuff of horror movies but a fact of nature:  Your gut is crawling with bugs. But don’t despair. These bugs are small and if you’re  healthy, most of them are friendly. The bugs we’re talking about are the  millions of bacteria that colonize the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract  beginning with an infant’s journey down the birth canal. This collection of  microflora, comprised of a number of bacterial strains, changes over the life  span due to alterations in diet, exposure to pathogens, and age-related changes  in GI functioning. The number and strength of beneficial bacteria vs.  potentially harmful bacteria can impact many aspects of human health.  Significant evidence indicates that a preponderance of friendly microflora  plays an important role in nutrition, digestion, and immunity. A healthy  bacterial balance may help ward off a number of conditions that manifest in the  intestines and some conditions that affect distant organs. Studies have shown that probiotics may benefit not only  adults but also infants and children. By analyzing the available evidence,  dietitians can provide parents with appropriate guidance on probiotic use in  children. For most conditions, probiotic research is limited. However, research  on probiotics is expanding at a rapid pace, and many preventive and therapeutic  uses will likely emerge over the next several years. What Are Probiotics? According to the National Center for Complementary and  Alternative Medicine, probiotics are live microorganisms—usually bacteria, but  they can also be microbes such as yeasts—that people can ingest to bolster the  population of desirable bacteria in the gut. Probiotics exist naturally in some  foods and are also available as dietary supplements in powder, capsule, and  tablet forms. The World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture  Organization of the United Nations call probiotics the “live microorganisms,  which, when administered in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit on the host.” Most probiotic bacteria are similar to the beneficial  bacteria that occur naturally in the gut, including those of the Lactobacillus species (eg, L. acidophilus ). Infants acquire other  bacteria during their first months, mainly those of the Bifidobacterium and Enterobacter species. Bifidobacterium species  dominate in the gut of breast-fed infants, whereas Enterobacter microbes dominate in bottle-fed infants. This  difference in species, which has been identified as key to breast-fed infants’  superior immunity to many infections, has spurred much of the medical and  pediatric communities’ interest in probiotics. Infant formula manufacturers  have also taken interest. In 2002, the industry secured FDA designation of  specific strains of B. lactis and Streptococcus thermophilus as substances  generally recognized as safe (GRAS) in milk-based formulas for infants aged 4  months and older.1 Common foods containing probiotics include fermented and  unfermented milk, miso, tempeh, and some juices, smoothies, nutrition bars, and  soy drinks. The most common strains found in yogurt are L. bulgaricus and S.  thermophilus . Yogurts labeled as having “live active cultures” must have  100 million live active bacteria per gram. The American Dietetic Association classifies probiotics as  functional foods because they appear to confer benefits beyond nutrition.2 How They Work How do probiotics protect the body against disease? The  favorable bacteria in the gut constantly defend the body against foreign  microbes that, when left unchecked, may lead to illness. Current evidence  suggests that helping the gut’s fleet of good bacteria grow and thrive by  ingesting probiotics can help humans defend their health in a number of ways,  not all of which are fully understood. According to a recent report in the Journal of Pediatric Health Care ,  effective probiotics are microorganisms that can survive the acidic environment  of the upper GI tract, adhere to the colon, and begin to colonize and confer  benefits to the host. Probiotic researchers stress that no two bacterial  strains have the same effects in the body, and the mechanisms by which they  fight disease also vary. Individuals may also respond differently to  probiotics, which makes predicting their precise effects difficult.3 Some probiotics strengthen the gut’s mucosal barrier so that  pathogens cannot adhere to it. Some also deter disease-causing bacteria by  lowering the pH of the lower intestine, creating an unfavorable environment for  pathogens. Lactobacillus species work  by producing bacteriocins, hydrogen peroxide, and biosurfactants, which help  keep pathogens at bay.3 Still others protect the colon by enhancing the immune  response of molecules such as immunoglobulin A and T1 helper cells.1,3 Other  probiotics help enhance allergy-mediated responses by inhibiting immunoglobulin  E antibody production.4 Probiotics in  Pediatrics For years, parents have independently administered  probiotics, especially yogurt, to their children to prevent and treat mild  conditions such as diarrhea. In recent years, the alternative and mainstream  medical communities have become increasingly interested in and supportive of  particular probiotics and some prebiotics to prevent and treat a number of  other, often more complex conditions. Since 2005, Martin Floch, MD, of Yale School of Medicine has  led periodic academic workshops that bring together the world’s top GI  physicians and probiotic researchers to update and generate high-level  recommendations based on primary literature. Many of the studies cited herein  reflect the findings of this group.5 Also reflected are studies highlighted by Beth Wallace, RD,  CNSC, LDN, of the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia in her review on the  clinical use of probiotics in children in the February/March 2009 issue of Nutrition  in Clinical Practice . Her paper analyzes the latest findings on  probiotics and the diseases for which they seem to have veritable impact,  including irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), Crohn’s disease, pediatric diarrheas,  short-bowel syndrome, HIV, and food allergies.1 Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea Antibiotics can upset the gut’s bacterial balance by  eliminating both undesirable and desirable bacteria, which lowers the body’s  defenses against other types of invaders, including bacteria, yeasts, fungi, and  parasites. Some physicians and dietitians recommend probiotics for children on  antibiotic therapy to help replace beneficial bacteria and reduce the risk of  antibiotic-associated diarrhea, which occurs in 40% of children on  antibiotics.1 The scientific literature supports probiotic use to prevent  antibiotic-associated diarrhea, which can occur anytime up to two months after  antibiotic use. The Yale physicians’ conference on probiotics cited a recent  meta-analysis of 10 randomized, controlled trials on probiotics and  antibiotic-associated diarrhea that appeared in the Journal of Clinical  Gastroenterology in 2008. The study “confirms the efficacy of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (LGG) and S. boulardii in children.”6 They cited a  2007 Cochrane Database of Systemic Reviews that demonstrated the efficacy of a  drink containing a combination of L.  bulgaricus and S. thermophilus administered twice per day. The group’s overall rating for the use of  probiotics to prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea was strong.5 Wallace’s review cautions against recommending probiotics  for antibiotic-associated diarrhea until scientists better research the effects  of this treatment on people of different ages, the effects of single-strain  usage, and the effects of specific dosages.1 Clostridium Difficile-Associated Diarrhea Treatment for Clostridium  difficile -associated diarrhea is similar to that for antibiotic-associated  diarrhea; thus, the literature often discusses the two conditions together.  However, probiotic use to treat C. difficile -associated  diarrhea received a “B” from the Yale workshop participants due to lingering  debate on its effectiveness. Still, there are a number of studies that support  the effectiveness of LGG or S. boulardii for treating C. difficile -associated  diarrhea.6 Infectious Diarrhea Bacteria, viruses, or parasites in contaminated water or in  an environment of poor sanitation often cause infectious diarrhea. And  unfortunately, this condition spreads easily among children. Probiotics  received a “B” for the prevention of sporadic childhood infectious diarrhea,  mainly because the research on children in a day care setting showed that the  effects of using probiotics to prevent diarrhea were only “modest” and  statistically significant for certain strains.5 However, a battery of studies conducted worldwide suggests  that probiotics such as S. boulardii and L. rhamnosus strain GG (LGG) can  reduce the duration of diarrhea in infants and children. A 2003 Cochrane  Review, for example, analyzed data from 23 studies that together included data  for 1,499 children and 918 adults. Twenty-one of the studies used strains of  lactic acid bacilli and two used S.  boulardii . Nearly all of the studies showed significant reductions in  diarrhea duration among participants treated with probiotics. In 15 of the  studies, probiotics reduced the mean duration of diarrhea by 29.2 hours.1 Allergies Infants who are exclusively breast-fed have a lower risk of  developing atopic disease. Studies on probiotics to promote bowel wall  maturation and help prevent allergies represent a significant area of research.  The Yale group gave probiotic use for this purpose an “A,” although allergies  were discussed for the first time at the 2008 conference. The “A” applies to  the use of specific probiotics, especially LGG strains and B. lactis, for the  treatment of allergies that affect the intestine, such as eczema from cow’s  milk, in infants and children.5 A 2008 meta-analysis published in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical  Immunology analyzed six trials on probiotics and pediatric atopic  dermatitis prevention and treatment. Participants treated with probiotics  experienced a 61% risk reduction during the first two years of life. In  addition, the response was greatest among children who were the most allergen sensitive.1 IBS Individuals with IBS, which includes a collection of  symptoms such as diarrhea, constipation, bloating, abdominal distention, and an  urgency to defecate, tend to have a decrease in microbial colonies as compared  with healthy individuals. A few good-quality studies have bolstered the  evidence in favor of using probiotics to treat IBS. However, given the lack of  consistent research outcomes, the Yale group gave probiotics a “B to C”  rating.5 One randomized, placebo-controlled trial published in The  Journal of Pediatrics in 2005 looked at 50 children with IBS. The  children were randomized to a treatment group that received LGG in a  concentration of 10 billion CFU/day and a control group that received a  placebo. After the six-week study period, there were no significant differences  in the severity of abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, or indigestion  between the groups.1 A randomized, controlled trial published in Alimentary  Pharmacology & Therapeutics in 2007 looked at LGG use for kids with  IBS. Thirty-two participants had IBS and 72 did not, but the group of 104  children was evenly split into a treatment and a control group. All of the  children consumed an LGG oral supplement or a placebo twice daily for four  weeks. The LGG-treated group experienced 33% success (defined as “no pain”)  while the control group experienced 5% success. The researchers found no  significant differences between the groups in terms of other measured outcomes,  such as school absenteeism.1 Crohn’s Disease and Short-Bowel Syndrome Few data exist on the use of probiotics to treat Crohn’s  disease in children, although using LGG and other strains in conjunction with  conventional pharmacologic therapy shows some promise in studies on adults. The  Yale doctors gave the evidence on the effectiveness of probiotic use for  treating Crohn’s disease a quality rating of “C.”5 Research is also limited in terms of using probiotics in  pediatric cases of short-bowel syndrome, which involves an inability to  maintain macronutrient, electrolyte, and micronutrient balance with a  conventional diet due to intestinal resection or loss of absorption. The use of  probiotics for preventing necrotizing enterocolitis and short gut in neonates  has been well researched and is one of the more accepted types of alternative  treatments.1 HIV There is limited research on probiotics in treating  HIV-associated immune deficiencies and diarrhea. These two conditions are  interrelated in patients with HIV, since the disease damages immune cells,  rendering the body more susceptible to diarrhea and other conditions. Diarrhea  in patients with HIV then hinders the absorption of HIV medications and  decreases nutrient absorption. The body ends up weakened by the combination of  these problems.5 A study published in 2008 in the Journal of Tropical Pediatrics looked at the use of probiotics to boost intestinal flora and thereby increase  immune cell counts and decrease diarrhea in patients with HIV. The study  involved 77 children aged 2 to 12. The control group participants received  cow’s milk or standard cow’s milk-based infant formula. The treatment group  received milk or standard formula fortified with Bifidobacterium and S.  thermophilus daily for two months. The treatment group experienced  increased immune cell counts and a slight improvement in stool consistency. The  control group experienced a slight decrease in immune cell counts and did not  have improvements in stool consistency.1 Conclusions The use of probiotics in pediatrics has tripled in the past  five years.1 Clearly there is a demand for affordable, accessible alternatives  to traditional pharmaceuticals for a number of pediatric conditions. However,  the effects of most probiotics and some prebiotics have not been thoroughly  studied in children. Using probiotics and prebiotics, creating what are called  synbiotics, is another potential therapy since the prebiotics nourish and  fortify the probiotics to survive the upper GI tract. However, there is also  little evidence on the safety and effectiveness of this type of combined use in  clinical practice. For safety reasons, dietitians and other health  practitioners should caution patients who self-treat with probiotics in  supplement form that extended use or unsupervised use may not be entirely safe.  Individuals should divulge use of probiotics, like use of other types of  complementary and alternative medicines, to their physician. Overall, probiotics seem to have a bright future in  dietetics and in general medicine, as research in this area continues at a  quick and enthusiastic pace. The number of conditions that may respond to  probiotics is expanding. Conditions under study include vaginitis and  vaginosis, periodontal disease, respiratory and skin infections, growth  problems, genetic mutation, and even obesity. An example of a study in another key area of pediatrics is  the Trial of Infant Probiotic Supplementation currently under way at the  University of California, San Francisco. The study, which began in 2006, seeks  to determine whether probiotics can help prevent and treat pediatric asthma.  There are hundreds of other small and large studies aiming to test probiotics  as treatment, and especially as prevention, for myriad childhood diseases.6 Given the wide range of potential therapeutic and preventive  possibilities, discoveries in probiotics and prebiotics will offer dietitians,  physicians, and individuals a number of new options for curbing GI conditions  and perhaps ways to preserve the health of organs throughout the body. — Christen C. Cooper,  MS, RD, is a Pleasantville, N.Y.-based freelance health and nutrition writer.  She has worked in healthcare consulting in Latin America and the United States  and holds a master’s degree in nutrition education from Teachers College,  Columbia University. References 1. Wallace B. Clinical use of probiotics in the pediatric  population. Nutr Clin Pract . 2009;24(1):50-59. 2. Hasler CM, Brown AC; American Dietetic Association.  Position of the American Dietetic Association: Functional foods. J Am  Diet Assoc . 2009;109(4):735-746. 3. Young RJ, Huffman S. Probiotic use in children. J  Pediatr Health Care . 2003;17(6):277-283. 4. Roberfroid MB. Prebiotics and probiotics: Are they  functional foods? Am J Clin Nutr . 2000;71(6 Suppl):1682S-1687S. 5. Floch MH, Walker WA, Guandalini S, et al. Recommendations  for probiotic use—2008. J Clin Gastroenterol . 2008;42 Suppl  2:S104-S108. 6. Douaud C. Probiotics play increasing role in pediatric  research. May 25, 2007. Available at: http://www.nutraingredients-usa.com/content/view/print/180150 .  Last accessed October 29, 2009. Pediatric  Conditions Under Study for Treatment With Probiotics1,3 Condition Evidence Antibiotic-associated  diarrhea                                                 Strong Infectious  childhood diarrhea                                                  Strong Allergies                                                                                  Strong Clostridium difficile -associated  diarrhea                                   Moderate HIV                                                                                          Moderate Irritable  bowel syndrome                                                        Limited Crohn’s  disease                                                                      Limited Short-bowl  syndrome                                                              Limited industry news white papers jobs search Mini Babybel® Introduces Two New Flavors Trop 50 announces Lemonade flavors Precision Pro Digital Kitchen Scale Receives Rave Reviews as an Essential Tool for Healthy Living View all Industry News White Papers feature topic-specific essays from qualified industry professionals, adding even more of the unique insight and useful information that already attracts professionals to our magazine and website. Click here to view the White Papers » Loading Great Valley Publishing Company, Inc. 3801 Schuykill Road Spring City, PA 19475 Copyright © 2012. Publishers of Today's Dietitian. All rights reserved. Home About Contact Adverti