Content-Type: text/html

Mechanical Low Back Pain: Prevention Overview Objectives Prevalence / Costs Anatomy and Functional Concepts McKenzie Approach Treatable and Inappropriate Patients Three Mechanical LBP Syndromes Physician's Findings Subjective Lumbar Spine Assessments Objective Lumbar Spine Assessments Is Patient Treatable What Syndromes Are Present Treatment Progression Prevention Final Comment References Author: Gerald W. Browning , PhD, PT School of Health Professions, University of Missouri-Columbia Suggestions Permission for Use Mechanical Low Back Pain Prevention These recommendations apply to persons with posterior or posterior lateral 
    derangement, a flexion dysfunction, or a slumped postural condition. Postures in low back pain When in Acute Low Back
         Pain When Recovered from Acute Low Back Pain Sitting Sitting Driving a car Bending forwards Bending forwards Lifting Lifting Lying Coughing and sneezing Recurrence Remember Remember Prevention: General Instructions 
When in Acute Low Back Pain You must retain the lordosis at all times (lordosis is the hollow
in the lower back). Bending forwards as in touching the toes will
only stretch and weaken the supporting structures of the back and
lead to further injury. Losing the lordosis when sitting will also
cause further strain. Sitting When in acute pain you should sit as little as possible, and
   then only for short periods. At all times you must sit with a lordosis. Therefore you must
   place a supportive roll in the small of the back, especially when
   sitting in a car or lounge chair. If you have the choice you must sit on a firm, high chair
   with a straight back such as a kitchen chair. You should avoid
   sitting on a low, soft couch with a deep seat; this will force you
   to sit with hips lower than knees, and you will round the back and
   lose the lordosis. The legs must never be kept straight out in front as in
   sitting in bed, in the bath or on the floor; in this position you
   are forced to lose the lordosis. When rising from sitting you must retain the lordosis; move
   to the front of the seat, stand up by straightening the legs, and
   avoid bending forwards at the waist. Poor sitting postures are certain to keep you in pain or make
   you worse. Driving a Car When in acute pain you should drive the car as little as
   possible. It is better to be a passenger than to drive yourself. When driving, your seat must be close enough to the steering
   wheel to allow you to maintain the lordosis. If in this position
   your hips are lower than your knees you may be able to raise
   yourself by sitting on a pillow. Bending Forwards When in acute pain you should avoid activities which require
   bending forwards or stooping, as you will be forced to lose the
   lordosis. You may be able to retain the lordosis by kneeling--for
   example, when making the bed, vacuuming, cleaning the floor, or
   weeding the garden. Lifting When in acute pain you should avoid lifting altogether. If this is not possible you should at least not lift objects
   that are awkward or heavier than about thirty pounds. You must always use the correct lifting technique; during
   lifting the back must remain upright and never stoop or bend
   forwards; stand close to the load, have a firm footing and wide
   stance; bend the knees and keep the back straight; have a secure
   grip on the load; lift by straightening the knees; take a steady
   lift and do not jerk; shift your feet to turn and do not twist your
   back. Lying A good firm support is usually desirable when lying. If you bed
   is sagging, slats or plywood supports between mattress and base
   will firm it. You can also place the mattress on the floor, a
   simple but temporary solution. You may be more comfortable at night when you use a
   supportive roll. A rolled up towel, wound around your waist and
   tied down in front, is usually satisfactory. When rising from lying you must retain the lordosis; turn on
   one side, draw both knees up and drop the feet over the edge of
   the bed; sit up by pushing yourself up with the hands and avoid
   bending forwards at the waist. Coughing and Sneezing When in acute pain you must try to stand up, bend backwards and
   increase the lordosis while you cough and sneeze. Remember At all times you must retain the lordosis; if you slouch you
   will have discomfort and pain. Good posture is the key to spinal comfort. General
Instructions When Recovered from Low Back Pain You have recovered from the acute episode because of your ability
to master the exercises which relieved your pain. These exercises
must be repeated whenever situations arise which have previously
caused pain. You must perform the corrective movements before the
onset of pain. This is essential. If you carry out the following instructions, you can resume you
normal activities without the fear of recurrence. Sitting When sitting for prolonged periods the maintenance of the
   lordosis is essential. It does not matter if you maintain this
   with you own muscles or with the help of a supportive roll, placed
   in the small of your back. In addition to sitting correctly with a lumbar support, you
   should interrupt prolonged sitting at regular intervals. On
   extended car journeys you should get out of the car every hour or
   two, stand upright, bend backwards five or six times, and walk
   around for a few minutes. Bending Forwards When engaged in activities which require prolonged forward
   bending or stooping - for example, gardening, vacuuming, concreting
   - you must stand upright, restore the lordosis and bend backwards
   five or six times before pain commences. Frequent interruption of prolonged bending by reversing the
   curve in the low back should enable you to continue with most
   activities you enjoy, even with some you do not enjoy. Lifting If the load to be lifted weighs over thirty pounds, the strain
   must be taken with the low back in lordosis and you must lift by
   straightening your legs. If the object weighs under thirty pounds less care is
   required, unless you have been in a bent or sitting position for
   some time prior to lifting. In the latter case you must lift as if
   the weight exceeds thirty pounds. In addition to correct lifting technique, you must stand
   upright and bend backwards five or six times after lifting. Recurrence At the first signs of recurrence of low back pain you should
   immediately start the exercises which previously led to recovery,
   and follow the instructions given for when in acute pain. If this episode of low back pain seems to be different than
   on previous occasions, and if your pain persists despite following
   the instructions, you should contact a physical therapist. Remember If you lose the lordosis for any length of time, you are risking recurrence 
  of low back pain. Previous: Treatment Progression Next: Comment Published by the Virtual Health Care Team ® School of Health Professions University of Missouri-Columbia Questions? Comments? Contact Us Copyright © 2011 — Curators of the University of Missouri DMCA and other copyright information . An equal opportunity/ADA institution. All rights rese