<http://diabetoz.com/?p=23599>; rel=shortlink

Can a 16 year old female get diabetes type 2? › Diabetes Questions & Answers Diabetes Questions & Answers Diabetoz.com – Diabetes questions and answers database Skip to content Home Contact Us About Terms of Use Diabetes Symptoms Can a 16 year old female get diabetes type 2? I’m not too fat, but not thin, and I like eating. I’m wondering if I can get type 2 diabetes? Also, if I eat cinnamon frequently will it help avoiding it? Answer The youngest that I have diagnosed someone with type 2 diabetes is age 12 although I have read of one case where the person was aged 10.  There is no credible evidence that cinnamon has any effect on blood glucose one way or the other.  At this point the utility of cinnamon should be relegated to that of a myth.  There is not really any means by which you may avoid diabetes if you are destined to develop it.  There are ways that you may delay or mitigate the severity of diabetes if you should acquire it.  If I may be of further assistance please let me know.  I wish you the very best of health and happiness and in all things may God bless.  JR This was written by admin . Posted on Saturday, April 14, 2012, at 10:31 am . Filed under Diabetes . Tagged Diabetes , Female , Year . Bookmark the permalink . Follow comments here with the RSS feed . 2 Comments Ronald wrote: You can develop type 2 diabetes at any age. However, a healthy diet and regular exercise are ways to prevent or significantly delay the onset. At this time, there is no conclusive proof that cinnamon helps. Saturday, April 14, 2012 at 5:13 pm | Permalink Arbba Arbba wrote: Do you feel hungry all day? And thirst?Diuresis? Do you parent have diabetes ? Sometime eat too much is not diabetes, but you need let people know more thing that can know what happen to you. This is one diabetes website, you can ask them http://www.cure-diabetes-cure.com Saturday, April 14, 2012 at 5:20 pm | Permalink ‹ Should I go on insulin shots for type 2 diabetes? Can skinny people get type 2 diabetes? › Frequent urination every half hour , Vomiting after eating sugar  child , Pinky toes fall asleep , Why am i so full when i barely eat anything , 7 year old with distended stomach , Categories Causes of diabetes Diabetes Diabetes Prevention Diabetes Symptoms Diabetes Treatment Diet Insurance Myth Pregnancy Research Risks Video What is ? Tags About Best Blood Cause Control Cure Diabetes Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diabetics Diagnosed Diet Difference doctor Drink Eating Food Foods Gestational glucose Health Help Hypoglycemia Insulin Insurance Level Levels Long Medicine Normal Patient People Person Possible Pregnant Question risk Sugar Taking Test Time Treatment Type weight Which © 2012 ¶ Thanks, WordPress . ¶ veryplaint