
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Wed, 02 May 2012 21:03:06 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Set-Cookie: HotFlashReturningVisitor=1; expires=Thu, 02-May-2013 21:03:09 GMT
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 02 May 2012 21:03:09 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Stop Hot Flashes Today Hot Flash Freedom Logo Menopause Ingredients/Use Guarantee FAQ Testimonials Order Membership Stop Hot Flashes Today When do you want to stop hot flashes ?  When you are  burning up in the middle of a blizzard?  When you are shivering next to  the heater after your body suddenly sweats  hot flashes away? Do you want to stop hot flashes when you wake up  chilled at three in the morning, soaked in sweat? Hot flashes aren't just uncomfortable, they are  inconvenient.  Do you want to stop hot flashes before you have to fidget  through a meeting at work, trying to fan your self discretely and  unbutton just one more button on your blouse without attracting bad  attention? Do you want to stop them before you go to dinner with old  friends and break out into a sweat at the dinner table? The worst thing about hot flashes is that people that have  never experienced them just don't understand how bad they can be.   There is nothing worse than suffering through a hot flash only to have  someone act like all of the symptoms you are experiencing are in your  head. There is no denying that hot flashes are one of the most  uncomfortable and obvious symptoms of menopause.  Unfortunately 85% of  all women will experience them before, during and even after menopause.   They are the result of your body producing less estrogen and can range  from moderate to severe.  While there are a few ways to reduce the  discomfort of a hot flash, there really aren't very many medical cures. Scientists have worked hard to develop hormone  replacement therapy to make up for the loss of estrogen during  menopause.  Unfortunately there are some serious health risks associated  with these therapies. In 2002, the Women's Health Initiative reported  that Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) actually harms a woman more than  it helps her.  As a result of their studies and clinical trials, many  doctors stopped prescribing HRTs to their patients. Suddenly women sought a cure that would: Stop hot flashes Alleviate hot flashes fatigue Treat severe hot flashes Rid themselves of hot flushes, night sweats, and chills While some drugs looked promising, like HRTs they caused  too many side effects to be a great solution for menopausal hot flashes.   As a result, women began to seek out homeopathic solutions to control  hot flashes. Many women have found that by altering their diet, adding  exercise to their lifestyle, and learning to dress in natural fibers,  they can control the duration and severity of a hot flash. While this is  a step in the right direction, it isn't a perfect remedy for hot flash  symptoms of menopause. Added to lifestyle changes, a herbal  remedy for hot flashes is a great way to treat a hot flash. By  replacing estrogen with the natural ingredients found in supplements  such as Hot Flash Freedom, you can stop hot flashes before they begin. Hot Flashes | Menopause | Night Sweats | Perimenopause Because this product is not a drug and contains none, it has not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, cure or prevent any disease. Hot flashes | Affiliate Program | Blog | SiteMap | Privacy