Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Emetophobia treatment : Treatment for the Fear of Sick : Treatment for the Fear of Vomit, Toronto Hypnotherapy Clinic and Pure Hypnoanalysis™ Celebrating 25 years of successful therapy Welcome ~ Home ~ What is Hypnosis ~ Suggestion Therapy ~ Pure Hypnoanalysis™ ~ History of Pure Hypnoanalysis™ ~ About Daniel ~ Session Fees ~ Free Consultation ~ Contact Information ~ Useful Links Symptoms Treated ~ Phobias & Fears ~ Panic Attack Treatment ~ Anxiety Treatment ~ Emetophobia Treatment ~ Social Anxiety Treatment ~Depression Treatment ~ Sexual Problems Treatment ~ Shy Bladder/Paruresis Treatment ~ Stuttering/ Stammering Treatment ~Eating Disorder Treatment ~IBS Treatment ~Weight Loss Treatment ~ Complete List of Symptoms ~ Stop Smoking Easily - The Rob Kelly Method™ Daniel has trained with the U. K.'s leading hypnotherapist Rob Kelly to bring you one of the most successful smoking cessation methods in the world today. Rob has used his method on over 6000 clients with an incredible 95% success rate. Become a non- smoker today and change your life! Learn more here.. Emetophobia - Treatment at Toronto Hypnotherapy and Pure Hypnoanalysis Emetophobia : The intense fear of vomit, being sick, seeing others being sick, gagging, etc. Also known as : Emetephobia, phagophobia, vomitophobia, vomit phobia, sickness phobia, fear of vomiting, fear of gagging, fear of swallowing, fear of chocking, globus hystericus. From avoiding certain foods they eat, avoiding social situations, not traveling, or avoiding pregnancy (morning sickness), life for an Emetophobic can be extremely limited. Emetophobia is considered one of the worlds most common phobia. Pure Hypnoanalysis as a cure for Emetophobia Pure Hypnoanalysis is the best treatment in the world for sufferers of Emetophobia. Along with other symptoms in its class, Emetophobia does have a root cause. The cause is the result of bottled-up and unresolved emotions. These emotions however, are completely unconscious to them and their emetophobia is something inside of them, but outside their conscious control. Pure hypnoanalysis effectively gets to the root cause of the problem, bringing those bottled-up unconscious emotions up to the surface and once those emotions are released, the phobia is gone forever. Once it is gone, you can finally begin to enjoy a life of renewed confidence and freedom. Why traditional hypnotherapy is not recommended for emetophobia: Traditional hypnotherapy (also known as Suggestion Therapy ) falls short  because it deals only with the symptom and not the cause. In  traditional hypnotherapy your emetophobia would be  suggested away under hypnosis with suggestions like 'you feel calm and  at ease at the thought of being sick'. While you will probably leave the  hypnotherapist feeling less anxious at the thought of being sick, the  originating cause of that symptom, the bottled-up emotions have not  been addressed. Because the  unconscious emotions are still there, they will find an 'outlet'. So  you may not experience your emetophobia as often, but now you fear social situations  or you are more anxious in general. This is known as symptom  substitution and is a very real phenomenon. Worse yet, suggestions from a hypnotherapist don't always last forever, so in a few months time, your emetophobia may well return. For these reasons, traditional hypnotherapy (suggestion therapy) is not recommended for emetophobia Resolving your phobia for good This specialized treatment offered at Toronto Hypnotherapy and Pure Hypnoanalysis is not about controlling your emetophobia, it is about permanently liberating you from your phobia once and for all. Not only does your phobia disappear, but all other symptoms associated with those pent up emotions that were at the root of the problem disappear as well. The end result is a more relaxed, more in control, you. Click here for more about Pure Hypnoanalysis . Other therapies including CBT, psychotherapy, EFT, NLP only ever deal with the symptoms of your anxiety , leaving the root to manifest elsewhere. Why control your problem when you can rid yourself of it once and for all. For many who consult me, this may be the first time that they talk to someone about their phobia. Please rest assured that you will find me to be very easy going and non judgmental. This is a terrible affliction and you deserve a life of freedom and self-confidence. I offer a free, no obligation consultation to all of my potential clients. Go on, get in touch and free your mind. Home | What Is Hypnosis | Suggestion Therapy | Pure Hypnoanalysis | History of Pure Hypnoanalysis | About Daniel | Session Fees | Free Consultation | Contact Daniel | Useful Links | Phobias and Fears | Panic Attacks | Anxiety | Emetophobia | Social Anxiety | List of Symptoms Treated | Stop Smoking Easily | Hypnotherapy, Pure Hypnoanalysis and Hypnosis in GTA, Toronto, Mississauga, Hamilton, Barrie, Kitchener, 