
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 03:59:11 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:59:11 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
X-Pad: avoid browser bug

Children and Dental Health Care About.com Health Dental Care Dental Care Search Dentistry Conditions Prevention and Treatment Children's Dental Care 101 Filed In: Dental Health by Age Children and Dental Health Care Provides dental health information for children. Brushing (10) Find a Pediatric Dentist (6) Flossing (5) Orthodontics / Braces (11) Check Ups (6) Frequently Asked Questions (31) Fluoride (3) Research and Studies (5) Sealants (3) Special Needs Children (18) Nutrition (8) Products and Reviews (8) Habits (5) Dental Games & Activities (9) Children's Dental and Oral Healthcare Basics Understanding the basics of children's dental and oral healthcare needs is the first step in helping your child establish healthy oral habits at an early age. What is an Abscessed Tooth? An abscess of the tooth is an infection.  An abscess can include pus and swelling of the soft gum tissues surrounding the tooth How to Floss Your Teeth With Braces If you wear braces, this step by step photo guide will show you the proper way to floss your teeth. How to Brush your Teeth With Braces If you wear braces, this step by step photo guide will show you the proper way to brush your teeth. What is a Pediatric Dentist? Explains what a pediatric dentist is as well as what a pediatric dentist does. What Causes Decay? Explains what dental decay is and what causes it. What is a Cavity? Describes what a cavity is and how you can prevent cavities Braces - Before and After Photos Photos of patient's teeth before they had braces and after they had braces. Nutrition and Healthy Teeth Explains how proper nutrition and good oral health are linked as well as providing healthy tips for oral hygiene. Healthy  School Lunches for Healthy Teeth A healthy and balanced diet is essential to maintaining good oral health. These tips and information will help you learn how to prepare a lunch that best meets your child’s dental and nutritional needs. Healthy and Delicious Dental Craft Snack This is a great and healthy dental snack craft for kids of all ages to make and eat in honor of National Children's Dental Health Month, or all year long. Children's Dental Health  -  Breaking Bad habits Learn about and break bad dental habits in children at a young toddler age to encourage good oral health. Examples of bad habits include thumb sucking, going to bed with a bottle and not rinsing thoroughly while brushing. What are Sealants? Learn how sealants can protect your child against cavities. Photo of a Dental Sealant Photo of a Dental Sealant. What is the Difference Between a Silver and White Filling? Describes the differences between amalgam (silver) and composite (white) fillings. Are Silver Fillings Safe? Describes what silver fillings are made out of and whether or not they are safe. What is Fluoride? Learn what fluoride is and how it can help to prevent cavities. What is Decay? Describes what tooth decay is and how you can prevent tooth decay. How Often Should I Get a Dental Check Up? Learn how often to get a dental check up for adults, children and patients with special conditions. When Should I Take My Child to the Dentist for the Fisrt Time? Find out when you should take your child to the dentist for the first time. Photo Gallery of a Child's Dentist Appointment Many children are terrified of the dentist, but going to the dentist doesn't have to be scary if you know what to expect. These photos will show you and your children exactly what to expect when they visit the dentist for their 6 month check up. Tips for Choosing the Right Dental Products Tips for choosing a toothbrush, dental floss and toothpaste and mouthwash. How to Floss Your Teeth Flossing your teeth is easy. Learn how to floss your teeth with this easy step by step photo guide. How Often Should I Floss My Teeth? Learn how often and why it is important that you floss your teeth. How to use a Dental Flosser This step by step guide with pictures will show you the proper way to floss your teeth using a dental flosser. What is Nitrous Oxide? Describes what Nitrous Oxide is and how nitrous oxide can help you relax in the dental office. Review of the Reach Access Daily Flosser Dental product review of the Reach Access Daily Flosser and what makes it different from regular dental floss. How Often Should I Brush My Teeth? Learn how often you should brush your teeth to maintain good oral hygiene. How Often Should I Change My Toothbrush? Provides a detailed answer on how often and why it's important to change your toothbrush. Which Toothbrush is Really  Better - Manual or Electric? Describes which toothbrush is better - manual or electric and benefits of both toothbrushes. What is an Orthodontist? Describes what an orthodontist is and what education is required to be an orthodontist. What is Plaque? Maintain good dental health by learning what plaque is and how to prevent it. How to Find an Orthodontist If you need to choose a dental specialist for braces or other orthodontic treatment, follow these 10 tips for choosing the right orthodontist for your needs and for the needs of your family. Retainers - What is a Retainer? You have probably heard of retainers, but do you know what a retainer is and why wearing a retainer is so important? When do Children get their Permanent Teeth? This chart will show you which permanent teeth your children should be getting at specific ages. How to Take Care of Your Retainers Retainers are usually worn after braces. Find out the proper way to take care of your retainers. Thumbsucking - Breaking the Habit Information about why babies and children suck their thumb and useful advice on how to break this habit. Canker Sores - What is a Canker Sore? Describes what a canker sore is, where canker sores develop and how long canker sores usually last. "What Is a Papoose Board?" Terri Mauro, our Guide to Parenting Special Needs, explains what a papoose board is and how it can be used at dental visits. What is Gingivitis? Describes what gingivitis is and what you can do to prevent it. Dental plaque identification at home You can check your teeth or have your children check theirs for plaque at home using disclosing tablets. Clean Your Teeth and Freshen Your Breath On the Go! Clean your teeth and freshen your breath quickly and discreetly while on the go! How to Brush Children’s Teeth Brushing children’s teeth at least twice a day is very important because it establishes good oral hygiene at an early age as well as helping to prevent cavities. This easy step by step method will have your child on the right track to a good oral health regime in no time. Visits to the Dentist Could Prevent Toothaches Explains why you should see the dentist before you have a toothache. Broken or knocked out tooth What do you do if you or your child gets a broken or knocked out tooth? Follow the tips in this guideline for safely transporting a tooth for reimplantation. Tips for Managing Dental Emergencies These tips will tell you what you should do if you ever have a dental emergency. Mouthguards and Sports - Are Mouthguards Really Necessary? Mouthguards can offer superior protection against dental related injuries. Find out how to choose and take care of a dental mouthguard. Video - Building Better Toothbrushing Habits for your Kids This is a great video about toothbrushing habits for children. Complete Information About Food Pyramids Shereen Jegtvig, our Guide to Nutrition, provides complete information about food pyramids. Raisins - Health Food or Junk Food? Are raisins good for your teeth or can they contribute to cavities? I've always thought of raisins as being healthy, but are they? Vincent Iannelli, M.D., offers some interesting insight about this. Thumbsucking and Permanent Teeth The American Dental Association provides useful information about thumbsucking and how this habit can affect your child's teeth. Children's Dentistry FAQ's Dr. Keith Coe, a pediatric dentist in Texas, provides  very informative answers to frequently asked questions about children's dentistry. Fluoridated Water -  Questions and Answers Provides answers to frequently asked questions about fluoridated water. Dental Products for Home Use The American Dental Association offers some excellent tips on modifying a manual toothbrush handle for easier use. Study: Cavities Increasing in Baby Teeth The largest government study in twenty five years, regarding dental health in America, has reported that tooth decay is on the rise in young children's baby teeth. Tot Toothbrushes Promote Good Brushing Habits Find out how toddler toothbrushes can promote good oral hygiene. Frequently Asked Questions About Dental Sealants The CDC provides answers to frequently asked questions about dental sealants. Children's Nutrition and Tooth Decay Find out what types of food can cause tooth decay and it's not just candy! Frequently Asked Questions About Fluoride The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry provides answers to frequently asked questions about fluoride as well as the safety of fluoride. Answers to Frequently Asked Orthodontic Questions Dr. Thomas Field, a highly successful orthodontist in Gainesville, Georgia provides answers to some frequently asked questions about braces, retainers and other orthodontic treatments. Root Beer May Be "Safest" Soft Drink for Teeth Find out what the Academy of General Dentistry has to say about root beer and soft drinks affecting teeth. Soft Drinks Cause Extensive Damage to Teeth Just because a soft drink is diet doesn't mean that it isn't bad for your teeth.  Dr. Jim Arnold describes two ways that regular and diet soft drinks can cause extensive damage to your teeth as well as what you can do to limit the damage without giving up soft drinks completely. American Association of Orthodontics - Find an Orthodontist The American Association of orthodontics offers an easy way to find a qualified orthodontist in your area. Find a Pediatric Dentist in The United States The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry provides a service to find a pediatric dentist in the United States. Find a Pediatric Dentist by Country The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry provides easy access to find a pediatric dentist in just about any country. Find a Pediatric Dentist in the United Kingdom The British Dental Association provides information to find a pediatric dentist in the United Kingdom. Find a Pediatric Dentist in Canada The Canadian Academy of Pediatric Dentistry provides information to find a pediatric dentist in Canada. Congenitally Missing Teeth - Hypondontia and Oligodontia Two congential conditions, Hypodontia and Oligodontia, describe teeth that never developed in a child. Also described at "primary failure of eruption." Learn more about these conditions, causes, and treatment. New Guidelines Regarding Antibiotics Before Dentist Appointments The American Heart Association has recently set new guidelines for taking antibiotics before dentist appointments as a precaution against Bacterial Endocarditis. Whack a Molar Whack a Molar is a great online game for all ages provided by Dentistry.com. Apply now to guide this site Discuss in our forum Explore Dental Care Must Reads When Your Wisdom Teeth Need Pulling All You Need to Know About Root Canals Parent's Guide to Baby Teeth Tooth Whitening Basics How to Brush Your Teeth Properly Most Popular Canker Sore Treatment Information on Root Canals Fun Dental Activities Brushing Your Teeth The Top Root Canal Myths By Category Basic Dental Care Children's Dentistry Dental Emergencies Dental Procedures Missing and False Teeth Cosmetic Dentistry Orthodontics Choosing a Dentist Dental Insurance Dental Careers Dental Glossary Resources and Reviews Dental Care About.com Health Dental Care Dental Health by Age Children Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.