
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:55:10 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 03:55:10 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dealing with Premature Menopause About.com Health Leukemia & Lymphoma Leukemia & Lymphoma Search Leukemia & Lymphoma Treatment Symptoms & Diagnosis Living with a Blood Cancer Share Free Leukemia & Lymphoma Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Dealing With the Symptoms of Premature Menopause By Karen Raymaakers , About.com Guide Updated August 12, 2011 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the Medical Review Board See More About: side effects of treatment living with leukemia or lymphoma sex-life with lymphoma Menopause is when your menstrual periods stop for more than 12 months in a row. All women will experience menopause at some point. For most women, menopause happens naturally between the ages of 40 and 60. For women who have received chemotherapy or radiation therapy for cancer, they may experience premature or spontaneous menopause. This is also sometimes called premature ovarian failure. Reading the Signs When a woman’s ovaries stop functioning, they stop making hormones. Along with the absence of periods, menopause can cause a number of side effects: Difficulty sleeping Feeling anxious Hot flashes Night sweats Difficulty concentrating or remembering things Vaginal dryness or itching During and after menopause, women are also at increased risk of developing thin, weak bones (osteoporosis), and heart disease. Is This Normal? In ladies who experience natural menopause, these symptoms come on gradually and may come and go for a period of years. In women who experience premature or spontaneous menopause as a result of cancer treatment, these symptoms come on suddenly and may be more intense than usual. These symptoms may also be more severe in younger women. Who Is at Risk? Women who receive radiation therapy to their pelvic area may experience temporary or permanent menopause. In particular, patients who receive total body irradiation (TBI) in preparation for their bone marrow or stem cell transplant are at very high risk of premature ovarian failure. Certain chemotherapy drugs may also cause damage to the ovaries, leading to premature menopause. The most likely culprits are a group of chemotherapy drugs called alkylating agents. Alkylating agents that are commonly used in the treatment of blood cancers include: cyclophosphamide , ifosphamide and melphalan . Symptoms of premature menopause may begin very soon or may take a few months following radiation or chemotherapy. What Can I Do About It? While it may seem like an eternity, eventually symptoms of premature menopause will go away on their own. Even if you choose not to receive any treatment at all, the side effects will taper off over time and you will begin to feel more like your normal self. In some cases, however, your quality of life can be greatly impacted by these symptoms and it may not be acceptable to endure them for many months or years. In years past, any woman who was experiencing side effects of menopause was recommended to start on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) of estrogen with or without progestin. More recently, we have learned that there may be serious health consequences associated with HRT. As a result, these days it is only recommended for ladies with night sweats/ hot flashes, vaginal dryness and osteoporosis. The most important thing about HRT is that it should be given in the lowest dose possible that still provides adequate relief from your symptoms, and that it be given over the shortest period of time needed. Whether or not you should take HRT is a decision for you and your healthcare provider to make together. There are a number of herbal or complementary therapies that are sometimes used to provide treatment for premature menopause. These include soy-based products, vitamin E, black cohosh and evening primrose. Unfortunately, many herbal products do not undergo Food and Drug Administration standardization the way that other medications do, and there has been little scientific evidence of the benefits and risks of these therapies. Make sure to speak to your doctor before trying any herbal remedy for menopause symptoms. There is some evidence that low-dose antidepressants such as Prozac , Paxil , and Effexor may be beneficial in the treatment of hot flashes and night sweats. Typically, these medications are given in doses smaller than those used to treat depression and, as a result, can have fewer side effects.  Interestingly, anti-seizure medications such as Neurontin have also been used to treat these symptoms. Ask your doctor if these medications are good options for you. If medications are not right for you, there is still hope! Much of the current literature about menopause suggests that gentle exercise and relaxation techniques such as guided imagery and yoga may also be effective for helping you to control your symptoms. Using a water-based vaginal lubricant, especially before sexual activity, can help relieve some of the dryness and irritation you may be experiencing. Wearing cotton clothing and sleepwear can help wick away perspiration and moisture from your skin if you suffer from hot flashes. You may also choose to wear light layers so that if you feel a flash coming on, you can remove some to make yourself more comfortable. Try avoiding things like spicy foods, smoking, alcohol and hot drinks if you find these make your symptoms worse. The Bottom Line There are a number of therapies used in the treatment of blood cancers that can contribute to an early onset of menopause. In some cases, this premature "spontaneous" or "artificial" menopause can abruptly cause severe symptoms that can have a big impact on your quality of life. There are treatments that can help you to manage these symptoms. It is important that you speak to your healthcare provider to discuss your options and weigh the risks and potential benefits of each therapy. If your doctor is unable to provide you with assistance, ask for a referral to another physician who has a specialty in this area. Sources Eyre, H., Lange, D., Morris, L. (2002) Informed Decisions 2nd ed. American Cancer Society. Atlanta,GA. Kelvin, J., Tyson, L.(2005) 100 Questions and Answers About Cancer Symptoms and Cancer Treatment Side Effects. Jones and Bartlett: Sudbury, MA Suggested Reading Early Menopause - Premature Ovarian Failure Menopause Treatments - HRT and More Medical Treatment of Menopause More About Menopause Managing Menopausal Symptoms Hot Flashes Natural Approach to Menopause Elsewhere on the Web National Institutes of Health- Menopausal Hormone Therapy Information Medline Plus- Hormone Replacement Therapy Food and Drug Administration- Menopause Medications to Help You Related Articles Surgical and Forced Menopause - What is Surgical and Forced Menopause Menopause - Thyroid Disease Menopause, HRT and Alternative Therapy Menopause, HRT and Alternative Therapy Common Wisdom: What's It Worth? - Menopause Karen Raymaakers Leukemia & Lymphoma Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Explore Leukemia & Lymphoma Must Reads What Is Leukemia? The Basics What Is Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? The Basics What Is Hodgkin Lymphoma? The Basics What Is Lymphoma? The Basics Diagnosing Leukemia Most Popular Warning Signs and Symptoms Enlarged Lymph Nodes Lymphoma Stages A Slow Growing Cancer What is Lymphoma? See More About: side effects of treatment living with leukemia or lymphoma sex-life with lymphoma By Category Treatment What is Lymphoma? Hodgkin Lymphoma Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Symptoms and Side Effects What is Leukemia? What is Myeloma? Testing and Diagnosis Types of Leukemia Life with a Blood Cancer Clinical Trials Glossary Childhood Cancers Risk Factors Leukemia & Lymphoma About.com Health Leukemia & Lymphoma Life with a Blood Cancer Dealing with Premature Menopause Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod