Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=100
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
Vary: Accept-Encoding

Sealants can stop cavities before they begin - Delta Dental Skip to page content Individuals & Enrollees Dentists Employers Administrators Brokers About Us Legal Notices Contact Us Delta Dental en Español Your Location Oral Health Home Articles Sealants can stop cavities before they begin Caring for your children's teeth Did you know that the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry recommends bringing your child to the dentist before his/her first birthday? Read more about dental care for children. Children are prone to cavities because of the natural shape of their growing teeth. When first molars come in around age 6, deep crevices called pits and fissures form on the chewing surfaces of these back teeth. Pits and fissures are so narrow that the bristles of a toothbrush cannot reach into them, making them difficult to clean; however, these crevices provide plenty of room for bacteria to grow. Children's eating habits also lead to cavities because their diets generally include frequent snacking. Children are usually brushing their own teeth by age 6, and they may not be doing an adequate job. They rarely brush as often as necessary and their technique may need an occasional check by an adult. What can you do? Sealants may be the answer Dental sealants can protect your children from cavities. Sealants are applied to the chewing surfaces of molars to act as a barrier between the tooth and harmful bacteria. They are most effective when applied to decay-susceptible biting surfaces as soon as the teeth come in. Here's how sealants work: The sealing material is applied to the tooth surface using an "etching" fluid. The sealant partially penetrates the tooth enamel, ensuring that it is firmly attached to the tooth. Once applied, the sealant fills in the tooth's grooves, hardens and creates a thin plastic barrier that keeps cavity-causing bacteria out of the pits and fissures. Application is fast and painless Your child will be happy to know that with sealants, there is no drilling and no discomfort. Sealants can be applied by either your dentist or a registered dental hygienist, and application takes less time than having a tooth filled. After many years in use, sealants have proven to be safe, durable and effective. Check your Delta Dental Evidence of Coverage booklet to see if your plan includes coverage for sealants. Usually, sealants are covered when applied to first molars through age 8 and second molars through age 15. However, coverage for some groups may be different. Ask your dentist about how your child can benefit from the application of sealants. Other cavity prevention techniques Regular at-home preventive care — brushing and flossing after every meal — can also help keep your child's dental problems to a minimum. From age 2, children should begin to brush their own teeth with a parent's help. Use a small, soft brush with a pea-sized amount of toothpaste. Children need a balanced diet to help their bodies — including teeth — develop. Calcium is extremely important for strong teeth and to the structure of the face and jaws. Make sure your child gets an adequate supply of calcium by eating calcium rich foods such as milk, yogurt and cheese, which have been shown to inhibit the effects of harmful acids. Discourage snacks that are high in sugar or starch, and sticky foods that may remain in contact with teeth longer. Related articles: Caring for your children’s teeth Last updated: January 2011 The oral health information on this web site is intended for educational purposes only. You should always consult a licensed dentist or other qualified health care professional for any questions concerning your oral health. Oral Health Topics Kids & Teens Seniors Emergency Care Conditions Mouth-Body Connection Preventive Care Dental Treatments Resources Glossary of Dental Terms Glossary of Insurance Terms Oral Health Booklet A collection of our top oral health tips in a printer-friendly file. Stay Informed Shortcuts Delta Dental Insurance for Individuals Dentists Employers Administrators Brokers Corporate Information About Us Careers Privacy and Security Legal Notices Contact Us © Delta Dental. This site is the home of Delta Dental of California, Delta Dental Insurance Company, Delta Dental of Pennsylvania, Delta Dental of the District of Columbia, Delta Dental of Delaware, Delta Dental of West Virginia, their affiliated companies, and Delta Dental of New York.  For other Delta Dental Plans Association member c