
Health A-Z Home Weight Loss Plan Products Assessments Kids Health Health News Boot Camp Shopping BULLETINS HEALTH A-Z • Overview • Issues HOT TOPICS NEWSLETTERS Cranberry January 2001 Cranberry is known 
	as a mouth-puckering berry that is made into a jelly or sauce served at 
	traditional holiday meals in the U.S. But the Cranberry is useful as more 
	than just a jelly or a sauce. In a recent major study, Cranberry was shown 
	to help reduce the amount of ionized calcium in the urine by over 50 percent 
	in patients with recurrent kidney stones. Certain dietary changes were also 
	an integral part of the study. Since high urinary calcium levels greatly 
	increase the risk of developing kidney stones, it appears that cranberries, 
	along with certain dietary changes such as reducing sugar and animal protein 
	in the diet; avoiding soft drinks; increasing magnesium and vitamins C, E, 
	and B-complex; and drinking more water daily; may offer significant 
	benefits. In another study, patients with urinary tract infections were given 
	Cranberry juice to drink for 21 days, and 70 percent of the patients showed 
	improvement. Cranberry contains phytochemicals known as anthocyanins, 
	catechins, and triterpenoids which have a high acid content. Scientists 
	aren't sure which constituents produce the beneficial effects from Cranberry 
	consumption, but they do know that it does inhibit bacteria from adhering to 
	the tissue lining of the urinary tract. Blueberries or blueberry juice also 
	appear to contain ingredients similar to cranberries that inhibit bacterial 
	adhesion in the urinary tract. Typical usage amounts of Cranberry products are: Juice (100 percent 
	Cranberry or Cranberry plus Grape juice with no added sugar) 32 fluid ounces 
	up to three times a day depending on prevention or elimination of a problem. 
	Dried Cranberry in 100 mg capsule form can be taken in amounts up to 6 per 
	day, which equates to approximately 3 fluid ounces of juice or two 300 mg 
	capsules per day. © 2011 Better Life Unlimited™ A division of Bett