
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2012 16:06:03 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://albanacupuncture.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Balance | New York Acupuncture and Herbs For more information call 917.887.4946 Acupuncture Chinese Herbs Acupressure Home About Us Bio Conditions FAQ Articles Directions and Hours Insurance Photos Testimonials Chronic Pain Migraines and Headaches Chronic Prostatitis, Interstitial Cystitis, and Overactive Bladder Stress and Anxiety Women’s Health Asthma, Eczema, Allergies, and Acne Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Chinese Herbs Tui Na Blog Contact Request an appointment Posts Tagged ‘balance’ The Causes of Migraine Headaches Apr 16, 2012 This morning on NPR there was a very informative piece about the causes of migraines and why women suffer more from migraines than men . The story explains the that one reason migraines occur is because of bursts of electrical activity in specific areas of the brain.   Often they begin in  the visual center, which is why people will get auras from migraines.  Then it will travel through different regions explaining why there can be so many different symptoms related to the migraine headache. Originally women were thought to get more migraine was because women cannot handle stress.  However, now researchers are seeing links between hormone imbalances and migraines. Acupuncture for Migraine headaches Migraine headaches are very commonly treated with acupuncture.  In our clinic, we use acupuncture and acupressure as an effective remedy to reduce the symptoms and frequency of migraines. Here are some testimonials from our patients who have found relief from migraine headaches with acupuncture. Read more on acupuncture for migraine headaches: Acupuncture Treatment for Headaches and Migraines How Acupuncture works to Treat Migraine Headaches Tags: acupuncture treatment , acupuncture works , balance , headaches , remedy , Stress Posted in Improve Your Health | No Comments » Acupuncture for Arthritis Mar 19, 2012 Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis.  Acupuncture has been used for thousands of years to reduce joint pain, swelling, and stiffness which comes from arthritis. Acupuncture and Arthritis Symptoms Acupuncture for arthritis of the back Pain and stiffness are the most common symptoms from arthritis.  Arthritis can effect both small joints, such as the hands and feet, as well as larger joints, such as the hips, back, knees, and shoulder.   Arthritis may cause your joints to crack, swell, and have limited movement. Acupuncture works to relieve pain and stiffness of arthritis by stimulating the release of natural pain relievers, such as opioids, as well as regulating pain relieving opioid receptors.  Acupuncture also changes the way the nervous system feels pain, helping to relieve pain for long periods of time.   In addition, acupuncture has an anti-inflammatory effect, reducing the circulating inflammatory hormones in the blood (1).  Many clinical trials of acupuncture have shown acupuncture to be effective for reducing pain in patients with arthritis (2). Acupuncture view of Arthritis Most people with arthritis experience greater pain in the cold and damp weather.  In acupuncture and Chinese medicine, the reason this occurs is because the cold and damp impede circulation in the joints.  The lack of circulation leads pain, stiffness, and swelling.   The goal of the acupuncture is to increase circulation and warm the joints to relieve pain. What is the Acupuncture treatment for arthritis like? During the first visit, we will complete a medical history and physical examination, which focuses on an examination of effected and painful joints.  Acupuncture diagnosis and treatment focuses on identifying the specific root imbalance causing the condition and tailoring the treatment for you. In addition to the acupuncture, treatment often includes manual therapies such as tui na (acupressure), cupping, and heat. Electroacupuncture is particularly effective for pain relief in arthritis. Acupuncture is most effective through a treatment course.  The treatment should decrease pain and inflammation and improve mobility in the joints.  Many people find rapid relief, within a few weeks of beginning the treatment. For others, it may take longer to have an effect. Generally, patients come in for acupuncture once to twice a week depending on the severity, and gradually get acupuncture less frequently.  The treatment course generally last 2-4 months.   Often, patients will experience be long lasting pain relief. References: 1. Napadow V, Ahn A, Longhurst J, et.al. The Status and Future of Acupuncture Mechanism Research. J Altern Complement Med. 2008 September; 14(7): 861–869. 2.  Berman BM, Lao L, Langenberg P, Lee WL, Gilpin AMK, Hochberg MC. Effectiveness of Acupuncture as Adjunctive Therapy in Osteoarthritis of the Knee: A Randomized, Controlled Trial . Annals of Internal Medicine. 2004; 141(12):901910. Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture treatment , acupuncture works , arthritis , balance , chinese medicine , cupping , electroacupuncture , hands and feet , heat , inflammation , joints , knees , nervous , pain Posted in Acupuncture , Chronic Pain Relief | No Comments » Do You Always Use the Same Acupuncture Points? Feb 21, 2012 This is one of the most common questions I get in my NYC acupuncture clinic.  The acupuncture point prescriptions will differ between patients, but also will change over time within one treatment plan. Acupuncture is highly focused on treating the correct imbalance at the correct time.  As the acupuncture treatment progresses, the imbalances will change and the acupuncture point prescription will change. For example, in acupuncture for overactive bladder the initial acupuncture treatment will focus on relaxing the bladder and calming the mind.  After the intense discomfort and symptoms are corrected, the acupuncture will focus on boosting the energy, or qi, in the body to prevent the symptoms  from returning. The first part of the acupuncture treatment calms the bladder by getting heat out of the body.   This may use acupuncture points such as KD2 and KD 3, Ren 2, GB 34, and ST 40.  The will help the bladder and calm the feeling of urgent and frequent urination.  The second part of the acupuncture treatment will be focused on boosting up the qi which will relieve the residual symptoms and provide longer term relief.   Acupuncture points such as KD 3, SP 9, Ren 4 and 6 are very helpful. Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture points , acupuncture treatment , balance , overactive bladder Posted in Acupuncture | 2 Comments » What is Chinese Medicine? Feb 13, 2012 Traditional Chinese Medicine is a term that refers to medicine practices developed in China and other parts of Asia.  Traditional Chinese Medicine generally covers many types of modalities including acupuncture and moxibustion, Chinese Herbal remedies, Tui Na or Chinese Medical Massage, as well as other manual therapies including gua sha (spoon massage or coining) and cupping. In China, the term Chinese medicine (in Chinese it is called Zhong Yi 中医) often refers to the practice of Chinese herbal medicine.  Although it can also refer to the entire practice of Chinese medicine. While acupuncture refers to acupuncture and moxibustion. Some of these therapies are performed only by experienced physicians, such as prescribing complex herbal formulas or doing acupuncture. But others are considered more home remedies.  This may include  folk herbal remedies for common colds or manual therapies such as gua sha which can be used for nausea, car sickness, the common cold, and other common illnesses. Common ideas in Chinese Medicine While the therapies are diverse, done both by physician and family members, they all rest on the holistic view of the body and health that developed over 2000 years ago.   A primary idea is that health is a state of balance in the body and between the body and the environment.  The body has qi, energy, which flows through channel and meridians.  Also, that environmental factors such as cold, heat, and dampness can cause illness.  And these environmental factors represent certain illness within the body. For example, if you have a cold, a physician may write an herbal prescription to release the heat to help you get rid of the cold.  But the home remedy of gua sha spoon massage on the neck and upper back can also release the heat. Chinese Medicine: An Evolution of Ideas Many of the dominant concepts in Chinese medicine were discussed in the early books of the Yellow Emperor’s Inner Classics as well as the Treatise on Cold Diseases .  Although they referenced older works, they are no longer in existence.    Over the years, physicians and scholars have debated these ideas evolving into the contemporary tradition of modern Chinese Medicine. Yet, it is important to understand that Chinese medicine is an evolving tradition.   These are not static concepts, but ideas that scholars, physicians and even individual family lineages have expanded on and explored.  Chinese medicine has a strong tradition of writing, discussion, and debate. There is a great diversity of ideas.  Through experience and training a Chinese Medicine practitioner will develop their own style. For example, certain physicians believed that the best way to use Chinese medicine for psoriasis was to clear heat and toxins from the body.   However, other physicians believed that psoriasis developed from internal cold and the body must be warmed. These debates continue today. In fact, some of the significant therapeutic strategies of modern Chinese medicine physicians were not developed until recently.  As I mentioned in my last post, the development of electro-acupuncture for pain was only developed within the last century, a relatively short time for the history of Chinese medicine. Tags: Acupuncture , balance , chinese medicine , colds , common cold , herbal formula , herbal remedies , herbs , home remedies , Nausea , psoriasis , qi , remedy , Traditional Chinese Medicine Posted in Acupuncture , History of Chinese Medicine | No Comments » Neck and Shoulder Pain Jan 23, 2012 Chronic neck and shoulder pain is a very common problem which can occur from overuse, injury, stress, or poor posture.  Neck and shoulder pain is often treated with acupuncture (1, 2).  Acupuncture treatment often leads to long term pain relief. For most people, neck and shoulder pain develops over time. At one point, your body was healthy and pain free. However, an injury or chronic stress leads to the development of chronic pain. Acupuncture and Chinese medicine work by bringing the body back to balance. By correcting the imbalance, acupuncture helps the body to heal. Acupuncture Imbalances Causing Neck and Shoulder Pain Acupuncture is based on a theory that the pain is caused by an imbalance. When it comes to muscle pain, the acupuncturist must determine if it is a condition of stagnation or deficiency. The treatment will be tailored to that diagnosis. Stagnation occurs when there is a lack of circulation in the muscles. This impedes the circulation in the acupuncture channels and muscles, which leads to pain. A deficient condition is when there is not enough energy. Then the muscles do not have enough substance to support them, as a result they tense up. There is an old acupuncture saying which states, “When there is movement, there is no pain. When there is no movement, there is pain.” When there is no circulation and the muscles are tight, pain occurs. This is often caused by stagnation. Stagnation may develop from an injury, wear and tear, or chronic stress. Chronic stress is one of the most common causes of stagnation, which is why it is easy to develop pain and injuries during periods of high stress. The other common issue with neck and shoulder pain is qi weakness, or too little energy. In this case, the acupuncture must focus on building up the energy to promote healing. For an excess condition, your acupuncturist may use a stronger technique, and for a deficient condition, your acupuncturist may use a more gentle technique. If the deficiency is very extreme, then the treatment may be take a longer time. Acupuncture Treatment for Neck and Shoulder Pain A successful acupuncture treatment must match the correct identification of an imbalance.  Often, the acupuncture treatment will involve acupuncture, electroacupuncture, and tui na. For the imbalance of stagnation acupuncture points on the neck and shoulders such as Gallbladder 20, Gallbladder 21, Small Intestine 11, and Du 14 may be selected. When the root cause of the shoulder pain is an underlying weakness, then acupuncture points to boost up the qi should be used. These point could be Spleen 6, Kidney 3, and Liver 3. Patients often feel some relief after a few visits. A full treatment course may range from 4-10 visits depending on the severity and complexity of the pain. Physiological, acupuncture works to reduce pain and inflammation through regulating neural pain pathways, stimulating the release of natural pain relieves in the body, such as opioids, as well as regulating pain relieving opioid receptors.  Many studies have also shown acupuncture to have a anti-inflammatory effect, reducing the circulating inflammatory hormones in the blood (3). Tui Na for Neck and Shoulder Pain Tui Na, or Chinese medical massage, is also very helpful for treatment of shoulder pain. One of the most powerful and unique techniques in Tui Na is called the rolling technique, called gun fa in Chinese. This technique uses the back of the hand to roll over the muscles.  Rolling technique is both soft and strong, allowing it to get deep into the muscle and help with relaxation. If you push too hard on a muscle, the muscle will rebel. Instead of relaxing, it can become tighter. The rolling technique, because it is smooth, allows the use of strength while avoiding resistance within the muscle. Treating the Whole Person Acupuncture will address the whole person, not just the neck and shoulders. The body is interconnected, tension from one area can create problems in other muscles. Often, trying to target and treat only the location of the pain does not relieve the tension in the surrounding muscle groups. This is particularly true when treating pain in the neck and shoulders. All of the muscles in the region need to be addressed. Acupuncture helps to relax the body and the mind.  Stress and pressure have a profound effect on neck pain development.   The stress causes the muscles to become tense.  The muscle tension then causes stress, creating a cycle. The acupuncture can help to break this cycle. References: 1. Sherman KJ, Cherkin DC, Eisenberg DM, et.al.  The Practice of Acupuncture: Who Are the Providers and What Do They Do? Ann Fam Med 2005;3:151-158. 2.National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. Acupuncture for Pain . Accessed on 1/23/2012. 3. Napadow V, Ahn A, Longhurst J, et.al . The Status and Future of Acupuncture Mechanism Research. J Altern Complement Med . 2008 September; 14(7): 861–869. written by: Joseph Alban Last Edited: 1/23/2012 Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture treatment , acupuncture works , acupuncturist , balance , chinese medicine , chronic pain , muscles , neck and shoulder pain , neck pain , pain in the neck , pathways , relaxation , shoulders , stagnation , Stress Posted in  | No Comments » The Acupuncture Map Jan 23, 2012 Acupuncture has a powerful ability to address pain all over the body. Often, the acupuncture treatment will focus on areas that are far away from the pain.  For example, in Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome , the treatment will use many acupuncture points on the arms and legs.  This is because the acupuncture channels can be used to reduce pain all along that particular channel. Acupuncture Channels I like to think of the acupuncture channels as an map of the body to address pain in specific areas. The acupuncturist will try to locate the area of the pain and determine which acupuncture channel is effected. The most powerful acupuncture treatment will address the acupuncture points for that specific channel. It is particularly important to focus on the proper acupuncture channel when treating complex chronic pain conditions, such as chronic pelvic pain syndrome. In chronic pelvic pain syndrome, the pain can be located throughout the pelvis, pelvic floor, genitals, hips, lower back, or buttock. Careful examination and precise location of the acupuncture points helps to create a more accurate and effective treatment. The acupuncture points I select focus on the most effected acupuncture channels. For example, if there is pain and sensitivity on the lower abdomen or near the lower ribs, the GB channel may most effected. In this case, I would uses the acupuncture point GB 34 near the knee. If there is pain in the pelvic floor, the LIV channel is often imbalanced. I may choose points such as LIV 3 or LIV 5 on the lower leg or foot. Acupuncture points close to the pain In addition to acupuncture points far from the pain, some powerful acupuncture points will be located close to the pain. For chronic pelvic pain syndrome, many sensitive points are located on the lower abdomen, hips, and pelvis. These acupuncture points may also be used if they are tender or sensitive. Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture points , acupuncture treatment , balance , chronic pain , chronic pelvic pain , Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome , health , pelvis Posted in Acupuncture , Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome | No Comments » Acupuncture and Moxibustion Jan 9, 2012 The Meaning of Zhen Jiu ( 针灸) Acupuncture is not just acupuncture.  In fact, the word for acupuncture in Chinese, Zhen Jiu, actually  translates to “acupuncture and moxibustion”  which shows how central moxibustion is within acupuncture. Moxibustion is the warming of acupuncture points or needles.  Most often, this is done through burning an herb called mugwort.  It can also be done with heat lamps as well as herbal lotions. In my office, we use smokeless moxibustion because it is treated and does not create much smoke. How does Moxibustion work? Acupuncture and Moxa for Back Pain Just like with acupuncture, moxibustion focuses on correcting the underlying imbalance in the body. Because it is warming, generally moxibustion is used when there is cold in the body.  Moxibustion can help to warm the body and add qi as well.  The warmth also helps to increase circulation. I use moxibustion often. I find it is very helpful for some people with Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome , Interstitial Cystitis , chronic low back pain , in addition to other pain or digestive issues. Boosting the Qi There is a tradition that one can use moxibustion on the acupuncture point Stomach 36 for 100 consecutive days in order to boost the body’s qi.  I think this therapy is particularly effective for those with poor digestion or asthma due to low energy. image: superfantastic Tags: Acupressure , Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture points , asthma , back pain , balance , chronic pelvic pain , Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome , cramps , digestion , heat , interstitial cystitis , moxabustion , qi Posted in Acupuncture | No Comments » Chronic Low Back Pain Jan 9, 2012 Chronic low back pain is one of the most common reasons to go to the doctor as well as miss work. It decreases quality of life and causes people to avoid activities they would normally enjoy. Acupuncture is a very well accepted and safe method to treat chronic low back pain (1,2). Acupuncture for Chronic Low Back Pain Acupuncture is over 2000 years old, and has a long track record of treating back pain. Acupuncture needles are solid, there is no medication in or on the needle. It is not anesthesia that helps to reduce the pain. Acupuncture works by stimulating the body to heal itself. It does this through relaxing the back muscles, stimulating the release of anti-inflammatory chemicals, and regulating how the brain feels pain (3). Chinese medicine and acupuncture theorize that there are underlying imbalances in the body which leads to chronic low back pain. A successful acupuncture treatment must be tailored specifically to what is going on with your back.  Acupuncture needles are placed in specific points correct imbalances that can cause back pain. Lower back pain treatment will most often be focused on the back. Needles will also be placed in other areas to stimulate movement of the energy and increase production of the energy. What Causes Back Pain? According to acupuncture and Chinese medicine, the two major imbalances which cause back pain are deficiency and stagnation. An old acupuncture saying goes, “When there is no movement, there is pain. When there is movement, there is no pain.” Stagnation is when there is not enough flow of energy through the back. Trauma, stress, or injury can cause the qi flow, or energy flow, in the body to slow down and gets stuck. When there is no flow, pain develops. Car accident, sports injury, and stress can lead to development of stagnation. Deficiency is when there is not enough energy in body. The body needs qi, or energy, in order to function healthy. Gradual, slow, chronic onset of back pain can be a sign that there is not enough energy, or a qi deficiency. Sometimes there is a combination of deficiency and stagnation. This can happen after a long period of time after an accident and not getting better. Acupuncture therapy is individualized for each patient During the initial acupuncture visit, there is generally an examination and assessment of the root cause of the back pain.   The acupuncture treatment is  individualized for your specific issues. An effective acupuncture treatment may involve acupuncture and electro -acupuncture stimulation.  Other therapies including acupressure or cupping are very helpful for chronic low back pain. For some people ear magnets or auricular acupuncture is very powerful for pain relief. The proper combination of these treatments leads to profound and long term pain relief. Read More about Acupuncture for Chronic Lower Back Pain: Car Accident Back Pain An Athlete’s Back Pain Stress Induced Lower Back Pain References: 1. Sherman KJ, Cherkin DC, Eisenberg DM, et.al.  The Practice of Acupuncture: Who Are the Providers and What Do They Do? Ann Fam Med 2005;3:151-158. 2. Berman BM, Langevin HM, Witt CM, Dubner R. Acupuncture for Chronic Low Back Pain. N Engl J Med 2010; 363:454-461. 3. Napadow V, Ahn A, Longhurst J, et.al . The Status and Future of Acupuncture Mechanism Research. J Altern Complement Med . 2008 September; 14(7): 861–869. written by: Joseph Alban Last Edited: 1/09/2012 Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture points , acupuncture treatment , acupuncture works , back muscles , back pain treatment , balance , brain , car accident , chinese medicine , chronic back pain , cupping , health , nervous , stagnation , Stress Posted in  | No Comments » What is Eczema? Dec 6, 2011 Eczema is the most common inflammatory skin condition.   Although commonly believed to be a disease, eczema is better understood as a group of skin conditions that have similar types of inflammation.  Eczema rashes are often scaly, itchy, and red.  They may have small fluid filled blisters, called vesicles. Chronic types of eczema lead to long term discomfort and itching. Atopic eczema is the most common type of chronic eczema.  Dyshdrotic eczema on the hands and feet, stasis eczema, and nummular eczema are other types of eczema. What causes eczema? The exact cause of eczema is not known.  It is probably related to an overactive inflammatory response.   Atopic eczema is probably inherited.  It is commonly found in individuals with a family history of asthma and allergies. The Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Categories of Eczema Chinese medicine takes a holistic approach to diagnosing eczema, considering physical, emotional, and environmental factors. The primary diagnosis is made by looking at the skin.  This is combined with information from taking the pulse, observing the tongue and the skin, and asking in depth questions. In Chinese medicine, too much heat is a common cause of eczema, which leads to the itch, redness, and irritation.  Other imbalances called dampness can result in swelling and vesicles. Another possible imbalance is too little energy, or what we call “qi deficiency.”  The acupuncture and herbs help to clear the heat from the body or to boost the body’s energy If you have questions about acupuncture and Chinese herbs for eczema, please e-mail or call us 917-887-4946 to make an appointment. Read More: Acupuncture for Atopic Eczema Acupuncture for Allergies Resetting the Immune System with Acupuncture Tags: Acupuncture , Allergies , asthma , balance , cause of eczema , chinese medicine , hands and feet , heat , herbs , holistic approach , inflammation , medicine approach , qi Posted in Dermatology | No Comments » Traditional Chinese Medicine: A Literary Medicine Nov 29, 2011 “And when you do find one, observe with care…they almost always have crystals in their hearts.” From Love in the Time of Cholera by Gabriel Garcia Marquez To understand Chinese medicine better, we also have to think about how acupuncture and Chinese medicine conceptualize and describe the body. The Language of Acupuncture and Chinese medicine Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese medicine is a comprehensive medical system with it own diagnosis and treatment.  The terminology and language is also unique. Sometimes, acupuncture language may sound a little magical.  We may say that a headache is caused by liver qi stagnation in one person but in another person it may be from heat.  Similarly, anxiety can come from heart blood vacuity but it also can be related to heat irritating the heart. It is very important that the language and theory is consistent throughout the acupuncture diagnosis and treatment.  In fact, if the wrong diagnosis is made, say heat instead of liver qi stagnation, the incorrect treatment will be used which can make the condition worse. I like to think of these imbalances as metaphors describing the symptoms of your illness. A Scholarly History The causes and treatment of disease have been debated, discussed, and experimented with by clinicians and scholars throughout the more than 2500 years of Chinese medicine history. They have evolved, as historian Paul Unschuld has written, into a system of medical correspondences. These debates still continue today about the best methods to approach and treat different diseases. Health in Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture and Chinese medicine view health as a state of balance in the body, as well as balance within the enviornment. Some of the most common imbalances pertain to the body’s energy, or qi.   The qi can be too little, what we call qi vacuity, or it may not circulate as it should, called qi stagnation. Other imbalances coorespond to the enviornment.  Cold, heat, dryness, and wind can all cause diseases. The Body Acupuncture Acupuncture Channels Acupuncture visualizes the body as a complex interconnected web.  Meridians travelling throughout the body, connecting the surface to the interior, the upper body with the lower body. The body’s energy circulates freely.  If there is too little energy or if the energy gets stuck, imbalances occur.  A build up of any imbalance, heat, cold, stagnation, or others leads to developing into an illness. To correct the imbalance, we use acupuncture points and treatment methods specific to your imbalance. For example, a headache from liver qi stagnation, we could use the acupuncture points LI 4, Liver 3, and Liver 14.  But if it is from heat, we may choose Liver 2, Gallbladder 34, and San Jiao 5. photo: geishaboy500 Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture points , balance , chinese medicine , Chinese medicine history , health , heat , qi , Traditional Chinese Medicine Posted in History of Chinese Medicine | No Comments » Next Page » Request an Appointment Call 917.887.4946 or click to SEARCH Sign up Enter your email address: GET RSS FEED CATEGORIES Select Category Acupressure Acupuncture Allergies Chinese Herbs Chronic Pain Relief Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome Common Cold and Flu Dermatology Digestive Conditions Food as Medicine History of Chinese Medicine Improve Your Health Insomnia Mind and Body Wellness ARCHIVES Select Month April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 October 2008 August 2008 Like us on Facebook RECENT BLOG POSTS Acupuncture for Chronic Sinusitis The Causes of Migraine Headaches Recommended by LEGAL Joseph Alban is a licensed acupuncturist.  All information provided on alban acupuncture.com is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not meant for diagnosis or treatment. If you have a specific health concern, please contact us at 917.887.4946 regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations with respect to your symptoms or medical condition. © Alban Acupuncture P.C., New York City Acupuncture