
Brandywine Counseling and Community Services Treatment Brandywine Counseling and Community Services Treatment Home Concierge Medicine Private Contact Brandywine Counseling and Community Services Treatment Brandywine Counseling and Community Services (302) 656-2348 www.brandywinecounseling.org 2713 Lancaster Avenue Wilmington DE 19805 Celebrity Services Mix of mental health and substance abuse services Services Provided: Substance abuse treatment, Methadone Maintenance, Buprenorphine Services Type of Care: Outpatient, Partial hospitalization/day treatment Special Programs/Groups: Persons with co-occurring mental and substance abuse disorders, Persons with HIV/AIDS, Pregnant/postpartum women, Men, Criminal justice clients Criminal Justice Addiction Treatment Research shows that treatment for offenders who are addicted to drugs during and after incarceration can have a significant effect on future drug use, criminal behavior and social functioning. There is a compelling case for integrating drug addiction treatment approaches in the criminal justice system. Combining treatment in prison and in the community for addicted offenders reduces the risk of both recidivism to criminal behavior related to drugs and relapse to drug use, which, in turn, nets huge savings in societal costs. One study found that prisoners who participated in a therapeutic treatment program in the Delaware State prison system and continued to receive treatment in a work and release program after prison were 70 percent less likely than nonparticipants to return to drug use and incur arrest again. Working the Night Shift Try to limit night shift work, if that is possible. If working  the night shift, the following tips may help people sleep better and avoid  sleepiness: Increase the total       amount of sleep by adding naps and lengthening the amount of time allotted       for sleep. Use bright lights in the       workplace. Minimize shift changes       so that the biological clock of the body can adjust to a nighttime work       schedule. Get rid of sound and       light distractions in the bedroom during daytime sleep. Use caffeine only during       the first part of a shift to promote alertness at night. If sleep does not come during the day and all else fails,  talk with a doctor to see if it would be wise to use prescribed, short-acting  sleeping pills to help sleep during the day. Dealing with Jet Lag Eastward travel generally causes more severe jet lag than  westward travel because traveling east requires people to shorten the day and the  biological clock is better able to adjust to a longer day than a shorter day. Fortunately  for globetrotters, a few preventive measures and treatments seem to help some  people relieve jet lag. Adjust the biological clock. Several days before traveling  to a new time zone, gradually shift sleeping patterns and eating times to  coincide with those at the final eastern destination. People can also adjust the  biological clock by using light therapy. This involves exposure to special  lights, many times brighter than ordinary household light, for several hours  near to the new wake up time. Alternatively, after arrival, spend a lot of time  outdoors to make sure the body gets the light cues it needs to adjust to the  new time zone. Avoid alcohol and caffeine. Although it may be tempting to  drink alcohol to relieve the stress of travel and make it easier to fall  asleep, people more likely to sleep lighter and wake up in the middle of the  night when the effects of the alcohol wear off. Caffeine can help keep people  awake longer, but caffeine can also make it harder for people to fall asleep if  its effects have not worn off by bed time. What about melatonin? The body produces the melatonin  hormone to make the body drowsy. Melatonin builds up in the body as the night  progresses and decreases when daylight arrives. Melatonin is available as an over-the-counter supplement.  Because melatonin is safe when used over a period of days or weeks and seems to  contribute to feeling sleepy, it is a treatment for jet lag. Nevertheless, the  effectiveness of melatonin is controversial and its safety when used over a  prolonged period is unclear. Some studies find that taking melatonin  supplements before bedtime for several days after arrival in a new time zone  can make it easier to fall asleep at the proper time. Other studies find that  melatonin does not help to relieve jet lag. Be aware that adjusting to a new time zone may take several  days. If traveling away for just a few days, it may be better to stick to the  original sleep and wake times as much as possible, rather than adjusting the  biological clock too many times in rapid succession. Find Concierge Doctor: Concierge Medicine Concierge Concierge Medical Practice Concierge Medicine Home Contact Concierge Medicine Private Executive Health Executive Medicine Executive Physical Hollywood A Rehabs Are Alfa Rehabs Addiction Treatment Medication California Concierge Medicine California Concierge Physicians Concierge Doctors Directory Concierge Doctors New York Concierge MD Concierge Medicine California Concierge Medicine Directory Addicts Use Drugs All Rehabs B Rehabs Are Bravo Rehabs Behavioral Treatments Behavioral Treatments For Adolescents C Rehabs Are Charlie Rehabs Center For Substance Abuse Treatment Coexisting Disorders Addiction Treatment Comorbid Drug Abuse And Mental Disorders Comorbid Drug Abuse And Mental Illness Comorbidity Diagnoses And Treatment Comprehensive Drug Abuse Treatment Criminal Justice Addiction Treatment D Rehabs Are Delta Rehabs Drug Abuse And Mental Disorders Drug Addiction Drug Addiction Treatment Drug Addiction Treatment Duration Drug Addiction Treatment Effectiveness Drug Addiction Treatment Is Cost Effective Concierge Medicine LA Concierge Medicine Los Angeles House Call MD House Calls Kneeling LA Concierge Medicine LA House Call MD Los Angeles Concierge Medicine Los Angles Concierge MD NYC Concierge Physician Drug Addiction World Drug Treatment Categories E Rehabs Are Echo Rehabs Effective Treatment Approaches Effective Treatment Principles Exercise In Addiction Treatment F Rehabs Are Foxtrot Rehabs Female Drug Abuse Finding Addiction Treatment Information G Rehabs Are Golf Rehabs H Rehabs Are Hotel Rehabs I Rehabs Are India Rehabs Individualized Dependency Treatment Individualized Drug Counseling Patient Direct Payment Private Doctor Private MD Private Pay Health Care Private Pay Patients Private Physician Retainer Medicine Self Pay Health Care Self Pay Patients J Rehabs Are Juliett Rehabs K Rehabs Are Kilo Rehabs L Rehabs Are Lima Rehabs Long Term Residential Treatment M Rehabs Are Mike Rehabs N Rehabs Are November Rehabs Nicotine Replacement With Behavioral Treatment O Rehabs Are Oscar Rehabs Older Adult Addiction Treatments Outpatient Treatment P Rehabs Are Papa Rehabs Passages Malibu Treatment Prescription Drug Addiction Principles Of Effective Treatment Q Rehabs Are Quebec Rehabs R Rehabs Are Romeo Rehabs Residential Treatment Programs S Rehabs Are Sierra Rehabs Short Term Residential Treatment Staying In Treatment Steroid Abuse Treatment Substance Abuse Treatment Center T Rehabs Are Tango Rehabs Treatment Approaches For Drug Addiction Treatment Gap Treatment Medications Treatment Within The Criminal Justice System U Rehabs Are Uniform Rehabs V Rehabs Are Victor Rehabs W Rehabs Are Whiskey Rehabs Workplace Treatment Role X Rehabs Are Xray Rehabs Y Rehabs Are Yankee Rehabs Z Rehabs Are Zulu Rehabs Brandywine Counseling and Community Serv Crossroads of Delaware Inc Treatment Hogar CREA International of DE Mens Cent Latin American Community Center Treatmen Latin American Community Center Wilmingt North East Treatment Centers Kirkwood De Pace Inc Treatment SODAT Delaware Inc Treatment Management Consulting Services Treatment Quest Counseling Center Inc Treatment ACT Center Inc Treatment Tri County Human Services Highlands Outp Tri County Human Services RASUW Center f Oakwood Center of the Palm Beaches Panda Abusive Partners Program of Palm Beach T Advanced Recovery Center Inc Treatment Concierge Medicine Private www.conciergemedicinepr