
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 06:42:13 GMT
Server: Apache mod_fcgid/2.3.5
ETag: "4cf131cd4ca7d0ca580bddd9d5044832"
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Last-Modified: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 03:42:42 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Diabetes and Cinnamon Back Pain Eating Disorders Headaches Infectious Disease Parkinson's Snoring Weightloss Search Search the web Search www.fountia.com Home Diabetes and Cinnamon Recently, an interesting correlation between the usage of cinnamon and the prevention of some of the symptoms of diabetes was discovered. Known for a long time as a spice that helps with energy, cinnamon can be a low cost addition to help strengthen a diabetes regimen. Funded by DAREF, the Diabetes Action Research and Education Foundation , Dr. Richard Anderson performed a study on the possible useful effects of cinnamon for diabetes at the United States Department of Agricultures Human Nutrition Research Center. Mr. Anderson was able to actually isolate the compound in cinnamon which is responsible for some of the great effects that cinnamon can have for a diabetic. Polymers and Proteins The compound, featuring specific Type-A polymers, was found to effectively lower blood sugar in those with diabetes. In addition, the polymers were found to decrease a patients total cholesterol by up to 26 percent. Low density lipoproteins which are commonly known as the bad type of cholesterol were lowered 10 to 24 percent by the intake of the polymers, and triglycerides decreased by 23 to 30 percent. This research is of deep significance to those that are afflicted with diabetes. What may be more important as regards this discovery are the effects that this compound can have on the millions of people who have been diagnosed with pre-diabetes. It can help to delay the onset of diabetes, and can give you time to learn about the condition and how to keep it from taking a significant toll on your health. Enzymes and Insulin The polymers found in cinnamon were found to help diabetics in two specific ways; first, the compound was found to make the enzymes that may be responsible for insulin resistance decrease their effects. This is of utmost importance for those with Type II diabetes which often have an insulin resistance problem to blame for their condition. Secondly, when taking the compound, patients were found to have an increased sensitivity to insulin in their body, helping insulin be distributed more effectively. The polymers that were extracted from this study are now clinically available, and have been patented as the compound known as Cinnulin PF . This water-soluble extract is the only compound of this type that has been approved. Cinnulin Supplements There are many different supplements that contain the Cinnulin PF compound, and it shouldnt be hard to find. It is important to note that you absolutely SHOULD NOT consume heavy amounts of normal cinnamon to try to get these effects. In high doses, cinnamon has been found to be toxic due to a fat soluble component it contains. If you are unable to purchase one of the supplements that contains Cinnulin PF, a quarter to a full teaspoon of cinnamon can be taken to help your health. One way of making this supplement more tolerable would be to add it to drinks such as milkshakes or tea. While cinnamon is also one of the key ingredients in apple pie, this food should be avoided for the most part due to its fat and sugar content. See Also: Continuous Glucose Monitoring Diabetes See Also Diabetes Testing Diabetic Blood Sugar Levels Diabetes Medications A.D.D. Allergies Alzheimer's Arthritis Asthma Autism Back Pain Blood Pressure Cancers Chickenpox Diabetes Eczema Gastrointestinal Headaches Heart Hepatitis IBS Maternity Menopause Mumps Obesity Parkinsons Sl