Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Valerian | Muscle Relaxant Valerian Muscle Relaxant muscle relaxers | natural relaxant | best natural muscle relaxer | buy muscle relaxers | formula 303 natural muscle relaxant | valerian muscle relaxant / over the counter muscle relaxer / natural muscle relaxants for back pain / Valerian Benefits and History Valerin Natural Relaxant A good herbal muscle relaxer that is readily available would be valerian, usually mixed with kava- kava root. Valerian is among the most common herbal remedies for muscle pain available on the market and has been proven effective time and time again. Read More or Buy Nature's Way - Valerian Root, 530 mg, 180 capsules at Amazon The kava-kava root is there to amplify the effects of the valerian, but may also be mixed in for a variety of other purposes. However, valerian is best used for smooth muscle tissue and is not as effective when used on problems caused by injuries. The analgesic, anti-spasmic, and anti-inflammatory properties of valerian make it a very flexible herbal remedy for dealing with muscle problems and low levels of pain. Valerian, also known as Valeriana officinalis is a perennial plant native to Europe and Asia and has naturalized in North America. Valerian is one of the key ingredients in our natural relaxant Formula 303. It seems that insomnia is not really a new occurrence in our society; Valerian, as found in our Formula 303, has been used as a medicinal herb since the time of ancient Greece and Rome. The therapeutic uses of Valerian were described by Hippocrates. Galen first prescribed the insomnia remedy, Valerian, for insomnia in the second century. By the 16th century, it was being used to treat nervousness, shakiness, headaches, and even heart palpitations.  Valerian was used during World War II in England as a natural remedy for stress following air raids. It has been shown through preliminary clinical research that the sedative and anti-anxiety effects of Valerian occur as a result of direct action on the GABA neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. It is believed that valepotriates and the GABA phytochemical extracts from the root are responsible for the sedative effects. There are numerous studies and anecdotal reports of the valerian root benefits. When people think of Valerian, anxiety remedy often comes to mind. Other uses for Valerian have included: restlessness, sleeping disorders based on nervous conditions, anxiety, helping to control panic attacks naturally, tension headaches, intestinal cramps, muscle spasms, menstrual cramps and overall relaxing of the body.  Our specially formulated combination is better than typical Valerian tablets or other valerian herb supplements because it is a powerful combination of ingredients for insomnia, relaxation, tension and muscle spasm. If you see a valerian root sale, don’t be misled, you want Formula 303’s powerful combination of ingredients. Read More or Buy Nature's Way - Valerian Root, 530 mg, 180 capsules at Amazon •	Due to safety concerns in women who are pregnant or nursing, we recommend that you should not take valerian without medical advice because the possible risks to the fetus or infant have not been evaluated. Also, we recommend that you do not give Valerian products to children under age 3 years because the possible risks to children of this age have not been evaluated. As always, if you have questions, you should consult your family physician or healthcare provider. Bookmark This Page So You Could Find It Later! Thread muscle relaxants neck pain herbal muscle relaxer herbal supplements muscle relaxers list muscle spasms muscle spasm relief muscle pain natural anti inflammatory natural anti inflammatories - Green Lipped Mussel natural stress relievers New posts: Natural muscle relaxer tea Natural muscle relaxer magnesium Home Page natural muscle relaxer About Us | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | ©2011 ProgDevo Media Reviews herbs herbal therapy muscle relaxant herbal muscle relaxant drugs muscle relaxer otc formula 303 side effects natural ingredients valerin natural relaxant back pain herbs for health medicinal herbs muscle relaxing herbs muscle relaxant medication muscle spasm remedy muscular