Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Stop smoking quickly and easily with Hypnotherapy and NLP Add this site to your favourites Home Hypnotherapy Q&A's About Jo Ellis Prices What our clients say NLP Coaching Business Coaching A-Z Hypnotherapy programmes available Be more confident Drink less alcohol Get over your phobia Balloon Phobia/Globophobia Bee & Wasp Phobia Fear of Dogs/Cynophobia Fear of Public Speaking Fear of Vomiting/Being Sick Spider Phobia Lower your blood pressure Lose weight Manage your pain Sleep better Stop smoking Stop worry, anxiety and panic attacks Book an appointment Personal Development Products/Shop Our location Train in Hypnosis/NLP Home > Stop smoking with hypnosis Hypnotherapy has been proven time and time again to be the most successful way to help people get rid of their smoking habit. Have you tried to stop smoking before but been unsuccessful? Are you ready to give up on your smoking habit and be so control of your body that you can reduce any cravings? Would you like to become a healthy non-smoker quickly and easily? Would you like a supportive helping hand to help you become not just a non smoker but smoke free for the rest of your life? Hypnotherapy has been proven time and time again to be the most successful way to help people give up smoking - and to give up smoking easily without the need for any elusive willpower, pills or nicotine patches and without any weight gain. Most patients who successfully give up smoking with hypnotherapy require just one double session and are surprised at how easy they find become a non smoker. Are you ready to choose a healthier life today? We have two options available to you - you can attend a 1-2-1 stop smoking workshops or you can purchase a stop smoking hypnosis cd. More information on Pure Confidence Stop Smoking in One Session Hypnosis Consultations. More information on our Stop Smoking Hypnosis MP3's and CD Recordings More information on Pure Confidence's 1-2-1 Stop Smoking Workshops/Consultations How many sessions will I need to stop smoking? Most people stop after just the one session very occasionally some people require  two sessions. What happens during a typical stop smoking hypnotherapy session? We will simply begin  with a chat to find out a bit more about your smoking habit.  The more I understand about why, when and how much you smoke and why you want to give up, the easier it will be to tailor the hypnotherapy and coaching to match your  motivations. The stop smoking session starts with some NLP exercises designed to change the way you feel about cigarettes and to offer you alternative ways to deal with certain situations as  a non smoker and to build the image of you as a new healthy non smoker. Smoking is a habit which is regulated by our subconscious mind. When  you are in a relaxed hypnotic trance, we can access your subconscious mind to  reprogramme your mind and your behaviours. By making  the changes at the subconscious level, they are more deep-rooted and longer lasting. During the stop smoking hypnosis session, you will Learn two techniques to zap away any cravings you may have after the session for the short time whilst your body detoxes. Discover techniques to calm yourself down in stressful situations without the need for a cigarette. Put you back in control of your life so you are no longer a slave to nicotine. Learn self hypnosis techniques so that you can reinforce your new non smoking lifestyle whenever you choose. Will it work? What is your success rate? Tests have shown that hypnotherapy  is one of the best ways to stop smoking with a much higher success rate than nicotine patches or gum. I have an excellent success rate and always follow up with all my clients to see how they are doing. Using hypnotherapy to stop smoking works best when you come with an open mind and are ready for change. Just by visiting this website, it is likely that you have reached the point where you have had enough of smoking and are desperate to stop. "Hi Jo, Hope you are well. Just came across your email whilst having a bit of a tidy up. 
    Thanks to you and  the hypnotherapy I've been smoke free for almost a year now :) Many thanks Louise" I am worried I may put on weight if I stop smoking The reason a lot of people put on weight when they stop smoking is because they may smoke for an emotional reason such as a way to deal with stress or boredom. Many then simply reach for food instead of a cigarette as a way to deal with their boredom or stress. As hypnotherapy treats the emotional reasons you are much less likely to gain weight in fact many of my clients have lost weight as they have felt the need to become more active and healthier as they start their new lives as non-smokers. Hi Jo, Thanks for the amazing experience on Friday, I really  enjoyed it and feel it has helped me reach that life changing decision. Just to let you know I got through the weekend without any  problem.  I was offered a cigarette on Saturday at cricket and, before I  could think, simply said "No thanks, I don't smoke".  Best wishes How much does it cost? The initial consultation is £120.00 and will take up to 3 - 4 hours. If a second consultation is required within one year, this is offered free of charge. To confirm your booking, you need to pay a deposit of £20.00. This is refundable if you cancel your booking with 48 hours notice but is retained in cases of no show or last minute cancellations. Stop Smoking Consultations Stop Smoking Deposit £20.00 GBP Stop Smoking Full Payment £120.00 GBP MP3 Hypnosis Recordings/CD Rom Hypnosis Recordings Download one or more of the following MP3's (also available on CD-Rom) and listen to in the comfort of your own home. Downloads are just £6.99 and are recorded by professional and experienced hypnotherapists at Hypnotic World one of the leading online resources for Clinical Hypnotherapists. Cutting Down on Smoking            Hypnosis MP3 Download Subscribe to our mailing list We will not share your details. We dislike spam as much as you do. Want to reduce your smoking or only smoke in social situations? Use this hypnosis MP3 to cut down on cigarettes. Download and benefit from this hypnosis MP3: Cutting Down on Smoking            Hypnosis MP3 Download See how much money you can save by giving up smoking... Number of years you have smoked: Average number of cigarettes you smoke each day: Average price for a pack of cigarettes (in pounds) What to do next? If you are ready to stop smoking, please give me a call now on 0800 644 0673 or send me an email to book your appointment.  I look forward to working with you to help you create positive change in your life and an exciting healthy smoke free future. If you are unable to get to me, or wish to stop smoking in the comfort of your own home, you can also download one of our range of stop smoking MP3's or purchase one of our stop smoking CD's. Stopping Smoking Hypnosis MP3 Download Stop Smoking with Self Hypnosis using this professionally-recorded hypnosis MP3 download or CD from Hypnotic World Download and benefit from this hypnosis MP3: Stopping Smoking Hypnosis MP3 Download When do the health  benefits from not smoking begin? After 20 minutes Your blood pressure returns to a level close to that before your last  cigarette. After 8 hours The carbon-monoxide level in your blood returns to normal. After 24 hours Your chance of a heart attack drops. Within 3 months Your circulation improves and your lung function will increase by up to 30% After 1 year The excess risk of coronary heart disease is half that of a smoker´s. After 5 years Stroke risk is reduced to that of someone who has never smoked After 10 years The lung cancer death rate is about half that of a continuing smoker´s.  The risk of cancer of the mouth, throat,  oesophagus, bladder, kidney and pancreas decreases. After 15 years The risk of coronary heart disease is that of someone who has never smoked. "I've had no desire to smoke at all the last week or so.  In fact
        whilst out watching the rugby in a pub last week' a  thought jumped into my head without prompting. Basically it was a cue to have a
        cigarette but instead my mind said " this is when I would have a fag
        when I used to smoke".I also have found that as a cigarette and a beer were so intertwined that I no longer fancy a beer.  My wife thinks I have gone mad! Its nice not to be held hostage by a cigarette." Pure Confidence Hypnotherapy is based in Sompting, Lancing near Worthing and Brighton. We also have an office in Lingfield, Surrey. We are in easy reach of London (1 hour), Horsham (30 mins), Haywards Heath (30 mins), Crawley (20 minutes), Brighton (45 minutes) and Tunbridge Wells (30 minutes). Joanna Ellis (Dip. C. Hyp. NLP) has successfully helped many people give up smoking. She holds the Diploma in Clinical Hypnotherapy with CBT and NLP. She is fully insured with Holistic Insurance and registered with the General Hypnotherapy Standards Council. *Based on Smoking Calculator ( license ) Copyright 2007 - 2012 © All rights reserved Pure Confidence. Pure Confidence is a Mind Body Confidence Company. www.pureconfidence.co.uk Freephone 0800 644 0673 Hypnotherapy, NLP and coaching in West Sussex Code of Ethics | Hypnotherapy in the News | Contact us | Where are we | Reiki treatments | My commitment to you | Links | Testimonials Sitemap | Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Website Terms & Conditions | Business T