
Skin Cancer Prevention and Treatment Strategies Skin cancer prevention and treatment strategies
are presented that can be used against squamous cell carcinoma or
basal cell carcinoma lesions. These strategies target the traits
of skin cancers identified in the natural cancer treatments overview . This continues with 22 more
strategies to consider at your own risk. See the statement of caution and
disclaimer . Basal and Squamous Cell Carcinoma Treatment
Strategies Part II See the
first 17 strategies for squamous and basal cell carcinoma (18) Consider adding polyphenols to your diet or
apply them topically. Polyphenols act as powerful
antioxidants and seem to disrupt cancer by inhibiting estrogen
from reacting with the cell. Polyphenols may also help activate
cancer fighting enzymes. A widely studied polyphenol example is
green tea. Applied topically, it has been shown to protect
against skin cancers and may also be a treatment. A polyphenol in green 
tea called EGCG binds to a protein found on tumor cells and dramatically slows 
their growth. Skin cancer
incidence is also less prevalent in tea drinkers. Tea also contains caffeine, revealed
in an animal study to provide protection against
skin cancers when applied topically. Caffeine apparently promotes a natural self 
destruction mechanism of cells called apoptosis . This causes damaged 
cells to kill themselves, a type of programmed cell suicide that prevents 
development of abnormal growths. Caffeine acts selectively, causing the aberrant 
cells to die while not affecting normal cells. Inexpensive caffeine supplements 
(Enerjets®, NoDoz®, Snap-Back®, Stay-Alert®, Vivarin®) are available that could  
be ground into a powder and added to a skin lotion, coconut oil, or aloe vera 
gel as a potential topical skin cancer home remedy.  It is interesting that caffeine is an
alkaline chemical even though coffee and tea are acidic. Despite doing some good things, tea is less than an ideal candidate for 
skin cancer treatments because it introduces other problems.  Tea has a high
fluoride content so moderation in consumption levels is
appropriate. Fluoride can cause genetic damage, interfere with enzyme reactions, 
and increase IGF-1 which seems to promote the rapid growth of cancers. EGCG in tea interferes with the function of folic acid and can lead 
to spina bifida birth defects. Folic acid inhibition is  
detrimental to some types of cancers but can also harm normal cells and increase 
sun sensitivity. Another topical candidate is extra virgin olive oil, shown to 
inhibit cancers when applied to animals exposed to radiation. This is probably 
due to the polyphenols found in olive oil. Fruits, vegetables, and even 
chocolate are other polyphenol sources.  Topical application of cocoa butter, 
an ingredient of chocolate, may 
be helpful for skin cancer. Palmitic acid, a saturated fat found 
in high concentration in cocoa butter, is very toxic to damaged tissues and promotes 
their natural self destruction apoptosis mechanism. 
Cancer cells usually have a defective apoptosis mechanism and try to live 
indefinitely. Palmitic acid is the direct precursor of ceramide, a signaling molecule 
for regulating the differentiation (changeover from a cancer cell to a more 
normal cell), proliferation, and 
apoptosis of cells.  Ceramides are found in high concentrations within the 
cell membrane of cells.  They are released from the cell membrane by 
enzymes and then act as a signaling molecule. Topical application of palmitic 
acid on skin cancer could enhance the natural ceramide signaling function substantially. (19) Consider topical pancreatin treatments. The fact that skin cancer is accessible for direct topical
treatments is a unique opportunity that does not exist for most
cancers. Topical treatments are also probably less dependent on
the protein fast to work. They can be expected to work faster
than oral supplementation because the pancreatin delivered to the
site is concentrated. I think it may be a mistake to use topical
treatments alone because that is going back to treating symptoms
instead of causes. My first exposure to topical pancreatin treatments
involved applying a commercial mosquito bite remedy called Cymilium .
Cymilium costs around $8 but is now difficult to find. I have
tried to isolate the active ingredients in Cymilium with
components available at the supermarket that will cost around $15,
but for a more adaptable supply that should last much longer. I think the most important ingredients in Cymilium are pancreatin, 
aloe vera, ammonia, urea, and possibly stearic acid. The pancreatin source I 
used is a enzymatic cleaning solution to remove protein on contact lenses called Alcon Opti-free
SupraClens. It comes as a liquid in a small dropper bottle. SupraClens is
inexpensive (~$6), widely available, and should have excellent
quality control. Others have used conventional enzyme supplements
in topical preparations. The Super Enzymes by NOW product
is easy to use because it is a powder in
a gelatin capsule. Just pull apart the capsule to add the powder to the topical 
base such as a skin cream or aloe vera gel. Twinlabs also makes a gelatin capsule
supplement. Aloe vera is easily spread and absorbed into the skin.
It  contains amylase enzymes that provide better access for the protein
dissolving enzymes to attack the cancer. Aloe vera also contains
polysaccharides that enhance another cancer control mechanism involving special 
white blood cells known as natural killer cells. Applying pancreatin topically seems be more effective using an
alkaline agent, such as ammonia or baking soda to create a non-acidic
environment. Ammonia is probably more effective but is
potentially less safe to use. Ammonia by itself is a 
topical treatment candidate because cancer cells have been shown
to die in an alkaline (at pH greater than 8.5) environment.
Household ammonia typically has a pH of about 11.5, making it
about 1000 times more alkaline than baking soda that has a pH of
about 8.5. Each change in the pH scale by one is a factor of ten
different in concentration. Consider ammonia products cautiously because they 
can vary widely in
strength and strong industrial solutions can cause burn-like
wounds to the skin. Also, even dilute ammonia can cause permanent harm if it
contacts the eyes. Here is a link to the most recent topical skin cancer formulas. Topical
enzyme treatments are extremely powerful but little is known at
this time regarding their safe and effective use. This web site has been active 
for several years.  Thankfully, many people have written regarding success 
with various topical preparations on skin cancers.  As a word of advice, no 
one has yet reported success without incorporating some topical strategies.  Providing
occasional rest days without topical treatments to let the skin
recover is also a good idea.  If you are considering topical
application of pancreatin or ammonia, look first at their material safety data
sheets . (20) Reconsider the use of absorptive chemical
sunscreens. The chemicals in sunscreens used to absorb sunlight are 
difficult to recommend as they have strong estrogenic properties. That is the 
body responds to them as if they were estrogen. Especially think carefully about 
cosmetics that are used on a daily basis such as make-up. Many cosmetic makers 
have added absorptive sunscreens to these products. I would choose a brand 
without these sunscreen chemicals. An indication these chemicals have been added 
is a high SPF noted on the label. Many sunscreen chemicals used in popular US 
products are banned in European countries for health concerns. Another risk is 
inadvertently feminizing developing children as they are routinely slathered 
with these hormone-like chemicals. The Sunscreen Myth (comic) The benefits of
absorptive sunscreens in preventing cell damage perhaps
outweigh the detriments for skin cancer, but it is a closer call than we are led 
to believe. If excessive sun exposure can not be avoided, common sense dictates 
that occasional sunscreen use is preferable to sunburns. But stimulating the 
growth of existing skin and other perhaps fledgling cancers with estrogenic 
chemicals is undesirable. To prevent UV light from damaging a cell, a sunscreen will either 
reflect or absorb the radiation. Most popular sunscreens work by absorbing UV 
radiation.  There are safer alternatives to consider including reflective sunscreens based on
titanium dioxide and zinc oxide.  Wear protective
clothing and avoid the most intense sunlight of midday. Easily sunburned skin may be related to deficiencies of folate. Consider supplementing  inexpensive folic acid which is a significant positive (good) risk factor for
cancer. On the other hand, vitamin B2 riboflavin is a cellular photosensitizer that worsens damage caused by solar radiation. The combination of vitamin B2 (riboflavin) with ultraviolet-A radiation 
has recently been shown to increase gene mutations by 7 times compared to UV-A 
radiation exposure alone. [ Proceedings National Academy of 
Sciences 104: 5953-58, 2007] Vitamin C was shown in the same 
study to inhibit the genetic mutations caused by the combination of UV-A 
radiation and riboflavin. Taking high doses of riboflavin (RDA=1.7mg) daily 
is not recommended. Despite the intense campaign to promote the use of
sunscreens, it is hard to see the progress in reducing skin
cancer rates. Melanoma rates are highest in areas of the
world where these chemicals are most widely applied, possibly
because absorptive sunscreens do not prevent damage to the cell's
DNA caused by ultraviolet-C. Since sunscreens are effective at preventing sunburn, the
user may also be more inclined to spend much more time in the sun. Application of
sunscreen with an SPF factor of 8 or greater reduces production of vitamin D by 95%. Because very few foods naturally contain vitamin D, the
ultraviolet-B spectrum of sunlight supplies most of our requirement.
Unfortunately, the same ultraviolet-B spectrum is responsible for sunburns.  
But limiting sun exposure and applying sunscreen can result in a
vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D plays a key role in many body
processes including maintaining calcium balance, inhibiting cell
proliferation, stimulating cell differentiation, controlling
blood glucose levels, and improving immune system function. Vitamin D3 
stimulates the synthesis of binding proteins that block  IGF-1, a hormone 
that fuels cancer growth.  These
are all good things for treating and preventing skin cancer. A half hour of summer sun exposure wearing a T
shirt and shorts can produce 10000 IU of natural vitamin D (current RDA=400 IU) that is absorbed through skin oils. Delay washing skin both before and after
sun exposure to maximize vitamin D absorption. Consider vitamin D
supplements especially if ultraviolet sun exposure is minimal.  The 400 IU 
RDA level for vitamin D is widely considered to be inadequate for optimal 
health.  Daily supplementation of vitamin D3 in the 1000 to 4000 IU range 
is probably a more desirable level for people that have minimal exposure to the 
sun. (21) Aloe Vera is a mild immune 
system stimulant that is perhaps useful in topical treatments. Aloe vera gel is 
easily absorbed by the skin and supplies amylase enzymes that give protein 
dissolving enzymes better access to cancer cells. Aloe vera is also a source of 
polysaccharides that help the liver to detoxify wastes and enhance natural 
killer cell function. Aloe vera is one of the ingredients in the original 
Cymilium insect bite product I used topically on my skin cancer. I applied a 
glob of aloe vera gel to each of my legs once or twice each day to help detoxify 
the destroyed cancer cells in the blood and liver. I originally used Panama Jack 
Green Ice because it did not contain alcohol. It did seem to help any bruised 
looking surrounding skin to look and feel better within several minutes. There 
is controversy over aloe's effectiveness in healing cancer, but it does not seem 
to be harmful and may help synergistically with other treatment strategies. Aloe 
vera products vary widely in concentration and additives. Real aloe vera gel is 
not green. (22) Saw Palmetto Extract is 
effective in slowing the undesired growth of male prostate gland in some cases. 
Such growth is sometimes due to or develops into slow growing cancers. It may 
work by deactivating female hormones or supplying weaker versions of these 
hormones. In that role it could help control skin cancer growth. Other plant 
sterol ( phytosterol ) products, typically marketed to improve cholesterol 
levels, may help as well. (23) Reduce further cell damage. Avoid excessive sun exposure, ionizing radiation, or any toxins that may damage the skin, giving new
cancers a place to start.  Avoid skin contact with used motor oil, herbicides, 
insecticides, or insect repellents.  The developer of the widely used Ames 
test for carcinogens discounts the importance of the role of insecticide 
residues on foods in cancer because the amounts are so tiny, countering a 
commonly held belief that they play a major role. He's probably right, but 
rinsing fruits and vegetables and buying organically grown food when possible 
still makes sense. Many insecticides have estrogenic properties that could 
potentially promote cancer growth. Discontinue tobacco use. Smoking is the highest risk factor 
for cancer in general and probably is a significant risk factor for skin 
cancers.  Both sun exposure and tobacco use skin cancer risks are probably 
amplified by consuming polyunsaturated (omega 6) vegetable oils in the diet 
(margarine, salad dressings, fried and baked foods). This is because 
polyunsaturated fats in the diet become incorporated into unstable cell 
structures that are easily damaged by ultraviolet light or tobacco smoke. (24) Lose body fat by consuming fewer
calories each day and exercising more. This is known to reduce
female hormone levels in the body. Examples at the extreme are
very lean female athletes such as marathon runners whose intense
training sometimes induces the cessation of menstrual cycles. Female hormones
are one of the three necessary factors for cancer, and this at
least partially explains the widely recognized obesity link to
cancer. Female hormone replacement therapy seems like a bad idea
concerning cancer treatment and prevention. Calorie restricted
diets (20% below normal) have been shown to reduce tumor
development in animals administered carcinogens. One study found that calorie
restricted diet reduced levels of the growth hormone factor IGF-1.
The advantage of the calorie restricted diet disappeared when IGF-1
levels were restored to normal. Again, dairy
products are a leading source of IGF-1 (cancer growth promoter)
in the diet. Although growth hormone promoters are advertised as
a fountain of youth, I would be very cautious about using them in
the face of cancer. One good way to eat less is to put the "fast"
back in breakfast. I think the body may need regular and
significant periods of time without food in order to optimally
absorb enzymes into the blood to fight cancer. This may be true
even if using enzyme supplements. Try to limit eating before
sleeping. Get enough sleep. Consider extending your daily fast by
skipping a meal occasionally. Incidentally, occasionally skipping
meals has been shown to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease
and diabetes. The connection here is that natural diabetes
control, like natural cancer control, depends on the health of
the pancreas. Another simple idea to eat less is to slow down the
eating process. Take the time to chew food thoroughly . It
takes a while for the signal that the stomach is filling up to
reach the brain. Eating slowly gives this feedback a chance to
happen with less food to digest. Also, chewing food thoroughly
takes advantage of the digestive power of the mouth. This can greatly lessen the amount of digestive work that
stomach acids and pancreatic enzymes must perform further
downstream. This frees these digestive enzymes to be able to work
on their other task of cancer eradication. (25) Vitamin B3 Niacin In a recent study, a new drug that
causes histamine release in the skin, supplied along with an
antibody produced by the body, led to longer skin cancer (melanoma)
survival rates. The histamine was said to enable free radicals to
attack the cancer cells. This is an example of the two edged
sword of inflammation. If the immune system is capable,
inflammation is a good thing. But most people with cancer need to improve their immune system 
before
inflammation and histamine release will be helpful. Histamine is generally 
undesirable because of its relationship with the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) 
enzyme that is integral to the growth of cancers. Vitamin B3
niacin (nicotinic acid, but not niacinamide), which can
improve blood lipid levels, causes histamine release in the skin.
I think this form of niacin could work in ideal conditions by using the 
histamine flush it generates to transport pancreatin enzymes, oxygen, and 
natural killer cells to the cancer and to sweep away the very acidic wastes that 
surround cancer cells.  A
version of niacin that retains its desirable properties including
improving blood lipid levels but without the histamine flush is inositol
hexanicotinate. It is usually labeled as no-flush niacin. Niacin is needed to transport zinc and other
minerals throughout the body and for that purpose niacinamide is also useful. Pellagra was a once a very common disease, discovered to be caused 
by niacin deficiency in 1926. The symptoms of pellagra include high sensitivity 
to sunlight, dermatitis, red skin lesions, diarrhea, dementia, and death. It is 
interesting that nicotine in tobacco is mistaken for niacin by the body, 
resulting in effective niacin deficiencies.  Pellagra can be common in 
persons who obtain most of their food energy from corn, since corn grown in 
acidic soil is a poor source of niacin. Exposure to ultraviolet radiation worsens pellagra, 
evidenced by increased symptoms in the summer. It is plausible that niacin 
deficiencies can be a aggravating factor in skin cancer development. The RDA for 
niacin is 20mg, but people routinely take several grams daily for cholesterol 
control. ( 26) Inhibit the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2)
enzyme. Blocking or inhibiting the COX-2 enzyme can
significantly disrupt the growth of cancer. For skin cancer
treatments based on pancreatin enzymes, inhibiting the COX-2
enzyme is at the very least a way to buy time while improving the
capabilities of the immune system. Over the counter medicines
that block COX-2 enzymes include antihistamines, NSAIDs such
aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil), and acid reducers such as
cimetadine (Tagamet). Many of these medicines block both the Cox-1
and Cox-2 enzymes, an undesirable attribute if ingested orally.
COX-1 enzymes aid the important function of protecting the lining
of the stomach from the acids used in digestion. The good side of
the COX-2 enzyme is that it is involved in the production of
stomach acid which ultimately aids pancreatin enzymes by helping
to digest food. Inhibiting the COX-2 enzyme could potentially
interfere with the function of pancreatin enzymes in eradicating
cancer by compromising the function of stomach acid in digestion.
I think taking cimetadine of an empty stomach a bedtime is
potentially a good choice. Because cimetadine blocks production
of stomach acid, its use at night could also be helpful to get
pancreatin enzyme supplements through the acid stomach
environment. Typical doses for Tagamet are 200-800mg.
Prescription COX-2 blockers Lodine XL and Celebrex may be
more effective still. Perhaps the best way to administer COX-2 blockers
such as ibuprofen is topically, which sidesteps any concerns
about stomach problems and delivers a potent dose directly to the
skin cancer. Topical ibuprofen stays in the tissues a long time
so there is no need for frequent applications. Unfortunately,
topical ibuprofen is not available as a product. There are a
couple of ways to make an experimental topical ibuprofen gel. One
way is to puncture an ibuprofen (Advil Liqui-Gel) gel cap and mix
its contents with a glob of aloe vera gel. Mixing aloe vera and
ibuprofen together results in a cloudy or milky substance that is
quite acidic. Adding a few drops of household ammonia until the
mixture becomes clear again neutralizes the acidity, but I am not
sure if this affects the potency. Another way to make a topical
ibuprofen gel is to grind regular ibuprofen caps and
dissolve them in a small amount of alcohol (not isopropyl)
overnight. The alcohol is then poured off and mixed with an equal
volume of aloe vera gel. Orange peel extract can be added to aid
absorption. These are general guidelines for home remedy
ibuprofen gels to try at your own risk. (27) Inositol hexaphosphate or IP6 , a nonprescription nutritional supplement, has been
used in studies to fight cancer very effectively. Derived
from soluble fiber, IP6 is possibly the ingredient that
accounts for fiber's known anticancer activity. Inositol hexaphosphate is a sugar, very much like glucose, except it has six phosphates attached to its molecules. IP-6 is very common: every animal and plant species tested had varying levels of IP-6. The highest amounts were found in rice, about 2% by weight.  IP6 nutritional 
supplements have a real advantage over food sources in terms of absorption. I P6 is a powerful weapon against cancer. IP6 mops up excessive iron, needed by cancer to produce new DNA. 
Excess iron stored in tissues promotes insulin resistance, leading to high 
levels of both glucose and insulin, neither of which is beneficial for cancer 
control. IP6 also removes excessive copper, needed to produce new blood supplies for the cancer. IP6 also removes heavy metals such as mercury, cadmium, and lead, while not removing beneficial minerals such as potassium and magnesium. It activates natural killer cells, promotes cell differentiation (turning cancer cells into more normal cells), reduces tumor sizes, and helps the tumor suppressor gene p53 that is often defective in cancers.  IP-6 is nontoxic, although it is not recommended for pregnant women and growing children. To date, IP-6 has been effective against every cancer cell tested. Typical doses of IP6 are 0.5
to 8 grams per day, taken on an empty stomach with water. IP6 interacts with vitamin C, so do not take it with fruit juices.  Other studies show that IP6
combined with inositol (vitamin B11) in a 4 (IP6):1 (inositol)
ratio may work the better than IP6 alone. This combination enables a conversion of IP6 to
IP3, believed by some to be the real inhibitor of cancer and
activator of so-called Natural Killer or NK cells. IP3 is also
known to help regulate the calcium levels within cells throughout
the body.  Inositol helps establish healthy cell membranes, which facilitate proper nerve impulses. IP6 and inositol are
available at most vitamin specialty stores for about $14 each for
a bottle of 100 500mg capsules. I think this is money especially
well spent. (28) Vitamin B6 has dramatically slowed
growth in laboratory cancer cultures by up to 85% compared to
control cultures even in the presence of estrogen. The protective
effect of vitamin B6 is increased as the dose is increased, but a
person can take too much even though B6 is water soluble. A
maximum tolerated limit of about 100-200 mg/day should not be
exceeded to avoid neurological problems. The RDA is around 2 mg/day.
People with cancer typically have very low serum levels of 
vitamin B6 compared to people without cancer. This vitamin is
inexpensive and can be found in 50 and 100 mg tablets. Vitamin B6
is more well known for reducing levels of homocysteine associated
with heart disease, along with vitamin B12 and folic acid. Long
term multivitamin (containing folic acid) use is associated with
reduced cancer risk. This chart shows vitamin intake per 
person from food has generally increased since 1909. Several of these vitamins 
have known protective effects against cancers including vitamins B3, B6, C, E, 
and folate. Vitamin D (not shown) is normally obtained from sun exposure, and 
has a very strong positive influence on the immune system. Data source 
USDA . (29) Coenzyme Q10 The body 
manufactures a substance called coenzyme Q10 that is used in the metabolism of 
every one of its cells. Like vitamin B6, cancer patients have very low levels of 
coenzyme Q10 compared to normal healthy people. Available as a relatively 
expensive nutritional supplement, large daily doses of 100 to 400 mg have 
completely eliminated terminal cancers in some instances over several months. 
One study showed that CoQ10 may increase the capacity of skin cells to produce 
vitamin D, a natural cancer inhibitor. Coenzyme Q10 is also known for its role in retarding 
cardiovascular disease and its positive influence on hypertension.  Statin drugs used to
control cholesterol diminish the body's ability to synthesize its
own coenzyme q10. If you take a statin medication, you should be
especially concerned about the need to supplement coenzyme q10. It is worth 
shopping for coenzyme Q10 as prices vary widely. Take coenzyme q10 with some fat (with flax or fish oil or a meal)
to improve absorption. If you are relying on your body to
manufacture all its own coenzyme Q10, consider supplementing
these vitamins which are its precursors: B6, C, B2, B12, folic
acid, niacin (B3), and pantothenic acid (B5). Coenzyme Q10 can be
applied at high concentrations to skin cancers by puncturing a softgel capsule and spreading the liquid. Some
coenzyme Q10 supplements are in powder form. These could be mixed
with aloe vera gel and spread topically. (30) The mineral zinc is vital to
cellular and immune system function. Zinc is a cofactor in over
100 known enzyme reactions in the body, including
carboxypeptidase A, a zinc containing pancreatic enzyme that
dissolves proteins. Zinc deficiencies are associated with certain
cancers, especially of the prostate, head, and neck. Zinc
deficiencies can arise from factors such as low dietary intakes (even
with poorly absorbed supplements), excessive alcohol consumption,
too much supplementary iron, regular use of ACE inhibitors,
stress, illness, and cereal based protein diets. The RDA for zinc
is 15mg, and supplementation above 50 mg is counterproductive to
the immune system. Excessive zinc supplementation can result in a copper 
deficiency.  Actually, this copper to zinc relationship is a good reason to 
supplement zinc (in moderation) because copper is used by cancers to build new blood vessels. There are many types of zinc supplements
available. Zinc oxide and zinc sulfate are poorly absorbed, zinc picolinate can lead to anemia, leaving zinc citrate, zinc
gluconate, and zinc monomethionine as good choices for
supplementing. I think zinc supplementation may help activate
pancreatin enzymes and make them more effective. This possibly
could reduce pancreatin enzyme dosage levels (and the associated
cost) for the same effectiveness. Take supplements with meals
because zinc taken on an empty stomach can produce nausea. (31) The trace mineral selenium is also vital to cellular and immune system function. Selenium,
like zinc, is a cofactor in many enzyme reactions in the body. Selenium also attacks cancer from two other flanks by directly causing cell death (necrosis) and turning off the immortality switch that gets stuck in the "on" position in cancer cells (apoptosis). A large study of the effect of selenium supplementation for cancer prevention in patients with skin cancer was published in 1996.  The results were that selenium supplementation did not significantly affect the incidence of basal cell or squamous cell skin cancer, but did reduce the incidence by 37% and the mortality by 50% of other cancers.  The dose in the study was 200 ug/day of selenium derived from yeast. Recent research with other types of selenium now offer hope for skin cancer effectiveness. A major problem with using higher doses of selenium has been that it can accumulate in general body proteins. This accumulation, in addition to being toxic, actually has no anticancer benefit. Impressive research performed over the past 15 years has focused on a form of selenium that is much less likely to accumulate in the tissues but still has good anticancer activity. This form of selenium is called Se-methylselenocysteine . Se-methylselenocysteine is formed naturally in various plants, including garlic, wild leeks, onions and broccoli grown on high selenium soil. Se-methylselenocysteine is available as a somewhat hard to find supplement. First introduced as a dietary supplement in 2002, Se-methylselenocysteine is sometimes referred to as SeMC or MSC. Supplementing selenium is one of the most significant ways to reduce overall cancer risk . Selenium appears to work
synergistically with vitamin E , another cancer risk factor reducer. If
supplementing vitamin E, choose 100% natural only and preferably a blend high in
d-gamma tocopherols. The RDA for selenium is 55 micrograms a day. Most studies show an optimal benefit at a dosage rate of 200-400
micrograms per day while supplementing with commonly available selenomethionine (yeast based, least desirable because it is most likely to accumulate in tissues yet has lower anticancer effects), sodium selenite, or sodium selenate. 
Watch out for symptoms of too much selenium even at about 200 micrograms a day 
such as numb 
fingertips. Because Se-methylselenocysteine is so much less toxic than other forms of selenium, it may be possible to safely supplement at much higher levels approaching 2000 micrograms per day for cancer treatment purposes. Toxicity data for Se-methylselenocysteine has not been established, and most sources recommend caution over doses exceeding 400ug per day. Exposure to toxic heavy metals such as mercury may
result in higher needs for zinc and selenium because mercury
readily substitutes itself in place of these minerals. This
results in the failure of the desired and necessary reactions.
According to the World Health Organization, the greatest human
exposure source of mercury is from silver amalgam fillings used
to repair teeth. The mercury content of silver amalgam fillings
is not trivial; they actually contain about 50% mercury. Amalagam
fillings are stable mechanically but continuously release small
amounts of mercury that is absorbed by the digestive system and
the lungs. Even tiny amounts of mercury impair immune system
function. Any disturbance (chewing, grinding teeth, hot
beverages, dental work) of these fillings will result higher
mercury exposure. Find a dentist trained in reducing your
exposure to mercury. Choose non-metallic substitutes to amalgam
fillings for future dental work. Large predator fish such as shark and tuna tend to accumulate 
mercury and should be eaten in moderation if at all. Especially avoid shark, 
swordfish, king mackerel, tilefish, tuna steaks, canned tuna (albacore has three 
times the mercury as chunk light), sea bass, Gulf Coast oysters, marlin, 
halibut, pike, walleye, white croaker, and largemouth bass. The best 
fish to eat in terms of mercury are mid-Atlantic blue crab, croaker, fish 
sticks, flounder, haddock, shrimp, wild Pacific salmon, and shrimp. (32) Melatonin is a hormone 
released by the pineal gland in the brain at night during sleep. Its level in 
the body naturally declines dramatically during waking hours each day as part of 
the circadian rhythm. Melatonin plays a crucial role in the immune system 
including stimulating natural killer cell production.  Melatonin production is adversely affected by mercury
exposure.  The pineal gland is located inches away from
teeth that may expose it to mercury through amalgam fillings.
Other detriments to its production are a lack of darkness when
sleeping, a lack of sleep, and electromagnetic fields (EMF). Melatonin supplements, often promoted as a sleep aid, are
inexpensive and widely available. I find taking 3 mg before
sleeping very beneficial in terms of feeling refreshed when I
woke up. Melatonin supplementation increases the survival time of
most advanced cancer patients. Melatonin is also a COX-2
inhibitor, an antioxidant, possibly reduces the number of
estrogen receptors on cancer cells, and inhibits the secretion of
estrogen in the body. A typical dose for a healthy individual is
300 mcg-6 mg each night. Cancer patients often take between 3-50
mg each night.  Especially interesting for skin cancer treatment, melatonin has been used 
successfully as part of a topical cocktail to kill cancer cells. (33) Consider trying to overheat the skin cancer with local
hyperthermia treatments. Hyperthermia research with internal
tumors using microwave probes have been studied for years. No
absolute standards have emerged to my knowledge, but a rule of
thumb is to heat the tumor to 43C (109.4F) for 45 minutes. For
skin cancer, potential self-treatment can be as simple as
applying a hot beverage cup or a hot water bottle to the cancer
site. Hyperthermia treatments are especially attractive if the
skin cancer is located on an extremity such as a hand. One can
also consider taking hot baths or showers. Cancer cells are less
tolerant of heat than normal cells and are said to die at around
108 degrees F (42.2 degrees C). Also, the poor internal
circulation in the tumor makes getting rid of heat difficult,
potentially making the strategy more effective. Approach this
strategy cautiously because this temperature is close to scalding
and some people are more sensitive than others. If it seems too
hot it probably is a good idea to back off as the pain threshold
is around 106 (41.1C) to 108 degrees F. Buy a digital thermometer
(an aquarium thermometer should work) and test the temperature to
avoid a scalding injury. Regardless of the thermometer reading (they
can be inaccurate), exceeding the pain threshold does not seem
wise. A third degree burn will result from exposure to 110F (43.3C)
water over ten hours, but only 5 minutes at 120 degrees F (48.9C).
Limit the heat treatments to a few minutes a day at temperatures
less than 110 F to avoid a scalding injury. If showering, pick a
time of day when water pressure is constant (no flushing toilets,
etc) to avoid temperature fluctuations. The fact that skin cancer
is directly accessible for hyperthermia or heating treatments is
a unique opportunity that does not exist for most cancers. Even
if temperatures approaching 108 F can not be tolerated this
strategy may still be useful. Heating stimulates the circulation
to aid pancreatin transportation and eliminate acid buildups at
the cancer site. (34) Nitrilosides "An apple a day keeps the doctor
away," but consider eating the seeds too. Apple and many
other types of seeds contain nitrilosides , dubbed by
proponents as vitamin B17 and the subject of considerable
controversy in alternative cancer treatments for decades.
Amygdalin is the best known nitriloside. It is the the active
ingredient of Laetrile, obtained from the seed inside the apricot
pit. Amygdalin is broken down in the body to yield dextrose and
mandelonitrile, a compound containing cyanide. Cancer cells are
said to contain more of the enzymes that make this conversion
than normal cells and also fewer of the enzymes that disarm the
cyanide. This enables cancer cells to be selectively poisoned,
the object of chemotherapy. By itself, amygdalin has never been
proven through studies to work effectively. But there are always
two sides to every story, and low doses of amygdalin obtained
from eating the large variety of foods that contain it may be
beneficial in conjunction with other strategies. Foods that
contain Amygdalin include the seeds of fruits (especially
apricots, peaches, nectarines), macadamia nuts, almonds, sprouts
of all types, berries of all types, most types of beans and peas,
whole grains, and millet (birdseed). Nitrilosides are very stable
substances and are reportedly not affected by cooking. Apples and
onions are also a good sources of a flavanoid called quercetin with anticancer properties. Quercetin is also available as a
supplement. (35) Ellagic Acid : Bring on the berries! Fresh berries are
available year round in many areas. But individual quick frozen
berries capture optimal vine ripened fruit and are a
convenient and inexpensive way to consume berries daily. Studies
have consistently shown compounds in berries to be very effective against
cancers. Studies have also shown that freezing and thawing
berries does not affect the potency of cancer fighting substances
in berries. Because cancer fighting ellagic acid and nitrilosides are concentrated in the seeds, chew the berry
until a crunch is felt, or use a juicer. Black and red
raspberries, blackberries, marionberries, loganberries, and
strawberries appear to be especially good sources of both
nitrilosides and ellagic acid. Consuming a pound (450g) of
berries a week is a goal for me. Ellagic acid can also be found in cranberries, pomegranates, walnuts, and 
pecans. Pomegranate extracts are widely available as nutritional
supplements with high ellagic acid content. For topical application, consider
combining pomegranate extract with aloe vera gel by opening the capsule and
mixing them together. Topical ellagic acid is especially promising  because of studies that show it inhibits skin cancer in
animals.  One attribute of cancer cells is that they do not die naturally
after a certain period of time (apoptosis) like normal cells. Ellagic acid 
causes apoptosis in cancer cells in the laboratory. It may also work by
preventing the binding of carcinogens to DNA and by strengthening connective
tissue which prevents cancer cells from spreading.  Other claims for ellagic acid are
it reduces heart disease, reduces birth defects, promotes
wound healing, and is an effective sunscreen. (36) Supplement Vitamin C and the amino acid L-Lysine . Vitamin C has a somewhat storied past with regard to cancer
because of its longtime vocal proponent Linus Pauling. Although
most animals make their own vitamin C, humans do not and must
obtain their vitamin C from the diet. Vitamin C is important for
proper immune system function. Research from Pauling and Matthias
Rath regarding vitamin C that occurred in the early 1990's did
not receive much recognition but was very important. Not only
does it explain the mechanisms of cardiovascular disease, it also
ties together many shared risk factors of cardiovascular health
and cancer. These researchers found that collagen, the matrix
that holds cells in place much like an egg carton holds eggs, is
formed from the building blocks of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and
the amino acids lysine and proline. Like vitamin C, lysine must
be obtained from the diet. Proline can be synthesized from
protein in the diet. When collagen suffers an injury, the body
looks for these building blocks to make the repair. If these are
unavailable, a variant of LDL cholesterol called Lp(a) is
dispatched to make a temporary repair. When deposited in the
arteries, the Lp(a) forms what is known as plaque. There are several extensions to this theory. One
says that if adequate lysine, proline, and ascorbic acid become
available, the temporary plaque repair can be replaced by a
permanent repair and the cardiovascular damage is removed.
Another says that an alternative substance that the body uses for
collagen repair is trans fatty acids (hydrogenated fat). Trans
fatty acids also fit into the same spot in the collagen matrix
but are impermeable to oxygen, so that a repair made with trans
fatty acids can deprive the adjoining cells of adequate oxygen.
Cancer cells metabolize glucose anaerobically, so they are less
affected. Healthy collagen is important because it locks
cancerous cells in place, impeding the spread of cancer.
Supplementing vitamin C and L-lysine can reportedly stop the
spread of cancer by inhibiting the enzymes produced by cancer
cells that are used to attack collagen. Typical doses are 500mg
of vitamin C and 500 mg of L-lysine several times a day. Both are
available as inexpensive dietary supplements. Another supplement to consider is chondroitin sulfate , 
often used in conjunction with glucosamine to help with arthritis. Primate 
animal studies by Morrison in the 1960's showed chondroitin sulfate kept 
arteries completely clear of plaque even when the animals were fed a high fat 
diet. The same diet rapidly clogged the arteries of the control animals not 
given chondroitin sulfate.  Chondroitin sulfate  may also have benefits for cancer 
healing. Chondroitin sulfate is sold as a dietary supplement  extracted 
from shark cartilage or other animal sources. Bovine (cow) cartilage (Catrix) preparations have been used with some success 
in studies to treat a variety of human cancers, including topical preparations 
for basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. (37) Keep a positive but realistic attitude. A positive attitude is useful to get through some of the
difficult moments, but this is really helpful only if the rest of
the cancer fighting plan is viable and working. Cancer does not
respond to wishful thinking alone. Because healing is gradual,
take photographs or video clips to objectively substantiate
healing progress. One can even consider using a copy machine or
scanner to do this on the cheap and easy. New cell phones often come with a 
convenient camera that can be used for this purpose. Measure the size of
lesions with a ruler and record to compare with future
measurements. I have found a tendency for lesions to "flare"
for a few days before healing as the cancer immune system engages
them. This requires a bit of patience and faith in the theory to get through. It
may be difficult at the time to regard the flaring as a positive
sign. But if healing progress is not being made, consider a
different plan or choose standard treatments. (38) Make an appointment to see a dermatologist. Their queue times for appointments are often 4-8 weeks. That
should be enough time to assess whether these strategies are at
least beginning to work. If not, this step provides the luxury of
a safety net. This appointment can always be postponed or
cancelled if progress is being made. This step is listed near the
end but is one of the first that should be taken. I think that
most if not all of these strategy ideas fall in the category of
"it can not hurt to try", but if in doubt ask your
doctor. A dermatologist's medical advice should be strongly
weighed, but one can decline treatment or ask for a second
opinion. Surgery may be the best option given individual
circumstances. If the possibility of melanoma is a concern, be
sure to insist on an immediate appointment. Although these
strategies should be applicable to any skin cancer, I would not
bet my life on it. People with skin cancer should know that surgical
removal of a primary tumor affects the growth rate of any
metastatic lesions (if they exist). This is believed to caused by
statin chemicals produced by the primary tumor that limit the
ability of the distant tumors to produce new blood supplies. Once
the primary tumor is gone, the other ones can more readily grow.
This is probably less of a concern for basal cell carcinomas than
for squamous cell carcinomas. Ask your doctor about Aldara , a topical
medicine for treatment of genital warts that was recently
approved by the FDA for skin cancers. Aldara is said to work by
stimulating local production of interferon and interleukins,
enabling the body to use its own immune system to destroy the
cancer. Side effects of Aldara include fatigue, aches, and a low
grade fever as the immune system becomes engaged. Aldara is
probably appropriate only for small skin cancer lesions, in part
because it is expensive. (39) Ask God for healing. He cares about us
and knows exactly how to restore us to health. Despite who we are
or what we might have done in the past, God wants to establish
close relationships with each of us. He has provided a bridge named Jesus for us
to use to reach Him. We need to find and cross this bridge in our
lifetime or the opportunity for an eternal relationship with God
will be gone forever. This personal relationship with the God of
the Bible is the reason we were created and is the only way we
can be truly satisfied in life. Seek God on His terms and He
promises you will find Him. He is definitely worth finding. I hope this information helps you. These are my
thoughts based on my experiences. I doubt these strategies are
the last word, but they worked for me. Do not consider these
ideas as medical advice for your unique situation. Maybe this
will at least give you new directions to explore and something to
build on. May God bless and heal you! . See the
first 17 strategies for squamous and basal cell carcinoma Visit the Skin Cancer Forums Topicalinfo- The
big picture A review of established
cancer risk factors Fundamentals of natural
cancer treatments Squamous and basal cell
carcinoma treatment strategies 1-17 One Answer to Cancer Protein Pancreatin Alcohol Cosmetics Exercise Meat and dairy CLA Sugar Foods and nutrients Fats Alkalize Calcium Stomach acidity Drinking water Curcumin Basal and squamous cell
strategies 18-39 (You are here) Polyphenols Topical pancreatin Problems with sunscreens Aloe vera Phytosterols Cell damage Lose body fat Niacin Inhibit the Cox-2 enzyme IP6 Vitamin B6 Coenzyme Q10 Zinc Selenium Melatonin Hyperthermia treatment Nitrilosides Ellagic acid Vitamin C and lysine See a dermatologist Ask God for healing Natural healing: What to
expect So what is the catch? Statement of
caution and disclaimer Contact page My story using the original topical
treatments The most recent topical home
remedy formulation How healthy is your cancer
immune system? Take the acid test! Selected resources This information is intended to heighten awareness
of potential health care alternatives and should not be
considered as medical advice. See your qualified health-care
professional for medical attention, advice, diagnosis, and
tr