
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 02:38:26 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 02:38:26 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Acupuncture for Seniors - Families of Loved Ones Home Issue Seven Issue Three Acupuncture for Seniors Home Contact Us Search Issue Thirteen Issue Twelve Issue Eleven Issue Ten Issue Nine Issue Eight Issue Seven Issue Six Issue Five Issue Four Issue Three Issue Two Issue One - - - - - - - Advertisers Resources Newsletter Respite Awareness Other Menu Home Acupuncture for Seniors Written by Administrator Feb 05, 2006 at 11:25 AM Acupuncture
is one of the oldest, most commonly used medical procedures in the world.
Originating in China more
than 2,000 years ago, acupuncture began to become better known in the United States in 1971, when New York Times
reporter James Reston wrote about how doctors in China used acupuncture needles to
ease his pain after surgery. Acupuncture is one
of the key components of traditional Chinese
medicine (TCM). In the TCM system of medicine, the body is seen as a
delicate balance of two opposing and inseparable forces: yin and yang. Yin
represents the cold, slow, or passive principle, while yang represents the hot,
excited, or active principle. Among the major assumptions in TCM are that
health is achieved by maintaining the body in a "balanced state" and
that disease is due to an internal imbalance of yin and yang. This imbalance
leads to blockage in the flow of qi (vital energy) along pathways known as
meridians. Acupuncture is used to balance yin and yang, keep the normal flow of
qi unblocked, and maintain or restore health to the body and mind. In
the past two decades, acupuncture has grown in popularity in the United States.
The report from a Consensus Development Conference on Acupuncture held at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 1997
stated that acupuncture is being "widely" practiced for relief or
prevention of pain and for various other health conditions. The largest and
most comprehensive survey of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), the
2002 National Health Interview Survey, reported that an estimated 8.2 million U.S. adults had used acupuncture at one time. The
survey also stated that approximately 2.1 million U.S. adults had used acupuncture in
the previous year. According
to the NIH Consensus Statement on Acupuncture, there have been many studies on
acupuncture's potential usefulness, but results have been mixed because of
complexities with study design and size. However, promising outcomes have
emerged attesting to the efficacy of acupuncture, such as for adult
postoperative and chemotherapy nausea and vomiting, and also in postoperative
dental pain. There are other situations (such as addiction, stroke
rehabilitation, headache, menstrual cramps, tennis elbow, fibromyalgia, myofascial
pain, osteoarthritis, low-back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, and asthma) in
which acupuncture may be useful as an adjunct treatment or an acceptable
alternative that can be included in a comprehensive management program. An
NIH-funded study recently showed that acupuncture provides pain relief,
improves function for people with osteoarthritis of the knee, and serves as an
effective complement to standard care. Further research is likely to uncover
additional areas where acupuncture interventions will be useful. Acupuncture needles are metallic, hair-thin,
sterilized, and single-use. People experience acupuncture sensations
differently, but most feel no or minimal pain as the needles are inserted. The
treatment itself will last between 30 minutes and one hour. During that time
you will most likely be resting on the treatment table. In some cases you will
be asked to sit on a chair to make the acupuncture points more accessible. A
number of acupuncture needles may be inserted. Generally no more than 5 or 6 locations
are chosen for the treatment. Many
people find acupuncture therapy to be very relaxing, and it is not uncommon for
patients to fall asleep on the treatment table after the needles are in place. In the hands of a medically trained
practitioner, acupuncture is a fairly safe and forgiving discipline. It would
be difficult to introduce new and lasting problems with acupuncture treatment,
even if the treatment is not designed as skillfully as an experienced provider
would desire. =(Note:
sentence may be difficult for reader to understand.) For seniors who are taking more than one
medication, acupuncture has not shown any harmful interactions with drugs. In
addition, acupuncture treatment can be combined with other modalities such as
physical therapy, massage or chiropractic. Before the first visit, check a practitioner's
credentials. You can directly ask the practitioner you choose, or this
information can be found from your state acupuncture licensing board through
Web search engines. About 40 states have established training standards for
acupuncture certification, but states have varied requirements for obtaining a
license to practice acupuncture. Generally, most states require 3 years of TCM
study after college to become a licensed acupuncturist. During the first visit, a practitioner should
inform you about the estimated number of treatments needed and how much each
will cost. If this information is not provided, ask for it. Treatment may take
place over a few days or for several weeks or more. Acupuncture
is not covered under Medicare or Medicaid. 
However, acupuncture is one of the CAM therapies that are more commonly covered by insurance. You should check with
your insurer before you start treatment to see whether acupuncture will be
covered for your condition and, if so, to what extent. Some insurance plans
require preauthorization. Lots of patients ask, “Can acupuncture help
my condition?” I generally tell patients that if their normal course of
treatment isn’t resolving the problem, is quite expensive, or has significant
side effects/hassles associated with it, then give acupuncture a try. As an
example, it is ridiculous to treat someone’s dizziness with acupuncture if the
cause of the dizziness is simply from excessive wax in the ear canals. On the
other hand, if one is having difficulty controlling or improving one’s asthma
with Western treatments, a trial of acupuncture treatments makes utmost sense. Suggested Web sites and readings: · www.acupuncture.com ·       
www.acupuncturetoday.com · www.nccaom.org ·       
The web that has no weaver: understanding Chinese
medicine by Ted J. Kaptchuk. ·       
Between heaven and earth: a guide to Chinese medicine
by Harriet Beinfield and Efrem Korngold. David Kim, PhD is a licensed
acupuncturist and an assistant professor at the University
of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey-New
 Jersey Medical
 School. He is teaching
physiology and conducting research in acupuncture and oriental medicine. He has
published more than 30 research papers in first class journals such
as________________ and _____________ User Comments Please login or register to add comment