
Acupuncture Training Course for sports therapists. current courses tui na courses acupuncture courses accreditation for beginners for shiatsu practitioners for medical practitioners for sports therapists syllabus moxa & electro testimonials dates, fees & bookings acupuncture styles micro systems thai massage courses indonesian courses short courses (cpd) anatomy & physiology trip to china Acupuncture  Training Course for Sports Therapists. The Bodyharmonics Acupuncture training course is essential for 
        sports therapists. If you have a sports therapy degree or LSSM, you can go to Module 
          3 If you have sports massage Level 4, you must first do Module 1 before 
          proceeding to Module 3 If you have sports massage Level 3, you must first do Module 1 and 
          Module 2 before proceeding to Module 3. Dates and fees for next acupuncture 
        course Book your course place here Maria Mercati is the best selling author of 166,000 copies in many languages Acupuncture Module 1 - Tui Na Foundation Diploma 14 days - Basic TCM theory is taught through the medium of Tui Na 
        which is used in the practical context from the start. Our Tui Na 
        course is very thorough and comprehensive giving enough TCM to apply 
        an effective Tui Na in a therapeutic context (you learn both the 
        location and function of 100 acupoints). This gives confidence in 
        touching and treating people before inserting needles. Acupuncture Module 2 - Tui Na Master Practitioner Diploma (Compulsory for sports massage Level 3) 20 days - you learn 
        over 100 new techniques for treatment, tongue & pulse diagnosis 
        as well as the syndromes. Module 1 & 2 provide a strong foundation 
      of TCM needed for the Acupuncture Acupuncture Module 3 - Acupuncture Diploma 22 days - If you are prepared to study more intensively you can 
        do Modules 2 & 3 simultaneously. Bodyharmonics is liaising with the Department of Health regarding standards. There are present no statutory regulations. All aspects of TCM are taught during Modules 1,2 and 3. It is progressive. Our acupuncture training course is founded on the application of theory to the practical situation which is always supervised. Students do lots of private study to achieve the standards required for safe and effective practice. Acupuncture is a practical skill which needs lots of practical
        experience Our acupuncture training course gives each student the opportunity 
        to practice needling specific acu-points, accurately and deeply. Students also get to experience 
        first hand the unique different effects and
        sensations. Ultimately, the ability to use Tui Na with acupuncture greatly 
        enhances the effectiveness of treatment for all conditions. Tui 
        Na provides the ideal practical base on which to build Acupuncture. 
        Students who possess Tui Na qualifications will have: a working understanding of TCM an ability to diagnose the body in health and disease an ability to use meridians and acupoints in a clinical context. The combination of Acupuncture with Tui Na creates some of the 
        most powerful medicine available in the world today. Our carefully controlled acupuncture point combinations 
        are practised both in class and used for your out-of-class case 
        studies. They help you build up mega confidence in treating musculo-skeletal conditions as well as internal problems. Most   other schools do not give you this hands-on training and tend to teach basic TCM theory as an academic exercise. 
        Practical clinical acupuncture only comes in much later in the course. 
        However long the course, understanding the complexities of TCM takes 
        a lifetime of study. This acupuncture training course is recognised 
        by the Institute for Complimentary Medicine and the British Register 
        of Complementary Practitioners. Dates and fees for next acupuncture 
        course Book your course place here Acupuncture 
            enables you to treat conditions that Tui Na alone would treat more 
      slowly: all musculo-skeletal conditions & sports injuries Repetitive strain injuries to muscles, tendons and joints Osteo and rheumatoid arthritis Spondylitis, tendinitis, bursitis Knee conditions Frozen shoulder Epicondylitis Back pain, sciatica acute and chronic internal conditions Insomnia Headaches, migraines Allergic rhinitus, hayfever Earache, tinnitus Asthma, coughs, eczema Diarrhoea, constipation, IBS, hypertension Gynaecological disorders, PMT, menopause Depression, anxiety, broken heart ME, MS, to powerfully boost the body's immune response Cupping can be used on its own or after acupuncture 
          to effectively treat several conditions. basket checkout BLOG: Missing the point on acupuncture regulation in the UK? Maria speaks out Busy Mums! New deal on Tuina massage DVDs you can use at home for DRUG FREE health of your kids Web Management By Bodyharmonics © 2010 | homepage 