Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Efficacy of Acupuncture for Migraines Enter your search terms Submit search form Web thehealthcarecenter.com Quick Links Send To A Friend Bookmark This Page The Efficacy of Acupuncture for Migraines Acupuncture is an ancient form of treatment for chronic conditions developed by Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) which is becoming increasingly accepted by the West. Treatment is done by the placement of fine needles in carefully selected points in the body intended to restore the balance of yin and yang and realign the flow of chi or vital energy along the body's paths. Migraines are particularly severe headaches. They are experienced by tens of millions of people, last from a few minutes to days and can be triggered by allergens, diet, stress, changes in the weather and other causes. The severity of the pain and other symptoms such as vision impairment can make the sufferer unable to function. They are one of the leading causes for missing work, causing the loss of tens of billions of dollars a year due to absenteeism and medical expenses. Acupuncture has been found to be especially useful in the control and prevention of pain. Preventing Migraines Over the years, several studies have been conducted on using acupuncture for migraines. When people with a history of migraines were divided into a group given regular treatments of acupuncture aimed at head pain and a group treated with migraine medication, it was found that acupuncture treatments resulted in fewer missed work days with no side effects. The study's bottom line was that acupuncture for migraines is more cost-effective as well. In one study, points were assigned to the frequency, duration and severity of migraine pain and other symptoms. This was done to quantify the effect on each patient's quality of life. Several types of medicine were used on subgroups of the patients not using acupuncture. It was found that acupuncture for migraines was significantly more effective than any of the medicines for reducing migraine symptoms. For the first six months of the study, patients receiving acupuncture for migraines showed a drop of more than 78,000 points. Patients in the other group showed a drop of fewer than 4.500 points. The ratio continued throughout an entire year of the study. On an individual basis, the average patient receiving acupuncture for migraines experienced a drop of 80 per cent of quantifiable values while the average for an individual patient receiving medicine showed a drop of just below 46 per cent. Best of all, no side effects were reported by any of the patients receiving acupuncture for migraines. Side effects for those on medicine included nausea, diarrhea and burning sensations. Some medications also caused stuffiness in the chest and vomiting. The difference in days lost from work and cost between acupuncture treatments and medical prescriptions was also strikingly in favor of acupuncture for migraines. While Western doctors were amazed at the outcome, acupuncture practitioners are slightly disappointed that the study was made concerning pain management when they believe that acupuncture can do much more. More Acupuncture Articles Acupuncture and Acupressure: Needles vs. Fingers Are Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Safe? Studying Acupuncture and Depression The Issue of Acupuncture and Fertility Acupuncture helps Infertility by Improving Ovarian Function Acupuncture and IVF: Figures Prove the Positive Effect Acupuncture Charts Describe the 14 Meridians and More Acupuncture Clinics in Almost Every US City Where Can I Enroll for an Acupuncture Course? How to Choose the Best Acupuncture Doctor Try Acupuncture for Allergies and Feel the Difference How Acupuncture for Arthritis Can Help You Acupuncture for Depression and Anxiety: A Natural Remedy The Practice of Acupuncture for Face Lifts Overcoming Fibromyalgia: Use Acupuncture for Optimal Results Use Acupuncture for High Blood Pressure and get Instant Relief How Does Acupuncture for Insomnia Work? The Efficacy of Acupuncture for Migraines Acupuncture for Weight Loss Can Provide a Long Term Solution Acupuncture Needles are Necessary to Unblock Energy within the Body The Acupuncture Point Chart Shows Points for Different Parts of the Anatomy Acupuncture Points Are Usually but Not Always Found On the Meridian Acupuncture Schools Abound in the US An Acupuncture Specialist Needs Years of Study and Treatment Experience The Nature of Acupuncture Therapy A Brief Guide to How Acupuncture Can Help You Stop Smoking Before Certifications: Acupuncture Training in America Acupuncture Treatment is used to Provide Relief from Pain Acupuncture Treatment for Infertility: Does it really Work? Ancient Acupunture Techniques for Back Pain Understanding Auricular Acupuncture The History of Chinese Acupuncture How to Combat Aging with Cosmetic Acupuncture Ear Acupuncture Can Relieve Pain Elsewhere in the Body Electro Acupuncture Provides Added Stimulation through Electrical Currents How Can Facial Acupuncture Help You Applications of Laser Acupuncture in Treatment A Look at the Uniqueness of Medical Acupuncture Diseases And Conditions Diabetes Eczema Irritable Bowel Syndrome Migraine Headaches Trauma ...More Diseases And Conditions Diet And Exercise Aerobics Atkins Diet Cholesterol Mangosteen Treadmills ...More Diet And Exercise Women's Health Infertility Laser Hair Removal Maternity Menopause Microdermabrasion ...More Women's Health Men's Health Impotence Prostate Vasectomy Hair Loss ...More Men's Health Child Health Toddlers Acne Child Care Baby Care ...More Child Health Senior Health Retirement Senior Housing Wheelchairs Health Insurance Stair Lifts ...More Senior Health Mental Health Anxiety Attention Deficit Disorder Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Quit Smoking Rehabilitation ...More Mental Health Alternative Health Acupuncture Laser Eye Surgery Natural Remedies Aromatherapy Herbs Hypnosis Essential Oils Homeopathy Colon Cleansing Tummy Tuck ...More Alternative Health contact | privacy policy | legal notices & disclaimers | site map Copyright © 2007-2012 The He