
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 01:33:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sun, 06 May 2012 01:33:58 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Connection: close

vascular dementia | Hotchkiss Brain Institute University of Calgary Jump to Headline Jump to Navigation Jump to Content Jump to Footer RSS Facebook Twitter Home Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Community Faculty & Staff Search UofC: IT My U of C Contacts Site Navigation Home About HBI Education Research Our Members Community Events Funding vascular dementia Dr. Colleen Jean Maxwell Submitted by support on Wed, 10/14/2009 - 10:45. Faculty Neural Systems and Behaviour Other aging alzehimer's pharmacoepidemiology resident assessment intruments vascular dementia Address: Primary Appointment: University of Waterloo - click here PubMed: Click here Membership Type: Associate Academic Rank: Adjunct Professor Degrees (institutions): PhD, MA, BSc (Honors) Research Interests: Dr. Maxwell’s primary research interests are in the areas of Pharmacoepidemiology and Aging with a particular focus on Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia, depression and health services and outcomes research. She is also involved in national and international research examining the health and quality of care needs of older residents within Assisted Living and Long Term Care settings. She holds a cross-appointment in the School of Public Health and Health Systems at the University of Waterloo and is an Adjunct Scientist with the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES) in Toronto. Her most recent appointment was as a Professor in the Departments of Community Health Sciences and Medicine, University of Calgary where she continues to hold an Adjunct position. She received her MA in Gerontology and PhD in Health Studies from the Faculty of Applied Health Sciences, University of Waterloo. Her post-doctoral training included a fellowship with the Clinical Epidemiology Unit (Élisabeth-Bruyère Health Centre & University of Ottawa) and a clinical research position with the Drugs Directorate of Health Canada. She has held salary awards from the Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research (AHFMR) and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) and her research has received financial support from CIHR, AHFMR, and the Brenda Strafford Chair in Geriatric Medicine. She is a Past President of the Canadian Association for Population Therapeutics and a current board member of the International Society for Pharmacoepidemiology. Excellence in Neurological and Mental Health Research and Education Search Social Media Quick Links HBI Seminars For the Community News Archives Faculty of Medicine Job Opportunities University of Calgary 2500 University Dr. NW Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 1N4 Copyright © 2010 About the University At a Glance Identity & Standards Campus Maps iS² Project Careers at the University Events at the University Academics Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing Studies Libraries at the University Campus Life Go Dinos! Residence, Hotel & Conference Hotel Alma Active Living Bookstore Students' Union Media & Publications News Med