Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The cure for cancer: theory, history and treatment. Home About
              Us Faqs Order Contact Links Enema
              Equip Testimonials The
cure for cancer: theory, history and treatment. Townsend
Letter for Doctors and Patients; 6/1/2004; Fonorow, Owen R. Overview The
theory that malignant cancers are false-placentas was first formulated by the
Scottish embryologist John Beard in 1902. Beard found that substances secreted
by the pancreas would inhibit the growth of cancers before they develop but are
missing in the blood of cancer patients. These substances are the digestive
enzymes trypsin (and the trypsin precursor chymotrypsin). Replacing these
enzymes reportedly "cures" 100% of fast-growing cancers. Theory John
Beard was not a physician but a brilliant biologist whose main research interest
was the placenta. Beard made several crucial observations that led to his theory
of cancer. Using his microscope he observed that the trophoblast cells that
become the placenta looked like cancer cells. Beard then made the following
extraordinary observation: The placenta stops growing on day 56 of the human
pregnancy--on the same day the fetus' pancreas begins to function. He came to
the conclusion that the fetus' pancreas secreted something that stopped the
growth of the placenta and surmised that the same substance might stop the
growth of malignant cancer. Beard
conducted experiments with the juices extracted from young animal pancreases to
test his hypothesis. These juices were injected into cancer tumors and the
tumors shrank in both animals and humans. Beard's work was published in JAMA and
he wrote a book on the enzyme therapy for cancer. Physicians tried (100 years
ago) to duplicate Beard's experimental results, but failed, and the work was
(almost) forgotten. We
now know that "delicate" enzymes can lose their effectiveness if not
carefully extracted from young live stock. Even today, we are not able to
synthesize either trypsin or chymotrypsin, leading to the high cost of
supplements with these enzymes. History We
all begin our lives as a single cell. As the zygote divides into trillions of
progeny; not all cells become muscle, bone, teeth, connective or other tissue.
Some cells become the placenta, a trophoblastic layer of tissue that attaches to
the uterine wall during pregnancy. These cells are discarded with the placenta
after birth. Beard,
the first to observe that placenta cells resemble cancer cells, also saw how
malignant cancers act in the same way that placenta cells act in the mother's
womb; they attach to the uterus and "eat" through it to obtain a blood
supply. Beard
also found other out-of-place trophoblast cells in great numbers throughout the
body. These cells are placenta-like, do not differentiate into specific tissue,
but lie dormant. Beard called these cells "germ" cells. They have
properties similar to stem cells, and Beard believed that these cells are the
seeds of cancer. Beard
theorized that as we age, the germ cells are likely to receive a signal that
causes them to begin growing. The conditions that induce growth might include a
hormonal message that the germ cells interpret as a pregnancy. The
estrogen-based hormonal signal that mimics pregnancy may be induced by physical
trauma, or for other unknown reasons. As this "false-placenta" begins
growing, unchecked, it becomes the malignant mass which the medical community
calls cancer. Pancreas
to the Rescue The
pancreas produces the protein dissolving enzymes trypsin (and its precursor
chymotrypsin) that Beard believed prevents germ cells from becoming malignant.
The pancreas secretes digestive enzymes into the small intestine, there they
help digest "cooked" or denatured proteins. Some of these enzymes
enter the bloodstream. In theory, when the pancreas is healthy, early-stage
cancers (false pregnancies) are destroyed (digested) by pancreatic enzymes in
the blood. Beard
believed that when the health of the pancreas becomes impaired, should the
output of pancreatic enzymes decline, any malignant cancer cells that begin
dividing will grow out of control. In
Beard's time it was believed that enzymes taken orally would not enter the
bloodstream. Even today there is controversy whether or not the large enzyme
molecules can be absorbed, and whether the enzyme molecule remains intact in the
stomach. Dr. Kelley's success rates tells us that the enzymes can be taken by
mouth, but that very large amounts are required to make them effective against
growing cancers. An
important discovery is that trypsin's digestive enzyme action is activated by
the high pH (alkaline) environment in the small intestine. This finding may help
explain the effectiveness of the increasingly popular high-pH cesium treatment
for cancer. Max
Wolf In
the 1940s, researchers discovered that there was "something" in the
blood of people without cancer that was completely missing in the blood of
people who had cancer. This clue prompted Dr. Max Wolf to read Beard's book The
Enzyme Therapy for Cancer and Its Scientific Basis. Dr.
Wolf along with his associate Helen Benitez and Dr. Karl Ransberger, a young
biomedical researcher from Germany, tested a large number of enzymes from animal
and plant sources. Wolf created an enzyme formula containing both trypsin and
chymotrypsin. Today, the Wolf/Benitez WoBenzyme[R] systemic enzyme formula is
reportedly the second hottest selling OTC product in Europe--behind ordinary
aspirin. William
Kelley In
1963, a dentist (William D. Kelley) was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer (almost
always quickly fatal) and he rediscovered the connection between pancreatic
enzymes and cancer remission. He cured his own cancer--and subsequently hundreds
more, but was vilified by the medical establishment and became embittered. In
the 1980s, a young medical student--Nick Gonzalez--was sent by the
Sloan-Kettering cancer center to "debunk" Kelley's claim of a 100%
pancreatic-cancer cure rate. However, after revisiting Kelley's patient records,
Gonzalez became a believer. Dr. Gonzalez recently won a $6 million grant from
the National Institutes of Health to continue the study of enzyme therapy for
pancreatic cancer. An
excellent overview of the history of enzyme therapy may be read at: http://www.herbtime.com/Information
Pages/CancerEnzymeTherapy.htm Recent
Support The
"laetrile" clinics in Mexico claim that they have a "100%"
cure rate for cancer. They do post a disclaimer: The 100% cure rate applies only
if the patient has not undergone chemotherapy or radiation--and only in those
patients that take the pancreatic enzymes. If
cancers are really false placentas, malignant tumors would mimic pregnancy in
other ways. All trophoblast cells produce a unique hormone called the chorionic
gonadotrophic (CGH) which is easily detected in urine. Thus if a person is
either pregnant or has cancer, a simple CGH pregnancy test should confirm either
or both. It does, with high accuracy. Recent research has shown that all cancers
tested (80% of all known cancers) emit portions of this "pregnancy"
hormone. See: http://www.ralphmoss.com/html/cach377.shtml The
University of Michigan Cancer Center has recently proclaimed that current
chemotherapy targets the "wrong" cells. The Ann Arbor researchers
discovered that not all cells in a tumor are equally malignant. Only a tiny
minority of tumor cells are actually capable of inducing new cancers; the rest
are relatively harmless. "These tumor-inducing cells have many of the
properties of stem cells," said Michael F. Clarke, MD, a professor of
internal medicine, who directed the study. "They make copies of
themselves--a process called self-renewal--and produce all the other kinds of
cells in the original tumor." It
is clear then that the nation's top cancer center has unknowingly rediscovered
Beard's thesis. See
the two-part series by Ralph Moss: Part 1--http://www.cancerdecisions.com/042603.html
Part 2--http://www.cancerdecisions.com/050403.html Kelley
Enzymes Dr.
William Kelley recommends high amounts of pancreatic enzymes--45,000 mg orally.
His formula includes a starch-dissolving enzyme which Kelley states is important
in some cases. The enzyme formula Kelley stands behind cost roughly $2000 per
month. Unfortunately,
the larger the cancer mass--which quickly dissolves from oral enzyme
therapy--the harder it is for the liver/kidney to rid the body of the residue of
it. As a result, many patients taking enzymes die from toxemia as the cancer
tumor is digested. Various methods for detoxifying the liver are known, with the
" coffee enema " being preferred. Toxemia is the primary reason to have
the malignant tumor mass surgically removed. Treatments If
the Beard theory is correct, malignant cancer only begins after the pancreas
fails to secrete sufficient trypsin and chymotrypsin to prevent it from growing.
A therapy that improves or restores the health of the pancreas, so that it can
again secrete these enzymes, would result in cancer remissions. For
example, if the heavy metal mercury building up in the pancreas was the root
cause of the enzyme secretion problem, large amounts of vitamin C might cure a
cancer (cause remission) by ridding the pancreas of mercury. If a CoQ10
deficiency was the reason the pancreas was malfunctioning, then supplmenting
CoQ10 may restart the production of trypsin, etc. Beard's theory explains why
high-dose vitamin C or CoQ10 works in some people, and not in others. Cesium
Protocol There
are theoretical reasons and experimental findings that indicate fast-growing
cancers can be completely resolved by using a 6g cesium chloride salt for
30-days. The following 20-year-old paper describes the High pH Therapy for
Cancer treatment: http://www.mwt.net/~drbrewer/highpH.htm Brewer
mentions the resemblance between embryonic cells and cancer cells. Another
connection between the high pH therapy and the enzyme therapy is the striking
coincidence that Brewer's therapy works by raising the pH of the cancer cell to
8.0 (highly alkaline). This is the same pH in the small intestine, and it is the
pH required to activate trypsin's digestive enzyme activity! (The author has
noted that stomach, colon and rectal cancer are all common--small intestine
cancer is rare.) Cesium
is far less expensive than high-quality pancreatic enzymes. While it is unknown
whether or not the cesium protocol works in the complete absence of trypsin in
the blood, it is logical to assume that less pancreatic enzymes would be
required in conjunction with cesium treatment for cancer. (Perhaps 4,500 mg of
pancreatic enzymes with trypsin would suffice along with 6,000 mg cesium
chloride daily, rather than the 45,000 mg of pancreatic enzymes daily that
Kelley and Gonzalez recommend orally to destroy tumors.) Experimental
science will one day provide the answer. Rath
Vitamin C Protocol There
is a sensible high-vitamin-C protocol that has been found to arrest cancer
growths. Not that it cures/digests the cancers, but according to former Linus
Pauling associate Matthias Rath, MD, this protocol restricts or halts the growth
of malignant tumors by deactivating an enzyme. The Rath protocol may be safer
than the Beard/Wolf/Kelley enzyme therapy--it may allow the body to more slowly
digest the tumors, or the tumor may calcify. The
Rath therapy is thought to interfere with the enzyme that cancer tumors emit,
malignin, which allows the tumor to "eat" through ordinary tissue.
Malignin is the mirror image (sterioisomer) of trypsin. The
daily protocol from Dr. Matthias Rath is reportedly: 14,000
mg Vitamin C 12,000
mg Lysine 2,000
mg Proline 1,000
mg Green Tea Extract (EGCG) No
doubt, this vitamin-C protocol improves the health of the pancreas. Coenzyme
Q10 There
are sound theoretical reasons to add 400 mg of highly absorbable Coenzyme 10
(CoQ10) to any anticancer protocol. This dosage has initiated complete tumor
regression in breast cancer patients--during clinical studies! Since the
pancreas has a high concentration of CoQ10, it may be that restoring CoQ10
levels improves pancreatic function. It is much more economical to repair the
health of your pancreas, if possible, than it is to buy 45,000 mg of daily
enzymes for life. The
Basic Recommendations for Controlling Cancer Many
enzyme authorities recommend against most orthodox Chemo/Radiation therapy in
favor of the following protocols: 1.
Have surgery to remove as much of the tumor mass as possible. 2.
Follow the Rath-Vitamin C/Lysine/EGCG protocol with 400 mg CoQ10. 3.
Purchase pancreatic enzymes (e.g. the Kelley or Wobenzyme oncologic formula).
The formula must contain trypsin and chymotrypsin. Start with 400 mg daily, and
slowly increase until effective. 4.
Follow the Brewer Cesium protocol (including laetrile--apricot seeds), for 30
days. Brewer
Cesium Protocol *
6 g cesium chloride (2000 mg a.m., 2000 mg noon, and 2000 mg evening) *
100,000 IU Vitamin A *
Up to 30,000 mg Vitamin C *
Selenium--200 to 400 (mcg) MICRO grams *
Zinc--50 mg *
Laetrile (apricot seed extract)--150-200 mg 5.
Add a good mineral/multivitamin--to cover all possible nutritional needs. 6.
Supplement vitamin D (800 IU) and vitamin K (1 mg) (both have shown anti-cancer
properties in several studies) 7.
Avoid refined carbohydrates, especially sugars which feed cancer. 8.
Avoid supplemental calcium (!) (Calcium speeds the growth of embryos, and
perhaps cancer). Take supplemental magnesium/potassium 9.
Eat proteins every other day--to rest the pancreas. The
following link to the Cancer Cure Booklet provides the scientific rationale for
the William Kelley enzyme therapy: http://www.road-to-health.com/am/publish/article_56.shtml Other
orthomolecular substances are known to have anti-cancer activity. Some of these
include ginger, lysine/proline, lycopene, and r-alpha lipoic acid. If these
substances are effective, they may either help restore pancreatic function, or
help inhibit the growth and spread of the false-placenta. Sources: BolenReport.com PaulingTherapy.com Hearttechnology.com VitaminCfoundation.org Owen's
Articles by
Owen R. Fonorow [c] 2004 Correspondence: Owen
Fonorow Vitamin
C Foundation P.O.
Box 3097 Lisle,
Illinois 60532 USA 630-416-1438 www.VitaminCFoundation.org COPYRIGHT
2004 The Townsend Letter Group GENERAL DISCLAIMER s.a. Wilson's  is designed for educational
purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional
services.  The information provided through s.a. Wilson's should not be
used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or a disease.  It is not a
substitute for professional care.  If you have or suspect you may have a
health problem, you should consult your health care provider. Please see our full legal
disclaimer Home ~ FAQs ~ Order ~ Links ~ Enema Equip Testimonials ~ Contact Us ~ Library Copyrighted
by s.a. Wilson, All right