<Prev Next> Home > Sports Currency: USD (US Dollar) AUD (Australian Dollar) GBP (British Pound) CAD (Canadian Dollar) EUR (Euro Currency) HKD (Hong Kong Dollar) JPY (Japanese Yen) NZD (New Zealand Dollar) ZAR (South African Rand) Sports The level of activity and physical exertion differs greatly depending on which sports people are playing. Sports activity can result in a number of different problems. For example any sports that involve rapid movement (e.g. running) will cause sweating. Excessive sweating can then result in sweat rash and chafing. This occurs when surfaces of the skin become moist and rub against each other or clothing. This problem can be solved by using Neat 3B Action Cream. Also a number of people participating in sports have issues with foot, leg, hip or back pain. Pain is caused through pressure, injury, repetitive motions and actions such as the feet striking the ground. The impact of the feet on the ground grows dramatically from walking to running. There can also be issues around spraining of the ankles and feet. So the use of suitable Neat Feat Orthotic and Insole products help to prevent pain and will also aid in relieving pain. Neat Feat have developed a Sports Insole which is designed to help cushion the foot and provide structural support in key impact areas such as the Heel, Arch and Metatarsal area. The Full Length Insole and Heel Cup also help to reduce the impact on the feet. Products like the Walk Straight, Arch Cushion and Maximum Foot Support help to keep the foot in alignment thereby preventing pain and injury. The Heel Lift product is also useful for those who have suffered from an Achilles injury. Another issue for sports people is excessive sweating of the feet resulting in unpleasant odors in the shoes and on the feet. This can be solved with one of the many options Neat Feat has to help prevent and cure foot odor. These products include - Shoe Spray, Shoe Powder, Cool Foot Spray and Neat Feat Roll On Deodorant. Neat Zori Neat Zori are Sport Orthotic Slip-Ons with Arch, Heel & Metatarsal Support. This Ergonomically Designed, Stabilising In-Sole provides Superior Foot Support. ... Read More Quantity: Sport High Impact Stabilizer Insole Specially designed to improve foot posture and relieve stress on your
ankles, knees, hip and lower back. Excellent for all sports activites -
running, walking, hiking, standing and high impact sports.
									... Read More Quantity: 3B Action Cream 4 for 3 Special! - Neat 3B Action Cream incorporates an effective antiperspirant in an emollient, soothing cream base for application to areas where skin surfaces rub together and become inflamed.
									... Read More Quantity: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Neat Touch Hand Lotion Neat Touch Hand Lotion contains an antiperspirant active ingredient in a moisturising, protective, cosmetic base. The product helps to prevent excessive hand perspiration and assures the user of dry, confident hands.
									... Read More Quantity: Neat Face Saver 4 for 3 Special! - Neat Face Saver is used by people working in warm climates, sportspeople
and those who perspire more than others. Useful for people that suffer the embarrassment of having facial
perspiration dripping down the forehead.
									... Read More Quantity: Maximum Foot Support Neat Feat Maximum Foot Supports offer three – quarter length supports that don’t pack down, flex and flow with every foot movement.
									... Read More Quantity: Full Length Insole The  Neat  Feat Full Length  Cushioning  Insole has a unique  construction that  catches  the  shock  forces that  constantly  pound  your  foot  with  every  step and  redistributes the  impact  forces evenly  through  the heel and  arch  to  reduce trauma.
									... Read More Quantity: Athletic Foot & Toe Cream The Neat Feat Athletic Foot Cream has an active ingredient that prevents sweating and has antifungal properties to assist with minor foot infections.
									... Read More Quantity: Heel Cup By using the Neat Feat Heel Cup you can cradle your heel and provide stability while walking. The construction absorbs the pounding shock of the heel.
									... Read More Quantity: Shoe Deodorizer Neat Feat Shoe Deodorizer contains an antibacterial ingredient that destroys the odour. This also helps to prolong the shoe life.
									... Read More Quantity: 2 for 1 Shoe Powder Applying Neat Feat Shoe Powder to the feet on a daily basis will reduce
the amount of foot perspiration within the shoe and help prevent an
environment for fungus growth. Shoes stay odor free
for prolonged periods of time.
									... Read More Quantity: Cool Foot Spray Formulated by New Zealand Doctors Neat Feat Cool Foot Spray contains menthol and alcohol to energize and refresh hot tired feet.
									... Read More Quantity: Odor Guard Insole Neat Feat Odour Guard Insole has been designed specifically to absorb moisture, reduce bacteria and odour.
									... Read More Quantity: Comfort Insole They fit all kinds of shoes and boots and provide comfort for the whole foot. Comfort Insole comes with a convenient trace and cut template that matches shoe size.
									... Read More Quantity: Walk Straights Neat Feat Walk Straights give your heels comfort while reducing uneven shoe wear.
									... Read More Quantity: © 2012 Neat Feat. All Rights Reserved. HOME | AFFILIATES | CONTACT 