
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 29 Feb 2012 00:06:34 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.3.9
X-Pingback: http://www.afpafitness.com/articles/xmlrpc.php
Status: 200 OK
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

AFPA Articles and Newsletters   » Women and Migraine Headaches Skip Navigation. Shop the AFPA Store My Account Shopping 
        Cart Checkout American Fitness Professionals & Associates About Us Mission Education Advisory Board Accreditation Clientele Job Post / Find Newsletter Success Stories Student Feedback Donations Contact AFPA Get Certified Fitness, 
              Training & Nutrition Certification Courses Personal Trainer Certification Course Advanced Personal Trainer Certification Course Master Personal Trainer Certification Course Nutrition & Wellness Consultant Certificate Course Sports Nutrition Consultant Certification Course Weight Management Consultant Certification Course Pre/Post Natal Exercise Specialist Certification Course Cardio Kickboxing Instructor Certification Course Children's Fitness Specialist Certification Course Cycle Instructor Certification Course Sports Conditioning Specialist Certification Course Functional Training Specialist Certification Course Yoga Fitness Instructor Certification Course - Level I (Beg. - Int.) Yoga Fitness Instructor Certification Course - Level II (Int.- Adv.) Pilates Fitness Instructor Certification Course - Level I (Mat) Pilates Fitness Instructor Certification Course - Level II (Props) Post-Rehab Exercise Specialist Certification Course Stability Ball Trainer Certification Course Strength Trainer Certification Course Senior Fitness Specialist Certification Course Aquatic Instructor Certification Course Group Fitness Instructor Certification Course Trainer of Special Populations Certification Course Distance Learning Education How to Get Certified Enrollment Procedures Benefits 
              of Certification Why AFPA Maintain 
              Your Credentials Frequently Asked Questions Continuing 
          Education Advanced Specializations CEC Courses CEC 
              Provider Application CEC Providers Conferences Upcoming Conferences Presenter Application Sponsorship Exhibitors Students Student Questions Virtual Library Frequently Asked Questions Student 
    Guidebook Student Downloads Study Tips AFPA Store Newsletter Signup Members AFPA Code of Ethics Certification Renewal Job Postings Request Duplicate Credential Professional Liability Insurance Refer a Friend Downloads Resources Course Catalog Gift Certificates Research 
              Articles Products Links Career 
          Center Post a Job Job Classifieds [Members Only] Career Resources Military & 
              Veterans Success Stories Alumni Websites Contact Us Search for articles related to Health, Nutrition & Fitness Articles & Newsletters Articles and Newletters Research Articles Alcoholism: The Natural Healing Approach Alternative (Complementary) Medicine Topics Strength Training Business & Management Nutrition & Wellness Exercise Program Design Exercise Prescription Athletes & Sports Conditioning Senior Fitness Stretching & Flexibility Aerobics/Group Fitness/Aqua Martial Arts/Kickboxing Mind Body/Pilates/Yoga Cycle Training Children & Youth Fitness Women’s Fitness & Health Issues Be Here To Help As A Women’s Health Consultant Learn The Science Of Sweat For Better Skincare Let Meditation Smooth The Storms Of Anxiety Let Your Wise Woman’s Lifestyle Reduce Diabetes Risk Enrich Your Spa/Salon Vacation With Hair Removal Aromatherapy Massage: Make the Tightness in Your Neck and Shoulders Disappear 7 STEPS TO HAVING MORE ENERGY Weight Management As A Holistic Syndrome Fitness Tips For Working with Breast Cancer Survivors Mindful Techniques For Daily Living Acne Care Solutions - Acne Skin Care Regime Herbal Skin Care Treating Depression with Meditation COPING WITH MENOPAUSE NATURALLY - ALTERNATIVES TO HRT FITNESS PROGRAMMING FOR POST-NATAL MOTHERS Pre-Natal Fitness Program Enhances Pregnancy, Delivery, and Recovery PREGNANT WOMEN SHOULD NOT SKYDIVE Pursuit Of Perfection Leaves Women With A Poor Body Image Guidelines for Exercise Training during Pregnancy The relationship of volume of resistance training and increases in the bone mineral density of post-menopausal women The Power of the Pyramid System Menopause, Early Menopause, Menopause The Keys to Our Success You May Be Suffering From Hormonal Imbalance Breast Cancer Update: Why Breast Cancer Rates Are Still Rising Young Women: Active for Life Female Athlete Triad:Preventable Disorders Under-Recognized Folate May Protect Against Alzheimers, Among Other Impairments Nutritional Factors in Menstrual Pain and Premenstrual Syndrome Exercise, Weight Loss and Gender Come Out and Play! Disordered Eating and Body Image Athletic Ammenorhea: Women at Risk Herbs Women Should Avoid Herbal Remedies For Women Food and the Adolescent Female Women and Migraine Headaches One In Eight Foods and Breast Cancer:Strong Evidence Shows a Link Energize Your Life Gender Bias and Women’s Health Issues Dancing Away the Menopause Blues….and Discomforts Treating PMS without Side Effects: A cream containing natural progesterone from wild yam is safer than conventional pharmaceuticals. Women and Sleep Overcoming Candida Albicans Information on Cancer Prevention Is Not Reaching Women Oral Contraceptives: Do The Risks Out-Weigh The Benefits? Exercising with Type 1 Diabetes during Pregnancy Young Women: Active for Life What is Pilates for? The Danger of Beauty Fitness Assessment Special Populations & Disabilities Mental Fitness Sports Medicine & Rehabilitation Learned Helplessness: Unlocking The Hidden Key to Life-Long Success! Anabolic Steroids and The Depression Connection AFPA Fitness, Personal Trainer & Nutrition Newsletters Women and Migraine Headaches By: Ruth Dalsky, MEd and Diane Wakat, Ph.D. Migraine headaches have been tormenting people since the time of Hippocrates. And torment is the correct descriptor, because migraines can be debilitating. They can range along a continuum from mild headache and no disability to excruciating pain and complete dysfunction. They can last for hours or days; they can make you nauseous, photophobic (sensitive to light), and phonophobic (sensitive to sound). And they have serious economic consequences as well, leading to the loss of millions of work days per year. Headaches are not a minor malady; they are the seventh leading reason for why people seek medical assistance in the US. More than 18 millions out-patient visits per year are due to headache. Of the different types of headache, women are more likely to develop tension headaches or migraine headaches - while men are more likely to experience cluster headaches. Migraines are unfortunately too common, affecting about one in 10 adults internationally - predominantly women. The prevalence of migraine headaches in adults is about 6% in men and 15-19% in women. These figures vary with age, but the occurrence increases from puberty until age 40, and then declines more significantly in older men. At least we’ve come far enough along the path of understanding migraines to have dismissed the ancient belief that headache was the result of demonic possession. But we still know more about what the precipitating factors are and about how to treat migraine pragmatically than we know about its underlying biological cause. There is a long standing debate as to the cause and nature of migraine headaches. This debate focuses on whether the origin of migraines stems from a vascular disturbance or a neurobiological imbalance. However, there may be an underlying mechanism involved in the development of migraine headaches that is characteristic of both theories. The role that serotonin plays in the brain may be a link between the neural and vascular systems. Therefore, regulating the role of serotonin receptors may help prevent migraines and lead to significant therapeutic outcomes. Experience has shown that certain foods can act as triggers in the onset of a migraine attack. Food culprits such as chocolate, caffeine, cheese, fish, wheat, nuts, tomatoes and alcohol (red wines and champagne) are the most well-known triggers of migraines. Certain food additives such as sodium nitrite (found in processed meats and hot dogs), MSG (Chinese foods), and food colorings may also cause migraines. Tyramine, a natural substance which is found in foods thathave been fermented or aged - such as wine, cheddar and blue cheese - may trigger migraines. Certain levels of female hormones may also trigger the onset of or contribute to the intensity of a migraine. The all-too-predictable headaches that develop across the 3-5 days before a woman’s period are even referred to as ‘menstrual migraines.’ Women may experience a greater number and more severe migraines with pregnancy, lactation, and in particular with menopause. Estrogen replacement therapy does not seen to alleviate these migraines, and in some instances may even exacerbate the condition. The use of computers has also contributed to an increased incidence of migraine. One type, ‘cervicogenic migraine,’ is precipitated by muscle tension and spinal rigidity in the neck. Staring at a computer screen, holding your head in one position for long stretches, really tightens up the neck and shoulder muscles - constricting the nerves and blood supply to the neck and head. That’s a prime trigger for a migraine. There are natural remedies that can benefit a person susceptible to migraines. Nutritional therapies that have been shown to be helpful include Vitamin D and calcium (for menstrual migraines, in particular); magnesium (600 mg/day); and high-dose riboflavin (400 mg). Good hydration (drinking enough fluids) is also important. One of the most effective natural remedies for preventing migraines is parthenolide, a compound found in the herb feverfew. It is used best as a preventive, but can also help blunt a migraine when it occurs. The key is in getting the effective dose of parthenolide, which is 250 micrograms. Just using a feverfew supplement may not work, since it doesn’t contain a standard amount of parthenolide. Another herbal aid for migraine is ginger. Ginger can settle the stomach, and may reduce some migraine symptoms after the fact. Standard medical treatment for migraines includes one or more of the following, depending upon whether the strategy is to prevent a migraine attack or if symptomatic relief is being sought. Options include aspirin (low dose for prevention), non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDS), Sumatriptan, Beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and even hyperbaric oxygen. Although there has been no steadfast cure or prevention of migraines, exercise and other natural remedies can be used effectively to prevent or abort a migraine attack. Chiropractic and massage may be especially helpful for cervicogenic migraine. Acupuncture, biofeedback, and stress reduction have been proven effective in many cases. By the way, if you use exercise to reduce the frequency or intensity of a migraine, don’t exercise during an attack (as if you felt like it!). It’s important to appreciate that ‘migraineurs’ may need to practice one or a combination of these strategies to prevent migraines, or to limit the intensity of a migraine headache. Knowing and avoiding migraine triggers, especially in foods, can make a big difference in the quality of life - by preventing the pain and debility that these nasty headaches cause. Home About Us Get Certified Personal Trainer Certification Continuing Education Conferences Members Resources AFPA Store Contact Us Site Map Legal Notice Privacy Notice AFPA 1601 Long Beach Blvd. P.O. Box 214  Ship Bottom, NJ 08008 afpa@afpafitness.com 1-800-494-7782   609-978-7583 [NJ] © 1994-2010    AFPA® & American Fitness 
     