Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

PCA volume 10 number 4/1 A child with
         massive pleural effusion due to tuberculosis: 'The patient's
         history is most important' N.S. Levie 1 , A.H. Teeuw 1 , D.C.
         Aronson 2 , M.O. Hoekstra 1 1 Department of Pediatrics, Emma
         Kinderziekenhuis AMC, Amsterdam 2 Department of Pediatric Surgery, Emma
         Kinderziekenhuis AMC, Amsterdam Pleural effusion in children is a rare phenomenon. The
         most common cause of pleural effusion is pneumonia, followed
         by a malignancy and tuberculosis. 1 In most of the
         patients with pneumonia, pleural effusion is caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus or Haemophilus influenzae . 2 We present a boy
         with pleural effusion due to Mycobacterium
         tuberculosis . Case
         report An 8-year-old, previously healthy, Dutch boy from
         Chinese parents was admitted with pneumonia and unilateral
         pleural effusion. He suffered from high fever, rhinitis,
         chest pain and cough with yellow sputum and he developed
         tachypnea, nausea and night sweating. Last summer, while
         visiting his family in Hong Kong, bronchitis was diagnosed.
         Four days prior to admission he was treated with several
         antibiotics without any improvement. Figure
                  1: Complete opacification of the right hemithorax,
                  with a shift of the mediastinum to the
                  right. Physical
         examination on admission showed a tachypneic boy who was not
         cyanotic, with an oxygen saturation of 92 %
         (without supplementary oxygen). On auscultation, breathing sounds were absent over the right
         hemithorax. Blood analysis revealed a white cell count of
         6.5x 10 9 /L and an ESR of 30 mm/hr. After a blood
         culture was taken, antibiotics were started. The chest-X-ray
         showed a total shadow of the right hemithorax.
         Ultrasonography of the chest showed the presence of pleural
         fluid. Hilar adenopathy was not observed (Fig. 1). Because
         he did not recover, thoracocentesis was performed. Five
         hundred ml of clear, green pleural fluid was punctured.
         Sputum, pleural fluid, gastric aspirate cultures and
         tuberculin skin tests were negative. Thoracic drainage was
         necessary because the boy did not improve and was still
         suffering from bouts of fever. Pleural biopsies were
         performed to exclude tuberculosis. The Ziehl Neelsen stain
         showed acid fast rods and treatment with tuberculostatics
         was started. Comment Tuberculosis was diagnosed in a child who was admitted
         because of pleural effusion. Tuberculosis is rarely
         diagnosed in Dutch children who present with massive pleural
         effusion. In Dutch children massive pleural effusion is
         mostly (50-70%) caused by bacterial pneumonia. In 11-17% of
         all cases, pleural effusion in children is due to congenital
         heart disease and in 5-10% effusions are caused by a
         malignancy. 6 On the other hand, pleural effusion
         can be observed in children when tuberculosis is diagnosed.
         It is estimated that pleural effusion is present in 6-22% of
         the children with primary tuberculosis. 5,6 Pleural effusion in children with tuberculosis is the
         result of subpleural parenchymal foci or due to hematogenous
         spread of the tuberculous bacilli. Besides the presence of massive pleural effusion, for
         several other reasons tuberculosis had to be considered in
         this patient. Firstly, the child had visited Hong Kong, an
         area with a known high prevalence of tuberculosis. Secondly,
         he suffered from respiratory disease during his stay abroad,
         being diagnosed as bronchitis, but which might have been the
         first manifestation of tuberculosis. And finally, the child
         did not recover when treated for bacterial pneumonia
         complicated by pleural effusion. Additional investigations
         (overnight sampling of stomach content, tuberculin skin test
         and pleural biopsies) resulted in the identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis . This patient
         had a negative tuberculin skin test, but the sensitivity of
         the test is 90-98%. 4,5 Therefore, in-contact
         patients with initial negative skin tests should be retested
         after 2-3 months to allow time for tuberculin
         conversion. 3 The importance of including tuberculosis in the
         differential diagnosis of children with pleural effusion is
         the increasing incidence of tuberculosis in developed
         countries nowadays. In the past decade, the incidence of
         tuberculosis in children in the USA has increased with 40%.
         The resurgence of tuberculosis in children is mainly due to
         the resurgence in adults. The increased incidence of
         tuberculosis in developed countries is mainly caused by an
         increase in immigration of people from countries with a high
         prevalence of tuberculosis who seek asylum in developed
         countries. In the 90's, this especially applied for
         immigrants originating from Africa, South-America and Asia.
         Tuberculosis remains a major health problem in Africa, with
         annual rates varying from 200-400 per 100.000 in the
         population. 4 Tuberculosis control in these parts
         of the world is poor, due to limited financial resources,
         non-compliance to therapy and a high incidence of AIDS. This
         results in increased resistance of mycobacteria for
         tuberculostatics. 5 References 1. Alkrinawi
                  S, Chernick V. Pleural infection in children. Sem
                  in Resp Inf 1996;Vol 11, 3:148-154. 2. Hardie
                  WD, Roberts NE et al. Complicated Parapneumonic
                  Effusions in Children Caused by Penicillin -
                  Nonsusceptible Streptococcus Pneumoniae. Pediatrics
                  1998; Vol 101, 3: 388-392. 3. Givan
                  D, Eigen H. Common pleural effusions in children.
                  Clin Chest Med 1998; Vol 19, 2:363-371. 4. Merino
                  J, Carpintero I et al. Tuberculous Pleural Effusion
                  in Children. Chest 1999; 115:26-30. 5. Wong
                  GWK, Oppenheimer SJ. Childhood Tuberculosis. In:
                  Clinical Tuberculosis. Edited by PDO Davies:
                  Chapman & Hall, London, 1994. 6. Scheinmann
                  P, Refabert L et al. Paediatric tuberculosis. In:
