<http://www.alcoholanddrugabuse.com/blog/?p=355>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

A Review of The Coleman Institute | Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment Resources Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment Resources About A Review of The Coleman Institute September 12, 2011 @ 2:26 pm 
			· Filed under Addiction Recovery , Addiction Treatment , detox , drug abuse , Drug Addiction , drug treatment centers , heroin detox , substance abuse , treatment centers The Coleman Institute is a remarkable substance abuse recovery center that’s been helping patients suffering from addiction since 1998 achieve their recovery goals and maintain long term sobriety. Unique programs are provided by the Coleman Institute to help their patients during detoxification to stabilize from the effects of opiates, alcohol and benzodiazepines. These effective and unique programs were developed under the direction of Dr. Peter Coleman and with more than one thousand patients treated their success rate is 98 percent which is pretty remarkable. Dr. Coleman not only directed the development of these effective programs he’s also the Founder and National Medical Director of The Coleman Institute . Unless you’ve been in a patient’s shoes, not everyone would completely understand addiction, what patients go through during detoxification, and how stressful and challenging maintaining long term sobriety can be, but Dr. Coleman does. He’s been there and is a recovering addict himself so he understands what their patients are going through and what it takes to not only achieve sobriety, but to maintain it. The Coleman Institute is an Advanced Center for Addiction Treatment and provides their patients with a variety of services to keep them safe and comfortable during detox. Accelerated Opiate Detox The Coleman Institute provides ADT which is a revolutionary Accelerated Detoxification Technique to help their patients with opiate addiction. Opiate painkillers like Percocet, Dilaudid, Vicodin, Demerol, Oxycontin, and Methadone are very addictive as well as heroin. No matter what opiate addiction an individual may be suffering from, ADT can help. When a person abuses narcotic drugs a certain amount of the narcotic attaches to their brain receptors and the ADT technique Coleman Institute provides for their patients helps to remove them in a safe, comfortable and quicker way than detoxing on your own. Suboxone Detox Many people are prescribed Suboxone to relieve heroin or methadone addiction withdrawal symptoms. Because Suboxone is addictive there are many people that are unable to stop using the drug after they start because they have had to stay on Suboxone maintenance for a long period of time. The Coleman Institute provides their accelerated detox program for patients addicted to Suboxone which is also used for opiate addiction. They understand the discomfort involved when a patient tries to stop taking Suboxone on their own even when they’re weaned off of the drug. They provide their patients with a safe and much easier Suboxone detox process that’s very effective. This takes around 5 to 8 days and when completed the Naltrexone implant is recommended to their patients. Methadone Detox Some treatment centers provide methadone maintenance for their patients addicted to drugs like heroin or oxycontin while they’re working on their recovery and they become dependent on the drug. Sometimes patients come to the Coleman Institute seeking help because they’re now addicted to methadone. The Coleman Institute provides their Accelerated Detox Program to their methadone addicted patients that’s been modified. It takes 8 days for their patients to completely detox and helps them to stay clean. Their patients that are addicted to methadone are eligible for their extended form of Accelerated Detox Program but they have to be in good health, willing to attend on a daily basis, stay in the local area, agree not to drive, and agree to be fully supervised by someone during the treatment program until the Naltrexone Therapy has begun. Alcohol Detox The Coleman Institute has developed a program where almost all alcoholics can safely detoxify on an outpatient basis over a 3 to 4 day period. A screening process is done on their patients to make sure that the outpatient procedure is right for them and to make sure they have the necessary support person that will be able to help them manage their medications at home. Their patients first undergo a comprehensive history, physical, and lab work. The patient then receives an IV medicine cocktail to replenish depleted nutrients and neurochemicals in the brain. Next their given the Phenobarbital challenge which calms their patient, prevents seizures, keeps them safe and comfortable and begins the detox process. Phenobarbital can be given until the patient’s detox process is under control which is around 3 to 4 hours. Patients are discharged and sent home in the care of their support person. Doses of medications are calculated and dispensed by the patient’s support person. Daily the patient returns to the clinic over the next couple of days until it’s evident that the patient’s detox is completed. The next step is educating their patient about the different options for their ongoing recovery which includes medications, substance abuse counseling and 12 step meetings. Benzo Detox Benzo Detox is also provided at the Coleman Institute for patients that have become dependent on Benzodiazepines. Some of the medications that fall under this category include Xanax, Valium, and Klonopin. Flumazenil is used to flush the benzodiazepines out of their patients system quickly and reduce cravings. This is done on an outpatient basis and the patient usually completes their detox in about a week. The Accelerated Detox Program Coleman Institute provides for their patients is very effective and extremely successful helping them stay clean from alcohol, benzodiazepines, and opiate drugs. Coleman Institute also realizes the importance of aftercare programs which can provide their patients with an even better chance of staying clean. Coleman Institute’s AfterCare Coleman Institute recommends Naltrexone therapy for all of their patients with opiate addiction for at least a year. This way the patient can focus on their road to recovery without having to deal with the intense cravings opiated addiction can cause. 12 Step Groups are very important and Coleman Institute can’t stress that to their patients enough. There are a wide range of 12 step groups that can be found in most cities. 12 Step Groups offer support, a guide for recovery, education and a connection with others who understand what you’re going through and the challenges that are faced during recovery. Patients at Coleman Institute receive help finding the 12 step group that best fits their particular needs. Substance abuse therapy is important for patients learning to live life and staying drug free. Professional therapists can make a big difference for patients providing education and support in an individual setting. Therapists help patients to understand relapse and how to avoid it as well as other psychological challenges that can develop during their early recovery. Coleman Institute has Aftercare Recovery Coach/Coordinators that are happy to assist patients in determining which substance abuse therapy program is right for them depending on their specific needs. Medical Care is also important for their patients during recovery. Coleman Institute recommends their patients to follow up with physicians that have experience in substance abuse and mental health. They can provide their patients with lists of physicians available in their area. After patients become drug free, sometimes a variety of mental health issues can develop like depression, anxiety or bipolarity and it’s important to have a physician during this time and helps to prevent relapse. The Coleman Institute in Virginia also encourages their patients to use resources during their recovery. They provide their patients with a list of recovery resources like DVD’s, books, and podcasts that help aid their patients in their long term sobriety. Permalink Leave a Comment Name (required) E-mail (required, never displayed) URI We Can Help Talk To A Counselor Right Now - Just Type in Your Phone Number and Click The "Call Me Now" Button Search Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 Categories Addiction Recovery Addiction Treatment Aftercare alcohol abuse Alcohol Addiction alcohol rehab centers Alcohol Treatment celebrity substance abuse crystal meth crystal meth addiction crystal meth rehab detox drug abuse Drug Addiction drug rehab drug treatment centers Heroin Addiction heroin detox heroin recovery heroin treatment intervention meth additio