Connection: Close

Urine Leakage During Pregnancy LoveToKnow » Health & Fitness » Pregnancy » Pregnancy Problems » Urine Leakage During Pregnancy Urine Leakage During Pregnancy Leaking urine during pregnancy is usually a simple annoyance. By Amy Hoover The embarrassing problem of urine leakage during pregnancy is common, but it usually goes away as the body heals after giving birth. Pregnancy Causes Incontinence Even if you have never had problems with bladder leakage in the past, you may find yourself leaking a bit in the third trimester of pregnancy . While it can happen with as simple an act as shifting positions, it is usually brought on by: Laughing Coughing Exercising Sneezing Lifting objects As your baby and uterus grow, more pressure will be put upon your internal organs, including the bladder. Fetal movement , such as strong kicks, may also cause the bladder to contract, leaking urine. Sex during pregnancy may also cause urine leaks. Because the muscles are stressed, urine leaks during pregnancy are considered 'stress incontinence.' Hormonal changes can also contribute to leaks. Women who have had multiple pregnancies or children may find they begin leaking urine sooner in their pregnancies. This might be due to loosened pelvic floor muscles that never tightened after each birth. Previous vaginal births , large babies, or tearing can also contribute to leaking urine. Coping with Urine Leakage during Pregnancy Although you may not get total relief from urinary incontinence until after the baby is born, there are a few things you can do to manage the problem. Kegel Exercises Kegel exercises strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. To do a Kegel, imagine that you are stopping a stream of urine mid-flow. Keep that muscle contracted for a few seconds and then relax. Do this exercise often throughout the day, or in three sets of ten repetitions. Try to increase the amount of time you contract the muscle as you get better at the exercise. Scheduled Bathroom Visits Visiting the bathroom at regular intervals, or when you realize a situation may arise that can bring on urine leakage, can help prevent the problem. For example, be sure to use the restroom before watching a particularly funny comic or exercising. While you are urinating, lean forward slightly to provide extra pressure on the bladder that will help empty it completely. Absorbent Pads Wearing a pad or pantyliner that is meant for urinary incontinence can help you avoid awkward wet spots and smells. These pads look like a menstruation pad, but are made to absorb urine. Pack an extra one or two when you are out in public to feel fresh all day. Serious Implications Though most urine leakage during pregnancy is simple stress incontinence, it can signal more serious complications. If you find yourself leaking urine because you are always thirsty and have frequent urges to go to the bathroom, this might be a symptom of gestational diabetes . Let your physician know, so s/he can perform a test. Sometimes urinary leaks can help identify other diseases and/or pregnancy related problems . Other times to call the doctor in regards to urinary incontinence while pregnant include: Experiencing a burning or tingling sensation when urine leaks Having the urge to use the bathroom or leaking immediately after emptying your bladder Smelling a strong, unusual odor Noticing blood in urine Seeing a dark yellow, almost orange color to the leaked urine Wondering whether you actually experienced your water breaking instead of a urine leak Stay Hydrated It may be tempting to cut back on fluid intake in order to avoid urinary incontinence. Women are usually advised to follow pregnancy diet guidelines that advise drinking approximately six to eight glasses of water a day. Dehydration can lead to nausea, vomiting, pregnancy headaches , and even preterm labor. Instead of cutting out water or healthy juices, avoid known diuretics that will dehydrate you. Caffeine and pregnancy is a combo to be avoided for several reasons, including causing you to have to urinate more often. Post-Partum Incontinence Women who experience urine leakage during pregnancy are usually rid of the problem within six weeks to three months after giving birth. Doing Kegel exercises regularly can help you recover from incontinence brought on by childbirth. If the problem continues, visit your doctor to discuss options for managing urinary incontinence. The National Kidney Foundation lists six treatments for persistent urinary incontinence: Drugs Behavior therapies Exercise Biofeedback Electrical stimulation Surgery A doctor will help you decide which treatment is right for you. . Related Topics Winter Maternity Clothing Dry Cough During Pregnancy Labor Symptoms What Does it Feel Like When Your Water Breaks? Pregnancy Labor Signs Second Trimester of Pregnancy Pregnancy Problems Health & Fitness Get Pregnancy Advice Get advice from our experts, the LoveToKnow community, and your friends! What would you love to get advice on? Get Advice Get advice from our experts, the LoveToKnow community, and your friends! Request advice below FAQ Help Get Advice Get and Give Pregnancy Advice Browse Pregnancy Categories About Pregnancy Conception and Birth Control Having a Baby Infertility Labor and Childbirth Maternity Wear Pregnancy and Employment Pregnancy Calendar Pregnancy Experts Pregnancy Health and Exercise Pregnancy Medications Pregnancy Problems Pregnancy Slideshows Pregnancy Tests Pregnancy Week by Week Pregnant Celebrities Pregnancy Slideshows Pregnant Style Clothes Fashion Maternity Jeans LoveToKnow Expert Interview Traditional Chinese Medicine: Interview with Linda C. D'Agostino LoveToKnow talks to Linda C. D'Agostino, a registered acupuncturist and nurse, about ways couples can use Chinese medicine to treat fertility issues. New in Pregnancy Can Bed Rest Prevent a Miscarriage? Depression After Unsuccessful Fertility Treatments Is it Easier to Conceive the Second Baby than the First? Normal Weight Gain During Pregnancy Is a Chair Massage Okay During Pregnancy? Follow Us Home Beauty & Style Entertainment & Hobbies Health & Fitness Home, Garden & Events Internet & Technology Money & Business Parenting 