Set-Cookie: _radiant_session=2b66f311b7bb18759693ec0ae4f3993d; path=/
Cache-Control: private, max-age=0, must-revalidate

Similar questions - Depend® For Professionals Contact Us Urinary Incontinence Incontince Aids Incontinence Care Ask An Expert Your Stories Incontinence Problems Ask our Expert Similar questions These questions might be similar to 'I have a bowel problem, can i still wear Depend?' Can bowel incontinence be helped by pelvic floor muscles exercises? Muscle-strengthening exercises (pelvic floor exercises) can be very helpful in treating bowel incontinence. Pelvic floor exercises are done by cont... Topic: Female Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Bowel incontinence , pelvic floor exercises , bowel , faecal incontinence My husband is undergoing radiation therapy.  He has bowel incontinence.  Do you make a product for this problem? Sorry to hear about your husband's prostate cancer. The Depend Fitted Briefs is suitable for bowel incontinence and is available from pharmacies. P... Topic: Male Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Bowel incontinence How can I find out which pad I should be wearing? It sounds like you could benefit from seeing a Continence Advisor who can help you to find the correct aid. The Continence Advisor can also give yo... Topic: Female Answered over 2 years ago Tags: urine loss , pad , Continence Advisors , free samples , Urinary Incontinence , continence needs , aids , depend , poise , Continence Foundation of Australia 2 Comments How do I mask the unpleasant smell from the pads? Firstly, if using incontinence aids to contain urine you should not use any other creams or lotions at the same time.  The creams impact on the eff... Topic: Female Answered over 2 years ago Tags: incontinence aids , Continence Foundation of Australia , Continence Advisors , product selector tool , depend I'm dribbling urine, is there anything that can help me? Firstly, I would suggest that you see your GP for a full check-up, as one of the common health issues of a man of your age is the prostate.  The GP... Topic: Male Answered over 2 years ago Tags: prostate , Continence Advisor , Continence Foundation of Australia , incontinence aids , Depend Guards , urine leakage , depend I have noticed a heavy dragging sensation in my genital area and can’t seem to work out why? There are absolutely things that you can do to address and minimise your bladder weakness and no reason to sit by and live with it.

Firstly, you... Topic: Female Answered over 2 years ago Tags: bladder weakness , doctor , urine test , prolapse , weak pelvic floor muscles , gynecologist , treatment , pelvic floor exercises , urge incontinence , poor bladder habits , incontinence , incontinence treatments , bladder training , good bladder health , depend My problem is not so much incontinence as the inability of mu bladder to last more than one to one and a half hours before it is so full it involeentarily releases urine. This also occurs all night. i am woken by my blaader every approx 1 and 1/2 hours. I There are some tips that we can recommend you to do such as pelvic floor exercises, you can go to this website for more information
http://www.dep... Topic: Female Answered about 1 year ago Tags: depend , poise Ask a question now... Depend products are also available through distributors: The distributors listed below can arrange home delivery of "incontinence products&quo... Topic: Male Answered about 1 year ago Tags: Depend products , green 1 Comment Ask a question now...Are Depend Guards for Men available for purchase in European countries? Yes Depend Male Guards are sold in the UK and Holland, I am not sure about the other countries. Topic: Male Answered about 1 year ago Tags: Depend products 1 Comment Ask a question now... Hi Ruth,
Unfortunately we only manage the "incontinence":/ range here in Australia and New Zealand. We will forward your query on to the... Topic: Female Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Depend Boosts , Canada Why do fitted briefs have a cloth like cover? Depend Briefs will now permanently have a new cloth like outer cover for improved comfort. The absorbency of this "incontinence product":... Topic: Male Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Depend briefs , fitted briefs I am female 63 years old. I have both stress and urge incontinence which are getting harder to manage. I am going on a bus holiday for 24 days .What incontinence products would be easiest and most comfortable and least likely to give out odours? Depend has a range of "incontinence products":/incontinence-aids/ that would suitable for your condition. In particular the Depend Underw... Topic: Male Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Depend underwear , bus trip I'm not able to stop wetting myself, what should I do? It is important to know that if you stop drinking water, the bladder muscles can become weaker, as it does not need to work to contain the urine. Y... Topic: Female Answered over 2 years ago Tags: bladder muscles , caffeine , toilet , incontinence aid , Depend Shields , healthy bladder , healthcare professional , incontinence I am a adult male and I use depends.  When my bowels move, it leaks through the depends and onto my clothes,  I use underwear for men super plus small medium.  Is there another brand that would not leak.

Steve Nelson If you need something with a higher capacity you could use Depend Fitted Briefs for "bowel incontinence":/urinary-incontinence/bowel/ whi... Topic: Male Answered about 1 year ago Tags: Depend Fitted Briefs which stores sell depend male guards? Depend Male Guards and other "incontinence products":/incontinence-aids/ are sold in pharmacy and soon they will be sold on Woolworths Topic: Male Answered about 1 year ago Tags: Depend Male Guards , green 2 Comments I leak urine and have tried wearing my wife’s pads but get very embarrassed as it’s bulky, is there anything else I can wear so people can’t see it? Yes, absolutely there are other products that you can wear, specifically designed for men and to be discreet, such as the Depend Male Guard.

You... Topic: Male Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Depend Male Guard , Male Incontinence Products , incontinence aids , Continence Advisor , Continence Foundation , leakage Where can I buy the larger size in the Depend Underwear we used to buy large 77-118kg only can get medium now. There is a large size Depend Underwear for Men available now. You can ask your pharmacist to order the product for you (it is called Depend Underwe... Topic: Male Answered over 2 years ago Tags: Depend Underwear for Men large , male large , large Search our answers Categories Male 40 questions Female 30 questions Popular tags Undergarments poise Continence Advisor Continence Foundation of Australia depend green free sample Poise products incontinence aids underwear incontinence Continence Foundation male guards drynites booster Bowel incontinence guards for men prostate NZ incontinence aid Urinary Incontinence CFA phone super underwear Underwear for Men Stress Incontinence Urge Incontinence Overflow Incontinence Bowel Incontinence Incontinence Treatments Discover New Incontinence Aids Male Incontinence Female Incontinence CAPS Product Fitting Instructions Incontinence Products FAQs Online Retaile