Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - Recent Research - August 2005 Acupuncture.Com - Gateway to Chinese Medicine, Health and Wellness Store PATIENTS Conditions A-Z Acupuncture Clinic Find an Acupuncturist Herbal Remedies Diet & Nutrition Chi Gong &Tai Chi Chinese Medicine Basics Patient Testimonials Animal Acupuncture Store PRACTITIONERS/STUDENTS Syndromes A-Z AcuPoint Locator Herbology Practice Building CEUs/Events Employment Study Acupuncture Acupuncture Schools Research TCM Library Laws & Regulations Practitioner Links Practitioner Store MORE Points Newsletter Catalog Requests Contact Us About Acupuncture.Com Privacy Policy ANNOUNCEMENTS Acupuncture.Com accepts article contributions. Email 

							submissions to contact@acupuncture.com FIND AN ACUPUNCTURIST Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice Subscribe Keep informed on current news in the world of 

							Traditional Chinese Medicine. Home > Newsletters > August 2005 > Recent Research Recent Research Review of 
										Herbs for Improving Cognitive Function Chinese 
										Medicine May Offer Relief for Skin 
										Disorders Research 
										Indicates Acupuncture May Be Effective 
										for Insomnia Review of 
Herbs for Improving Cognitive Function Howes, M.J. and Houghton, P.J. Plants used in Chinese and Indian traditional 
medicine for improvement of memory and cognitive function. Pharmacology, 
biochemistry, and behavior 75(3):513-27. In traditional practices of Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine, numerous plants have 
been used to treat cognitive disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases 
such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). An ethnopharmacological approach has provided 
leads to identifying potential new drugs from plant sources, including those for 
cognitive disorders. Many drugs currently available in Western medicine were 
originally isolated from plants, or are derived from templates of compounds 
isolated from plants. Some anticholinesterase (anti-ChE) alkaloids isolated from 
plants have been investigated for their potential in the treatment of AD, and 
are now in clinical use. Galantamine, isolated from several plants including 
Lycoris radiata Herb, which was used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), is 
licensed in the United Kingdom for the treatment of mild to moderate AD. Various 
other plant species have shown pharmacological activities relevant to the 
treatment of cognitive disorders, indicating potential for therapeutic use in 
disorders such as AD. This article reviews some of the plants and their active 
constituents that have been used in traditional Ayurvedic medicine and TCM for 
their reputed cognitive-enhancing or antiageing effects. Plants and their 
constituents with pharmacological activities that may be relevant for the 
treatment of cognitive disorders, including enhancement of cholinergic function 
in the central nervous system (CNS), anti-inflammatory and antioxidant 
activities, are discussed. Chinese 
Medicine May Offer Relief for Skin Disorders Chen, C.J. and Yu, H.S. Acupuncture, electrostimulation, and reflex therapy in 
dermatology. Dermatologic therapy 16(2):87-92. Acupuncture is an old therapeutic method that includes both 
needle and nonneedle acupuncture. Nonneedle acupuncture includes moxibustion, 
cupping, and acupressure. In the field of dermatology, acupuncture has been 
reported to be beneficial for the treatment of acne, postherpetic neuralgia, 
psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, and urticaria. In acupuncture treatment of dermal 
diseases, both the filiform needle and the cutaneous needle are powerful tools. 
In the treatment of refractory dermal diseases, cutaneous needle acupuncture is 
usually followed by cupping to intensify the therapeutic effect. In cases where 
needle acupuncture is not possible, acupuncture-like transcutaneous electrical 
nerve stimulation (TENS) is a good alternative. In addition, reflex therapy 
based on foot reflex areas may also be an alternative. A lack of controlled 
studies is the main drawback for the methods mentioned above. However, the 
experiences from experts in this field may offer us new ideas to resolve 
refractory disorders in dermatology. Research 
Indicates Acupuncture May Be Effective for Insomnia Sok, S.R., et al. Effects of acupuncture therapy on 
insomnia. Journal of Advanced Nursing 44(4):375-84. Acupuncture therapy, commonly used in clinical practice in Asian cultures, has 
the potential to produce a positive effect with patients experiencing insomnia. 
The purpose of this systematic review was to: 1) assess the trends across 
intervention studies using acupuncture for insomnia from 1975 to 2002; 2) 
examine dependent variables and 3) evaluate the effects of acupuncture therapy 
on insomnia in older people. Data were collected from November 2001 to January 2003 from a wide range of 
electronic databases. Half the studies that met the researchers’ criteria had 
small samples (50 subjects or fewer), which were composed mainly of older women 
who had a variable duration of insomnia from three days to 34 years. The main 
methods used to assess outcomes were questionnaires. All the studies reported 
statistically significant positive results. The results 
of this review suggest that acupuncture may be an effective intervention for the 
relief of insomnia. Further research, using a randomized clinical trial design, 
is necessary to determine the effectiveness of acupuncture. More work is also 
needed to promote the long-term therapeutic effects of acupuncture and to 
compare it with other therapies for insomnia. This Month's 
							Articles August, 2005 Volume 3, Number 
								8 The 
								Health Benefits of Tea The 
								Yin-Yang Taoist Concept of Food Recent Research Ask The Doctor Archives 2005 January February March April May June July Archives 2004: J | F | M | A | M J | S 
	| N | D Archives 2003: J | F | M | A | M | J | A | O | N | D All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All 
		rights reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school referral services 
		provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website is subject to our Terms and 
		Conditions . All logos, service 