
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 02:18:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_fcgid/2.3.6 Phusion_Passenger/3.0.9 mod_bwlimited/1.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Sickle cell anemia Disease | History and Articles on Trait of Sickle cell anemia Sickle cell  anemia - Picture, Symptoms, Causes and Treatment of Sickle cell  anemia Tweet Information on Sickle cell  anemia Sickle cell anemia is a condition of the blood cells that affects mainly persons of African or mediterranean descent (Italian, Spanish, etc.). It is caused by an inherited abnormality of the oxygen carrying protein of the blood (hemoglobin). Sickle cell anemia is an inherited form of anemia - a condition in which there aren't enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen throughout your body. Causes of Sickle cell  anemia Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA) is caused by a change in the chemical composition of the protein (hemoglobin or Hgb) that carries the oxygen inside of the red blood cells (RBC's). Normal Hgb is a round or ball-shaped folded molecule composed of 4 protein subunits - 2 alpha chains and 2 beta chains. Symptom of  Sickle cell  anemia The clinical course of sickle cell anemia does not follow a single pattern; some patients have mild symptoms, and some have very severe symptoms. The basic problem, however, is the same: the sickle-shaped red blood cells tend to get stuck in narrow blood vessels, blocking the flow of blood. joint pain and other bone pain fatigue breathlessness rapid heart rate delayed growth and puberty susceptibility to infections ulcers on the lower legs (in adolescents and adults) Constipation bone pain attacks of abdominal pain fever Because people with sickle cell trait don't have the disease, they may never discover that they carry the gene. That's why it's recommended that teens who are unsure of their sickle cell status ask their doctors about testing. Treatment of sickle cell anemia disease Patients with sickle cell disease need certain treatment and follow-up even when not having a painful crisis. Supplementation with folic acid, an essential element in producing cells, is required because of the rapid red blood cell turnover. Treatment for sickle cell disease usually focuses on symptoms. While bone marrow transplant can be curative, this therapy is indicated in only a minority of patients, predominantly because of the high risk of the procedure and difficulty in finding suitable donors. Therefore, the purpose of therapy is to manage and control symptoms resulting from crises and to try to limit the frequency of crises. Find more Iron Deficiency and Overload Disorders Tweet Be the first one to send your comments for this page. Use the form below. Popular Articles Menkes syndrome Barbecue recipe Cassia plant Proline Stye Polyuria Condition disease Copper Beriberi Sodium intake Eating low-calorie foods such as salads can help you cut back on calories-make them more interesting by trying different food combinations and methods of preparation. Fill out your email address! New Blog Articles Learning the Freestyle Swimming Technique What Dosha Test Do For You: Check This Out! Learning How Calcium Supplement Works Brisk Walking Benefits: Aim for Excellent Health Are the Benefits of Swimming Enough to Keep Me Healthy? Stay Connected Tweet Share | Deficiency Diseases Hemochromatosis Siderosis Anemia Thalassemia Sideroblastic anemia Porphyria cutanea tarda Sickle-cell anemia Wilsons Disease kwashiorkor Menkes syndrome Neutropenia Keratomalacia Xerophthalmia Prophylaxis Rhodopsin Bitot's spots Beriberi Pellagra Macrocytic anemia Megaloblastic anemia Pernicious anemia Scurvy Rickets Osteomalacia Abetalipoproteinemia Muscular dystrophy Haemolytic anaemia Cholestatic Jaundice Constipation Myxedema Cretinism Hypothyroidism Hypothyroidism symptom Losing weight with hypothyroidism Subclinical hypothyroidism Congenital hypothyroidism Hashimotos thyroiditis Postpartum thyroiditis Hyperthyroidism Hyperthyroidism symptom Feline hyperthyroidism Graves disease Thyrotoxicosis Plummer's disease Thyroid storm Fluorosis Acrodermatitis enteropathica Metal fume fever Keshan disease Metabolic Syndrome Nutrition Wellness Health Fitness Food & Cooking Healthy Eating & Diet Vitamins | Amino Acids | Herbs | Minerals | Nutrients | Supplements Healthy Living | Dental Care | Products | Skin Vitamins | Ayurveda Deficiency | Alternative Medicines | How To | Symptoms Exercises | Gardening | Picture Gallery Exercise Recipes | Fruits & Vegetables Diet | Weight Loss | Green Tea | Noni Juice | Acai Nutrition Articles | Vitamins BLOG | Your Feedback & Suggestions | Disclaimer | Site Map | Home © online-vitamins-guide.com . All rights reserved. Vitamins Amino Acids Nutrients Herbs Minerals Supplements Diet