Vary: Accept-Encoding

Rheumatoid Arthritis Information | Treatment Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatment | Cure About
            																Us l Tests & 
                                              Testimonials l Information l FREE service l Products l FAQ l Contact
            																Us l Home l Rheumatoid 
                      Arthritis Information Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, inflammatory autoimmune disorder that causes the immune system to attack the joints. Rheumatoid arthritis is a 
disabling and painful inflammatory condition, which can lead to substantial loss 
of mobility due to pain and joint destruction. Rheumatoid 
arthritis is also systemic in 
that it often also affects many extra-articular tissues throughout the body 
including the skin , blood vessels, heart , lungs, and muscles. Derived from the Greek rheumatos= flowing, -oid= in the shape 
of, arthr= joint, itis= condition involving inflammation Rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms The American College of Rheumatology has defined (1987) the 
following criteria for Rheumatoid Arthritis : Morning stiffness of >1 hour. Arthritis and soft-tissue swelling of >3 of 14 joints/joint 
  groups Arthritis of hand joints Symmetric arthritis Subcutaneous nodules in specific places Rheumatoid factor at a level above the 95th percentile Radiological changes suggestive of joint erosion Four criteria for Rheumatoid Arthritis have to be met, although many patients are treated despite not meeting Rheumatoid arthritis criteria. The symptoms that distinguish rheumatoid arthritis are 
inflammation and soft-tissue swelling of many joints at the same time (polyarthritis). The hands are generally affected in a symmetric fashion. The pain generally 
improves with use of the affected joints, and there is usually stiffness of all 
joints in the morning that lasts over 1 hour. If the arthritis has been longstanding, the inflammatory 
activity has led to erosion and destruction of the joint surface , which impairs 
their range of movement and leads to deformity. The fingers are typically 
deviated towards the little finger (ulnar deviation) and can assume unnatural 
shapes. Subcutaneous nodules on extensor surfaces, e.g. the elbows, 
are often present. It is recommended that Transfer 
Factor Advanced Formula to be used in autoimmune conditions . Transfer Factor Plus is generally preferred for 
conditions caused by infection. Transfer Factors suppress over acting immune system to ease autoimmune conditions. Rheumatoid Arthritis Diagnosis When Rheumatoid Arthritis is being clinically suspected, immunological studies 
are required, such as rheumatoid factor (RF, a specific antibody). A negative Rheumatoid Factor 
does not rule out Rheumatoid Arthritis ; rather, the arthritis is called seronegative. During the 
first year of illness, rheumatoid factor is frequently negative. 80% patients 
eventually convert to seropositive status. Rheumatoid Factor is also seen in other illnesses, 
like Sjogren's syndrome, therefore the test is not very specific. Because of 
this low specificity, a new serological test has been developed in recent years, 
which tests for the presence of so called anti-citrullinated protein (ACP) 
antibodies. Like RF, this test can detect approximately 80% of all Rheumatoid Arthritis patients , but is rarely positive in non- Rheumatoid Arthritis patients, giving it a specificity of 
around 98%. In addition, ACP antibodies 
can be often detected in early stages of Rheumatoid Arthritis disease , or even before disease onset. Currently, most common test for ACP 
antibodies is the anti-CCP (cyclic citrulinated peptide) test. Also, several 
other blood tests are usually done to allow for other causes of arthritis , such 
as lupus erythematosus . The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive 
protein, full blood count, renal function, liver enzymes and immunological tests 
(e.g. antinuclear antibody/ANA) are all performed at this stage. Ferritin can 
reveal hemochromatosis, which can mimic Rheumatoid Arthritis. Natural Joint Pain Relief which works well with Transfer Factor Advanced 
Formula .   
Transfer factors suppress over acting immune system to ease rheumatoid 
arthritis symptoms. Pathophysiology of Rheumatoid Arthritis The cause of Rheumatoid Arthritis is unknown , but long 
suspected to be infectious. Mycoplasma, Erysipelothrix, Epstein-Barr virus, 
parvovirus and rubella have been suspected but never supported in 
epidemiological studies. As in other autoimmune diseases , the "mistaken 
identity" theory suggests that an offending organism causes an immune response that leaves behind antibodies that are specific to that organism. The antibodies 
are not specific enough, though. They begin an immune attack against, in this 
case, the synovium, because some molecule in the synovium "looks like" a 
molecule on the offending organism that created the initial immune reaction . Autoimmune diseases require that the affected individual have 
a defect in the ability to distinguish self from foreign molecules. This ability 
is acquired in the first year of life. There are markers on many cells that 
confer this self-identifying feature. However, some classes of markers allow for Rheumatoid Arthritis to happen. 90% of patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis have the cluster of markers known as the 
HLA-DR4/DR1 cluster , whereas only 40% of controls do. Thus, in theory, Rheumatoid Arthritis requires susceptibility to the disease through genetic endowment with specific 
markers and an infectious event that triggers an autoimmune response . Once triggered, the immune response causes inflammation of the synovium. Modern pharmacological treatments of Rheumatoid Arthritis target these early and 
intermediate molecular mediators of inflammation, including tumor necrosis 
factor alpha (TNF-?), interleukin (IL)–1, IL-6, transforming growth factor beta, 
IL-8, fibroblast growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor. Once the 
inflammatory reaction is established, the synovium thickens, the cartilage and 
the underlying bone begins to disintegrate and evidence of joint destruction 
accrues. It is recommended that Transfer 
Factor Advanced Formula to be used in autoimmune conditions . Transfer Factor Plus is generally preferred for 
conditions caused by infection. Transfer Factors suppress over acting immune system to ease autoimmune conditions. Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatment Pharmacological treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis can be 
divided into disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), anti-inflammatory 
agents and analgesics. DMARDs have been found to produce durable remissions and 
delay or halt disease progression. This is not true of anti-inflammatories and 
analgesics. DMARDs can be further subdivided into xenobiotic agents and 
biological agents. Xenobiotic agents are those DMARDs that do not occur 
naturally in the body, as opposed to biologicals. Xenobiotics Xenobiotics include: gold salts D-penicillamine hydroxychloroquine sulfasalazine (SSZ) methotrexate (MTX) azathioprine cyclosporin A minocycline leflunomide The most important and most common adverse events relate to 
liver and bone marrow toxicity (MTX, SSZ, leflunomide, azathioprine, gold 
compounds, D-penicillamine), renal toxicity (cyclosporine A, parenteral gold 
salts, D-penicillamine), pneumonitis (MTX), allergic skin reactions (gold 
compounds, SSZ), autoimmunity (D-penicillamine, SSZ, minocycline) and infections 
(azathioprine, cyclosporine A). Hydroxychloroquine may cause ocular toxicity. Biological Agents for Rheumatoid Arthritis Biological agents include: tumor necrosis factor (TNF?) blockers - etanercept (Enbrel), 
  infliximab (Remicade), adalimumab (Humira) interleukin-1 blockers - anakinra Anti-Inflammatory Agents and Analgesics for Rheumatoid 
Arthritis Anti-inflammatory agents for Rheumatoid Arthritis include: glucocorticoids Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs, most also act 
  as analgesics) Analgesics include: acetaminophen opiates lidocaine topical Other Options for Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatment Other therapies for Rheumatoid Arthritis are weight loss , physiotherapy , joint 
injections, and special tools to improve hard movements (e.g. special 
tin-openers). Severely affected joints may require joint replacement surgery, 
such as knee replacement. By: The Medical Symptoms Database It is recommended that Transfer 
Factor Advanced formula to be used in autoimmune conditions . Transfer Factor Plus is generally preferred for 
conditions caused by infection. Transfer Factors suppress over acting immune system to ease autoimmune conditions. Free Yourself of the 
Swelling, Stiffness and Pain, and Live Your Life 150% Better by Banishing Your Arthritis in Just One Month! A thirty-five year arthritis sufferer myself, I 
will show you how I cured my arthritis in one month, threw away ALL of my 
medications and over-the-counter products, and stopped following strict diets 
for life! And I Challenge YOU To Do the Same Right Now! Transfer Factor Transfer Factor 
                                Science History 
                                of Transfer Factor Autoimmune 
                                Diseases | Immune Disorders Common Cold I nfluenza 
                                Information Bird Flu & Transfer Factor Migraine 
                                Headache Symptoms Migraine Headache Treatment Mono | Mononucleosis Tuberculosis Symptoms Tuberculosis Treatment Allergies 
                                Information Eczema 
                                Management Psoriasis 
                                Symptoms Shingles 
                                Symptoms Asthma 
                                Information Cancer and NK cells Bone Cancer 
                                Information Brain Tumor | 
                                Cancer Breast Cancer 
                                Symptoms Cervical Cancer Symptom Cervical Cancer Treatment Colon Cancer Symptom Colon Cancer 
                                Treatment Esophageal Cancer Leukemia 
                                Information Leukemia Virus Information Leukemia 
                                Treatment Liver Cancer 
                                Information Lung Cancer 
                                Symptoms Lymph Node 
                                Cancer Mesothelioma - 
                                Asbestos Lung Cancer Malignant 
                                Mesothelioma 1 Malignant 
                                Mesothelioma 2 Ovarian 
                                Cancer Symptoms Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic Cancer & Diabetes Prostate Cancer 
                                Information Skin Cancer 
                                Symptoms Stomach Cancer 
                                Symptoms Testicular 
                                Cancer Symptom Anemia 
                                Symptoms Diabetes Causes & Types Diabetes Symptoms Manage & Monitor 
                            Diabetes Diabetes & Pancreatic Cancer Dealing with Diabetes Hepatitis 
                                Symptoms Hepatitis A 
                                Information Hepatitis B 
                                Information Hepatitis C 
                                Information Graves Disease 
                                Symptoms Hashimoto 
                                Disease 1 Hashimoto Disease 2 Hyperthyroidism Symptoms Hypothyroid Symptoms Neutropenia 
                                Information Angina Symptom Information Angina 
                                Treatment Information High Blood 
                                Pressure Heart 
                                Attack Information Coronary Heart 
                                Disease Heart Attack Prevention Stroke Symptom Information High 
                                Blood Pressure & Stroke Hypertension and Stroke Acid Reflux 
                                Disease Celiac 
                                Disease Information Celiac Disease Treatment Crohn's 
                                Disease Symptom Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Fibromyalgia Information Lupus Disease 
                                Information Lupus Disease 
                                Study Results Myasthenia 
                                Gravis Information Osteoarthritis Symptoms Psoriatic 
                                Arthritis Information Rheumatoid 
                                Arthritis Info Anxiety Disorder 
                                Information Autism 
                                Symptoms Information Bipolar Disorder Information Bipolar 
                                Disorder Diagnosis 1 Bipolar 
                                Disorder Diagnosis 2 Depression 
                                Symptoms Depression Treatment 1 Depression Treatment 2 Schizophrenia Information Multiple 
                                Sclerosis Symptoms Menopause 
                                Information HRT Risks & Benefits HRT Research HRT and Breast Cancer Premarin Menopause 
                                Drug PMS and You Genital Herpes 
                                Information 1 Genital Herpes 
                                Information 2 Genital Herpes 
                                Information 3 HIV | 
                                AIDS Prevention Immune 
            System & Diseases Transfer Factor & Immune Function s Fibromyalgia Treatment The most scientifically 
            advanced and complete formula ever developed for the fight against Fibromyalgia! Joint Pain Relief Comprehensive support for joint 
            mobility and flexibility. Custom Search Site
                												Map Copyright © 2007
                										Indigo World Rheumatoid Arthritis treatment About Us | Test & Testimonials | Information | Free Service | Products | FAQ | Contact Us | Home Powered by WebRing