
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2012 14:46:33 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.startlivingtoday.co.uk/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cognitive Hypnotherapy in Southampton with Lenny Deverill-West Start Living Today Cognitive Hypnotherapy & NLP in Southampton Welcome About Lenny Blog Contact Me How I Can Help Phobia Definitions Why Cognitive Hypnotherapy Benefits of Cognitive Hypnotherapy & NLP Cognitive Hypnotherapy FAQs Hypnotherapy Links Find Cognitive Hypnotherapy Contact Lenny Start Living Today The Romeny Centre 61 The Avenue Southampton SO17 1XS Driving Directions Call: 07841411951 lenny@startlivingtoday.co.uk What People Have Said Increase Sports Performance The hypnotherapy that Lenny used gave me a basis to not only focus on the moment, but also to switch between concentration and “switching off”. I have since noticed both increased levels of concentration for longer periods and also an ability to put bad shots behind me. James - Professional Golfer Fear of Public Speaking After plucking up the courage to make the step to contact Lenny for help on my fear of public speaking, I told him how I was very sceptical about the whole thing, about what he could do to help. In fact, after the first session I felt empowered. I still get the nerves before speaking in public, but the sessions with Lenny have allowed me to control and manage them, to express myself as I know how. NB My Recent Blogs NLP and Hypnotherapy for Insomnia There are many reasons people suffer with insomnia and it can be extremely distressing for the person suffering with it.  Stress, worry, anxiety, and pain are common causes of insomnia... X Factor: Katie Waissel to use Hypnotherapy Overcome Stage Fright I regularly see clients for at my Southampton Hypnotherapy clinic for stage fright and fear of public speaking, so I wasn't surprised to the headline 'X Factor: Katie Waissel to have hypnotherapy in bid to beat stage fright' Stage fright and fear of public speaking is such a common barrier that people face.... Lets Talk About Context One the things I do when I first see a client is a history take. I have noticed over time that often when client’s come back to see me after the history take, they have already begun to move forward with their issue, goal, problem etc. How Do I Get The Relationship I Want? I'm often asked relationship questions like 'how do I get the relationship I want?', sometimes by people in relationships, so they might not be happy with the relationship they are in......... What Did You Create in 2010 I started training with the Trevor Silvester at the Quest Institute in Cognitive Hypnotherapy and one of the techniques we have learned on the course is what Trevor calls...... Have An Average Day Just wanted to recommend this wonderful tip from Michael Neill that looks set to go viral and become an event in its own right......... Nurturing Your Creativity A while back some collegues and I were ask to come up with a team building exercise incorporating Belbin's Team Roles, and I think it fair to say we embraced the opportunity.... Making A Difference One thing that has always struck me is the way different people describe their jobs and to be more specific the way people who are passionate and love their work verses those who are not. Now some Hypnotherapy Pages About Registered Southampton Hypnotherapist Lenny Deverill-West Blog Contact Me How I Can Help Phobia Definitions Welcome Why Cognitive Hypnotherapy How hypnotherapy and NLP can Help What is cognitive hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy Links Southampton Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy Chandlers Ford Hypnotherapy Eastleigh Hypnotherapy Fareham Hypnotherapy Hedge End Hypnotherapy Lyndhurst Hypnotherapy Romsey Hypnotherapy Southampton Hypnotherapy Totton Hypnotherapy Winchester Recent Posts The Black Box NLP and Hypnotherapy for Insomnia NLP on The BBC X Factor: Katie Waissel to use Hypnotherapy to Overcome Stage Fright Lets Talk About Context How Do I Get The Relationship I Want? What Did You Create 2010? Have An Average Day Nurturing Your Creativity! Making A Difference Cognitive Hypnotherapy in Southampton Cognitive Hypnotherapy in Southampton Start Living Today Cognitive Hypnotherapy and Neuro-linguistic Programming (NLP) in Southampton Welcome to Start Living Today Southampton’s premier hypnotherapy practice run by Lenny Deverill-West. Gone are the days of the black and white film characters with swinging pocket watches that some how put people into a trance. I use a new and effective brand of Cognitive Hypnotherapy that utilses the lastest developments in Neuro Science , Positive Psychology and Neuro-linguistic Programming to help you break unwanted habits, reduce stress, overcome phobia and fears, lose weight without dieting, gain confidence, beat depression and much more. How Hypnotherapy can help you Stop for a moment and think about what in your life would you change if you could? and just imagine what your life would be like, seeing what you would see, hearing what you would hear and feeling what you would feel………….If you’re like most people you probably allowed yourself to experience what that would be like for a split second and then thought ‘yeah right’. This is an example of the kind of barriers hypnotherapy can help you overcome so you can get what you want . What hypnosis is used for? Stop Smoking save money and lead a healthier life Weight loss , lose weight without dieting by changing your thoughts, feelings and beliefs about food. Overcoming Depression and Anxiety symptoms using effective relaxation methods and therapeutic techniques that improve the way you think Treating Panic Attacks and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) incorporating a modern understanding of how these conditions occur to reverse the effects. Stress , improving the way you think to reduce stress and improve your life Control and get rid of unwanted habits e.g. Biting Nails, Negative thinking using NLP and Cognitive Techniques Sports Performance , improving sports performance by eliminating psychological barriers to get the winning edge over your competitors Overcome Fear of Public Speaking , using powerful associative conditioning techniques and hypnotic techniques that change the way you think about public speaking so you can perform the way you want. What is Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy? Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy is the perfectly safe use of the natural state of trance, it’s a bit like day dreaming, or when driving a car and finding you have no recollection how you arrived at your destination. Everyone experiences trance states on a daily basis and by inducing one of these relaxing states using Cognitive Hypnotherapy, your unconscious mind can be reprogrammed to change all kinds of issues. Does Hypnotherapy Work? People often ask does hypnotherapy work, and the truth is no one can guarantee a 100% success rate, yet Hypnotherapy has been passed several trials for irritable bowel syndrome, asthma, backache and has received support from the organisations below. “Hypnotherapy is supported by more scientific research than any other complementary therapy”. (The Which? Guide to Complementary Therapies, 2002). On April 23, 1955, the British Medical Association (BMA) approved the use of hypnosis in the areas of psychoneuroses and hypnoanesthesia in pain management in childbirth and surgery. At this time, the BMA also advised all physicians and medical students to receive fundamental training in hypnosis. (Source Wikipedia) The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) provides guidance and makes recommendations to the NHS, said the following in relation to people suffering with IBS and Hypnotherapy. “Hypnotherapy and/or psychological therapy should be considered for people with IBS” (Link to NICE Report ) Why Choose Cognitive Hypnotherapy? You might be thinking why I should choose Cognitive Hypnotherapy? Cognitive Hypnotherapy is different from traditional or clinical types of hypnotherapy which tend to use set ways of treating conditions. ‘Cognitive Hypnotherapy’ uses a basic understanding of the brain and it’s interactions with people’s individual thought processes.  This method focuses on treating individuals as oppose to the problem that a person may have been labelled with. This small difference in it’s self moves people away from old ways of thinking and begins to open the door of possibility in your life. A Bespoke Approach To Hypnotherapy As a Cognitive Hypnotherapist I know each person’s perceptions and experience are different so I don’t use any prepared scripts or one size fits all treatments. I understand that for consistent results a bespoke approach is needed. I prefer to listen careful to ‘what is currently going on’ for a person and what they would like to change so I can create a tailored targeted treatment to produce excellent results in the minimum amout of time. How Much Does Hypnotherapy Cost? My Cognitive Hypnotherapy sessions with you cost £50.  The first usually lasts for 90 minutes, and subsequent ones 60-75 minutes.  My guarantee is that, after our first session, if either of us doesn’t think I can help you, the session is free. Cognitive Hypnotherapy is reassuringly priced because it tends to work quicker than other therapies. Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy I don’t charge any extra for Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy sessions because I treat every client that comes to my Southampton Hypnotherapy Clinic on an individual basis, and stopping smoking is no different. Also, as well as helping you lead a healthier life, hypnotherapy for stopping smoking offers great value for money as most people recoup the cost of the treatment within a couple months of stopping. Professional Hypnotherapy Standards I am registered with the National Hypnotherapy Council (NCH) who are a reputable organisation with professional standards. As member of the National Council of Hypnotherapy I adhere to their strict code of ethics that cover standards such as client welfare, confidentiality, service, therapist skill level, advertising and general conduct. Hypnotherapy & NLP Training I have trained professionally as an NLP Practitioner with the UK College of Personal Development (UKCPD) and gained a Diploma in Cognitive Hypnotherapy at the home of Cognitive Hypnotherapy with The Quest Institute . I continue to train with some of the best trainers within the industry, so I am current with the latest therapeutic approaches. Why not consider coming to my hypnotherapy practice in Southampton at the Romney Centre . I’d love to hear from you whether it’s to book a hypnotherapy appointment or a free informal chat, I’m happy to be of service to you any way I can. Contact Me Phone: 07841411951 Email: lenny@startlivingtoday.co.uk Where To Find Me The Romney Centre 61 The Avenue Southampton, Hampshire SO17 1XS 07841 411 951 By Car: Directions to the Romney Centre – or set your SatNav to navigate to postcode SO17 1XS. Parking is available at the rear of the Romney Centre . By Bus The Unilink bus 1C stops at 50 metres from the Romney, on the opposite side of the road and the Unilink bus 1A stops at 50 metres from the clinic. View Larger Map Hypnotherapy Chandlers Ford | Hypnotherapy Eastleigh | Hypnotherapy Fareham | Hypnotherapy Hedge End | Hypnotherapy Lyndhurst | Hypnotherapy Romsey | Hypnotherapy Southampton | Hypnotherapy Totton | Hypnotherapy Winchester Contact Us | Terms of Use | Trademarks | Privacy Statement www.startlivingtoday.co.uk | lenny@startlivingtoday.co.uk | Tel 07841411951 Copyright © 2010 All Rights Reserved. Powe