Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 13 Sep 2011 14:51:19 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "4b5dc3982472cc1:230b9"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 07:32:54 GMT
Connection: close

Acupuncture Ambassadors Home Who We Are What We Do Treatment Training Education Get Involved Donate Global Humanitarian Activity Gallery Calendar Iyashi Collection Contact Training The Acupuncture Ambassadors Acupuncture Technician  Basic Training Certification Course In areas of the  world where there are no existing diploma or master’s degree acupuncture  school, Acupuncture Ambassadors (ACUAMB) can implement an Acupuncture  Technician Basic Training Certification Course. The ACUAMB Acupuncture Technician Basic Training  Certification Course will limit the Acupuncture Technician to perform 5  treatment protocols that will cover a multitude of general aliments including  emotional trauma, addictions, general and specific pain issues, digestive &  respiratory ailments, immunity, preventative care and wellness. In general, daily stress, anxiety and  environmental toxicity are the cause of 70-80% of all illness of the body and  mind. When acupuncture is used as an ongoing treatment, the levels of stress  hormones are greatly reduced and the body is able to heal many of its on issues  without other medical interventions. The protocols have been chosen  specifically because they effectively treat numerous health issues and reduce  the release of stress hormones leading to better general health. They are  minimally invasive which is so important for the safety of the patient. They  are also in general not difficult to learn for the students. In addition to  these protocols, the students will be taught about fundamental anatomy and  acupuncture theory. This will serve as the foundation for future in-depth study  to becoming fully trained acupuncturists. The 6 Protocols taught: 1) The  NADA-Plus Protocol for Addictions, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), pain,  respiratory, digestive and cardiac issues. A 6 point auricular (ear) protocol. 2) The  Battlefield Acupuncture Protocol for acute and chronic pain, insomnia, stress.  A 6 point auricular (ear) acupuncture protocol. 3) Dr.  Lee's Great Ten Needles Protocol for general wellness, fatigue, immunity,  digestive issues, preventative care. Body acupuncture points. 4) Adrenal  / Trauma Treatment: Protocol for old, deep seated as well as recent trauma. 3  bi-lateral, acupuncture body points 5) Moxabustion (Moxa) for Immunity (especially for immune compromised HIV and AIDS patients), digestive disorders and wellness. Leg acupuncture points. 6) Shonishin: a  non-invasive, energy balancing therapy utilizing non-inserted tools and  techniques originally designed for treating infants, young children and older  adults. Conditions treated range from emotionally related imbalances to acute  and chronic conditions. Note: In countries that have laws preventing non-medical doctors from performing acupuncture with auricular (ear) or body needles, needle-less ear seed or magnet methods are taught and strictly abided by. Sterilization training is emphasized and all needles and ear / magnet seeds used are one-use only and are destroyed after patient treatment (use) so not to be applied again in future treatments. After completing the three-week basic acupuncture technician training course, there will be a two-week follow-up supervision and training every 4 -5 mo