
Pediatric Dentistry Gold River CA, Childrens Dentist Gold River Children's Dentistry in Gold River CA The Pediatric Dentists at Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics can treat all of your Childrens' dental needs including Early Childhood Dental Care , Cavity Prevention and Orthodontics . Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics has had the privilege of serving the children of Sacramento and surrounding communities in northern California for over thirty years. Weideman Pediatric Dentists in Citrus Heights are conveniently located near Gold River CA. PEDIATRIC DENTISTRY Gold River CA Pediatric Dentistry has never been better. Pediatric Dental Treatment is important for beautiful smiles and healthy teeth. The doctors at Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics provide complete Pediatric care including: Why a Pediatric Dentist? Toothbrushing & Flossing Early Childhood Tooth Decay Adolescents & Oral Care Special Needs Patients Nutrition & Healthy Foods Guide Orthodontics Childrens Dentistry Frequently Asked Questions Cavity Prevention Tooth Loss Sealants Mouth Protectors Gum Disease Dental Emergencies Our children's dental office is committed to providing children with board certified dental care in a positive and friendly environment. Dental Sealants Gold River CA Dental Sealants help in preventing tooth decay by adding a protective coating to  teeth. In many cases, it is near impossible for children to clean the tiny deep and narrow grooves on the chewing surface of their teeth. When a sealant is applied, the surface of the tooth is somewhat flatter and smoother. Call our doctors to schedule an appointment for dental sealants. Dr. Weideman provides dental sealants to Gold River and surrounding areas. First Visit Gold River CA Plan your child's first visit to the dentist. It is important that your child be allowed to become familiar with our office environment and staff as soon as their teeth start to appear, as young as six months old. We teach your child to be comfortable with dentistry by explaining the procedures and demonstrating the equipment in a fun and imaginative way. We conclude the first visit with an office tour. Board Certified Specialists in Pediatric Dentistry and Infant Oral Health. Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics is located in Citrus Heights, CA. Call us! (916) 962-0577. > Map to our office > Meet our pediatric dentists > What is pediatric dentistry? > Infant Oral Health > Children with special needs Online Map & Driving Directions to our Office: Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics If this is the first time you have visited our office, the mapping service below will assist you in finding our location. Simply fill out the form below, and you will be presented with directions that include a map, the travel time, and distance. If you need any additional information, please contact our office at 916-962-0577. Enter Starting Address Country: United States Canada Address & Phone Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics 7916 Pebble Beach Drive, Suite 101 Citrus Heights, CA 95610 Phone: 916-962-0577 Fax: 916-962-0584 Pediatric Dentistry Locations Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics provides Childrens Dentistry to the following communities: Rocklin , Roseville , Fair Oaks , Folsom , Carmichael , Sacramento , C itrus Heights, Antelope , Gold River, Granite Bay, Orangevale and Rancho Cordova . Home | Welcome | Meet Our Pediatric Dentists | Patient Information | You & Your Baby | Kids Fun & Links Pediatric Dentistry Citrus Heights / Sacramento CA | Request an Appointment | Directions to Our Citrus Heights CA Office | Sitemap Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics, 7916 Pebble Beach Drive, Ste. 101, Citrus Heights, California 95610 | (916) 962 - 0577 Weideman Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics Proudly accepting Patients from the California communities of Sacramento , Citrus Heights , including Antelope , Cameron Park, Carmichael CA , El Dorado Hills CA, Elk Grove, Elverta, Fair Oaks CA , Folsom CA , 
          Foothill Farms, Gold River , Granite Bay , Lincoln, Loomis, Natomas, North Highlands, Orangevale CA, Rancho Cordova , Rancho Murieta, Rio Linda, Rockli