
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:14:42 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Last-Modified: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:14:42 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-type: text/html

Health Conditions | Diabetes | Cinnamon Lowers High Blood Sugar | Bastyr Center for Natural Health Home Health Information Health Care Services Our Providers Patient Care Dispensaries News and Events Overview Health Conditions and Concerns Conditions A-M Conditions N-Z Healthy Lifestyle Tips Healthy & Wise Newsletter Bastyr Health-E News News and Events Recommended Reading List Recipes National and Community Resources Cinnamon Lowers High Blood Sugar A Healthnotes Newswire Opinion People with diabetes might be able to reduce their blood sugar by using a cinnamon extract, a new study has found. The number of people being diagnosed with adult-onset (type 2) diabetes has grown to about 150 million people worldwide, with more than 17 million in the United States. People with diabetes have high blood sugar levels because their cells don’t respond to insulin, the hormone that signals when glucose (the form sugar takes in the blood) needs to be stored. Over time, the extra glucose in the blood damages tissues. Eating a high-fiber, low-sugar diet and exercising are important ways to keep blood glucose levels normal. Oral medications are also often used to reduce blood glucose levels, and in some cases insulin injections are necessary. Nutritionally oriented healthcare providers frequently recommend minerals such as chromium and magnesium. Some herbs such as gymnema and fenugreek have been found to have blood glucose–lowering effects. Cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia) is an aromatic herb with sweet and warming qualities. Its history as a medicinal herb goes back centuries in India and other parts of Asia, but it is better known in the Western world as a culinary spice. Animal studies and preliminary studies in humans have suggested that cinnamon has blood glucose–lowering effects that could help people with type 2 diabetes. In the latest study, published in the European Journal of Clinical Investigation , 65 people with diabetes being treated only with diet or oral medications (not insulin) were given either a cinnamon extract (equivalent to 3 grams of cinnamon per day) or a placebo for four months. Fasting blood glucose levels (measured after eight or more hours without eating or drinking) dropped 10% in those who used the cinnamon, but did not change in the placebo group. Blood glucose levels decreased the most in those who had the highest levels at the beginning of the study. “More and more people are being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, and many of them want to avoid oral medications and especially insulin injections,” said Linda Dacey, MD, who practices internal medicine. “Although the findings from this study are encouraging, for now it seems wise to wait until future research clarifies whether cinnamon works well enough to be used as a first-line treatment, along with diet and exercise, or whether it should be used in conjunction with oral medications.” In the meantime, cinnamon is a safe and inexpensive addition to a program designed to help manage high blood sugar from diabetes. ( Eur J Clin Invest 2006;36:340–4) August 17, 2006 Maureen Williams, ND , received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania and her Doctorate of Naturopathic Medicine from Bastyr University in Seattle, WA. She has a private practice in Quechee, VT, and does extensive work with traditional herbal medicine in Guatemala and Honduras. Dr. Williams is a regular contributor to Healthnotes Newswire . Copyright © 2006 Healthnotes, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of the Healthnotes® content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Healthnotes, Inc. Healthnotes Newswire is for educational or informational purposes only, and is not intended to diagnose or provide treatment for any condition. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a healthcare professional. Healthnotes, Inc. shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. HEALTHNOTES and the Healthnotes logo are registered trademarks of Healthnotes, Inc. Diabetes » Barley Fiber Improves Blood Sugar Control » Acai Extract Might Maintain Metabolism » Managing Diabetes? Nuts Provide Health-Promoting Fats » Aerobic Exercise Beats Weight Training in Disease Prevention » Resveratrol from Grapes May Regulate Blood Sugar » Broccoli Sprouts Bolster Battle Against Type 2 Diabetes » Giving Vitamin K the Respect It Deserves » Bastyr’s Diabetes and Cardiovascular Wellness Clinic: Strategies for Success » "Diabetes-Friendly" Defined » Type 2 Diabetes Risk: Carb Quality Counts » Processed Meat Increases Heart Disease, Diabetes Risk » Herbal Help for Diabetic Blood Sugar Control » Genes Do Not Equal a Diabetic Destiny » Joy for Java Drinkers: Coffee May Keep Diabetes at Bay » Manage Diabetes Better with a Mediterranean Diet » The Heart Loves Nuts » Follow Dietary Guidelines to Prevent Unhealthy Belly Fat » Fishing for a Way to Control Diabetes Damage » Focus on Food to Defeat Diabetes » Eat Your C for Better Health » Drink Less Sugar to Dodge Diabetes » The Sunshine Vitamin May Relieve Diabetic Pain » Vitamin K May Improve Insulin Resistance » Chocolately Good Diabetes Care » Antioxidants Improve Diabetes Complication » Get Moving and Eat Right to Lower Diabetes Risk » Natural Blood Sugar Control » Important Foot Care for People with Diabetes » 10 Power Foods to Beat Diabetes » People with Diabetes Do Better on a Vegan Diet » Parents: Eating Omega-3s May Prevent Type 1 Diabetes » Chromium Plus Biotin Helps Diabetic Blood Sugar » Manage Diabetes Better with Exercise » Cutting Red Meat Spares Diabetic Kidneys » People with Diabetes: Keep Blood Pressure in Check with Hawthorn » Psyllium Improves Blood Sugar Control » Natural Risk Reduction for Diabetes Complication » Cinnamon Lowers High Blood Sugar » Traditional Herbs Help Men with Diabetes » Diabetes and Cardiovascular Wellness Program » Vinegar Lowers Blood Sugar » Reduce Cholesterol in People with or without Diabetes » Improve Heart Health in Type 2 Diabetics » Supplement Relieves Diabetic Nerve Pain » Cold Potatoes and Blood Glucose Levels » Soft Drinks’ Effect on Weight Gain, Diabetes » Vitamin D and Diabetes Prevention » Control Blood Sugar with Herbal Supplement » Ginger Improves Digestion: Benefits for Type 2 Diabetics » Soy Protein and Type 2 Diabetes » Grains May Increase Risk of Childhood Onset Diabetes » Glucosamine Safe for Diabetics » Magnesium Deficiency and Insulin-Resistance Syndrome » Maggot Therapy Speeds Healing of Diabetic Foot Ulcers » Multiple Vitamin Prevents Infections in Diabetics » Vitamin C May Aid People with Diabetes » Nuts Reduce Risk of Diabetes in Women » Whole Grains Reduce Type 2 Diabetes in Men » Herbal Treatment for Type 2 Diabetes » Nightlight Helps Prevent Blindness in Diabetics » Diet, Lifestyle Modifications Prevent Diabetes » Vitamin D for Infants Protects Against Diabetes » The Truth About Diabetes » The Carbohydrate Conundrum » How Much Sugar is in Your Diet? » Tips for Substituting With Natural Sweeteners » Make the Switch to Alternative Sweeteners » Cold Potatoes & Blood Glucose » 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | Want to find the provider that's right for you?
								Learn more about our health
								care providers. » We offer several types of health care services. To
					schedule an appointment, call us today. » The health information contained in this site is not
				intended as medical advice and should not be considered a substitute
				for appropriate medical care. Any products mentioned in studies cited
				in Healthnotes articles are not necessarily endorsed by Bastyr. As
				with any product, consult with a natural health practitioner to discuss
				what may be best for you. Submit a contact request or call us to schedule an appointment » Natural medicine can treat many types of conditions including: Allergies » Respiratory Disorders » Digestion » Chronic pain » Fatigue » Headaches » Depression » More treatable health conditions » Interested in finding a provider who's right for you? We recommend that your first visit at BCNH be with a Naturopathic Medicine Provider. » Home | Health Information | Health Care Services | Our Providers | Patient Care | Dispensaries About BCNH | Contact Us | Appointments | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Bastyr University Bastyr Center for Natural Health | 3670 Stone Way N., Seattle, Washington 98103 | Appointments & Inform