Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://www.healingtherapies.info/diapulse.htm
Last-Modified: Sun, 16 Jan 2011 00:09:55 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "a33b9db411b5cb1:ea78"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 08:02:30 GMT
Connection: close

Diapulse [ Home ] [ Therapies ] Diapulse ® Electromagnetic Therapy for Spinal Cord Injury, Head Injury, & Pressure 
      Sores Laurance Johnston, 
      Ph.D. & James Kelly Other articles posted on this website discuss how 
      electromagnetic energy can treat various ailments relevant to physical 
      disability. This article specifically discusses the use of Diapulse, a device that directs a pulsed-electromagnetic field (PEMF) to an area of 
      injury. Animal and human studies indicate that this treatment soon after 
      spinal cord injury (SCI) protects neurons, promotes regeneration, and 
      minimizes lost function. The 
      therapy has been also proven to reduce cerebral edema and mortality after 
      traumatic head injury and accelerate the healing of disability-associated 
      pressure sores. Modern medicine focuses on the anatomical and 
      biochemical (i.e., the physical), ignoring, until recently, the body’s 
      less-understood electromagnetic nature. As underscored by Albert 
      Einstein’s famous E= mc 2 equation, however, the physical never 
      exists without energy, and each influences the other. Every molecule in 
      our body emits an electromagnetic field, and because each cell - and, in 
      turn, each organ - is an aggregation of such molecules, they too are 
      electromagnetic. There is no tissue in which this fact is more evident 
      than our nervous system, which functions by routing electromagnetic 
      impulses throughout our body via our spinal cord. Hence, attempts to fix 
      an injured cord through physical means will be enhanced by working with 
      and - not against - its electromagnetic nature. DESCRIPTION: Diapulse directs electromagnetic energy to a specific 
      body area, even through clothing, casts, or bandages, via a cylindrical treatment head mounted on an adjustable bracket. The 
      technology does not cause side effects or require patient 
      involvement. Because the device pulses its electromagnetic output, it emits energy for only a fraction of 
      time, allowing any heat associated with the transferred energy to 
      dissipate. Diapulse’s electromagnetic output is often pulsed at 600 pulses 
      per second with each pulse lasting 65 microseconds (1 second = 1million 
      microseconds). Hence, this pulse rate corresponds to the device being off 
      25 times longer than it is on. HISTORY: The Diapulse prototype 
      was developed in the early 1930s by physician Abraham Ginsberg and 
      physicist Arthur Milinowski, who reported their i nitial 
      clinical experience and animal research with the device to the 1934 & 1940 
      New York Academy of Medicine. Because the technology behind the device was 
      used to develop radar, the device’s emergence as a healing modality was 
      delayed due to World War II security concerns. Research was resumed in 
      the 1950s by the military’s Tri-Service Research Program, which after 
      extensive studies concluded that the device was safe and effective. About this time, the driving force behind Diapulse 
      shifted from Ginsburg to Dr. Jesse Ross, a biophysicist, whose impressive 
      background includes professional associations with Einstein and being one 
      of the founders of the prestigious Bioelectromagnetic Society and a NASA 
      consultant. Ross created the Diapulse Corporation of America (Great Neck, 
      NY), developing a collaboration with Remington Rand to produce the device. 
      To further assess the device’s healing potential, Ross then launched 
      ambitious research with universities and clinicians around the world. One famous customer was former President Harry 
      Truman, who rented the device in 1966. Over time, Diapulse was adopted as a treatment in 
      various areas of medicine throughout the world; in this country, it is 
      approved by the FDA for treatment of post-operative swelling and pain. DIAPULSE STUDIES: Numerous studies support Diapulse’s potential to 
      treat neurologically associated problems and exert neuroprotective and 
      -regenerative influences. After nervous-system injury, Diapulse helps to 
      restore the membrane potential (concentration difference of charged 
      solutes between the cell inside and outside) necessary to ensure cell 
      survival and to enhance recovery-promoting blood flow. Blood Flow: Dr. W. Erdman 
      (Philadelphia, 1960) demonstrated that Diapulse increases systemic blood 
      flow without elevating pulse rate or blood pressure. This effect is most 
      likely due to the ability of Diapulse-generated fields to induce cells to 
      align in a pearl-chain fashion. When the device was turned off, the cells 
      reassumed a random distribution. With such a pearl-chain alignment, blood 
      cells can more efficiently pass through a given vascular space, like cars 
      traveling in the same direction on parallel lanes instead of “bumper” 
      cars. As in all injuries, the 
      rate of blood flow affects recovery after SCI. Specifically, the injury to 
      the cord compromises blood flow, which, as a consequence, aggravates 
      neurological damage. The importance of this issue was emphasized in a 
      recent SCI conference where Dr. H. Crock (London, UK), probably the 
      world’s foremost expert on spinal cord circulation, stressed that blood 
      flow is the primary factor that needs to be addressed after SCI (insert 
      link). Given Diapulse’s ability to enhance blood-flow, it is not 
      surprising that studies indicate that it promotes healing after SCI. Animal Studies: The first scientists to 
      focus on Diapulse’s neuronal regeneration properties were Drs. D. Wilson 
      and P. Jagadeesh (Leeds, UK, 1975). After demonstrating that the device 
      stimulates regeneration in rats with peripheral nerve injuries (i.e., 
      those outside of the brain and spinal cord), they examined its effects on 
      cats whose spinal cords were half cut (hemicordotomy). Three months after 
      hemicordotomy, compared to controls, Diapulse improved functional 
      recovery, reduced scar formation and adhesions, increased the number of 
      axons transversing the injury site, and promoted the integration of 
      peripheral nerve grafts that had been inserted to bridge the lesion. Drs. A. Raji and R. 
      Bowden (London, UK, 1983) also demonstrated that Diapulse enhances 
      regeneration and remyelination of rat peripheral nerves after transection. Because surgeons are 
      beginning to use peripheral nerve tissue to bridge spinal cord lesions in 
      human, Diapulse’s ability to accelerate regeneration in peripheral tissue 
      also has important therapeutic implications for SCI. Dr. Wise Young (New 
      York, 1984) showed that Diapulse reduces calcium at the injury site in 
      cats injured through impact, (an injury that resembles most human SCI). 
      Because calcium causes secondary neuronal cell death, this 
      Diapulse-induced reduction lessened neurological damage and, in turn, 
      preserved function. Specifically, Young 
      reported that 1) the majority of Diapulse-treated cats were walking four 
      months after surgery compared to none in the control group and 2) that the 
      device was superior to treatment with the steroid methylprednisolone, now 
      considered a post-injury treatment standard. SCI Human Studies: Dr. M. Weiss, et al (Warsaw, Poland) carried out a promising SCI study in 1980 . Weiss, who interestingly was funded by the 
      U.S. Veterans Administration for developing another innovative SCI 
      approach, arranged for acutely injured patients to be picked up by 
      helicopter and brought to Warsaw where they were treated with Diapulse. Of 
      the 97 treated patients, 38 had pronounced neurological improvement; of 
      these, 28 had substantial functional gains, and 18 were discharged with 
      only slight impairment of the extremities. Although this preliminary study l acked 
      controls, these are impressive statistics, which, at minimum, warrant 
      study replication. Unfortunately, because Weiss died soon after publishing 
      these initial results, combined with post-communism social upheaval, this 
      promising research was not continued. Dr. W. Ellis (1987) 
      anecdotally noted that PEMF given for pain in patients with chronic SCI 
      resulted in sensory or motor improvement in 7 of 13 patients. Ellis 
      hypothesized that these fields can normalize viable but dysfunctional 
      neuronal structures. In another posted article, a surgical procedure was 
      discussed in which olfactory tissue was transplanted into the injury site 
      of individuals with chronic SCI to restore function. Working with the lead 
      surgeon Dr. C. Lima (Portugal), Ross treated two Americans with 
      quadriplegia with Diapulse several days before and after surgery to 
      promote neuronal regeneration. Head Injury: In large clinical 
      trials, Dr. M. Sambasivan (India, 1993) showed that Diapulse therapy 
      reduces cerebral edema and mortality after traumatic-brain-injury. SCI Pressure Sores: In 1991, the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association 
      gave several Diapulse devices to a nearby VA hospital to treat 
      SCI-associated pressure sores, and, in turn, funded a double-blind study by Dr. C. A. 
      Salzberg et al (Valhalla, NY, 1995) which showed that Diapulse-treated patients with such sores healed on average in 13 
      compared to 31.5 days for controls. (See 
      testimonial letter below) CONCLUSION: Compelling evidence indicates that Diapulse-generated 
      pulsed electromagnetic fields exert neuroprotective and -regenerative 
      influences when administered soon after SCI. Although its true SCI 
      therapeutic potential still needs to be determined, if Diapulse 
      represented a more familiar pharmaceutical approach, the biomedical 
      research community would be elated given this amount of positive 
      preliminary evidence and pushing it to the forefront for further scrutiny 
      instead of letting it languish on the sidelines. Our neglect may have 
      adversely affected the many of those currently living with SCI. For the 
      sake of all those who sustain a SCI in the future, let’s once and for all 
      objectively evaluate its healing potential. James Kelly is a SCI research writer and “pro-cures” 
      advocate from Granbury, TX. Diapulse Corporation of can be reached at 321 East 
      Shore Road, Great Neck 11023. Phone 516-466-3030. www.diapulse.com Adapted from “Paraplegia News” June 2003 (For
        subscriptions, contact www.pn-magazine.com REFERENCES Ellis, W., Pulsed Subcutaneous Electrical Stimulation 
          in Spinal Cord Injury, Bioelectromagnetics , 1987; 8(2): 
          159-164. Erdman, WJ, Peripheral Blood Flow Measurements During 
          Application of Pulsed High Frequency Currents, American Journal of 
          Orthopedics , August 1960. Raji, ARM & Bowden REM, Effects of High-Peak Pulsed 
          Electromagnetic Field on the Degeneration and Regeneration of the 
          Common Peroneal Nerve in Rats, The Journal of Bone and Joint 
          Surgery , 1983; 65-B(4): 478-492. Kiwerski, J, & Chrostowska, T (Weiss, M), Clinical 
          Trials of the Application of Pulsating Electromagnetic Energy 
          (Diapulse) in the Treatment of Spinal Cord Lesions, Chir. Narz. 
          Ortop, Pot , 1980; 45(3):273-277. Salzber, CA et al., The effects of Non-Thermal Pulsed 
          Electromagnetic Energy (Diapulse) on Wound Healing of Pressure Ulcers 
          in Spinal Cord-Injured Patients: A Randomized, Double-Blind Study, Wounds , 1995; 7(1): 11-16. Sambasivan, M, Pulsed Electromagnetic Field in 
          Management of Head Injuries, Neurology India , 1993; 41 (suppl): 
          56-59. Wilson, DH & Jagadeesh, P, Experimental Regeneration 
          in Peripheral Nerves and the Spinal Cord in Laboratory Animals Exposed 
          to a Pulsed Electromagnetic Field, Paraplegia 1976; 14:12-20. Young, W, Koreh, & I. Ransohoff,  Pulsed 
          Electromagnetic Fields Alter Tissue Calcium Accumulation, Presentation to an APA 1983 Workshop . Young W, Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields (Diapulse) 
          Alter Calcium in Spinal Cord Injury, Presentation to American 
          Paralysis Association Meeting, May 20 th , 1984, San 
          Francisco, CA . Young, W, Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields Alter Calcium 
          in Spinal Cord Injury,. The Society of Neurological Surgeons, April 
          25-28, 1984 DIAPULSE PRESSURE SORE TREATMENT 
        TESTIMONIAL I was delighted to 
          see the article in this month's PVA.  My husband was a T8 para.  In 
          1996 while living in the Minneapolis, MN area, he developed a severe 
          decubitius ulcer of the coccyx, and it progressed to stage 4 (into the 
          bone) before anything much was done about it. We moved to Arizona, 
          and he had home health care for almost three years, yet the wound 
          continued.  Health care professionals took the approach of packing and 
          probing with no success.  Finally, a new wound care specialist took 
          time to do a lot of research and came up with the idea of using the 
          Diapulse.  Medicare refused to fund the cost, but our supplement paid 
          the cost of $98.00 per day for eight weeks.  The wound was 
          approximately 4 centimeters deep and quite large in diameter.  It was 
          absolutely amazing, after eight weeks of 4 times a day, the wound 
          healed completely.  My husband did not experience another wound until 
          his last hospitalization in Sept. of 2002. I found it astonishing that none of the doctors or plastic surgeons 
          had ever heard of this product.  In fact my husband was at Mayo 
          Hospital Clinic in Phoenix, and I discussed it with the health care 
          personnel there and they had never heard of it either.  Diapulse needs 
          to do some sweeping advertising to the medical field, as it is indeed 
