
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.0.0
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:34:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17

Sinus Problems Articles: Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Services of Central NY 19 Kellogg Rd, New Hartford, NY 13413 Telephone: (315) 601-6187 Chinese Medicine - Alternative Healthcare for Picture Perfect Health Home | Sinus Problems July 30, 2010 Yintang:  An Extraordinary Acupuncture Point One of the most famous and most commonly used acupuncture points on the body is named Yintang, or Hall of Impression.  This point lies midway between the medial end of the eyebrows, in the area designated by many cultures as the “third eye”. Many first time acupuncture patients look at me a little trepidly when I tell them that we are going to put a needle here on their face.  This point is actually the first point that I had to practice needling as an acupuncture student, so I can assure you that it is in no way uncomfortable or dangerous. Continue reading this entry on Sinus Problems » Posted by Joyce Marley at 01:29 PM | Yintang:  An Extraordinary Acupuncture Point June 05, 2010 What Does Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Treat? When I was a first year student in my TCM training, in my enthusiasm and eagerness to apply what I was learning to my future patients, I would approach my professors and say, for example, “can Chinese medicine treat fibromyalgia?”  Or, “can Chinese medicine treat multiple sclerosis?”  Every time, I would get the same response - “what are the signs and symptoms?” We are talking about a system of medicine that has been around for thousands of years.  There really is no frame of reference in Chinese medicine to the Western disease labels that have evolved in modern times.  Chinese medicine will always look at everything going on in the body and determine an imbalance of yin and  yang, Qi and Blood.  In fact, there is a very famous saying in Chinese medicine - “one disease, many treatments...many diseases, one treatment.” What I love about “The Treatment of Modern Western Medical Diseases with Chinese Medicine”, co-authored by Bob Flaws and Philippe Sionneau, is the detailed analysis of 72 different Western medicine labels and all the patterns of imbalance that are usually associated with them in Chinese medicine.  For each of the diseases there is information on the Western etiology, treatment and prognosis.  And then a detailed analysis of the disease mechanisms from a Chinese medicine aspect.  Acupuncture and herbal treatments are suggested based on pattern discrimination.  Summary remarks address the prognosis from a Chinese medicine point of view. Continue reading this entry on Sinus Problems » Posted by Joyce Marley at 05:23 AM | What Does Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Treat? February 11, 2007 Tongue Diagnosis in Chinese Medicine Tongue diagnosis is an integral part of taking a medical history in Chinese medicine. Giavanni Macciocia, a renowned acupuncturist and herbalist from the United Kingdom, in my opinion, has compiled the most complete reference available to English speaking practitioners with his book "Tongue Diagnosis in Chinese Medicine" .His book was one of the first that I purchased as an acupuncture student and remains an invaluable reference in my practice today. In Chinese medicine, disease is explained by an imbalance of yin and yang and heat and cold in the human body.  Chinese medicine believes that chronic imbalances will have a definite impact on the color and shape of the tongue body and the color and thickness of the tongue coating. Continue reading this entry on Sinus Problems » Posted by Joyce Marley at 09:41 AM | Tongue Diagnosis in Chinese Medicine June 30, 2006 What Can Acupuncture Treat? The World Health Organization has recognized over 40 common health problems that acupuncture can effectively treat. Most people are aware that acupuncture treats pain, but many do not know the wide range of painful conditions that are commonly improved with acupuncture. Acupuncture treats pain anywhere in the body, including but not limited to: back pain, frozen shoulder, carpal tunnel syndrome, TMJ, trigeminal neuralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, sciatica, plantar fasciitis, shingles pain and migraines. But acupuncture can also treat digestive disorders such as nausea, acid reflux and irritable bowel syndrome. It is commonly used to treat asthma and sinus problems. Acupuncture is very powerful to treat gynecological problems including PMS, menopausal symptoms, endometriosis and even infertility. Continue reading this entry on Sinus Problems » Posted by Webmaster at 04:00 PM | What Can Acupuncture Treat? Home | Meet Joyce | Try It! | In the News | Brochure | Location | Contact | Disclaimer | Article Index Basic Theory | Book Reviews | Common Questions | Health A-Z | Nutrition Therapy | Testimonials Copyright ©2006 Acupuncture Services of Central New York Alternative Health Care for the  Whitesboro, Clinton, 
      