
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 07 May 2012 21:34:36 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Quit smoking with hypnotherapy Free Directory List Submit Link Submit Article Latest Links Advanced Search Contact Free Link Directory 101 Dirlist - Fast Approval SEO Free Friendly Web Directory Article Details Top Categories Arts & Humanities Blogs Business & Economy Computers & Internet Directories Education Entertainment Health News & Media Recreation & Sports Reference Science and Technology Shopping Society Friendly Links Webdirectorys Free Dirlist99 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist98 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist97 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist96 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist95 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist94 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist93 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist92 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist91 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist90 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist89 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist88 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist87 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist86 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist85 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist84 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist83 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist82 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist81 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist80 Statistics Free Directory List Ads Webdirectorys Free Dirlist99 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist98 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist97 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist96 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist95 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist94 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist93 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist92 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist91 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist90 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist89 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist88 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist87 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist86 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist85 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist84 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist83 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist82 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist81 Webdirectorys Free Dirlist80 Quit smoking with hypnotherapy Date Added: February 15, 2012 08:53:18 AM Author: Kartherine Maslen Category: Health Here is some information on whether or not hypnotherapy would be a good way for you to give up your smoking habit. You have probably tried lots of other techniques with mixed success. So why would hypnotherapy work when other methods have not?
We have to start by saying Hypnotherapy will not work unless you are 100% committed to giving up. This means that is that this decision must be your decision, given willingly. If you are being coerced or pressured to give up by your partner, feel guilty because of the reactions of your children, annoyed because of the price of cigarettes then the results will be disappointing. It’s the connection to improving your health, wellbeing and living a better life that are the main triggers to getting permanent results. 
Hypnotherapy provides a natural and effective approach to helping a client give up smoking permanently. Because the Quit Smoking Program is tailored to the individual we use both EFT and NLP techniques to compliment the Hypnotherapy treatment. In most instances there are underlying reasons as to why an individual chooses to smoke and it is important to identify and deal with these issues as part of the treatment plan. 
Most clients need only two sessions and see instant long lasting results very quickly. On occasions other issues surface and have to be treated, however this will be discussed with the client as they work through the program. At the end of the second session you will be provided with a CD. It is recommended that you listen to the CD at least 5/10 days in a row for the best results as this will reinforce the suggestions that were given during the hypnotherapy session and ensure the work continues in the comfort of your own home.
How do I get started?
If you decide you want to give Hypnotherapy a go please make an appointment and our Hypnotherapist will give you a call. She will take some time to go through a series of questions with you to make sure that you are ready to embark on this journey and that you are really committed to making this change.
What does it cost?
The 2 session program costs $340 if the full amount is paid up front. If the client elects to pay at each session the cost is $180.00 per session. Any future sessions are charged at the normal $120.
For other health related matters, please consult our massage Brisbane or our naturopathy Brisbane team. 
http://brisbanenaturalhealth.com.au Ratings You must be logged in to leave a rating. Average rating: (0 votes) Comments No Comments Yet. You must be logged in to leave a Comment Copyright 2010, Black Berry Directory - All rights reserved. Free Web Directory | Free Directory Submitter - No Fee Free Directory List | Free Dire