
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 20:50:30 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 18:03:17 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Whooping Cough Disease eMedTV Sitemap Diseases Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Diseases Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Diseases Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Diseases Articles Video eMedTV Video Diseases Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Leprosy Whooping Cough SARS Influenza Sarcoidosis Myasthenia Gravis Typhoid Fever Botulism UTI Avian Influenza Scleroderma Graves' Disease Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Whooping Cough Disease Browse eMedTV's wide range of articles related to whooping cough disease including topics such as whooping cough treatment, dtap,  and contagious period for whooping cough.
Use the search box at the top-right corner of the page to find information about other health topics. Read About Select a link from this list to read the article, or scroll down to see a short description of each article. Whooping Cough Causes of Whooping Cough Contagious Period for Whooping Cough Whooping Cough Symptoms Whooping Cough Diagnosis Whooping Cough Treatment Whooping Cough Complications DTaP Whooping Cough in Infants Whooping Cough in Adults Whooping Cough Statistics Description of Articles in Whooping Cough Disease Whooping Cough Characterized by severe coughing spells, whooping cough is a respiratory system illness caused by bacteria. This eMedTV article provides an overview of whooping cough, including information about its symptoms, complications, and treatment options. Causes of Whooping Cough Whooping cough occurs due to infection with Bordetella pertussis bacteria. This eMedTV resource explains how the bacteria cause whooping cough and includes information on how the bacteria are transmitted. Contagious Period for Whooping Cough The contagious period for whooping cough lasts as long as an infected person has symptoms of the illness. As this eMedTV article explains, however, a person with this condition is often most contagious during the first three weeks of symptoms. Whooping Cough Symptoms With whooping cough, symptoms range from those seen with a cold or flu to severe episodes of coughing. This eMedTV segment explores the three general stages of symptoms associated with whooping cough and defines the incubation period for the illness. Whooping Cough Diagnosis As explained in this eMedTV resource, making a whooping cough diagnosis often involves ruling out other conditions that may be causing the patient's symptoms, such as bronchitis. This article outlines the steps involved in diagnosing whooping cough. Whooping Cough Treatment As this eMedTV Web page explains, the treatment of whooping cough usually involves antibiotics along with supportive care to relieve symptoms of the illness. This article takes a detailed look at aspects of treating this condition. Whooping Cough Complications In cases of whooping cough, complications may include pneumonia, difficulty breathing, and seizures. This eMedTV segment lists potential complications of whooping cough in adults and explains the severity of complications that may occur in infants. DTaP DTaP is a vaccine used to prevent bacterial infections that cause diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis. This eMedTV resource further describes the vaccine and offers information about vaccination schedules and precautions to be aware of. Whooping Cough in Infants Whooping cough in infants can be very serious; without proper treatment, the illness can even be fatal. This eMedTV Web page discusses the prevalence of whooping cough among infants and outlines the vaccination schedule to help prevent the illness. Whooping Cough in Adults Cases of whooping cough in adults have increased dramatically in recent years. This eMedTV article looks at some of the differences between how whooping cough affects children and adults. Symptoms of the infection tend to be less severe in adults. Whooping Cough Statistics This eMedTV page offers some statistics on whooping cough; for example, a total of 25,827 cases of the illness were reported in 2004. This article also explains how the number of cases in the post-vaccine era compares to the number in the pre-vaccine era. Advertisement Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t