Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

The magnitude of magnesium SPECIALS Discounts APPLIANCES A - Z Juicers Vitamix EBOOKS Best Seller SUPPLEMENTS AIM A - Z BOOKS English French EDUCATION Living Well Healthy Cell Concept Recommended Reading PARTNERS Jalinis 
      Publishing The magnitude of magnesium When we think of health and minerals, we mostly think of calcium and 
        iron. Product labels proudly announce the presence of these minerals, 
        and we are encouraged to obtain adequate amounts of them. But are we missing the boat? Might there be a “more important” mineral? Although we don’t really believe that one mineral is “more important” 
        than another—we need them all—we should give more attention to magnesium. 
        This little-known mineral plays a large part in our health. A mineral of great magnitude Magnesium makes up about 0.05 percent of our total body weight, or about 
        20 to 30 grams. It is the fourth most common mineral in the body, and 
        the body’s second most abundant positively charged particle (next to potassium). 
        Within the cells, magnesium plays a critical role in the function of more 
        than 300 enzymatic reactions involving glucose, fat, protein, and more. According to the Harvard Heart Letter (August 1991), when magnesium levels 
        are low, a host or problems can arise. Studies have shown that people 
        who consume greater amounts of magnesium from hard water or their diet 
        are less prone to cardiovascular disease and sudden death than those with 
        a lower magnesium intake. This may be because low blood levels of magnesium 
        promote atherosclerosis. Lower magnesium levels may also raise blood pressure 
        or lead to arrhythmias. Some studies have noted improved survival after 
        a heart attack in patients given magnesium supplements. Obstetricians 
        have found that the developing placenta and fetus drain maternal magnesium 
        stores, and low levels of magnesium may contribute to the cardiovascular 
        problems seen in women during pregnancy. But magnesium does more than contribute to good cardiovascular health. 
        Magnesium helps turn food into energy and transmit electrical impulses 
        across nerves and muscles. These impulses generate what’s called neuromuscular 
        contraction, which causes your muscles to flex. Thus, a deficiency in 
        magnesium may result in muscle cramps—those who are physically active 
        have a greater need for this mineral than the more sedentary. Magnesium has been used for asthma, as it helps relax the lung muscles 
        that open the airways for easier breathing. It is currently gaining interest 
        in relation to chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) as many CFS patients have 
        low blood magnesium levels and magnesium may improve energy levels. Magnesium is also important in controlling blood sugar levels, as it 
        plays a central role in the secretion and action of insulin. It can improve 
        insulin response and reaction. It is also being studied for its positive 
        effect on fibromyalgia, migraine and tension headaches, osteoporosis, 
        and premenstrual syndrome. Magnesium deficiency? Many health professionals believe that few people get enough of this 
        important mineral. The problem starts at the beginning of the food chain. 
        Vegetables, pulses (peas, beans, and lentils), and cereals are good sources 
        of magnesium, but because of depleted soils, these foods carry less of 
        this mineral. What’s more, today’s eating habits often preclude these 
        foods in favor of sugary and fatty foods. Even if we are eating magnesium-rich foods, we may not be getting enough 
        magnesium. Only 30 to 50 percent of our average daily intake is absorbed 
        in the small intestines. Compounding this are factors that inhibit absorption. High amounts of 
        calcium, oxalic acid (found in spinach), phytates (found in whole grain 
        cereals), and poorly digested fats interfere with absorption. Phosphates 
        are also a problem. They bind to magnesium in the bowel and prevent its 
        absorption. Phosphates, of course, are in abundance in carbonated soft 
        drinks, and, according to The Big Family Guide to All the Minerals, a 
        12-ounce can of a carbonated soft drink, which might contain 30 mg of 
        phosphate, might eliminate the same amount of magnesium from the diet. Magnesium levels are also difficult to check. That’s because most magnesium 
        resides within the cells—60 percent is found in the bones and 28 percent 
        in soft tissue, with most of this found in the liver and muscle. Only 
        about 2 percent of our magnesium is found in body fluids, including blood 
        serum, which is where mineral levels are generally tested. Although figures vary, it is safe to say that some 80 percent of us are 
        not getting enough of this valuable mineral. That means that 80 percent 
        of us are missing out on an easy way to improve our health and truly find 
        optimum health. Getting it Considering that the magnesium absorption through the digestive tract 
        is low and that so much can interfere with it, what is a good way to get 
        magnesium? First, it always pays to increase your magnesium levels through the foods 
        you eat. Although not all of it is absorbed, foods contain so many other 
        nutrients and phytochemicals that the first option is always diet. One can also consider oral supplementation, but here, low absorption 
        plays a role and you do not get the “extras” that make magnesium-rich 
        foods worthwhile. There is also the intravenous option, but who really wants to do this? There may be another way, and that is through the skin. Soaking in magnesium-rich 
        water may be the perfect way to help supplement your magnesium levels. 
        The magnesium (and other helpful minerals) found in waters are absorbed 
        through the skin into the bloodstream and are distributed throughout the 
        body. © Partners magazine, 2000 Receive our newsletter : SUBSCRIBE 
                            HERE It's free! Privacy Policy Tired... ...of being tired? BarleyLife The easiest and fastest way to feed your 
                          body the nutrition it needs. Top green juice on the 
                          market without having to juice! more... Why Detoxify? Very simply, toxins undermine our health and removing 
                          them from the body is one way to maintain digestive 
                          health as well as good overall health.... [more...] Easy 
                          Green The newest design for starting virtually every sproutable 
                          seed. The Easy Green sprouter is the fastest and easiest 
                          sprouter to use..... [more...] The 
                          Proven Dangers of Microwaves Is it possible that millions of people are ignorantly 
                          sacrificing their health in exchange for the convenience 
                          of microwave ovens? [more...] &nbsp Home | Contact 
          us | Subscribe | Disclaimer Education | Library | Products | Privacy Our products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or preven