
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 10:14:39 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.42 (Unix) PHP/5.3.6 mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_auth_passthrough/1.8 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bacterial Vaginosis Herbal Treatments- Easy Ways To Treat BV Herbally Login / Register Home : Submit : Advanced Search @Twitter RSS Feed Content Caboodle Content Caboodle > Health-and-fitness > Bacterial Vaginosis Herbal Treatments- Easy Ways To Treat BV Herbally Bacterial Vaginosis Herbal Treatments- Easy Ways To Treat BV Herbally By Author tonybsmith Article Views: 249 Published on Oct 7th 2009 Tweet One of the most common problems related to the reproductive system that women face is bacterial vaginosis. Bacterial vaginosis comprises of the flaring up of the genitals due to the various forms of germs and bacteria that trigger an infection. ... One of the most common problems related to the reproductive system that women face is bacterial vaginosis. Bacterial vaginosis comprises of the flaring up of the genitals due to the various forms of germs and bacteria that trigger an infection. It is important to treat quickly.  Left untreated the infection may cause serious complications such as pelvic inflammatory disease, cervivitis and complications with pregnancy.  It must be remembered that bacterial vaginosis is not an ailment that only affects the surface sex organs. This disease affects the bladder along with the urethra. If you want to learn about bacterial vaginosis natural cures, then you need to keep reading. Primarily, you must enforce firm rules to keep the vagina uncontaminated after a bowel movement. Doing this prevents other anal bacteria from going into the vaginal region. Thoroughly wiping the anal and vaginal areas with anti-bacterial toilet tissue or wipes can help; as will gently cleansing the area.  In addition to this regimen, the genitalia should be kept clean and dry. To clean this area, cider vinegar along with water has proven very effective. You would dab this on the vagina and then rinse it when you take a bath. You can also pulverize vitamin E and apply it directly to the skin of the vagina, but this is more expensive. Yet another one of the bacterial vaginosis herbal treatments is to have a diet which is high in phyoestrogens. Examples of these foods would be nuts, apples, whole grains, celery, and soy based products. You can also use yogurt to get rid of BV.  To use it, you can either put some of it inside your vagina using a tampon, or you can eat a few cups of yogurt a day.  If you're going to insert it inside your vagina, make sure you only use plain yogurt. These are some bacterial vaginosis herbal treatments .  If you want to permanently cure your bacterial vaginosis within 3 days, click here . Visit tonybsmith's profile page If you enjoyed this article or found it useful, please share it with your friends on Facebook, Twitter or Google+ Tweet Tags: Bacterial Vaginosis Herbal Treatments bacterial vaginosis treat bv bv Report This Article Article Rating: Not yet rated --Choose-- 0 1 2 3 4 5 Comments You must be logged in to either Facebook or Content Caboodle to comment. It only takes a few seconds to register if you haven't already. From The Blog · Where Did My Article Go? · Our Readers Give Feedback, And We Listen · Crackdown On Automated Writings and Submissions · Turning Articles Into Traffic · Happy New Year! And A New Feature To Celebrate With Site Highlights Category Listings Our Blog About Us Privacy Policy Content Disclaimer Contact Us Author Resources Authors Earn Money Submission Guidelines Author Terms of Service Publisher Resources Publisher Terms of Service © 2007 - 2011, Bannon Pro