
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 01:30:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pinnacle Psychotherapy London | Main 020 7060 4375 info@pinnacletherapy.co.uk Therapy rooms in London and Twickenham Home Who we are What we do Case studies What people say Questions Contact us Booking The hypnotic effects of charisma Barack Obama, Margaret Thatcher, Nelson Mandela, Anita
Roddick, Bill Clinton, Oprah Winfrey, Hilary Clinton, Tony Blair, Mother Teresa,
Karren Brady, Carla Bruni Sarkozy, Diana Princess of Wales – and many more great
and good – have all been described as charismatic: having charm, magnetism and extraordinary
persuasive powers. And it is the words “great and good” that matter most. You
can be great and have charisma; but not all charismatic people are also good.
Think of the undeniably charismatic Adolf Hitler. New research from Denmark shows that charismatic people have
a subtle effect on others – which is what helps them win hearts and minds. In a
neuro-scientific study conducted by Aarhus University, people in two groups
(one of devoted Christians who believed in healing through prayer, and one
non-religious who did not believe in that possibility) were asked to listen to
three speakers. The speakers were described as a Christian, a non-Christian and
a Christian known for his healing powers. Participants were told which they were listening to, in turn. In
reality, all three were ordinary Christians. Leave aside the fact that the study involved Christians.  Their faith is not relevant; it is useful as it provides a neat example of how people behave. Participants’ brains were studied for their reactions to the
speakers as the speakers spoke. Afterwards, they were asked to rate each
speaker’s charisma. Devoted Christians gave the Christian known for his healing
powers a much higher charisma rating. Among non-Christians, there was only a
slight difference in their charisma ratings for that speaker. The brain analysis revealed that the people who rated the
Christian with healing powers most highly had deactivated a part of their
brain, switching off their scepticism and making them more susceptible to
influence. This is a general reaction when with people we trust – we do it with
doctors, for example – but it is boosted when we are in the presence of people
with presence: we lower our guard, become more trusting, believe more than
disbelieve. The study noted that this is also what happens to the brain during
hypnosis – which explains why people expect high levels of trust from hypnotherapists. People who abuse their charisma – leaders of cults, for
example – are often described as having a hold over people. And they do –
because of the way our brains react to their extraordinary persuasive powers.
But, used responsibly, charisma is a valuable tool. It can get you noticed,
leading to greater success, and it can help you win friends and influence
people. And that all adds up to improved self-esteem and self-belief. Lucky you if you were born with charisma.  If you weren’t,
you can acquire it. And if you’ve been
drawn towards someone who has abused their charisma, hypnotherapy can help you
recover. 15/07/2010		
				|
		Posted in Hypnotherapy , Quit smoking like Ben Affleck did Ben Affleck quit smoking using hypnotherapy. The Pearl Harbour star told Oprah Winfrey on her show earlier this year that he had quit smoking after 20 years during which he smoked a minimum of one pack a day and had tried several times to give up.  He said: "I thought I would give it up at 25 and then 30, but that came and went." Now, with his millions of dollars, there is no doubt that he had all the chances to quit smoking - and he had tried other methods. However, if was his childhood friend Matt Damon who persuaded him to try the same hypnotherapist he had used.  To date, Ben Affleck has not smoked a cigarette for more than two years.

Matt Damon had also been smoking for a long time – 16 years in fact – and after three hypnosis sessions, he quit without a glance back, as he told the Jay Leno show: "I should have done it years ago. It's amazing, I didn't even want cigarettes anymore". These two are not the only celebrities to have quit smoking using hypnotherapy, despite having millions in the bank to be able to afford any treatment they want.  Ellen Degeneres, Drew Barrymore, Charlize Theron, Winona Ryder and Samuel L Jackson also stopped smoking using hypnosis.

Ellen Degeneres even quit smoking live on her show as she had a impromptu session with a guest hypnotherapist.

No matter how rich or poor you are, quitting smoking is difficult - but help is available if you really want it. 10/12/2008		
				|
		Posted in Psychotherapy , We also provide Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT), Counselling, Eye movement desensitisation reprocessing (EMDR), Emotional freedom technique (EFT), 
        Existential counselling, Gestalt therapy, Humanistic psychotherapy, Hypno-birthing, Hypnotherapy, Integrative counselling, Neuro Linguistic Programming (NLP), 
        Person-centred counselling, Psychotherapy, Psychoanalytical therapy, Psychodynamic therapy and Sensorimotor psychotherapy services. View our Psychotherapy, Counselling & Therapy services RSS feed Subscribe to our blog Tag Cloud absenteeism abuse acne adam harvey addictions alcohol ambulance anger antenatal anthony worrall thompson anxiety assault asthma behaviour ben affleck bereavement blair books breivik bullying business cameron diaz cbt charisma children chilean miners choice of therapy chris martin clinton companies compulsion concentration confidence conflict corporations counselling counselling in london couples cults david beckham david cameron debt depression divorce drugs eating eating disorders ebay ellen degeneres emdr eva mendes failure families fears fertility firefighters frank bruno gastric band geri halliwell grief habits healing hrh prince william hypno-birthing hypnotherapy ibs insomnia intrusive thoughts irritability jealousy jens stoltenberg justin timberlake karren brady king and queen of norway l'oreal leadership lily allen mandela mandy moore mark owen matt damon mediation medically unexplained symptoms megan fox mel b menopause money mood swings mother teresa motivation nail biting neighbours nicole richie nlp norway obama obsession ocd olympics omagh oprah pain panic paramedics parenting performance phobias police postnatal prenatal princess of wales psychoanalysis psychotherapy ptsd redundancy relationships relaxation resilience richard  judy roddick sarkozy self-esteem self-harm separation shoplifting smoking sophie dahl sports steve collins stress suicide tamara drewe teams thatcher the ashes tiger woods tms tony blair trance trauma troops vanessa raw violence weight world cup worry Categories CBT Counselling EFT EMDR Existential counselling Gestalt therapy Humanistic psychotherapy Hypno-birthing Hypnotherapy Integrative counselling Mediation NLP Person-centred counselling Psychoanalytical therapy Psychodynamic therapy Psychotherapy Sensorimotor psychotherapy February 2012 January 2012 September 2011 July 2011 May 2011 March 2011 February 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 July 2010 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 All content Copyright P