<http://wp.me/pEo20-95>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Model Estimates Risks and Benefits of Bariatric Surgery for Severely Obese | Sublimis Blog Home Plastic Surgery Abroad Bariatric Surgery Abroad Dental Implants Abroad Fertility Treatments Abroad Hair Transplant Abroad « Obesity linked to common form of kidney cancer and each extra BMI point increases risk Should obese, smoking and alcohol consuming women receive assisted reproduction treatment? » Jan 23 2010 Model Estimates Risks and Benefits of Bariatric Surgery for Severely Obese Posted by admin in Gastric Bypass surgery , tags: argentina , before and after photos , Doctor Norman Jalil , gastric bypass surgery , obesity , obesity treatments , overweight Model Estimates Risks and Benefits of Bariatric Surgery for Severely Obese Chicago — A computerized model suggests that most morbidly obese individuals would likely live longer if they had gastric bypass surgery , according to a report in the January issue of Archives of Surgery, one of the JAMA/Archives journals. However, the best decision for individual patients varies based on factors such as age, increasing body mass index and the effectiveness of surgery. An estimated 5.1 percent of the U.S. population is morbidly obese, often defined as having a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher, according to background information in the article. Available evidence suggests that dietary, behavioral and pharmacologic treatments frequently do not result in meaningful weight loss for individuals in this group. Bariatric surgery appears to be the only effective therapy for promoting clinically significant weight loss and improving obesity-related health conditions for the morbidly obese. However, the procedure is not without risk, including in-hospital death. Daniel P. Schauer, M.D., M.Sc., of the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center, and colleagues used two nationally representative surveys and a recent large observational trial to construct a model estimating the benefits and risks of gastric bypass surgery for individuals with morbid obesity. The model included data from almost 400,000 individuals nationwide to estimate the risk of death from obesity and its complications; data from 23,281 patients undergoing bariatric surgery to calculate in-hospital death rates following the procedures; and outcomes from participants in a seven-year study to determine the effects of surgery on survival and to calibrate and validate the model. Before and After a bariatric surgery performed by Doctor Norman Jalil: 0 Month, 4th Month, 10th Month and 18th Month According to the resulting model, an average 42-year-old woman with a BMI of 45 would gain an estimated additional three years of life expectancy as a result of undergoing bariatric surgery; a 44-year-old man with the same BMI would gain an estimated 2.6 additional years. Additional analyses revealed that younger women with higher BMIs are projected to gain the most life expectancy from surgery. Younger men with higher BMIs might also gain more life expectancy after surgery, but the gain would be less for men than for women in each subgroup. “Younger patients have lower surgical risk and more time over which to realize the benefits of surgery,” the authors write. “For older patients, the gain is smaller, and for some, gastric bypass surgery will decrease life expectancy.” “The decision analysis presented here is a step forward in understanding optimal patient selection but also highlights some of the areas for which better data are needed,” they continue. For instance, the risk-benefit balance changes based on how effective bariatric surgery is likely to be. More information is needed about how individual patient characteristics—for example, having diabetes—affect the efficacy of the procedure. “In conclusion, while not all patients are guaranteed a good outcome, our model indicates that gastric bypass increases life expectancy for most patient subgroups; however, for those at high surgical risk or in whom efficacy of surgery is likely to be low, benefit will be minimal,” the authors write. “We believe results of this analysis can be used to better inform both patients’ and physicians’ decisions regarding gastric bypass surgery.” For more information about gastric bypass surgery or any bariatric surgery procedure in Argentina please don’t hesitate to contact us . Before and After a bariatric surgery performed by Doctor Norman Jalil: 0 Month, 4th Month, 10th Month and 18th Month Related posts: Bariatric Surgery Before and After Photos: Gastric By-Pass Patients With Diabetes May Need Fewer Medications After Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Associated With Family Members Adopting Healthier Lifestyles Obese Teens Who Receive Gastric Banding Achieve Significant Weight Loss Benefits of Cosmetic Surgery: Confidence This entry was posted on Saturday, January 23rd, 2010  at 2:48 pm and is filed under Gastric Bypass surgery . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. You can leave a response , or trackback from your own site. Leave a Reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Login » Follow us: Search Sublimis Blog en español: Lo Ultimo en Cirugia Plastica Archives January 2012 December 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 January 2011 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 November 2007 Categories Affordable Medical Treatments Bariatric Surgery Abroad Blepharoplasty Breast Augmentation Chin Surgery Cirugia Bariatrica Cirugia Plastica Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Abroad Endocrine Surgery Abroad Facelift Surgery Fertility Treatments Abroad Gastric Bypass surgery Liposuction Lips lift and Augmentation Medical Spa Medicina Reproductiva News Odontologia Orthopedic Surgery Abroad Phlebology Rhinoplasty traumatología y ortopedia Tummy Tuck Uncategorized United Kingdom Plastic Surgery United States Plastic Surgery NetworkedBlogs Blog: Sublimis Blog Topics: medical tourism , plastica surgery , argentina Follow my blog Powered by WordPres