<< U.N. Secretary-General taps U.K. PM Cameron to chair committee to develop new set of MDGs | IPS examines how HIV/AIDS affects women in western Nepal >> Read in
                 | English | Español | Français | Deutsch | Português | Italiano | 日本語 | 한국어 | 简体中文 | 繁體中文 | Nederlands | Русский | Svenska | Polski Guardian examines Swaziland's HIV epidemic Published on April 12, 2012 at 12:25 PM · 3 Comments Tweet The Guardian examines the HIV epidemic in Swaziland, writing, "While neighboring countries have made inroads against the disease, the mountain kingdom of one million people continues to suffer setbacks, partly due to cultural norms around sexuality being exacerbated by a financial crisis." According to the news service, Swaziland has "the highest HIV rate in the world, with more than one in four adults estimated to be carrying the virus ." "Research has found that, despite government information campaigns, understanding of HIV/AIDS is poor," the Guardian writes, adding, "A campaign funded by the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) to encourage men to undergo circumcision -- not a tradition in Swaziland -- fell well short of its target." However, "circumcision of newborn boys is proving more successful," and "[t]he government has also achieved 78 percent coverage of people who need antiretroviral (ARV) treatment and can now conduct tests within the country instead of having to send samples to South Africa," the news service notes (Smith, 4/11). This article was reprinted from kaiserhealthnews.org with permission from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Kaiser Health News, an editorially independent news service, is a program of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health care policy research organization unaffiliated with Kaiser Permanente. 90f52a21-ad28-470a-a569-952434385daf|0|.0 Posted in: Disease/Infection News | Healthcare News Tags: Antiretroviral , Circumcision , HIV , HIV/AIDS , PEPFAR , Virus Permalink | Comments (3) Comments Get them before they can fight back! Hugh Intactive says: April 12, 2012 at 7:34 PM There is NO evidence that circumcising babies has any effect on HIV transmission. Such evidence as there is that circumcising men has an effect is heavily contaminated by the context of adult circumcision - waiting in rooms with safe-sex literature, being exposed to counselling, etc. If men resist being circumcised, it is for the very good reason that their foreskin is an important part of their sexual equipment that they're unwilling to give up. But never mind such trivial issues as men's pleasure or medical ethics or efficacy - circumcise them as babies before they can resist or find out what they're going to miss. In Swaziland, 21.8% of circumcised men have HIV, and 19.5% of non-circumised men. (And USAID found similar differences in 10 out of 18 countries for which it had figures.) A study in Uganda started to find that circumcising men INcreases the risk to women, who are already at greater risk (but it was cut short before that could be confirmed). So how can circumcising males help against HIV? Reply » Circumcision of infants is "more successful" Ronald Goldman, Ph.D. says: April 12, 2012 at 7:47 PM Circumcision of infants is "more successful" because it can be done by force, and they cannot resist. Circumcision causes significant pain and trauma, behavioral and neurological changes in infants, potential parental stress from persistent crying (colic) of infants, disrupted bonding between parent and child, and risk of surgical complications. Other consequences of circumcision include loss of a natural, healthy, functioning body part, reduced sexual pleasure, potential psychological problems, and unknown negative effects that have not been studied. Some circumcised men resent that they are circumcised. Sexual anxieties, reduced emotional expression, low self-esteem, avoidance of intimacy, and depression are also reported. Many professionals have criticized the studies claiming that circumcision reduces HIV transmission. They have various flaws. The absolute rate of HIV transmission reduction is only 1.3%, not the claimed 60%. Authorities that cite the studies have other agendas including political and financial. Other methods to prevent HIV transmission (e.g., condoms and sterilizing medical instruments) are much more effective, much cheaper, and much less invasive. Reply » Isn't "get them before they can fight back" the same technique the US Tom Tobin says: April 13, 2012 at 6:44 AM Isn't "get them before they can fight back" the same technique the US employs, with the same amount of protection provided against HIV?  93% of Ethiopian men are circumcised, and yet HIV rages there. Condoms are 97%-98% effective, when used regularly and correctly.  The world has demonstrated that they are quite effective against the HIV virus.  They are cheaper than a circumcision, and are much more effective. So one wonders why the WHO campaign and the Swazi medical establishment push circumcision, and not condoms? Condoms protect both partners. Reply » The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net. Cancel reply to comment Quirky Comment Title Name* E-mail* Country [Not specified] Afghanistan Albania Algeria Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Belarus Belgium Belize Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Cambodia Canada Caribbean Chile Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Estonia Ethiopia Faroe Islands Finland France Georgia Germany Greece Greenland Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R. Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Islamic Republic of Pakistan Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao P.D.R. Latvia Lebanon Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao S.A.R. Macedonia (FYROM) Malaysia Maldives Malta Mexico Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Oman Panama Paraguay People's Republic of China Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Principality of Monaco Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of the Philippines Romania Russia Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Serbia and Montenegro (Former) Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Thailand Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan U.A.E. Ukraine United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen Zimbabwe b i u quote Comment Preview Comment Leave this field blank News A to Z Drugs A to Z Health A to Z Medical / Health Products Medical / Health Services Newsletters News Archive Talk Medical Medical News Tweets Information Subscribe Other AZoNetwork Websites AZoM.com AZoNano.com AZoOptics.com AZoCleantech.com AZoSensors.com AZoRobotics.com AZoMining.com AZoBuild.com AZoQuantum.com News-Medical.Net News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                    with these terms and conditions .
                                    Please note that medical information found
                                    on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                    between patient a