
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 09:25:01 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.com.au - Research - Acupuncture equals drug treatment for migraine. The Basics Q & A Library Find a Practitioner Professional Resources Professional Community About Acupuncture What can Acupuncture do for me? How does Acupuncture work? What conditions can be treated? What is involved in a treatment? What is the cost? Library Home Asthma Diabetes Fertility Fibromyalgia Low Back Pain Menstrual Pain Migraine Muscle Strain Neck Pain Osteoarthritis The history and theory of Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Meridian Pathways Acupuncture Points Directory Acupuncture Indications Search The Zang Fu Organs and Syndromes Chinese Herbal Therapy Ear Acupuncture and Auriculotherapy Reference Books ACNM Nanning Internship Members Area Practitioner Discussion Forum Media Gallery Monthly Newsletter News, Research and Articles Events Calendar Acupuncture Courses Live RSS Newsfeeds Free 250mb Email Make a contribution Acupuncture equals drug treatment for migraine [5th Mar 2006] A new study published on March 2 by The Lancet Neurology shows that Acupuncture, real or sham, is as effective as drugs for treating migraines. German researchers treated over 900 patients with  either standard drugs, traditional Chinese acupuncture or sham  acupuncture. There were 313 patients in the group receiving traditional Chinese acupuncture, which includes compulsory points plus additional ones  chosen by the physician. Drug prophylaxis was the treatment  for 308 patients which including beta-blockers, Sibelium (flunarizine), and valproic acid. The sham acupuncture group consisted of 339 patients and the prescription of points was given at  non-traditional Chinese needling points. The study was conducted over 6 weeks with patients receiving 10 sessions of  acupuncture or continuous drug prophylaxis. The researchers then returned to the patients between 23  and 26 weeks later and checked on whether they had been "migraine free"  for 50% of days. It was found 47% of those receiving traditional  acupuncture, 39% of those given sham acupuncture and 40% of those in  the drug treatment group had been migraine-free for at least 50% of the  time. The researchers led by Dr  Hans Christoph Diener of the University of Duisberg-Essen, said the  results were surprising and the mechanisms unknown. They were therefore difficult to explain, he added. “The most important result is that all three treatments were effective  and that improvement in the number of migraine days was closely similar  in all treatment groups,” said   Diener. Patients enrolled in the study had  between two and six migraine attacks in four weeks, lasting four to 72  hours without acute medication or at least two hours with medication,  the researchers said. In addition, two other migraine characteristics  had to be met and at least one of the following: nausea, vomiting, or  light or sound phobias. Dr.  Diener said that "A strength of the study is its large, randomized controlled design." and he also made mention of the availability of highly competent physicians performing acupuncture. Among limitations, he said, were  that acupuncture was restricted to needling only, and that the number  of treatments was limited to between 10 and 15. Also, a relatively high  number of patients dropped out in the drug treatment group prior to  receiving therapy, having originally expected to receive acupuncture. The researchers were surprised at the results of the efficacy of sham acupuncture. Dr. Dieiner remarked "Ultimately, one  could argue that the efficacy of treatment, especially a treatment with  almost no adverse events or contraindications, is more important than  the knowledge of the mechanism of action of this particular therapy,"  and that "The decision whether acupuncture should be used  in migraine prevention remains with the treating physician." Source: The Lancet Neurology Online March 2, 2006 Source reference: 
            Diener, Hans-Christoph, et al, "Efficacy of acupuncture for the prophylaxis of migraine: a multicentre randomized controlled trial" [Click
            here for Discussion forum feedback on this article] [Click
              here to Return to the Research Papers Index] Acupuncture.com.au | About | Community | Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | We support The Coomera Busines