Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Tips for Reducing Hot Flashes Menopause Home > Health Channels > Women's Health > Menopause Tips for Reducing Hot Flashes By Lila Havens, Staff Writer No doubt about it, hot flashes are uncomfortable and annoying. And if they leave your drenched and red-faced, they can also be embarrassing. Hot flashes are caused by falling estrogen levels. Hormone therapy is one way to cope, but many women feel it's not worth the risks. Don't worry, there are plenty of other things you can try to put the chill on hot flashes. Avoid triggers Figuring out what triggers your hot flashes can be key to getting them under control. Some common triggers include: Stress Caffeine Alcohol Spicy foods Hot drinks Being too warm Smoking Keep notes about what you were doing when or right before a hot flash strikes. If you see a pattern, try to avoid that trigger. You may not be able to prevent all hot flashes, but you can probably reduce the number you have. Avoid overheating Low estrogen levels upset the hypothalamus, the part of the brain that controls your body temperature. Put simply, your body's thermostat is out of whack.What should register as "warm" the thermostat senses as "hot." Your body then reacts in ways meant to cool you down: dilating blood vessels to release heat and making sweat to chill the skin. To defeat this thermostat problem, keep cool. Dress in layers. If you feel your temperature rising, remove layers until you are cooler. Wear natural fibers that breathe, such as cotton and linen. Avoid synthetics. Keep your home or office cool. Use air conditioning or fans if needed. Use cotton sheets and lightweight bedclothes. Take a cool shower before bedtime. Drink a glass of cold water or juice at the onset of a hot flash. If you have night sweats, keep a change of cotton nightwear beside your bed so you can change quickly. Exercise Aerobic and weight-bearing exercises are a powerful remedy for a host of menopausal complaints, including hot flashes, mood changes and sleep problems. Exercise also helps cut the risk of heart disease and osteoporosis, diseases women are more prone to after menopause. And of course, regular physical activity can help you control your weight. See your doctor before you increase your activity level. Reduce stress Stress triggers hot flashes in many women, so taking steps to lower your stress level may also help you avoid hot flashes.Try: Relaxation techniques such as meditation, massage or a leisurely bath. Slow, deep abdominal breathing (called paced respiration), which seems to lower stress and reduce hot flashes. Yoga, which combines movement with meditation. It can improve flexibility and lower stress. It may also reduce menopause symptoms, including hot flashes. Seek medical treatment As a last resort, ask your doctor about prescription choices that can ease hot flashes. Hormone therapy (estrogen alone or estrogen plus progestogen) is the most effective treatment for menopause symptoms. It does have risks, though, so it is usually reserved for those who have severe symptoms. If hormones are not right for you, there are other prescription options such as a seizure medication, blood pressure medicine or certain antidepressants. These drugs reduce hot flashes in some women, but they may have side effects of their own. Discuss the pros and cons with your doctor. Related Articles Deciding on Hormone Therapy Yoga May Offer Welcome Relief for Menopause Symptoms Exercise: Rx for a Healthy Menopause Soy for Hot Flashes: The Debate Continues External Sources National Institute on Aging. Menopause: time for a change. . Accessed January 20, 2010 Treatment of menopause-associated vasomotor symptoms:position statement of the North American Menopause Society. Menopause. 2004;11(1):11-33.. Accessed January 20, 2010 BreastCancer.org. All about hot flashes. . Accessed January 20, 2010 National Guideline Clearinghouse. Vasomotor symptoms. In: Menopause and osteoporosis update 2009. . Accessed January 20, 2010 This article was reviewed and updated 						 
								  08-01-2009. Return to the previous page Disclaimer: The text presented on these pages is for your information only. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice. It may not represent your true individual medical situation. Do not use this information to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease without consulting a qualified health care provider. Please consult your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns. Copyright © 1999-2005 Medical Network Inc. All rights reserved. No part of the contents of this web site may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the written permission of the publisher. "HealthAtoZ.com" should be prominently displayed on any material reproduced with the publisher's consent. We subscribe t