Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Varicose Veins Home About Us FAQ Contact Varicose Veins RX Articles What

                    is a Varicose Vein Who

                    Gets Varicose Veins What
                    Causes it What

                    are the Symptoms Varicose
                    Veins Treatment Varicose
            Veins Treatment: There are several treatment
                  options available. One simple self-care technique that has
                  been proven to help is to wear compression stockings. These
                  stockings should be worn all day long. They steadily squeeze
                  your leg muscles to help them more efficiently circulate
                  blood. Standing for long periods of
                  time may increase the severity of varicose veins. If you have
                  an occupation that requires long periods of standing with
                  little movement, then you might consider the possibility of
                  switching occupations or exercising during breaks. Many herbal and
                  homeopathic remedies have been used to promote
                  circulation, and keep a healthy flow of blood pumping through
                  the body and serve as a natural remedy for varicose
                  veins . Astragalus membranaceous is a well-known
                  revitalizing herb used for boosting circulation, while Ruscus
                  acluteatus is known extensively in Europe to improve
                  circulation and relieve pain and discomfort associated with
                  leg conditions thus serving as a natural remedy for
                  varicose veins . Anther natural remedy
                  for varicose veins includes homeopathic ingredients
                  such as Rhus tox, Zincum metallicum and Magnesium phosphate
                  all help to promote health in the lower limbs and keep
                  lymph and blood flowing freely . Skin health can be
                  promoted through homeopathic ingredients such
                  as Natrium muriaticum, Kalium muriaticum and Kalium sulphate
                  to distribute oxygen throughout the body and to each
                  individual cell and keep all cell membranes healthy. By providing essential oxygen
                  to inflamed or infected cells, these ingredients effectively
                  assists healing, reduces inflammation and removes infected or
                  dead cells. Click
                  here for more information on Circu-Live   or to
                  order online More severe cases might require
                  medical intervention. A common intervention is Slerotherapy.
                  This is when a doctor intentionally scars your veins in an
                  effort to close the veins. This forces your blood to reroute
                  through healthier veins. Copyright