Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
P3P: CP="BUS CUR CONi FIN IVDi ONL OUR PHY SAMo"
X-ServerName: WEBDYN17
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 20:00:07 GMT
Connection: keep-alive

Beat stress incontinence News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel Cars eBay Jobs Dating Property More sites Make ninemsn your Homepage Hot Topics: Miranda Kerr Cudo: 65% off a romantic Phuket escape Mobile Messenger Hotmail Make this your home Home Diet A-Z of diets Celebrity trends Meal plans Burn barometer Calorie counter Real-life stories Expert Q&A Galleries Recipes Quizzes News Health in images Fitness Exercise Fitness Trainer Galleries Energy estimator Expert Q&A: Fitness Expert Q&A: Yoga Body mass index Yoga Health tools Family Family health Quit smoking centre Women's health Galleries Cholesterol health What's Good For You Expert Q&A: GP Expert Q&A: Mental health Natural health A-Z of Natural Therapies Natural health Galleries Expert Q&A Men Health & fitness Grooming Sex & relationships Galleries Pamper Cosmetic surgery Beauty Expert Q&A: Cosmetic dentist Expert Q&A: Plastic surgery Galleries Relaxation Spa treats Pregnancy Planning Due date calculator Trimesters Exercise and nutrition Labour and birth Complications Parenthood Galleries Expert Q&A Sex Relationships Sexual health Galleries Love Coach Expert Q&A: Women Expert Q&A: Men Good Health Video Health > Pregnancy Beat stress incontinence Mother & Baby Friday, August 6, 2010 Share Tweet To prevent stress incontinence, the best thing to do is get into the habit of exercising these muscles as often as possible. Mother & Baby More about Pregnancy: Beat pregnancy backache Curves are spicy Eating for fertility Emotionally ready for baby How to have baby-making sex Topics: Pregnancy Exercise Trimester Bought to you by Mother & Baby If you're feeling like a garden sprinkler without an off button then you're probably suffering from stress incontinence. Don't worry - this condition affects many women towards the later stages of pregnancy... What is stress incontinence? This condition occurs when urine leaks from your bladder, due to weakened pelvic floor muscles. Stress incontinence often occurs in the last weeks of pregnancy, when the combined effects of your heavy uterus (womb) and a flood of hormones that soften your joints and ligaments in preparation for birth can weaken your pelvic floor muscles. You may also suffer when the baby kicks your bladder, when you cough, sneeze or laugh, or when you lift anything heavy, or do any exercise. Stress incontinence can also begin or continue after birth because muscles can be weakened by pushing, and forceps deliveries can pull the muscles that support the opening in the pelvic floor. VIEW GALLERY: Supermodel mums Ways to prevent it Your pelvic floor is made up of three layers of muscles, which form a sling supporting your uterus, bowel and bladder. These muscles control the release of urine and faeces and, if they are weak or damaged, stress incontinence can occur. You can locate your pelvic floor muscles by pretending that you're trying to stop weeing or trying not to pass wind. To prevent stress incontinence, the best thing to do is get into the habit of exercising these muscles as often as possible (see The solution - pelvic floor exercises, below). How to treat it Pelvic floor exercises are also a successful way of treating stress incontinence. These exercises strengthen and tone the muscles and they can be done at any time. Practise them regularly, and you will see an improvement - usually after three to six months. If however, after regularly doing them, there is no improvement, ask your GP to refer you to a physiotherapist. She can help you with exercises or offer ultrasound treatment, which helps tone the muscles. Staying fit is also important. If you're overweight, weight loss can help, as can eating a high-fibre diet. Also, avoid straining when doing a poo, and avoid any strenuous exercise until your muscles are toned. The solution - pelvic floor exercises The following exercise can be repeated as often as you like, including during pregnancy: Imagine you have a lift inside your body that can go up to your waist. It is made up of your pelvic floor muscles and you can make them rise from the ground floor to the fourth, stopping at each floor on the way. Pull your muscles slowly, as if the lift is going up to the fourth floor. Hold the contraction only as long as is comfortable. Stop if your muscles start to tremble and remember not to tighten up your buttock muscles at the same time. After each exercise, allow your muscles to relax slowly to ground level. Then relax them completely so you feel a slight bulging downwards. Your stories 'I learnt pelvic floor exercises, which helped control my incontinence' 'I started having problems when I went back to work as a fitness instructor, six weeks after Ben was born. I'd just begun a class when I felt this flooding - I'd completely let go of my bladder even though I'd had no sensation that I needed a pee. I was so embarrassed - I couldn't face talking to the doctor about it, so I ignored it. 'Eventually, though, I went to see my GP, who was really understanding and referred me to a physiotherapist. She taught me to do pelvic floor exercises, and to remember to control myself when I cough, which is when I tended to leak. 'Now I feel much more confident - and I teach pelvic floor exercises in my class.' Jacqui Hoath, 35, first suffered from stress incontinence after the birth of her son Ben, five." Bought to you by Mother & Baby Share Tweet Also in this section Ready to burst? Piles during pregnancy The emotional rollercoaster 10 morning sickness cures LATEST NEWS 38KKK breasts could kill woman Would you inhale your coffee? Grief is not an illness Diet tips from around the world 'Deadly' alcohol needs global regulation, health expert says Most Popular 6542|45 Diet tips from around the world 38KKK breasts could kill woman Top 10 diet fibs Penis size: what's normal? The weight-loss fruit Ask our experts EXPERTS CORNER What do I do to change my life and stop this sex addiction? Our answer SEX EXPERT Desiree Spierings Are juices really good for you? Our answer DIET AND NUTRITION EXPERT Lisa Guy Latest Galleries GALLERIES 10 surprising things that affect your mood Boost your happiness at work Love & dating A-Z Copycat couples Hotter than ever: male stars at 40 10 most bizarre phobias ALL GALLERIES The A-Z index of A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z BROWSE BY CATEGORY Diet & Nutrition Nutrition Diet guide Expert advice Galleries Family Family health Quit smoking center Women's health Good Health Men Health & fitness Grooming Grooming kit bag Sex & relationships Sex & Relationships Dating & relationships Sexual health Expert advice Better sex tips Fitness Exercise Celebrity workouts Kit bag Ubertrainer blog Natural A-Z of natural therapies Natural health Expert advice Vitamins & supplements Pamper Beauty Cosmetic Surgery Pamper guru blog Relaxation Pregnancy Planning Trimesters Exercise & nutrition Labour & birth NEWSLETTER Sign-up to our newsletter for the latest in health each day SIGN UP PROMOTION News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel Cars eBay Jobs Dating Property More sites About ninemsn Careers at ninemsn Advertise Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Other ninemsn businesses: iSelect RateCity m