
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 10:10:34 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 09:10:34 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Vascular Dementia Multi-Infarct Dementia About.com Health Senior Health Senior Health Search Senior Health Conditions Living Well Managing Illness Share Discuss in our forum Vascular Dementia Also known as Multi-Infarct Dementia From Marian Anne Eure , former About.com Guide Updated July 25, 2006 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board Filed In: Mental Health > Alzheimer's Disease When most people think of dementia they immediately think of Alzheimer's disease. While Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia among adults over the age of 65 there are other conditions that can produce dementia. Dementia is actually a group of symptoms that point to an underlying cause. Serious forgetfulness, mood swings, and other behavioral changes are not a normal part of aging. These symptoms may be short term and reversible if a result of poor diet, medications or lack of sleep. Untreated depression may also produce some of these symptoms. The second most common cause of dementia is vascular dementia caused by damage to brain cells. The most common culprit in the damage is a series of small strokes that block blood flow to a part of the brain damaging brain cells. When this occurs it is referred to as "multi-infarct dementia". Strokes can be caused when a blood clot or fatty deposit (called plaque) blocks the vessels that supply blood to the brain. A stroke also can happen when a blood vessel in the brain bursts. Strokes can be caused by: uncontrolled high blood pressure diabetes heart disease high cholesterol Multi-infarct dementia is caused by a series of small strokes that cause brain damage. The stoke may produce little or no symptoms at the time but a series of them can lead to cognitive changes that include: confusion and problems with recent memory wandering or getting lost in familiar places moving with rapid, shuffling steps loss of bladder or bowel control laughing or crying inappropriately difficulty following instructions problems handling money Diagnosis and Treatment When these types of cognitive and behavior changes are identified a thorough medical examination is important. The physical and history should look at diet, medications and social issues. Blood pressure should be checked and lab tests such as blood tests for diabetes and cholesterol carried out. A CAT Scan or MRI can help identify areas of the brain that may have sustained damage from small strokes. It is important to determine the cause of the dementia as the treatments for Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia are different. It is also important to identify the underlying cause of the strokes. Treatment may include medications to control high blood pressure, heart disease or diabetes. Surgery may be called for to open blood vessels and prevent blockage. Care Long term care plans will vary depending on the progression of the dementia. The patient may just require supervision and monitoring or may need complete care. Care should be provided on an individual basis based on amount of impairment. While damage to brain cells cannot be repaired further damage may not occur if the cause is treated successfully. SOURCES National Institute on Aging ; National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke April, 2006 Additional Information for Vascular Dementia Dementia Defined Stroke Symptoms Preventing Diabetic Complications More Resources For Dementia Forgetfullness Dementia in Nursing Homes Types of Dementia Related Articles Vascular Dementia - What is Vascular Dementia Mixed Dementia - Alzheimer's Disease and Forms of Dementia Causes of Dementia - Types and Causes of Dementia Types of Dementia - Diseases That Can Cause Dementia Stroke - Prevention Related Searches multi infarct dementia plaque blocks second most common cause vascular dementia cause brain damage diet medications Explore Senior Health Must Reads Your Annual Checkup Health Terms Health Questions Diagnostic Test Index Drug Information Most Popular Fallen Arches Medication Administration Rte. toenail fungus Checkup CVA By Category Heart  Health Cancer Diseases and Conditions Bone Health and Mobility Vision and Hearing Loss Sexuality Long Term Care Medicare Healthy Living Mental Health Senior Health About.com Health Senior Health Mental Health Alzheimer's Disease Vascular Dementia Multi-Infarct Dementia> Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod