Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Ears and Airplane Travel, Ear Wax,... - Physicians Regional | Physicians Regional Pay My Bill Careers Maps & Directions Contact Us (239) 354-6000 (Collier) or (239) 348-4000 (Pine Ridge) Home Medical Services Patients & Visitors Classes & Programs Health Education Physicians Locations About Home » Health Education » Ears and Airplane Travel, Ear Wax,... I want to . . . Find a Doctor Find a Medical Service Sign Up for Classes & Programs Get Directions to a Hospital Pay My Bill Visit Physicians Regional Medical Group Health Education Healthy Living Health Centers Family Health Ears and Airplane Travel, Ear Wax, and Ear Cleaning Ears and Airplane Travel, Ear Wax, and Ear Cleaning Ears and air travel: Click Image to Enlarge The experience of "popping" ears when flying on an airplane is the most common medical complaint of airplane passengers. Due to an air pocket in the middle ear that is sensitive to air pressure changes, the changing altitude as the plane takes off or lands can cause discomfort in the ears. Swallowing or yawning usually can help "pop" the ears (activating the muscle that opens the Eustachian tube, which connects the middle ear with the nasopharynx) and ease the discomfort. However, ears that are already blocked (by a cold, for example) cannot equalize the air pressure in the middle ear adequately, therefore, creating a vacuum that sucks the eardrum in and stretches it. When the eardrum cannot vibrate, sound is muffled and the stretched eardrum can be very painful. If swallowing or yawning do not relieve the ears, the American Academy of Otolaryngologists recommends trying the following ear-clearing technique: Pinch the nostrils shut. Breathe in through the mouth. Force the air into the back of the nose as if trying to blow your nose. Small children are especially vulnerable to blocked ear canals because their Eustachian tubes are narrower. Use of a bottle or pacifier during take-off and landing may help pop their ears. What is ear wax? Earwax, also called cerumen, is naturally produced by the outer part of the ear canal to keep the ear clean. It performs this task by trapping dust and sand particles before they reach the eardrum. Wax also coats the fragile skin of the ear canal and acts as a water repellent. Accumulated wax usually migrates to the ear opening, dries up, and falls out. How should ears be properly cleaned? Normally, ears canals are self-cleaning and should not need cleaning with any devices or cotton-tipped applicators. Cleaning the ear can cause problems by pushing the ear wax deeper into the ear canal and against the eardrum. However, sometimes wax can accumulate excessively, resulting in a blocked ear canal. In the case of a blocked ear canal, consult your physician. He/she may recommend one or more of the following: An irrigation of the ear canal to wash out the wax A vacuuming of the ear canal to remove the wax The use of a special instrument(s) to remove the wax Prescription eardrops or mineral oil to soften the wax Always consult your physician for a diagnosis and for additional information. Related Content Drug References Antipyrine; Benzocaine Carbamide Peroxide Patients Find a Doctor Physician Referral Pay My Bill Admissions Visitors Maps & Directions Gift Shop Visitor Information Local Accommodations Physicians Physicians Regional Medical Group Physician Opportunities Health Care Professionals Why Physicians Regional? Hospital and Clinic Careers Seasonal Careers Health Content Healthy Living Health Centers Your Family About Mission & Vision Press Releases News Stories Volunteer Opportunities Copyright © 2012 Physicians Regional. All rights reserved. Notice of Privacy Practices | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use Services Orthopedics Women's Health Robotic Surgery Center Vein Center Neurovascular and Stroke Institute Ear, Nose and Throat Optical Center See All Services » Treatment & Procedures Biopsy CT Breast Imaging MRI Ultrasound Patients Find a Doctor Physician Referral Pay My Bill Admissions Billing and Insurance Medical Records Request Visitors Visitor Information Gift Shop Local Accommodations Patients & Visitors Maps & Directions Event Categories Community Lectures Diabetes Education Programs CuddleBugs Executive Health Healthy Start Research Studies Speakers Bureau Health Education Topics Healthy Living Health Centers Your Family See All Health Topics » Interactive Health Tools Blood Pressure Quiz BMI Calculator Calorie Burn Rate Calculator Diabetes Quiz Target Heart Rate Calculator Health Library A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z For Patients Find a Doctor Physician Referral For Physicians Physician Opportunities Medical Groups Physicians Regional Medical Group Hospitals Physicians Regional - Collier Blvd Physicians Regional - Pine Ridge Other Facilities PRHS - Bonita Springs I PRHS - Bonita Springs II PRHS - Bonita Springs III PRHS - Medical Arts Building (MOB) PRHS - Pebblebrooke Center Our Story CEO's Message Mission & Vision History Leadership Our Community Speakers Bureau Joint Commission Seal of Approval News Press Releases News Stories Careers Why Physicians Regional? Physician Opportunities Hospital