
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 18:30:55 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Ua-Compatible: IE=8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

What is Tooth Decay? - Washington, DC Dentist Home Staff Office Services New Patients Contact Us Appointment Request Patient Education Our Location: Dentist - Washington 2021 K Street Northwest Washington, DC 20006 (202) 223-2028 View the latest in dental technology with our videos Patient Education: Oral Health Topics Introduction Fluoride The Preventive Program Fillings Infection Control Medication and Heart Disease Latex Allergy Age and Oral Health Tobacco Oral Piercing Tooth Care What is Tooth Decay? Brushing Flossing Fluoride Facts Mouth Rinses Sealants X-Rays Denture Care Emergency Care Prevention Tips for Children Women and Tooth Care Seniors and Oral Health Nutrition and Your Teeth Dental Problems Abscessed Tooth Bad Breath (halitosis) Bulimia Nervosa Canker/Cold Sores Cavities and Tooth Decay Toothaches Diabetes Dry Mouth Fluorosis Gum Disease (Gingivitis) Impacted/Wisdom Teeth Lacerations and Cuts Oral Cancer Plaque Sensitive Teeth Teeth Grinding (Bruxism) Jaw Disorders Treatment Braces (Orthodontia) Sealants Missing Teeth Bridges Crowns Root Canal Therapy Extractions Scaling and Root Planing Flap Surgery Dentures Jaw/TMJ Maxillofacial Surgery Cosmetic Dentistry Veneers Teeth Whitening Bleaching Chipped, Cracked, and Worn Teeth Implants Grafts Old and Unsightly Fillings Bonding Excessive or Uneven Gums Ridge Augmentation Invisalign ® Crowns and Bridges Pain Management Overview Managing Pain Anesthesia Air Abrasion Medications Patient Information Your First Dental Visit Dental Emergencies Your Rights as a Patient Product Reviews Oral Health Products Choosing a Toothbrush Types of Floss Water Picks Mouth Guards Glossary Links What is Tooth Decay? Our team of dental specialists and staff strive to improve the overall health of our patients by focusing on preventing, diagnosing and treating conditions associated with your teeth and gums. Please use our dental library to learn more about dental problems and treatments available. If you have questions or need to schedule an appointment , contact us . Plaque is an insidious substance-a colorless, sticky film that blankets your teeth and creating an environment in which bacteria erode tooth enamel, cause gum irritation, infection in inner structures such as pulp and the roots, and in extreme cases, tooth loss. Some of the biggest culprits causing plaque are foods rich in sugar and carbohydrates, including soda beverages, some juices, candy and many kinds of pasta, breads and cereals. Plaque also can attack fillings and other restorations in your mouth, which can lead to more costly treatment down the road. Plaque is one of the biggest causes for tooth decay. It also causes your gums to become irritated, inflamed, and in some cases, bleed. Over time, the decay process may cause your gums to pull away from your teeth, a condition called receding gums. In addition, the long-term decay process can lead to infections in your gums and can eat away at the bone structures under the teeth. Inside your teeth, decay can gradually destroy the inner layer, or dentin, the pulp, which contains blood vessels, nerves and other tissues, and the root. Periodontal disease is advanced gum disease. This serious condition occurs when the structures that support your teeth-the gums, the bone, break down from the infection. Pain, hypersensitivity and bleeding are some of the signs of periodontal disease. Simple Preventative Measures The two best defenses against tooth decay and gum disease are a healthy, well-balanced diet and good oral hygiene, including daily brushing with fluoride toothpaste, flossing and rinsing. Most public drinking water contains fluoride, but if you are unsure of your water supply, then use a good quality mouth rinse containing fluoride. A good way to help your oral health between brushing is chewing sugarless gum; this stimulates your body's production of saliva, a powerful chemical that actually neutralizes plaque formation and rinses decay-causing food particles and debris from your mouth. In some cases, our office can prescribe anti-cavity rinses or apply special anti-cavity varnishes or sealants to help fight decay. Contact Us Name Email Phone Message Your Comments Dentist - Washington, Robert J. Tigani D.D.S. , Washington DC, 20006 (202) 223-2028 Home Staff Office Services New Patients Patient Education Contact Us Appointment Request