
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 10:07:12 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

external -  DOObiz DOO.biz Lekomat Marketplace - external Main external Most popular: external Most linked: external Most respected: external Acupuncture Pain From Needles - Cabinet Hormone Replacement Therapy For Men and Medicomat Acupuncture Pain From Needles - Medicobot Medical Automat. Investments in their own health - for home therapy device Lekomat. This appliance has won the gold medal at the world exhibition in Brussels Eureka, and Markonijevu medal for the innovation. Lekomat a combination of traditional Chinese medicine and modern Japanese computer technology. Because of its exceptional properties it holds, is called the Home Clinic future. 

It is known that all the internal organs and body parts have their own acupuncture points on the ear lobe. Using special headphones placed over the ear shells LEKOMAT fully automatically finds all the diseased organs and automatically selects the necessary acupuncture points through which the treatment is done. When using LEKOMAT a tingling sensation is felt and heard the quiet music. It is used 2-3 times a day for 20-30 minutes. Usually 2-3 treatments are sufficient for 7 days, and treatment of chronic illness takes longer. Treatment For Tuberculosis and Acupuncture Pain From Needles - Medicobot Home Clinic. This device works on the principle of traditional Chinese medicine and bio-electricity of the human body. Balancing the positive and negative charges in the man's body, it is possible to regulate the functions of the body and normalize cell protein synthesis and transfer processes. apparatus for Home Treatment LEKOMAT detects and cures the disease completely automatically. It is particularly effective in diseases of the nervous system, bronchitis, asthma, allergies, stress. 

Ear acupuncture, is an acupuncture technique similar to reflexology, and is speculated that the technique works because groups of pluripotent cells contain information from the whole organism and create regional organization centers representing different parts of the body, through recruitment of more cortex cells dedicated to specific areas of the body. Thus stimulation of a reflex point in the ear can relieve symptoms of distant pathology with a reliable duration. New Ms Treatment and Acupuncture Pain From Needles - Very Powerful and Simple Treatmen. Daily treatment of 50-10 minutes can reduce pressure for 20-30/5-10 mmHg. Blood pressure will be controlled after 5-7 treatments. Two treatments of 10-20 minutes a day can stabilize blood pressure and hypertension in more pronounced. Therapy can be a supplement or alternative to medication for a gradual reduction in medication. 

Auriculotherapy is a health care procedure in which stimulation of the auricle of the external ear is utilized to alleviate health conditions in other parts of the body. While originally based upon the ancient Chinese practices of acupuncture, the somatotopic correspondence of specific parts of the body to specific parts of the ear was first developed in France. It is this integrated system of Chinese and Western practices of auricular acupuncture which is presented. 

Lekomat apparatus cures chronic diseases and is particularly effective in diseases of the nervous system, bronchitis, asthma, allergies, stress. apparatus Home treatment is all I LEKOMAT, fully automatic, finds all the disturbances and automatically selects the appropriate acupuncture points through which performs treatment. It is used 2-3 times a day for 20-30 minutes. 

Visit the site http://lekomat.org , it lets you expirience pain and disease relief in the comfort of your own home. Medicomat a fully automatic apparatus for home cure, alternative therapy, pain treatment and healthcare at home . 