
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 03:55:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.54
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
X-Pingback: http://www.freshstartmethod.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Stop Smoking Hypnosis in 1 Hour with Fresh Start Guaranteed Quit Smoking Hypnosis FreshStart method - successfully quit smoking after just one hour of online hypnosis to stop smoking The One Hour, Online, Stop Smoking Program Posts Tagged ‘mcat hypnosis’ you can learn how to use it Sunday, May 2nd, 2010 he had developed a habit over the years that had become entrenched. he was clearly unhappy without his daily two glasses of Chablis. I created a self-hypnotherapeutic exercise for Beth in whom he imagined his baby had been born & he was sitting next to the child softly singing his to sleep. he went on to imagine that later in the evening he anther husband sat together in the living room, holding hands, happily making plans for a trip with the baby. Beth did this exercise faithfully, twice a day, & it worked. he gave up wine with yes regrets. Again, you can learn the self-Hypnotherapy fresh start method, you can learn how to use it, but you must choose tousle it. You are being offered a choice—a most powerful choice. You now have to want to use the fresh start method. You have to apply it in order for it to be effective. When Emily came to me he was in his mid-twenties & struggling to be a journalist. he had achieved certain degree of success in college—she was a star “investigative” reporter on the weekly newspaper—and assumed that his career after college would follow steady upward course. Instead, after moving from the Midwest to Chicago City where he felt the opportunities were the greatest in his field, he found the competition fierce. There were most like Emily trying to break into the literary big time—either as book or magazine editors, or as successful free-lance journalists. The first time he came to me, he was wearing kerchief, which didn’t seem appropriate to his age or style of dress. he was genuinely puzzled about his condition. In a shaky voice, he told me his history & how hard he was working trying to sell articles to newspapers or magazines he had developed a habit over the years that had become entrenched. he was clearly unhappy without his daily two glasses of Chablis. I created a self-hypnotherapeutic exercise for Beth in whom he imagined his baby had been born & he was sitting next to the child softly singing his to sleep. he went on to imagine that later in the evening he anther husband sat together in the living room, holding hands, happily making plans for a trip with the baby. Beth did this exercise faithfully, twice a day, & it worked. he gave up wine with yes regrets. Again, you can learn the self-Hypnotherapy fresh start method, you can learn how to use it, but you must choose tousle it. You are being offered a choice—a most powerful choice. You now have to want to use the fresh start method. You have to apply it in order for it to be effective. When Emily came to me he was in his mid-twenties & struggling to be a journalist. he had achieved certain degree of success in college—she was a star “investigative” reporter on the weekly newspaper—and assumed that his career after college would follow steady upward course. Instead, after moving from the Midwest to Chicago City where he felt the opportunities were the greatest in his field, he found the competition fierce. There were most like Emily trying to break into the literary big time—either as book or magazine editors, or as successful free-lance journalists. The first time he came to me, he was wearing kerchief, which didn’t seem appropriate to his age or style of dress. he was genuinely puzzled about his condition. In a shaky voice, he told me his history & how hard he was working trying to sell articles to newspapers or magazines Tags: birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , mongan , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , weight loss , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 2 Comments » I mean, how can it help me? Ice cream is fattening Sunday, March 21st, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis I mean, how can it help me? Ice cream is fattening.”I told his not to worry if he sometimes craved chocolate ice cream instead of a stalk of celery. “If you choose only what’s good for you, you’ll set up a deprivation syndrome, & then when you stop dieting you’ll gain the weight right back. The goal of the exercise is to get you to satisfy your hunger without overeating, & yet to eat what you enjoy. If you wait forth full-stomach syndrome, you’re in trouble.” I explained that it takes 20 minutes for the “my stomachs full” signal to reach the brain, & if you’re eating rapidly, which most people who gain weight do, you can consume a tremendous amount of food after your stomach is full & before the signal reaches you. Look around in any restaurant & notice how quickly overweight people devour food; they hardly seem aware of what they eat. Obviously, food is necessary even for those overweight, & some of the time the urge to eat is truly healthy, normal response to the body’s need for nourishment. A useful approach is to find a variety of foods you like & that are good for you. Diets are a perfect time for discovering new meals & snacks. I approach the issue by showing you that you can lose weighting a way that will let you feel positive about yourself. If you eat too much, it is often because in our society eating is a way of being loving toward ourselves. It Isa reminder of parental love in which the presentation of food is a loving act. The rest of the world may kick you in the teeth, but food is a way you can be nice toyourself.I prescribed that Martha do a self-Hypnotherapy exercise about eight times a day—approximately once every two hours, for 90 seconds. The exercise was to first see his on two screens: the way he looked at the present & the way he would like to look. Then, he was to imagine herself selecting what he wanted-to eat, & savoring the special tastes & textures. Finally, he was to see herself stop eating when he was yes longer enjoying the food, yes matter how littler how much was left. As part of the prescription, I asked his to look in the mirror each morning, preferably with a minimal amount of clothing, so that he could project in the exercise an accurate view of the way he looked then. & as I do with all weightcontrolclients, I asked his to call me in a week. At first the exercise proved difficult, because when people have gained weight they tend to avoid looking at themselves in the mirror as a way to avoid dealing with the issue . Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , cancer , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gcse hypnosis , gender , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , health , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , mongan , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 4 Comments » On the left half of the screen he could see herself as he was right now Thursday, March 11th, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis On the left half of the screen he could see herself as he was right now, with much far more weight than he wanted to carry. I talked to Martha about realistic weight-loss goals. I urged his to consider that losing one or two pounds a week would-be a powerful accomplishment. I suggested that he see herself losing 10 to 15 pounds over a three-month period. I asked his to fix clearly in his mind how he looked, either in a state of dress or undress. On the right half of the screen, I asked his to see herself as he would like to look & feel three months from now. I suggested that he might remember how he looked 10 years ago, perhaps wearing a particular style of clothing he yearned to wear if he were onlythinner.Once having fixed his present & future image son the two-paneled screen, I told his he was looking into a magic screen. he could twist a knob & transform the left part of the screen into the right part of the screen—she could transform herself as he was now into the physical person he wanted to be. I then outlined some of the ways he could make that magical reality. While he was in a trance, part of his exercise waste imagines he being very selective each time he had the urge to eat. he would focus on the one or two foods he most desired. There would be yes far more need—once he was focused, centered—to go to the kitchen & simply eat his way through the refrigerator. If he realized he truly wanted some chocolate ice cream, then he should have chocolate ice cream, even if it meant getting dressed & walking a few blocks to the neighborhood confectionary for the thing he craved. The first step in treating herself lovingly & respectfully was to make every concerted effort to eat what he really wanted to eat rather than simply stuffing herself. Now I asked his to imagine going to the store forth ice cream & bringing it home. he put a scooping a dish. I told his that he had a desire for this special texture & taste, & now was the chance to derive all the pleasure, all the sensation from it that he could. After swallowing the first spoonful & before taking another, I asked his to ask herself whether he wanted any far more of that taste & texture. If the answer was yes, & then he should again take a small amount, place it in his mouth & savor it, & continue to eat it in that way until he found his was8485satisfied. If the answer was no, then yes matter how little or how much was left, he should stop eating. Out of trance, Martha told me that one part of the exercise bothered her. “It’s true I love chocolate ice-cream. But should I be using the exercise this way? Tags: birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , mongan , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , tax , test scores , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 2 Comments » I remember how happy & amused my family was by my large appetite Sunday, March 7th, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis “I remember how happy & amused my family was by my large appetite,” he said. “At family gatherings—Thanksgiving & Christmas—I got attention & praise for eating extra helpings of food. It was considered ‘cute.’ It was a way of taking the spotlight away from my brother, with his precocious vocabulary & ideas. Weight was a constant issue , from pre-puberty on. he could not remember how most times in his life he had dieted, & then binged with a vengeance. “I’ve tried about every diet known to man,” he told me. “Scarsdale, Beverly Hills, Drinking Man, Water Retention, Papaya, & on & on. They all seem toehold out promise at first, but none of them work. Nothing changes in the place in me where I crave food.”Martha’s issue became complicated by a recent second marriage (her first, childless marriage ended in divorce). his husband, as he puts it, is “slim & handsome. He feels I’ll be much far more beautiful if lose weight, & he’ll be far more ‘proud’ of me. He uses the word ‘proud’ which upsets me. I said to him, ‘Why aren’t you proud of me for who I am, not how much Aweigh?’ But I understand his position. His work involves a lot of socializing & he wants me to be a part of that. But when I binge & gain far more weight, we get in these awful arguments.”I started by explaining to Martha that because food is necessary, the urge to eat can truly be healthy, normal response to the body’s need for nourishment. Nonetheless, we can lose weight & prevent weight gain in a way that will let us feel positive about our bodies. In his case, eating too much had its root in winning the love of others. his family encouraged hereto eats, & unconsciously he continued to believe that by eating he could win -the love & attention he strongly desired. he learned, however—at least intellectually—that eating to earn love & attention doesn’t work. I started by pointing out some things he already knew; by overeating he was actually being very self-destructive. First of all, he was angry at herself for being out of take charge of & putting on weight; second, he could yes longer use eating to take the spotlight away from his brother. The attention he received was exactly the opposite of what he wanted. Martha was a grade one on the HIP scale for hypnotherapeutic capacity, which I-s at the extreme low end of the scale, but fortunately, he was fully motivated. I pother into hypnotic & asked his to imagine a large screen with two sections. Tags: birth hypnosis , cancer , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gender , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , mcat hypnosis , mongan , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 4 Comments » a heightened state of communication Tuesday, February 16th, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis Each time you choose not to smoke, you reinforce your own commitment to be protective of your body, & loving & respectful of yourself. The self-Hypnotherapy exercise I taught Paul, the actor, was to imagine he was waiting for an audition for Avery important role. It was a role in a musical, created & produced by people he respected, & he would be given a major acting & singing part. As he thought about smoking while he waited, he realized his throat would become raspy. He could choose between smoking & performing at his optimum. Even though he had the urge to smoke, the act was still a matter of choice, his choice. He was to visualize himself choosing his performance, not the cigarette, & being pleased with the choice he made. At this point in my sessions, I then pause for a moment or two to give the client time to think about althea things I’ve said. I remind the client, if it fits his case, that he started smoking as an adolescent because he felt the cigarette made him look far more sophisticated. Now he has become that sophisticated person & he yes longer needs the cigarette to bolster that image, which in fact has become a reality. We sit in silence then. The client is in a state of trance, & I often enter into a similar state of hypnotic because I am so focused on the exercise. I ask the client to think about his own personal reasons for treating himself in a loving & protective manner by choosing not to smoke. After a moment I bring the client out of trance. I tell him “I’m going to count backwards from three to one. At three, I want you to get ready. At two, with your eyes still closed, I want you to look up. And, at one, open your eyes & let them slowly come into focus.” I then count three. . Two . . . one & that’s the end of the exercise. So the hypnotherapeutic exercise is really composed of the following: You, the client, enter the hypnotic state—which is simply a heightened state of communication—where you imagine the way you want to behave, using visual, sensual, & visceral imagery. Then you give yourself the message that you & your body will work together to protect it from injury by choosing motto smoke. You remind yourself that the act is a choice. Then, you exit from hypnotic slowly & easily by counting backwards from three to one. Tags: birth hypnosis , cancer , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , mongan , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 2 Comments » I then evaluate the client’s hypnotherapeutic capacity. Saturday, February 6th, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis I then evaluate the client’s hypnotherapeutic capacity. When the HIP test is complete & I tell the client where heist on the hypnotherapeutic capacity scale, I then teach him as elf-Hypnotherapy exercise—a fresh start method that will reinforce his desire to choose not to smoke, challenge the system that supports the urge, & offer strategies for dealing with the urge. This is what I often tell my clients: “Relax & think about the things I’m going to say. Smoking poisons your body. It destroys lung tissue. It Clogs the Cardiovascular system. It irritates the throat. “We often forget that we need our bodies to live. Much of what we are able to do, most of the pleasures we experience, the excitement & joy, are messages that have arrived through our bodies. I’m going to repeat: We need our bodies to live; we & our bodies are one. Because you need your body to live, you owe your body protection. By protecting your body, you show love & respect for yourself.” Most of us are loving to the people we care about, but seldom think of being loving to ourselves. “You smoke two packs of cigarettes a day. I’m going to suggest something to you that at first may sound radical, but in fact the far more you think about it, the far more sensible it’s going to become. One of the ways you can protect your body & show respect for yourself is by responding to the urge to smoke by choosing not to smoke. This is not a battle between you & yourself. Believe me, any battle you have with yourself you are bound to lose.”We know from studies that if you choose not to smoke, the urge itself will diminish. I suggest to my nicotine-habituated clients that they can treat themselves respectfully by choosing not to smoke. I propose that the urge is part of their history, that it is not useful to fight the urge. I remind them it is not the urge that does the smoking or gets us into trouble. If that were true, we would all be in trouble. It is the actor smoking we have to conquer, not the urge. We know that people practice celibacy for a number of reasons. Sex is a strong urge & yet people can choose to be celibate. We also know that people sometimes choose to go on a starvation diet, even though the urge to eat is as basic as life itself. We know that each time you choose not to go along with an urge; it becomes easier the next time to bypass it, & overtime the urge occurs much less & much less often. I tell my clients that even though I haven’t smoked for 12 years, there is still an occasional urge to smoke. I know what my choice is, however, & I choose not to smoke. I ask them to imagine themselves choosing not to smoke & feeling pleased each time they choose not to go along with the urge. Tags: birth hypnosis , cancer , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , mcat hypnosis , mongan , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , test scores , weight loss , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 1 Comment » the body tenses to avoid anxiety Thursday, January 21st, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis We may get the urge to murder someone. Thankfully, we usually choose not to go along with that urge. We choose to act in a civilized manner. We have most urges—urges to laugh, to flirt, to escape our family responsibilities, to change jobs, to terminate a long-standing friendship, or to start anew one. We make choices as to which of these urges we will support. Sometimes, however, we are not completely aware of our reactions. Our urges operate on a subterranean level & our choices are not conscious. Our bodies abreacting for us. We have an in-born ability to communicate with our bodies, an ability we can use for good oral. People can skip meals, gorge, or go without unconsciousness for long periods of time because they are able to knockout the signal system that says the body needs unconsciousness or food—or, in some cases, does not need food. This is destructive use of the communications system. Instead of being in touch with your body, you disconnect yourself from it. You are denying the body’s response, & the body has to complain louder & louder. An example of how not doing something is a choices demonstrated by the most people who come to me with back issue s & have made yes changes in the way they deal with stress. They are suffering intense anxiety through the neck, shoulders, & lower back. Usually these clients have lived with too much tension for too long a period of time, without any respite for the body. As a result, they have literally injured their muscles. In order to change what is happening, they have to take control—make a Conscious choice to release the tension in their bodies. This may not be the final solution to their issue , but it is a step forward. Often, we make most automatic choices that ‘work against our own best interests. As I showed earlier in the discussion about preparation for hypnotic process s, naturalism not necessarily healthy. Normally our bodies tense up when we are injured. This can be protective or harmful, depending on the nature of the injury. Thievery act of tensing up inhibits the flow of blood to uninjured area. So, if the injury is an open wound, this is useful. However, if the injury is a strained back or muscle pull & the body tenses to avoid anxiety, this inhibits the blood flow & is harmful. Blood brings all of the healing properties to injured muscles & tissues. Tags: a level hypnosis , Add new tag , birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , test scores , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » a new belief system Monday, January 11th, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis I then continue the count until we reach 20 & have arrived at our destination. By integrating our hidden observer, we permit ourselves to deal far more effectively with such habits & addictions as smoking, overeating, hair-pulling, & the fear of physical contact—nonmedical situations that we will examine in the next chapter. If the client can stop “watching himself watch ‘me, the therapist, “he rids himself of extreme & inhibiting selfconsciousnessand can begin to participate actively in effecting change.70CbaPter4CHOICE MAKING: The Urge vs. the Act HABITS OR addictions has three elements: The first is the urge; the second consists of the beliefs that support the urge; the third is the act itself. Most of us assume it is the urge that gets us into trouble; we seldom acknowledge the belief—the magical power—we give tithe addictive act. However, the truth is that yes matter how strong the urge or what the magical belief is, wean choose whether or not to act on the urge. Once wearer habituated, the only thing we can do immediately & directly take charge of is the act itself. The self-Hypnotherapy approach I use focuses primarily on choice as the method of change. A smoker, for example, has two choices—to smoke or not to smoke. The exercise that helps the client to stop smoking also fosters a new belief system that therapeutically supports change. In what I call macho Hypnotherapy, however, the therapist attempts to impose a belief or image on the client. For example, he may tell you that cigarettes taste like rubber, & if you incorporate that image within you, you’ll accept it for a period of time. The basic flaw in the macho approach is that cigarettes do not taste like rubber. The image, then, .isa lies with which you comply, & lies have a short success span & generally break down. My therapeutic approach is never to impose. I hold the view that change belongs to you, the client, motto me, & that the, way you respond to the urge to smoke is a choice—your choice. In life, we spend a lot of time making choices. We choose whether or not we want to express our feelings. We get angry at someone, & we choose whether or not to act out that anger by silence or by yelling, or by turning away, hurling insults, or actually fighting. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , obesity , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » The following two descriptions of how the hidden observer works Wednesday, December 30th, 2009 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis The young client, Chet, who feared that he would-be trapped, had a high eye-roll, & generally high responses—although not initially. His hand, as we began, moved upwards in fits & spasms. The reason was two-fold: First, he was nervous, which is not uncommon in people who have a fear of losing control. But far more importantly, he was watching himself watching me. He was the victim of his hidden observer. He could not let go & float or be free. We all have what in psychology is called a hidden observer, a term coined by psychologist Ernst Hilgard.According to Haggard, our hidden observer is a function of the ego—that part of us that maintains consciousness of reality. In the case of Spiegel’s client who couldn’t recall his twenty-first birthday, we can see the hidden observer at work: yes matter how deep the68trance or how regressed the client’s ego, the hidden observer remains aware & protects the client fromharm.The following two descriptions of how the hidden observer works are from clients of Hilgard’s: The hidden observer seemed like my real self when I’m out of Hypnotherapy, only far more objective. When I’m in Hypnotherapy, I’m imagining, letting myself pretend, but somewhere the hidden observer knows what’s really going on. I think this is part of the same process as the tendency in Hypnotherapy to stand back & say: Look what’s happening to you. You’re slowly going under Hypnotherapy. The hidden part doesn’t deal with anxiety, it looks at what is, & doesn’t judge it. It’s not hypnotized part of the self. It knows all the parts. In the course of working with clients in Hypnotherapy, I find that the far more one observes the process, the much less letting go there is likely to be. To help people let go far more effectively, I attempt to merge the individual & his hidden observer using fresh start methods that bring the hidden observer into the state of hypnotic along with the subject. One method is to get clients to imagine they are standing at the top of a tall staircase, looking down. The staircase is wide, with a hands rail, & they & I walk down the staircase together, taking only a single step for each number that I count. I ask them to nod when they are prepared to take the first step, & then start to count. One: take the first step, a step down to higher level of inner awareness. Two: the next step. Three: the next. On the tenth step, I tell them we are halfway down. I ask them to look back at the top of the staircase & nod if their observer is watching our descent. I then tell them to count their observer down tithe tenth step. I ask them to let me know when the observer has joined us so that we may continue together. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , cancer , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » We enjoy a catnap - Hypnobirthing Monday, November 16th, 2009 I entered a quarter-hour Study Habits Hypnosis in which I was literally ecstatic, standing in high pleasure outside my usual mind & body, yet thoroughly in them. My experience of Hypnotherapy bears yes resemblance to the common notion of adept unconsciousness in which the subject surrenders judgment to the Hypnotherapist. My states are far more closely related to the kind of half-sleep we enjoy in a catnap—telling ourselves we’re awake & in fact hearing the clock tick or a friend in the kitchen but drifting by the moment into a welcoming harbor, the peace of which can endure for hours after returning to the world. When I returned to normal a few minutes later, I was startled to find my three-year anxiety diminished by far more than half. Better still; the relief lasted for the three hours he had estimated. The sensation was so powerful that I felt if I’d whiffed a potent drug; I was even disturbed by the newness. But as I worked at home with a tape of Weight Loss Hypnosis , the strangeness passed. & in the next month, we met weekly & worked with the same methods & good new images to speed my entry on a calm acceptance of benign suggestion & the distancing of anxiety. Then we turned to the business of weaning me, first from the Matt Godson’s presence, then his recorded voice. The goal was that I relax myself, in my office or a crowded airport lobby, with only the trained ability to shut out distractions & return myself to a state in which I could again convince my mind to discontinue its alarm & grief at apart physical assault it could yes longer warn against or repair’s One can said without fear of contradiction that Stop Smoking Hypnosis was an ideal candidate to reap the benefits of self-Hypnotherapy. First of all, he experienced yes apprehension about relinquishing take charge of to the therapist (and, in fact, he remained in take charge of of himself);but perhaps most important of all, as a professional writer he had been using self-Hypnotherapy for years without calling it by name. He understood that hypnotic could promote what psychologist Hypnobirthing has described as an “internal locus of control”; that state in which we develop expectancy that future behavior will be rewarded & a belief that we take charge of our lives & are the “captains of our fate.” Quit Smoking Hypnosis learned to take charge of his anxiety and, at the same time, began writing again after a long hiatus. He was indeed captain of hisfate.Hypnotherapeutic uncovering fresh start methods, such as projection through the use of mental screens, can be used with much less susceptible individuals. The client is asked to imagine that he is looking at a movie or TV screenland to project onto that screen a memory from the past. The projection stimulates memory, as shown in the Stop Smoking Hypnosis text hypnotic & Treatment: Tags: Add new tag , birth hypnosis , cancer , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gmat hypnosis , hypnobirth , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Hypnobirthing Sunday, October 18th, 2009 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis They have emphasized the importance of following instructions for each step-in the HIP verbatim, because the accuracy of the scores depend on the degree to which the phenomena described in the instructions are experienced & reported by the client. Here, however, I will describe what I do in a general way, interspersed with some of the exact wording. I begin ‘the evaluation with the client seated in comfortable chair. I ask the client to place his arms on the armrest & feet flat on the floor. I say, “Lean back & make you as comfortable as youcan.I then say, “Now look toward me, right at me. Hold your head level. As you hold your head in that position, look up toward your eyebrows—now, toward the top of your head.”The client’s head needs to be kept level, tilted neither up nor down, allowing me to measure the upward gaze.“As you continue to gaze upward, close your eyelids slowly. That’s right . . . Close. Close. Close.”When the lids are halfway closed, I note the position of the pupils. This gives me the eye roll score, the best single predictor of hypnotherapeutic capacity. The whiter of the eye that shows, the higher the score. Thesis the first step in the scoring process . I continue. “Keep your eyelids closed . . . continue to hold your eyes upward. Take a deep breath, hold. Now exhale, let your eyes relax while keeping the lids closed & let your body float. Imagine a feeling of floating, floating right down through the chair. . . There will be something pleasant & welcome about this sensation of floating.”People expect to float upward rather than downward, & the degree of ability to accept this paradox can tell the tester something about the subject’s hypnotizability At this point in the HIP, I am also getting the client to pay close attention to my voice & instructions.“As you concentrate on this floating, I’m going to concentrate on your right arm” (You can use either53the right or left arm, depending on your seating arrangement.)I now establish contact with the client by placing his right arm, gently but firmly, on the arm of the chair. Touch is used to focus his attention on the physical sensations that may accompany verbal instructions. Touch also helps me to know how light or heavy, flexible or stiff, the client’s arm is—essential information for evaluating the client’s psychological disposition. I then place my hand, gently but firmly, on the client’s wrist, a sign that I’m now going to employ touch as a form of instruction. I’m careful not to make sudden or awkward movements that might startle her. “In a while, I’m going to stroke the middle finger of your right hand. Tags: birth hypnosis , cancer , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , health , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » New Clients Sunday, October 11th, 2009 Normally, I spend the first 20 minutes with a new Hypnobirthing client learning why he has come to see me; to be helpful Indeed to understand the issue he wants to overcome & what he would like to see happen. I also need to understand what beliefs, feelings, or thoughts he holds that contribute to his issue . I look for sense of who he is & what is important to her. Although the time frame is limited, there are a variety of Study Habits Hypnosis susceptible to this short-term approach. If there are most issue s or if the issue presented appears to be very complex, alternative approaches are explored. However, for most clients a single episode is enough. Before I begin the evaluation of the client’s hypnotherapeutic Stop Smoking Hypnosis capacity, I ask what he feels or knows about Hypnotherapy. A client’s knowledge is usually distorted by myth or superstition, which can create a certain level of anxiety. Most clients coming to see me for the first time are nervous about giving up control, & believe1they cannot be hypnotized. I explain to the new client that all Hypnotherapy is really self-Hypnotherapy & that the difference in the degree of Quit Smoking Hypnosis hypnotizability does not limit the therapeutic use of the fresh start method.Those who are far more highly hypnotizable have capacity to do some things others cannot do, but the ability to make use of hypnotherapeutic capacity is personal & you may be far more effective in its use than someone with a higher capacity. Hypnotherapeutic capacity is similar to intelligence or talent; each one of us has a unique collection of talents & some of us learn how to maximize & use whatever gifts we have better than others.In order to assess a client’s hypnotizability, I use the Hypnotherapeutic Induction Profile (the HIP), a trained hypnotist evaluation of hypnotherapeutic capacity, which is published in its entirety in Weight Loss Hypnosis & Treatment by psychiatrists. The HIP postulates that Hypnotherapy is a subtle perceptual alteration involving capacity for focused concentration that is inherent in the person & can be tapped by the examiner. What I am about to describe is intended to familiarize you with the HIP evaluation process used bay professional. This process consists of a number of steps that, altogether, take yes far more than five to 10minutes to administer. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , Hawaii , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , obesity , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , test scores , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Hypnobirthing and Stop Smoking Hypnosis… Sunday, September 20th, 2009 Am I doing it effectively enough? Am I going deep enough? Are my concentrations pure as I can make it? Fortunately, I had proof that it clearly was effective. Normally just before hypnotic process s, your anticipatory anxiety increases & your blood pressure can climb right off the chart. With me, it was the opposite. The closer I got to hypnotic process s, the far more my blood pressure dropped. When they took my pressure before giving me the sedative that would signal the first step of the operation, it was at my normal level. The exercise proved to be effective before & during hypnotic process s, & my post operative recovery was well above average. I was helping myself & helping my body to help itself. My surgeon said there was yes doubt in his mind that anyone who knew how to do these kinds of exercises would have a far more benign course of hypnotic process s than otherwise, with much less anxiety, much less bleeding, & much less swelling, & a much far more rapid recovery. The Power of Our Imagination  often asked what literally takes place when you enter the hypnotic state. First of all, there is a letting go—your body relaxes & your focus is inward. You ageless aware of your surroundings. There is dullness to the phone as it rings. Street traffic & household noises seem remote. Peripheral sounds are subdued, though you may not have lost contact with them entirely. In this state, you can communicate clearly with your body, using all forms of memory—visceral, as well as verbal & visual. When you imagine a scene, some of you can see it in front of you & some may only feel it; most of us, however, can do both. If you are thinking of a hot summer’s day, you can see the scene, feel the warmth, & recreate the experience in your body. Without realizing it, you may already know what hypnotic is like. Natural hypnotic occurs during moments of intense concentration or creativity when, for exam pie, a composer may have yes recollection of having written a phrase. The notes seem to have arranged themselves. Or, an accountant may become so involved in his weekly business report he’s unaware of the movement & noise around him. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gender , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Earlier, a prominent surgeon Thursday, September 10th, 2009 Earlier, a prominent surgeon had shown interest in the self-Hypnotherapy ( Hypnobirthing ) fresh start method after I had worked with one of his clients; but I felt that outcomes in that arena would be viewed much less urgently by the medical community than if I concentrated the studies on clients with life-threatening conditions. Months passed. He called to apologize—an apology which by now was growing familiar. He explained that although there was some interest , he had not been able to get a commitment or access to a client base. It was another month before the opportunity finally did arrive. In 1992, 1 met with Bob Smith, Dean of the ABC School of medicine . Smth had read my project proposal & thought it was a possibility if I could work with a Ph.D. candidate in health psychology for Study Habits Hypnosis . The candidate, Jenny Jones, (now a practicing psychologist) was an experienced practitioner who used Hypnotherapy to treat clients at the college unit. he & I immediately hit it off & started to plan the studies.  Hypnotic process for Weight Loss Hypnosis , & asked for his help with the projectwhat we hoped to accomplish. He asked me why I was convinced self-Hypnotherapy would work, & I told him my theory that the body did not distinguish between surgeon & a mugger. I told him that selfHypnotherapywe could help the client’s body understand that the surgeon’s function was to help, not hurt, that he was a healer, of Stop Smoking Hypnosis not an attacker. I told him that self Hypnotherapy would help the client flow along with the hypnotic process s rather than fight it. Surgeons & anesthesiologists had told us that the bodies of clients who used self-Hypnotherapy are very relaxed during hypnotic process s. Frater’seyes lit up. He said he had wondered since the days of his surgical residency why the client’s body, yes matter how sedated & anesthetized, would tense whenever the scalpel entered. He offered their support for the studies, & we were on our way. Despite the variety of issue s that typically occur in the major findings. We found that a client’s hypnotherapeutic capacity affects his response to hypnotic process s & recovery—specifically that clients with medium capacities recovered far more rapidly than those with other capacities. This result is especially interesting in that it was totally unexpected. Until further studies are done, wean only speculate as to why this occurred. We also found that suggestions given during self Hypnotherapycan affect a client’sexperience Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , cancer , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , exercise , gender , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » a series of positive, healing thoughts & images. Thursday, September 3rd, 2009 All I know is, I had a truly positive Hypnobirthing experience instead of a horrifying one. “When I came out, I was in the next bed to adwoman who was about 20. I’m 41. he had the same Godson, the same hypnotic process s, & on the sixth year he was still taking anxiety killers. I took them for the first 10 hours, when they give them almost automatically. Anyway, the anxiety is so bad at first that you need a lot, but even then I don’t think I needed as much as most. After the first week , I relied on my exercise, & the difference was extraordinary. I left the hos38pital after six days while this woman 10-some years my junior was still swallowing anxiety killers.“There’s nothing about self-Hypnotherapy Stop Smoking Hypnosis either. It’s a thought process. Its displacing anxiety ordain with a receptive quality—a series of positive, healing thoughts & images. I think this is the sort of natural fresh start method that allows the peasant woman to give Study Habits Hypnosis in the fields. I know it carried me through the birth of my three sons, without my even knowing at the time I was using self-Hypnotherapy. Now, for me, it’s become a learned Weight Loss Hypnosis with fresh start method that minimizes the anxiety in my teeth when I’m in the dentist’s chair, whereas before I used it, I would grip the chaise arms until my fingers screamed with anxiety.“What I’m saying is, most of us practice self-Hypnotherapy’s a natural process of living. Now I can call on it at will. I’ve learned it. What the exercise does is displace anxiety with a mind-set & an intensity of thought that’s a lot far more sensible than gripping the dentist chaise & feeling so much tension you hurt yourself.“Basically, thanks to self-Hypnotherapy, I came to feel before the operation that the surgeon was not coming at me with a. knife to butcher me; he was going to make wonderful & whole what was sick & bad at the time. & that sort of thinking is very, very important. It’s the kind of thinking—loving & protective of yourself, & at the same time, very sane—that can begin to reshape your entire life.”Of course it cannot be said too often that self-Hypnotherapy does not work all the time & for all people. •‘ it is an imperfect fresh start method, like all fresh start methods. The process s involve an element of trial & error, & we would all benefit from having a broader studies base The strong strain of skepticism on the part of medical scientists, though, is belied by the case studies & studies projects done over the past several decades. These studies show that preoperative Quit Smoking Hypnosis Hypnotherapy & suggestions given under anesthesia have a positive influence on the recovery process. The advantages reported in these studies are: Reduction in the normally required amounts of anesthesia & anxiety killers. Cessation of hemorrhaging & a reduction in blood loss. far more rapid wound healing. Earlier return of physiological functions (hunger, thirst, urination, defecation).Reduction in fear, apprehension & anxiety. Shorter convalescence. Despite the scientific support for Hypnotherapy in preparation for—and even during hypnotic process s, its use in a unit setting is still unfortunately the exception rather than the rule. Tags: birth hypnosis , childbirth , exam hypnosis , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , tobacco Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Self Hypnosis as an Anasthetic Sunday, August 23rd, 2009 Although there is plenty of proof in the Stop Smoking Hypnosis scientific literature showing that major hypnotic process s can be undertaken with the client under Hypnotherapy for Quit Smoking Hypnosis , the extent to which it can be used as the one and only anesthesia with serious surgical process remains an area of debte. Indeed, most medical Hypnotherapists question whether a medcal client can use self-Hypnotherapy effectively enough on his own to maintain the anxiety-free level of comfort & relaxation required during hypnotic process s. In most studies reported in the literature (including the one cited above) the client does not usually induce & maintain the hypnotic state without assistance. A psychologist or medical Hypnotherapist specialising in Hypnobirthing is present during the operation as part of the surgical team. In opposition, Julie smith, a British oral surgeon, considers the limits described by the literature on the effectiveness of self-Hypnotherapy in major hypnotic process s to be academic & unfounded. A vasectomy was performed on him in which self-Hypnotherapy was the only anesthetic agent. Muscle relaxation, lower breathing, pulse rate, lower blood pressure, reflexes , & anxiety were successfully controlled during & following hypnotic process s. Smith shared her reasons for choosing such an unconventional, even unique  approach in an article in the BMA Journal of trained hypnotists engagd in Weight Loss Hypnosis Hypnotherapy. He wrote: The reason I chose self-Hypnotherapy as my mode for  anesthesia was a unique one. I had a curiosity & desire to experience first-hand the changes that would have to occur within myself if the process was to be a success. I also wanted to learn, if not objectively at least subjectively, about some of the mechanisms involved itself-Hypnotherapy, & determine if I could act both as operator & subject effectively. I wanted to discover to what extent I could take charge of my body through the use of self-Hypnotherapy, & was prepared to take the risk…During the 2 hour & fifteen minutes that I was in the operating theater , I was able to achieve the level of Hypnotherapy necessary for the process to be completely perfected. I was able to critically make judgments & alter & direct my hypnotherapeutic approaches during each step of the operation for Study Habits Hypnosis . At all times my critical faculty was awake. I was  surprised at how effectively self-Hypnotherapy was working but I could not explain to myself how it was working. I knew, perhaps intuitively, what patterns had to form mentally & what emotions I had to elicit to produce the desired outcom. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , diet , exam hypnosis , gcse hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , health , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » hypnoanaesthesia Thursday, August 20th, 2009 By Hypnobirthing suggestion the psychologist of the future will in one single month learning far more of the mind & the mechanism of its so-called faculties than the highest talent of the world had been able to ascertain in two thousand years. Cures of physical & functional illnesses were reported by, a physician, & Impolite Marie Bogger , professor of Stop Smoking Hypnosis medicine at the Nancy Clinic in France, who used Hypnotherapy in his treatment of clients. Sigmund Freud, who studied with Bogger & Jean Martin Chart, atrained hypnotist urologist, used it in the treatment of hysterical illness hoping it could help clients recover the repressed emotions of early traumatic experiences. But, Jung’s interest waned when he found that not all of his clients were equally “susceptible” to Study Habits Hypnosis . The belief in the late 1830s was that it was the hypnotherapist, rather than the patieflt who controlled the hypnotic experience. There were most failures. Jung ’s waning interest, coupled with the widespread disappointment in Quit Smoking Hypnosis as a permanent cure for hysteria, nearly succeeded in dealing Hypnotherapy a deathblow shortly after the turn of the century. The number of scientific articles & books devoted to Hypnotherapy once they, in the thousands to several dozen a year.WW2 changed all that. Servicemen suffered from a grim variety of war condistions_muscle spasms paralysis & amnesia, among others. Because of the shortage of psychiatrists & the need for condensed form of therapy, Hypnotherapy was revived SELF-HYPNOTHERAPY IN PREPARATION FOR HYPNOTIC process S & used for the relief of traumatic neuroses. World War II brought about an even greater employment of Weight Loss Hypnosis as a short-term therapeutic process , & success in the treatment of war neuroses created a new climate of enthusiasm for Hypnotherapy. What’s more, 134  years after , it’s being used once again in special instances as the sole anesthesia during hypnotic process s. Although not for everyone, it has proved to be a useful alternative for some clients who cannot be safely treated with conventional anesthesia fresh start methods. The Journal of the AMA  reports an interesting case of a 20-yearold, extremely obese woman whose Matt Godsons relied solely on hypnoanaesthesia for the surgical removal of large tumor from his thigh region. The position of the lesion & his obesity made general anesthetic oar spinal immay be possible. Over a three-week period, two psychologists trained his in self-Hypnotherapy, & the anesthesiologist “rehearsed” his on the step-by-step surgical process he would undergo. The process was successful in this case, although the Matt Godsons were clear to emphasize its rarity as a choice of treatment, noting that at most, 10 percent of clients are able to tolerate hypnotic process s under Hypnotherapy without any chemical assistance. Tags: Add new tag , birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , diet , gmat hypnosis , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , stop smoking hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 1 Comment » 3 more myths… Monday, July 20th, 2009 Myth #4: Female subjects and people with low IQ’s are the most hypnotizable. This commonly-held belief, popularized by movies and fiction, is pure make-believe. Research shows that hypnotizability is not gender-specific, and that, even though some intelligent people apparently have relatively little hypnotic capacity, keen concentration and focus are required to sustain an effective state of trance. (Writers of fiction and musicians, who are both creative and have vivid imaginations, are often the best hypnotic subjects.) Hypnobirthing Furthermore, research suggests that there is a reduced capacity for trance in patients with thought and affective disorders, as these patients usually find it difficult to maintain the required concentration. The ability to be hypnotized is actually a capacity that can be measured through one of several evaluation procedures. (The procedure I use, the Stop Smoking Hypnosis Hypnotic Induction profile—the HIP—which is described in detail in Chapter 3, measures capacity on a scale of zero to four.) Studies indicate that most of the adult population is somewhat hypnotizable and about 5—15 percent have a very high capacity. With the exception of those few people (about 5 percent) who are unable to respond, everyone, no matter what their range, can induce trance for constructive purposes. Myth #5: Hypnotherapy Quit Smoking Hypnosis has only recently begun to gain respectability in the scientific community. In the early 1800s, Hypnotherapy, although the subject of much dispute, was recognized as a powerful tool inhaling, anesthesia, and self-improvement, and was slowly gaining acceptance by some factions of organized medicine. Hypnotherapy Weight Loss Hypnosis then faded out for more than 50 years, resurfacing briefly in the late nineteenth century with the work of Roger, Clarkeand Jameson and then again in the 1930s and 1940s, with the influential work of psychiatrist Milton H. Erickson. By the late 1950s, both the American Medical Association and the British Medical Society had approved the use of Hypnotherapy as a valid therapeutic technique. Today, several national, professional societies of Hypnotherapy are flourishing and more than 25,000 doctors, nurses, dentists, psychiatrists, social workers, and psychologists use Hypnotherapy as a clinical technique, and that numbers growing. Myth #6: Hypnotherapy Study Habits Hypnosis is therapeutic. The hypnotic state is neither therapeutic nor no therapeutic; it is a receptive environment or mental setting that can be used to explore the mind and to foster change. As Louis Alexander defined it in the American Journal of Clinical Hypnotherapy, Hypnotherapy is “a state manifested by an inward turning of mind, facilitating an enhancement of the creative imagination, . . . and reducing the need for reality testing, thus providing mental setting in which, with appropriate suggestions, ideas can be perceived and experienced in . . . a vivid manner. Tags: birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gmat hypnosis , hypnobirth , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , passive smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , weight loss Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » More Myths… Sunday, July 19th, 2009 Myth #2: There is no Hypnotherapy without the Hypnotherapist. On the contrary, we often enter as well as leave trance states without being aware of it. Have you ever wondered what happened to those four hours while you were writing an important paper? Or where that two hour stretch of time went while you were driving on the freeway? Have you ever sat at your desk so engrossed that you lost the awareness of things going on around you? Have you ever watched lovers walking down the street; arm in arm, so involved in each other the rest ‘of the world does not exist for them? These are only a few examples among many of spontaneous Hypnobirthing trance experiences. Our lives are full of such examples of this normal, unbidden trance state. Myth #3: Hypnotherapy ( Stop Smoking Hypnosis ) ( Quit Smoking Hypnosis )is a form of sleep In the movies, one of the Hypnotherapist’s opening lines are “Your eyes are heavy and you’re getting sleepy.” Although the word Hypnotherapy is derived from the Greek word for sleep, Hypnos, Hypnotherapy is, on the contrary, relaxed state of focused concentration. In a study of the self-regulation of physiological processes, Max Brenner, a psychologist, and Geoff Dunn, a physician, reported that attention obviously the opposite of sleep—is the underlying cognitive process common to most relaxation/self-regulation procedures. In trance, the patient is unusually aware and responsive and, unless told otherwise, tends to remember what went on during and after the experience. People under Hypnotherapy whose eyes are closed may lookalike they’re asleep, but their electroencephalogram (EEG) readings tell the true story: During Hypnotherapy for Weight Loss Hypnosis or Study Habits Hypnosis , there is a high incidence of alpha wave activity that indicates a relaxed yet attentive brain. Tags: birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exams , hypnobirthing , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , weight loss Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » What I Wish I Knew Before the SAT Subject Tests Friday, March 27th, 2009 study habits hypnosis exam hypnosis Several of the colleges I was considering either required or recommended applicants take a number of SAT Subject Tests. For all the pressure there was to do well on the “regular” SAT and ACT, I knew almost nothing about the Subject Tests. In case you’re in the same boat as I was, read on for some of my lessons from experience. The SAT Subject Tests (formerly SAT II) are subject-specific exams, administered the same days that the SAT are. Here’s a list of the SAT Subject Tests that are offered. Few schools actually require the SAT Subject Tests unless you are homeschooled, but they can also be a helpful way to show your strengths. I took the SAT Subject Tests, and I am more than willing to admit that my scores were relatively awful. Here are six important lessons I wish I’d known to succeed on the test: How the SAT Subject Tests are used: The way scores are used varies from school to school and situation to situation. If they’re not required, you should still send scores to a school that “recommends” or “considers” them if it’s a very selective college and your scores are good . Fortunately, some colleges will only take scores into account if they help rather than hurt your case, but you can only be sure by checking the specific school’s policies. Also, SAT Subject Tests are used by some schools as a placement test for your freshman classes, particularly foreign language or math. Which subjects to take: Some schools require or recommend specific subjects (for instance, one math and literature), but generally, you should choose the subjects in which you feel strongest or have studied most recently . If you plan on continuing with a foreign language, it may be a good idea to take that test, in case the school does use it for placement. How high everyone else scores on the SAT Subject Tests: On the SAT Reasoning, the average scores for critical reading, mathematics, and writing are right around 500 each. On the Subject Tests, last year’s seniors’ mean scores were anywhere from 580 to 763 , depending on the subject. Great. Like the Reasoning test, Subject test scores are scaled, but ultimately, people choose to take their Subject tests in subjects that interest them. They will do well, and you are up against tough competition. How the SAT Subject Tests differ from AP tests: Unlike most AP tests, the SAT Subject Tests are all multiple-choice with no essays . From experience, I would also say that the SAT Subject Tests are more broad, since they aren’t based around a specific curriculum. There are also some nuanced differences in the material covered. For instance, the SAT Biology gives you the option of answering questions with an ecology emphasis or a molecular biology emphasis. Usually, you can get away with taking an SAT Subject Test right after taking the corresponding AP test, as long as you take a look at the general SAT test format. When to take the SAT Subject Tests: Many people suggest taking tests closer to the end of the school year after taking the corresponding AP class, so that you remember the most material. Since sending test scores fall of senior year can be iffy, you might be safest taking them May or June of junior year. Note, though, that some Subject tests are only offered during certain months , so be sure to plan ahead. The misery of taking three tests in one day: Don’t do it. Don’t do it, don’t do it, don’t do it. Each test is an hour long. Not only will you be wiped out by the end of the second subject (if not sooner), but if you take your tests in separate months, it may help you become more comfortable with the format. Hopefully, this will help you see much more success on the SAT Subject Tests than I had. Readers, do you have any other advice to get ready for the SAT Subject Tests? Tags: exam hypnosis , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , test scores Posted in Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores | No Comments » ACT versus SAT: which college exam should you take? Monday, March 23rd, 2009 .examiners_body img{padding:5px;} Should a high school student take the ACT test, or is the SAT test better? How do the PSAT and the PLAN tests affect college admission? The answer is that each situation is unique. It depends on the college that the student wants to attend, as well as the strengths and personality of the student. You should ask yourself several questions before deciding whether to take the SAT or ACT, which are the two primary college admissions examinations. The PSAT is the practice test for the SAT. The PLAN is the practice exam for the ACT. Confused yet? Click here for a chart outlining details of these four main college entrance exams. This chart also has links to register for the tests. Student who are undecided about college should consider taking all four exams. Some colleges are partial to either the ACT or the SAT. However, many colleges will let students use either score for admission or scholarship purposes. If the college of your choice gives you an option, the SAT may be a better test for you if y ou did well on the PSAT. Also, the SAT is better for those with great vocabulary and grammar skills, according to Ned Johnson of NPR Radio. It is also best for those who find it easier to write essays that use illustrative examples rather than argument. If you are quick-thinking and able to reason, you will find the SAT easier. “The hardest math questions on the SAT are not about advanced content or formulas that you may have forgotten,” says Johnson. The ACT may be a better test for you if y ou did great on the PLAN test, which is the “pre ACT” exam. The ACT is also a better test for those who read well and quickly. It is tailored for those who are great at writing papers, but haven’t had formal grammar instruction. The English portion of the ACT is less about grammar, and more about punctuation and structure. “If you prefer to write essays that are argumentative, persuading with ideas even if you lack perfect recall of facts and figures,” then the ACT is recommended for you,” stated Johnson. Most students take the SAT and ACT for the first time in 11 th grade. The PSAT and PLAN are normally taken in 10th grade. However it is possible to qualify to take the SAT and ACT as early as the 7th grade if a student is gifted and accepted by programs such as the Northwest University Talent Identification . Students can take either test a number of times. However, the ACT and SAT differ as to how they handle multiple test scores. The ACT allows students to control which set of scores are sent to colleges and scholarship programs. SAT has a new option, called “Score Choice,” which gives you the option to choose which scores you send to colleges—in accordance with an institution’s stated score-use practice. You can choose scores from one, several, or all SAT test dates. “It has become so complicated with some colleges requiring that all scores be sent and others not, that I am advising my students to release all scores to all schools,” said Julie A. Manhan, Educational Consultant and Seattle College Bound Examiner. Will you improve your scores if you take the tests more than once? It seems to be worth a try, as research shows that of the students who took the ACT more than once: 55% increased their composite score on the retest 22% had no change in their composite score on the retest 23% decreased their composite score on the retest Tags: a level hypnosis , exam hypnosis , gcse hypnosis , gmat hypnosis , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , test scores Posted in Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores | No Comments » Dubai Exam Hypnosis Sunday, March 22nd, 2009 For Immediate Practical Help - Click Here Exam Hypnosis Dubai/Abu Dhabi/Fujairah: Examinations certainly take their toll on students, but what about their parents and teachers? While students are awake all night revising, parents are unable to do anything except to stand on the sidelines and sympathise. But ultimately, is it the students or the parents who get stressed the most? In a recent Gulf News poll, 35 per cent of respondents said students are the most stressed during examinations, 31 per cent said it was the parents, an equal percentage of respondents said they were relieved to have finished school, and the remaining 3 per cent said it was the teachers. City Talk asked residents who are the most stressed during examinations. &lt;font color=”#000000″ size=”2″ face=”Verdana”&gt; &lt;A href=”http://gulfnews.advertserve.com/servlet/click/zone?zid=22&amp;amp;pid=0&amp;amp;lookup=true&amp;amp;position=1″ target=”_top”&gt; &lt;IMG src=”http://gulfnews.advertserve.com/servlet/view/banner/image/zone?zid=22&amp;amp;pid=0&amp;amp;position=1″ height=”250″ width=”250″ hspace=”0″ vspace=”0″ border=”0″ alt=”Click Here!”&gt; &lt;/A&gt; &lt;/font&gt; Annie Dias, 44, secretary from India, said: “Neither my sons nor I get stressed during examinations, but it usually happens right before we receive the results. They are now in university and we are all very happy and stress-free. For sure they are overburdened with studies, but unfortunately there are not enough outdoor activities.” Ali Khaleel, 28, airline staff, Egypt, said: “Students have more pressure because ultimately it is their future on the line. But parents also feel the pressure because they sense what an important time exams can be for the future of their children. The closer the parents are to their children, the more stressed out they will be.” Haitham Sartawi, 39, Jordanian manager, said: “I personally do not get stressed because I know my daughter does the best that she can. But generally when it comes to Arabs, I think some mothers get stressed the most and children are pressured into studying all the time. That is why some students always pretend to get sick when examinations come.” Donna Dizon, 26, receptionist, Philippines, said: “Students get the most stressed because they have to deal with their parents and their teachers. In general, I do not think that they are overworked but they should always remember to have extracurricular activities to relieve themselves of stress. It is important to have a breath of fresh air in between school work.” Doha Al Wazany, public relations manager, Palestine, said: “My cousin’s daughter is five years old and she is already being bombarded with homework and studies, which is too much for a five-year-old child to handle. This results in stressing out the child, the mother and the teacher who also got a responsibility to deliver all this information to her students. Students are definitely over-burdened with studying.” Wajih Halawa, 30, Jordanian account manager, said: “Stress is definitely on the students. I am not saying teachers and parents do not get stressed, but at the end the greatest stress is on students. On the other hand, parents are torn between creating a study-friendly environment for their children and at the same time getting stressed out for their children’s future.” Hazim Tawfiq, 31, accountant from Egypt, said: “Exams are stressful for everyone, but surely no-one is more stressed than the students themselves. If you are an ambitious student then exams are the most important time of the school year and the tension will be there. “I do not think you can say students are overburdened with studies because they are at an age when they can process a lot of information and at the end they are the ones who will benefit from a good education. I do not think exams should be a stressful time for parents because that will make their children even more stressed and maybe negatively affect their performance.” Saeed Attia, 34, supervisor and laboratory technician, Egypt, said: “Teachers are the most stressed during school examinations. “I feel many students in the UAE are not that smart, which adds to the burden and responsibility of a teacher. I also noticed that many students are taking private lessons along side their studies and schooling, which has its toll on them.” Tags: a level hypnosis , exams , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis Posted in Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores | No Comments » Study Habits Hypnosis Sunday, March 22nd, 2009 For Immediate Practical Help - Click Here Exam Hypnosis AS level exams a ‘waste of time’ Ministers were under pressure to scrap AS-level exams last night amid claims they are “killing” teenagers’ education. Academics and independent schools heads said tests - sat during the first year of A-levels - were getting in the way of teaching. Many schools are forced to abandon normal lessons for three weeks just a few months after courses start to prepare for exams, it was claimed. The Conservatives admitted they were “sceptical” about AS-levels, raising the possibility that they could be reviewed or even dropped under a Tory government. The comments came as thousands of teenagers in England, Wales and Northern Ireland received the results of new-style AS exams sat in January. In a statement released today, Ofqual, the new exam’s regulator, said it was “satisfied” that standards in the reformed tests had been maintained this year. But critics branded them a “waste of time”. Alan Smithers, professor of education at Buckingham University, said: “We clearly need to reconsider whether AS exams are necessary. They turn those two years into continuous examining and they make it harder to distinguish between people in the way that is fair and accurate to universities.” Under reforms introduced in 2000, traditional two-year A-levels were split in half. Students now sit AS-levels in the first year and A2 exams in the second, with scores being combined to form a final grade. Tags: exam hypnosis , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , sat hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis Posted in Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores | No Comments » How to pass exams using Hypnosis Monday, March 9th, 2009 (more…) Tags: gmat hypnosis , hypnosis for exams , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis Posted in Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores | No Comments » Stop Smoking Online About FreshStart Method Online Hypnosis - Frequently Asked Questions What Our Customers Say Your Guarantee Smoking Facts Login to FreshStart Method I'm ready to stop smoking now Click below for special audio from Matt Godson, Hypnotherapist: Archives December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 July 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2