
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 19:10:44 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ergo Health : Ergonomics Ergo Health Ergonomics Home About Feedback Remedies For Lower Back Pain - 5 Remedies Were Medically Proven As Ineffective Back pain disorder is prevalent. Based on As more employers required the use of back American surveys, it is one of the most common belts from their workers, investigators from the excuses for not reporting for work. Based on the National Institute for Occupational Safety and rate of its prevalence, survey results also showed Health disclosed in their findings that back belts that the American population alone spends as had no conclusive evidence in preventing low back much as $50 billion every year for different pain. remedies for lower back pain. In another study conducted at the Northwestern Medical experts believe that there is not perfect University's Feinberg School of Medicine, their solution in treating lumbar disorders. Experts in the conclusion about back belts as one of the medical community also conduct clinical tests remedies for lower back pain has no direct effect regarding the efficiency and effectiveness of for the treatment of any one cause of lumbar other treatments, and unfortunately several disorder. The belt merely provided comfort as it remedies for lower back pain were found to be braces the lower back area. wanting in conclusive evidence to support claims 4. Magnet Therapies that they are beneficial. Researchers from a group known as Focus in For this purpose, a list of remedies for lower back Alternative and Complementary Therapies pain faulted or negated by medical experts as reviewed results of clinical studies about the having no beneficial results in treating the back effect of magnet therapies. The overall results problems, is provided below: showed that this particular therapy showed no 1. Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation or significant improvement in the conditions of the TENS patients tested, except for some pain relief in A doctor from the University of Washington knee osteoarthritis present in some of the published a report in the New England Journal of patients. Hence, claims that magnet therapies are Medicine that TENS does nothing to really treat effective remedies for lower back pain were lower back pains except provide placebo effect. negated. This was proven among 145 clinically tested 5. Percutaneous Intradiscal Radiofrequency patients who were divided into groups that would Thermocoagulation (PIRFT) use either genuine or fake TENS machine. This technique involved inserting a needle directly Clinical conclusion shows that all 145 patients to the affected disc and will apply radiofrequency claimed to feel better after the treatment and all to produce heat inside the disc. Accordingly, the of them claimed there were improvements. By heat build up inside will stop the disc nerves from the end of the 2nd month, all 145 patients sending out pain messages to the brain. A group reported the recurrence of their back pains. of doctors conducted a new research and clinical 2. Spinal Manipulation Therapy (SMT) study and have published their findings in a book. Similar studies were also made by two universities Remedies for lower back pain abound yet not all in two separate occasions, conducted by two of them are proven effective, based on the different sets of medical experts. They arrived at information gathered above. Thus, it is always the same conclusion that the effects of Spinal best for a patient to conduct his own research or Manipulation Therapy are no better that the relief consult his physician, in order to avoid derived from acetaminophens. unnecessary treatments that have no full medical 3. Back Belts or Lumbar Back Support support. Articles Car Seat Back Support... An Executive Office Chair... How a Back Support Cushion... Choosing Comfortable Office... 11 Ways To Ease The Stress... Good Ergonomics and Office... What Makes A Good Ergonomic... Neck Support Pillow - Why... Stop The Pain Drain - It's... Complete your home theater... Have a Stress Free... Boardroom Chairs - Shedding... Ergonomic Computer... 10 Tips For Pain Free... Yoga at the Office - Leg... Choosing the Right Pillow... Left Handed Keyboard... Time to Shrink That Hiney... A Different Type of Office... Home | | About | Policy | Feedback | Terms of U