
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 20:01:59 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 20:02:00 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close

New treatments for incontinence  | Health | Get Healthy | Best Health Ad Tag leaderboard Advertisement Login Join the Best Health Community utility-menu Subscribe Give a Gift Newsletters Top Header Image Ad Search this site: Home Feedback home Look Great Beauty Hair Makeup Skin Get Healthy A-Z Index Best Health Challenge Blood Pressure Cold and Flu Heart Health Diabetes Fitness Health Home Remedies Best Health for Men Oral Health Prevention Weight Loss Eat Well Cooking Diet Healthy Eating Nutrition Recipes Embrace Life Home and Family Life and Work Mental Health Pet Health Relationships Sleep Wellness Swap and Drop Special Features BH Challenge Blog Awards Store Magazine Browse current issue Subscribe Give a Gift Product Testers Subscribe Text Subscribe to Best Health Magazine today and save over 35% off the cover price! Home > Get Healthy > Health > New treatments for incontinence New treatments for incontinence Urinary incontinence is a source of embarrassment for many Canadians—but it's much more common than you might think. Read on to find out why it happens and what new treatments can do for you By Lisa Bendall As many as one in three women between age 41 and 64, and one in six under age 40, are dealing with a degree of urinary incontinence —whether it’s a dribble when they cough or laugh, or a total loss of bladder control. Yet three quarters of these women don’t talk to their doctors about treatments—which has a real impact on their lives. "Because they’re often too embarrassed to get help, many with incontinence stay home to avoid social events," says Linda Irving, nurse continence advisor at the Women’s Bladder Health Clinic . (The clinic, operated by the IWK Health Centre in Halifax, is a first for women in the Atlantic region. There are also clinics in Vancouver, Edmonton, Ottawa and other cities in Ontario, and Montreal.) Women with incontinence are at greater risk of major depression because of the condition’s impact on their quality of life, say  University of Toronto researchers. The financial cost of incontinence is also high. The Canadian Continence Foundation , which supports education and research, estimates that women spend over a billion dollars on products like absorbent pads, often because they don’t believe medical intervention will help. But there’s no reason to suffer in silence, says the foundation’s executive director, Jacqueline Cahill. ìIncontinence is definitely manageable, and very often curable. People have to start talking about it.î Why it happens Incontinence in women generally falls into one of three categories: • Overactive bladder syndrome (also called urge incontinence), which occurs when your bladder muscles contract to create an urgent feeling even if your bladder isn’t full; • Stress incontinence , which is when anything that puts pressure on the bladder, such as coughing or exercise, causes a leak due to weak pelvic and sphincter muscles; and • Mixed incontinence —a bit of both. Many women unwittingly expose themselves to irritants that can make overactive bladder syndrome worse: caffeine, alcohol, spicy food, citrus juices, artificial sweeteners, cigarette tar and even chocolate. "Irritation of the bladder lining can set up an urgency feeling," says Jackie Wells, a pelvic dysfunction physiotherapist in Richmond, B.C. Being aware of triggers can help you control urgency. Childbirth is a major cause of stress  incontinence among women in their 30s  and 40s. Pregnancy and childbirth can lead to gradual weakness of the pelvic floor, the muscles that support the bladder. Other causes of stress incontinence can include a chronic cough from asthma or smoking, or lifting and straining, including straining on the toilet. "Constipation is huge in this age range, and it influences incontinence significantly," Irving adds. Bladder infections do, too. Other factors include genetics, excess weight (which puts pressure on the bladder) and medications such as sedatives and drugs to control blood pressure (which can have side effects like relaxing the muscles that hold urine or causing increased urine production). Treatment options For total loss of control, or heavy wetting, there may never be a complete cure; the best choice may be disposable briefs (adult diapers). But for mild to moderate incontinence, which is far more common, there are options. Trying to cope without medical advice could make things worse. "Many women cut back on fluids," says Wells. But concentrated urine can lead to an overactive bladder, whereas drinking plenty of water, which is good for you in many ways, can also help prevent bladder infections. Other women may try to prevent accidents by going to the bathroom at every opportunity. "But they’re training the bladder to send the signal they need to pee even when it only has two or three ounces in it," says Wells. (A normal bladder holds 12 to  16 ounces, or two cups). Physiotherapists who specialize in urinary incontinence and doctors (gynecologists, urologists and some family doctors) can help. While not all treatment options are covered by provincial or private health insurance, it can be worth paying for help given the savings on incontinence products alone. "My patients say reduced anxiety over having an accident is priceless," notes Wells. Physiotherapists, she says, may charge $65 to $120 per visit. Here are some treatment solutions your healthcare provider might suggest: Related Features Urinary Tract Infection Embarrassing health questions, answered Runner's diarrhea: Why it happens and how to prevent it • Pelvic floor or Kegel exercises These can improve stress incontinence. Often recommended after women give birth, they involve strengthening the muscles supporting the bladder by systematically contracting and relaxing them. "When the exercises are done diligently, they can be successful up to 70 percent of the time," Irving says. But many women don’t use the right technique, or give up too soon (it can take three months to notice a difference). Your health professional can help you do Kegels properly. In fact, Australian research showed that pelvic floor exercise training with a continence physiotherapist can improve stress incontinence in about 80 percent of women , without drugs or surgery. Also helpful are biofeedback machines that get signals from sensors inside or outside your vagina, telling you how well you’re doing Kegels and identifying muscle spasms; ask your doctor. • Devices Your healthcare provider may recommend a pessary, which is a removable rubber or silicone insert that is placed inside the vagina to support the bladder. Check with your drugstore to see if it stocks them. • Prescription medications Drugs such as Enablex and Ditropan can sometimes help relax an overactive bladder by blocking the nerves that control muscle contractions. But results vary, and many women stop the drugs because of side effects such as dry mouth and constipation. • Diet and lifestyle changes These can make a big difference. Your specialist may recommend you cut back on bladder irritants such as caffeine and cigarettes, and learn how to prevent constipation (e.g., by eating more fibre) and bladder infections (e.g., by wiping from the front toward the back after going to the toilet). • Bladder training Try putting off a bathroom trip by just a few minutes when you feel like you have to go, and then extend that interval by five minutes every few days. While you wait it out, you can try rapid  pelvic contractions or relaxation breaths  to calm the urge to urinate. Surgical solutions If other treatments fail, your specialist may recommend surgery. Most procedures treat stress incontinence. A tape procedure, for instance, involves supporting the urethra (the tube through which urine leaves the bladder) with a strip of synthetic material to help it stay closed when you’re not exerting pressure on the pelvic floor region. This surgery can be done on an outpatient basis. It works in 85 percent of women, but over time it will be less effective, and repeated surgeries have decreased success. Plus, there are risks with any surgery. Collagen injected on the outside of the urethra may help by bulking up the tissue around it and keeping it closed. It’s successful in up  to 70 percent of women with stress incontinence. The collagen will be absorbed by the body after a year or two, says Irving, "but if it works and starts to fail, it can be repeated." And new treatments are in development. Cahill encourages women to talk more openly about incontinence and seek help. That may also make you feel less alone. "There are a lot of people out there with the same problem," she says. This article was originally titled "Under Pressure?" in the November/December 2010 issue of Best Health. Subscribe today to get the full Best Health experience –and never miss an issue!–and make sure to check out what's new in the latest issue of Best Health Best Health Magazine, November/December 2010 Select rating Give it 1/5 Give it 2/5 Give it 3/5 Give it 4/5 Give it 5/5 Average: 4.4 ( 7 votes) [View] Print Send to a friend Bookmark Del.icio.us Digg Facebook 2 Comments Post a comment Have your say Your Email address is required for authentication purposes only. Comments are moderated for spam; so your comment may not appear immediately. Your name: * Your Email (will not display): * Comments ( 3000 characters max ): * Great article; touches base with a common (and annoying) problem for too many of us. Focuses too much on the female sex though, which is a shame. As a male, this is something I've struggled with (urge incontinence) since my adolescence. I've taken drugs (Detrol LA) to help control the urges but all that did was create more pressure (resistance) when I went to the washroom to fulfill the urge to urinate. After trying another drug (which name I can't remember right now) I finally gave up and decided that since I was only experiencing urge incontinence and had not had any actual accidents (yet) I decided to take another approach ; undergarment protection (aka adult diapers). It's a rather touchy subject for me, but after some research I was able to settle on a brand/fit that is, in my opinion, good for my needs and discreet. And the best part is....no more drugs. Submitted by Yousaf M. Shaikh on Fri, 2011-02-04 2:21pm. for my incontinence, I had treatments from an osteopath...these treatments were a year apart and my bladder is 98% better!!! I am totally pleased with this non-invasive treatment Submitted by Angela Outhouse on Wed, 2011-02-02 8:53am. Send this page Your name: * Your email: * Your friend's name: * Email: * Message: * Enter the security code: * 5 + 3 = Letters are not case sensitive. Click on the image to reload the security code. Lifestyle & Magzine New in Lifestyle New in Lifestyle These foods are dangerous for you Must-have winter products for your pets Websites that'll help you save big on travel How is he saving the environment? Recent Feature Block Recent Feature The newest ingredients in natural health products Health Canada has approved new ingredients for natural health products.... » How to cope when you have vaginitis Are you suffering from this very common female condition? Here's help » How to get rid of warts Here are the treatment options for getting rid of these unsightly skin... » Nanotechnology: A new treatment for breast cancer Nanotechnology — the use of extremely small particles (far smaller than... » Do you have a hidden thyroid problem? Could you be suffering from hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism? Here are... » How to do a healthy detox If you’re thinking of doing a detox diet, read on for tips on cleansing... » A surprising reason why you should track your periods Tracking your periods is important for monitoring your health. You'll know... » Why Kegels are good for both men and women Kegels aren't just for women. These pelvic-floor exercises have health... » The truth about vitamin C While science has debunked the myth that it cures the common cold, this... » 7 healthy habits to keep you young Age really is just a number. Here's how simple lifestyle habits can help... » The biggest health news of 2011 We dug through this year's blog posts and news releases to put together... » The most unusual surgery trends of 2011 Cosmetic procedures such as at-home buttocks enhancements and lunchtime... » 5 health risks of shift work Sleep problems aren't the only health concerns associated with working... » 7 holiday health hazards (and how to avoid them!) The holidays should be a time of merriment, not worry. Ensure peace of... » How to stay hydrated while you exercise Hydration is key when you're exercising. Here's what to drink before,... » 3 ways to soothe eczema While there's no cure for eczema, you can soothe the symptoms. Here's how » Your guide to Crohn's and Colitis Crohn's and Colitis both fall under the umbrella of inflammatory bowel... » The difference between IBD and IBS Curious about the difference between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and... » 3 remedies for acute sinusitis Got nasal congestion that just won't go away? It could be sinusitis » 3 new innovations in contact lenses Here are three new ways researchers are making contact lenses more... » Hot From The Blog Debate: Should yoga be a competitive Olympic sport? Meatless Monday: Mushroom Pappardelle Nutrition: An orange a day may keep a stroke away Editprs Pick Why you should eat more seaweed 9 routines to make you healthier The secret to a successful marriage 4 tips for a sexy and toned butt What to do about rosacea Must reads Are your favourite drinks making you fat? 10 ways to cook zucchini Could a sleep lab benefit you? 15 tips to help lower your blood pressure 5 healthy plants to add to your diet Slideshow Blog 5 health benefits of grains 5 tips for staying healthy while travelling 6 fun and healthy cocktails for your Oscar party Ad Tag bigbox Advertisement Facebook Twitter RSS Contests Contests View all » Trip to Stratford Contest Trip to Rome Contest Best Health Swap & Drop contest The Best Health ATM Share your Tips and you could WIN! Sign-up and you could WIN! WIN THE BEST! Top Emailed The newest ingredients in natural health  » The foods to eat for a healthy gut » Acid Reflux (Gastroesophageal Reflux  » 10 weird fruits and vegetables from  » 6 essential Pilates exercises » Shop Best Health Community Debate: Should yoga be a competitive Olympic sport? Feb 29, 2012 The future of nutrition in fast food restaurants Feb 29, 2012 Do you need a BB cream? Feb 28, 2012 DIY jewellery organizer Feb 28, 2012 8 healthy ways to eat grains Feb 28, 2012 Recipe Search 2 Healthy recipe search [Configure] Select by type 20-Minute Main Dishes Beans/Rice/Grains Bread & Muffins Desserts & Drinks Eggs & Cheese Fish & Seafood Meats Pasta Poultry Sandwiches Snacks and Appetizers Soups & Salads Vegetables Vegetarian Salutation Select... Miss Mr. Mrs. Dr. First name Last name Address Address line 2) City Province Select... Alberta British Columbia Manitoba New Brunswick Newfoundland and Labrador Nova Scotia Northwest Territories Nunavut Ontario Prince Edward Island Quebec Saskatchewan Yukon Territory Postal Code E-mail nbsp; home Look Great Beauty Hair Makeup Skin Get Healthy A-Z Index Best Health Challenge Blood Pressure Cold and Flu Heart Health Diabetes Fitness Health Home Remedies Best Health for Men Oral Health Prevention Weight Loss Eat Well Cooking Diet Healthy Eating Nutrition Recipes Embrace Life Home and Family Life and Work Mental Health Pet Health Relationships Sleep Wellness Swap and Drop Special Features BH Challenge Blog Awards Store Magazine Browse current issue Subscribe Give a Gift Product Testers Advertise Best Health Magazine © 2012 Reader's Digest Magazines (Canada) Ltd. footermenu About Us Customer Care Privacy Subscribe Français Reader's Digest Canada Recipes RSS Séction - Read