
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-ServedBy: web122
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 22:04:54 GMT
Connection: close
Server: SSWS
Vary: Accept-Encoding

Ginkgo Biloba for Tinnitus - Does It Work? - LisaBarger.com Search Welcome to LisaBarger.com This Week In Alternative Medicine Today In Alternative Medicine No paid reviews; no sponsored tweets.  Ever. Search Welcome to LisaBarger.com This Week In Alternative Medicine Top Search Welcome to LisaBarger.com This Week In Alternative Medicine Outright Lies In "Natural" Medicine John Wayne's "Impacted" Colon The Truth About "Dirty" Pork Coffee & Tea Are NOT Dehydrating Are Our Soils Really Mineral Depleted?  No. Retired Features: Is It A Scam? Alt Med News From 2011 & Earlier Does It Work? What Is It? Is It True? Policies & Stuff Policies Retired Articles Dandelion in Alternative Medicine What Is Auricular Medicine? Reiki Bach Remedies Debunking Oil Pulling Vemma (Again) Oil Swishing Explained Colon Cleansing Scams Is Colonics Safe? WD-40 for Arthritis? Apple Patch Diet Dr. Frank's Evercleanse Ear Candles Fruta Vida Vemma MonaVie Noni Juice MonaVie 2 Xango Zeolite Zicam ACV Plastic Water Bottles & Cancer Finding Good Health Info Online Handwashing Soapmaking 101 Today In Alt Med: Today In Food Safety: Today In Child Safety: Today In Homeopathy: Wednesday Nov 19 2008 Wed, November 19, 2008 | Lisa Barger Ginkgo Biloba for Tinnitus “A friend of mine takes gingko biloba for tinnitus.  Does gingko really work for that?” Ginkgo biloba is one of the most popular herbal supplements in the world.  Not only is it popular, it’s currently the best-selling herb or herbal supplement in the U.S. It’s used to improve memory, prevent Alzheimer’s, reduce vertigo and relieve motion sickness.  And, as your friend knows, it’s also widely used for ringing in the ears, or tinnitus. Unfortunately, scientific evidence for ginkgo is generally poor.  While a few studies have found that ginkgo might have some potential, most studies have failed to show any real benefit to tinnitus sufferers.  A 2008 Czech study published in The International Tinnitus Journal followed 150 tinnitus patients over 5 years and failed to find ginkgo helpful, even when combined with other “remedies”. Unfortunately, this study just seems to be the latest in a long line of failed studies.  Even the 2004 study that found ginkgo helpful for a number of other medical problems found it ineffective for tinnitus. Of course, the only person really qualified to give you medical advice is your own doctor.  But this is definitely something to think about if you’re considering using Ginkgo biloba for ringing in the ears. References: ConsumerLab.com.  (2008).  Supplements for Memory & Cognition Enhancement (Ginkgo, Huperzine-A, and Acetyl-L-Carnitine).  Retrieved from consumerlab.com/reviews/Memory_Supplements_Ginkgo_Huperzine_Acetyl-L-Carnitine/GinkgoBiloba/ on November 18, 2008. Hahn, A., et al.  (2008).  Mutimodal Therapy for Chronic Tinnitus. International Journal of Tinnitus . Dubey, A., et al.  (2004).  Ginkgo Biloba—An Appraisal. Kanthmandu University Medical Journal . This is a "retired" article left in place for archival purposes.  It may not reflect current information.  No new comments will be added. Copyright © 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, Lisa Barger.  All rights reserved.  This site contains information that is intended to help you open a dialogue with a healthcare profes