Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cancer prevention & cancer reversal God  our Guide Number-1 
	in prevention & treatment of autoimmune disorders cidp USA Foundation cidpusa.org heart disease & stroke Memory clinic Depression & anxiety Addiction  & Drug 
		Rehab Parkinson Clinic Epilepsy Clinic Pain Clinic Joint disorder clinic Skin repair clinic Neurology Clinic Healing IVIg, Home Hypothyroid Deodorants cause cancer women getting strokes Learning disability Learn  about Brain Cure all disease Cure for MS Marfan Home Diagnosis Treatment Pathology Variants CIDP info Fibromyalgia IVIG Diet anti-inflammatory Burning Feet Home Services Page Chronic Fatigue Autoimmune diseases Prognosis Bible healing Celiac disease Cancer therapy Cancer cure Vitamins and cancer Cancer Prevention Broccoli CANCER B-17 cancer Cancer and Bacteria Cancer Clinic Cancer & Flaxseed oil Cancer therapy Cancer Mycoplasma Cancer Regan Cancer & Lipstick Cancer Help Cancer killer cells Natural 
											Makeup Neck Pain Ocular 
											Female diseases Chronic fatigue syndrome Osteoporosis Women Heart 
											Attacks Breast 
											Size & Disease Female 
											Sex Disease PARKINSON Memory 
											problems Breast 
											Lymph Drainage Kidney 
											stone Buster Bras 
											cause breast cancer Skin 
											repair Clinic Pandas Hepatitis Global Help 
			Welcome to cidpusa.org Guide to natural 
			treatment of all diseases Flame within E -book. Cancer prevention guide 
														& complete treatment 
														guide for $9.99 by Cidp-USA 
														foundation Extracted 
														from 7 books and 
														hundreds of research 
														articles. For the 
														$1.99 discounted 
														book please order from 
														the services page link Simple 
														easy to follow complete 
														cancer treatment and 
														prevention guide by 
														lifestyle change and by diet 
														to avoid cancer.  
														With references Treatment 
														of cancer by a better 
														diet, simple. President 
														Regan did not get his 
														cancer treated in USA. 
														He went for alternative 
														treatment. Learn what 
														Regan knew. Full 
														protocol, prevention of 
														breast cancer, easy to 
														follow. Learn how 
														medical clinics and 
														hospitals are 
														unknowingly spreading 
														cancer. The 
														Laetrile Saga, Part I: 
														Cancer Treatment and 
														Prevention Loading Search our site in above box: NaturalNews) Laetrile, also known as 
								amygdaline or vitamin B17, is found in the food 
								supply and occurs naturally in at least 1200 
								different plants, including apricots, peaches, 
								apple seeds, lentils, cashews, brown rice, 
								millet, and alfalfa. Commercial preparations of 
								laetrile are obtained from the kernels of 
								apricots, peaches and bitter almonds. In fact, 
								its active ingredient –- amygdaline –- comes 
								from the Greek word for almond: amygdale. For many centuries laetrile has been used to 
								treat cancer and other diseases. In his book, The Cancer Industry , Ralph Moss, PhD cites 
								its medicinal use throughout history: "Laetrile's use in medicine dates from the time 
								of the great herbal of China, credited to the 
								legendary culture hero Emperor Shen Nung 
								(1st-2nd century A.D.), which is said to list 
								kernel preparations useful against tumors. 
								Ancient Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Arabic 
								physicians were all familiar with the biologic 
								properties of bitter almond water... Pliny the 
								Elder, Marcellus Empiricus, and Avicenna all 
								used preparations containing laetrile to treat 
								tumors. The same is true of the medieval 
								pharmacopoeia" (1). Laetrile's endurance to this day as a cancer 
								therapy and preventative is notable, especially 
								considering the cancer industry's great effort 
								to discredit its value. The controversy will be 
								covered in part two of this report. Laetrile, when spelled with a capital "L", 
								refers to a concentrated extract of amygdaline 
								derived specifically from apricot pits, as 
								developed by Dr. Ernst Krebs Jr., who pioneered 
								its modern use in cancer therapy in the late 
								1940s and coined its name. Since that time other 
								commercial forms of amygdaline have been 
								developed –- collectively known as laetrile, 
								with a small "l". The various forms of 
								amygdaline are all derived from plant sources 
								containing natural substances that release 
								hydrogen cyanide when certain bodily conditions 
								are met. The body requires an enzyme called beta-glucosidase in order to process laetrile and release the 
								cyanide. Studies have shown that cancer cells 
								contain more of this enzyme than normal cells, 
								which allows for a higher release of cyanide at 
								tumor sites. Please continue 
		