
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 12:12:13 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 12:12:13 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Urinary Incontenance/Pelvic Pain | www.cvmc.org Skip to Main Content Skip to Section Submenu Central Vermont Medical Center Hospital Cancer Care at CVMC Medical Group Practices Woodridge Rehabilitation and Nursing 802-371-4100 (MAIN NUMBER) Search: Volunteer Donate Jobs Find a Provider Contact Us About Us Departments & Services Areas of Care Clinical Departments Ambulatory Care Anesthesiology Birthing Center Cardiac Rehab Cardiology Diagnostic Imaging Emergency Department Hospitalist Program Inpatient Psychiatry Laboratory Occupational Medicine Rehab Services Physical Therapy Amputee/Prothestic Training Arthritis Rehabilitation Employment Screenings Fall Prevention Clinic Fire Fighter Fit Test Functional Capacity Evaluation Geriatric Rehabilitation Hand Therapy Lymphedema Treatment Manual Therapy Neurological Disorders Orthotics Fabrication Pediatric Rehabilitation Running/Gait Analysis Spinal Rehabilitation Sports Therapy Temporomandibular Joint Disorder Urinary Incontenance/Pelvic Pain Vestibular Rehabilitation (Vertigo) Work Hardening Wound Care Aquatic Therapy Occupational Therapy Speech Language Pathology Referrals & Evaluations Our Locations Testimonials Renal Dialysis Respiratory Therapy Sleep Disorder Center Surgical Services Women and Children's Patient Support Services For Our Patients Quality and Safety Community Resources Visiting CVMC Quick Links Pay Your Bill Online Online Patient Registration Send a Well Wish Maps and Directions News and Events Text Size: A A A Printer-friendly version Send to friend Home > Central Vermont Medical Center Hospital > Departments & Services > Clinical Departments > Rehab Services > Physical Therapy >  Urinary Incontenance/Pelvic Pain Physical Therapy Occupational Therapy Speech Language Pathology Referrals & Evaluations Our Locations Testimonials Urinary Incontenance/Pelvic Pain 10 million Americans are affected by incontinence—the inability to hold urine or feces due to loss of pelvic muscle control, loss of pelvic sphincter control or due to a spinal lesion. Individuals living with bowel and bladder disorders are often embarrassed and will limit their recreational activities, social interactions, intimate relationships, and more. At CVMC’s Rehabilitation Services, we have three certified therapists to meet the needs of this community. These therapists were all trained by Janet Hulme, P.T., who is nationally known for her work in bowel and bladder health and pelvic pain. Beyond Kegels provides patients with an option that has demonstrated long-term results and an educational component that will empower individuals to self-manage symptoms. Who Has Pelvic Floor Weakness? The pelvic muscles can become weak with aging, during pregnancy, after delivering a child vaginally, after an injury, after a surgery, with chronic coughing, or from a lack of exercise. In addition, the Beyond Kegels program can be helpful to: children experiencing bed-wetting women during menopausal years men after radical prostatectomy surgery men with benign prostate hyperplasia individuals experiencing pelvic pain Types of Incontinence The two most common types of urinary incontinence are stress incontinence and urge incontinence.  With stress incontinence you may leak urine when you cough, laugh, walk, go up stairs, sneeze or get up from a chair.  With urge incontinence you may leak large amounts with a sudden uncontrollable need to toilet. Kegel exercises have been taught for years to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles to help regain control of urine flow.  A new program has been developed that’s proven to be more effective called “Beyond Kegels.” Beyond Kegels The Beyond Kegels program is a non-surgical treatment for treating bowel and bladder health issues. The basis of Beyond Kegels is that the muscles in the pelvic region need to be balanced, just as they would in any other region of your body.  If there is an imbalance in the pelvic muscles, then there may be difficulty in controlling bowel and bladder functions. The treatment includes exercises that are specific to the pelvic muscles to decrease leaking, the use of biofeedback (a system that detects muscle activity through a sensor that is inserted vaginally or anally), keeping a bladder or bowel diary, and, occasionally lifestyle changes (such as decreasing caffeine intake). How Do I Get Treatment? To schedule an initial evaluation, a referral is needed from a primary care physician.  If appropriate, testing may need to be done by a urologist before physical therapy intervention can begin. After evaluation, treatment is typically scheduled 1-2 x a week for approximately 4 weeks.  Treatments are carried out in a private room in a one-on-one setting. OUR INCONTINENCE SPECIALISTS Michelle Alberghini, PT Tricia Dwyer, PT Susan Stephen, PT Contact Us To schedule an appointment: 802-371-4242 OUR LOCATIONS Main Office 1311 Barre Montpelier Road Berlin, Vermont Aquatic Wellness Center 244 Granger Road Berlin, Vermont Additional locations in Barre, Montpelier and Waterbury. For complete contact information, directions and hours for all of our locations, click here . CVMC Documents A Hidden Problem Shared by Many Central Vermont Medical Center 130 Fisher Road, Berlin, Vermont 05602 Telephone: (802) 371-4100 Hospital Report Card Bill of Rights Privacy Notice Mission & Vision Visiting CVMC Employment Co