<http://singban.com/quitsmoking/?p=512>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Great News For Smokers – Quitting Smoking Cigarettes Just Got a Whole Lot Easier | Quit Smoking Quit Smoking How To Help Someone Quit Smoking « Quit Smoking Products That Work Quit Smoking – Women Who Want to Stop Smoking » Great News For Smokers – Quitting Smoking Cigarettes Just Got a Whole Lot Easier March 14th, 2012 . Posted in Quit Smoking No Comments » Tags: Cigarettes , Easier , Great , Quitting , Smokers , Smoking , Whole There is great news for people who are thinking about quitting smoking cigarettes. New research has been conducted that has revealed much more effective ways to quit smoking. These new techniques are starting to become available to the public and helping smokers to put an end to their habit much more easily. Up to this point smoking cessation techniques have focused on the physical addiction to nicotine. Most options available to smokers try to help them relieve the physical addiction to smoking. Smoking cessation aids include Nicotine Replacement Therapies (like the patch) and medications that try to help relieve the symptoms of withdrawal from nicotine. But smoking is actually a dual addiction. Not only is the smoker physically addicted to nicotine, there is also a psychological component to the addiction. What is starting to come to light is that the psychological addiction to smoking is much more powerful than the physical addiction. In light of this methods for quitting smoking cigarettes are becoming available that focus more on the mental addiction to smoking than the physical addiction. These techniques are proving to be much more successful at helping smokers to quit smoking. Smoking cessation experts are recognizing this and coming up with more specialized techniques to target the mental addiction to smoking. In some cases they are taking existing methods to quit smoking and making them more powerful. The best example of this is hypnotherapy. It has been around for awhile as a smoking cessation option. It is one of the only quitting smoking options that has historically focused on the mental addiction to smoking. Forward thinking smoking cessation experts have realized this and have worked to make hypnotherapy even more effective and convenient. An example of a new form of hypnotherapy that has been recently developed is NLP based hypnotherapy. NLP stands for Neuro Linguistic Programming and it is a therapy technique that has been in existence for a long time used to help people break undesired habits. It has now been combined with traditional hypnotherapy to make a stop smoking aid that is extremely successful. It is as convenient as it is powerful. One of the biggest complaints about traditional hypnotherapy was the inconvenience of finding a credible hypnotherapist and trusting them enough to allow them to put you in a trance. NLP based hypnotherapy addresses this by allowing the smoker to listen to an audio recording in their own home instead of having to visit a therapist. For people who are thinking about quitting smoking cigarettes NLP based hypnotherapy is a great option. It is powerful, convenient, and makes quitting smoking much easier than using products that focus on the physical addiction to nicotine. It is the most exciting new smoking cessation technique. Take advantage of new research and use the most powerful new technique for quitting smoking cigarettes . NLP based hypnotherapy is the best option for smokers to easily and effectively give up smoking cigarettes. All you have to do is listen to a specially formatted audio recording to have your cravings to smoke melt away. Learn more about NLP and how to get your own copy of this powerful recording at http://www.stop-smoking-method.info Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Recent Posts Quit Smoking – You Can Do It! Quit Smoking – Women Who Want to Stop Smoking Great News For Smokers – Quitting Smoking Cigarettes Just Got a Whole Lot Easier Quit Smoking Products That Work What Happens To Your Body When You Quit Smoking? Quit Smoking Tips – Breaking the Habit Benefits of the Quit Smoking Patches Categories Quit Smoking Tags About After Before Benefits Cigarettes Discover Easily Effective Effects Expect Forever Guide Habit Health Hypnosis Hypnotherapy Learn Method Methods Naturally Nicotine Patches Possible Products Quitting Really Reasons Right Should Simple Smoke Smokers Smoking Steps Support Symptoms There These Through Today Turkey Using Weight Withdrawal Without Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 Entries (RSS) a