Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Fewer Migraines With Feverfew Fewer Migraines With Feverfew Fewer Migraines with Feverfew Migraineurs (people who suffer from chronic or episodic migraine headaches) are looking for headache relief that doesn't come from a drug lab.  All too often pharmaceutical migraine solutions have unpleasant side effects, including, ironically enough, headache. Some migraine sufferers have found help from feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium), a common flower that grows all over Europe and North America.  Feverfew plants resemble daisies.  They have flat yellow centers with slender white petals on lightly furred stems and small yellow-green leaves.  Medical texts going as far back as Ancient Rome list dried and crushed feverfew leaves as a palliative for headaches. Feverfew is best used in a preventive program.  Several clinical trials, all in the past decade, have shown that feverfew, taken two to three times a day, can reduce the frequency of migraine episodes by up to 50% for some people.  Several study participants who experienced chronic daily headaches (CDH) plus migraine episodes reported that their daily headaches stopped completely after four weeks of feverfew treatment. Feverfew, while helpful to some, has a significant amount of potential side effects.  Few people experience them, but they can be serious.  Any patient wanting to add feverfew to their migraine prevention regimen should consult with their doctor and a licensed herbalist. Feverfew is available in many forms.  It can be homegrown and the migraineur can chew two to three leaves from the plant each day.  It is also available in tea, tablet, capsule, and tincture forms.  Feverfew in any form can cause mouth ulcers, but they are most common among those that chew the leaves or drink the tea.  If mouth sores develop, discontinue use immediately. Pregnant or nursing women should take feverfew.  Do not give feverfew to pediatric migraineurs without consulting a doctor.  Feverfew can trigger an allergic reaction in patients with common pollen allergies and should be used with caution. Search This Site Migraine Help Site Map Riboflavin For Migraines Migraine Stages Running Into Migraines Migraine And The Arts Migraine Auras Migraine Criteria Smoking And Migraines Caffeine Withdrawal And Migraines Migraine Myths And Reality Migraine Help Migraines With Coexisting Medical Conditions ... conditions. The presence of coexisting conditions must be screened because some migraine medications may not be appropriate for use in the presence of certain coexisting conditions. Here are a few steps to begin: when launching a program: Step 1: Learn about each condition.The doctor and other health ... Read Full Article Employee Rights For Migraine Sufferers ... possess a lower than normal threshold for light-induced pain. Sunlight, television, and flashing lights all have been reported to precipitate migraine headaches. Using partitions to block distractions. Move employee's work area to a more quiet area. Use environmental sound machines (white noise machines) ... Read Full Article Feverfew And Migraines ... remedy: Feverfew. Feverfew is the common name for Tanacetum parthenium, an herb related to the chrysanthemum. It is also known as Bachelor s Button. As a medicine, it s use can be traced at least as far back as the Dark Ages, and we re not just talking about the time before little pills in hard to open ... Read Full Article Are You In Or Out ... Deciding if you are able to go out when you have a migraine is a tough decision. You are in pain, you do not feel well, and more likely than not you are not thinking clearly. The ability to determine when you are okay to leave home when you have a migraine is a big part of learning to manage your condition. ... Read Full Article Abdominal Migraines ... the other typical migraine symptoms. When they do, a patient is said to be experiencing an abdominal migraine. An abdominal migraine is pain, usually varying from mild to medium, in the abdomen. The pain is either along the midline or unspecified and is frequently accompanied by abdominal tenderness, ... Read Full Article © 2000 Find Any Info Privacy Statement Contact Us MigraineHeadachePrevention.com is 