
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 19:34:16 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Articles Unlimited - Recognizing And Dealing With Urinary Tract Infection Recognizing And Dealing With Urinary Tract Infection By Dean Caporella | On August 15, 2006 | In Disease & Illness | Rated There are four different categories of a UTI. These are known as Lower UTI, bladder infection, Upper UTI and kidney infection. The exact symptoms a person can experience will depend upon age and what type of infection is involved. Urinary Tract Infection occurs in the urinary tract. It is a very common infection and is the second highest contracted by the body. A UTI occurs when bacteria are able to invade and multiply inside the urinary tract. These organisms are so small and minute that they cannot be seen with the human eye. Through various studies, it has been concluded that infections occur when there is one specific bacteria present. Typically, this bacterium is a strain of Escherichia Coli E., better known as E.Coli. This bacterium is found naturally in the digestive tract, specifically, the colon. What are the symptoms? There are four different categories of a UTI. These are known as Lower UTI, bladder infection, Upper UTI and kidney infection. The lower infection is usually the first sign and occurs in the urethra and moves to the bladder. An upper infection takes place if a lower UTI is left untreated and affects the ureters and kidneys. If these two are left untreated, a kidney infection can occur. The exact symptoms a person can experience will depend upon age and what type of infection is involved. For a small child symptoms could include diarrhea, reduced appetite, fever, vomiting or nausea. For an older child, they could experience lower back pain (which could indicate an infection of the kidneys), frequent urination, incontinence, pain in the stomach or pelvic region or painful urination. For an adult, the symptoms of a lower UTI could include back pain, blood in the urine, cloudy urine, frequent urination, frequent urge to urinate, discomfort or painful urination. If experiencing any of the following it could mean an upper UTI; chills, high fever, pain in the ribs, vomiting or nausea. How to treat or avoid a urinary tract infection? Women suffer from UTIs more commonly than men do. There are a few things you can do to prevent the occurrence. Drinking plenty of water daily, not resisting the urge to urinate and when you visit the restroom, wipe from front to back. Never wipe from back to front as this could enable the bacteria from the anus to enter the urethra. Take showers and refrain from taking long baths. Make sure genital areas are thoroughly cleaned before and after any type of sexual activity. Cranberry juice has also been recommended by doctors to help prevent occurrences of a Urinary Tract Infection. It is important that you visit your physician if you notice any symptoms of a UTI. It needs to be treated quickly to avoid more serious problems. Your physician will conduct a lab test that consists of a urinalysis. After diagnoses, he or she will prescribe you an antibiotic to fight the infection. Dean Caporella is a professional broadcaster with an interest in a wide range of topics. Read reviews on infection types and 