<7.0%* Blood pressure: <130/80 mm Hg Lipids Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol: <100 mg/dL (<2.6 mmol/L)** *Referenced to a nondiabetic range of 4.0% to 6.0% using a Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT)-based assay. **In individuals with overt cardiovascular disease (CVD), a lower LDL cholesterol goal of <70 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L), using a high dose of a statin, is an option. Urgent and Emergency Issues Train correctional staff in the recognition, treatment, and appropriate referral for hypo- and hyperglycemia. (E) Train appropriate staff to administer glucagon. (E) Train staff to recognize symptoms and signs of serious metabolic decompensation, and immediately refer the patient for appropriate medical care. (E) Institutions should implement a policy requiring staff to notify a physician of all CBG results outside of a specified range, as determined by the treating physician (e.g., <50 or >350 mg/dL). (E) Identify patients with type 1 diabetes who are at high risk for diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). (E) Medication Formularies should provide access to usual and customary oral medications and insulins to treat diabetes and related conditions. (E) Patients should have access to medication at dosing frequencies that are consistent with their treatment plan and medical direction. (E) Correctional institutions and police lock-ups should implement policies and procedures to diminish the risk of hypo- and hyperglycemia during off-site travel (e.g., court appearances). (E) Routine Screening for and Management of Diabetes Complications All patients with a diagnosis of diabetes should receive routine screening for diabetes-related complications, as detailed in the ADA's Standards of Care (see the National Guideline Clearinghouse [NGC] summary of the ADA guideline, Standards of medical care in diabetes. VI. Prevention and management of diabetes complications ). Interval chronic disease clinics for persons with diabetes provide an efficient mechanism to monitor patients for complications of diabetes. In this way, appropriate referrals to consultant specialists, such as optometrists/ophthalmologists, nephrologists, and cardiologists, can be made on an as needed basis and interval laboratory testing can be done. The following complications should be considered. Foot care : Recommendations for foot care for patients with diabetes and no history of an open foot lesion are described in the ADA Standards of Care. A comprehensive foot examination is recommended annually for all patients with diabetes to identify risk factors predictive of ulcers and amputations. Persons with an insensate foot, an open foot lesion, or a history of such a lesion should be referred for evaluation by an appropriate licensed health professional (e.g., podiatrist or vascular surgeon). Special shoes should be provided as recommended by licensed health professionals to aid healing of foot lesions and to prevent development of new lesions. Retinopathy : Annual retinal examinations by a licensed eye care professional should be performed for all patients with diabetes, as recommended in the ADA Standards of Care. Visual changes that cannot be accounted for by acute changes in glycemic control require prompt evaluation by an eye care professional. Nephropathy : An annual spot urine test for determination of microalbumin-to-creatinine ratio should be performed. The use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers is recommended for all patients with albuminuria. Blood pressure should be controlled to <130/80 mm Hg. Cardiac : People with type 2 diabetes are at a particularly high risk of coronary artery disease. Cardiovascular disease risk factor management is of demonstrated benefit in reducing this complication in patients with diabetes. Blood pressure should be measured at every routine diabetes visit. In adult patients, test for lipid disorders at least annually and as needed to achieve goals with treatment. Use aspirin therapy (75 to 162 mg/day) in all adult patients with diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors or known macrovascular disease. Current national standards for adults with diabetes call for treatment of lipids to goals of LDL ≤100, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) >40, triglycerides <150 mg/dL, and blood pressure to a level of <130/80 mm Hg. Monitoring/Tests of Glycemia In the correctional setting, policies and procedures need to be developed and implemented to enable CBG monitoring to occur at the frequency necessitated by the individual patient's glycemic control and diabetes regimen. (E) A1C should be checked every 3 to 6 months. (E) Self-Management Education Major Components of Diabetes Self-Management Education Survival Skills Hypo-/hyperglycemia Sick day management Medication Monitoring Foot care Daily Management Issues Disease process Nutritional management Physical activity Medications Monitoring Acute complications Risk reduction Goal setting/problem solving Psychosocial adjustment Preconception care/pregnancy/gestational diabetes management Staff Education Include diabetes in correctional staff education programs. (E) Alcohol and Drugs Patients with diabetes who are withdrawing from drugs and alcohol need special consideration. This issue particularly affects initial police custody and jails. At an intake facility, proper initial identification and assessment of these patients are critical. The presence of diabetes may complicate detoxification. Patients in need of complicated detoxifications should be referred to a facility equipped to deal with high-risk detoxification. Patients with diabetes should be educated in the risks involved with smoking. All inmates should be advised not to smoke. Assistance in smoking cessation should be provided as practical. Transfer and Discharge For all interinstitutional transfers, complete a medical transfer summary to be transferred with the patient. (E) Diabetes supplies and medication should accompany the patient during transfer. (E) Begin discharge planning with adequate lead time to ensure continuity of care and facilitate entry into community diabetes care. (E) Sharing of Medical Information and Records Practical considerations may prohibit obtaining medical records from providers who treated the patient before arrest. Intake facilities should implement policies that 1) define the circumstances under which prior medical records are obtained (e.g., for patients who have an extensive history of treatment for complications); 2) identify person(s) responsible for contacting the prior provider; and 3) establish procedures for tracking requests. Facilities that use outside medical providers should implement policies and procedures for ensuring that key information (e.g., test results, diagnoses, physicians' orders, appointment dates) is received from the provider and incorporated into the patient's medical chart after each outside appointment. The procedure should include, at a minimum, a means to highlight when key information has not been received and designation of a person responsible for contacting the outside provider for this information. All medical charts should contain CBG test results in a specified, readily accessible section and should be reviewed on a regular basis. Children and Adolescents with Diabetes Nutrition and Activity Growing children and adolescents have greater caloric/nutritional needs than adults. The provision of an adequate amount of calories and nutrients for adolescents is critical to maintaining good nutritional status. Physical activity should be provided at the same time each day. If increased physical activity occurs, additional CBG monitoring is necessary and additional carbohydrate snacks may be required. Medical Management and Follow-up Children and adolescents who are incarcerated for extended periods should have follow-up visits at least every 3 months with individuals who are experienced in the care of children and adolescents with diabetes. Thyroid function tests and fasting lipid and microalbumin measurements should be performed according to recognized standards for children and adolescents in order to monitor for autoimmune thyroid disease and complications and comorbidities of diabetes. Children and adolescents with diabetes exhibiting unusual behavior should have their CBG checked at that time. Because children and adolescents are reported to have higher rates of nocturnal hypoglycemia, consideration should be given regarding the use of episodic overnight blood glucose monitoring in these patients. In particular, this should be considered in children and adolescents who have recently had their overnight insulin dose changed. Pregnancy Pregnancy in a woman with diabetes is by definition a high-risk pregnancy. Every effort should be made to ensure that treatment of the pregnant woman with diabetes meets accepted standards. It should be noted that glycemic standards are more stringent, the details of dietary management are more complex and exacting, insulin is the only antidiabetic agent approved for use in pregnancy, and a number of medications used in the management of diabetic comorbidities are known to be teratogenic and must be discontinued in the setting of pregnancy. Summary and Key Points People with diabetes should receive care that meets national standards. Being incarcerated does not change these standards. Patients must have access to medication and nutrition needed to manage their disease. In patients who do not meet treatment targets, medical and behavioral plans should be adjusted by health care professionals in collaboration with the prison staff. It is critical for correctional institutions to identify particularly high-risk patients in need of more intensive evaluation and therapy, including pregnant women, patients with advanced complications, a history of repeated severe hypoglycemia, or recurrent DKA. A comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to the care of people with diabetes can be an effective mechanism to improve overall health and delay or prevent the acute and chronic complications of this disease. Definitions : American Diabetes Association's Evidence Grading System for Clinical Practice Recommendations A Clear evidence from well-conducted, generalizable, randomized controlled trials that are adequately powered, including: Evidence from a well-conducted multicenter trial Evidence from a meta-analysis that incorporated quality ratings in the analysis Compelling nonexperimental evidence (i.e., "all or none" rule developed by the Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine at Oxford) Supportive evidence from well-conducted randomized controlled trials that are adequately powered, including: Evidence from a well-conducted trial at one or more institutions Evidence from a meta-analysis that incorporated quality ratings in the analysis B Supportive evidence from well-conducted cohort studies, including: Evidence from a well-conducted prospective cohort study or registry Evidence from a well-conducted meta-analysis of cohort studies Supportive evidence from a well-conducted case-control study C Supportive evidence from poorly controlled or uncontrolled studies, including: Evidence from randomized clinical trials with one or more major or three or more minor methodological flaws that could invalidate the results Evidence from observational studies with high potential for bias (such as case series with comparison to historical controls) Evidence from case series or case reports Conflicting evidence with the weight of evidence supporting the recommendation E Expert consensus or clinical experience Clinical Algorithm(s) None provided Back to top Evidence Supporting the Recommendations Type of Evidence Supporting the Recommendations The type of supporting evidence is identified and graded for selected recommendations (see the "Major Recommendations" field). Back to top Benefits/Harms of Implementing the Guideline Recommendations Potential Benefits Ongoing diabetes therapy is important in order to reduce the risk of later complications, including cardiovascular events, visual loss, renal failure, and amputation. Early identification and intervention for people with diabetes is also likely to reduce short-term risks for acute complications requiring transfer out of the facility, thus improving security. Potential Harms Hypoglycemia Hyperglycemia Back to top Qualifying Statements Qualifying Statements Evidence is only one component of clinical decision-making. Clinicians care for patients, not populations; guidelines must always be interpreted with the needs of the individual patient in mind. Individual circumstances, such as comorbid and coexisting diseases, age, education, disability, and, above all, patients' values and preferences, must also be considered and may lead to different treatment targets and strategies. Also, conventional evidence hierarchies, such as the one adapted by the American Diabetes Association (ADA), may miss some nuances that are important in diabetes care. For example, while there is excellent evidence from clinical trials supporting the importance of achieving glycemic control, the optimal way to achieve this result is less clear. It is difficult to assess each component of such a complex intervention. This document provides a general set of guidelines for diabetes care in correctional institutions. It is not designed to be a diabetes management manual. Back to top Implementation of the Guideline Description of Implementation Strategy An implementation strategy was not provided. Implementation Tools Patient Resources Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) Downloads Quick Reference Guides/Physician Guides Slide Presentation For information about availability, see the Availability of Companion Documents and Patient Resources fields below. Back to top Institute of Medicine (IOM) National Healthcare Quality Report Categories IOM Care Need Living with Illness Staying Healthy IOM Domain Effectiveness Patient-centeredness Safety Timeliness Back to top Identifying Information and Availability Bibliographic Source(s) American Diabetes Association. Diabetes management in correctional institutions. Diabetes Care 2011 Jan;34(Suppl 1):S75-81. [15 references] PubMed Adaptation Not applicable: The guideline was not adapted from another source. Date Released 1998 (revised 2011 Jan) Guideline Developer(s) American Diabetes Association - Professional Association Source(s) of Funding American Diabetes Association (ADA) Guideline Committee American Diabetes Association/National Commission on Correctional Health Care Joint Working Group on Diabetes Guidelines for Correctional Institutions Composition of Group That Authored the Guideline Working Group Members : Daniel L. Lorber, MD, FACP, CDE ( Chair ); R. Scott Chavez, MPA, PA-C; Joanne Dorman, RN, CDE, CCHP-A; Lynda K. Fisher, MD; Stephanie Guerken, RD, CDE; Linda B. Haas, CDE, RN; Joan V. Hill, CDE, RD; David Kendall, MD; Michael Puisis, DO; Kathy Salomone, CDE, MSW, APRN; Ronald M. Shansky, MD, MPH; Barbara Wakeen, RD, LD Financial Disclosures/Conflicts of Interest All members of the Professional Practice Committee are required to disclose potential conflicts of interest. Conflict of interest disclosures for the 2010 Professional Practice Committee Members are available from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) Web site (see "Availability of Companion Documents" field). Guideline Status Note : This guideline has been updated. The National Guideline Clearinghouse (NGC) is working to update this summary. Guideline Availability Electronic copies of the updated guideline: Available from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) Web site . Print copies: Available from the American Diabetes Association, 1701 North Beauregard Street, Alexandria, VA 22311. Availability of Companion Documents The following are available: Introduction. Diabetes Care 34:S1-S2, 2011. Summary of revisions for the 2011 clinical practice recommendations. Diabetes Care 34:S3, 2011. Executive summary: standards of medical care in diabetes. Diabetes Care 34:S4-S10, 2011. Professional Practice Committee Members (includes conflict of interest disclosure). Diabetes Care 34:S97-S98, 2011. Electronic copies: Available from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) Web site . Print copies: Available from the American Diabetes Association, 1701 North Beauregard Street, Alexandria, VA 22311. The following are also available: Diagnosis and classification of diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care 2011 Jan; 34(Suppl 1):S62-S69, 2011. Electronic copies: Available from the ADA Web site . 2011 Standards of medical care in diabetes. Clinical practice recommendations. Slide set. American Diabetes Association; 2011 Jan. 130 p. Electronic copies: Available from the ADA Web site . 2011 Standards of medical care in diabetes. Clinical practice recommendations. Personal Digital Assistant (PDA). American Diabetes Association; 2011 Jan. Electronic copies: Available for download from the ADA Web site . Patient Resources The following are available: Treating diabetes emergencies: what police officers need to know. Video/DVD. American Diabetes Association (ADA). Available for download from the ADA Web site . Treating diabetes emergencies: what police officers need to know. Poster. American Diabetes Association (ADA). 1 p. Available in Portable Document Format (PDF) from the ADA Web site . Please note: This patient information is intended to provide health professionals with information to share with their patients to help them better understand their health and their diagnosed disorders. By providing access to this patient information, it is not the intention of NGC to provide specific medical advice for particular patients. Rather we urge patients and their representatives to review this material and then to consult with a licensed health professional for evaluation of treatment options suitable for them as well as for diagnosis and answers to their personal medical questions. This patient information has been derived and prepared from a guideline for health care professionals included on NGC by the authors or publishers of that original guideline. The patient information is not reviewed by NGC to establish whether or not it accurately reflects the original guideline's content. NGC Status This summary was completed by ECRI on April 2, 2001. The information was verified by the guideline developer on August 24, 2001. This summary was updated by ECRI on January 29, 2002, July 29, 2003, May 26, 2004, March 18, 2005, March 17, 2006 and April 30, 2007. This summary was updated by ECRI Institute on April 1, 2008. The updated information was verified by the guideline developer on May 15, 2008. This summary was updated by ECRI Institute on May 17, 2010. The information was verified by the guideline developer on May 25, 2010. This summary was updated by ECRI Institute on February 24, 2011. This summary was updated by ECRI Institute on June 27, 2011 following the U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory on Zocor (simvastatin). Copyright Statement This NGC summary is based on the original guideline, which is copyrighted by the American Diabetes Association (ADA). For information on guideline reproduction, please contact Alison Favors, Manager, Rights and Permissions by e-mail at permissions@diabetes.org . For information about the use of the guidelines, please contact the Clinical Affairs Department at (703) 549-1500 ext. 1692. Back to top Disclaimer NGC Disclaimer The National Guideline Clearinghouse™ (NGC) does not develop, produce, approve, or endorse the guidelines represented on this site. Read full disclaimer... The National Guideline Clearinghouse™ (NGC) does not develop, produce, approve, or endorse the guidelines represented on this site. All guidelines summarized by NGC and hosted on our site are produced under the auspices of medical specialty societies, relevant professional associations, public or private organizations, other government agencies, health care organizations or plans, and similar entities. Guidelines represented on the NGC Web site are submitted by guideline developers, and are screened solely to determine that they meet the NGC Inclusion Criteria which may be found at http://www.guideline.gov/about/inclusion-criteria.aspx . NGC, AHRQ, and its contractor ECRI Institute make no warranties concerning the content or clinical efficacy or effectiveness of the clinical practice guidelines and related materials represented on this site. Moreover, the views and opinions of developers or authors of guidelines represented on this site do not necessarily state or reflect those of NGC, AHRQ, or its contractor ECRI Institute, and inclusion or hosting of guidelines in NGC may not be used for advertising or commercial endorsement purposes. Readers with questions regarding guideline content are directed to contact the guideline developer. Hide... {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## AHRQ  Home | Questions? | Contact AHRQ | Site Map | Accessibility | Privacy
 Policy | Freedom of Information Act | Disclaimers U.S. Department of Health & Human Services | The White House | USA.gov: The U.S. Government's Official Web Portal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 54