Content-Type: text/html; Charset=iso-8859-1
Set-Cookie: thiscat=97; path=/
Set-Cookie: lastprod=779; path=/
Cache-control: private

Superfeet Green Trim-to Fit (1400) | Best Insoles Items in Cart: 0 Sub Total: $0.00 All Insoles Arch Supports Arthritis Insoles Cushioned Insoles Diabetic Insoles Foot Health Foot Pain / Blister Care Gel Insoles Industrial Insoles Just for Women Kids Insoles Office/Dress Insoles Performance Socks Sandals Shoes Running / Walking Hiking Biking Skiing / Snowboarding Golf Baseball Hockey Football Soccer View All Spenco Medical Othaheel SuperFeet Lynco New Balance Insoles Sole Sof Sole PowerStep Aetrex Shoes Shock Doctor Insoles Teva Sandals Feetures Socks HTP Heel Seats Sorbothane MEDI-DYNE WigWam ArchCrafters Scott Hawaii Cobian eSoles FootPetals Shoe Goo Spira Red Rock Products More >> Layman's Guide to Insoles Do I Need Arch Supports? Pain Identifier Plantar Fasciitis Blog Glossary of Terms Links - Foot Health Site Map Interactive Pain Identifier helps find the right products for you foot pain. ARCH SUPPORTS Insoles Orthotic (rigid) Full Length 3/4 Length Cushion Childrens WIDE - New!!! Orthotic Sandals CUSHIONED Insoles Shop by BRAND PAIN RELIEF for Feet Diabetic / Arthiritis SPORT - Insoles Foot Health INDUSTRIAL - Insoles OFFICE / DRESS Comfort Shoes & Sandals Orthopedic SHOES Socks Gift Guide Winter Footwear Plantar Fasciitis Subscribe to our mailing list for coupons and more... Home > ARCH SUPPORTS Insoles > Superfeet Green Insoles Superfeet Green Insoles Retail Price: $50.00 Your Price: $39.99 $35.95 Your Savings: $14.05 Product Code: 1400 see reviews Choose Sizes & Quantity Below: Shoe Sizes Shoe Sizes Men's 5 1/2  - 7 (C) Men's 7 1/2 - 9 (D) Men's 9 1/2 - 11 (E) Men's 11 1/2 - 13 (F) Men's 13 1/2 - 15 (G) Men's 15 1/2 - 17 (H) Women's 4 1/2 - 6 (B) Women's 6 1/2 - 8 (C) Womens' 8 1/2 - 10 (D) Women's 10 1/2 - 12 (E) Junior's 13 1/2 - 2 (A) Junior's 2 1/2 - 4 (B) Quantity We Accept: Credit Card | Pay Pal | Google Checkout Description Share | Superfeet Green Insoles Designed primarily for footwear with a removable insole, Superfeet Trim-to Fit GREEN provides maximum support and shock absorption. Features Agion® antimicrobial top cover treatment to reduce bacteria and help prevent foot odor. Ideal for feet with medium to high arches. Recommended footwear: Running, walking, hiking, alpine and industrial footwear. Superfeet Patented Features: Heel cup encapsulates fat pad for natural shock absorption, initiating proper bone alignment from first impact. Contour shape developed from biomechanical principles of podiatric medicine properly adapts footwear to your foot Stablizer
cap (the firm foundation under the foam) provides firm support for
maximum stability and ideal alignment to reduce over-pronation. Superfeet Green Video Reviews: Superfeet Green Video Review Average Rating Customer Reviews Have Used for 10+ years! 4/10/2012 Reviewed by: Erin Higdon from Tennessee. I love the green insoles. I was a ballerina, so I had high arches in my feet. My physical therapist recommended these insoles, and I have been using them for 10+ years. Thank you! Super Feet 4/10/2012 Reviewed by: Alice Jaworski from Minnesota. I do high impact exercise five days a week and these insoles are a necessity.  I was excited to find them on this website at a cheaper price.  Ordering was fast and easy.  I will continue to order them from bestinsoles. Love the Green 12/30/2011 Reviewed by: Will Froelich from Pennsylvania. I was very skeptical when my sister sent these to me in the mail. Well I have been wearing them for 5 years in my dress shoes. I don't like to wear any dress shoe's without these and I tried them all. It's about time I buy another pair. Postal Worker  ( MailProcessor ) 12/10/2011 Reviewed by: Brenda O. Chapman from Kansas City,  Kansas. These are the BEST  Insoles that I have ever used. The minuet that I placed them in my shoes and walked around the house for a few minuets, my legs, arches and feets felt so good.  I stand on my job from 8 to 12 hours a night. The  Superfeet Green insoles are a Life saver on my feet and they make me walk better when my knees were hurting and my legs were tired. I had to order some more for my other shoes.  I would recommend them. I would love to give them a  10 star  Rating. Audio Engineer 11/2/2011 Reviewed by: JM from New York, NY. I think I've finally found them! I have flat feet with a slight arch and wear custom insoles daily. I also wear the Lynco L400 in my other shoes and slippers and like them a lot. Out of curiosity, I tried the Green. Well, the Green is now my favorite insole. Yes, they are a bit stiff but they give you great arch support and prevent pronation leading to knee pain much like my custom insoles. Note: I compared the Aetrex Custom and Spenco along with the Green and L400.  The Green won hands down. Best insoles EVER!!! 10/5/2011 Reviewed by: Jeff Neumann from Houston,TX. A friend of mine recommend superfeet to me back in 2006. Hands down these are the best insoles EVER!!! 
It took a couple of days for my feet to get use to wearing superfeet. My plantar faciitis hasn't been an issue for 5 years now. 


LOVE MY SUPERFEET!!!!! Inserts 6/15/2011 Reviewed by: Theresa Bartholomew from Los Banos. Has really helped my husbands feet. No pain anymore when he is walking. I would recommend these inserts to everyone.Will be buying more. Plantar fasciitis relief 6/8/2011 Reviewed by: Byron Furseth from Chicago Illinois. Placed these in my walking shoes and pain from plantar fasciitis was greatly reduced. Great product, great price, free shipping. Can't lose. IrmaLucy 6/8/2011 Reviewed by: irmalucy from California. I love my superfeet.  I use them with my tennis shoes which I wear all the time with my superfeet.  It really helped heal my heel spur, don't want to get it again so the superfeet will help. 70 year old flat feet 6/7/2011 Reviewed by: Lou from Wayne, PA. My podiatrist recommended these for impingement pain which made walking very painful.  These were to be tried before paying $300 for orthotics.  Just saved about $270 because I now walk pain-free with these inserts. Semi-retired; walk 3-4x per week 5/31/2011 Reviewed by: Lalerokh from Minnesota. My doctor suggested these for Plantar Fascitis on one foot and ankle surgery (twice) on the other. I ordered them from you and in a couple of days they were at my house. When I first used them I thought that the Doc was nuts. These thing made my foot hurt worse. But after a day or two I realized they were working. So good in fact I ordered two more for my other shoes. Now if I wear shoes without them, I have a hard time walking. You have the best price and great service. 1 5/31/2011 Reviewed by: Oneblindbat from oneblindbat@yahoo.com. My podiatrist recommended the Superfeet Green Insoles for fasciitis.  Now I can walk more easily.  Could you ask for more? My Orthopedic Doctor advised me 5/27/2011 Reviewed by: Maureen Frame from Cleveland Georgia. My Orthopedic Doctor advised me to get the green insoles after I complained of ankle, hip and back pain after ankle surgery.  I am amazed and so thankful. I have only had one bad day since I put these in my (new) sneakers. I will be purchasing more in the near future for my other shoes! The best way of curing Plantar fasciitis 5/17/2011 Reviewed by: brian from Texas. The best way of curing Plantar fasciitis is to do stretches. Insoles may help, but for quickest relief, keep one foot back, your leg straight, and lean against a wall. Repeat with the other leg. It's best to stretch more than one time per day. This was advice from my doctor and it worked, though it took several days to cure it. Correctional Officer 5/11/2011 Reviewed by: REHass from South Georgia. I walk on concrete all day and my heels would hurt so bad I couldn't hardly walk the next day. I had a coworker tell me about Superfeet. I bought 2 green pairs and love them. To some of the negative reviews. Your feet didn't get in their condition overnight so don't expect Superfeet to fix your feet over night. Give Superfeet time to adjust like the directions read. good and bad. 4/20/2011 Reviewed by: patrick from NH . I recently had some sort of stress fracture on the top of my right foot. It was due to the inner side of my foot collapsing down because of my high arches.These inserts REALLY made a positive difference in the support and eliminated the problem. Although my left foot which has considerably more strength support wise is taking a beating from the arch support. They are uncomfortable on my good foot and give me major blister. Hopefully I will acclimate to them. No good for long distance running 4/7/2011 Reviewed by: Veronica Acosta from Manassas, VA. I have high arches and a history of plantar faciitis so I was really excited to get these insoles. I ran a 10 miler with them on and to my dissapointment the really hurt my feel after mile 5 and my knee started hurting so bad I couldn't run anymore so I had to speed walk the rest of the race. It seems like they maybe gave too much stability for such a long run. They are great for walking or short runs but I would not reccomend for long runs. semi-retired 2/8/2011 Reviewed by: Susan from St. Louis, MO. I have been wearing Super Feet for 2+ years for plantar fasciitis and flat feet.  I wear the Green for every day wear and yellow in my bike shoes.  They work better than the custom fit $325 insoles my podiatrist ordered.  I would highly recommend them. My doctor suggested these for Plantar Fascitis 12/21/2010 Reviewed by: Roger from Lebanon Oregon. My doctor suggested these for Plantar Fascitis. I ordered them from you and in a couple of days they were at my house. When I first used them I thought that the Doc was nuts. These thing made my foot hurt worse. But after a day or two I realized they were working. So good in fact I ordered two more for my other shoes. You have the best price and great service and a real live person to talk to if you have a problem with an order, which I did and she fixed. Seasonal Park Ranger 12/20/2010 Reviewed by: Mary Sullivan from Arizona. Superfeet work great for me.  My doctor ordered them years ago for plantar faciitis, and I haven't had a flare-up since. Best-in-sole gave me a good price and good service. ikedixon 12/19/2010 Reviewed by: TLasz from New York. excellent product - really helped with my achilles tendonitus.  Highly recommend this product for someone on their feet a lot! Architect 12/13/2010 Reviewed by: John from Knoxville. I have used these before, and they are perfect for me.  I have high arches, and am bothered by occasional heel tendonitis.  These are perfect!  I do hike and fly fish a lot, so these go in all of my hiking and wading shoes. Great Everyday Insoles 12/9/2010 Reviewed by: Kevin from MN. Great quality and support. The arches aren't as I high as I remember (I have very high arches)but other than that these are the some very good insoles for everyday shoes. was not impressed 12/6/2010 Reviewed by: Cynthia from Ohio. I bought these for my husband. He tried them one day and quit using them because he said they made his knees hurt. Architect 12/6/2010 Reviewed by: Stewart from Minneapolis. Love Em, Love Em, Love Em !!!! Another 5 star review 11/28/2010 Reviewed by: Don Sappington from Portland, Maine. Won't leave home without them.  Have 7 pair now. These are great! 11/27/2010 Reviewed by: Debbie Mahan from Randolph, VT. These are great! I have flat feet  and have been wearing them for years, every day, all day. I'm an avid hiker and walker--my feet definitely know when they're not in my shoes. great solution for running 11/27/2010 Reviewed by: ed from Los Angeles, CA. I was having a lot of pain in my knees after running and the insoles really cut down on the pain. Great help! game warden 11/24/2010 Reviewed by: mark from spokane. Just ordered my second pair. Wear everyday in work boots. Great product and shipped within week. My feet were in pain 11/22/2010 Reviewed by: Jordan Grace from Oregon. I am on my feet all day long on a concrete floor and wanted something that would give me good support as I have a high arch. I was only able to wear these insoles twice for a half a day because my feet were so sore and cramping. Runner 11/15/2010 Reviewed by: Anil from Madison, MS. I have been using these inserts for the past few years.  I replace only when my knees are achey.  Just ran the Marine Corp Marathon in DC... couldn't have done it without my Green Superfeet Inserts. Electrical Engineer 11/13/2010 Reviewed by: William from Harvard, IL. The green superfeet are helping with my severe plantar fasciitis. I would not be able to walk at all without them. It is hard to find some insoles that actually help with this condition but the superfeet insoles are doing the job. 2nd time around and still great!! 11/12/2010 Reviewed by: Melissa from St. Louis. I bought my first pair in 2008 for my running shoes.... Couldnt believe what a difference they made for me. My arch is somewhat high and I had never been comfortable running.  Now I am on my 2nd pair...and they are still great!  Even more important now as I have RA and support for my joints is critical. Whether I'm doing strength training or running...great product!!   I'll keep buying as long as they are making them. Hard not soft 11/8/2010 Reviewed by: Susie from Olympia, WA. I was suprised to find these insoles are so hard when you stand on them.  With my plantar fasciitis, they are better than not having them.  They work really well in my every-day casual shoes--my feet do well with them for that.  They don't work for standing on concrete, which I have to do when I work.  And they don't work well for long walks.  But I will keep them in my every-day shoes, where they have been helpful. Chiropractic Tech 11/3/2010 Reviewed by: Donna from Roanoke, VA. I began wearing the Superfeet inserts approximately 4 years ago after suffering with Plantar Fascitis.  I had gotten Cortisone shots in both feet and the pain returned.  A shoe specialty store told me about superfeet and a couple of weeks after I began wearing them the Plantar Fascitis was gone.  I recommend these to anyone with foot problems, they are wonderful. Love them 10/29/2010 Reviewed by: Teresa from San Antonio, tx. I've been using these for about 12 years now, and they have helped with knee and hip pain related to the all-too-common IT band issues afflicting runners. The trim-to fit also helps me adjust to my different size feet (one 61/2, one 71/2) so each can have proper arch support Comfy 10/28/2010 Reviewed by: Scott from Alexandria, VA. Very comfortable, provides great support, and most importantly, I can run again without pain! plantar facitis 10/27/2010 Reviewed by: c smith from maynard. OMG, my facitis between these green insoles and wii fit core balance exercises....and i was a new person!!!  after a yr of pain!!! superfeet green insoles 10/24/2010 Reviewed by: charles smith from georgia. my son told us about these insoles. my wife ,son and i use them and will buy them again. these are the best insoles we have tried. Like my Superfeet 10/20/2010 Reviewed by: Don from Vancouver, WA. This is the second pair I've owned. The first one lasted forever...I still use them. They support my feet very well and allow me to stay on my feet much longer than I could without them. I highly recommend them. Fabulous 10/19/2010 Reviewed by: Carol Friday from Superfeet. Great product and price.  I already had Superfeet and got 2 new pairs so I could put in my shoes I use regularly so I don't have to switch out all the time. What title??? 10/18/2010 Reviewed by: Nancy from Hershey,PA. I have been using super green feet for years. Wouldn't use any other type of insole and I've been running for 33 years! Superfeet Green are the best! 10/17/2010 Reviewed by: Catherine from Los Angeles. This is my 19 year old daughter's 4th pair of Superfeet Green insoles. She loves the arch support. She won't wear anything else. Every pair of shoes she buys, she looks for a removable insole so she can switch to Superfeet. You have a customer for life! Superfeet- Green 10/15/2010 Reviewed by: KF from TX. Ever since thise insoles were recommended by a Podiatrist I have less feet pain.  I can walk and run with more comfort than before.  I will, definately continue to use them. Wow! 10/14/2010 Reviewed by: Larry from Southern California. Good stuff!

I use these in my everyday walking shoes. What a difference they have made! LOVE THEM ! 10/14/2010 Reviewed by: rich drozdowski from lorain ohio. IVE BEEN USING SUPERFEET INSERTS FOR ABOUT 5 YEARS, AND THERE THE SAME PAIR! 
I JUST ORDERED MY SECOND PAIR FOR ANOTHER SET OF BOOTS.
THESE ARE BY FAR THE LONGEST LASTING, AND MOST COMFORTABLE INSERTS ON THE MARKET. Runner 10/11/2010 Reviewed by: John from New York. Great insoles. Superfeet 10/6/2010 Reviewed by: Jessica Lawrence from Chehalis, WA. My orthopedist recommended these as I was experiencing hip and knee pain related to collapsing arches.  After only a couple days, hip pain was gone; knee pain left soon after.  These aren't squishy, cushy insoles -- they're designed to provide significant support to your arches.  Highly recommend! Great product 10/2/2010 Reviewed by: Randy from Edmonds, wa. Got a second pair so I would not have to move them from shoe to shoe.  Love them and have recommended them to my friends. Not good for running.. 10/1/2010 Reviewed by: Kathleen from South Jersey. Training for marathon, was getting knee pain.  Friend suggested these.  Felt like I was walking on a ball.  Arches hurt really bad.  Had to go back to original insoles.  $30 mistake. Good fit 9/23/2010 Reviewed by: Jack Reid from Virginia. Good fit, good price, quick delivery! My chiropractor told me to buy these 9/18/2010 Reviewed by: Lloyd from NY. My chiropractor told me to buy these, they are the best thing I every did for my feet. Give them a try 9/16/2010 Reviewed by: Charlie from Illinois. I had plantar fasciitis for years.  I've tried different insoles that never worked well.  I found the Superfeet Green insoles at a running store.  
  They worked great.  Usually after a long run, my feet would be extremely painful.  However, after using the insoles, my heels were significantly better than using any other insoles. 
  I proceeded to buy another pair of Superfeet Green and the 3/4 Easy fit for me. Helped my sore feet 9/14/2010 Reviewed by: Mary Pat from Southeast Wisconsin. I have Plantar Fascitis,mine is in the soft tissue of my arch.The pain I was experiencing was a "10".My job requires me to be on my feet all day on concrete floors.I bought these with the guidance of my foot Doctor and LOVE THEM. The price compared to $300.00 for custom,well,you do the math. I showed them to my PT,he is impressed and has been passing on the information to his patients.They helped me Thanks Superfeet Love them 9/13/2010 Reviewed by: Kristina Day from Boston. I was starting to experience foot pain and was past due for new running shoes and inserts, after reading many reviews, I decided to try the Superfeet, they have made a difference, very comfortable and great arch support. I love these orthotics! 9/5/2010 Reviewed by: Patty from Lockport. My doctor recommended these for foot pain.  I was skeptical and hesitant to pay $30+ dollars for something that seemed so insignificant.  Boy was I wrong.  What a difference these things make in my foot pain.  I highly recommend anyone dealing with falling arches to get these.  You won't be sorry.  Best investment I ever made! Great Product 9/4/2010 Reviewed by: Rebecca from Florida. Previously bought these from a running store.  Purchasing from Best Insoles (Red Rock Products) they shipped fast and arrived very quickly.  I am a runner with feet that pronate alot.  These really help, stopped my knee problems due to the pronation. Little Feet 9/1/2010 Reviewed by: Terisa Clark from Durango, CO. I purchased these for my eight year-old daughter who has a very narrow and completely flat foot.  This makes it hard for her to find shoes that will fit at all or comfortably. I was wary about spending the money for insoles for a child but have always loved my Superfeet.  They have made all the difference for her! found my size !! 8/31/2010 Reviewed by: steve from excelsior springs, mo. WHEN YOU WEAR A 17, YOU GET USED TO THINGS BEING HARD TO FIND. THESE INSOLES GAVE NEW LIFE TO A PAIR OF R-BOKS, THAT WERE A BARGAIN EXCEPT NO INSOLES. THEY FIT LIKE ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT.DID NOT NEED TO TRIM AT ALL. PRICE WAS GREAT ALSO. THANKS! BIG STEVE. 
WOULD BE NICE IF WEBSITE DID A SORT BY SIZE..I HAD TO SCAN ALOT OF LITTLE PEOPLE INSOLES TO FIND THESE WHOPPERS. Hiker 8/30/2010 Reviewed by: Levonn Hubbard from Crossville, TN.. The Superfeet Green Insoles are an awesome replacement insole for my hiking shoes and boots. SuperFeet Yes! 8/30/2010 Reviewed by: Nina Rogers from Los Angeles. These were recommended by a friend when I developed plantar fasciitis.  I stupidly spent $300 on a orthodic from a podiatrist.  Don't make the same mistake - buy these insoles.  They changed my life - I could walk again! N O PAIN ANYMORE 8/7/2010 Reviewed by: Scott L.Huegel from lancaster PA. I love these green superfeet insoles.They really make a difference. very comfortable 8/1/2010 Reviewed by: Wanda from Texas. I was wearing $400 inserts made by my foot surgeon.  They were uncomfortable so I didn't wear them for very long.  Now that I've discovered the SuperFeet I wear them every day as they are very comfortable and have almost eliminated my foot pain. Manufacturing 7/9/2010 Reviewed by: Jack from California. These are the best insoles I've purchased for work.  The environment is largely warehouse (cement floors) and they really beat up your feet.  These insoles have really helped a lot.  I'm on my feet 8-9 hours a day at work and I can really feel the difference. Superfeet are wonderful 7/9/2010 Reviewed by: Carla Reissman from Virginia. Superfeet are wonderful. I've been using them for three years. They helped me recover from plantar fascitis, and I bought them for my teenager when his feet started hurting, and he no longer had any problems. owner 6/28/2010 Reviewed by: Doug from Lakewood, CO. Best inserts I've ever owned.  I have been using Superfeet for 4 years. Best Insoles Ever! 6/27/2010 Reviewed by: Aimee Bateman from Watertown, NY. Definitely worth the price.  I wear them everyday with both my running shoes and combat boots (have one set for each).  The ones in the combat boots have last 3 years now and several 20K and 40K road marches. Ms. 6/27/2010 Reviewed by: Heather from online. I can tell with in three days of wearing a pair of shoes with out the inserts.  My knees start to crack and my hips hurt.  The bottoms of my feet start to burn and I feel like I have less energy.  Working in the medical field for ten years now means having to have shoes that support and comfort.  These insoles can turn any pair of shoes into a comfortable 8 to 12 hours on my feet with minimal pain at the end of the day. Superfeet 6/25/2010 Reviewed by: Bryan from Huntsville, AL. Doctor recommended as the least expensive quality insoles. Have really helped with my feet comfort. Consumer 6/22/2010 Reviewed by: Michael McMillan from Atlanta, Ga. These are some of the best inserts I have bought for my Plantar Fascitis. I had orthodotics made by my doctor but they did not compare to these. And the price is very reasonable. The website was very easy to navigate and the purchase was delivered quickly. Definetly a must have if you need extra foot support or have a medical condition which requires these. Superfeet 6/20/2010 Reviewed by: Alvernaz from San Diego, CA. Great product, fast delivery. Excellent 6/19/2010 Reviewed by: Carm from New York. Totally cured my knee problems when running! Good support 6/18/2010 Reviewed by: Alan from New York, NY. Fit size 8 shoes perfectly. Didn't even have to trim. Pricey though. No more need pain 6/17/2010 Reviewed by: Mike from West Jordan, Utah. These insules enabled me to get rid of my arthritic knee pain and start working out again. In just 3-weeks I can feel the difference. 6/17/2010 Reviewed by: Paul Marquez from Snohomish,WA.. My Orthopedic Doctor asked me to get the Green inserts for my plantar fasciitis..  In just 3-weeks I can feel the difference.  I don't wear the $300 inserts someone else fit me for. These feel better and I definately like the cost. Lucky for me my insurance paid for the $300. inserts that never did make me feel better. working woman 6/16/2010 Reviewed by: Karen J Ramirez from Oakland, Ca.. Superfeet became a part of my everyday life since back surgery 4 years ago. I always used the blue but I feel the green are much better for my work day on a cement floor. I will definitly be purchasing again! These insoles changed my life! 6/16/2010 Reviewed by: delores from California. These insoles changed my life!  I used to have severe heel pain while walking.  Since I'm using these insoles I can walk miles with no discomfort. I highly recommend Superfeet! Superfeet Green are great 6/16/2010 Reviewed by: Barbara Kerr from Ottawa Canada. Superfeet Green were recommended to my by my daughter.  She had really sore feet when playing football and tried these insoles in her cleats.  She raves about them as she no longer has pain.  I do not have any foot problems but I put them in my Tennis shoes and they do give me better support.  I bought my son the black ones as he has fallen arches and he likes them alot. well worth it 6/16/2010 Reviewed by: ken from ca. I'm about 6', 175 lbs and enjoy playing ball.  I have flat feet and while basketball shoes provide some support, I would still feel arch pain.  I have tried spenco, superfeet,and sorbothane.  Superfeet (green) have worked the best for me.  I know some people with flat feet prefer the blue over green, but green worked good for me. Superfeet does a body good 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Michael Chaney from Washington, DC. Love to run but was having issues with shin splints.  Started using these inserts in my footwear and the pain disappeared!  Back to running long distances without fear. Superfeet 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Nate Ross from Orlando, Florida. Recommended by my podiatrist and seem to do OK.  Not spectacular though Great for Running 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Michael Digman from Ithaca NY. I am a marathon runner. Some time ago I heavily damaged my knee from over training. After spending several hundred dollars at a physical therapist the green superfeet insoles were recommended  for daily usage. Great product works fantastically. Superfeet insoles - green 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Ryan from Indy. This insoles are pretty good but not great.  I wish there was more arch and heel support. Active 72 year old 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Gary Buehler from Bozeman MT. I started using Green Superfeet insoles on the advice of a PT several years ago and think they make a huge difference in my posture and ability to walk/hike long distances. Have them in all my shoes and boots, and wouldn't put a pair on without them. My husband was dedicated to Superfeet Blue 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Michele from California. My husband was dedicated to Superfeet Blue until he tried Superfeet Green.  They seem to have better support for his boots and his feet do not hurt at the end of the day! These were recommended to me by my Doctor 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Cheri Alexander from Decatur, Alabama. These were recommended to me by my Doctor for help with my knee problem. They have been a lifesaver!!!  Knee doing so much better. I highly recommend these insoles!!! Superfeet are the best 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Raymond from San Diego. The doctor recomend these and they are great!  Tried others but Superfeet really made a huge improvement in my plantar fasciitis pain. And Best Insoles are great to deal with as well!
Thanks!!! Mother 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Chris from Murrieta, CA. My daughter is a volleyball player and was having alot of problems with her back hurting.  We had to go to the chiropractor at least once a month.  He recommended the green superfeet.  She now only goes to the chiropractor a couple times a year for a good measure.  Her back no longer hurts.  When she started college volleyball she forgot to put them in one of her pairs of shoes and her back started to hurt again.  After putting them in, it stopped hurting. Great Insoles! 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Heather from Denver, CO. I was originally told to try these insoles to correct my plantar fasciitis.  I love them!  Not only did they combat the plantar issues, but they helped me to align my knees more appropriately.  I would recommend the Green insoles for anyone having plantar troubles.  Be advise that these are not soft, cushioned soles.  They are hard plastic with a thin comfort liner so they may feel uncomfortable for a couple days.  Give it a day or two and you'll never go back! Can't Get Better then the GREEN 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Gone Hiking from Ohio. After trial and error of purchasing the inexpensive to the high price insoles, Superfeet Green has proved the best. The Green has maintained its support and comfort for hundreds of trail miles. It helps with the support 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Genan Sorenson from Cordova, AK  99574. It was recommended that my daughter wear superfeet green to help her ankles not to roll.  She loves them.  My husband and son also wear them to play basketball and baseball.  It helps with the support of their ankles. My Doctor recommended the Superfeet Green insoles 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Georgetta Lawrence from Wright City, MO. My Doctor recommended the Superfeet Green insoles.  I had been having trouble with my foot after deciding to lose weight and starting to walk for exercise,I developed plantar fasciatis.  These insoles have helped me to be able to continue to exercise and lose weight without having foot pain. Great improvement 1/22/2009 Reviewed by: tommy from Seattle . these made a huge improvement in my plantar fasciitis pain. 

pleased with the quick shipping too. Email this page to a friend Related Items Superfeet Blue Trim-to Fit 2400 $39.99 $35.95 Superfeet Black Trim-to Fit 3400 $39.99 $35.95 Superfeet Yellow  Fit-To-Trim 44000 $39.95 $35.95 Sandals that are good for your feet. Foot Health Resources Layman's Guide to Insoles Plantar Fasciitis & Heel Pain Blog Arch Supports - Do I need them? Foot Pain Identifier Glossary of Foot Health Terms follow us Best Insoles - Div. of Red Rock Products, Inc. Best Insoles.com Call Us Toll-Free 888-473-3762 Home | Products | Brands | Sports | Foot Care | Contact | Sitemap 1381 N Kraemer Blvd., Anaheim, CA 92806 © Copyright 2012 Red Rock Products, Inc. - All Rights Res