
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 15:34:50 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) - Treatment of RA plus Sjogrens Syndrome Home | Appointments | About The Center Arthritis Info Patient Resources Physician Resources Arthritis News Arthritis Research Ask The Expert Ask The Expert Main &nbsp > Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) Treatment of RA plus Sjogrens Syndrome I have newly diagnosed RA with high RF and Citrulline antibodies. My Sjogrens Disease ( 8 yrs duration- dry eyes, dry sensitive skin and mucous membranes, peripheral neuropathy ) is further complicated by multiple pollen and chemical allergies. Arava 10mg/ da, aggravates my Sjogrens symptoms with urticaria, angioedema, plus skin rashes. I am also taking 3.5 mg Prednisone/ da and would like to stop because of fluid retention. What other DMARDS would be better or combination thereof. Thank you, See our section on RA treatment. Methotrexate remains the first choice of DMARDs, initally as a single agent but also in combination with TNF drugs (Enbrel, Humira, Remicade) in patients who do not respond to methotrexate alone. Triple therapy with methotrexate, Plaquenil and sulfasalazine has also been used. Last update: 06:40 PM Thursday, April 5, 2007 Tell A Friend Tell a Friend Author: Alan Matsumoto, M.D. Views: 25 Reference Links Arthritis Drug Information Methods of Drug Delivery How to Give a Subcutaneous Injection Related Questions: Type 1 Diabetes and Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Methotrexate and Nausea Humira and tinnitus How long for Orencia Allergic reactions and serious infections from DMARDS Efficacy of Plaquenil versus a generic Hydroxychloroquine formulation Is Enbrel made from fetal tissue? Concerned with increasing Methotrexate Efficacy of Sulfasalazine? Combination of Arava and Methotrexate safe? Mixing other medications with Enbrel, such as cough medicine. Can Rheumatoid Arthritis affect the eyes? Outcomes of Arava vs Humira for RA Pregnancy and Methotrexate Slow healing skin issues while taking Enbrel? Humira and Lupron Interactions? Possible resistance to Remicade? Methotrexate and Side Effects Spondyloarthritis treatment Will delaying treatment of RA cause deformity? RA and Methotrexate pamidronate in AS Will Methotrexate and Prednisone cure Rheumatoid Arthritis? Use of ETANERCEPT with AS Stomach problems with Plaquenil Effects and use of methotrexate Psoriatic Arthritis Taking remicade Dealing with the pain of RA /Progression of RA Endometriosis and Enbrel RA and Endometriosis When will I get some relief from my Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin reactions... Remicade use for Adult Onset Still's Disease RA - when/why are x-rays ordered Side effects of Methotrexate Enbrel and uveitis Effect of Humira and Methotrexate on Lungs methotrexate and alcohol Pneumonia shot?? Dermatomyositis Re: enbrel 25 mg Surgery and Enbrel Enbrel in a 78 year old woman/ Is it worth risk? Remicade and surgery Patient with RA on Remicade and in need of a knee transplant Moving from Enbrel to Humira long term prednisone vs methotrexate for pmr Leflunomide methotrexate toxicity Enbrel plus methotrexate - family planning methotrexate during pregnancy Remicade and Toxicity Availability of injectable Methotrexate? Methotrexate for Rheumatoid Arthritis Blood Pheresis as an alternative RA treatmemnt TNF meds causing CNS disorder Methotrexate and future pregnancy Enbrel and seizures Humira/Remicade For Chronic Low Back Pain? Tamoxifen and Methotrexate How long to be on MTX before tapering off? Arava and Methatrexate Storing of Remicade Methotrexate and vertigo Methotrexate and pregnancy Having Hepatitis C and Rheumatoid Arthritis Effects of Methotrexate treatment on Kidney Remicade infusions for severe polymyalgia Side Effects of Planquil Effect of Humira and Methotrexate on Lungs Irregular response to Remicade Neurological Concerns With Humira Arava and bleeding antibotic therpy for RA Whats next, Humira?? Enbrel--long term effects on children Enbrel or Humira without methotrexate Enbrel Vs. Remicade Humira once per week Rheumatoid Arthritis Is Enbrel an OK Treatment for Scleroderma Can Methotreate cause nerve pain/neuropathy? persistant cough Rheumatoid & Methotrexate Methatrexate and Alcohol Psoriatic Arthritis long term prognosis w/o Tx Oral Medications for RA treatment Remicade and wound healing Arava Liver Failure, Update Please Increase methrotexate or add a new drug? Weekly Humira Injections Biologics - Injectables or IV - Patient Consensus? Drugs,Alcohol, and Arthritis Subcutaneous Injection Side effects of the drug, Arava When to start DMARDS? Should I Start Methotrexate? Methotrexate Failure of Anti TNF Drugs for RA RA and Prednisone Moving from Enbrel to Humira Pulmonary Fibrosis and Arava Increasing  Methotrexate Enbrel, Preganacy and Adult Onset Still's Disease is it possible to gain weight on methotrexate?? long term prednisone vs methotrexate for GCA Methorexate and side effects Rheumatoid Arthritis recently dxed with RA Side effects of Methotrexate Remicade Treatment Effectiveness of increased Methotrexate Moving from Enbrel to Humira NSAID and injecting Methotrexateto control flare Can I continue my medication while pregnant? Radiologist & Rheumatologist disagree Cough, a side effect? RA and Drugs Orencia for RA Methotrexate and Heart Disease How Soon Is It Safe To Get Pregnant After Stopping Enbrel? MTX vs Plaquenil Severe itching on Leflunomide TNF Blockers Methotrexate and Memory Loss Methotrexate and effect time Combining biologics to fight flares remicade and rituximab Biologic agent at 77 ? Enbrel and missed period RA and Enbrel use RA Pain Management Humira/Methotrexate combination-alternatives Aviva as rheumatoid arthritis medicine Enbrel & Methotrexate and PPD test Pregnancy & Humira Risks for heart and lung problems on medications RA Medications Possible side effect of Methotrexate Is TACE a good target for RA ?? RA Flares Starting Methotrexate Methotrexate and strange feeling in head Very Active RA Birth Control while on Methotrexate RA in fingers Remicaid therapy Psoriatic arthritis and Remicade Adding Enbrel Plaquenil Side Effects Can cyclophosphamide cause pain in joints? Remicade and Pregnancy...is it safe? Can cyclophosphamide cause pain in joints? Edema of hands, legs, and feet while taking Methotrexate for RA Should I start the Disease Modifying Agents? Methotrexate and Celebrex Humira for Severe RA Leukocytoclastic Vasculitis and Etanercept Taking Methotrexate and Enbrel together Adding Enbrel Rtuxan and Aava Rituxan and Prednisone Enbrel Injections SureClick Enbrel Enbrel and Uveitis Orencia or Rituxan Rheumatoid arthritis and infections Remicade cross placental barrier during pregnancy? Side effects of Methotrexate Enbrel Remicade Enbrel stopped working Enbrel, Metho, Humira Methotrexate and getting pregnant Humira and breast implants Enbrel eye problems How safe is the flu shot while on Remicade? Side Effects of Long Term Methrotrazate Re: Methotrexate Enbrel before colonoscopy Humira and Skin Cancer risk Live vaccinations in RA patients Pregnancy and Enbrel safely transporting biologic drugs Can Methorexate cause gastritis or aggravate it? New medication RA and MS Enbrel and susceptability to flat warts. Any alternatives for Prednisone Rash from Enbrel Pregnant and was on Methotrexate Enbrel and strange pain Exposure to Vaccinations Help for RA patients with no money Use of TNF's with CellCept Can MTX be causing my dry cough? Concerns about Arava Ask The Expert Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) Bursitis and Tendinitis Corticosteroids Diet and Exercise Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs) Enteropathic Arthritis Fibromyalgia General Arthritis Gout, Pseudogout, Other Infectious Arthritis Myositis Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Osteoarthritis Osteonecrosis Osteoporosis Polymyalgia Rheumatica Psoriatic Arthritis Reactive Arthritis Regional Pain: Back and Neck Rheumatoid Arthritis Surgical Therapy Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) Systemic Sclerosis Vasculitis Sitemap | Copyrigh