Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Adrenal Disorders MoonDragon's Health & Wellness ADRENAL DISORDERS BASIC INFORMATION "For Informational Use Only" For more detailed information contact your health care provider about options that may be available for your specific situation. DESCRIPTION OVERVIEW The adrenal glands are a pair of triangular-shaped organs that rest on top of the kidneys. 
Each gland normally weighs about 5 grams (slightly less than 1/5 ounce) and is made up of 
two parts. The cortex, or outer section, which is responsible for the production of cortisone, 
cortisol, aldosterone, androstenedione, and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). The adrenal cortex helps 
to maintain the salt and water balance in the body. It is also involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates 
and the regulation of blood sugar. In addition, the cortex produces a sex hormone similar to that secreted 
by the testes. The medulla, or central section, secretes another hormone, adrenaline (also called epinephrine) and 
norepinephrine, which functions as both a hormone and a neurotransmitter. When the body is 
under stress. This hormone speeds up the rate of metabolism and produces other physiologic 
changes designed to help the body cope with danger ("Fight or Flight Response"). STRESS HORMONES Adrenaline, cortisol, DHEA, and norepinephrine are the body's four major stress hormones. The highest levels of 
these hormones are released in the morning and the lowest at night. Cortisol is also involved in the metabolism 
of carbohydrates and the regulation of blood sugar. Aldosterone helps to maintain electrolyte (salt) and water balance 
in the body. Androstenedione and DHEA and androgens, hormones that are similar to - and that can be converted 
into - testosterone. DHEA has been promoted as a cure-all for aging. However, very little is known about the action 
of DHEA in the body, and while it is available from numerous sources, it is a steroidal hormone and should be 
used with caution, preferably under a health care provider's supervision.  The long-term effect of using DHEA are 
not known. MoonDragon's Health Therapy: DHEA Therapy Adrenaline speeds up the rate of metabolism and produces physiologic changes designed to help the body cope with 
danger. It is produced when the body is under stress. Under circumstances of extreme stress, large amounts of cortisol 
are released, which can lead to a host of health problems. FREQUENT SIGNS & SYMPTOMS REDUCED ADRENAL FUNCTION Disorders that are directly related to the adrenal gland include reduced adrenal function , usually referred 
to as low adrenal reserve . The adrenals still produce enough hormones to maintain a relatively normal state 
of health, but stressful situations increase the need for hormones that the malfunctioning adrenals cannot 
produce, leading to anything from fatigue to total collapse. Symptoms of reduced adrenal function can include: Weakness. Lethargy. Dizziness. Headaches. Memory problems. Food cravings. Allergies. Blood sugar disorders. ADDISON'S DISEASE Addison's Disease is a rare condition that may develop when the adrenal cortex is seriously 
underactive. It is a chronic condition that requires lifelong treatment. Symptoms include: Fatigue. Loss of Appetite. Dizziness or fainting. Nausea. Moodiness. Low blood pressure. Diarrhea. Depression. Craving for salty foods. A decrease in the amount of body hair. An inability to cope with stress. Constant complaints about feeling cold. Discoloration and darkening of the skin. Elbows, knees, scars, skin folds, and creases
in the palms are more noticeable when these body parts are exposed to the sun. The mouth, vagina
and freckles may appear darker. Development of bands of pigment running the length of the nails and by darkening of the hair. The most common type of this disorder is autoimmune Addison's Disease. This comes about when the immune system 
mistakenly attacks the tissue of the adrenal glands, destroying them. It may be associated with other 
autoimmune diseases that affect other endocrine glands. The most common of these is hypothyroidism (an 
underactive thyroid). Addison's disease that coexists with hypothyroidism is known as Schmidt's Syndrome . 
Less commonly, Addison's disease occurs together with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, another autoimmune 
disease, or insufficiencies of the parathyroid glands and/or gonads, or with pernicious anemia. Addison's 
disease is a chronic condition that requires lifelong treatment. Fortunately, people with Addison's disease 
can have a normal life expectancy if they stay on the proper medication as prescribed by an endocrinologist 
(a specialist in hormonal diseases). MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Addison's Disease Facts MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Addison's Disease Information by NIH MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Hypothyroidism MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Diabetes Mellitus MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Autoimmune Disorders ADRENAL STRESS & FATIGUE The function of the adrenals is to aid the "flight or fight" response by bringing 
all your body's resources to "alert" status. When your adrenal glands are healthy 
and functioning properly, they can instantly increase your heart rate and blood pressure, 
sharpen your senses, release necessary energy reserves for immediate use, and slow your 
digestion and other secondary bodily functions. This is considered a healthy response to a 
stressful, possibly life-threatening or survival situation. The adrenal response will 
take priority over all of the other bodily functions when it is activated. However, the 
adrenal response to stress isn't supposed to last very long in duration. When a person lives with constant stress, unlike those who experience occasional demands 
followed by rest, relaxation and proper nutrition, the stressed person may develop 
adrenal stress and fatigue. Today, this is a growing concern since we tend to be 
over-worked, under-nourished, worried about money and personal problems, exposed to 
pollutants and toxins in our environment without any relief or down-time for recovery.  
Our daily challenges may include: An overbearing, demanding boss. Lack of restful sleep (quality and quantity). Fear of job loss or job loss. Job commuting pressures, rush hour traffic, road rage. Financial difficulties. Personal conflicts in relationships (home and/or work). Illness or death of a loved one. Personal illness, infection or surgery. Inadequate nutrition. Skipping meals. Unhealthy dieting with weight gain and weight loss cycles. Stimulant over-reliance (drugs, caffeine, carbohydrates). Digestive problems. Over-exercise. Unresolved past or present emotional issues. In its normal function, the adrenals release cortisol, which helps us to work with our 
challenges by converting proteins into energy, releasing glycogen and counteracting 
inflammation. This is acceptable for a short time. But at sustained high levels, 
cortisol gradually tears your body down by destroying healthy muscle and bone; slowing 
down healing and normal cell replacement; impairs digestive function and metabolism; impairs 
mental function; interferes with healthy endocrine function and coopts biochemicals needed 
to make other vital hormones required by the body; and weakens the immune system. Adrenal dysfunction may be a factor in many related conditions, including fibromyalgia , hypothyroidism , chronic fatigue syndrome , arthritis , premature menopause and others. It may also produce a host of other unpleasant symptoms, from acne to hair loss . OVERACTIVE ADRENAL CORTEX - CUSHING'S SYNDROME Cushing's Syndrome is a rare disorder caused by an overactive adrenal cortex and the excessive 
production of cortisol or by excessive use of cortisol or similar glucocorticoid (steroid) hormones. 
People with Cushing's Syndrome take on a characteristic appearance: Heavy in abdomen and buttocks with very thin limbs, and rounded "moon" faces. Muscular weakness and wasting of muscles. Round, red marks mimicking acne may appear on face. Swollen or puffy looking eyelids. Increased growth of body hair. Women may grow mustaches and beards. More susceptibility to illness and having trouble healing properly. Thinning of skin often leads to stretch marks and bruising. Fatigue. Mood swings. Depression. Increased thirst and urination. Women may experience the absence of menstrual periods. If left untreated, Cushing's syndrome may cause extreme muscle weakness, poor skin healing, weakening of the 
bones that results in osteoporosis and increased susceptibility to serious infections such as pneumonia and 
tuberculosis. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Cushing's Syndrome CAUSES The functioning ability of the adrenal glands is most often impaired as a result of the 
extensive use of cortisone therapy for non-endocrine diseases, such as arthritis and asthma. 
The long-term use of cortisone drugs causes the adrenal gland to shrink in size, and can 
result in a "Cushinoid" appearance. Adrenal problems that crop up in later life can be due to heredity. In addition, refined carbohydrates in 
the diet, such as sugar and white flour, deplete many of the nutrients required for adrenal support, especially 
the B vitamins. Adrenal enzyme deficiency, vascular spasms, degeneration, trauma, nutritional deficiencies, 
pituitary disease, tuberculosis, toxic chemical attack, or even exposure to electromagnetic fields can affect 
the adrenals. Organic chlorine and carbohydrates are suspected agents. Dioxin and fire ant poisons are known 
agents. Other chemicals that might be involved include tobacco, alcohol, street drugs, heavy metals, coffee, sugar, 
pesticides, herbicides, and fungicides. TREATMENT ADRENAL GLAND FUNCTION SELF-TEST Normally, systolic blood pressure (the first number in the measurement of blood pressure - 
120/80) is approximately 10 points higher when a person is standing than when they are lying 
down. If the adrenal glands are not functioning properly, however, this may not be the case. Take and compare two blood pressure readings - one while lying down and one while standing. 1. Lie down and rest for five minutes. 2. After five minutes, take your blood pressure. 3. Stand up immediately and take your blood pressure again. If your blood pressure reading is lower after you stand up, suspect reduced adrenal gland 
function. The degree to which the blood pressure drops upon standing is often proportionate 
to the degree of hypoadrenalism. CONSIDERATIONS A person with Addison's disease must take medication as prescribed and pay careful attention 
to diet. Nutritional supplements are often recommended. Treatment of steroid excess involves management of high blood sugar with diet and medication, replacement 
of potassium, treatment of high blood pressure, early treatment of any infections, adequate calcium 
intake, and appropriate adjustments in steroid dosages at times of acute illness, surgery, or injury. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), a hormone released by the pituitary gland when under 
stress, sets in motion a sequence of biochemical events that results in the activation of 
substances that raise blood pressure. The presence of this hormone leads to sodium retention 
and potassium excretion. As a result of this mechanism, stress not only puts strain on the 
adrenal glands, but may also cause the body to retain water, which can lead to hypertension. Distress (unresolved stress) is the most important factor in "adrenal burnout," with all
its manifestations including immune deficiency and degenerative diseases. Professional help to deal with anger and 
rage, and to deal with psychological or spiritual issues will help reduce cortisol levels. Any stress-reduction 
technique that works for you should be pursued. Decrease your consumption of caffeine and alcohol, as well as your intake of fats, salt, and sugar. If you 
smoke, stop. Conventional medical tests may consider cortisol levels within a very broad range as  
normal, and anything outside that range indicates disease after damage has already occurred 
such as in Cushing's Disease or Addison's Disease. Within those extremes, a person can feel 
miserable and still be told their adrenals are normal. Some practitioners may measure 
cortisol at several points in the day to track the adrenals' day-night pattern (diurnal 
rhythm) using a panel of simple saliva tests. The ideal outcome from this type of testing 
is to see cortisol elevated in the morning to help you get up and going in your day, 
lower but steady throughout the day to sustain energy, then fall 
in the evening to support restful sleep. Hyperadrenia : In the early stages of adrenal dysfunction, cortisol levels will be 
too high during the day and continue rising in the evening. In the middle stages of adrenal dysfunction, cortisol may rise and fall unevenly as the body 
struggles to balance itself despite the disruptions of caffeine, carbs and other factors, 
but levels are not normal and are typically too high at night. Hypoadrenia : In advanced stages of adrenal dysfunction, when the adrenals are 
exhausted from overwork, cortisol will never reach normal levels. FOR FURTHER READING: Adrenal Fatigue, the 21st Century Stress Syndrome by James Wilson. The Relaxation & Stress Reduction Workbook by Martha Davis. The Cortisol Connection: Why Stress Makes You Fat and Ruins Your Health , by Shawn 
Talbott & William Kraemer. The Relaxation Response by Herbert Benson, MD. The Schwarzbein Principle II , Dr. Schwarzbein's second book, explores more deeply 
the relationship between adrenal stress and insulin resistance. Dr. Christine Northrup gives great inspiration in her work Creating Health: Honoring Women's Wisdom Adrenal Stress Panel by North Bay Diagnostics for Home Testing . This product tests 
cortisol levels, an adrenal hormone which is directly related to the body's stress response, 
using saliva samples that are collected at approximately four time points throughout the day. HERBAL & HOLISTIC RECOMMENDATIONS HERBS Astragalus improves adrenal gland function and aids in stress reduction. Caution: Do not use this herb in the presence of a fever. ASTRAGALUS: Chinese people consider Astragalus to be a better energy tonic for young people than ginseng. This herb 
is also used to help ward off or treat colds, improve heart function, memory, and learning, and promote 
the healing of wounded skin. Astragalus works well in treating anorexia, arthritis, diabetes, hypertension, 
malaria, kidney inflammations, painful urination, prolapsed uterus, uterine bleeding, edema, water retention, 
constipation, fever, and generalized weakness. In test tubes, Astragalus has been found to promote the 
formation of antibodies and increase the production of T-cells, on of the body's key lines of defense 
against disease. A recent clinical trial verified the herb's ability to boost the supply of infection-fighting
white blood cells. Astragalus also has a proven ability to boost heart function and improve cardiac 
output. It helps relieve chest distress and breathlessness due to a weakened heart. Mountain Rose Herbs: Astragalus, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: Astragalus Root, Nature's Way, 470 mg, 180 VCaps HerbalRemedies: Astragalus Immunity Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags HerbalRemedies: Astragalus (Standardized 0.5% Astragalosides), Natures's Way, 60 VCaps HerbalRemedies: Astragalus Root (Astragalus membranaceus) Powder, 4 oz. Bulk Herbal Remedies: Astragalus Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. China Gold from Aerobic Life Industries is a herbal combination formula that helps to stimulate adrenal function
and combat fatigue. It contains ten different varieties of ginseng plus twenty-six other valuable herbs. Using echinacea can increase white blood cell production and protect tissues from bacteria invasion. ECHINACEA Three species of the Echinacea herb are useful in medicine: Echinacea augustifolia, Echinacea purpures, 
and Echinacea pallida. Research has shown that Echinacea increases production of interferon in the body, 
which helps increase antiviral activity against influenza (flu) and herpes, an inflammation of the skin 
and mouth. It is antiseptic and antimicrobial, with properties that act to increase the number of white 
blood cells available to destroy bacteria and slow the spread of infection. This herb is thought to be an 
immune stimulant. Taking this herb at the first sign of cold or flu symptoms can actually shorten the term 
of a cold or even abort it when caught early enough. Echinacea is usually taken at the onset of a cold or flu and continued for 7 to 14 days. When using a 
powdered extract, take 300 mg 3 times a day. The standard dosage of an alcohol tincture (1:5) is 3 to 4 
ml 3 times daily. For Echinacea juice, take 2 to 3 ml 3 times a day, and the whole root, 1 to 2 g, 3 
times a day. Echinacea comes in many forms: Capsules, Tablets, Powder and Tincture, the best result is 
to follow the instructions on the package. Mountain Rose Herbs: Echinacea, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: Echinacea Herb, Nature's Way, 400 mg, 180 Caps HerbalRemedies: Echinacea Purpurea Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. HerbalRemedies: Echinacea Extract, Standardized, Nature's Way, 340 mg, 60 Caps HerbalRemedies: Echinacea Tincture, Nature's Way, Alcohol Free, 1 fl. oz. HerbalRemedies: Echinacea Augustifolia Root Powder, 4 oz. Bulk Milk thistle extract aids in liver function, which in turn helps adrenal function. MILK THISTLE: Milk thistle extract is a potent antioxidant which prevents harm from free radicals and lends nutritional 
support to the liver. Milk thistle seed extract contains silymarin, a unique type of flavonoid-like 
compound considered the active ingredient of milk thistle. Mountain Rose Herbs: Milk Thistle, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: Thisilyn, Milk Thistle Extract, Nature's Way, 175 mg, 100 VCaps HerbalRemedies: Milk Thistle (Silybum marianum silymarin), Standardized Extract, Nature's Way, 175 mg, 60 VCaps Siberian ginseng is an herb that helps the adrenal glands prepare the body for stressful 
situations. Caution: Do not use this herb if you have hypoglycemia, high blood pressure, or a heart disorder. SIBERIAN GINSENG: Siberian Ginseng strengthens the adrenal and reproductive glands. It enhances immune function, helps 
prevent infection, promotes lung functioning and stimulates the appetite. It useful for bronchitis, 
circulatory problems, diabetes, infertility, lack of energy, and stress. There is some evidence that 
it can help ease withdrawal from cocaine, and help improve drug or alcohol induced liver dysfunction in 
older adults. Siberian Ginseng protects the body against the effects of radiation exposure. It is used 
by athletes for overall body strengthening. Siberian Ginseng is most effective in the treatment of 
prolonged exhaustion and debility, resulting from overwork and long-term stress. As a decoction take 35 ml of Siberian Ginseng 2 times a day for use as a general tonic. To take in tincture 
form, use 1/2 teaspoon with water 3 times a day. For other forms, read follow product label directions. HerbalRemedies: Eleutheroccocus senticosus (Siberian Ginseng) Powder, Alternative Health & Herbs, 4 oz. Bulk HerbalRemedies: STD Siberian Ginseng Root Extract, Nature's Way, 485 mg, 60 Caps HerbalRemedies: Siberian Ginseng Root, Nature's Way, 410 mg, 100 Caps Calming herbs such as Kava Kava, St. John's Wort and Valerian are good stress reducers. KAVA KAVA: The German Commission E recommends Kava for treating nervous anxiety, tension, and agitation. It is also 
used to relieve stress and reduce insomnia, tension headaches, and alcohol withdrawal. Kava is sometimes 
used as a local anesthetic. When combined with pumpkin seed, it is used in treating irritable bladder 
syndrome. Kava is used in Hawaii to reduce anxiety and fatigue, induce sleep, but is also used to treat 
asthma, arthritis pains, and urinary difficulties. Medical tests suggest it may be helpful in treating 
psychosomatic symptoms in menopause. In the South Sea Islands, Kava Kava is used as a calming and stimulating 
intoxicant. Taken in large quantities this herb produces a euphoric state. There are many forms of Kava and the quality varies with each manufacturer. Due to the nature of this 
herb, it is best to consult with a health care provider before using this herb for the treatment of your condition. Mountain Rose Herbs: Kava Kava, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: Kava Kava Root Extract, Standardized to 30% Kavalactones, 250 mg, 120 Caps HerbalRemedies: Kava Kava Root, Maximum Strength, Standardized to 90% Kavalactones, 175 mg, 60 Caps HerbalRemedies: Kava Kava Root (Piper methysticum) Powder, 4 oz. Bulk HerbalRemedies: Kava Kava Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. ST. JOHN'S WORT: St. John's Wort is mainly used for the treatment of mild to moderate depression. It can also be used for 
chronic insomnia and anxiety related to depression. St. John's Wort may also be effective in relieving 
seasonal affective disorder (SAD). St. John's Wort extract is usually standardized to the substance hypercin. The recommended dose of 
St. John's Wort is 300 mg 3 times a day of an extract standardized to contain 0.3% hypercin; however, 
a few new products on the market are standardized to hyperforin content of 2 to 3%, instead of hypercin, 
and should be taken at the same dosage. If the herb bothers you, take it with food. It can take four weeks 
of usage to receive the full benefits of St. John's Wort. Mountain Rose Herbs: St. John's Wort, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: St. John's Wort, 350 mg, 180 Caps HerbalRemedies: St. John's Wort, Standardized Extract, Nature's Way, 300 mg, 90 Caps HerbalRemedies: St. John's Wort Herb Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. HerbalRemedies: St. John's Wort Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags VALERIAN: In the 1970s, scientific human studies were performed on Valerian which lead the German Commission E 
to approve its use a sleep aid in 1985. This herb works well in treating depression, panic attacks, 
emotional stress, PMS, menstrual cramps, and despondency. It is also used for hypochondria, nervous 
headaches, migraine headaches, irritability, hysteria, and mild spasmodic affections. Valerian has 
been used to treat diarrhea, epilepsy, croup, convulsions, vertigo, nervous cough, delirium, neuralgia, 
muscle cramps, gas pains, stomach cramps, spasms, palpitations, gas, and colic. For treating insomnia, the recommended dosage of Valerian Root is 2 to 3 g of dried herb, 270 to 450 mg 
of an aqueous valerian extract, or 600 mg of an ethanol extract, taken 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime. 
For the best results, take this herb over an extended period of time. Try the same dosages for treating 
anxiety, or reduce the dose and take twice daily. Note: These dosages are meant to be used as guidelines. 
Always read product label directions before use. Mountain Rose Herbs: Valerian, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: Valerian Root, 530 mg, 100 VCaps HerbalRemedies: Valerian Root Tincture (Valeriana officinalis), Alcohol Free w/Glycerin, 100% Organic, 1 fl. oz. HerbalRemedies: Valerian Root Standardized Extract, 510 mg, 90 Caps HerbalRemedies: Valerian Root Powder, 100% Organic, 4 oz. Bulk HerbalRemedies: Valerian Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), also known as Winter Cherry, may be helpful. ASHWAGANDHA: Ashwagandha is similar to ginseng but far less expensive. Ashwagandha was called "Indian Ginseng". 
Ashwagandha is Ayurvedas superior rejuvenative herb for the muscles, bone marrow and semen. This herb 
is superior for stress, weakness, tissue deficiency, the elderly, overwork, lack of sleep, nervous 
exhaustion, sexual debility, problems of old age, loss of memory, loss of muscular energy, insomnia, weak 
eyes, cough, infertility, glandular swelling. It inhibits ageing and catalyzes the anabolic processes 
of the body, nurtures and clarifies the mind promoting dreamless sleep. Ashwagandha helps the body adapt 
to stress, but it also rebuilds the nervous system without stimulating it, a wonderful sleep tonic. 
In the morning it helps build the immune system and muscular-skeletal systems, both of which are negatively 
impacted by stress and helps those under stress. Ashwagandha comes in various forms and is an ingredient in many products. The suggested dosage is 1 
teaspoon of powder twice a day, boiled in milk or water. Those who are young or especially weak should 
take a lower dosage. For best results, read and follow product label directions. Mountain Rose Herbs: Ashwagandha, Organic Bulk Herbs HerbalRemedies: Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), 450 mg, 120 VCaps HerbalRemedies: Ashwagandha Extract (Standardized 2.5% Withanolides), Nature's Way, 60 VCaps HerbalRemedies: Ashwagandha Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. HerbalRemedies: Ashwagandha Root Powder, 4 oz. Bulk RECOMMENDATIONS Consume plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables (particularly green leafy ones). Brewer's 
yeast, brown rice, legumes, nuts, olive and safflower seeds, wheat germ, and whole grains are 
healthy additions to the diet as well. Eat deep-water ocean fish, salmon, or tuna at least three times a week. Include in the diet garlic, onions, shiitake mushrooms and pearl barley. These foods contain 
germanium, a powerful stimulant of the immune system. Avoid alcohol, caffeine, and tobacco; these substances are highly toxic to the adrenal 
and other glands. Stay away from fats, fried foods, ham, pork, highly processed foods, red meats, sodas, 
sugar, and white flour. These foods put unnecessary stress on the adrenal glands. Get regular moderate exercise. This stimulates the adrenal glands and also helps to relieve stress. As much as possible, avoid stress. Continuous and prolonged stress from a troubled 
relationship, job-related problems, illness, or feelings of low self-esteem or loneliness can 
be detrimental to the adrenal glands. Take positive action to relieve stressful situations. MoonDragon's Stress Information NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENTS Unless otherwise specified, the dosages recommended in this section are for adults. NUTRIENTS Supplement Suggested Dosage Comments Essential Vitamin B complex 100 mg twice daily. All B vitamins are necessary for adrenal function. Ultimate B (Vitamin B Complex), Nature's Secret, 60 Tabs , Vitamin B-100 Complex, w/ Coenzyme B-2, Nature's Way, 631 mg, 100 Caps Plus extra Pantothenic Acid (vitamin B-5) 100 mg 3 times daily. The adrenal glands do not function adequately without pantothenic acid. Vitamin B-5 (Pantothenic Acid), 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 250 mg, 100 Caps Vitamin C with bioflavonoids 4,000 - 10,000 mg daily, in divided doses. Vital for proper functioning of the adrenals. Vitamin C Liquid w/ Rose Hips & Bioflavonoids, Kosher, Natural Citrus Flavor, Dynamic Health, 
1000 mg, 16 fl. oz. , Ester C With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 1000 mg, 90 Tabs , Vitamin C 1000 With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 VCaps , The Right C, Nature's Way, 1000 mg, 120 Tabs Very Important Coenzyme A As directed on label. Needed for proper functioning of the adrenal glands. Reduces stress. Pantethine (Coenzyme A Precursor), Highly Active Form of Vitamin B-5, 300 mg, NOW Foods, 60 Softgels , L-Tyrosine 500 mg daily, on an empty stomach. Take with water or juice. Do not 
take with milk. Take with 50 mg vitamin B-6- and 100 mg vitamin C for better absorption. Aids in adrenal gland function and relieves excess stress put on the 
glands. Caution: Do not take tyrosine if you are taking an MAO inhibitor drug. L-Tyrosine, Pharmaceutical Grade, Free Form, NOW Foods, 500 mg, 120 Caps Important Raw Adrenal And Raw Adrenal Cortex Glandular As directed on labels. Protein derived from the adrenal gland substance helps to rebuild 
and repair the adrenal glands. Adrenal, Organic Glandular (Hypoallergenic), Allergy Research Group / Nutricology, 75 Caps , Adrenal Cortex, Organic Glandular (Hypoallergenic), Allergy Research Group / Nutricology, 100 Caps Chlorophyll As directed on labels. Cleanses the bloodstream. Chlorophyll With Alfalfa Powder, 100 mg, NOW Foods, 90 Caps , Chlorella Powder, NOW Foods, 100% Pure, 4 oz. , Vital Greens, Vital Earth, 180 Caps , Barley Grass (Hordeum Vulgare), Whole Leaf Bulk Powder, Nature's Way, 100% Pure, 9 oz. Coenzyme Q-10 60 mg daily. Carries oxygen to all glands. CoQ-10, Vegetarian Coenzyme, NOW Foods, 30 mg, 60 VCaps Multi-Vitamin & Mineral Complex As directed on label. All nutrients are needed for proper adrenal function. Use a high 
potency formula. Super Multi-Vitamin & Multi-Mineral, Pure Vital Earth, 32 fl. oz. (98% Bio-Available for Absorption) , Damage Control Master Formula, High Potency, Multi-Vitamin & Mineral, 60 Packets (30 Day Supply) With Calcium 1,500 mg daily. All nutrients are needed for proper adrenal function. Calcium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 700 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Calcium Citrate / Malate Complex, Nature's Way, 500 mg, 250 Caps And Magnesium 750 mg daily. All nutrients are needed for proper adrenal function. Magnesium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 350 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Magnesium Complex, Nature's Way, 250 mg, 100 Caps Plus Natural Beta Carotene 15,000 IU daily. All nutrients are needed for proper adrenal function. If you have diabetes, 
use a formula without Beta-Carotene. Beta Carotene (Natural Dunaliella salina), Nature's Way, 25,000 IU, 100 Softgels , Multi-Carotene Antioxidant Complex, Nature's Way, 30,000 IU Beta-Carotene, 60 Softgels And Copper 3 mg daily. All nutrients are needed for proper adrenal function. Copper Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 50 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. And Potassium 3 mg daily. All nutrients are needed for proper adrenal function. Needed to balance with 
sodium. Potassium depleted with this disorder. Potassium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 340 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Potassium, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 99 mg, 100 Caps And Zinc 50 mg daily. Do not exceed a total of 100 mg daily from all supplements. Boosts immune function. Zinc Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 100 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver & Zinc Lozenges, Silva Solution, 90 Lozenges , Zinc Lozenges W/ Echinacea & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 23 mg, 60 Lozenges , Zinc Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 100 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Zinc (Chelated), 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 30 mg, 100 Caps Germanium 100 mg daily. Enhances immune function. Germanium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 50 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. Raw liver extract As directed on label. Supplies natural B vitamins, iron, and enzymes. Raw spleen and raw pituitary glandular As directed on label. Boosts immune function and aids healing process. SAM-e (S-Adenosylmethionine) As directed on label. Helps to reduce stress and depression. Gives a sense of well-being. Caution: Do not use if you have manic-depressive disorder or take prescription antidepressants. SAM-e, Enteric Coated, NOW Foods, 100 mg, 30 Tabs ADRENAL DISORDERS SUPPLEMENTS Adrenal Disorders Supplements: Information and products to support and help adrenal glands function properly. Adrenal Cortex, Organic Glandular (Hypoallergenic), Allergy Research Group / Nutricology, 100 Caps Supports the cortex portion of the adrenal gland. The adrenal cortex is the outer portion of the adrenal 
gland and is involved in the secretion of a variety of adrenal hormones, mainly cortisol. Adrenal Energy, NutraMedix, 1 fl. oz. (30 ml) NutraMedix utilizes a proprietary extraction and enhancement process that provides a highly bio-available full 
spectrum extract. Adrenal Fatigue: The 21st Century Stress Syndrome by James Wilson, N.D., D.C. With clear, easy to understand directions, Dr. Wilson shows you not only how to find out if you are suffering 
from adrenal fatigue, but what to do to feel good again. Adrenals and Hypoglycemia Treatment Formula Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Adrenals and Hypoglycemia Treatment Formula is used to restore energy, help regulate blood sugar and support the 
adrenal glands. Ashwagandha, Promotes Vitality & Strength, Banyan Botanicals, 90 Tabs Ashwagandha is one of the most highly regarded and commonly used adaptogens in the Ayurvedic pharmacopoeia. 
Maximizing the bodies ability to resist stress, it enables the body to reserve and sustain vital energy throughout 
the day while promoting sound, restful sleep at night. Avea Mood Liquid Extract, 30 ml Via the proprietary extraction and enhancement process utilized to produce Avea, the product has been enhanced to 
address the majority of the causes of endogenous depression. Back to Youth, TCM Formula, Congrong Huanshao, 100% Natural, 60 Caps Back to Youth, TCM Formula is made of extracts from prepared rehmannia root, common yam, achyranthes, wolfberry, 
dogwood fruit, poria, salty eucommia bark, polygala prepared with licorice, roasted morinda, achizandra fruit, 
salty fennel, chinquapin seed, cistanche, acorus root and common jujube fruit, Chinese herbs for aging. Blood Circulator, 100% Natural, Jingui Huayu, 450 mg, 60 Caps This time-honored formula is used in Chinese medicine to promote micro-circulation, increase blood flow to heart 
muscles, open and clear arteries, inhibit intestinal adhesion, soothe the liver, remove stasis and maintain 
healthy blood circulation and regular menses. Blood Pressure Balance TCM Formula, Gegen Pingya, 100% Natural, 60 Caps Blood Pressure Balance TCM Formula is made of pueraria root and lotus embryo, this well-known blood pressure herb 
formula is used in Chinese medicine to maintain healthy blood pressure and blood flow. Bowel & Liver Cleanser Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Use Bowel & Liver Cleanser for travel, especially when going to other countries. BriteMind Elder for Enhanced Brain Function, Luma Congmin, 100% Natural, 500 mg, 60 Caps This time honored formula is used in Chinese medicine to maintain healthy brain and mental functions, 
and sexual potency. BurnMore, Thermogenic weight Loss Supplement, Nature's Secret, 60 Tabs Nature's Secret BurnMore Weight Loss Supplement is a thermogenic formula that works with your body to increase 
its natural ability to burn fat and accelerates the metabolism without the use of harsh stimulants. Digestive Enzymes, 750 mg, 100 Caps Since cooking destroys many of the digestive enzymes in food, taking plant fiber-based digestive enzymes aids 
in digesting even the heaviest meal. Kidney Formula Supports Proper Function of the Kidneys & Adrenals, Banyan Botanicals, 90 Tabs Kidney Formula is a rejuvenating tonic for the kidneys and adrenals. It promotes healthy urinary flow and composition, 
assisting in the natural cleansing of the blood. This energizing combination of herbs aids in the dissolution 
and elimination of urinary stones, as well as decreasing the risk factors involved with their formation. Renewal Fitness for Women, HGH Somatropin, 1 fl. oz. Thirty uniquely combined, safe and doctor formulated ingredients, the infusion of full spectrum light, gem 
essences of yellow sapphire, clear quartz and charoite, to help maximize energy, strength, hormonal balance and tone. Super Cortisol Support with Relora, Vegetarian Adrenal Support Formula, 90 VCaps Super Cortisol Support is an herbal and nutritional formula designed to support healthy adrenal function and 
maintain healthy cortisol levels. Adrenal Disorders Supplements, Information & Products A full list of recommended products from HerbalRemedies.com for Adrenal Disorders. ADDISON'S DISEASE SUPPLEMENTS Addison's Disease Supplements: Information for help with Addison's disease, a rare disorder 
that occurs when the adrenal glands are not able to produce enough of the hormones cortisol 
and aldosterone. Astragalus Immunity Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags Help maintain normal functions of the liver, lung, kidney, stomach and heart, to boost energy, 
defer aging, detoxify, etc. To bolster white blood cells growth, support the immune systems, 
and to promote the effect of other herbs, and help reduce side effect of chemotherapy and radiation. Astragalus Root, 470 mg, 180 Vcaps Astragalus root is considered to have a normalizing effect on the body's functions. Astragalus 
is an important herb in Chinese medicine and is commonly included in Chinese cuisine. Astragalus Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Astragalus root is used to stimulate the immune system and astragalus root improves adrenal 
gland function and digestion. Chlorofresh, 50 mg, 90 Softgels Chlorofresh is used chiefly as an aid to reduce odor from a colostomy or ileostomy and to 
reduce fecal odor due to incontinence. However, Chlorofresh capsules also work effectively as 
an internal breath freshener. Coenzyme Q-10: All-Around Nutrient for All-Around Health! Latest Research As a Heart Strengthener, 
Energy Promoter, Aging Fighter and Much More This Book discusses an amazing antioxidant that helps patients with heart failure, hypertension, 
coronary artery disease, high cholesterol levels and other diseases. CoQ10, Vegetarian Coenzyme, 30 mg, 60 Vcaps A coenzyme for several key steps in the production of energy within each cell, and an 
antioxidant important in its clinical effects. It is these two properties make CoQ10 one of 
the best supplements available today. Echinacea Astragalus and Reishi, 400 mg, 100 Caps Echinacea purpurea supports the immune system, while Astragalus and Reishi are two of the most 
important traditional Chinese medicinal herb tonics. Echinacea Root Complex, Certified Organic, 180 Caps Echinacea Root Complex helps promote general well-being during the cold and flu season and 
support the Immune System. Ex-Stress Formula w/ Valerian, 430 mg, 100 Caps Relieve stress the all natural way with Nature's Way Ex-Stress Formula with Valerian.  
Ex-Stress combines popular herbs like Valerian, Hops and Black Cohosh traditionally used to 
relax the body's systems and provide general health maintenance. L-Tyrosine, Pharmaceutical Grade, Free Form, 500 mg, 120 Caps L-Tyrosine is used to treat insomnia, improve muscle tone, improve skin and hair pigment and 
depression and anxiety. L-Tyrosine should not to be used while taking prescription 
antidepressants or MAO inhibitors. Milk Thistle (Silybum marianum silymarin) Standardized Extract, 175 mg, 60 Caps Milk thistle extract is a potent antioxidant which prevents harm from free radicals and lends 
nutritional support to the liver. Milk thistle seed extract contains silymarin, a unique type 
of flavonoid-like compound considered the active ingredient of milk thistle. Pantothenic Acid, 100% Natural Vitamin B5, 250 mg, 100 Caps Pantothenic acid vitamin B-5 is converted to coenzyme A, which is involved in the biochemical 
cycles responsible for conversion of fats, proteins and carbohydrates into energy. Siberian Eleuthero Root, (Eleuthero, Eleutherococcus Senticosus Root), 410 mg, 100 Caps Siberian Ginseng Root (Eleutherococcus Senticosus Root) improves physical an mental vitality. 
It is an adaptogenic herb, which helps the body to adapt to daily stress. It is an ideal 
supplement for those leading a demanding and hectic lifestyle. Siberian Ginseng Root Vascutone Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags Siberian Ginseng Root helps support the immune system, improve memory, endurance, vitality, 
and to balance hormone levels in male and female. St. John's Wort, 350 mg, 180 Caps St. John's Wort is helpful in support of depression, menopause, cramps, and insomnia. St. John's Wort Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags St. John's Wort Herb Tea is made of wild St. John's Wort and Siberian Ginseng. These Herbs 
tonify the nervous system, ease anxiety and depression, and support the immune system. St. Johns Wort Herb Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. St. John's Wort is mainly used for the treatment of mild to moderate depression. Valerian Root Extract (Standardized), 510 mg, 90 Caps Valerian root nourishes the nervous system and has soothing properties. Valerian is a safe and 
natural sleeping aid. It helps soothe rattled nerves and assists the body in relieving insomnia. Vitamin C 1000 with Bioflavonoids, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 Vcaps Vitamin C provides antioxidant protection for many of the body's' important enzyme systems. 
White blood cells utilize Vitamin C to help produce cytotoxic enzymes which they use to 
eliminate foreign matter. HerbalRemedies: Adrenal Disorder Information HerbalRemedies: Adrenal Disorders Supplements, Information & Products Herbal Remedies: Addison's Disease Information NOTIFY YOUR MIDWIFE OR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER IF... You have symptoms of adrenal function abnormalities. You have any unexpected or unusual symptoms.  Some people may have sensitivity,
allergies, or other health conditions which would prevent them from using certain herbs,
medications, or other treatments. For a full list of available products from Mountain Rose Herbs, click on banner below: HELPFUL PRODUCTS & FURTHER EDUCATION Prescription for Nutritional Healing: The A-To-Z Guide To Supplements -- by Phyllis A. Balch, James F. Balch - 2nd Edition Prescription for Nutritional Healing: The A-To-Z Guide To Supplements -- by Phyllis A. Balch, James F. Balch - 4th Edition Prescription for Herbal Healing: The A-To-Z Reference To Common Disorders -- by Phyllis A. Balch The Complete Guide to Natural Healing If you see a suggested Amazon product "not there" as indicated by an orange box with the Amazon logo, this 
only means the specific product link has been changed by Amazon.com. Use the "click here" icon on the orange box 
and it will bring you to Amazon.com and you can do a search for a specific product using keywords and a new list 
of available products and prices will show. Their product and resource links are constantly changing and being 
upgraded. Many times there are more than one link to a specific product. Prices will vary between product 
distributors so it pays to shop around and do price comparisons. Educational materials and health products are available through Amazon.com. 
Use the search box provided below to search for a particular item. HERBS, OILS, & SUPPLIES MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Manufacturers & Distributors Mountain Rose Bulk Herbs Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs A Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs B Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs C Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs D Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs E Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs F Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs G Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs H Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs I Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs J Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs K Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs L Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs M Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs N Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs O Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs P Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs R Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs S Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs T Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs U Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs V Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs W Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs Y Mountain Rose Aromatherapy Oils Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils A-B Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils C-E Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils F-L Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils M-P Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils Q-Z Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Oil Blends & Resins Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Diffusers, Nebulizers, & Burners Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Oil Kits Mountain Rose Herbs.com: Order Online Accessories & Tools Aromatherapy Aroma Sprays and Flower Waters Babies/Children Body and Bath Bottles, Jars & Containers Bulk Herbs Bulk Ingredients Bulk Oils Butters Capsules Clays Dental Care Essential Oils Facial Care Green & Black Teas Hair Care Herbal Extracts Herbal Oils Herbal Salves & Balms Herbal Teas Herbs for Pets Incense, Resins and Candles Lotions Massage Oils Medicinal Herb Seeds Tea Brewing Supplies Women's Products Click Here To Visit Herbal Remedies Product Page A Source For Medicinal & Ritual Herbs & Supplies Aphrodisiacs Aromatherapy Bath & Body Care Bulk Herbs By The Pound Capsules, Tablets & Extracts Chinese Herbals Electronics Extracts First Aid Products Food Products, Mixes, Seeds, Snacks & More! Hair Care Products & Supplies Herbs & Oils, Kilo & Ton Hydroponics & Gardening Kava Products Kitchen & Housewares Mushrooms Musical Instruments Oral Care & Dental Products PC & IT - Computer Supplies & Assessories Skin Care, Cosmetics, & Gift Sets Smokes, Seeds, Cacti Spices, Salts, Sweeteners, & Seasonings Sports, Toys & Games Sweets, Candy, Chips & Snacks Stimulants Sedatives Teas & Coffees Shaman Shop Home Page MoonDragon's Nutrition Information Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Nutrition Basics Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Therapy Index MoonDragon's Nutrition Therapy Index MoonDragon's Alternative Health Information Index MoonDragon's Aromatherapy Information Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness Index MoonDragon's ObGyn Information Index by Subject Order MoonDragon's ObGyn Information Index by Alphabetical