
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 20:53:52 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 20:53:52 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-type: text/html

The Right Exercise Program for Low Back Pain | Bastyr Center for Natural Health Home Health Information Health Care Services Our Providers Patient Care Dispensaries News and Events Overview Health Conditions and Concerns Conditions A-M Conditions N-Z Healthy Lifestyle Tips Healthy & Wise Newsletter Bastyr Health-E News News and Events Recommended Reading List Recipes National and Community Resources The Right Exercise Program for Low Back Pain Recreational exercise is better than specific back exercises for low back pain, according to a study in the American Journal of Public Health (2005;95:1817–24). Researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles, studied 681 people with low back pain for 18 months to estimate the effects of recreational physical activity and back exercise on back pain. Study participants were randomly assigned to one of four treatments groups: (1) chiropractic care with physical therapy; (2) chiropractic care without physical therapy; (3) medical care with physical therapy; and (4) medical care without physical therapy. In each treatment group, the researchers compared the results of recreational exercise with specific low back exercises. People who engaged in more recreational activity had less low back pain, disability, and psychological distress, while people who engaged in more specific low back exercises tended to have more. The results suggest that general activity might be beneficial for back pain, whereas back exercises might be harmful. Because of limitations in the study design, however, it is premature to conclude that back exercises are not good for bad backs. Rather than certain types of activity and exercise causing improvement or worsening of back pain, it is possible that the cause and effect is the other way around. In other words, it may be that people who have more intense low back pain are less inclined to engage in recreational activity than people without the acute pain. It could also mean that people with more chronic and disabling histories of back pain are more likely to do specific back exercises. It makes sense that people who are in acute pain would shun recreational sports and instead try to stretch and move to rehabilitate their low backs. Also, the authors didn’t collect information on the specific types of back exercises people were doing, so it is possible that some types of exercises are beneficial and some are harmful. Low back pain is one of the most common complaints leading people to seek medical care, and it has been reported as the single most common reason people seek complementary care, such as chiropractic. For those who experience low back pain, it is often a recurrent, and sometimes extremely debilitating, problem. There is no consensus among physicians, physical therapists, or chiropractors on how best to treat low back pain. The most common treatment modalities include manipulation, drugs (pain medications and anti-inflammatory drugs), physical therapy, and in severe cases surgery. Contrary to a popular misconception, bed rest is typically not recommended. Sleeping in a fetal position with a rolled towel between the knees may help. Ice is recommended in the first 48 hours. After that, hot applications are preferable. Lifting, twisting, and bending should be avoided when the pain is still acute; walking, swimming, or other regular, gentle motion exercises should be initiated as soon as tolerable. The strongest finding in the present study is that recreational exercise is good for low back health in people with low back pain. The question of what, if any, specific back exercises should be used or avoided merits further study. Jeremy Appleton, ND, CNS , is a licensed naturopathic physician, certified nutrition specialist, and published author. Dr. Appleton was the Nutrition Department Chair at the National College of Naturopathic Medicine, has served on the faculty at Bastyr University of Natural Health Sciences, and is a former Healthnotes Senior Science Editor and a founding contributor to Healthnotes Newswire . He has worked extensively in scientific and regulatory affairs in the supplement industry and is now a consultant through his company Praxis Natural Products Consulting and Wellness Services. Copyright © 2006 Healthnotes, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of the Healthnotes® content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Healthnotes, Inc. Healthnotes Newswire is for educational or informational purposes only, and is not intended to diagnose or provide treatment for any condition. If you have any concerns about your own health, you should always consult with a healthcare professional. Healthnotes, Inc. shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. HEALTHNOTES and the Healthnotes logo are registered trademarks of Healthnotes, Inc. Pain » Exotic Berry May Offer Gains for Pain » A 4-Point Plan for Protecting Active Joints » Coping with Chronic Back Pain » Exercise as Pain Therapy » Comfrey Ointment Linked to Back Pain Relief » Long-Term Relief for Lower-Back Pain » Got a Pain in the Knee? This Herb May Help » Vitamin D—Natural Relief for Low Back Pain? » Got a Pain in the Neck? The Right Exercise May Help » Acupuncture Offers Real Results for Pain Patients » Mud Therapy Helps People with Fibromyalgia » Proper Nutrition Improves Treatment Outcome for Severe Endometriosis » Musical Therapy for Chronic Pain » Omega-3s—a New Pain-Management Alternative » Manage Back Pain with an Ancient Chinese Cure » The Right Exercise Program for Low Back Pain » Individualized Homeopathy Helps Fibromyalgia Sufferers » Exercise Classes Help People with Fibromyalgia » Get Beyond Back Pain with Acupuncture » In Search of a Pain-Free Life » Naturopathic Medicine for Pain Relief » Craniosacral Therapy for Pain Relief » Electroacupuncture for Pain Relief » Herbs for Pain » Chinese Medicine Helps Ease » “Herbal Aspirin” Effective for Low Back Pain » Acupressure Relieves Menstrual Pain? » Acupuncture Effective for Pain Management » Evidence that Acupuncture Relieves Chronic Low Back Pain » Chronic Pain in the Elderly and Qi Gong » Devil’s Claw for Back, Knee, and Hip Pain » Moderate Exercise May Reduce Knee Pain » Strength Training Treatment for Chronic Neck Pain in Women » Magnet Therapy Effective for Chronic Pelvic Pain » Medium-Firm Mattress Is Helpful for Low Back Pain » Vitamin D Treats Chronic Low Back Pain » Vitamin E Relieves Menstrual Cramps » 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | Want to find the provider that's right for you?
								Learn more about our health
								care providers. » We offer several types of health care services. To
					schedule an appointment, call us today. » The health information contained in this site is not
				intended as medical advice and should not be considered a substitute
				for appropriate medical care. Any products mentioned in studies cited
				in Healthnotes articles are not necessarily endorsed by Bastyr. As
				with any product, consult with a natural health practitioner to discuss
				what may be best for you. Submit a contact request or call us to schedule an appointment » Natural medicine can treat many types of conditions including: Allergies » Respiratory Disorders » Digestion » Chronic pain » Fatigue » Headaches » Depression » More treatable health conditions » Interested in finding a provider who's right for you? We recommend that your first visit at BCNH be with a Naturopathic Medicine Provider. » Home | Health Information | Health Care Services | Our Providers | Patient Care | Dispensaries About BCNH | Contact Us | Appointments | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Bastyr University Bastyr Center for Natural Health | 3670 Stone Way N., Seattle, Washington 98103 | Appointments & Inform