
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 08:56:40 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: max-age=1
Expires: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 08:56:41 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture Research: WHO - World Health Organization 
	Acupuncture & Traditional Chinese Medicine information (Vancouver, Chinese herbal medicine,
tuina massage, Chinese herbs, pictures, women's health, Chinese medicine history, common disease treatment, acupuncture
theory, points), weblog, discussion board,
bulletin board, forums Traditional Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture Health Information Organization Created by West TCM, Vancouver / Langley Canada Visit West TCM at their clinical practices; Spence Pentland Acupuncturist in Vancouver , 
  and Ryan Funk Acupuncturist in Langley Home Acupuncture Herbs Herbal Formulas Foundation/Diagnosis Internal Medicine Gynecology/Obstetrics Tuina Massage Pediatrics Dermatology Gerontology Food Cure Special Senses Common Diseases Qigong/Taiji Practitioner Search Journals Schools History W.H.O. Research Tests Store AcuBlog Forum Links Search TCM info Condition Index Abdominal Pain Acid Reflux Acne Allergies Amenorrhea Angina Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Blepharitis Bronchitis (children) Bipolar Breast tenderness Cancer Cardiovascular Cataracts Chalzion Chicken Pox Chronic Back Pain Chronic Bronchitis Conjunctivitis Constipation Cough Candida Deafness Depression Diabetes Diarrhea Difficult Labour Digestive disorders Dizziness Doula services Dysmenorrhea Ear infection Eclampsia Enuresis Eczema Excessive tearing Eyelid twitch/spasm Frost bite Glaucoma Gonorrhea Headache Heart Disease Heart Failure Hemorrhoids Hepatitis High Cholesterol High Blood Pressure Hordeolum (stye) Hypertension Impotence Insomnia Kuang Dian Lacrimation Late period Leukorrhea Lochia (prolonged) Lower Back Pain Manic depression Menopause Mental Disorders Migraine Mood disorders Morning sickness Myocardial weakness Nasal congestion Nose bleed Obesity Otitis Media Palpitation Personality disorders Pharyngitis Pimples Postpartum disorders Pregnancy early signs Pregnancy information Pregnancy disorders PMS Rhinitis Schizophrenia Sinusitis STD's Stomach disorders Stomachache Stye Tearing (excessive) Tonsillitis Urinary tract infection Vaginal discharge Warts Women's Health Whooping Cough Yeast infection Zits ChineseMedicineBlog.net Acupuncture Research: WHO - World Health Organization 1. Diseases and disorders that can be treated with acupuncture 2. Review of clinical Acupuncture trial reports Pain Infections Neurological disorders Respiratory disorders Digestive disorders Blood disorders Urogenital disorders Gynecological and Obstetric disorders Cardiovascular disorders Psychiatric disorders Pediatric disorders Sense organ disorders Skin disorders Cancers Others 3. References Diseases and disorders that can be treated with acupuncture The diseases or disorders for which acupuncture therapy has been tested in 
controlled clinical trials reported in the recent literature can be 
classified into four categories as shown below. Click on the condition to see 
summaries of the supporting studies. 1. Diseases, symptoms or conditions for which acupuncture has been proved— 
through controlled trials—to be an effective treatment : Adverse reactions to radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy Allergic rhinitis (including hay fever) Biliary colic Depression (including depressive neurosis and depression following stroke) Dysentery, acute bacillary Dysmenorrhoea, primary Epigastralgia, acute (in peptic ulcer, acute and chronic gastritis, and gastrospasm) Facial pain (including craniomandibular disorders) Headache Hypertension, essential Hypotension, primary Induction of labour Knee pain Leukopenia Low back pain Malposition of fetus, correction of Morning sickness Nausea and vomiting Neck pain Pain in dentistry (including dental pain and temporomandibular dysfunction) Periarthritis of shoulder Postoperative pain Renal colic Rheumatoid arthritis Sciatica Sprain Stroke Tennis elbow 2. Diseases, symptoms or conditions for which the therapeutic effect of 
acupuncture has been shown but for which further proof is needed : Abdominal pain (in acute gastroenteritis or due to gastrointestinal spasm) Acne vulgaris Alcohol dependence and detoxification Bell’s palsy Bronchial asthma Cancer pain Cardiac neurosis Cholecystitis, chronic, with acute exacerbation Cholelithiasis Competition stress syndrome Craniocerebral injury, closed Diabetes mellitus, non-insulin-dependent Earache Epidemic haemorrhagic fever Epistaxis, simple (without generalized or local disease) Eye pain due to subconjunctival injection Female infertility Facial spasm Female urethral syndrome Fibromyalgia and fasciitis Gastrokinetic disturbance Gouty arthritis Hepatitis B virus carrier status Herpes zoster (human (alpha) herpesvirus 3) Hyperlipaemia Hypo-ovarianism Insomnia Labour pain Lactation, deficiency Male sexual dysfunction, non-organic Ménière disease Neuralgia, post-herpetic Neurodermatitis Obesity Opium, cocaine and heroin dependence Osteoarthritis Pain due to endoscopic examination Pain in thromboangiitis obliterans Polycystic ovary syndrome (Stein–Leventhal syndrome) Postextubation in children Postoperative convalescence Premenstrual syndrome Prostatitis, chronic Pruritus Radicular and pseudoradicular pain syndrome Raynaud syndrome, primary Recurrent lower urinary-tract infection Reflex sympathetic dystrophy Retention of urine, traumatic Schizophrenia Sialism, drug-induced Sjögren syndrome Sore throat (including tonsillitis) Spine pain, acute Stiff neck Temporomandibular joint  dysfunction Tietze syndrome Tobacco dependence Ulcerative colitis, chronic Urolithiasis Vascular dementia Whooping cough (pertussis) 3. Diseases, symptoms or conditions for which there are only individual 
controlled trials reporting some therapeutic effects, but for which 
acupuncture is worth trying because treatment by conventional and other 
therapies is difficult : Chloasma Choroidopathy, central serous Colour blindness Deafness Hypophrenia Irritable colon syndrome Neuropathic bladder in spinal cord injury Pulmonary heart disease, chronic Small airway obstruction 4. Diseases, symptoms or conditions for which acupuncture may be tried 
provided the practitioner has special modern medical knowledge and adequate 
monitoring equipment : Breathlessness in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Coma Convulsions in infants Coronary heart disease (angina pectoris) Diarrhoea in infants and young children Encephalitis, viral, in children, late stage Paralysis, progressive bulbar and pseudobulbar Return to top of Page Review of clinical Acupuncture trial reports Pain The effectiveness of acupuncture analgesia has already been established in controlled clinical studies. As mentioned previously, acupuncture analgesia works better than a placebo for most kinds of pain, and its effective rate in the treatment of chronic pain is comparable with that of morphine. In addition, numerous laboratory studies have provided further evidence of the efficacy of acupuncture's analgesic action as well as an explanation of the mechanism involved. In fact, the excellent analgesic effects of acupuncture have stimulated research on pain. Because of the side-effects of long-term drug therapy for pain and the risks of dependence, acupuncture analgesia can be regarded as the method of choice for treating many chronically painful conditions. The analgesic effect of acupuncture has also been reported for the relief of eye pain due to subconjunctival injection ( 14 ), local pain after extubation in children ( 15 ), and pain in thromboangiitis obliterans ( 16 ). Head and face The use of acupuncture for treating chronic pain of the head and face has been studied extensively. For tension headache, migraine and other kinds of headache due to a variety of causes, acupuncture has performed favourably in trials comparing it with standard therapy, sham acupuncture, or mock transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) ( 17-27 ). The results suggest that acupuncture could play a significant role in treating such conditions. Chronic facial pain, including craniomandibular disorders of muscular origin, also responds well to acupuncture treatments ( 28-31 ). The effect of acupuncture is comparable with that of stomatognathic treatments for temporomandibular joint pain and dysfunction. Acupuncture may be useful as complementary therapy for this condition, as the two treatments probably have a different basis of action ( 2 , 32 ). Locomotor system Chronically painful conditions of the locomotor system accompanied by restricted movements of the joints are often treated with acupuncture if surgical intervention is not necessary. Acupuncture not only alleviates pain, it also reduces muscle spasm, thereby increasing mobility. Joint damage often results from muscle malfunction, and many patients complain of arthralgia before any changes are demonstrable by X-ray. In these cases, acupuncture may bring about a permanent cure. Controlled studies on common diseases and conditions in this category have been reported by different authors, with favourable results for acupuncture treatments compared with standard therapy, delayed-treatment controls, control needling, mock TENS, or other sham acupuncture techniques. The conditions concerned include cervical spondylitis or neck pain due to other causes ( 33-37 ), periarthritis of the shoulder ( 38-39 ) fibromyalgia ( 40 ), fasciitis ( 41 ), epicondylitis (tennis elbow) ( 42-44 ), low back pain ( 45-49 ), sciatica ( 50-53 ), osteoarthritis with knee pain ( 54-56 ), and radicular and pseudoradicular pain syndromes ( 57 ). In some reports, comparison was made between standard care and acupuncture as an adjunct to standard care. The conclusion from one such randomized controlled trial was that acupuncture is an effective and judicious 
adjunct to conventional care for patients with osteoarthritis of the knee ( 58 ). Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic disease with extra-articular manifestations in most patients. In this disease, dysfunction of the immune system plays a major role, which explains the extra-articular and articular features. Acupuncture is beneficial in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ( 4-6 ). While acupuncture may not improve the damage that has been done to the joints, successful pain relief has been verified in the majority of controlled studies ( 58 ). The action of acupuncture on inflammation and the dysfunctional immune system is also beneficial ( 5 , 59 ). Gout In a randomized controlled trial, blood-pricking acupuncture was compared with conventional medication (allopurinol). The acupuncture group showed greater improvement than the allopurinol group. In addition, a similar reduction of uric acid levels in the blood and urine of both groups was noted ( 60 ). Plum-blossom needling (acupuncture using plum-blossom needles), together with cupping (the application to the skin of cups which are then depressurized), has been recommended for treating gouty arthritis ( 61 ). Biliary and renal colic Acupuncture is suitable for treating acute pain, provided the relief of pain will not mask the correct diagnosis, for which other treatments may be needed. Biliary and renal colic are two conditions for which acupuncture can be used not only as an analgesic but also as an antispasmodic. In controlled studies on biliary colic ( 62-64 ) and renal colic ( 7 , 65-66 ), acupuncture appears to have advantages over conventional drug treatments (such as intramuscular injection of atropine, pethidine, anisodamine (a Chinese medicine structurally related to atropine, isolated from Anisodus tanguticus), bucinnazine (also known as bucinperazine) or a metamizole-camylofin combination). It provides a better analgesic effect in a shorter time, without side-effects. In addition, acupuncture is effective for relieving abdominal colic, whether it occurs in acute gastroenteritis or is due to gastrointestinal spasm ( 67 ). Traumatic or postoperative pain For traumas such as sprains, acupuncture is not only useful for relieving pain without the risk of drug dependence, but may also hasten recovery by improving local circulation ( 68-70 ). Acupuncture analgesia to relieve postoperative pain is well recognized and has been confirmed in controlled studies ( 71-76 ). The first successful operation under acupuncture analgesia was a tonsillectomy. This was, in fact, inspired by the success of acupuncture in relieving post-tonsillectomy pain. Post-tonsillectomy acupuncture was re-evaluated in a controlled study in 1990, which not only showed prompt alleviation of throat pain, but also reduction in salivation and promotion of healing in the operative wound ( 76 ). Dentistry Acupuncture has been widely used in dentistry. There are reports of randomized controlled trials on the analgesic effect of acupuncture for postoperative pain from various dental procedures, including tooth extraction ( 77- 78 ), pulp devitalization ( 79 ), and acute apical periodontitis ( 80 ). According to a systematic review of papers on the use of acupuncture in dentistry published between 1966 and 1996, 11 out of 15 randomized controlled studies with blind controls, appropriate statistics and sufficient follow-up showed standard acupuncture to be more effective than a placebo or sham acupuncture. It was therefore concluded that acupuncture should be considered a reasonable alternative or supplement to current dental practice as an analgesic (81). Its use in the treatment of temporomandibular dysfunction was also supported in these studies. Childbirth In childbirth, acupuncture analgesia is useful for relieving labour pain and can significantly reduce the duration of labour ( 82 ). In the case of weakened uterine contractions, acupuncture increases the activity of the uterus. Episiotomy and subsequent suturing of the perineum can also be carried out with acupuncture analgesia. In addition, the avoidance of narcotics is advantageous for newborn infants. Surgery Acupuncture analgesia has the following advantages in surgical operations. It is a very safe procedure compared with drug anaesthesia; no death has ever been reported from acupuncture analgesia. There is no adverse effect on physiological functions, whereas general anaesthesia often interferes with respiration and blood pressure, for example. There are fewer of the postoperative complications that sometimes occur after general anaesthesia, such as nausea, urinary retention, constipation, and respiratory infections. The patient remains conscious and able to talk with the medical team during the operation so that injury of the facial and recurrent laryngeal nerve can be avoided. However, remaining conscious may be a disadvantage if the patient cannot tolerate the emotional stress of the procedure. While the benefits of acupuncture analgesia are many, the disadvantages must also be considered. The use of acupuncture is more time-consuming and in many cases may fail to bring about complete analgesia. It is often not suitable for abdominal surgery because suppression of visceral pain and muscle relaxation may be inadequate. It is not suitable in children because few children will tolerate the needling and keep still during major surgery. Also, the surgeon must be quick and deft, so that the operation can be finished before the patient develops tolerance to the needling. In conclusion, acupuncture analgesia as an anaesthetic for surgical procedures is indicated in selected patients who show a good response to needling in the preoperative trial, particularly when they may be a poor surgical risk under conventional general anaesthesia. The use of adjuvant drugs to potentiate the effect of the acupuncture treatment is preferred. Acupuncture can also be used in combination with general anaesthesia to reduce the dosage of anaesthetic agents ( 83 ). Return to top of Page Infections Acupuncture has been reported to be effective for treating acute bacillary dysentery ( 8-10 ). Its effect is comparable with that of conventional medicines such as furazolidone, but the use of acupuncture in the first line of defence against this disease is not practicable-daily performance of needling procedures is much more complicated than administering oral drug therapy. However, when no antidysenteric agent is available or the patient is allergic to antidysenteric agents, acupuncture may occasionally be used. The results of research on the effects of acupuncture treatments that stimulate the immune system suggest that acupuncture may be of use in conjunction with other medical therapies for treating infections ( 84 ). The effect of acupuncture on the immune system has been tested in hepatitis B virus carriers. In a comparative study, acupuncture-moxibustion is apparently superior to herbal medications in producing hepatitis B e core antibodies and reducing hepatitis B surface antigen ( 85 ). For epidemic haemorrhagic fever, compared with steroid and supportive treatments, moxibustion shortened the period of oliguria and promoted the reduction of kidney swelling ( 86 ). Acupuncture may be useful in treating pertussis (whooping cough), by relieving cough as well as promoting a cure ( 87 ). Return to top of Page Neurological disorders In the neurological field, headaches, migraines and neuralgia are the common painful conditions treated with acupuncture. Strokes and their sequelae are another major indication for acupuncture. Early treatment of paresis after stroke has proved highly effective. Because improvement in the effects of stroke also occurs naturally, there has been some doubt about the contribution of acupuncture. In recent years, however, a number of controlled clinical evaluations have been undertaken in stroke patients. For example, in randomized controlled studies, acupuncture treatment of hemiplegia due to cerebral infarction gave better results than conventional medication ( 88-93 ) and physiotherapy ( 94 , 95 ). There were also beneficial effects when acupuncture was used as a complement to rehabilitation ( 96-98 ). In one study, patients with ischaemic cerebrovascular disease treated with acupuncture were compared with patients treated with conventional drugs. Nerve function, as evaluated by electroencephalographic map and somatosensory evoked potential, showed a much more marked improvement in the patients treated with acupuncture ( 89 ). This has been further confirmed by experimental studies. In the laboratory, a rat model of reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion was used. The somatosensory evoked potential recorded before and after the occlusion showed that electric acupuncture markedly promoted the recovery of the amplitude of the P1-N1 wave (to 58.6% in the electric acupuncture group in contrast to 25.5% in the control group after 7 days) ( 93 ). In addition, recent clinical studies suggest that the effectiveness of acupuncture therapy can be further promoted by using temporal acupuncture ( 99 , 100 ). Comparative studies have shown acupuncture treatments to be as effective for treating hemiplegia due to cerebral haemorrhage as for that due to cerebral infarction. Since early treatment with physiotherapy is unsatisfactory, it is advisable to use acupuncture as the primary treatment. Even in hemiplegia of long duration, remarkable improvements can often be achieved. Hemiplegia due to other causes, such as brain surgery, can also be improved by acupuncture ( 101 ). Aphasia caused by acute cerebrovascular disorders can also be treated with acupuncture ( 102 ). Although acupuncture is effective for many painful conditions, there are only a few reports on post-herpetic neuralgia. Two of them were based on randomized clinical trials and provided completely opposite results ( 103 , 104 ). Evaluation of acupuncture in the treatment of this painful condition therefore awaits further study. Peripheral nervous disorders are often treated with acupuncture. For example, good effects for Bell's palsy have been reported in randomized controlled trials ( 105 , 106 ). Facial spasm is another peripheral nervous disorder for which acupuncture treatment may be indicated. For this condition it has been shown that wrist-ankle acupuncture is significantly better than traditional body acupuncture ( 107 ). Coma is a serious condition that can hardly be cured by acupuncture alone, but in a comparative study of two groups of patients with similar levels of coma, a significantly greater number of patients in the acupuncture group had a 50% or greater neurological recovery than those in the control group. This suggests that it is reasonable to incorporate acupuncture along with other therapeutic and supportive measures in the treatment of the comatose patient ( 108 ). Insomnia can also be treated successfully with acupuncture. In randomized control trials, both auricular acupressure and auricular acupuncture had a hypnotic effect ( 109 , 110 ). Return to top of Page Respiratory disorders Acupuncture is often used in treating respiratory disorders. Allergic rhinitis is one of the major indications. In controlled studies, it has been shown that acupuncture is more effective than antihistamine drugs in the treatment of allergic rhinitis ( 111-115 ). Acupuncture's lack of side-effects is a distinct advantage in treating this condition; however, its protective effect against allergen-provoked rhinitis has not been verified ( 116 ). The acute symptoms of tonsillitis can be effectively relieved with acupuncture ( 117 ). Since there is no information about the incidence of complications secondary to tonsillitis treated with acupuncture, in clinical practice antibiotic therapy should still be considered the treatment of choice for acute tonsillitis. For sore throats from other causes, acupuncture treatment provides definite benefits, in contrast to a placebo and acupuncture refusal ( 118 ). Although there are conflicting results from controlled trials in treating bronchial asthma with acupuncture, the majority of the reports suggest that acupuncture is effective ( 119-123 ) and that the effect is related to the points used ( 122 ). While bronchial asthma is not cured by acupuncture, it may be substantially relieved, at least for short periods of time. The success rates quoted in the literature are 60-70%. Acupuncture has a limited role in treating acute asthmatic attacks since it is a weak bronchodilator, but it may serve as a prophylactic measure over the long term. Controlled trials have shown that acupuncture brings about modest improvement in objective parameters, with significant subjective improvement ( 124 ). Prospective randomized single-blind studies of the effects of real and sham acupuncture on exercise-induced and metacholine-induced asthma revealed that real acupuncture provided better protection than did sham acupuncture ( 119 ), but it failed to modulate the bronchial hyperreactivity to histamine ( 125 ). Corticosteroid-dependent bronchial asthma may respond better to acupuncture treatment than other types: the required dosage of corticosteroids gradually decreases during the first weeks of acupuncture treatment ( 126 ). Acupuncture may also provide symptomatic improvement in the late stages of bronchial asthma, where there are complications of disabling breathlessness due to impaired lung function ( 127 ). Return to top of Page Digestive disorders Epigastric pain is a common symptom in diseases of the stomach, including peptic ulcer, acute and chronic gastritis, and gastric spasm. Acupuncture provides satisfactory relief of epigastric pain-significantly better than injections of anisodamine or morphine plus atropine, as shown in randomized controlled trials ( 128, 129 ). For gastrointestinal spasm, acupuncture is also superior to injections of atropine ( 130 ), and for gastrokinetic disturbances, the effectiveness of acupuncture is comparable with that of conventional medicine (domperidone) ( 131 ). Another common symptom of digestive disorders is nausea and vomiting. This can be due to a disordered function of the stomach, but it is more often a symptom or sign of generalized disorders. Morning sickness, postoperative vomiting, and nausea and vomiting related to chemotherapy are frequently encountered clinically. In all these conditions, acupuncture at point nèiguan (PC6) seems to have a specific antiemetic effect. A recent systematic review of trials using acupuncture for antiemesis showed that 11 of 12 randomized placebo-controlled trials, involving nearly 2000 patients, supported this effect. The reviewed papers showed consistent results across different investigators, different groups of patients, and different forms of acupuncture stimulation ( 132 ). Irritable colon syndrome and chronic ulcerative colitis are often difficult to treat with conventional medication. For these diseases, acupuncture may serve as a complementary or alternative therapeutic measure ( 133, 134 ). Because of its analgesic effect, acupuncture can be used in endoscopic examinations, e.g. in colonoscopy. It has been reported that the effect of acupuncture to relieve pain and discomfort during the examination is comparable with that of scopolamine or pethidine with fewer side-effects ( 135, 136 ). There has been extensive research on the effect of acupuncture on the digestive system, with extensive data showing its influence on the physiology of the gastrointestinal tract, including acid secretion, motility, neurohormonal changes and changes in sensory thresholds. Many of the neuroanatomic pathways of these effects have been identified in animal models ( 137 ). Acupuncture shows good analgesic and antispasmodic effects on the biliary tract and, as indicated previously, can be recommended for treatment of biliary colic ( 62-64 ). It also has a cholagogic action, which has been demonstrated in experimental studies. In the treatment of biliary colic due to gallstones, acupuncture is not only effective for relieving the colicky pain, but is also useful for expelling the stones. Satisfactory results were reported when electric acupuncture was used in combination with oral administration of magnesium sulfate (138). Acupuncture treatment is also worth trying for chronic cholecystitis, even if there is acute exacerbation ( 139 ). Return to top of Page Blood disorders Among various blood disorders, leukopenia is the most suitable for acupuncture treatment. In controlled studies, acupuncture has been shown to be more effective than batilol and/or cysteine phenylacetate in the treatment of leukopenia due to chemotherapy ( 140-142 ) or benzene intoxication ( 143, 144 ). Return to top of Page Urogenital disorders Urinary retention due to functional disorders, with no organic obstruction, is often treated with acupuncture. For postpartum or postoperative urinary retention, successful micturition usually occurs immediately after one session of needling ( 66 , 145 ). It is probably for this reason that controlled studies on this subject have been neglected. However, there has been a report of a randomized controlled trial on traumatic retention of urine, a condition more complicated than postpartum or postoperative retention. In this trial, the efficacy of acupuncture was remarkably superior to that of intramuscular injection of neostigmine bromide( 146 ). Acupuncture is not only useful for relieving renal colic, but also for expelling urinary stones (if they are not too large), because it dilates the ureter. Satisfactory results have been obtained in comparisons with conventional medication (7), but it is better to use acupuncture as a complementary measure in conjunction with medication or lithotripsy. Sexual disorders are often treated with acupuncture, but conclusive results based on methodologically sound clinical studies are still lacking. Acupuncture was shown to be more effective than placebo in the treatment of non-organic male sexual dysfunction, but the improvement was not statistically significant ( 147 ). In another randomized controlled trial, acupuncture had a better effect than the control in the treatment of defective ejaculation (no ejaculation during intercourse) ( 148 ). Acupuncture may also be helpful to patients with chronic prostatitis. As shown in a randomized controlled trial, acupuncture was superior to oral sulfamethoxazole in relieving symptoms and improving sexual function ( 149 ). In women, it has been shown that acupuncture can lower urethral pressure and relieve urethral syndrome ( 150, 151 ). Acupuncture has also been successfully used as a prophylaxis against recurrent lower urinary tract infections ( 152 ). Return to top of Page Gynecological and obstetric disorders Primary dysmenorrhoea, a painful condition, is one of the major indications for acupuncture in the field of gynaecological disorders. The beneficial effect of acupuncture on this condition has been repeatedly reported in controlled trials ( 153, 154 ). Acupuncture relieves pain and also regulates the motility of the uterus to facilitate menstrual discharge and further alleviate the pain. Premenstrual syndrome is characterized by cyclical mood changes and is a common condition in women of fertile age. Acupuncture seems to be helpful to patients with this syndrome. In a controlled study, the majority of the patients receiving acupuncture gained relief from symptoms and no recurrence in the six-month follow-up ( 155 ). Although acupuncture was reported to be effective in the treatment of female anovular infertility (156), no methodologically sound, controlled trials have been reported. However, the mechanism of acupuncture in regulating abnormal function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis has been demonstrated in experimental studies. The data suggest that electric acupuncture with relative specificity of acupuncture points could influence some genetic expression in the brain, thereby normalizing the secretion of certain hormones, such as gonadotropin-releasing hormone, luteinizing hormone and estradiol ( 157 ). Acupuncture is also worth trying in the treatment of female infertility due to inflammatory obstruction of the fallopian tubes, where it seems to be superior to conventional therapy with intrauterine injection of gentamicin, chymotrypsin and dexamethasone ( 158 ). Acupuncture in pregnant women should be undertaken with care. Needling at some points (namely, on the abdomen and lumbosacral region), as well as strong stimulation of certain distant points, such as hégu (LI4), sanyinjiao (SP6) and zhìyin (BL67), may cause miscarriage. However, this action is useful if induction of labour is desired, such as in prolonged pregnancy; the effect is comparable with that of oxytocin by intravenous drip ( 159-161 ). In early pregnancy, acupuncture at the upper limb points can be used for the prevention and treatment of morning sickness. The efficacy of acupressure at nèiguan (PC6) has been reported repeatedly in placebo-controlled studies ( 13 , 162, 163 ). In order to prevent miscarriage induced by needling, acupressure is recommended for the treatment of morning sickness. Various methods of acupuncture, such as pressure at ear points and moxibustion at zhìyin (BL67) or zúlínqí (GB41), have been used to correct abnormal fetal position during the last three months of pregnancy. The success rates in groups treated with these methods were much higher than the occurrence of spontaneous version or in groups treated with knee-chest position or moxibustion at non-classical points ( 164-167 ). Acupuncture stimulates milk secretion after childbirth and can be used to treat deficient lactation due to mental lability or depression. It has been observed that acupuncture elevates the blood prolactin level in women with deficient milk secretion after childbirth; in the majority of cases, lactation starts as the blood prolactin level increases ( 168 ). The clinical use of acupuncture to promote lactation has also been demonstrated in a randomized controlled study ( 169 ). Return to top of Page Cardiovascular disorders Acupuncture is suitable for treating primary hypotension ( 170, 171 ) and early essential hypertension ( 172-176 ). It has been reported that the influence of acupuncture on hypertension might be related to its regulatory effect on the level of serum nitrogen monoxide ( 177 ). For primary hypotension, acupuncture seems to be more effective than general tonics. For mild and moderate essential hypertension, the hypotensive effect of acupuncture is much more potent than that of placebos and is comparable with that of certain conventional hypotensive agents. In addition, acupuncture is often effective for relieving subjective symptoms, and it has no side-effects. Encouraging results have been reported for a number of controlled studies on the treatment of heart disease with acupuncture, particularly in psychosomatic heart disorders, such as cardiac neurosis ( 178 ). In coronary heart disease, acupuncture has been shown by various authors to be effective in relieving angina pectoris. Its beneficial influence has been demonstrated during coronary arteriography. Cardiological, neurophysiological and psychological observations, made in mutually independent studies, indicated that acupuncture improved the working capacity of the heart in patients with angina pectoris and activated autoregulatory cardiovascular mechanisms in healthy persons ( 179 ). In controlled studies, acupuncture has provided significantly greater improvement in symptoms and cardiac work capacity than either placebo ( 180-182 ) or conventional medication, such as glyceryl trinitrate ( 183, 184 ). Dilation of the coronary artery during acupuncture has been shown to be comparable with that observed during intracatheter injection of isosorbide dinitrate ( 185 ). In addition, acupuncture has a beneficial effect on the left ventricular function of patients with coronary heart disease, and is also more effective than nifedipine and isosorbide dinitrate ( 186 ). Nèiguan (PC6) is the point most commonly used for treating cardiac disorders. The beneficial effect of acupuncture at this point has been demonstrated by serial equilibrium radionuclide angiography ( 187 ). Acupuncture also produces haemorrheological improvement ( 188 ). In order to avoid unexpected accidents, however, special attention should be paid to the treatment of heart disease. Acupuncturists must be able to differentiate between angina pectoris and acute myocardial infarction. Return to top of Page Psychiatric disorders and mental disturbances Acupuncture is being increasingly used in psychiatric disorders. The effect of acupuncture on depression (including depressive neurosis and depression following stroke) has been documented repeatedly in controlled studies ( 189-194 ). Acupuncture is comparable with amitriptyline in the treatment of depression but has fewer side-effects. In addition, acupuncture has been found to be more effective in depressive patients with decreased excretion of 3-methyl-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol (the principal metabolite of the central neurotransmitter norepinephrine), while amitriptyline is more effective for those with inhibition in the dexamethasone suppression test ( 192 ). This suggests that these two therapies work through different mechanisms. There have also been reports that, in controlled trials of schizophrenia treatment, acupuncture might have a better effect than chlorpromazine ( 194, 195 ). Acupuncture (auricular acupressure) is much more effective than psychotherapy in the treatment of competition stress syndrome, and is worth further study ( 196 ). The possible use of auricular acupuncture as a treatment for opium dependence was first noted in 1973 ( 197 ). It was found that some of the patients whose postoperative pain was relieved by acupuncture were hiding a dependence on opium. In 1979, a study carried out jointly in Hong Kong and London showed that endorphin concentrations were raised by acupuncture in heroin-dependent persons, resulting in successful suppression of withdrawal symptoms. Since then, acupuncture has been used to treat dependence on a variety of substances. Many substance-abuse programmes use acupuncture as an adjunct to conventional treatment (1 98 ). Most of the reports are anecdotal, and while there have been several controlled trials ( 199-202 ), the findings have not been consistent. This entire field of research is still at an early stage, holding some promise, but requiring larger-scale and more demanding research studies ( 198 ). Acupuncture treatment has also been used in patients who wish to give up smoking. The conclusions of different researchers are conflicting, however. Some favour acupuncture, while others dismiss its value ( 203-207 ). Probably the most convincing results are from randomized controlled trials of passive abstinence, with no suggestion or motivation to stop smoking. The patients were told they would receive acupuncture for other purposes, and they were not asked to stop smoking. A comparison of the effects of auricular acupuncture and body acupuncture was made: 70% of the auricular-acupuncture patients and 11% of those receiving body acupuncture either abstained totally from smoking or reduced the amount of consumption by half. In addition, 72% of the auricular-acupuncture patients experienced disgust at the taste of tobacco ( 204 ). However, in contrast, a meta-analysis of seven reports carefully selected from 16 controlled studies of smoking cessation indicated that acupuncture did not have any greater effect than the placebo ( 208 ). Acupuncture has also been reported to be useful for treating alcohol recidivism. In placebo-controlled trials (with acupuncture at nonspecific points as the control), the patients in the treatment group expressed less need for alcohol than did the control patients. Patients in the treatment group also had fewer drinking episodes and admissions to a detoxification centre ( 209-211 ). It is interesting to note that in an experimental study on healthy volunteers, acupuncture diminished clinical alcohol intoxication by increasing the alcohol level in expired air and decreasing blood alcohol levels ( 212 ). Return to top of Page Pediatric disorders Diarrhea in infants and young children is still a daunting problem worldwide, particularly in developing countries. Acupuncture seems to be worth using, at least as an adjunct to conventional treatments, because it regulates intestinal function and enhances immune response without causing an imbalance in the intestinal flora as do antibiotics ( 213, 214 ). Convulsions due to high fever are not infrequently encountered in infants and young children. In a controlled clinical trial, convulsions stopped two minutes after needling was started, a result superior to that of intramuscular phenobarbital injection ( 215 ). Although the specific treatment for pertussis is antimicrobials, the paroxysmal coughing is usually very distressing. There has been a report that acupuncture could hasten the cure as well as relieving the cough ( 87 ). There are two controlled studies indicating that acupuncture may be of some help in the treatment of Tourette syndrome in children ( 216, 217 ). Return to top of Page Disorders of the sense organs Deaf-mute children were once extensively treated with acupuncture in China, but no methodologically sound reports have ever shown that acupuncture therapy had any real effectiveness. A recent randomized controlled clinical trial on sudden-onset deafness in adults favoured acupuncture treatment ( 218 ). Acupuncture might be useful in the treatment of Ménière disease for relieving symptoms and also for reducing the frequency of attacks. It seems to be more effective than conventional drug therapy (betahistine, nicotinic acid and vitamin B6) ( 219 ). Tinnitus is often difficult to treat. Traditionally acupunture has been believed to be effective for treating tinnitus, but only two randomized controlled clinical trials are available-with inconsistent results ( 220, 221 ). Unexplained earache that is neither primary (due to ear disease) nor secondary (as referred pain), is often regarded as a manifestation of psychogenic disturbances. Acupuncture has been shown to be effective in this kind of earache in a placebo-controlled trial ( 222 ). Acupuncture might be helpful in the treatment of simple epistaxis unassociated with generalized or local disease, but only one report of a randomized controlled clinical trial is available. This report indicates that auricular acupuncture provides a more satisfactory effect than conventional haemostatic medication ( 223 ). Return to top of Page Skin diseases In some countries, many skin diseases are customarily treated with acupuncture, but very few controlled studies have been published. In a randomized controlled clinical trial on chloasma, acupuncture had a significantly better effect than vitamins C and E ( 224 ). Some evidence favouring acupuncture treatment of herpes zoster (human (alpha) herpesvirus 3) has been reported. In a randomized controlled trial, laser acupuncture relieved pain and promoted formation of scar tissue much more quickly than treatment with polyinosinic acid ( 225 ). Acupuncture is known to have an antipruritic effect. This has been shown experimentally in volunteers, suggesting that acupuncture could be used in clinical conditions associated with pruritus ( 226 ). Acupuncture with dermal needles (seven-star or plum-blossom needles) has traditionally been used in the treatment of neurodermatitis, but confirmation of its effect in a controlled clinical trial was only recently reported ( 227 ). For the treatment of acne vulgaris, acupuncture, particularly ear acupuncture, is worth recommending if the reported therapeutic effects can be further proved ( 228, 229 ). Return to top of Page Cancers No controlled study has been reported on the efficacy of acupuncture in the treatment of cancer itself. However, acupuncture still has uses in cancer treatments. One is to relieve cancer pain, and the other is to control the adverse reactions to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. For cancer pain, it has been reported that acupuncture provided an immediate analgesic effect similar to that of codeine and pethidine, with a more marked effect after use for two months ( 230 ). The effect was comparable with that achieved using the analgesic steps recommended by WHO (231). For radiotherapy and chemotherapy, acupuncture can greatly lessen the adverse reactions in the digestive and nervous systems, as well as providing protection against damage to haematopoiesis ( 232-237 ). Return to top of Page Other reports Obesity and hyperlipaemia are becoming increasingly important medical issues. If acupuncture could help in reducing body weight and blood lipids, its clinical use could be greatly expanded. Quite a number of reports on this effect have been published, but unfortunately, almost none of them is methodologically sound. There are only two preliminary reports of randomized controlled clinical trials that can be cited here ( 238, 239 ), although criticism of the study design cannot be totally avoided. Acupuncture may be of benefit to patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Its efficacy has been shown to be superior to that of placebos and comparable with that of tolbutamide ( 240, 241 ). Anisodamine is effective in treating excessive salivation induced by drugs (usually antipsychotics), but acupuncture seems to be more effective ( 242 ). There are also reports on the treatment of Sjögren syndrome (sicca syndrome) ( 243 ), Raynaud syndrome ( 244 ), Stein-Leventhal syndrome (polycystic ovary syndrome) ( 244 ), and Tietze syndrome (costochondritis) ( 245 ), which indicate beneficial effects from acupuncture treatment. Since these reports have appeared only in individual papers, confirmation by further study is necessary. Return to top of Page References 1.	Lewith GT et al. On the evaluation of the clinical effect of acupuncture. Pain, 1983, 16:111-127. 2.	Pomeranz B. Acupuncture analgesia for chronic pain: brief survey of clinical trials. In: Pomeranz B, Stux G, eds. Scientific bases of acupuncture. Berlin/Heidelberg, Springer-Verlag, 1989: 197-199. 3.	Richardson PH et al. Acupuncture for the treatment of pain-a review of evaluation research. Pain, 1986, 24:15-40. 4.	Man SC et al. Preliminary clinical study of acupuncture in rheumatoid arthritis. Journal of Rheumatology, 1974, 1:126-129. 5.	Ruchkin IN et al. [Auriculo-electropuncture in rheumatoid arthritis (a double-blind study).] Terapevticheskii Arkhiv, 1987, 59(12):26-30 [in Russian]. 6.	Sun LQ et al. [Observation of the effect of acupuncture and moxibustion on rheumatoid arthritis in 434 cases.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(1):9-11 [in Chinese]. 7.	Zhang WR et al. [Clinical observation of acupuncture in treating kidney and ureter stones.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(3):5-6 [in Chinese]. 8.	Li KR. [Analysis on the effect of acupuncture treatment in 1383 adults with bacillary dysentery.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1990, 10(4):113-114 [in Chinese]. 9.	Qiu ML et al. [A clinical study on acupuncture treatment of acute bacillary dysentery.] In: Zhang XT, ed. [Researches on acupuncture-moxibustion and acupuncture-anaesthesia.] Beijing, Science Press, 1986: 567-572 [in Chinese]. 10.	Yu SZ et al. Clinical observation of 162 cases of acute bacillary dysentery treated by acupuncture. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1992, 2(3):13-14. 11.	Zhang XP. [Researches on the mechanism of acupuncture and moxibustion.] Anhui, Anhui Science and Technology Press, 1983 [in Chinese.] 12.	Stux G, Pomeranz B. Acupuncture-textbook and atlas. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1987: 18-19. 13.	Lewith GT et al. On the evaluation of the clinical effects of acupuncture: a problem reassessed and a framework for future research. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 1996, 2(1):79-90. 14.	Shen SJ. [Immediate analgesic effect of acupuncture at binao (LI 14) for pain due to subconjunctival injection.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(2):71-72 [in Chinese]. 15.	Lee CK et al. The effect of acupuncture on the incidence of postextubation laryngospasm in children. Anaesthesia, 1998, 53(9):917-920. 16.	Qiu L. [Acupuncture treatment of severe leg pain in 60 cases of thromboangitis obliterans.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(11):677-678 [in Chinese]. 17.	Ahonen E et al. Acupuncture and physiotherapy in the treatment of myogenic headache patients: pain relief and EMG activity. Advances in Pain Research and Therapy, 1983, 5:571-576. 18.	Chen XS et al. [Observation of penetrating acupuncture treatment of migraine in 45 cases.] Shanxi Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1997, 13(6):32-33 [in Chinese]. 19.	Doerr-Proske H et al. [A muscle and vascular oriented relaxation program for the treatment of chronic migraine patients. A randomized clinical control groups study on the effectiveness of a biobehavioural treatment program]. Zeitschrift für Psychosomatische Medizin und Psychoanalyse, 1985, 31(3):247-266 [in German]. 20.	Dowson DI et al. The effects of acupuncture versus placebo in the treatment of headache. Pain, 1985, 21:35-42. 21.	Kubiena G et al. Akupunktur bei Migräne. [Acupuncture treatment of migraine.] Deutsche Zeitschrift für Akunpunktur, 1992, 35(6):140-148 [in German]. 22.	Liu AS et al. ["Three Scalp Needles" in the treatment of migraine.] New Tradiitional Chinese  Medicine, 1997, 29(4) 25-26 [in Chinese]. 23.	Loh L et al. Acupuncture versus medical treatment for migraine and muscle tension headaches. Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry, 1984, 47:333-337. 24.	Tavola T et al. Traditional Chinese acupuncture in the treatment of tension-type headache: a controlled study. Pain, 1992, 48:325-329. 25.	Vincent CA. A controlled trial of the treatment of migraine by acupuncture. Clinical Journal of Pain, 1989, 5:305-312. Return to top of Page 26.	Weinschütz T et al. Zur neuroregulativen Wirkung der Akupunktur bei Kopfschmerzpatienten. [Neuroregulatory action of acupuncture in headache patients.] Deutsche Zeitschrift für Akunpunktur, 1994, 37(5):106-117 [in German]. 27.	Xu Z et al. [Treatment of migraine by qi-manipulating acupuncture.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 12(3):97-100 [in Chinese]. 28.	Cai L. [Observation of therapeutic effects of intractable prosopodynia treated by retaining the filiform needle for long time.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(4):190-191 [in Chinese]. 29.	Hansen PE et al. Acupuncture treatment of chronic facial pain: a controlled crossover trial. Headache, 1983, 23:66-69. 30.	Johansson A et al. Acupuncture for the treatment of facial muscular pain. Acta Odontologica Scandinavica, 1991, 49:153-158. 31.	List T. Acupuncture in the treatment of patients with craniomandibular disorders: comparative, longitudinal and methodological studies. Swedish Dental Journal, 1992, 87(Suppl. 1):1-159. 32.	Pohjola RT et al. Rationale behind acupuncture treatment of temporomandibular joint dysfunction. Akupunktur Theorie und Praxis, 1986, 14(4):263. 33.	Birch S et al. Controlled trial of Japanese acupuncture for chronic myofascial neck pain: assessment of specific and nonspecific effects of treatment. Clinical Journal of Pain, 1998, 14(3):248-255. 34.	David J et al. Chronic neck pain: a comparison of acupuncture treatment and physiotherapy. British Journal of Rheumatology, 1998, 37(10):1118-1132. 35.	Coan R et al. The acupuncture treatment of neck pain: a randomized controlled study. American Journal of Chinese Medicine, 1982, 9:326-332. 36.	Loy TT. Treatment of cervical spondylosis: electro-acupuncture versus physiotherapy. Medical Journal of Australia, 1983, 2:32-34. 37.	Petrie JP et al. A controlled study of acupuncture in neck pain. British Journal of Rheumatology, 1986, 25:271-275. 38.	Kinoshita H. [Effect of specific treatment for periarthritis of shoulder.] Journal of the Japanese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Society, 1973, 22(1):23-28. [in Japanese]. 39.	Shao CJ. [Treatment of 62 cases of periarthritis of shoulder by needling at LI 2.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1994, 14(5):247-248 [in Chinese]. 40.	Deluze C et al. Electroacupuncture in fibromyalgia: result of a controlled trial. British Medical Journal, 1992, 305:1249-1252. 41.	Karen D et al. True acupuncture vs. sham acupuncture and conventional sports medicine therapy for plantar fasciitis pain: a controlled, double blind study. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1991, 2(3):247-253. 42.	Brattberg G. Acupuncture therapy for tennis elbow. Pain, 1983, 16:285-288. 43.	Haker E et al. Acupuncture treatment in epicondylalgia: a comparison study of two acupuncture techniques. Clinical Journal of Pain, 1990, 6:221-226. 44.	Molsberger A et al. The analgesic effect of acupuncture in chronic tennis elbow pain. British Journal of Rheumatology, 1994, 33(12):1162-1165. 45.	Coan R et al. The acupuncture treatment of low back pain: a randomized controlled treatment. American Journal of Chinese Medicine, 1980, 8:181-189. 46.	Gunn CC et al. Dry needling of muscle motor points for chronic low-back pain. Spine, 1980,  5(3):279-291. 47.	Lehmann TR et al. Efficacy of electroacupuncture and TENS in the rehabilitation of chronic low back pain patients. Pain, 1986, 26:277-290. 48.	MacDonald AJR et al. Superficial acupuncture in the relief of chronic low back pain. Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, 1983, 65:44-46. 49.	Mendelson G et al. Acupuncture treatment of low back pain: a double-blind placebo-controlled trial. American Journal of Medicine, 1983, 74:49-55. 50.	Kinoshita H. [Clinical trials on reinforcing and reducing manipulations.] Journal of the Japanese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Society, 1971, 20(3):6-13 [in Japanese]. Return to top of Page 51.	Kinoshita H. [Clinical research in the use of paraneural acupuncture for sciatica.] Journal of the Japanese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Society, 1981, 30(1):4-13 [in Japanese]. 52.	Li HY. [Controlled study of 170 cases of sciatica treated with acupuncture at the lower zhibian point.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1991, 11(5):17-18 [in Chinese]. 53.	Shen GZ. [Treatment of 100 cases of sciatica by applying the long needle.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1987, 7(2):77 [in Chinese]. 54.	Christensen BV et al. Acupuncture treatment of severe knee osteoarthrosis: a long-term study. Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica, 1992, 36:519-25 (also iUgeskrift for Laeger, 1993, 155(49):4007-4011 [in Danish]). 55.	Junnila SYT. Acupuncture superior to piroxicam in the treatment of osteoarthritis. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1982, 10:341-345. 56.	Maruno A. [Comparative analysis of electrical acupuncture therapy for arthrosis of the knee.] Journal of the Japanese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Society, 1976, 25(3):52-54 [in Japanese]. 57.	Kreczi T et al. A comparison of laser acupuncture versus placebo in radicular and pseudoradicular pain syndromes as recorded by subjective responses of patients. Acupunture and Electrotherapy Research, 1986, 11:207-216. 58.	Berman BM et al. A randomized trial of acupuncture as an adjunctive therapy in osteoarthritis of the knee. Rheumatology, 1999, 38(4):346-354. 59.	Xiao J et al. [Analysis of the therapeutic effect on 41 cases of rheumatoid arthritis treated by acupuncture and the influence on interleukin-2.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(6):306-308 [in Chinese]. 60.	Li ZW et al. [Controlled study of gouty arthritis treated with blood-pricking acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 13(4):179-182 [in Chinese]. 61.	Pan HL. [Observation of 39 cases of gout treated with plum-blossom needling plus cupping.] Zhenjiu Linchuang Zazhi, 1997, 13(3):29 [in Chinese]. 62.	Mo TW. [Observation of 70 cases of biliary ascariasis treated by acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1987, 7(5):237-238 [in Chinese]. 63.	Wu XL et al. Observation of acupuncture treatment of biliary colic in 142 cases. Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1992, 8(6):8. 64.	Yang TG et al. [Clinical report of electro-acupuncture analgesia in the treatment of abdominal colics.] Jiangsu Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1990, 11(12):31 [in Chinese]. 65.	Lee YH et al. Acupuncture in the treatment of renal colic. Journal of Urology, 1992, 147:16-18. 66.	Li JX et al. [Observation of the therapeutic effect of acupuncture treatment of renal colic.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 13(2):65-66 [in Chinese]. 67.	Shu X, et al. [Observation of acupuncture treatment of abdominal pain in acute gastroenteritis.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(11):653-654 [in Chinese]. 68.	Jiao Y. Acupuncture analgesia in treating sprain of limbs. Acupuncture Research, 1991, 11(3-4):253-254. 69.	Jin CL. [Clinical observation of 346 cases of acute lumbar sprain treated with hand-acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1991, 11(3):30 [in Chinese]. 70.	Zheng LM. [Hand acupuncture treatment of 100 cases of acute lumbar sprain.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(4):201-202 [in Chinese]. 71.	Chen L et al. The effect of location of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation of postoperative opioid analgesic requirement: acupoint versus nonacupoint stimulation. Anesthesia and Analgesia, 1998, 87(5):1129-1134. 72.	Christensen PA et al. Electroacupuncture and postoperative pain. British Journal of Anaesthesia, 1989, 62:258-262. 73.	Lao L et al. Evaluation of acupuncture for pain control after oral surgery: a placebo-controlled trial. Archives of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, 1999, 125(5):567-572. 74.	Lü D et al. [Observation of the analgesic effect of acupuncture for pain after anal surgery.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1993, 12(2):72 [in Chinese]. Return to top of Page 75.	Tsibuliak VN et al. [Acupuncture analgesia and analgesic transcutaneous electroneurostimulation in the early postoperative period.] Anesteziologiia i Reanimatologiia, 1995, (2):93-97 [in Russian]. 76.	Wang Q et al. [Acupuncture treatment of post-tonsillectomy pain in 33 cases.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1990, 10(4):244-245 [in Chinese]. 77.	Lao LX et al. Efficacy of Chinese acupuncture on postoperative oral surgery pain. Oral Surgery, Oral Medicine, Oral Pathology, Oral Radiology and Endodontics, 1995, 79(4):423-428. 78.	Sung YF et al. Comparison of the effects of acupuncture and codeine on postoperative dental pain. Anesthesia and Analgesia, 1977, 56:473-478. 79.	Zheng J et al. [Prevention and treatment of pain caused by pulp devitalisation with arsenical.] Journal of the Zhejiang College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1990, 14(6):6 [in Chinese]. 80.	Sukandar SD et al. [Analgesic effect of acupuncture in acute periodontitis apicalis.] Cermin Dunia Kedokteran, 1995, (105):5-10 [in Indonesian] 81.	Rosted P. The use of acupuncture in dentistry: a systematic review. Acupuncture-Medicine, 1998, 16(1):43-48. 82.	Zhang YF et al. [Clinical observation of acupuncture painless labour in 150 cases.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(4):182-183 [in Chinese]. 83.	Qian XZ. [Achievements in scientific studies on acupuncture-moxibustion and acupuncture-anaesthesia in China.] In: Zhang XT, ed. [Researches on acupuncture-moxibustion and acupuncture-anaesthesia.] Beijing, Science Press, 1986: 1-13 [in Chinese]. 84.	Xu BQ et al. [Experimental studies on acupuncture treatment of acute bacillary dysentery-the role of humoral immune mechanism.] In: Zhang XT, ed. [Researches on acupuncture-moxibustion and acupuncture-anaesthesia. ]Beijing, Science Press, 1986: 573-578 [in Chinese]. 85.	Wang XY et al. Acupuncture and moxibustion in the treatment of asymptomatic hepatitis B virus carriers by strengthening the body resistance to eliminate pathogenic factors: a clinical experimental study. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1991, 2(2):117-125. 86.	Song XG et al. The effect of moxibustion on the kidney function of the patients with epidemic haemorrhagic fever. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1992, 2(1):17-19. 87.	Yao HH et al. [Clinical study on treatment of pertussis with acupuncture at baxie (EX:E9).] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(11):604 [in Chinese]. 88.	Bai XY et al. [A comparative study of acupuncture and Western medicine in the treatment of stroke]. Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 13(1):1-4 [in Chinese]. 89.	Chen DZ et al. [Evaluation of therapeutic effects of acupuncture in treating ischaemic cerebrovascular disease.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1990, 10(9):526-528 [in Chinese]. 90.	Jiang ZY et al. [Clinical study on needling jiaji (EX-B2) in the treatment of thalamic spontaneous pain induced by stroke.] Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1997, 38(10):599-601 [in Chinese]. 91.	Liao SH. [Treatment of stroke with talon needling at LI10 and ST32.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(8):479-480 [in Chinese]. 92.	Liu YJ et al. Needling scalp points in treating cerebrovascular diseases: a report of 78 cases. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1997, 8(3):231-234. 93.	Si QM et al. Effects of electroacupuncture on acute cerebral infarction. Acupuncture and Electro-Therapeutics Research, 1998, 23(2):117-124. 94.	Hu HH et al. A randomized controlled trial on the treatment for acute partial ischemic stroke with acupuncture. Neuroepidemiology, 1993, 12:106-113. 95.	Johansson K et al. Can sensory stimulation improve the functional outcome in stroke patients? Neurology, 1993, 43:2189-2192. 96.	Gosman-Hedstrom G et al. Effects of acupuncture treatment on daily life activities and quality of life: a controlled, prospective, and randomized study of acute stroke patients. Stroke, 1998, 29(10):2100-2108. 97.	Kjendahl A et al. A one year follow-up study on the effects of acupuncture in the treatment of stroke patients in the subacute stage: a randomized, controlled study. Clinical Rehabilitation, 1997, 11(3):192-200. 98.	Wong AM et al. Clinical trial of electrical acupuncture on hemiplegic stroke patients. American Journal of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 1999, 78(2):117-122. 99.	Jin R et al. [Clinical observation of temporal needling in the treatment of postapoplectic sequelae.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 13(1):11-12. [in Chinese]. 100.	Liang RA. Clinical observation and experimental studies on the treatment of sequelae of stroke by needling temporal points. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1993, 4(1):19-26. Return to top of Page 101.	Xu B. [Effect of acupuncture on the convalescence of meningioma removal.] Zhongguo Zhongyiyao Xinxi Zazhi [News Letters of Chinese Medicine], 1998, 5(3):47 [in Chinese]. 102.	Zhang LH et al. A control study of scalp acupuncture in treating aphasia after acute cerebrovascular disease. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1994, 4(1):20-23. 103.	Lewith GT et al. Acupuncture compared with placebo in post-herpetic pain. Pain, 1983, 17:361-368. 104.	Sukandar SD et al. [Curing effect of acupuncture in post-herpetic neuralgia.] Majalah Kedokteran Indonesia [Journal of the Indonesian Medical Association], 1995, 45(8): 456-461 [in Indonesian]. 105.	Lin L. Through puncture compared with traditional acupuncture in treating facial paralysis. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1997, 8(1):73-75. 106.	You FY et al. [Observation of the effect of picking-out (blood-letting) acupuncture in the treatment of Bell's palsy.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 12(2):74 [in Chinese]. 107.	Liu XR. [Observation of therapeutic effects of 66 cases of facial spasm treated with wrist-ankle acupuncture and body-acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(4):192 [in Chinese]. 108.	Frost EAM. Acupuncture for the comatose patient. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1976, 4(1):45-48. 109.	Luo ZP et al. [Clinical observation of ear-acupressure treatment of insomnia.] Heilongjiang Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1993, (1):45-48 [in Chinese]. 110.	Zhang XF. [Ear acupressure in the treatment of insomnia]. Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 13(6):297-298 [in Chinese]. 111.	Chari P et al. Acupuncture therapy in allergic rhinitis. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1988, 16(2):143-147. 112.	Huang YQ. [Therapeutic effect of acupuncture treatment in 128 cases of hay fever.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1990, 10(6):296-297 [in Chinese]. 113.	Jin R et al. [Clinical observation of 100 cases with allergic rhinitis treated by acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1989, 9(4):185-186 [in Chinese]. 114.	Liu DX. [Acupuncture at biqiu in the treatment of allergic rhinitis.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(6):293 [in Chinese]. 115.	Yu JL et al. [Effect of acupuncture treatment in 230 cases of allergic rhinitis.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1994, 14(5):241-242 [in Chinese]. 116.	Williamson L et al. Hay fever treatment in general practice: a randomised controlled trial comparing standardised Western acupuncture with sham acupuncture. Acupuncture-Medicine, 1996, 14(1):6-10. 117.	Chen RH. [Acupuncture treatment of 220 cases of acute tonsillitis.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1987, 7(3):54 [in Chinese]. 118.	Gunsberger M. Acupuncture in the treatment of sore throat symptomatology. American Journal of Chinese Medicine, 1973, 1:337-340. 119.	Fung KP et al. Attenuation of exercise-induced asthma by acupuncture. Lancet, 1986, 2:1419-1422. 120.	He YZ et al. [Clinical observation of CO2 laser acupuncture in the treatment of bronchial asthma.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1994, 14(1):13-16 [in Chinese]. 121.	Tashkin DP et al. Comparison of real and simulated acupuncture and isoproterenol in methacholine-induced asthma. Annals of Allergy, 1977, 39:379-387. 122.	Xie JP et al. Observation of the specificity of points in electro-acupuncture treatment of asthma. Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(2):84-86 [in Chinese]. 123.	Yu DC et al. Effect of acupuncture on bronchial asthma. Clinical Science and Molecular Medicine, 1976, 51:503-509. 124.	Joshi YM. Acupuncture in bronchial asthma. Journal of the Association of Physicians of India, 1992, 40(5):327-331. 125.	Tandon MA et al. Comparison of real and placebo acupuncture in histamine-induced asthma: a double-blind crossover study. Chest, 1989, 96:102-105. Return to top of Page 126.	Batra YK et al. Acupuncture in corticosteroid-dependent asthmatics. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1986, 14(3):261-264. 127.	Jobst K et al. Controlled trial of acupuncture for disabling breathlessness. Lancet, 1986, 2:1416-1419. 128.	Xu PC et al. Clinical observation of treatment of acute epigastralgia by puncturing liangqiu and weishu acupoints. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1991, 2(2):127-130. 129.	Yu YM. [Therapeutic effect and mechanism of needling ST36 in the treatment of epigastric pain.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 16(3):10-11 [in Chinese]. 130.	Shi XL et al. [Acupuncture treatment of gastrointestinal spasm.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(4):192 [in Chinese]. 131.	Zhang AL et al. Clinical effect of acupuncture in the treatment of gastrokinetic disturbance. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1996, 6(1):3-8. 132.	Vickers AJ. Can acupuncture have specific effects on health? A systematic review of acupuncture antiemesis trials. Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1996, 89(6): 303-311. 133.	Wu HG et al. Preliminary study on therapeutic effects and immunologic mechanisms of herbal-moxibustion treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(2):43-45 [in Chinese]. 134.	Wu HG et al. [Therapeutic effect of herbal partition-moxibustion for chronic diarrhoea and its immunological mechanism.] Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1995, 36(1):25-27 [in Chinese]. 135.	Wang HH et al. A study in the effectiveness of acupuncture analgesia for colonoscopic examination compared with conventional premedication. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1992, 20:217-221. 136.	Wang HH et al. A clinical study on physiological response in electroacupuncture analgesia and meperidine analgesia for colonoscopy. American Journal of Chinese Medicine, 1997, 25(1):13-20. 137.	Diehl DL. Acupuncture for gastrointestinal and hepatobiliary disorders. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 1999, 5(1):27-45. 138.	Zhao SD et al. {Electro-acupuncture and magnesium sulphate in treatment of cholelithiasis-clinical observations on 522 cases and preliminary consideration of features.] Chinese Medical Journal, 1979, 59(12):716 [in Chinese]. 139.	Gong CM et al. [Clinical study on regulatory action of combination of body acupuncture with auricular acupuncture on gallbladder motor function.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(1):1-3 [in Chinese]. 140.	Chen B et al. [Clinical observation of moxibustion treatment of leukopenia caused by chemotherapy.] Guo Yi Lun Tan [Forum of Traditional Chinese Medicine], 1990, 5(6):27-28 [in Chinese]. 141.	Chen HL et al. [Observation of the treatment of chemotherapy-induced leucocytopenia with acupuncture and moxibustion.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1991, 11(6):350-352 [in Chinese]. 142.	Wang X. [Effect of moxibustion in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced leukopenia.] [Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(1):13-14 [in Chinese]. 143.	Yin ZF et al. [Therapeutic effect of acupuncture in the treatment of leucopenia induced by benzene.] Jiangsu Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1990, 11(9)404-405 [in Chinese]. 144.	Yin ZF et al. Clinical approach to treatment of benzene-induced leucopenia with acupuncture. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1992, 2(3):15-18. 145.	He LY et al. [Observation of therapeutic effect on 30 cases of puerperal retention of urine treated by acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1983, 3(5):196 [in Chinese] 146.	Pan XW et al. [Application of acupuncture therapy in traumatic urinary retention.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(11):596-597 [in Chinese]. 147.	Aydin S et al. Acupuncture and hypnotic suggestions in the treatment of non-organic male sexual dysfunction. Scandinavian Journal of Urology and Nephrology, 1997, 31(3):271-274. 148.	Shui HD. [Acupuncture treatment of defective ejaculation.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1986, 6(1):19 [in Chinese]. 149.	Luo YN et al. Clinical research on treatment of chronic prostatitis with acupuncture. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1994, 4(3):7-14. 150.	Wang SY et al. [The effect of acupuncture in lowering the urethral pressure of female urethral syndrome patients.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 16(2):4-6 [in Chinese]. Return to top of Page 151.	Zheng HT et al. [Acupuncture treatment of female urethral syndrome.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(12):719-721 [in Chinese]. 152.	Aune A et al. Acupuncture in the prophylaxis of recurrent lower urinary tract infection in adult women. Scandinavian Journal of Primary Health Care, 1998, 16(1):37-39. 153.	Helms JM. Acupuncture for the management of primary dysmenorrhea. Obstetrics and Gynecology, 1987,  69:51-56. 154.	Shi XL et al. [Acupuncture at SP 6 in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhoea.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1994, 14(5):241-242 [in Chinese]. 155.	Li J et al. [Treatment of 108 cases of premenstrual tension by head-acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(3):245-246 [in Chinese]. 156.	Yu J et al. [Relationship of hand temperature and blood  -endorphin immunoreactive substance with electroacupuncture induction of ovulation.] Acupuncture Research, 1986, 11(2):86-90 [in Chinese]. 157.	Chen BY. Acupuncture normalized dysfunction of hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis. Acupuncture and Electro-Therapeutics Research, 1997, 22:97-108. 158.	Ji P et al. [Clinical study on acupuncture treatment of infertility due to inflammatory obstruction of fallopian tube.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(9):469-470 [in Chinese]. 159.	Lin PC et al. [Observation of the effect of acupuncture and oxytocin intravenous perfusion for expediting labour.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(6):281-283 [in Chinese]. 160.	Ma WZ et al. [Clinical observation of the influence of puncturing different points on the whole stage of labour.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(3):130-131 [in Chinese]. 161.	Yu XZ et al. [Observation of hastening of parturition and induction of labour with acupuncture.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1981, 1(1):12-15 [in Chinese]. 162.	Dundee JW et al. PC 6 acupressure reduces morning sickness. Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1988, 81(8):456-457. 163.	Fan YJ. Observation of the therapeutic effect of moxibustion for treatment of pregnant vomiting. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1995, 5(4):31-33. 164.	Cardini F et al. Moxibustion for correction of breech presentation: a randomized controlled trial. Journal of the American Medical Association, 1998, 280(18):1580-1584. 165.	Li GR et al. [Correction of abnormal foetal position by moxibustion in 74 cases.] Journal of .Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1990, 30(3):11 [in Chinese]. 166.	Li Q. Clinical observation of correcting malposition of fetus by electro-acupuncture. Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1996, 16(4):260-262. 167.	Qin GF et al. [Correction of abnormal foetal position by ear point pressure-a report of 413 cases.] China Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1989, 30(6):350-352 [in Chinese]. 168.	Hu XC et al. [The influence of acupuncture on blood prolactin level in women with deficient lactation.] Shanghai Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1958, (12):557-558 [in Chinese]. 169.	Chandra A et al. [The influences of acupuncture on breast feeding production.] Cermin Dunia Kedokteran, 1995, (105):33-37 [in Indonesian]. 170.	Guo JS. [Clinical observation of 150 cases of primary hypotension treated by vaccaria seeds pressed on ear points.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(6):295-296 [in Chinese]. 171.	Yu L et al. [Treatment of 180 cases of hypotension with G20 needling.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 17(4):8 [in Chinese]. 172.	Dan Y. [Assessment of acupuncture treatment of hypertension by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1998, 18(1):26-27 [in Chinese]. 173.	Iurenev AP et al. [Use of various non-pharmacological methods in the treatment of patients in the early stages of arterial hypertension.] Terapevticheskii Arkhiv, 1988, 60(1):123-126 [in Russian]. 174.	Wu CX et al. Scalp acupuncture in treating hypertension in the elderly. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1997, 8(3):281-284. 175.	Yu P et al. Clinical study on auricular pressure treatment of primary hypertension. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1991, 2(1):37-40. Return to top of Page 176.	Zhou RX et al. [The hypotensive effect of ear acupressure-an analysis of 274 cases.] China Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1990, 30(2):99-100 [in Chinese] 177.	Cai QC et al. [The regulatory effects of acupuncture on blood pressure and serum nitrogen monoxide levels in patients with hypertension.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(1):9-11 [in Chinese]. 178.	Zhou YM. [Observation of the therapeutic effect of 30 cases of cardiac neurosis treated with acupuncture at renying.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1992, 12(2):30-32 [in Chinese]. 179.	Ballegaard S. Acupuncture and the cardiovascular system: a scientific challenge. Acupuncture-Medicine, 1998, 16(1):2-9. 180.	Ballegaard S et al. Acupuncture in severe, stable angina pectoris: a randomized trial. Acta Medica Scandinavica, 1986, 220(4):307-313. 181.	Ballegaard S et al. Effects of acupuncture in moderate, stable angina pectoris: a controlled study. Journal of Internal Medicine, 1990, 227(1):25-30. 182.	Dai JY et al. [Clinical observation of ear acupuncture at point heart in the treatment of coronary heart disease.] Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1995, 36(11):664-665 [in Chinese]. 183.	Cheng BA. [Clinical observation of ear acupressure treatment in 50 cases of angina pectoris.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(2):74-75 [in Chinese]. 184.	Mao XR et al. Effects of acupuncture on angina pectoris, ECG and blood lipids of patients with coronary heart disease. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1993, 3(4):15-19. 185.	Zhou XQ et al. [Influence of acupuncture on the calibre of coronary artery in coronary heart disease.] Journal of the Hunan College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1990, 10(3):166-167 [in Chinese]. 186.	Xue SM et al. Effects of acupuncture on the left ventricular diastolic function in patients with coronary heart disease. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1992, 2(2):10. 187.	Ho FM et al. Effect of acupuncture at nei-kuan on left ventricular function in patients with coronary artery disease. American Journal of Chinese Medicine, 1999, 27(2):149-156. 188.	Hu NK et al. [Acupuncture at neiguan causes haemorrheological improvement in patients with coronary heart disease.] Zhong Xi Yi Jiehe Shiyong Linchuang Jijiu [Clinical Emergency by Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine], 1997, 4(5):206-207 [in Chinese]. 189.	Hou DF et al. [Clinical observation of therapeutic effect of baihui (GV20)-yintang (EX-HN3) electro-acupuncture in 30 cases of post-apoplectic depression.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(8):432-433 [in Chinese]. 190.	Li CD et al. Treating post-stroke depression with "antidepressive" acupuncture therapy: A clinical study of 21 cases. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1994, 5(4):389-393. 191.	Luo HC et al. Electro-acupuncture vs amitriptyline in the treatment of depressive states. Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1985, 5(1):3-8. 192.	Luo HC et al. [Clinical observation of electro-acupuncture on 133 patients with depression in comparison with tricyclic amytriptyline.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1988, 8(2):77-80 [in Chinese]. 193.	Yang X. Clinical observation of needling extrameridian points in treating mental depression. Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1994, 14:14-18. 194.	Zhang B et al. A control study of clinical therapeutic effects of laser-acupuncture on depressive neurosis. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1996, 6(2):12-17. 195.	Jia YK et al. [Treatment of schizophrenia with helium-neon laser irradiation at acupoints.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1986, 6(1):19-21 [in Chinese]. 196.	Que YT et al. [Observation of 111 cases of competition stress syndrome treated with auriculo-pressure therapy.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1986, 6(2):57 [in Chinese]. 197.	Wen HL et al. Treatment of drug addiction by acupuncture and electrical stimulation. Asian Journal of Medicine, 1993, 9:138-141. 198.	Culliton RD et al. Overview of substance abuse acupuncture treatment research. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 1996, 2(1):149-159. 199.	Bullock ML et al. Auricular acupuncture in the treatment of cocaine abuse: a study of efficacy and dosing. Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, 1999, 16(1):31-38. 200.	Cai Z et al. [Acupuncture treatment in the late stage of addiction abstinence.] Jiangsu Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1998, 19(12):35 [in Chinese]. Return to top of Page 201.	Margolin A et al. Acupuncture for the treatment of cocaine dependence in methadone-maintained patients. American Journal of Addiction, 1993, 2(3):194-201. 202.	Washburn AM et al. Acupuncture heroin detoxification: a single-blind clinical trial. Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, 1993, 10:345-351. 203.	Clavel F et al. [A study of various smoking cessation programs based on close to 1000 volunteers recruited from the general population: 1-month results.] Revue Epidemiologique de Santé Publique, 1990, 38(2):133-138 [in French]. 204.	Fang YA. [Clinical study on giving up smoking with acupuncture.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1983, 2(2):30-31 [in Chinese]. 205.	He D et al. Effects of acupuncture on smoking cessation or reduction for motivated smokers. Preventive Medicine, 1997, 26(2):208-214. 206.	Waite NR et al. A single-blind, placebo-controlled trial of a simple acupuncture treatment in the cessation of smoking. British Journal off General Practice, 1998, 48(433):1487-1490. 207.	White AR et al. Randomized trial of acupuncture for nicotine withdrawal symptoms. Archives of Internal Medicine, 1998, 158(20):2251-2255. 208.	White AR et al. [Smoking cessation with acupuncture? A 'best evidence synthesis']. Forschende Komplimentarmedizin, 1997, 4(2):102-105 [in German]. 209.	Bullock ML et al. Controlled trial of acupuncture for severe recidivist alcoholism. Lancet, 1990, 335:20-21. 210.	Bullock ML et al. Acupuncture treatment of alcoholic recidivism: a pilot study. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1987, 15(4):313-320. 211.	Bullock ML et al. Controlled trial of acupuncture for severe recidivist alcoholism. Lancet, 1989, 1:1435-1439. 212.	Thorer H et al. Acupuncture after alcohol consumption: a sham controlled assessment. Acupuncture-Medicine, 1996, 14(2):63-67. 213.	Li YQ et al. Swift needling of zusanli and changqiang in treating infantile diarrhea. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1997, 8(2):187-189. 214.	Yang ZW. [Treatment of 100 cases of infantile diarrhoea by acupuncture.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 17(6):11. [in Chinese]. 215.	He JX et al. [Therapeutic effect of acupuncture at LI 4 in the treatment of infantile convulsion due to high fever.] Zhong Xi Yi Jiehe Shiyong Linchuang Jijiu [Clinical Emergency by Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine], 1997, 4(8):360-361 [in Chinese]. 216.	Jin MZ. [Acupuncture plus auricular acupressure treatment of 30 cases of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome.] Guangming Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1998, 78(5):23-24 [in Chinese]. 217.	Tian LD et al. [Observation of therapeutic effects of 68 cases of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome in children treated with acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(9):483-484 [in Chinese]. 218.	Wang CH et al. [Clinical study on acupuncture treatment of sudden deafness.] Acupuncture Research, 1998, 23(1):5-7 [in Chinese]. 219.	Zhang ZF et al. [Clinical study on acupuncture treatment of acute attack of Ménière's syndrome.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1983, 2(4):28 [in Chinese]. 220.	Jin XQ et al. [Clinical observation of 35 cases of subjective tinnitus treated with acupuncture.] Zhejiang Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1998, 33(3):118 [in Chinese]. 221.	Vilholm OJ et al. Effect of traditional Chinese acupuncture on severe tinnitus: a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical investigation with open therapeutic control. British Journal of Audiology, 1998, 32(3):197-204. 222.	Mekhamer A et al. Experience with unexplained otalgia. Pain, 1987, (Suppl.):361. 223.	Lang BX et al. [Clinical observation of the therapeutic effect of ear acupuncture in treating simple epistaxis.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(2):76-77 [in Chinese]. 224.	Luan YH et al. [Clinical observation of 60 cases of chloasma treated with auricular acupuncture and acupressure.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(9):485-486 [in Chinese]. 225.	Chen BZ et al. Comparative observation of the curative effects of herpes zoster treated by type JI He-Ne laser and polyinosinic acid. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1994, 4(2):29-31. Return to top of Page 226.	Lunderberg T et al. Effect of acupuncture on experimentally induced itch. British Journal of Dermatology, 1987, 17:771-777. 227.	Huang BS et al. [Treatment of 60 cases of neurodermatitis with three-step seven-star needling therapy.] Journal of Guiyang Chinese Medical College, 1998, 20(2):35-36 [in Chinese]. 228.	Li HQ et al. [Acupuncture treatment in 42 cases of acne vulgaris.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(3):166 [in Chinese]. 229.	Wang J et al. [Auriculo-acupuncture treatment of 32 cases of facial acne vulgaris.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 16(3):25 [in Chinese]. 230.	Dang W et al. [Clinical study on acupuncture treatment of pain caused by stomach cancer.] Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1995, 36(5):277-280 [in Chinese]. 231.	Dan Y et al. [Clinical study on analgesic effect of acupuncture on carcinomatous pain.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(1):17-18 [in Chinese]. 232.	Chen GP et al. [Observation of therapeutic effects of acupuncture in 44 cases with gastrointestinal reaction induced by radiotherapy and chemotherapy.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(7):359-360 [in Chinese]. 233.	Dundee JW et al. Acupuncture to prevent cisplatin-associated vomiting. Lancet, 1987, 1:1083. 234.	Li H et al. Clinical study on acupuncture treatment of side reactions of radiotherapy and chemotherapy for malignant tumour. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1998, 8(2):8-12. 235.	Liu A et al. [Clinical research on attenuating chemotherapeutic toxicity by acupoint stimulation therapy.] Shanghai Journal of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 17(6):8-9 [in Chinese]. 236.	Wang SZ et al. [Clinical study on acupuncture control of gastrointestinal reactions to chemotherapy.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(1):17-18 [in Chinese]. 237.	Xia YQ et al. [Acupuncture treatment of reactions due to radiotherapy in patients with malignant tumour.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1984, 4(6):6-8 [in Chinese]. 238.	Richards D et al. Stimulation of auricular acupuncture points in weight loss. Australian Family Physician, 1998, 27(S2):S73-77. 239.	Wang H. Clinical analysis on treatment of 40 cases of hyperlipemia with point-injection of radix salviae miltiorrhizae injection. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1998, 8(4):20-22. 240.	Kang SY et al. [Clinical investigation of the treatment of diabetes mellitus with timing acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1995, 15(1):6-8 [in Chinese]. 241.	Latief R. The effect of san yin ciao point on hyperglycemia of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Cermin Dumia Kedokteran, 1987, (44):20-23 [in Indonesian]. 242.	Xiong DZ et al. [Observation of the therapeutic effect of acupuncture in the treatment of drug-induced sialorrhea.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1993, 13(3):137-138 [in Chinese]. 243.	List T et al. The effect of acupuncture in the treatment of patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome: a controlled study. Acta Odontologica Scandinavica, 1998, 56(2):95-99. 244.	Appiah R et al. Treatment of primary Raynaud's syndrome with traditional Chinese acupuncture. Journal of Internal Medicine, 1997, 241(2):119-124. 245.	Ma RH et al. [Clinical observation of acupuncture treatment in polycystic ovary syndrome.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(11):602-623 [in Chinese]. 246.	Yang XT. [Observation of 108 cases of Tietze's syndrome treated with short needling plus cupping.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(7):435-436 [in Chinese]. 247.	Wolkenstein E, Horak F. A statistical evaluation of the protective effect of acupuncture against allergen-provoked rhinitis. Deutsche Zeitschrift für Akupunktur, 1993, 36(6):132-137. 248.	Biernacki W et al. Acupuncture in treatment of stable asthma. Respiratory Medicine, 1998, 92(9):1143-1145. 249.	Ding ZS. [Observation of therapeutic effect of 120 cases of bulbar paralysis treated with acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(3):128-129 [in Chinese]. 250.	Cai ZM. [The effect of acupuncture and auricular acupressure on colour discrimination.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(9):521-522 [in Chinese]. Return to top of Page 251.	Ma RZ et al. Clinical observation and study of mechanisms of acupuncture treatment of coronary heart disease. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1997, 7(1):3-8. 252.	Ding J et al. Comparative observation of curative effects of postoperative symptoms of the closed craniocerebral injury treated by acupuncture. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1997, 7(3):26-28. 253.	Clavel F et al. Helping people to stop smoking: randomized comparison of groups being treated with acupuncture and nicotine gum with control group. British Medical Journal, 1985, 291:1538-1539. 254.	Luo H et al. Clinical research on the therapeutic effect of the electroacupuncture treatment in patients with depression. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences, 1998, 52 (Suppl.): S338-S340. 255.	Liu ZS et al. [Clinical study on acupuncture treatment of dysphagia in pseudobulbar paralysis.] New Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1998, 30(3):24-25. [in Chinese]. 256.	Ma RH et al. [Clinical observation of 56 cases of hypo-ovarianism treated with acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(7):395-396 [in Chinese]. 257.	Tian LT et al. [Clinical observation of 100 children of hypophrenia treated mainly with acupuncture.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1996, 16(6):292-293 [in Chinese]. 258.	De Aloysio D, Penacchioni P. Morning sickness control in early pregnancy by eiguan point acupressure. Obstetrics and Gynecology, 1992 80(5): 852-854. 259.	Bayreuther J, Lewith GT, Pickering R. A double-blind cross-over study to evaluate the effectiveness of acupressure at pericardium 6 (P6) in the treatment of early morning sickness (EMS). Complementary Therapies in Medicine, 1994, 2:70-76. 260.	Dundee JW et al. Traditional Chinese acupuncture: a potentially useful antiemetic? British Medical Journal, 1986, 293:383-384. 261.	Ghaly RG et al. A comparison of manual needling with electrical stimulation and commonly used antiemetics. Anaesthesia, 1987,  45:1108-1110. 262.	Weightman WM et al. Traditional Chinese acupuncture as an antiemetic. British Medical Journal, 1987, 295(6610):1379-1380. 263.	Dundee JW et al. Acupuncture prophylaxis of cancer chemotherapy-induced sickness. Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1989, 82:268-271. 264.	Barsoum G et al. Postoperative nausea is relieved by acupressure. Journal of the Royal Society of  Medicine, 1990, 83(2):86-89. 265.	Ho RT et al. Electro-acupuncture and postoperative emesis. Anaesthesia, 1990, 45:327-329. 266.	Ho CM et al. Effect of PC 6 acupressure on prevention of nausea and vomiting after epidural morphine for post-cesarean section pain relief. Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica, 1996, 40(3):372-375. 267.	Andrzejowski J et al. Semi-permanent acupuncture needles in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Acupuncture-Medicine, 1996, 14(2):68-70. 268.	McConaghy P et al. Acupuncture in the management of postoperative nausea and vomiting in patients receiving morphine via a patient-controlled analgesia system. Acupuncture-Medicine, 1996, 14(1):2-5. 269.	Schwager KL et al. Acupuncture and postoperative vomiting in day-stay paediatric patients. Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, 1996, 24(6):674-677. 270.	Liu SX et al. Magnetotherapy of neiguan in preventing vomiting induced by cisplatin. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1997, 8(1):39-41. 271.    Al-Sadi M et al. Acupuncture in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Anaesthesia, 1997, 52(7):658-661. 272.	Stein DJ et al. Acupressure versus intravenous metoclopramide to prevent nausea and vomiting during spinal anesthesia for cesarean section. Anesthesia and Analgesia, 1997, 84(2):342-345. 273.	Schlager A et al. Laser stimulation of acupuncture point P6 reduces postoperative vomiting in children undergoing strabismus surgery. British Journal of Anaesthesia, 1998, 8(4):529-532. 274.	Chu YC et al. Effect of BL10 (tianzhu), BL11 (dazhu) and GB34 (yanglingquan) acuplaster for prevention of vomiting after strabismus surgery in children. Acta Anaesthesiologica Sinica, 1998, 36(1):11-16. 275.	Alkaissi A et al. Effect and placebo effect of acupressure (P6) on nausea and vomiting after outpatient gynaecological surgery. Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica, 1999, 43(3):270-274. Return to top of Page 276.	Shenkman Z et al. Acupressure-acupuncture antiemetic prophylaxis in children undergoing tonsillectomy. Anesthesiology, 1999, 90(5):1311-1316. 277.	Cheng PT et al. A therapeutic trial of acupuncture in neurogenic bladder of spinal cord injured patients-a preliminary report. Spinal Cord, 1998, 36(7):476-480. 278.	Felhendler D et al. Pressure on acupoints decreases postoperative pain. Clinical Journal of Pain, 1996, 12(4):326-329. 279.	Zou M et al. [Observation of therapeutic effects of combined treatment of ginger moxibustion and acupoint-injection in 30 cases of chronic pulmonary heart disease.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(7):389-390 [in Chinese]. 280.	Kho KH. The impact of acupuncture on pain in patients with reflex sympathetic dystrophy. Pain-Clinic, 1995, 8(1):59-61. 281.	Yu DF et al. [Acupuncture treatment in 86 cases of central serous retinopathy.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(5):273-274 [in Chinese]. 282.	Zhang B et al. [Controlled study of clinical effect of computer controlled electro-acupuncture in the treatment of schizophrenia.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1994, 14(1):17-20 [in Chinese]. 283.	Yu CQ et al. [Treatment of simple obesity in children with photo-acupuncture.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1998, 18(6):348-350 [in Chinese]. 284.	Chen Y et al. Observation of the time-effect of acupuncture in improving small airway function. World Journal of Acupuncture-Moxibustion, 1997, 7(2):26-28. 285.	Santiesteban AJ. Comparison of electro-acupuncture and selected physical therapy for acute spine pain. American Journal of Acupuncture, 1984, 12(3):257-261. 286.	Wu QF. 100 cases of stiff neck treated by contralateral acupuncture. International Journal of Clinical Acupuncture, 1997, 8(4):427-429. 287.	Zou XC et al. [Comparative study of cerebral infarction with acupuncture on six acupoints of yang meridian and calan tablets.] Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine, 1990, 10(4):199-202 [in Chinese]. 288.	Raustia AM et al. Acupuncture compared with stomatognathic treatment for temporomandibular joint dysfunction. Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry, 1986, 56(5):616-623. 289.	Ma S et al. [Observation of combined acupuncture and moxibustion treatment of 60 cases of ulcerative colitis.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(5):275-276 [in Chinese]. 290.	Lai XS. [Therapeutic effect of acupuncture in the treatment of senile vascular dementia.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1997, 17(4):201-202 [in Chinese]. 291.	Liu J et al. [Clinical study on treatment of vascular dementia by electroacupuncture of scalp acupoints.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(4):197-200 [in Chinese]. 292.	Jiang GH et al. [Controlled observation of electro-acupuncture treatment of vascular dementia.] Bulletin of Gaungzhou Traditional Chinese Medicine University, 1998, 15(2):110-112 [in Chinese]. 293.	Wang LQ. [A comparative study on acupuncture treatment of viral encephalitis in children.] Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion, 1998, 18(7):397-398 [in Chinese]. Return to top of Page Sign-up to recieve the SAGE Newsletter | Acupuncture Points | | Acupuncture Pictures | | Chinese Herbs | | Chinese Medicine Theory | | Chinese Herbal Medicine | | Internal Medicine | | Women's Health - Gynecology | | Tuina Massage | | Pediatrics - Childrens disorders | | Dermatology - Skin disorders | | Gerontology - Elderly | | Food Cure - Diet | | Disorders of the Senses | | Common Disease | | Qigong - Taiji | | Practitioner Search | | Related Sites & Links | | Chinese Medicine Journals | | Acupuncture Schools | | Five Element Acupuncture | | Acupuncture Infertility Vancouver | | Traditional Chinese Medicine Association of British Columbia (BC) | | Acupuncture Pregnancy Vancouver | | Nutrition | | Pain Information | | Early Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy | | Pregnancy | | Infertility | | Men's Health Vancouver | | Chinese Medicine & Acupuncture Continuing Education | copyright © Health Information Organization. 2005. [ Terms and Conditions ]
 [ Disclaimer ]
  [ Privacy Policy ] Chinese Medicine & Acupuncture Disease Treatment for Patients | Chinese Medicine (TCM) & Acupuncture Information for Students | Pre~seed Vancouver | STUD Men's Fertility Friendly Underwear Men's Health & Acupuncture Vancouver (fertility, ED, Prostatitis, CPPS) | Pregnancy & Acupuncture Vancouver | Infertility IVF Acupuncture Chinese Medicine Treatment Clinic Vancouver Infertility IVF Information Vancouver Menopause & Acupuncture Vancouver | Nutrition | Therapeutic Touch Winnipeg Manitoba | Pain Information Acupuncture Vancouver | Infertility & Pregnancy Videos A