Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

SCDHEC: Flu in S.C. - Cold and Flu Skip to content South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control - www.scdhec.gov South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control We promote and protect the health of the public and the environment. Flu Home Flu Symptoms Where to Get Flu Shot Facts About Flu S.C. Flu Cases Free Posters, Resources Info for Specific Groups Older Adults People with Health Problems Parents Pregnant Women Healthcare Professionals Schools and Child Care Centers Businesses Residential Facilities Flu: Background Info What is a Pandemic? What is Seasonal Flu? What is H1N1 Flu? What is Avian Flu? Need more info? Visit the CDC Visit Flu.gov Flu in South Carolina Cold and Flu Cold Flu Pneumonia What are the symptoms? Sore throat; runny nose; nasal congestion; watery eyes; and 
                  sneezing are the most common symptoms. Some people may also 
                  experience a cough and mild fatigue and body aches Fever, often high and lasting 3-4 days; headache; body aches; 
                  severe fatigue lasting up to 2 or 3 weeks; cough, (usually a 
                  dry cough) are the most common symptoms. Some people may also 
                  experience a runny nose, congestion or sore throat Persistent dry cough or productive cough, fever and chills, 
                  difficulty breathing, chest pain, headache How long does it take from the time of infection until 
                  symptoms begin? 1 - 3 days 1 - 3 days 1 - 3 days How long does it last? 3 - 7 days 1 - 2 weeks Pneumonia can be caused by a virus or bacteria. The duration 
                  of the illness will depend on the germ. How long are people infectious (able to spread the 
                  disease)? Varies from 2 days to 3 weeks Up to 7 days from the start of symptoms This is not known for sure, although the theory is that communicability 
                  may end within 24 hours of beginning antibiotic treatment. How is it treated? Colds are caused by a virus, usually a rhinovirus; antibiotics 
                    will not help anyone recover from a cold. We all know this, but, there really is no cure for the cold. 
                    The best treatment is to get plenty of rest and drink a lot 
                    of liquids. Over-the-counter cough and cold products may offer 
                    temporary relief of some of the symptoms. Flu is caused by a virus; antibiotics will not help anyone 
                  recover from the flu. There are anti-viral medicines available that may help reduce 
                    the severity and duration of the flu, but only if started 
                    within 48 hours of the start of symptoms. Other treatment 
                    includes getting plenty of rest and drinking a lot of liquids. 
                    Aspirin or acetaminophen will help reduce fever and muscle 
                    aches. Children with the flu should NOT take aspirin. People with bacterial pneumonia can be treated with antibiotics. People with viral pneumonia usually get well with supportive 
                    care (plenty of fluids, rest, good nutrition). Severe viral 
                    pneumonia is treated with antiviral medicines. See the doctor 
                    if a productive cough or a cough with fever lasts longer than 
                3 weeks. What causes it? Colds are caused by any one of hundreds of different viruses. 
                  The virus is spread through respiratory drops when a person 
                  coughs or sneezes. The large number of viruses that can cause 
                  a cold is one reason that a vaccine has not/cannot be developed 
                  at this time Influenza is caused by a virus. The virus is spread through 
                  respiratory drops when a person coughs or sneezes. There are 
                  different types of flu viruses, but the most common are Type 
                  A and Type B. There are various strains of each which are usually 
                  named after the area where they were first identified. Each 
                  year they can change, so that is why people need to get the 
                  vaccine each year. Most pneumonia infections are caused by exposure to a common 
                  bacteria or virus. People with weakened immune systems are more 
                  likely to catch pneumonia. What can people do to avoid these "bugs"? WASH YOUR HANDS!Frequent hand washing is the best defense 
                  against cold viruses. Avoiding crowds, and limiting contact 
                  with people who are coughing or sneezing will also help to reduce 
                  the chance of getting a cold GET A FLU SHOT!* The shot can't cause the flu. The worst case 
                  is that in a very few cases, a person's arm may be a little 
                  sore for a few days or, even less likely, the person may feel 
                  weak or have a slight fever for a couple of days. Avoiding crowds 
                  and frequent hand washing will also help to reduce the risk 
                  of getting the flu. PEOPLE AT HIGH RISK SHOULD GET A PNEUMONIA VACCINE!Those 
                    at high risk include: people over 65 people with chronic respiratory, cardiovascular or liver 
                      diseases residents of nursing homes or other long term care facilities anyone who is immune compromised anyone with diabetes premature babies anyone with sickle cell disease * If you are allergic to eggs, pregnant or have a chronic disease, check with your physician before getting a flu shot. If, after reading the information available on our website, you have questions about the vaccine, please call 1-800-27SHOTS (1-800-277-4687). About DHEC | Accessibility | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Freedom of Information | Jobs | Reader Downloads | State Employee Directory | SC.gov South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control    2600 