Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Chronic Pain Treatment in Columbia and Baltimore, Maryland Home About the Doctor About the Staff FAQ What's New Contact Us New Patients Start Here An Introduction To Chiropractic Conditions Treated By Chiropractic Our Blog, Body at Work Nutritional Supplements Acute & Chronic Back & Neck Pain Many people are learning that chiropractic care 
						offers an excellent treatment option for neck and low back pain, be it acute (fresh injury), sub-acute (generally a few weeks after an injury), or chronic (long-lasting or not responding to other forms of care).  
						The reason why chiropractic works so well is because 
						care is geared toward correcting the underlying cause of pain and dysfunction, 
						not just treating it.   This means that the results can be significant and long lasting.  
						Many people resort to drug therapy for neck and low back pain 
						and it is important to remember that pain medications (and muscle relaxants) will not change the joint mechanics and correct the underlying mechanical fault(s) that led to injury.  Acute injuries many times lead to chronic injuries if left untreated, even if the pain subsides.  This is because degenerative changes take months or even years to do their damage. Conservative chiropractic care is a viable option for 
						many different conditions. Chiropractors treat most all 
						neck and low back conditions, such as facet imbrication 
						(jamming), disc bulges, disc herniations, post-surgical 
						pain reduction and rehabilitation, whiplash trauma 
						(cervical acceleration/deceleration disorder), muscle 
						strains and ligament sprains, muscle imbalances, loss of 
						cervical lordosis, poor posture, spondylolisthesis, and 
						most everything else. Dr. Manison believes in not only 
						treating the condition to get the patient out of pain 
						and to improve function, but also to follow that with 
						core stabilization/rehabilitative exercises so that the 
						patient can be more dependent on him/herself.  One 
						reason many physicians in the Baltimore, Ellicott City, Howard County, and Columbia 
						areas choose Columbia Advanced Chiropractic, LLC  for their patients with 
						disc-related and other neck and low back pain problems 
						is because of the  use of the Cox flexion/distraction technique .  It is one of, if not the best, treatment protocols for disc and other related pathology.  
						Couple this technique with core stabilization exercises 
						and advanced soft tissue techniques such as Graston Technique and Active Release Techniques (ART) and the patient can 
						be assured that he/she is receiving the most advanced, 
						specific, and best quality care possible at Columbia 
						Advanced Chiropractic, LLC, of Columbia / Howard County, MD . Conditions Treated by Chiropractic Acute & Chronic Back & Neck Pain Extremity Pain & Dysfunction Repetitive Use Injuries Accident Related Injuries Herniated Disc & Related Effects Headaches Sports Injuries Pinched Nerve Joint Pain Other Conditions Our Location 8835 Columbia 100 Parkway Suite D Columbia, MD 21045 410.964.3229 click here to e-mail us All rights reserved. Dr. Allen M. Manison. Copyright © 2005. Site by Etna Int