<1%* Dietary Fiber 1 g 4%* Sodium 80 mg 3%* Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Gel Concentrate 30 g + * Percent Daily Values (DV) are based on a 2000 calorie diet. + Daily Value Not Established. Ingredients: Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Gel Concentrate,  Sodium 
						Benzoate, and Potassium Sorbate (added to preserve freshness). Supplement Facts - Aloe Kiwi Serving 
						Size - 1 oz. (29.57ml) Servings 
						Per Container - 8 Amount 
						Per Serving % Daily 
						Value* Total 
						Carbohydrate 1 g <1%* Dietary Fiber 1 g 4%* Sodium 80 mg 3%* Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Gel Concentrate 30 g + * Percent Daily Values (DV) are based on a 2000 calorie diet. + Daily Value not established. I ngredients: Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Gel Concentrate, 
						Kiwi/Strawberry natural flavoring, Sodium Benzoate, 
						and Potassium Sorbate (added to protect freshness). How To Take Aloe Vera Power For normal health maintenance purposes, we recommend a capful of Aloe Vera Power once a day, taken straight or diluted with up to three capfuls of water. When fighting fungal or viral infections, we recommend two capfuls three times a day or even more. It can be applied directly on wounds, infections, dry areas, etc. in the skin or scalp. Aloe Vera Power is part of the Eight Day Cleanse program . Read Some of Our User Experiences Regarding Our Concentrated Aloe Vera Product. Aloe Vera - A Plant With a Long List of Nutritional and Health Benefits Aloe Vera juice is one of the most vitamin and mineral packed nutrition drinks around. Natural aloe Vera juice contains 99.5% water, 18 amino acids, vitamins including vitamin B-1, vitamin B-2, vitamin C, niacinamide, vitamin B-6, choline, essential oil, calcium, chlorine, sodium, potassium, manganese, monosaccharides and polysaccharides including uronic acid, mannose and glucose. Aloe Vera also contains aloin (barbaloin), ethereal oil, isobarbaloin, emoding lucosides of d-Arabinose, emodin, resitannol, ester of cinnamic acid and cinnamic acid. Some of the documented healing properties of Aloe include the following: Helps suppress candida and microbial growth throughout the gastrointestinal tract, especially the mouth and upper GI, helping to prevent infections, pain and gas Anti viral and antitumoral activities through activation of immune responses Helpful in reducing urinary tract infections Helps reduce sugar cravings Helps heal wounds Supports surgical, burn and wound Recovery Is an effective antioxidant, standing guard against free radicals Helps heal Psoriasis lesions Eases intestinal problems Reduces blood sugar in diabetes Reduces arthritic swelling Curtails HIV infection Provides nutritional support for HIV patients Benefits for cancer patients Aloe is Great for Keeping the Skin Healthy Aloe Vera is well known as a supreme skin care regimen. It can aid in keeping the skin supple, and is used in the control of acne and eczema. It has a moisturizing effect and is a common remedy for sunburn and skin irritation due to insect bites and allergies. Aloe's healing power comes partly from increasing the availability of oxygen in the skin and partly from the suppression of free radicals and partly from the increase of antioxidants in the skin. Aloe Plant Structure Two "juices" may be extracted from the plant – a bitter yellow sap or "latex," and an opalescent internal gel. The yellow sap contains anthraquinones, chief among which is aloin. These substances are powerful laxatives which have been used for this purpose for several centuries. In the plant, this sap is contained in special tubules which form a portion of the nutrient tubes of the vascular bundles located just beneath the wax-covered, thick green rind of the leaf. The gel, which constitutes the bulk of the leaf substance, serves a s the water storage organ for the plant. This gel, which may be removed as a semisolid “fillet” before processing, contains more than 200 different substances. Chief among these are polysaccharides (gluco-mannans), glycoproteins, vitamins, mineral and enzymes. Scientific evidence is accruing which documents several several activities that offer considerable promise when used in cosmetics and consumer pharmaceuticals. Although, many Aloe products avoid the rind portion of the Aloe because the sap is very bitter, we utilize the rind sap and the gel as the clinical health results are superior to using just the gel. In the amounts furnished in our product there is virtually no laxative effect. Copyright 2008-2011 Healthy-Living.Org. All rights reserved. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug  Administration. No product mentioned herein is intended to diagnose,  treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product. The information on this website is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of the Healthy- Living  Org staff and contributors. It is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and it is not intended as medical advice. You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or for modification of any medication regimen. You should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation program, before starting or discontinuing any medication, or if you suspect you have a health problem. You should keep in mind that cited references to ongoing nutritional scientific study are most likely not accepted by the FDA as conclusive. These references and mentions of potential benefits are disavowed as product claims and are only included for educational value and as starting points for your own research. No food or supplement can be considered safe for all individuals. What may benefit 999,999 of a million people may harm you. Therefore, no one can take responsibility for your health 