Vary: Accept-Encoding

Surgery for Obesity Surgery for
Obesity by Edward Eaton Mason MD, Ph.D. (from ISBR Newsletter,
Fall 1999) My surgical colleague and I were comparing notes about our own
weight loss after operation. He had a five vessel coronary bypass
and I had my sigmoid colon and gallbladder removed. These were
both "old fashioned" open operations, with the usual
amount of surgical trauma. We both lost weight following surgery.
It has been over a year now and neither of us is back to our
preoperative weight. Neither of us would recommend our operation
for the purpose of weight control, nor do we believe the
catabolic effect of surgery is desirable. Every year there are more morbid obese and those seeking
bariatric surgery are heavier. Intestinal bypass was considered
the preferred surgical treatment at one time. Then it became
gastric bypass. Since 1980, I have been promoting vertical banded
gastroplasty. In Europe, the adjustable gastric band is now very
popular. FDA approval is needed before it can be marketed in the
U.S.A. I recently reviewed transposition of the terminal ileum to
the duodenum which provides glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)
whenever glucose is ingested.1 Also known as the
"ileal-brake" hormone, GLP-1 slows down or stops
emptying of the stomach and slows motility of the small bowel. It
also provides all of the effects one might desire for the
treatment of type-2 diabetes. Ileal transposition needs formal
study in humans before it can be recommended, however. At the
June 1999 ASBS meeting, there was discussion regarding research
into an implanted electrical stimulator to pace the stomach.
Recently there was news regarding research where pacing the vagus
nerve in the neck made the depressed patients laugh and lose
weight. Bariatric surgery still does not
have sufficient data from enough patients with any procedure to
say which operation is best. I am concerned about the goals of
surgeons and patients and their level of interest in what really
goes on inside the body after alterations of the anatomy. I am
concerned about the focus on the superficial and results from the
first year with a lack of concern about how life will be affected
when patients are 10 and 20 years older. A few years ago, the NBSR analyzed changes in obesity surgery
that occurred over the last decade.2 There was a progressive
shift from simple to more complex operations or, to state this in
other terms, from gastroplasty to gastric bypass. Even within
these broad categories there was a shift from one operation to a
variety of operations. Within bypass operations there was an
increase in more malabsorptive procedures, moving away from the
standard Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass (RGB). There was an increase in
stomach resection to reduce risk of peptic ulcer in the
gastroenterostomy stoma and duodenum. Excess acid is still needed
to produce peptic ulcers, whether helicobacter pylori bacteria
are present or not. There is a vast amount of medical literature
regarding the effect of alterations to the upper digestive tract
upon ulcer production. We are leaving the century of ulcer
surgery but should not ignore what was learned lest we repeat
mistakes of the golden age in stomach research. Recently, I wrote a paper reviewing risks of various
operations and encouraging surgeons to inform their patients of
the exact pouch size and (for bypass operations) lengths of the
biliopancreatic, alimentary and common limbs. Patients need to
know what they are getting into and should not choose an
operation without knowing the true risks. The operative technique
should not be modified to suit the approach. Even more important,
the operation chosen should not be based upon the length(s) of
incision(s) in the abdominal wall. Surgery for obesity first became noticed because of remarkable
weight loss produced by intestinal bypass. Obesity surgery
survived many complications and side effects of intestinal
bypass. For the vast majority of patients today, there is no
operation that will control weight to a "normal" level
without introducing risks and side effects that over a lifetime
may raise questions about its use for surgical treatment of
obesity. If surgeons do not obtain
the needed data to evaluate these technical variations in
operations, over a lifetime, the benefits may cease to be
available for the severely obese. We need more effort in
obtaining 5, 10 and 15 year follow-up. 1. Mason EE. Ileal transposition and
enteroglucagon/GLP-1 in obesity surgery. Obesity Surgery 9:
223-228, 1999. 2. Mason EE, Tang S, Renquist KE,
Cullen J, Doherty C, Maher JW, I(N)BSR Contributors. A decade of
change in obesity surgery. Obesity Surgery 7: 189-197, 1997. 3. Mason EE, Hesson W. Informed consent
for obesity surgery. Obesity Surgery 8:419-