
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 14:47:39 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.14
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Tract Infections PREGNANCY Pregnancy Week by Week Pregnancy Explained A to Z Trying to Conceive Due Date Calculator Birth Plan Template Pregnancy Videos Pregnancy Blog Share Your Pregnancy Pictures First Trimester Reading Second Trimester Reading Third Trimester Reading NEWBORN BABY WOMENS HEALTH Teen Health Menopause Women's Health NUTRITION-BEAUTY COMMUNITY Pregnancy Blog Ask Our Doc - Pregnancy Q & A Share Your Pregnancy Pictures Follow us on FaceBook Follow us on Twitter Suggestions and Feedback Christian Books and Games About Us Contact Us HEALTH VIDEOS Women's Health Diet and Lifestyle General Health Alternatives to Hysterectomy Breast Cancer - Herceptin Breast Cancer Screening Breast Cancer Guidelines Breast Pain Drug Limits Heart Risk Endometriosis Hysterectomy Osteoporosis Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder Surgical Sterilization Urinary Incontinence Urinary Tract Infections Pap Smear Sexual Health Urinary Tract Infections - Symptoms, Risks & Preventions Urinary Tract infections At some point or another most women will experience the pain and discomfort 
associated with a urinary tract infection or UTI. Urinary Tract Infections are 
in fact one of the most common infections that occur in young women. Women's health surveys indicate more than 
50 percent of women will report having a UTI at some point in their life. A UTI can range in severity from infection of the bladder (cystitis) to 
infection of the kidney (pyelonephritis), a much more severe form of UTI that 
may cause severe complications. Most patients that have a UTI will have cystitis 
that can be treated effectively with a short regimen of antibiotics. The Biology of an Urinary Tract Infection The urinary tract consists of the kidneys, bladder and urethra. Bacteria 
sometimes enter the urinary tract and multiply, causing an infection or UTI. 
Most of these infections are confined to the bladder, however in certain cases 
the bacteria can travel up to the kidneys causing a more severe infection. Women are much more likely to contract a UTI than men. This may be due to the 
fact that the urethral opening to the anus is closer in women, and the length or 
the urethra prior to opening into the bladder is shorter in women, allowing the 
opportunity for bacteria to pass more easily. A common cause of UTIs is 
contamination by bacteria found in fecal matter, which can move up into the 
bladder. Risk Factors for Developing a Urinary Tract Infection Sexual intercourse. Use of spermicides, particularly when in combination with diaphragm. New sexual partners. Recent surgery or procedures involving the urinary tract. Pregnancy Compromised immune system. The Most Common Symptoms of a UTI Symptoms of a UTI vary from person to person. In some mild cases no symptoms 
may be present. The overwhelming majority of women with a UTI will present 
however with some or all of the following: Frequent urge to urinate, with little output. Pain or burning during urination. Blood in the urine. Pain in the lower abdomen. The symptoms of a UTI are sometimes different in pregnant women, who may 
experience nausea in addition to burning. It is important if you suspect a UTI 
that you seek out medical attention. The symptoms of a UTI often mimic other 
conditions including vaginitis, which may cause burning with urination or pain 
with intercourse. Infection of the kidneys is a more serious complication of a UTI, and may result 
in side pain, nausea and vomiting, as well as fever. Treatment of an Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Treatment of a UTI typically consists of administration of antibiotics. 
Increasing fluid intake may also help flush bacteria from the bladder. Though cranberry is a popular folk remedy for relieving urinary tract infections 
in women, there are no definitive studies available at this time that support 
the use of cranberry juice for treating a UTI. Urinary track infections in pregnant women need to be treated aggressively, as a simple bladder 
infection is much more likely to result in a kidney infection and preterm labor. Two percent of pregnant women have bladder infections that are asymptomatic. The Prevention of an Urinary Tract Infection There are several things you can do to decrease your likelihood of contracting a 
UTI. The more common preventive methods include: Urination after intercourse, which may help eliminate bacteria in the 
	vagina. Changes in contraception, particularly among women who use spermicides 
	or a diaphragm. Consumption of cranberry juice. While cranberry may not help alleviate 
	an existing UTI, there is anecdotal evidence suggesting that the juice may 
	decrease the ability of E. coli to stick to the urinary tract lining cells. Increasing fluid intake post intercourse, which can help flush bacteria. Women's Healthcare Topics   All Rights Reserved  ©Copyright 20