Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

exercise for low back pain How to Beat Arthritis! Get our FREE monthly Ezine and get your life back! Enter your E-mail Address Enter your First Name (optional) Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you Insider Arthritis Tips. Exercise for low back pain by Nathan Wei, MD, FACP, FACR Nathan Wei is a nationally known board-certified rheumatologist and author of the Second Opinion Arthritis Treatment Kit.  It's available exclusively at this website... not available in stores. Click here: Second Opinion Arthritis Treatment Kit Different strategies are recommended for people with back pain. There is not strong evidence to prove which advice can help most for acute back pain.  There is more evidence on care for chronic back pain. Rationales for specific exercise programs include that exercise increases the amount of endorphins (painkilling chemicals produced by the body) in the body's circulation; that it can improve back health and ease of movement; and that it can stabilize the body . The specific purpose of exercises or programs are: •  Strengthening abdominal and back muscles •  Helping warm up muscles to prevent injury •  Encouraging stretching and movement to reduce stiffness, muscle tension and spasm (cramping) •  Improving fitness, strength, posture and/or balance •  Lowering stress and relaxing muscle tension While brief rest (24 hours) may be helpful for acute low back pain or acute flares occurring in the face of chronic low back syndromes, too much rest and lack of movement can cause a loss of fitness and make the situation worse. Here are a few simple exercises.  Do not do these exercises if they make you feel worse.  Also... start slow. Torso Bend Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Place your hands on the small of your back. With knees straight, bends backwards at the waist. Bend as far as possible and hold for one or two seconds. This will increase your limberness. Crunches: With your hands touching the back of your head, slowly raise your head and shoulders off the floor. Hold that position for a ten count. Do five reps. Do not pull on your neck to lift yourself up. Use your abs to increase core strength. Wall Glide. Stand with your back firm against the well. Feet about shoulder width apart. Keeping your back against the wall bend at the knees and slide down the wall until your knees bend to about 90 degrees. Hold that position for a count of five. Slide back up the wall. Do five reps. Thigh Raise: Lie on floor on your stomach. Lift your left leg as far as you can comfortably. Hold it for a count to 10. Lower. Do 5 reps each leg. You'll feel this in the back of your thighs. Backwards Leg Swing: Using a chair for balance, lift your left leg back and up. Keep your knee straight. Hold it and low. Do 5 reps with each leg. One Legged Lift: On your back on the floor arms flat at your side. Keeping it straight, lift your left leg off the floor and hold for a count of 10. Do 5 reps each leg. Obviously, with any exercise for lower back pain start slow. In addition to stretching and strengthening, it is also a good idea to start a non-impact aerobic exercise program.  Walking with well-cushioned shoes is probably the simplest exercise for most people. An elliptical trainer is a piece of exercise equipment that is valuable and offers a very nice low impact, back-friendly workout. People with low back syndromes should avoid standard stationary bicycles (recumbent bikes are better) and rowing machines. Get more information about exercise for low back pain and related issues as well as... •	Insider arthritis tips that help you erase the pain and fatigue of rheumatoid arthritis almost overnight! •	Devastating ammunition against low back pain... discover 9 secrets! •	Ignored remedies that eliminate fibromyalgia symptoms quickly! •	Obsolete treatments for knee osteoarthritis that still are used... and may still work for you! •	The stiff penalties you face if you ignore this type of hip pain... •	7 easy-to-implement neck pain remedies that work like a charm! •	And much more... Click here Second Opinion Arthritis Treatment Kit Return to arthritis home page. Copyright (c) 2004 Arthritis-Treatment-and-Relief.com - All Rights Reserved How to Beat Arthritis! Get our FREE monthly Ezine and get your life back! Enter your E-mail Address Enter your First Name (optional) Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. 