Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Smoking New Horizon 5 Northgate, Cottingham East Yorkshire HU16 
                                4HL. Tel/Fax/Ans: 01482 847491 email: info@nhlc.co.uk So you want to stop smoking...? The difference between a non smoker and a smoker isn't just that a non smoker doesn't actually smoke; it's that 
                                            a non smoker doesn't have the desire or need to smoke. I can help with this and help to banish that need and desire.  The sessions will be tailored towards your 
                                            personal needs and specific habit. 
                                             For example, we will find out what are your particular emotional or situational triggers.  It might be that you automatically want a cigarette when you get in your car, or when you have a drink, or smoke more when you feel stressed.  Whatever you particular habit I will tailor the sessions to address this.  Along with this, I will address any concerns you may have about becoming a non-smoker. For example if you are concerned that you may gain 
                                            weight as a side effect,  I will ensure your treatment deals with these concerns so that you feel nothing but calm and relaxed in the situations where you used to smoke. What makes Hypnosis so successful? It deals with your subconscious mind and your specific triggers, therefore stopping 
                                                you reaching for that cigarette in situations that you normally would. It eliminates those negative thoughts – such as the belief you will gain weight 
                                                when you stop smoking etc... Hypnosis can free you from the withdrawal symptoms and leave you only with 
                                                a calming control of the situation. It helps to alleviate stress and anxiety- which can be an aggravating factor 
                                                and make you want to smoke more.  This wouldn't be a problem anymore. It is a painless, drug free, patch free way to conquer your habit, leaving you confident and calm. As well as being free from the anti-social habit and the smell, you will be free to 
                                            spend the newly available money on what you choose, rather than an unwanted craving! There is no doubt that hypnotherapy can  help you to kick 
                                            what is a seriously addictive, anti-social and injurious habit. Indeed, Stop-Smoking treatment is generally recognised as the 'bread and butter' of most hypnotherapists. You will no 
                                            doubt have seen advertisements telling you that you can stop smoking after one hour of hypnotherapy. Our view is this... Treat such claims with caution! Why do we say this? Because research shows that such claims have limited 
                                            validity. In fact, the most serious published research on this issue shows the following.. You can see that the most successful treatment method is multiple session hypnosis, with around 65% of people managing to stay stopped twelve months after treatment. 
                                The least successful method is stopping without any support whatsoever. That is, more than 95% of people will fail to give up smoking without support (so don't be hard on 
                                yourself if you've tried it this way and failed). Give me a call now to discuss your habit... ... and how to