Vary: Accept-Encoding

Aloe Vera Aloe Vera The Herb Spiral Home Page Supplement Guide the herb spiral Return Return Learn which herbs are commonly used to treat Traditionally Aloe Vera has been used to soothe skin irritations, burns and lesions. Many studies have confirmed the laxative effect of Aloe In most of the studies, the aloe was not used alone but in combination with other laxatives, such as celandin or psyllium. Aloe gel has been used commonly used externally for the treatment of wounds, minor burns, and skin irritations Aloe Vera is a popular ingredient in sunscreens, moisturisers, shampoos, soaps and even toothpaste. Fot internal use aloe vera is effective as a laxative. Many other claims have been made for it treatment of other complaints but none have been adequately substantiated to mention here. The gel of the aloe plant traverses the colon mostly undigested, although some is metabolized by enzymes produced by intestinal bacteria. The result includes more frequent stools with softer consistency. . News Comment Aloe Vera the healer Gulf Daily News, Bahrain - 12 Jul 2008 Bahrain's soils and weather conditions are ideal for growing the living "first-aid kit" Aloe Vera ( Aloe barbadensis), widely known as the "true aloe " or ... Home Remedies For Mouth Ulcers - Treat Mouth Ulcers American Chronicle, CA - 22 Oct 2007 #Apply Aloe Vera juice as a mouth rinse. # Pouring salt directly on the ulcer can prove effective, however this can be extremely painful and can scar. ... Sunday supplement Scotsman, United Kingdom - 22 0ct 2007 Aloe vera deodorant is a gentle and effective natural alternative, free from preservatives or aluminium salts. Instead, it uses lichen extract, ... Clear aloe vera gel great for skin commercialappeal.com (subscription), TN - Sep 2006 Cheap skin treatment: Clear aloe vera gel is a quick, cheap acne fighter and moisturizer all in one. It will be a little sticky at first, but it works. ... Medical Files : Aloe vera for heart disease, cancer? ... her husband felt a lot better after undergoing a complete course of intravenous infusion of chelation drugs plus some oral supplements, including aloe vera . ... INQ7.net, Philippines - Apr 2006 Aloe vera juice may help colon - but don't make a habit of it ... Other clinical trials in Japan indicate that certain compounds in aloe vera reduce the secretion of stomach juices and the formation of lesions. ... Fort Wayne News Sentinel, IN - Mar 2006 Health problems that can get you down and how plants can make you ... ... How does it work? The medicinal properties of Aloe Vera have been well known and recorded since biblical times. The lower leaf can ... ic Wales, United Kingdom - Apr 2006 Precautions and side effects (refer also to statements below ) Applied topically, aloe vera is generally considered quite safe. Some people develop a mild allergic reaction marked by itching or a rash. Aloe Vera laxatives should be taken by pregnant or breast-feeding women as it may trigger uterine contractions. It should also be avoided during menstruation Aloe vera latex laxatives are not recommended for children and elderly people. Some products containing Aloe Vera NATURE'S HERBS Aloe Vera Gel NOW Aloe Vera Gels TWINLAB Na-PCA with Aloe Vera NATURE'S WAY Aloe Vera bookmark this page Recent articles on Aloe Vera Treat Eczema Skin Symptoms With Aloe Vera by Evelyn_Lim Aloe Vera And Its Incredible Compounds by Kellie_Hastings Aloe Vera Juice for