
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 12:34:14 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Important Information about Pertussis Search Site Map Contact Us RSS Calendar SIPH Home Community Tools Calendar of Events News and Events RSS Feed YouTube Channel SDHD Information About Us Agency Directory Board of Health Contact Us Counties Served Job Openings Information cont. Directors Message Fees History Resources Privacy Policy Search Environmental Health Environmental Health Bottled Water Childcare info Coal Plants Drinking Water Establishment Food Safety Farmers Food Safety Food Inspection Results Links & Support Methamphetamine Mortgage Survey Request Form Onsite Disposal Solid Waste Subdivisions Swimming Pool Course Swimming Pool Permit App. Vendor Packet West Nile Virus Family and Community Health Family and Community Health Health Nursing Head Lice HIV/AIDS Immunizations Prenatal Care Family Planning School Health Women's Health Check WIC Health Promotion Health Promotion Pregnancy Prevention Arthritis Cancer Control Diabetes Epidemiology Fit and Fall Proof™ Handwashing Influenza (Flu) Living Well in Idaho Oral Health Physical Avtivity Radon Safe Kids Skin Cancer Slag Tobacco Cessation Tobacco Education Public Health Preparedness Public Health Preparedness Citizen Corps Council Links & Support Idaho Health Care System Preparedness Program Medical Reserve Corps Medical Volunteer Skill Level Survey Preparedness & Response Preparedness Minute Videos Special Populations Storm Ready Suggested Training Nutrition Services (WIC) - Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention - Arthritis - Comprehensive Cancer Control Program - Diabetes - Epidemiology & Communicable Disease Program - Fit and Fall Proof™ - Handwashing - Influenza (Flu) - Living Well in Idaho - Oral Health (Fluoride Varnish) - Physical Activity & Nutrition Program - Radon - Safe Kids - Skin Cancer - Slag - Tobacco Cessation - Tobacco Education Search our site Important Information about Pertussis What is pertussis (whooping cough)? Whooping cough is a respiratory infection caused by bacteria. Whooping cough begins like a common cold with a runny nose and scratchy throat. After a few days, a mild cough begins and over the following days, this cough becomes progressively worse. Children and adults who get pertussis experience spells of violent coughing. It is not uncommon to cough to the point of gagging or vomiting, or to cough to the point of breathlessness. In between spells of coughing, children may appear to be doing okay. Coughing spells (called paroxysmal coughing) are worse at night. Untreated, the course of pertussis lasts weeks and sometimes months. The respiratory tract can take up to a full year to recover completely. Infants under one year are at highest risk for death from pertussis pneumonia. How is pertussis spread to other people? Pertussis is spread by direct contact with the discharges from the nose and throat of an infected person. This can be through droplets coughed or sneezed into the air by infected persons. What is the contagious period? Pertussis is spread very easily in the early stage and for about three weeks after the coughing spells begin. If a person with pertussis takes antibiotics, the disease can no longer be spread after five days, even though the person may still have a cough. What is the time between being infected and becoming ill? It is usually seven to ten days, but may be as long as 21 days. How do I know if I have been exposed? If you have spent significant time in close face-to-face conversation with someone with pertussis, or shared food or drink with them, you could be exposed. Usually, pertussis causes illness from 1-3 weeks after exposure, so you may have been exposed but not be ill yet. What should I do if I have been exposed? If you believe you were exposed within the past 3 weeks, we recommend you discuss taking antibiotics with your doctor. When persons have been exposed to pertussis, public health recommends they consider taking antibiotics to protect them from developing and spreading pertussis further. What should I do if I am sick now? Please see your family doctor. Please let your doctor know that you may have been exposed to pertussis. If you are ill, and your doctor feels you may have pertussis, he or she may want to treat you and your family to prevent them from becoming ill. Handwashing helps to prevent the transfer of many germs. Coughing into a tissue captures infectious droplets so they can be tossed into the waste basket. Immunizations for pertussis (for young children only) are available and can help to either prevent the disease altogether or decrease the severity of the disease. Immunization for pertussis consists of a series of 5 shots given at 2, 4 and 6 months, at 18 months and again at 4-5 years of age. The first 3 shots are especially important for the baby under one year of age. If your child is behind schedule, or has not started the series, it is recommended that you have your child vaccinated. Older children often catch pertussis at school, daycare or in the community-at-large and can bring this dangerous germ home to their baby brother or sister. Last Modified: Thu Mar 22 07:57:44 2012 Counties Served | Board of Health | Site Map | About Us | Contact 