
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 23 Feb 2012 13:08:52 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Thu, 23 Feb 2012 12:08:52 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

ACR Guidelines to Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis (2002) About.com Health Arthritis & Joint Conditions Arthritis & Joint Conditions Search Arthritis Symptoms / Diagnosis Treatments Coping Share Free Arthritis & Joint Conditions Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum ACR Guidelines to Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis (2002) Advancements in Rheumatoid Arthritis By Carol Eustice , About.com Guide Updated June 22, 2008 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the Medical Review Board See More About: rheumatoid arthritis rheumatoid arthritis treatments The American College of Rheumatology (ACR) has updated its guidelines for the management of rheumatoid arthritis after just 5 years. The new guidelines, published in the February 2002 issue of Arthritis & Rheumatism , the journal of the ACR, take into account major research advancements and the development of new treatment options. Over 2 million Americans suffer with the autoimmune disease, rheumatoid arthritis. The disease, characterized by symmetric, erosive synovitis (inflammation of the joints) and in some cases, systemic involvement (inflammation of other body organs) has an unpredictable course for most patients. In spite of treatment, it is still possible for progressive joint destruction to occur, as well as deformity, disability, and premature death. The goal in the management of rheumatoid arthritis is to: prevent or control joint damage prevent loss of function decrease pain The initial steps in the management of rheumatoid arthritis are to: establish the diagnosis perform a baseline evaluation (joint pain, morning stiffness, fatigue, functional status, objective evidence of disease activity, mechanical joint problems, presence of extraarticular disease, radiographic damage, physician and patients global assessment of disease activity, quantitative assessment of pain) estimate the prognosis If the primary care physician is uncertain about any of the initial steps, the ACR strongly recommends that an evaluation be done by a rheumatologist (a specialist in arthritis and related diseases). The initiation of treatment begins with: patient education the start of DMARDS within 3 months of diagnosis for most patients the consideration of NSAIDS as part of the treatment plan the consideration of local or low-dose systemic steroids a consultation with a physical and/or occupational therapist for non-pharmacological treatment (joint protection, conservation of energy, range of motion and strengthening exercises) Patients taking DMARDS should be reassessed periodically for disease activity and toxicity of treatment. Patients on DMARDS experiencing repetitive flares, unacceptable disease activity (defined as ongoing disease activity following 3 months of maximum therapy) or progressive joint damage require consideration of changes to the DMARD regimen. DMARDS commonly used to treat RA include hydroxychloroquine (plaquenil), sulfasalazine, methotrexate , leflunomide (Arava), etanercept (Enbrel), and infliximab (Remicade). Less commonly used DMARDS include azathioprine, D-penicillamine, gold salts, minocycline , and cyclosporine. Many factors influence the selection of a particular DMARD. Initial selection of a DMARD is based on: relative efficacy convenience of administration requirements of monitoring program cost of medication and monitoring Patient factors which should be assessed in selecting a DMARD: likelihood of compliance comorbid conditions severity and prognosis of patients disease physicians own confidence in administering and monitoring the drug For many years, low cost treatment options existed for RA. With the advancements in research and the availability of newer NSAIDS ( COX-2 Inhibitors ), and the biologic agents (Enbrel, Remicade, and Anakinra ), cost consideration has become an integral part of the decision when choosing between treatment options. Efficacy and toxicity - if equivalent when comparing different treatment options, it is likely the lower cost agent will be used. Not all treatments are equivalent in response however, and a trial of the newer, more expensive drugs can be justified. What's different in the new guidelines is the issue of "how" these newest targeted drugs work, and also the issue of affordability. Source: Guidelines For The Management Of Rheumatoid Arthritis - 2002 Update Online at American College of Rheumatology Related Resources - Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Screening Quiz Test Your Knowledge - Rheumatoid Arthritis Related Resources - Rheumatoid Arthritis Signs and Symptoms of Rheumatoid Arthritis 10 Things You Should Know About Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis - Fast Facts Related Resources - Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis - Explained With Pictures Rheumatoid Arthritis Hand Gallery Rheumatoid Arthritis 101 - Free E-course Newsletter Related Articles Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatments - Recommendations for Rheumatoid Arthritis ... Rheumatoid Arthritis - Arthritis Early Treatment For Rheumatoid Arthritis - Early Treatment Helps Prevent Di... Systemic Disease in Arthritis Explained - Systemic Disease in Arthritis Psoriatic Arthritis Treatment - Guidelines for Psoriatic Arthritis Treatmen... Carol Eustice Arthritis & Joint Conditions Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches arthritis rheumatism inflammation of the joints morning stiffness systemic steroids baseline evaluation research advancements Explore Arthritis & Joint Conditions Must Reads What Is Arthritis? Symptoms of Arthritis Diagnosis of Arthritis Treatment of Arthritis Arthritis Screening Quiz Most Popular Lupus Screening Quiz Arthritis Screening Quiz Gout Diet - Foods to Avoid Rheumatoid Arthritis Screening Quiz Fibromyalgia Screening Quiz See More About: rheumatoid arthritis rheumatoid arthritis treatments By Category Types of Arthritis Joint Pain (Ankle to Wrist) Symptoms / Diagnosis Arthritis Medications Treatments / Surgery Diet / Exercise Pain Relief Natural Remedies Doctors / Insurance Disability / Money Matters Arthritis Aids Daily Living / Tips Coping Strategies / Solutions Advice / Support / Forums Arthritis Basics / Q&A Arthritis & Joint Conditions About.com Health Arthritis & Joint Conditions Types of Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis RA: Treatments ACR Guidelines to Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis (2002)> Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod