
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 01:49:31 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.roevwade.org/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

admin Posts Comments Roe V. Wade Both Sides of the Story Home About Contact Us How to Become Financially Secure: Take Risks or Play it Safe? February 28, 2012 By admin Leave a Comment One unavoidable fact of life is the need for money. It pays for your food, clothing and shelter, as well as your wants when there is money left over. This is why becoming financially secure can be such a stress relief. There are a couple of different ways to get on the path to financial security, but the best route is debatable. The choices are to play it safe with your money or to take risks with your money. Play it Safe People who play it safe have less stress in their life because they always know what to expect. They become financially secure over time by working hard and managing their money well at every turn. It is one of the most common routes to financial security. People who play it safe financially live within their means and are always looking for ways to save money. Live Within Your Means If you are going to play it safe with your money, you need to spend less than you make. This is harder than it sounds, especially if you are part of the typical middle class. Spending less than you make allows you to save money over time by investing in a retirement account for financial security when you are older. Create a budget to help you live within your means. Managing your money carefully and never splurging are the keys to living within your means. Save Money Where You Can In addition to living within your means, you can play it safe financially by always buying items at a discount. The following are some ways you can purchase items for less than their retail value. Coupons : You can find coupons for just about anything. If you are willing to spend the time to clip them and organize them, you can save a lot of money, especially at the grocery store. Promotional Codes : You can use coupons on the Internet too. Save money by always searching for these discounts before making a purchase online. Sales : Everything goes on sale at some point or another. If you can wait to buy something until there is a sale, you’ll be saving money. Second Hand Stores : Just because something is used does not mean that it is no longer good. This is especially the case with clothes. Buy in Bulk : This money-saving strategy only works if you are buying something you will actually use. Try to avoid perishable items when possible so nothing goes to waste. Look for Free Stuff : Some people just want to get rid of their old things and they don’t care about compensation. This gives you a good opportunity to save an item from going to the landfill and protect your pocketbook too. Look at local ads online for free stuff. Take Risks People who take risks with their money are more likely to become financially secure at a young age. You can’t make a lot of money if you are not willing to take the risks to get there. Financial risks also make life an adventure because the outcome is not always predictable. There are several risks you can take that can lead to financial security. For instance, you can play the stock market, invest in real estate, or play casino games. Play the Stock Market Investing money in the stock market can be very lucrative. This type of financial risk is probably one of the most common ways that people build their wealth. It takes a bit of time to see the dividends, but it is easy and only requires a little bit of time each week. Plus, you can use a stock broker to manage your investments for you. Invest in Real Estate The price of real estate fluctuates with the market, and this presents the opportunity for you to make money by purchasing properties and then selling them for a profit. It is risky because sometimes there is work that needs to be done on the property, and you have to balance the cost of repairs with the amount of profit you want to make. Not all property needs to be maintained. You can buy land as an investment and hold it for several years until the value goes up. Then you can sell it for a profit. It is a risky investment because it is hard to predict if the value of the land will rise very quickly. Gamble Another way to take risks with your money is to gamble. Some people make a decent income gambling as a living. You can also make money gambling on the Internet on websites like Craps.com. One of the best casino games for making money is Poker. If you can get good at reading other players’ tells, you can make a lot of money gambling, and become financially secure that way. The Best Route It’s hard to say whether it is better to play it safe or take risks with your money. Every person is different and has to assess their situation before deciding which route to take. The best route is probably a combination of both playing it safe and taking risks. One thing is for sure, though. No matter what route you take on the path to financial security, getting there is one of the most important goals in life. Filed Under: Finance Reconnecting With Your Birth Child July 20, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image via Wikipedia A lot of young mothers give up their children for adoption because they simply can’t see themselves doing well by their kids if they keep them. When you think your children couldn’t possibly have a good life with you, it makes perfect sense to give them away so they can have a better life with someone else. However, there are times when it may be in your best interests to reconnect with your birth child. You may want to let your child know that your family’s lineage has a particularly horrific genetic disease, or perhaps you want to be certain your child has grown up well. In some cases a mother may even want to see if they can actually have a relationship with their child, even though decades have passed. In some cases, however, there is too much bitterness in place for there to be such a realationship in the first place. Building a relationship with someone of any kind is a challenge for everyone. In some cases a grown child will be happy to meet a new family they never even knew existed. They can learn all kinds of things about themselves beyond just their genes. Family is about a lot of things, and if there isn’t a feeling of bitterness with the grown child things can get a lot better. If you want to meet your grown child, there is a great reason to at least try. At that point it comes down to whether or not they want to meet you as well. Filed Under: News , Personal Stories , Political Implications Tagged With: child , Family , Genetic disorder Should a Raped Woman Abort her Child? July 19, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image via Wikipedia Nothing in this world is black and white. Every situation has an entire rainbow of different ways to look at it. While some people only see one way or another, two ways aren’t even scratching the surface. In the case of whether a raped woman should keep or abort her child, there are a lot of ways to look at it. On the one hand, if she allows the baby that was produced by rape to live, it will benefit the cause of the rapist. One of the subliminal reasons why a rapist practices their namesake is to breed. While they might not be thinking about it at the time, having children is a supplementary result and potential goal of a rapist. When a child born from rape grows up, they will be more likely to become a rapist. It’s literally in their blood, after all. However, one could also argue that every child deserves to live just as much as anyone else does. When a child is terminated without ever even having the chance to live, no one knows what sort of things he or she might have accomplished with a life. A rapist may also be a contender for the Nobel Prize in physics, for all anyone knows. The tough part about making such a decision as this one is in how many things no one can know. While benefiting a rapist is a bad decision, punishing a child for it’s birth father’s actions is another one. Filed Under: News , Personal Stories , Pro Choice Tagged With: Abortion , Rape , Shopping Is Abortion Wrong? July 18, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image via Wikipedia Abortion is a process by which a fetus is terminated before it can be born. When a child cannot be born in the first place, the mother is free to use her resources for whatever else she wants in life. Since a woman can reproduce later on when her life is in better condition, this could potentially be a useful move on her part. So is abortion wrong? An abortion is often carried out because a woman doesn’t believe she can support or properly care for her unborn child. This belief can make a woman border on hysterics, and can lead to reduced quality in her decision making process. When it comes to making a quality decision as far as keeping her child, far too often a woman’s ability is marred when her delivery date draws near. This can lead to terminating a child despite having the ability to raise it into a productive adult. Unfortunately, there are also occasions when a woman might be well advised to discard her child but chooses not to do so. When a woman seeks resources from a government program , she may want to have additional children in order to maximize her benefits. This harms society as a whole and tends to produce dependent individuals who end up contributing very little to the world they drain. In such conditions, abortion is not only an advisable option for a preferential one. While one could call abortions murder, such operations could also be called preferential breeding. Filed Under: Pro Choice , Pro Life Tagged With: Abortion , Decision making , pregnancy High Blood Pressure and Pregnancy June 23, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image via Wikipedia High blood pressure is a medical condition that can occur in many women either before or during pregnancy. Treatment and monitoring during pregnancy is often necessary to ensure that this condition does not have negative consequence to the mother or the baby. For women who are diagnosed with high blood pressure prior to pregnancy, the condition is know as chronic hypertension. In these cases, it is often necessary to continue to remain on medication as treatment. However, the specific medication may be changed or doses altered during pregnancy to ensure that there are not negative consequences for the baby. In cases where the condition develops during pregnancy, it is usually referred to as gestational hypertension, toxemia, or preeclampsia. Treatment usually entails some form of medication to control the blood pressure during pregnancy. The specific medication will be selected by a health care professional and several options that are safe during pregnancy are available. If left untreated, this condition can cause significant problems with the mother, baby, or placenta during pregnancy. In these cases, the placenta may detach causing problems with the pregnancy. Additional complications can include seizures in the mother or the baby, slow growth in the baby, or even kidney problems for the mother. Other treatments may include bed-rest for the mother in addition to anti-hypertension medication. Kidney function and additional ultrasounds may also be requested throughout the pregnancy to monitor this condition in both the mother and the baby. This condition can cause severe complications with the pregnancy. However, if diagnosed, treated, and monitored correctly many women can go through their entire pregnancy without major problems. Filed Under: News Tagged With: Blood pressure , Hypertension , pregnancy The Psychological Side of Abortion June 9, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image by Google Images Making the choice to continue with an unplanned or unwanted pregnancy or to have an abortion can be difficult. Once the decision is made and the procedure is completed, there can be emotional side effects for women to deal with. Being aware of the possible psychological side effects can help a women to determine why she is having these feelings or can help prepare you for understanding or seeking the help needed after the fact. In some cases, someone who has an abortion can experience many different emotions. These can include guilt, anger, depression, anxiety, hopelessness, or irritability. Many of these can be contributed to some form of depression. Other women can other side effects that affect their relationship, or cause sexual difficulties, eating disorders, nightmares, flashbacks or even substance abuse. Yet other women might feel so over come by these feelings that they may try to get pregnant again very quickly to atone for the abortion and the loss of the previous child. For some, these emotional or psychological impacts can last for a short time, while in other women it may last months or even years. In more severe cases, it can develop into Post Abortion Syndrome or PAS. In most cases, all these effects can be treated with either individual or group counseling . If you are having these types of side effects, it would be beneficial to seek out support groups, or contact your doctor or clinic where you had the procedure done to get information on how to receive the support you need. Seek support and guidance to help you through this difficult time. Filed Under: Pro Choice Tagged With: Abortion , Health , Pro-choice Diabetes and Pregnancy June 1, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image via Wikipedia A common medical condition that is often addressed during pregnancy is diabetes. Two types of diabetes can occur with pregnancy. Pregestational diabetes occurs prior to the pregnancy and current treatment is adjusted if necessary for the pregnancy. Gestastional diabetes develops during pregnancy. However, many women can still have a safe and health pregnancy even with this condition. For those women who do not already have diabetes, a routine simple glucose test is usually conducted between 15 and 18 weeks of pregnancy. This test is used to determine the possible development of gestational diabetes . Should the results come back inconclusive or demonstrating problems with insulin levels in the blood stream, a longer more detailed test may be ordered. Additionally, for women who have other risk factors such as a family history of diabetes, gestational diabetes with previous pregnancy, or who are over weight, testing may occur more often or earlier in the pregnancy. Should you develop diabetes during your pregnancy, there are several treatment options available to you. Treatment possibilities include, a special diet, exercise, insulin injections, some medications that are acceptable during pregnancy, or daily monitoring of glucose levels. Usually complications for the baby occur within mothers who have pregestational diabetes. Althoughsome conditions can develop within the baby if the mother develops gestational diabetes. These include macrosomia, birth injury, hypoglycemia, or respiratory distress. Prenatal care and treatment with a medical professional will help guide you through all areas of this condition including if it develops and how to treat it and monitoring the baby, which can help to ensure a healthy and safe pregnancy for you and your baby. Filed Under: News Tagged With: Diabetes mellitus , Gestational diabetes , pregnancy How to Become an Obstetrician May 19, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Pro-life and pro-choice arguments and debates seem likely to rage until humans are born in a different fashion than they are now. Neither side’s proponents and advocates seem able to understand nor value the other side’s arguments. Many people switch sides at some point in their lives, usually after having had a life experience that changes their thinking on the matter. However, very few people accept the arguments of both sides with equal vigor, even if they’ve been on both sides of the fence at some point. Perhaps it is human nature to only see issues from one side of the fence at a time. Regardless of the side you choose, if your interest is in the human reproductive process, you may want to become an obstetrician . This requires tons of study and hard work. But having a fulfilling career as an obstetrician is well worth the effort. With that in mind, you can start by getting your master degree at earnmydegree.com. With convenient hours and scheduling, you’re likely to be able to squeeze the learning in with your other commitments, such as your employment and family commitments. So whether you want to help deliver babies or help women who decide that having a baby just isn’t the right path to follow at the moment, becoming an obstetrician can be in the cards for you. There are many opportunities to take advantage of this rewarding career path. Just be sure to find a study program that caters to your needs and has qualified instructors teaching the classes. You could be advising women on the best path to follow in just a few years! Filed Under: Personal Stories Tagged With: Obstetrics , Organizations , Pro-choice What to Know  About Teen Pregnancy May 9, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Image via Wikipedia There is more to teen pregnancy than just the end result—a baby being born to a young mother.  Consider the following: A teen pregnancy can happen when the girl’s body is still developing and growing. And, because the baby gets its nutrients from the mother, this means the mother may be deprived. This can be serious, especially because one of the nutrients is calcium, which helps bones grow. Girls need all the calcium they can get, but in a teen pregnancy , some of that is being leached away to be given to the baby. Further, pregnancy, no matter what the mother’s age, can have complications. Some of these, such as pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, can be life-threatening to adult women as well as teens, and can cause health problems down the road, for both adults and teens. A teen pregnancy means a drastic change in the teen mother’s lifestyle. Two important questions need to be answered: Will she terminate the pregnancy? If this is even an option, will she need parental consent? Can an abortion on a teen mother be performed in her state? Will she keep the baby or put it up for adoption? A good way to do this is to use TV shows that depict teen pregnancy to start a conversation. Then, you as the parent can state your opinion and listen to your teen’s. You may be surprised—simply discussing the ramifications of teen pregnancy may make your teen decide to wait until she is older to take on this responsibility. Filed Under: News Tagged With: Mother , pregnancy , Teenage Pregnancy Understanding Cerebral Palsy May 8, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment Cerebral palsy is a medical condition that usually results from brain injuries that can occur at anytime between conception and the age of three. In most cases, it is impossible to determine what caused the cerebral damage that leads to this condition. There are, however, some common traits that increase a child’s likeliness of developing cerebral palsy. Risk Factors for Cerebral Palsy Premature birth dramatically increases the chance that a baby will develop cerebral palsy. The condition can also develop during pregnancy, especially when mothers carry multiple children to term during the same pregnancy, but it is not known exactly what causes some children to experience cerebral palsy while others have normal nervous systems. In some cases, cerebral palsy is connected to events that occur during or after a child’s birth. Shaken baby syndrome, for instance, can increase cerebral palsy risk. Complications during birth can also impact the development of a child’s nervous system, leading many parents to hire one of the birth injury attorneys California has when they learn that one of their children has cerebral palsy. Treating Cerebral Palsy There isn’t a known cure for cerebral palsy, but there are numerous treatment options that can improve a person’s quality of life. Some of the treatment options commonly used include: Botox injections that reduce      spasticity Occupational therapy that      teaches patients to develop skills that make life more rewarding Speech therapy to help      improve a person’s communication Surgical options that      eliminate nerve connections or loosen tight muscles to prevent pain. Cerebral palsy can pose significant difficulties for the patient and other family members, so you should contact a medical professional to learn about effective therapies . Filed Under: Pro Life Tagged With: California , Cerebral palsy , Disease « Older Posts Categories Finance Gadgets Health News Personal Personal Stories Political Implications Pro Choice Pro Life Recent Posts How to Become Financially Secure: Take Risks or Play it Safe? Top 3 Money Health Risk Knowing Your Options After Sustaining a Personal Injury How Different Races Survive in Different Countries Moblie Sports Betting Info You Need To Know Making Decisions When Buying the Right Gadgets Financial Aid for Moms Reconnecting With Your Birth Child Should a Raped Woman Abort her Child? Is Abortion Wrong? 