
Laureate Eating Disorders Program Anorexia Nervosa Bulimia Binge Eating Self Screening Test Resources Presentations Our Difference Our Care Our Facility Our Philosophy Our Team Videos Brochures How to Visit Laureate Guest Accommodations Learn the Signs Care for Yourself and Family Admissions Health Library Health Library Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA; Arthritis, Rheumatoid) by Editorial Staff and Contributors En Español (Spanish Version) More InDepth Information on This Condition Definition Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease. It causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints. RA usually affects the same joint on both sides of the body. It occurs mostly in the: Fingers Wrists Elbows Shoulders Jaw Hips Knees Toes Rheumatoid Arthritis © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes RA is caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors that trigger an abnormal immune response. Possible causes: Genetic factors—Certain genes that play a role in the immune system are associated with RA development. Defects in the immune system can cause ongoing inflammation. Environmental factors—Certain infectious agents, such as some viruses or bacteria, may increase susceptibility to RA. Other factors—Some evidence suggests that hormonal factors may promote RA development in combination with genetic factors and environmental exposure. Risk Factors These factors increase your chance of developing RA. Tell your doctor if you have any of these risk factors: Family members with RA Sex: female Ethnic background: Pima Indians Heavy or long-term smoking Symptoms When RA begins, symptoms may include: Joint pain and stiffness that is: Symmetrical Most prominent in the morning Lasts for at least half an hour Red, warm, or swollen joints Joint deformity Mild fever, tiredness Loss of appetite Small lumps or nodules under the skin As RA progresses, it may cause complications with the: Heart Lungs Eyes Skin Liver Kidneys Blood Nervous system Blood vessels It is also linked to early cardiovascular disease and death. Diagnosis The doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history. You will also be examined. To be diagnosed with RA, you must have at least one swollen or tender joint or a history of a swollen joint. How many joints, and which joints are involved will help aid your doctor in coming to the diagnosis.  The doctor will also rule out other conditions that may have similar symptoms, like lupus or gout . To aid in the diagnosis, your doctor will order tests, such as: Blood tests to determine if you have an automimmune disease: Rheumatoid factor (RF) Anti-citrullinated protein antibody Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) C-reactive protein (CRP) Imaging tests, such as x-rays Treatment There is no cure for RA. The goals of treatment are to: Relieve pain Reduce inflammation Slow down joint damage Improve functional ability Medications There are a variety of medicines to treat the pain and inflammation of RA. In some cases, medicines may be used in combination. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDS)—to slow the course of the disease; used early in the course of the disease to prevent long-term damage: Methotrexate (eg, Rheumatrex) Hydroxychloroquine (eg, Plaquenil) Sulfasalazine (eg, Azulfidine) Leflunomide (eg, Arava) Cyclosporine (eg, Neoral) Penicillamine (eg, Cuprimine) Gold (eg, Ridaura) Minocycline (eg, Minocin) Immunosuppressive drugs (only used when other DMARDS are ineffective): Azathioprine (eg, Imuran) Cyclophosphamide (eg, Cytoxan)—rarely used Chlorambucil (eg, Leukeran)—rarely used Over-the-counter medicines: Acetaminophen (eg, Tylenol) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including ibuprofen and naproxen Biologic response modifiers—drugs that interfere with the autoimmune response; includes TNF-inhibitors, such as: Etanercept (eg, Enbrel) Infliximab (eg, Remicade) Adalimumab (eg, Humira) Golimumab (eg, Simponi) Certolizumab (eg, Cimzia) Steroids Low-dose corticosteroids (eg, prednisone ) are often used first. They may be tapered when other drugs start working.  Avoid long-term steroid use.  Corticosteroid injections to inflamed joints may also be used. Rest and Exercise Rest  reduces active joint inflammation and pain and   fights fatigue. Exercise is important for maintaining muscle strength and flexibility. It also preserves joint mobility. Joint Care Splints applied to painful joints may reduce pain and swelling. Devices that help with daily activities can also reduce stress on joints. Devices include: Zipper extenders Long-handled shoehorns Specially designed kitchen tools Stress Reduction Stress reduction can ease the difficulties of living with a chronic, painful disease. Participating in an exercise program or joining a support group are two strategies you can use to reduce stress. Cognitive behavioral therapy , a form of talk therapy, and meditation may also offer benefits in reducing your pain and improving your ability to cope with RA. Surgery Joint replacement and tendon reconstruction help relieve severe joint damage. Lifestyle Measures These may relieve stiffness and weakness and reduce inflammation: Maintain a balance between rest and exercise. Attempt mild strength training. Participate in aerobic exercise (eg, walking, swimming, dancing). Avoid heavy impact exercise. If you smoke, quit . Control weight. Participate in a physical therapy program. Prevention There are no guidelines for preventing RA. RESOURCES: American College of Rheumatology http://www.rheumatology.org/ The Arthritis Foundation http://www.arthritis.org/ CANADIAN RESOURCES: Canadian Orthopaedic Association http://www.coa-aco.org/ Canadian Rheumatology Association http://www.rheum.ca/ References: DynaMed Editorial Team. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA). EBSCO DynaMed website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php . Updated September 3, 2010. Accessed September 10, 2010. Rheumatoid arthritis. National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disorders website. Available at: http://www.niams.nih.gov/Health_Info/Rheumatic_Disease/default.asp .
        Published January 1998. Updated May 2004. Accessed June 18, 2008. Tanaka E, Saito A, Kamitsuji S, et al. Impact of shoulder, elbow, and knee joint involvement on assessment of rheumatoid arthritis using the American College of Rheumatology Core Data Set. Arthritis Rheum . 2005;53:864-871. Verstappen SM, Bijlsma JW, Verkleij H, et al. Overview of work disability in rheumatoid arthritis patients as observed in cross-sectional and longitudinal surveys. Arthritis Rheum . 2004;51:488-497. 4/16/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php : Zautra AJ, Davis MC, Reich JW, et al. Comparison of cognitive behavioral and mindfulness meditation interventions on adaptation to rheumatoid arthritis for patients with and without history of recurrent depression. J Consult Clin Psychol. 2008;76:408-421. 11/4/2009 DynaMed Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers (marketed as Remicade, Enbrel, Humira, Cimzia, and Simponi). US Food and Drug Administration website. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/SafetyInformation/SafetyAlertsforHumanMedicalProducts/ucm175843.htm . Updated August 31, 2009. Accessed November 4, 2009. 12/31/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php : Anis A, Zhang W, Emery P, et al. The effect of etanercept on work productivity in patients with early active rheumatoid arthritis: results from the COMET study. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2009;48:1283-1289. 9/10/2010 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Aletaha D, Neogi T, Silman AJ, Funovits J, et al. 2010 rheumatoid arthritis classification criteria: an American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism collaborative initiative. Ann Rheum Dis. 2010;69(9):1580-1588. Last reviewed September 2011 by Marcin Chwistek, MD All EBSCO Publishing proprietary, consumer health and medical information found on this site is accredited by URAC . URAC's Health Web 
						Site Accreditation Program requires compliance with 53 rigorous standards of quality and 
						accountability, verified by independent audits. Please be aware that this information is provided to supplement the care provided by your physician. It is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. CALL YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER IMMEDIATELY IF YOU THINK YOU MAY HAVE A MEDICAL EMERGENCY. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Copyright © EBSCO Publishing. All rights reserved. Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Support Videos Contact Us Explore our Health Library ©2012 Saint Francis Health System, All Rights Reserved. Mission