Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gastric Lap Band Procedure: 2 Types of Systems, Which Is Best & Why Unbiased. Informed. Current. Obesity Surgery Topics Surgery Types Payment Life After Find a Surgeon Share | FREE Quarterly Newsletter Bariatric Surgery Is It Right for You? Bariatric Treatment Overview Types of Bariatric Surgery How to Choose the Right Bariatric Doctors Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Obesity Cause & Effect Causes of Obesity Obesity and Genetics Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Cause and Effect of Obesity Obesity Health Problems Effects of Teen Obesity Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Complications of Gastric Bypass Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Gastric Lap Band Procedure Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Other Effective Procedures Gastric Sleeve Surgery Duodenal Switch Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Diet Before & After Surgery Bariatric Diet Bariatric Eating Techniques Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Financing & Insurance Financing Bariatric Surgery Unsecured Medical Loans Bariatric Surgery Insurance Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad Cost of Bariatric Surgery Life After Surgery Life after Weight Loss Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Weight Loss Surgery Support Groups Online Weight Loss Support Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Challenges Bariatric Surgery Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks Weight Gain after Bariatric Surgery Blood Clot Symptoms Dumping Syndrome Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources What's New? We Proudly Support... Gastric Lap Band Procedure: 2 Types of Systems, Which Is Best
& Why Reviewed by: Nick Nicholson, MD The gastric lap band
procedure, or
“Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric
Banding” (LAGB), is a relatively safe procedure that often takes less
than an hour to complete. But did you know that your doctor has two
LAGB systems to choose from? The Lap Band Procedure Lap Band Myths How does the lap
band procedure
compare to other types of bariatric
surgery? Comparing
the 2 types of
gastric banding Gastric
Lap Band Procedure Regardless of which gastric banding system you choose –
LAP-BAND® or
REALIZE™ Band – the procedure works by wrapping a silicone and Silastic
band around the top part of the stomach and sewing it into place. There
are two techniques your surgeon can use to place the band… Perigastric Technique (PGT) Pars Flaccida Technique (PFT) We won’t get into the technical details of each, but talk with your surgeon about which technique they will use.
Three separate studies have confirmed that the pars flaccida technique
(PFT) is safer and results in a lower rate of band
slippage. 1,2,3 The inner surface of the band has a balloon attached (imagine
the
inside of a bicycle tire) which is connected to a tube that leads to a
half-dollar-sized port above the abdominal muscles but below the skin.
This balloon is where saline solution will be “filled” and “unfilled”
during the recovery period until your ideal band tightness is found. Gastric banding works by making you feel full sooner (so it is
know as
a “ restrictive ”
procedure), and the entire gastric lap band procedure
usually takes about one hour to complete. YOUR Weight Loss Journey Help visitors like you by sharing your advice related to this page or other topics ... YOUR
    bariatric surgery video - recorded experiences Take a look at the following computer animated videos for a
  better
  understanding of your two gastric banding options, the LAP-BAND® and
  the
  REALIZE™ Band, and notice how similar they are (turn on your sound!)… LAP-BAND® REALIZE™ Band Actual procedure being
    performed ( click here to jump past the videos) LAP-BAND® REALIZE™ Band ( click here to skip past the actual procedure video) Actual Gastric
Banding Procedure Being Performed And click the following for
a real-life gastric lap band procedure being performed… Back
to top of Gastric Lap Band Procedure Gastric Lap Band Procedure
Myths – Fact or Fiction The "Perfect" Lap Band Fill Amount... Patient Knows Best When it comes to getting your fill "just right," trust your instincts and push back if your doctor continues to recommend fill/unfill amounts that aren't working for you. For example, some doctors insist upon adding or removing at least 0.50 cc's with each visit, but your body may require tiny 0.25 cc adjustments instead. For an interesting discussion on this topic, see this patient back-and-forth about getting a perfect lap band adjustment . “There’s little to no follow-up
care required” – FICTION - in fact,
gastric banding may require more follow-up care than all other types
of bariatric
surgery . You’ll need to see your surgeon up to 10 or more
times during
the 2 years following surgery to adjust the fill amount in your band. “The
access port can set off airport metal detectors” – DEPENDS - this
can happen, but not usually. It depends on the sensitivity of the metal
detectors and how much other metal you are carrying with you (since the
detectors will only go off if the total metal you are carrying exceeds
a certain amount). However, a metal wand will detect your port, so play
it on the safe side and carry a note or card from your doctor
identifying you as a lap band patient. “You
can’t get an MRI” – FICTION - the gastric lap band
systems contain
nothing that will prevent the safe use of an MRI. “The
super-obese (BMI at or above 50) shouldn’t
consider it” – DEPENDS - some say gastric banding is not good for the super
obese since it may result
in less
weight loss. But patients with a higher BMI have a higher risk of
complications, and lap band surgery is statistically safer than other procedures. “Lap
band is better than other surgeries because you don’t
have to
change your lifestyle” – FICTION – as with
all other procedures, if you
want to have successful long-term results a lot will need to change
after surgery. See our Life
after Weight Loss Surgery page for the
details. Back
to top of Gastric Lap Band Procedure Gastric
Lap Band Bariatric Surgery vs Other Bariatric Surgery Procedures Our Types
of Bariatric Surgery page provides a comparison of
all major
bariatric surgery procedures, but here’s a quick summary of how each
procedure’s results directly compare to the gastric lap band procedure
(click on the following procedure names for more information)… Laparoscopic
Gastric Bypass Surgery – gastric lap band
bariatric
surgery is reversible and safer in terms of major complications, but
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass results in greater weight loss, lower
reoperation rates and lower feelings of hunger following surgery. See
our Lap
Band vs Gastric Bypass page for a complete analysis. Vertical
Banded Gastroplasty (VBG) - While in some cases
the restrictive VBG procedure may be recommended, on average, gastric lap
band bariatric surgery is preferred due to similar long-term weight
loss, much fewer complications and a shorter hospital stay. Gastric
Sleeve Surgery – The gastric sleeve is better than
gastric
banding in a number of ways… more weight loss, lower feelings of hunger
after surgery and less long term incidents of gastroesophageal
reflux
disease (GERD) . However, the gastric sleeve has more severe
complications associated with it. Duodenal
Switch (BPD/DS or DS) is far better than gastric
banding in
terms of weight loss, but since the duodenal switch is the most
complicated weight loss surgery to perform, it carries with it one of
the highest complication rates and longest hospital stays. As a result,
duodenal switch surgery may be a more serious consideration for the
super obese ( body
mass index 50 or above), but the morbidly obese (BMI
from 40 to 49.9) may also be better off choosing a procedure with lower complication rates such as the gastric lap band. Mini
Gastric Bypass Surgery (MGBP) – many surgeons write
MGBP
off as
“gimmicky”, partly due to the emerging number of inexperienced surgeons
offering to conduct this toned-down version of the Roux-en-Y gastric
bypass. But in the hands of a good surgeon, research is emerging that
suggests mini gastric bypass surgery provides the results of Roux-en-Y
with the low complications of the lap band. Time and additional
research will tell. Back
to top of Gastric Lap Band Procedure The 2 Types of
Gastric Lap Band Systems & Which Is
Best 3rd Gastric Banding Option:     Realize Band C The Realize Band C has recently been introduced and has had some positive results, but for now we are leaving it off of the list. Initial research suggests it may not be as effective as the Lap Band AP or Realize Band systems. The actual equipment used in the gastric lap band procedure is
made by
one of two companies: Allergan, Inc. makes the LAP-BAND AP® Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (a
Johnson & Johnson company) makes the REALIZE™ Band So how do they compare and which is better? First, we’ll give each
company a chance to make its own case. The following links will open a
new browser window and take you to each company’s web page that
compares its product to the other: LAP-BAND AP® Differentiators REALIZE™
Band Differentiators Both present very compelling differentiators, so how do you
decide? As always, we turn to the research… Data was pulled together and analyzed from multiple separate
studies
from 1998 to 2006. 4 The
analyses included 4,273 Swedish Adjustable Gastric Band (now the
REALIZE™ Band) patients and 24,707 LAP-BAND® patients. Here are the
results… Swedish Adjustable Gastric Band (now the REALIZE™ Band) LAP-BAND® 3-Year Mean Excess Weight Loss 56.36% 50.20% Resolution of Type 2 Diabetes 61.45% 60.29% Resolution of Hypertension 62.95% 43.58% Early
mortality rates Equal to or less than 0.1% Equal to or less than
0.1% Both companies continue to improve their products, so the
percentages
are likely to be even more appealing in future studies. The bottom line is that… Despite the percentages above giving the slight edge to the
Swedish
Adjustable Gastric Band, the percentages are so close as to be almost
statistically insignificant. In other words, it’s a virtual draw. You should let your surgeon be the deciding factor. If you
move forward
with gastric lap band surgery, focus your attention on which surgeon is
best for you. Then go with whichever product he or she is most familiar
with. Hear It Straight from the Source... For Free Most surgeons offer free seminars that  teach you about your options - including why they use one type of band instead of the other - along with  their office's specific results. The seminars also allow you to get to know the surgeon prior to a one-on-one consultation (usually free as well). Click here to find and schedule an in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . You can also go to our Bariatric
Doctors & Bariatric Weight Loss Center page to learn how to
evaluate, interview
and choose the right surgeon for you. Back
to top of Gastric Lap Band Procedure New! Comments Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below. For additional research, search for your topic... Also see... Schedule a free  seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area Lap
       Band Surgery Results Lap
       Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Comparing
       Lap Band Surgery to Other Bariatric Surgery Procedures Back
to Analysis and Cost of Lap Band Surgery Back
       to Bariatric Surgery Source Home Page from Gastric Lap Band Procedure References Bueter M, Maroske J, Thalheimer A, Gasser M, Stingl T,
      Heimbucher
      J, Meyer D, Fuchs KH, Fein M (2008) Short- and long-term results of
      laparoscopic gastric banding for morbid obesity. Langenbecks Arch Surg
      393:199–205 Wolnerhanssen B, Kern B, Peters T et al (2005)
      Reduction in slippage with 11-cm LAP-BAND® and change of gastric
      banding technique. Obes Surg 15:1050–1054 O’Brien PE, Dixon JB,
      Laurie C et al. A prospective randomized trial of placement of the
      laparoscoic adjustable gastric band: comparison of the perigastric and
      pars flaccida pathways. Obes Surg 2005; 15: 820–6. Scott A.
      Cunneen. Review of meta-analytic comparisons of bariatric surgery with
      a focus on laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding. Surgery for Obesity
      and Related Diseases - May 2008 (Vol. 4, Issue 3, Supplement, Pages
      S47-S55, DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2008.04.007) [Last editorial review/modification of this page: 11/8/2011] Disclaimer: The information contained in this web site is provided for general informational purposes only. It is not intended as nor should be relied upon as medical advice.  Rather, it is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her existing physician(s). Before you use any of the information provided in the site, you should seek the advice of a qualified medical, dietary, fitness or other appropriate professional. In the spirit of full
disclosure: We proudly support this
website through advertising and affiliate ("aff") marketing. In other words,
when you click on a link that takes you outside of this website, we
sometimes earn a small commission. These small commissions allow us to keep
the site up and running and to continue offering it completely free of
charge to you. Rest assured that all content, recommendations and
advice are created before, and are independent of, any sponsorship or
affiliate relationship. Click
here for more info. Use right scroll bar to view entire site map Ask a Weight Loss Surgery Question Surgery Q & A Click Here Our community gives and receives real-life, honest and constructive feedback and advice. Sponsored Section The Bariatric Examiner: Your FREE Quarterly Newsletter Sign up now to receive important bariatric surgery news and research updates... Email Name Then We promise to keep your information private . The Bariatric Surgery Blog: FREE real-time updates Chose your favorite RSS reader below to stay up-to-date on important new content... Subscribe To The Bariatric Surgery Blog Get the BMI Calculator widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info ) WLS Blogs We Like Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Girl Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Life Coach Lap band blog posts by the Bandit Lap band surgery blog posts by Lap Band Groupie Bariatric Girl Bari Bits Lap Band Groupie at The Sweet Spot Lonicera's LapBand & Other Stories Waning Woman Who Hid the Donuts? Have a WLS blog? Contact us! Research on Obesity Obesity United States Statistics - Adults Child Obesity Statistics & Teenage Obesity Statistics How to Calculate BMI (body mass index) Free BMI Calculator (right margin of page) BMI Calculator Chart How to Calculate Body Fat Percentage Causes of Obesity (page focuses on causes) Cause and Effect of Obesity (page focuses on effect) Teen Obesity Effects Obesity and Genetics Set Point Theory Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Treatments for Obesity Obesity Discrimination Obesity Health Problems Obese and Pregnant Bariatric Treatment Is Bariatric Surgery Right for You? Choosing
 the Right Bariatric Doctors & Bariatric Weight Loss Center Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area (city/state/ country search) Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Canada Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks (mortality) Bariatric Surgery Complications (incl. risks, complications & side effects) Dumping Syndrome Blood Clot Symptoms, Prevention and Treatment Gastric Bypass Side Effects Gastric Bypass Surgery Deaths & Risks of Gastric Bypass Complications of Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Lap Band Erosion Lap Band Surgery Failure Types of Weight Loss Surgery Types of Bariatric Surgery - Overview & Comparison Bariatric Surgery Video Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery - Analysis & Cost Gastric Lap Band Procedure Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Lap Band Surgery Results Lap Band vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Duodenal Switch (Bileopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal Switch - BPD/DS) Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Experimental Weight Loss Surgery EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner Implantable Maestro System TOGA bariatric surgery system Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction (TGVR) Gastric Bypass Revision ROSE procedure StomaphyX Procedure Conversion to lap band surgery Lengthen the Roux limb Conversion to duodenal switch Bariatric Diet Bariatric Diet Guidelines Before & After Surgery Bariatric Eating - What vs How to Eat Free Online Diet Journal Reviews Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Alcohol After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric Surgery Recovery Weight & Health After Obesity Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Relationships After Bariatric Surgery Diet After Bariatric Surgery Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Support In-person Bariatric Surgery Support Online Weight Loss Support Free Diet Journal Reviews Top Bariatric Surgery Forum Options:
Gastric Bypass Forum, Lap Band Forums & Forums for Other Procedures Support from Family & Friends After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Bariatric Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Affordable Tummy Tuck Thigh Lift Plastic Surgery Financing Weight Loss Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Loan & Plastic Surgery Loans (Unsecured Medical Loans) Secured Medical Loans Cost of Bariatric Surgery Financing Bariatric Surgery & Getting the Costs Down Weight Loss Surgery Tax Considerations Bariatric Surgery Insurance (incl. DS, VBG, gastric bypass & lap band insurance) Health Insurance Appeal Letter & the Appeals Process Medicare Bariatric Surgery Coverage Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad (medical travel / medical tourism) Free weight loss surgery (charity care & government assistance) Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery BSS Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery How to Get the Most Out of Bariatric Surgery Source What's New? About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources Weight Loss Surgeon Directory Pages United States Weight Loss Surgeons Canada (Bariatric Surgery Canada) Alabama (Alabama Weight Loss Surgery) Alaska (Alaska Weight Loss Surgeon) Arizona (Bariatric
      Surgery Arizona) Arkansas (Weight Loss
      Surgery in Arkansas) California
      - Northern (Northern
        California Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Bay Area - Alta Bates California
      - Southern (Bariatric
        Surgery Southern California) Bariatric Surgery Los Angeles - Dr. Korman Weight Loss Surgery Los Angeles - CBGSA Colorado (Colorado
      Weight Loss Surgery) Connecticut (Weight Loss
      Surgery Connecticut) Delaware (Weight Loss Surgery in Delaware) District of Columbia (Washington D.C Weight Loss Surgery) Florida (Bariatric Surgeons Florida) Georgia (Bariatric Surgery in Georgia) Hawaii (Hawaii Weight Loss Surgeon) Idaho (Idaho Weight Loss Surgery) Illinois (Illinois Bariatric Surgery) Indiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Indiana) Iowa (Iowa Bariatric Surgery Clinics) Kansas (Weight Loss Surgery in Kansas) Kentucky (Weight Loss Surgery in Kentucky) Louisiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Louisiana) Maine (Weight Loss Surgery in Maine) Maryland (Bariatric Surgery Maryland) Massachusetts (Bariatric Surgery in Massachusetts) Michigan (Bariatric Surgery Michigan) Minnesota (Bariatric Surgery Minnesota) Mississippi (Weight Loss Surgery in Mississippi) Missouri (Weight Loss Surgery Missouri) Montana (Weight Loss Surgery in Montana) Nebraska (Weight Loss Surgery in Nebraska) Nevada (Weight Loss Surgery in Nevada) Gastric Bypass Surgery Las Vegas & Lap Band Surgery Las Vegas - Dr. Teng New Hampshire (Bariatric Surgery in New Hampshire) New Jersey (Bariatric Surgery New Jersey) Weight Loss Surgery New Jersey - Dr. Feteiha New Mexico (New Mexico Weight Loss Surgery) New York (New York Weight Loss Surgery) New York Bariatric Surgery - The Center for Metabolic & Weight Loss Surgery North Carolina (North Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) North Dakota (North Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Ohio (Bariatric Surgery Ohio) Oklahoma (Bariatric Surgery in Oklahoma) Weight Loss Surgery in Oklahoma - Dr. Gornichec Oregon (Oregon Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Oregon - Dr. Patterson Pennsylvania (Pennsylvania Weight Loss Surgery) Rhode Island (Rhode Island Weight Loss Surgery) South Carolina (South Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) South Dakota (South Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Tennessee (Bariatric Surgery Tennessee) Tennessee Gastric Bypass Surgeons - Dr. Boyce Texas (Weight Loss Surgery in Texas) Weight Loss Surgery Houston Lap Band Surgery Dallas TX - Dr. Kim Bariatric Surgeons Dallas - Dr. Kuhn Houston Bariatric Surgery - Dr. St. Laurent Utah (Utah Weight Loss Surgery) Vermont (Weight Loss Surgery in Vermont) Virginia (Weight Loss Surgeon in Virginia) Washington (Bariatric Surgery Washington) Washington, DC (Washington D.C Bariatric Surgery) West Virginia (West Virginia Weight Loss Surgery) Wisconsin (Bariatric Surgery Wisconsin) Wyoming (Wyoming Weight Loss Surgery) Home | Types of Bariatric Surgery | Qualification for Bariatric Treatment | Financing Bariatric Surgery & Insurance Life After Weight Loss Surgery | Find a Bariatric Surgeon Copyright © 2008-2012  Bariatric Surgery Source | Privacy Policy | Forum Policy | Advertising  Policy | Disclaimer | Advertise Resources | About Us | Advisory Council | Contact Us | RSS This site complies with the HONcod