
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 24 Mar 2012 09:03:26 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

slow -  DOObiz DOO.biz Lekomat Marketplace - slow Main slow Most popular: slow Most linked: slow Most respected: slow Pain Treatment Apparatus - Medicobot Improve Health Electro Acupuncture Device and Medicomat Pain Treatment Apparatus - For All. Lekomat apparatus cures obesity and other disorders. The device works on the principle of acupuncture, and improvements are felt after only a day or two. Treating obesity, stomach ulcers, gastritis, poor circulation, high blood pressure, diabetes, sciatica, headaches, migraines, depression, dizziness, insomnia. 

Knowing the cause is essential to treating infertility and acupuncture is a good start. The focus will be on three vital organs and they are kidney, spleen and liver as they have a direct bearing on the reproductive organs. Traditional Chinese medicine concentrate on these three organs and acupuncture will directly impact the reproductive organs through the treatment of these three organs. Herpes Simplex Treatment and Pain Treatment Apparatus - Medicobot World. World Health Organization Recommendations - Eye Disorders: Acute conjuctivitis Cataract (without complications) Myopia Central retinitis; Disorders of the Mouth Cavity: Toothache Pain after tooth extraction Gingivitis Pharyngitis. 

There are already many devices that can weigh and acupuncture points on the basis of determining the condition of individual Rogan. Electroacupuncture diagnosis is the best preventive diagnostics. In China, there are centers that can utvditi that will develop the disease over the next three years. Acupuncture has entered a new phase of application equipment. Migraine Medications and Pain Treatment Apparatus - Medical Automat Lekomat. Investments in their own health - for home therapy device Lekomat. This appliance has won the gold medal at the world exhibition in Brussels Eureka, and Markonijevu medal for the innovation. Lekomat a combination of traditional Chinese medicine and modern Japanese computer technology. Because of its exceptional properties it holds, is called the Home Clinic future. 

apparatus Home treatment is all I LEKOMAT, fully automatic, finds all the disturbances and automatically selects the appropriate acupuncture points for treatment by which migraine. It is used 2-3 times a day for 20-30 minutes. Usually 2-3 treatments are sufficient for 7 days, and treatment of chronic illness takes longer. 

Acupuncture is one of the key components of the system of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) . In the TCM system of medicine, the body is seen as a delicate balance of two opposing and inseparable forces: yin and yang. Yin represents the cold, slow, or passive principle, while yang represents the hot, excited, or active principle. Among the major assumptions in TCM are that health is achieved by maintaining the body in a balanced state and that disease is due to an internal imbalance of yin and yang. This imbalance leads to blockage in the flow of qi (vital energy) along pathways known as meridians . It is believed that there are 12 main meridians and 8 secondary meridians and that there are more than 2,000 acupuncture points on the human body that connect with them. 

Visit the site http://lekomat.org , it lets you expirience pain and disease relief in the comfort of your own home. Medicomat a fully automatic apparatus for home cure, alternative therapy, pain treatment and healthcare at hom