Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Evidence Summary: Wound Packing 3 October 2007 Evidence Summary: Wound Packing Evidence Summary Author: Barbara James RN BA(Hons) MA Summary What is it? Deep wounds can occur through surgery, injury or ulcers. 1 Deep wounds need to heal from the base of the wound upward. Packings are moist materials that sit inside the wound. They are there to: •	prevent the skin from closing over before healing has completed in the tissue underneath. •	to provide a moist environment for the healing to occur. •	to absorb discharge. 2 How do you know if the wound is healing well? When the dressing is being changed you and the nurse will naturally be interested in seeing and inspecting the wound for any changes in condition. Features to pay attention to are: •	the size, shape and depth of the wound •	presence of deeper holes (sinuses) •	type of tissue in the wound bed •	type and amount of discharge •	signs of infection. •	any factors that may delay healing of the wound 1 . What type of packing is needed? Light packing keeps the wound edges clean and separated, maintains good drainage and allows the base of the wound to heal. 3 What is the best type of preparation to use? There are a large number of preparations and wound dressings available. The following have had good results in trials: 1.	Honey. One study comparing the healing of abscess wounds with honey and eusol reported quicker healing and shorter length of hospital stay in patients treated with honey. 4 Honey is recommended for the dressing of infected wounds, more so in tropical countries, where it is most readily available. 2.	Silver containing ointment (AtraumanAg). This is a modern silver-containing ointment that kills bacteria and other microbes with less damage to the cells than other silver containing dressings. 5 3.	Vacuum pressure. With vacuum or subatmospheric pressure, chronic swelling is reduced, leading to increased blood flow to the area which improves healing of the wound base. 6 What are the disadvantages of some types of packing? Foam dressings are unsuitable for wounds that contain deeper holes or pockets as the foam can become trapped when the wound heals around it. Hydrogels can lead to a break down of the wound's edges if there is too much discharge. 7 The evidence suggests… Despite numerous advances, chronic and other difficult-to-manage wounds continue to be a treatment challenge. Both old (honey) and new (silver ointment and vacuum pressure) treatments report good results. Please note: This is a summary of research evidence undertaken by the Joanna Briggs Institute in order to provide you with reliable information regarding wound packings. Consumers with concerns about their condition should seek medical advice. We strongly recommend all of the information contained in this evidence review be carefully reviewed with your health care provider. References 1.	Pudner R. Managing cavity wounds. JCN. 1998;12(3):22-28. 2.	Walsh K. Decision making in the care of cavity wounds. Professional Nurse. 1996;11(9):593-8. 3.	Benbow M. Cavity wound management. Community Nurse. 1999;5(7):33- 4. 4.	Okenyl JA, Olubanjo OO, Ogunlesi TA, Oyelami OA. Comparison of healing of incised abscess wounds with honey and EUSOL dressing. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine. 2005;11(3):511-3. 5.	Ziegler K, Gorl R, Effing J, Ellermann J, Mappes M, Otten S. Reduced cellular toxicity of a new silver-containing antimicrobial dressing and clinical performance in non-healing wounds. Skin Pharmacology. 2006;19(3):140-6. 6.	Argenta LC, Morykwas MJ. Vacuum-assisted closure: a new method for wound control and treatment: clinical experience. Annals of Plastic Surgery. 1997;38(6):563-76. 7.	Jones M, Davey J, Champion A. Dressing wounds. Nursing Standard. 1998;12(39):47-52. JBI Le