
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 15:25:16 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-1ubuntu9.5
Set-Cookie: lsi=6436656564326139643837366137393661646131366339613732616539626162393761306338616362333934396661333761393535656138613661623936363961373661; expires=Sun, 01-Apr-2012 15:25:16 GMT; path=/; domain=.laserspineinstitute.com
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: kohanasession=6gkdksqdg9l72ql79dlf8127q0; expires=Sat, 03-Mar-2012 15:25:16 GMT; path=/
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

How to Treat Lower Back Pain (866)362-7574 Home Laser Spine Institute Laser Spine Institute's minimally invasive procedures are the safe and effective alternative to open neck or back surgery. Our revolutionary endoscopic surgical techniques are proven to help patients return to their normal, active lifestyles. Every month, more people come to Laser Spine Institute for help in relieving their neck and back pain than to any other spine surgery center in the world. Conditions Spine Conditions All Spinal Conditions Arthritis of the Spine Spine Articles Bulging Disc Herniated Disc Pinched Nerve Sciatica Spinal Stenosis Spine Conditions A to Z Annular Tear Arthritis of the Spine Bone Spurs Bulging Disc Canal Stenosis Collapsed Disc Conditions Resources Degenerative Disc Disease Degenerative Joint Disease Degenerative Spine Disc Extrusion Disc Protrusion Facet Disease Facet Syndrome Failed Back Surgery Syndrome Foraminal Narrowing Foraminal Stenosis Herniated Disc Herniated Nucleus Pulposus (HNP) Pinched Nerve Prolapsed Disc Ruptured Disc Sciatica Slipped Disc Spinal Narrowing Spinal Stenosis Spondylitis Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis Torn Disc Procedures Endoscopic Spine Procedures There are many spinal conditions that are treated at the Laser Spine Institute. All procedures are uniquely designed and developed to provide patients with the best possible medical care. More on endoscopic spine procedures Procedures Overview Foraminotomy Facet Thermal Ablation Laminotomy Percutaneous discectomy Spinal fusion alternative About LSI About Laser Spine Institute About LSI Why LSI LSI Doctors Physician Relations Tricare Patient Services Department (PSD) Pain Management Careers LSI History Testimonials Laser Spine Institute has amazing care with miraculous results.I am pain free at last and looking forward to once again living a full life. Learn More Surgery Outcomes Am I a Candidate What is my condition Free MRI Review Streamlined Process Newsroom All FAQs Spinal Glossary Spine Exercise Videos Free Seminars What is minimally invasive spine surgery and can this procedure help you?You can get these answers by attending a Free Educational Seminar. Seminar Overview Upcoming Seminars What to Expect LSI Doctors Laser Spine Institute Doctors The physicians at Laser Spine Institute care about you and your condition. More about our doctors and medical staff View Laser Spine Institute Doctors Contact Contact Us Contact Us Toll Free at: (866)362-7574 Submit a Contact Form Request Contact Request Locations Overview Addresses - Map Entire Site Conditions Treated Treatments Offered 1- 866-249-1627 Contact Laser Spine Institute Request MRI Review Medical Consulation You are here Home » Spine Conditions » How to Treat Back Pain » Treat Back Pain » Treat Low Back Pain Treatment Treatment Articles How to Treat a Herniated Disc Treat a Herniated Disc Stiff Neck Treatment How to Treat a Bulging Disc Treat a Bulging Disc Treat Bulging Discs How to Treat Arthritis Arthritis Back Treatment Arthritis Neck Treatment How to Treat a Pinched Nerve Pinched Nerve Back Treatment Pinched Nerve Neck Treatment How to Treat Degenerative Disc Disease Degenerative Disc Disease Treatment How to Treat Spinal Stenosis Stenosis of the Spine Treatment How to Treat Sciatica Treat Sciatica Pain Exercises Treat Sciatica Treating Sciatica How to Treat Back Pain Treat Back Pain Treat Lower Back Pain Treat Back Strain Treat Low Back Pain Treat a Back Injury Treat a Sore Back Back Muscle Treatment Back Spasms Treatment Chronic Back Pain Treatment Chronic Low Back Pain Treatment Upper Back Treatment Back & Neck Treatment Spine Treatments Spine Treatments Spine Compression Treatment Lumbar Spine Treatment Advanced Technologies Advanced Technologies Laser Back Treatment How to Treat Lower Back Pain Lower back pain has myriad sources; whether due to injury, age-related wear and tear, or illness, lower back pain can be anything from inconvenient and uncomfortable to debilitating and life-changing. Only after establishing the cause will your doctor know how to treat lower back pain. Conservative Treatment Options When first receiving a patient’s complaint about lower back pain, doctors will normally embark on a conservative, non-invasive treatment plan . There are three main reasons for this: first, most common back injuries and ailments will respond well to such treatment; second, it is difficult to ascertain what is causing lower back pain since the symptoms are so common: pain, loss of mobility, numbness, tingling; and third, back surgery is a viable option only for a small percentage of people with lower back pain, and even for them the success of surgery is dependent on many variables. Thus, the most likely treatment regimen for sufferers of lower back pain will include: Application of heat and/or cold to alleviate pain and swelling Rest, and perhaps immobilization, if movement is too painful Use of pain medication and/or anti-inflammatory drugs Physical therapy Changes in lifestyle A return to exercise and normal movement as soon as it is approved by the doctor For lower back pain patients who stick faithfully to such a plan, the chances are good that their condition will improve – particularly for those who include the right kind of exercises. Even herniated discs often heal themselves, given enough time. Most doctors recommend conservative treatments before exploring surgical options, as conservative treatments like the ones listed above normally work well. Lumbar Spine Conditions You may find that, after a lengthy and diligent attempt at conservative treatment, your lower back pain has not improved. At this point, your doctor might consider surgery a viable option. If this is the case for you, look into Laser Spine Institute (LSI). At LSI, we use the most innovative technology to perform revolutionary, minimally invasive spine procedures to correct the most common spine conditions, including: Herniated disc Bulging disc Sciatica Stenosis Facet disease Click Here to see how you can get your life back in 5 days Our team of expert spine surgeons has performed laser-assisted endoscopic spine procedures for tens of thousands of patients, many of whom were able to return home the same day. Contact Laser Spine Institute today for more information and to receive a free review of your last MRI or CT scan. Please note: Laser Spine Institute currently does not perform endoscopic procedures on the thoracic spine. Contact Laser Spine Institute CONTACT US Contact us today to have your questions answered. Phone Best Time to Call 8am - 10am 10am - 12pm 12pm - 2pm 2pm - 4pm 4pm - 6pm 6pm - 8pm anytime Have you been in pain for 6 months or more? Yes No Have you seen an orthopedic or neurosurgeon who has recommended that 
                                    you have surgery to correct your condition? Yes No Have you had an MRI or CT scan in the last 5 years? Yes No Privacy ABOUT TRUST ONLINE versión en español Connect With Us! Laser Spine Institute makes the Inc. 500/5000 list for 2010! In 2010, Inc. Magazine honored Laser Spine Institute with inclusion in its 500/5000 list of  the fastest-growing, private companies as determined by number of employees and  revenue growth over the last three years. Laser Spine Institute ranked No. 1,140 overall and No. 82 in the healthcare category. Spine Condition Treatments Spinal Stenosis Treatment Bulging Disc Treatment Pinched Nerve Treatment Herniated Disc Treatment Arthritis of the Spine Treatment Bone Spur Treatment Foraminal Stenosis Treatment Spine Surgery by Condition Spinal Stenosis Surgery Bulging Disc Surgery Pinched Nerve Surgery Herniated Disc Surgery Foraminal Stenosis Surgery Arthritis of the spine surgery Bone Spur Surgery Spinal Procedures Foraminotomy Laminotomy Endoscopic Discectomy Spinal Fusion Alternative Facet Thermal Ablation Patient Resources Patient Success Stories LSI Doctors Five Day Process Why Choose LSI Spine Glossary LSI Community Careers Facebook Page Twitter Laser Spine Institute Blog Copyright ©2012 