
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 20:42:29 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
Cache-Control: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 20:42:29 GMT
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Femtone - A Set of Vaginal Weights for Kegel Exercises Special Offers! Women's Embarrassing Women's Bestsellers Women's Health & Ailment Women's Beauty Secrets Women's Sexual Wellness Sex Toys for Women Men's Embarrassing Men's Bestsellers Men's Health & Ailments Men's Grooming Products Men's Sexual Health Sex Toys for Men Embarrassing Advice Order Help Shipping Info Ask Mister Private Home > Women's Embarrassing > Femtone - A Set of Vaginal Weights for Kegel Exercises Femtone - A Set of Vaginal Weights for Kegel Exercises Item code: G177-3720 Share: List: $149.99 Shop In Private: $124.78 (You Save 17%) Weight = (21) oz. Shipping Info Video:  Privacy Is Our Promise To You. A great kegel exercise solution Strengthens vaginal muscles 5 cones of varying weight Instructional DVD Femtone vaginal weights tone pelvic floor muscles to protect against incontinence, and can increase the strength of your orgasms! These vaginal "barbells" are the perfect product for kegel exercises. Get this hard-to-find kegal exerciser at ShopInPrivate.com. FemTone Vaginal Weights
are weights that are used during Kegel exercises. FemTone Vaginal
Weights are a set of five reusable, tampon-like, sterile cones
of identical size and shape but of increasing weight. FemTone weights, when
used during Kegel exercises (the contraction of the pelvic floor muscles),
have been found to strengthen the pelvic floor and may improve
urinary continence. Many women who utilize Vaginal Weights see
marked results in trying to overcome incontinence. The FemTone
Vaginal Weights are market leaders in this category. Vaginal weights act
 as a training aid to Kegel exercises. These weights help women
 identify and exercise the appropriate muscle groups responsible
for maintaining continence. By exercising these muscles many women
have found they can overcome incontinence. We have just been informed that this product was mentioned on the Oprah show.  Many Urologists, Gynecologists, and Sex Therapists recommend vaginal cones to restore lost muscular condition in the pelvic area.  We certainly welcome all of Oprah's viewers to ShopInPrivate.com.  We are working hard to fill your orders quickly and (of course) privately. Please note that due to the nature of this product it is not returnable. Frequently Asked Questions About Femtones Vaginal Weight Cones Here are some frequently asked questions
about Femtone Vaginal Weights: What are Femtone Vaginal Weights? Femtones are a set of 5 vaginal cones
of varying weights. These vaginal cones are designed to be used
to assist a woman with Kegel exercises. Kegel exercises are designed
to improve the tone of the pelvic floor muscle and provide improvements
to problems of incontinence and sexual function. Why would I want to improve the tone
of my pelvic floor muscle? After childbirth some women notice a
difference in the condition of the pelvic area. 1 in 4 women will
suffer from some for of incontinence related to pelvic floor condition.
This incontinence is described as the inability to hold your urine
until a convenient time. Improving the tone of the pelvic floor
muscle can restore the ability to hold your urine when you cough,
sneeze, laugh, or strain. Are there other reasons to improve
the tone of my pelvic floor muscle? Yes. Some women find that improving
the tone of the pelvic floor muscle restores lost sensation to
their lovemaking. Sometimes a degree of sensation is lost after
childbirth. Femtones vaginal cones can restore some of this lost
sensation by improving the muscular development of the pelvic
floor. How long does it take to see results
from using Femtones? Typically, patients will see results
after 3 months of using Femtones. Some patients notice a reduction
in leakage after 6 weeks or so. I am ** years old, are Femtones for
me? Women as young as 30 and as old as 70
have problems with stress related incontinence. Stress related
incontinence is described as the inability to hold your urine
when you cough, sneeze, laugh, or strain. Femtones can help these
women by identifying and strengthening these muscles. Why should I use Femtones and not
just try Kegel exercises on my own? This is an excellent question. Some
patients have great results with just trying Kegel exercises on
their own. Others have trouble determining if they are exercising
their pelvic floor muscle or their abdominal muscle while attempting
Kegel exercises. When you use Femtones properly they will travel
inward due to the contraction of the pelvic floor. If you contract
you abdominal muscles, the Femtone weight will travel in the opposite
direction letting you know that you should change your form. Femtones
also come in five different weights so that you can exercise with
varying levels of resistance. What are the five weights? We have been asked this one. There are
not specific weights, they are just numbered. #1 is the lightest,
number 5 is the heaviest. They are all the same size. What are femtones made of? The vaginal cones are made from a special combination of alloys surrounded by a double welded plastic case.
They are smooth with a plastic coated retrieval cord. What comes with the Femtones weights? Included are the five Femtone weights,
and a case to hold them.  We have tried to compensate for a lack of instructions with this web page. Why are Femtones expensive? Femtones are built to the strict requirements
of medical equipment. These items are sold under review
of the FDA and have been approved as medical equipment. They are
made with the finest materials available and are made in limited
quantities. Are Femtones available in a store
near me? We are not certain of every other retailer
of these items, we do know that there are not many retailers that
currently carry this product. Your OB/GYN might know of a local business that sells them. Many Gynecologists
send their patients to us to purchase Femtones. Click here to see a short video that may answer any other questions about Femtone Vaginal Weights. Your Initials: Review: Stars: 5 4 3 2 1 You are shopping at the world's most private store. We feature an unusual and effective mixture of products and information to solve embarrassing problems privately. Every aspect of Shop In Private is completely private. From browsing, to buying, to shipping and delivery, this is the world's most private store. Shop In Private Home | About ShopInPrivate - The World's Most Private Store | Order Help | Affiliate Program | Index | Show Cart Embarrassing Items for Women | Women's Ailments | Women's Beauty Secrets | Sexual Wellness  for Women | Sex Toys for Women Embarrassing Items for Men | Men's Ailments | Men's Personal Grooming Products | Sexual Health Products | Sex Toys for Men Copyright ©2012 ShopInPrivate.com - The World's Most Pri