
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 02:18:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze8
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 02:18:07 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Aloe Vera Gel Juice | Anarres Natural Health Tracey TieF is a Certified Natural Health Practitioner. Hypnotherapy for Health, Natural Contraception, Custom & Retail Body Products & Perfumes and Weekly DIY Workshops. About Anarres Clinic hours Hypnotherapy Services Store What Revolution? Workshops Search Upcoming events HOT DOCS!!! (Event) (Now) Mamalicious! Fun to Make, Safe Recipes for Mother and Baby Workshop  NOW at Anarres! (Event) (22 hours) Tree Tenders Training - Join Me! (Event) (2 days) Order 1176 pick up (Event) (4 days) Tree Tenders Training - Join Me! (Event) (4 days) Tree Tenders Training - Join Me! (Event) (6 days) more Navigation Q&A Recent posts Subscribe (RSS) User login Username: * Password: * Create new account Request new password Home → Catalog → DIY Supplies Aloe Vera Gel Juice Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice, produced in Canada Aloe Vera is well respected for its application as a moisturizing agent. It contains vitamin B complex, folic acid, vitamin C and carotene (a precursor of vitamin A). It is used in soaps, creams, lotions, and other cosmetics. There are more than 360 members of the aloe genus, which is part of the lily family. Aloe is also known as: bitter aloes, burn plant, Cape aloe, Curacao aloe, elephant's gall, hsiang-dan, lily of the desert, lu-hui, socotrin aloe, Venezuela aloe, Zanzibar aloe. History * Aloe was first cultivated for pharmaceutical use in the 1920s * Aloe is used globally, from traditional healers in southern Africa to herbalists in China * The Egyptians used aloe, and drawings of it appear on the walls of ancient tombs and temples * It is said that Alexander the Great conquered the Greek Island of Socotra to gain control of the aloe crops The primary source for these aloe facts is: "An In-Depth Look at the Most Popular Herbs Found in Oral Care Products", by Leslie Andrews, RDH, MBA and Ann Eshenaur Spolarich, RDH, PhD This Aloe Vera gel juice is a thin liquid that I use in my Candy Cane Mouthwash. It is safe for direct application to the skin, but should not be confused with a gel. It is also important to note that like all natural juices without preservatives, Aloe is unstable. It can spoil and become contaminated with microorganisms if not properly stored and used in combination with essentials oils, grapefruit seed extract or Vitamin E. Common Uses: Aloe vera is a natural antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, analgesic and moisturizing agent commonly known as a "First Aid" plant. Apply to minor burns, sunburns and surface cuts (but not deep wounds). In Candy Cane mouth wash and toothpastes, aloe soothes and helps heal sensitive gum tissue. Aloe is used in dentistry in a variety of applications: for wound healing, to reduce pain and speed healing of canker sores, and to treat the site of tooth extractions. Shelf Life: 2- 3 years. Please ensure that product is kept cool so as to extend the shelf life. Aloe Vera Gel Juice is sold by the 100ml. This is the bulk price without a container. You will need to bring in your own bottle to the clinic or buy a bottle here: http://www.anarreshealth.ca/node/214 Reused amber glass bottles from the clinic cost $1. Price: $1.40 Quantity: Submitted by anarres on Fri, 2009/01/30 - 1:42pm. Tags: DIY Supplies » Login or register to post comments Copyright Tracey TieF 2011.
Please write for permission to reproduce any part of this website, credit me and link to this site. Anarres is a private practice and online store in Toronto, ON. 1.5 blocks from Ossington subway on Dovercourt Rd N of Bloor. You can order online and contact to pick up. (416) 53