Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

A Cut In Time? Circumcision & Hiv Infection bookmark article email 
              article A CUT IN TIME? CIRCUMCISION & HIV INFECTION SARID, December 17, 2006 The excitement generated by new data showing that circumcision  can halve the rate of HIV infection in heterosexual men unfortunately trumped  the UN’s more cautious response. Two major trials were carried out among 4,996 HIV-negative  men between 18 and 24 in Rakai, Uganda and 2,784 in Kisumu, Kenya. The results,  announced on December 12 by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH),  revealed a 48 per cent reduction in infection in the Ugandan study and 53 per  cent in the Kenyan one. Both trials were terminated early when preliminary data  showed that medically performed circumcision — the surgical removal of the  foreskin of the penis — to be safe and effective at reducing HIV infection. This outcome confirms a South African study published last  year that showed a 60 per cent reduction in HIV infection among circumcised  men. The new numbers support what doctors and campaigners have suspected and  hoped for several years. Scientists say circumcision may decrease the  transmissibility of HIV because removing the foreskin eliminates the type of  immune cell that particularly attracts the virus. Though these results have major implications for the fight  against the AIDS pandemic raging in Africa and Asia, five UN agencies - the  World Health Organization (WHO), UN Population Fund, Joint UN Programme on  HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), UN Children's Fund and the World Bank - said circumcision  should never replace other known, effective preventive methods and should be  considered as part of a comprehensive prevention package. "Circumcised men can still become infected with the  virus and, if HIV-positive, can infect their sexual partners," they  emphasized in a joint statement on December 14. The UN points out that circumcisions were performed by  skilled medical professionals during the trials, with those treated receiving  aftercare in case of complications. The agency fears the new report will  trigger a booming trade in adult male circumcision among those who have no  medical qualifications, with potentially harmful consequences. There is also evidence contradictory to the new data. Some  researchers have found either no effect or more HIV in circumcised males.  Negative reports on the circumcision-HIV link are less likely to be published  mainly because journals regard studies with positive results "more  interesting". Other factors contributing to HIV infection were the  presence of other sexually transmitted diseases, female circumcision, viral  load, socio-economic-cultural differences, and most importantly, unsafe health  care. The positive outcomes for circumcision in preventing HIV  infection shown by the most recent trials does not explain the paradox of the  United States of America (USA), where the HIV incidence rate is 3.5 times  higher than that of the closest advanced industrialized nation. The high  incidence of adult male circumcision (approximately 77 percent) in the US did  nothing to prevent the spread of this infection. These conclusions suggest that attempts to control HIV by  imposing universal circumcision are unlikely to be successful and that  advocating better public health education regarding these issues would be more  appropriate. “Whether circumcision status plays a role in HIV risk or  not, it is important to recognize that HIV can be prevented through several  known very effective means, such as condom use, and limiting exposure to  multiple partners. Rather than advocating circumcision, given the existing  evidence, it would be appropriate to advocate better public health education,  so that individuals can make appropriate decisions regarding their own sexual  behavior.” CIRP UNAIDS announced that a further trial to assess the impact  of male circumcision on the risk of HIV transmission to female partners is  underway in Africa with results expected in 2008. India has 5.7  million people living with the AIDS virus, the highest number in the world,  though a recent study says it may be less than half of that. Sources: Agencies, Circumcision Information &  Research Pages ( http://www.cirp.org/ ),  Science & Development Network ( http://www.scidev.net ). Copyright 
        2003-06 | SARID | 675 Mass Avenue, Cambridge, MA 