
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 13:31:21 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.bariatriclearningcenter.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Bariatric Learning Center - Bariatric Surgery News and Updates Bariatric Learning Center Bariatric Surgery News and Updates Home About Articles Glossary Resources Disclaimer Privacy Policy UK Weight Loss Surgery Clinics Opened by Bodycraft – Two London Locations February 10, 2012 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved Patients undergoing weight loss surgery in the UK will have some additional options soon. Bodycraft Weight Loss, a surgery provider based in London, recently announced that it is expanding its operation in 2012. The company has opened additional surgery centers to accommodate the ever-rising number of patients seeking these procedures. The new clinics will offer [...] Filed Under: Surgery Centers Teens Lack Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery January 2, 2012 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved Obese teens may find it hard to get insurance coverage for weight loss surgery. Coverage for teens under the age of 18 is often hit or miss. Some insurance companies offer it. Others don’t. Flip a coin. This is in stark contrast to the broad coverage offered to adults these days. Over the last ten [...] Filed Under: Surgery News Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery: The Real Story September 23, 2011 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved For several years now, bariatric surgeons have been touting weight-loss surgery as a treatment for type 2 diabetes. Some claim it’s a way to reduce the symptoms of diabetes in obese patients — or even reverse the condition entirely. In this article, I will attempt to separate the facts from fiction. Here’s what you need [...] Filed Under: Obesity Oregon Pays for Some Weight Loss Surgery July 25, 2011 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved How would you like it if your tax dollars went toward an obese person’s weight loss surgery? I guess if you were on the receiving end of the coverage, you would like it just fine. This will soon be happening in the state of Oregon, where government health officials have decided to bankroll some forms [...] Filed Under: Surgery News Study: Weight-Loss Surgery Safe for the Mildly Obese? March 1, 2011 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved Each year, it seems the spectrum of weight-loss surgery patients grows wider. Not too long ago, this type of surgery was limited to people who were morbidly obese. These were folks who were likely to die from their obesity-related conditions. Today, weight-loss surgery is being used on just about anyone. Bariatric surgeons are always clamoring [...] Filed Under: Obesity News Knoxville Bariatric Surgeons Earn ASMBS Certification December 26, 2010 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved A pair of bariatric surgeons in Knoxville, Tennessee have earned certification from the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS). Founded in 1983, the ASMBS is a professional organization made up of surgeons. The organization’s stated goal is to improve care and treatment for people with obesity and related diseases. Dr. K. Robert Williams [...] Filed Under: Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgeons Lobby the FDA for Broader Use of Lap Band December 7, 2010 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved The bariatric surgery industry (and let’s be honest, it is an industry) wants more people to qualify for Lap Band surgery procedures. An “advisory committee” led by bariatric surgeons wants the FDA to broaden its guidelines for this procedure. In short, they want permission to conduct Lap Band surgery for patients with a body mass [...] Filed Under: Lap Band Surgery Bariatric Surgery Study for Patients with Heart Failure November 17, 2010 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved A recent study, presented at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions 2010, found that morbidly obese people with heart failure (HF) can benefit from bariatric weight-loss surgery. The study suggested that patients will enjoy various improvements of HF symptoms after having such surgery. The researchers studied the post-surgery results of 13 patients who underwent bariatric [...] Filed Under: Surgery News MGM Employees Gain Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery November 16, 2010 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved Insurance coverage has always been a hot topic within the field of bariatric weight-loss surgery — and sometimes a bone of contention, as well. Insurance companies (always trying to minimize their coverage costs) argue that weight-loss surgery is an elective procedure that should not be covered by a policy. Doctors and patients, on the other [...] Filed Under: Surgery News New Link Between Gastric Bypass and Birth Defects November 6, 2010 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved The presentation was titled: Neural Tube Defects: An Unforeseen Consequence of Gastric Bypass Surgery in Young Female Patients? It was presented at the 2010 conference of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). According to the presentation, female patients who undergo gastric bypass surgery for weight loss may have a higher risk of bearing children with [...] Filed Under: Gastric Bypass « Older Posts Search the Site Recent News UK Weight Loss Surgery Clinics Opened by Bodycraft – Two London Locations Teens Lack Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery: The Real Story Oregon Pays for Some Weight Loss Surgery Study: Weight-Loss Surgery Safe for the Mildly Obese? Knoxville Bariatric Surgeons Earn ASMBS Certification Bariatric Surgeons Lobby the FDA for Broader Use of Lap Band Sponsored Links Bariatric Vo