
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 02:37:34 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Melatonin Extra 3mg plainherb.com Get Well - Stay Well The Reynolds Office of Health Santa Barbara, California, USA Serving the Natural Health Community since 1985 Over 500 Nutritional and Other Health-Related Products Home / Blog About Us Services Education Supplements Equipment Behold the turtle, who makes progress only when he sticks his neck
out. - Alan Cohen - Sue Reynolds, M.S.W. Master Herbalist Updated
April 7, 2012 Google Translate Share this page with others! Hyperbaric Oxygen Air Oasis UV Purifier Nature's Sunshine DaVinci Laboratories Supplements Recommended by Leading Doctors How is Your pH? Siberian Chaga Mushroom Liquid Zeolite Helps Remove Toxins Real Food Nutrition and Health Online Course The information provided on this site is for educational purposes and not for diagnosing or treating disease.
If you are experiencing a serious health condition, please consult a qualified health professional. Twitter Updates Follow Us! Melatonin Extra 3mg Sleep aid to reset your body clock. Melatonin is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland. Quantities decrease as we age. Our melatonin comes from non-bovine sources. Category: Vitamins, Minerals, and Phytonutrients Body System: Nervous System Stock# Quantity Retail Wholesale Purchase 2830-4 60 count $22.45 $14.95 Learn How to Qualify T r a d i t i o n a l     U s e s Sleeping Aid Sleeplessness (occasional) P r o d u c t     D e t a i l s Melatonin is a natural sleep aid that helps your body establish healthy sleep patterns.  We offers two varieties of melatonin, Melatonin (1 mg) and Melatonin Extra (3 mg).  Melatonin is not only a powerful antioxidant that benefits the immune system, melatonin also plays important roles in the aging process and production of energy. Melatonin is a hormone that is naturally produced by the pineal gland at night.  The aging process decreases the amount of melatonin produced by the body and supplementation may be necessary.  Our Melatonin's are all-natural, non-addictive supplements beneficial for promoting deep sleep. In fact, melatonin supplements are also helpful for jet lag and occasional insomnia. Benefits Helps promote the body’s natural sleep rhythm. Helps you feel more alert and rested after a night’ s sleep. May help fight jet lag. Possesses antioxidant properties and may benefit the immune system. Our Product Advantage Melatonin Extra is derived from non-bovine sources and blended with selected herbs and nutrients that offer additional support to the brain and the glandular system. Ingredients Melatonin Extra (3 mg) contains 3 mg of melatonin plus 30 IU of vitamin E, Siberian ginseng root, and ginkgo biloba leaves and concentrate. Recommendations take one capsule of Melatonin (1mg) or Melatonin Extra (3mg) 30 minutes before sleep. Complementary Products Nutritional: Hops (250 mg) , Kava Kava (Concentrate) , Chamomile (250 mg) , Valerian Root (410 mg) , Valerian (Time-Release) , Herbal Sleep (HVP) Homeopathics: Distress Remedy Homeopathics: Chamomile, Roman , Lavender Fine AOC User Care Melatonin should not be given to children, teenagers, pregnant women or lactating women. Contact Us for More Information Email: [Go to Top of Page] Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, Air Oasis, Hair Analysis, Herbs, Aromatherapy, and Nutritional Supplements 