<http://www.treatmentforbacterialvaginosisguide.com/?p=758>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

does yogurt cultures work to cure bacterial vaginosis? - Home About BV Straight Talk Treatment For Bacterial Vaginosis | Our Review Of BV Straight Talk 3 Steps To Permanent Bacterial Vaginosis Relief Contact Us Privacy Policy Site Map Terms & Conditions Subscribe via RSS does yogurt cultures work to cure bacterial vaginosis? Sunday, October 10th, 2010						at
						5:23 am I’ve read on various sites about using the plain yogurt or capsule/tablets to cure BV. Has anyone tried it? How to get the capsules in there and dissolve? Here’s where I heard of it, was hoping someone here had actually tried it. http://ezinearticles.com/?Did-You-Know-That-Yogurt-Helps-Bacterial-Vaginosis?&id=486501 http://health.yahoo.com/ency/healthwise/hw53097/hw53194 Tagged with: amp • bv • health • plain yogurt • yahoo Filed under: Treatment For Bacterial Vaginosis Q&A's Like this post? Subscribe to my RSS feed and get loads more! Comments RSS Feed TrackBack URI 8 Comments Michaelangelo says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a common condition of the vagina caused by an overgrowth of various bacteria (germs). It is not just a simple infection caused by one type of bacterium. The main symptom of BV is a vaginal discharge. BV is the most common cause of vaginal discharge in women of childbearing age. The discharge is often a white-grey colour, and often has a fishy smell. The smell may be most noticeable when having sex. The discharge tends to be heaviest just after a period, and after having sex. The discharge of BV does not usually cause itch or soreness around the vagina and vulva. Many women with BV do not have any symptoms (up to half of cases). These women may be found to have BV by chance when vaginal swabs are taken for other reasons. Note: BV is not the only cause of a vaginal discharge. Various conditions can cause a discharge. For example, the second most common cause of a discharge is due to thrush which is an infection caused by a yeast called candida. Unlike BV, thrush typically causes a thicker white discharge which tends to cause itch and soreness around the vagina and vulva. Human Studies From Four Different Hospitals Four human clinical trial studies in four different hospitals have been completed to date, including 124 patients. The studies were designed to test the oral use of the product (at 10 ppm) to treat 18 different human ailments and diseases.  In these studies there were no failures, and almost all patients were deemed as fully recovered in less than one week. The studies included ailments such as: upper respiratory tract infections, eye infections, ear infections, urinary tract infections, sore throats, abdominal pain and diarrhea, bronchitis, vaginal yeast infections, external cuts, gonorrhea, pelvic inflammatory disease, various mouth problems, retro viral infections, Malaria, etc. The product was found to be so effective that the country of Ghana approved the product as an antibiotic-alternative drug. Cutie Pie says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am yogurt is good for the yeast infections not the bacteria ones you need to see a doctor if you or anyone you know have the bacteria infection those lead to urinary tract infections and those can be painful. sorry, my grandma worked at a hospital Mayflower1601 says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am Yogurt helps with YEAST infections.BV, as you know. is a bacterial vaccine. Quite different. For example, a yeast infection  can occur after being on an antibiotic,sometimes even with frequent intercourse. A yeast infection is usually white,thick cottage cheese appearance, itch, with a slight or no odor.. BV usually has a fishy odor and the discharge is thin, milky and yellowish/slight greenish discharge. I guess depending on your symptoms, you’ll know if it’s yeast or BV. If it’s BV, then you need to contact your doctor and have medication prescribed to you IE: Metrogel. Good Luck!! agatha_amber says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am It does work for yeast infections,  if you do it as soon as you feel the symptoms,but i’m not sure about bacterial vaginosis.  It’s about balancing out the natural bacteria in our system.  It should be plain yogurt. honeybaby729 says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am I also don’t think yogurt will help with BV. I’ve actually read that hydrogen peroxide helps eliminate BV. See this link: http://www.gentlebirth.org/archives/vagInfections.html I thought about using hydrogen peroxide in there the other day, and figured I do a search to see it it’s safe, and wooo laaa! blue eyes says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am Yogurt is used to treat yeast– not bacteria. Only your doctor can prescribe medication to clear a bacterial infection. loudondale says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am I have never heard of yogurt or yogurt culture tabs curing bacterial vaginosis.  I have heard of it using yogurt to cure vaginal yeast infections, however.  Bacterial vaginosos is  caused by introduction of bacteria not native to the vagina into the vagina where they grow and can cause a discharge and foul odor.  It can also cause PID (pelvic inflammatory disease) if not treated appropriately with antibiotics. vaginal yeast is caused by the candida yeast bacteria that occurs naturally in the vagina along with many other "critters" that occur there naturally and usually all live in harmony until something happens to change the natural balance.  Taking antibiotics for other problems (such as ear infections, urinary tract infections, skin infections, etc.) can kill off many of the naturally occuring bacteria that help keep the yeast in check (like cats keep rats under control).  When the yeast gets over populated then you have what is called a "yeast infection" with cottage cheesy discharge and some really bad itching.  This can be treated sometime in the earlier stages with yogurt; by eating yogurt or douching with yogurt (or dissolved yogurt culture tabs).  It is more commonly treated, however with preparations like monistat or clotrimazole cream or suppositories (which can be bought over the counter at your local pharmacy) or diflucan pills (which are sold by prescription). debbie_dundas says: October 10, 2010 at 5:23 am I’ll tell you ,I have had bv for the last three years.I would get it and then go on anti-biotics and be cured till the next month.This went on for 3 years,finally a friend told me to start taking grapefruit seed extract capsules and acidolphilus daily, bought at a health food store,I also did a candida cleanse,and I am happy to say I have had no problems for the last three months.This really works,try it! Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Get Rid of Bacterial Vaginosis Views BV Straight Talk Treatment For Bacterial Vaginosis | Our Review Of BV Straight Talk 3 Steps To Permanent Bacterial Vaginosis Relief - 5,423 views Is it ok to use monistat 3 to treat bacterial vaginitis? - 2,197 views Will Ciprofloxacin clear up bacterial vaginosis? - 1,534 views Can A Pap Smear Check For Bacterial Vaginosis? - 1,433 views Can a man carry and spread gardnerella? - 1,382 views If you have bacterial vaginitis does your partner need to be treated? - 1,379 views Vaginitis Aguda – Candidiasis Vaginal Cronica Tratamiento – Candida Albicans Vaginal Tratamiento - 1,291 views When taking lactobacillus acidophilus for bacterial vaginosis, how long does it take to take effect? - 1,280 views If a woman has vaginitis and cervicitis can they test men for the bacteria? - 1,120 views My girlfriend has vaginitis what should i do? - 1,034 views Recent Posts Bacterial Vaginosis Freedom Review Can a new born baby be born with Gardnerella Vaginitis Infection? Cure Bacterial Vaginosis Naturally ???? Curas Naturales Para La Vaginosis Bacteriana – Alto Vaginitis Bacterial Chronic Vaginitis Safe bacteria similar to those causing vaginitis? Vaginal Lubrication Bacterial Vaginosis Cure what is vaginitis and how does it differ from other genital conditions? Garlic as a Bacterial Vaginosis Treatment How Effective is Garlic for Getting Rid of Recurrent BV Categories Treatment For Bacterial Vaginosis Articles Treatment For Bacterial Vaginosis Q&A's Treatment For Bacterial Vaginosis Videos Uncategorized Recent Comments ehblessu on Can a new born baby be born with Gardnerella Vaginitis Infection? Beautiful on Can a new born baby be born with Gardnerella Vaginitis Infection? tanya_hanna67 on Can a new born baby be born with Gardnerella Vaginitis Infection? rachellynn200 on Can a new born baby be born with Gardnerella Vaginitis Infection? yodeladyhoo on Can a new born baby be born with Gardnerella Vaginitis Infection? BV Resources Best Natural Tretment For BV Treatment For BV – CDC Treatment For BV – MedicineNet Treatment For BV – Wiki Archives January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 Get Social Follow Us On Twitter Copyright © Powered by Flex