
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 08:05:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.com.au - Education - Acupuncture Points - KI3 (Kidney 3) The Basics Q & A Library Find a Practitioner Professional Resources Professional Community About Acupuncture What can Acupuncture do for me? How does Acupuncture work? What conditions can be treated? What is involved in a treatment? What is the cost? Library Home Asthma Diabetes Fertility Fibromyalgia Low Back Pain Menstrual Pain Migraine Muscle Strain Neck Pain Osteoarthritis The history and theory of Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Meridian Pathways Acupuncture Points Directory Acupuncture Indications Search The Zang Fu Organs and Syndromes Chinese Herbal Therapy Ear Acupuncture and Auriculotherapy Reference Books ACNM Nanning Internship Members Area Practitioner Discussion Forum Media Gallery Monthly Newsletter News, Research and Articles Events Calendar Acupuncture Courses Live RSS Newsfeeds Free 250mb Email Make a contribution KI3 (Kidney 3) - Acupuncture Point Information Chinese Name : Taixi English Name : Great Creek Location : Midway between the medial malleolus and the Achilles tendon. Nature: Shu-Stream of the Kidney channel, Yuan-Source point of the Kidney channel. Functions: Reinforces the Kidneys, reinforces the Kidney Yin, invigorates Yuan Qi and Yang, clears heat, subdues Yin Xu heat, strengthens the low back and knees, rectifies the uterus. Primary Indications: Sore throat, haemoptysis, irregular menses. Secondary Indications: Toothache. Tertiary Indications: Deafness/tinnitus, asthma/cough, diabetes, insomnia, seminal emission, impotence, urinary frequency, pain in low back, paralysis of lower limb, constipation, breast abscess, dark yellow urine, cardiac pain, cold limbs, thirst/sticky mouth, neuraesthenia, uterine diseases, cold shan. Other Indications: Nephritis, cystitis, enuresis, alopecia, pain in the sole of foot, dizziness, spasms of diaphgragm, infantile convulsions, chronic malaria, kidney disease, heat disease with copious sweating, severe emaciation; dyspnoea and coughing fits, severe jaundice, vomiting abundant glairy mucus, vomiting, diarrhoea, pain in abdomen and flanks, branching fullness in the chest and lateral costal region, pulmonary empyema, damp itch and sores on the inside of the thigh, pruritis. References: This information is from the book Acupuncture Point Dynamics and has been used with permission from the author John McDonald. View other points on the Kidney channel: ( KI1 , KI2 , KI3, KI4 , KI5 , KI6 , KI7 , KI8 , KI9 , KI10 , KI11 , KI12 , KI13 , KI14 , KI15 , KI16 , KI17 , KI18 , KI19 , KI20 , KI21 , KI22 , KI23 , KI24 , KI25 , KI26 , KI27 ) [Click here to return to the complete Acupuncture Points Listing] [Click here to return to the Kidney Meridian chart] Acupuncture.com.au | About | Community | Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | We support The Coomera Busines