
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 22:55:47 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Valerian - eMedicinal.com Home Herb Database Valerian Tuesday, February 14, 2012 Home Forum Herbal Links Newsletter Search About Us Contact Us Store Herb Database Herb Database Disease Database Herbal Forumulas Herbal Articles Herb & Medicinal Resources Search eMedicinal.com Advanced Search Herb Database Browse the Herb Database A thru A Wei B thru Butternut C thru Cypress Powder D thru Dyeberry E thru Eye Root F thru Fragrant Water Lily G thru Gum Plant H thru Hyssop I thru Ivory Plum J thru Juniper K thru K'u-tou L thru Lu-ts'ao M thru Myrtle N thru Nosebleed O thru Oxadoddy P thru Pyrethrum Q thru Quick-set R thru Rutland S thru Sycamore T thru Tzu-mo-lo U thru Uva Ursi V thru Virgin's Bower W thru Wycopy X thru Xiao-hue-xiang Y thru Yu-zhu Z thru Zanzibar Pepper Top 10 Herbs  Searched For 1. Jordan Almond 2. Linden Flower 3. Saw Palmetto 4. Aloe Vera 5. Ginseng 6. Black Cohosh 7. Bilberry 8. Feverfew 9. He shou wu 10. St. John's Wort Herbs From Home! Sign up for our herbal newsletter! Name: Email: Send Page To a Friend! Share the wealth of herbal knowledge! Please click below to send this page to your friends! Valerian Valeriana officinalis L. Valerianaceae Valerian family Common Names Parts Usually Used Plant(s) & Culture Where Found Medicinal Properties Biochemical Information Legends, Myths and Stories Uses Formulas or Dosages How Sold Warning Common Names All-heal American English valerian (grown in the US) Blessed herb Capon's tail English Valerian Garden heliotrope German valerian Great wild valerian Heal-all Heliotrope Setwall Tagara (Sanskrit name) Vandal root Vermont valerian Wild valerian Back to Top Parts Usually Used Dried root, rhizome Back to Top Description of Plant(s) and 
Culture Valerian is a tallish plant with clusters of pink or, less commonly, white flowers.  A perennial grows to 4-5 feet. Leaves strongly divided, pinnate with lance-shaped leaflets; lower ones toothed.  Tiny, pale pink to whitish, tubular flowers, grow in three-forked terminal heads in tight clusters; each flower has a small, inrolled calyx at the base; as the fruits form, calyces become feathery parachutes.  Blooms June to July. V. officinalis bears pinkish-lavender or pinkish-white flowers; V. rubra, red; V. cocinea, deep red.  Partial shade. Zones 4-9. Other varieties: Native Americans used 2 different herbs that were both called valerian.  Valerian: tobacco root (V. edulis) the Nevada Paiutes called "Gwee-ya" and the Northern Paiutes called "Ku-ya." And valerian (V. septentrionalis) the Blackfeet used as a hot drink from the roots for stomach trouble. Back to Top Where Found A native of damp woods, roadsides, and riversides.  Quebec, Maine to New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio to Minnesota.  Native of Europe. Do not confuse valerian with Lady's Slipper which is often called American valerian, although both herbs are said to produce similar therapeutic action. Back to Top Medicinal Properties Calmative, antispasmodic, nerve tonic, nervine, sedative, anodyne, and carminative, aromatic, emmenagogue Back to Top Biochemical Information Active components are called valepotriates.  Valerianic, formic and acetic acids, essential oils, resin, starch, a glucoside, and 2 alkaloids (chatrine and valerianine). Back to Top Legends, Myths and Stories Like many botanicals, valerian has a long history.  Named the "Valium of the 19th century," although chemically unrelated to Valium, is recognized worldwide for the relaxing effect it has on the body.  Often, in Europe, it is prescribed to treat anxiety.  Valerian does not taste very good, but it has few unpleasant side effects and is not addictive; unlike prescription drugs in the United States such as Valium and Xanax.  When Valium is taken together with alcohol, the 2 drugs tend to greatly exaggerate each other's effect on the body.  Valium is a synergistic drug in that respect and tends to exaggerate serious side effects as well.  For centuries valerian has been the treatment of choice by herbalists when treating panic attacks or nervous tension. Valerian has a curious effect on some animals.  Cats become frisky on smelling it, and an oil prepared from valerian and aniseed is used by gypsies to quell unfriendly dogs.  Horses, too, are known to like its scent, as are rats and mice, for whose benefit it was once used as a bait in traps. The common name of valerian is heal-all, which comes from the Latin word valere, meaning to be well.
It is believed valerian is the spikenard referred to in the Bible as a perfume brought from the East. Valerian has a distinctive, rather unpleasant smell, and was aptly called phu by the Greek physician Galen.  In recent years, it has been well researched, with chemicals called valepotriates developing in valerian extracts.  These seem to depress the nervous system, and the fresh plant is more sedating. Back to Top Uses Used for hypochondria, nervous headaches , irritability, mild spasmodic affections, diarrhea , epilepsy, migraine headaches , croup , hysteria, convulsions, vertigo, nervous cough, delirium, neuralgia , muscle cramps , gas pains, stomach cramps, spasms, palpitations, gas, colic , depression , panic attacks, emotional stress , PMS , menstrual cramps , despondency, insomnia . Research has confirmed that teas, tinctures, and/or extracts of this plant are CNS-depressant (central nervous system), antispasmodic, and sedative when agitation is present, but also a stimulant in fatigue; antibacterial, antidiuretic, liver-protective.  Valerian is a leading over-the-counter tranquilizer in Europe. A nerve tonic has a relaxing effect and even euphoric effect on the system, although too much of it brings about the opposite result. A marvelous remedy for fevers .  Will often clear a cold overnight.  Good for expelling phlegm from throat and chest .  Will expel worms when everything else fails.  Excellent for shortness of breath and wheezing .  Tea can be used as an enema for pinworms and tape worms and externally as a wash for sores , wounds , chronic skin diseases, and pimples . If taken too often or in excessive doses, however, it can cause headaches, spasmodic movements, or hallucinations. Back to Top Formulas or Dosages Harvest in the fall. Do not boil the root. To obtain the maximum benefit take 1 tbsp. of fresh juice daily.  The latter is often prescribed as a cure for insomnia, where its great value is that it calms the mind without having a narcotic effect. Non-addictive. Drying roots is different from drying leaves.  Roots should be dried at a high temperature, such as 120 degrees F. until the roots are brittle.  If they are rubber-like, they should be dried longer.  Store roots after drying to keep free from moisture. Infusion: steep 1 tsp. root in 1 pt. boiling water.  Take cold, 1 cup per day, or when going to bed. Cold extract: use 2 tsp. roots with 1 cup water; let stand for 24 hours and strain.  Take 1/2 to 1 cup when going to bed. Tincture: take 20 drops on sugar or in water, 3 times a day. Back to Top How Sold Valerian roots are grown commercially and used in proprietary medicines in Europe.  Other valerians are not generally used in herb medicine. Capsules: take 1 or 2 a day. Extract: mix 10 drops in liquid daily. Tincture: take 1 to 2 tsp. in a glass of water. Back to Top Warning Valerian should not be used for more than 2 to 3 weeks at a time, as it may then be harmful or become addictive.  Large doses or extended use may produce symptoms of poisoning.  In extremely high doses, it may cause paralysis and a weakening of the heart.  Take the tea twice daily, for no more than 2-3 weeks at a time without a break, as continual use or high doses may lead to headaches and palpitations.  Do not exceed the recommended dose.  Use under medical supervision. Valerian enhances the action of sleep-inducing drugs, so avoid if taking this type of medication. Do not confuse with the garden plant, red "American" valerian (Centranthus ruber) which has no medicinal properties. Back to Top Home Forum Herbal Links Newsletter Search About Us Contact Us Product Reviews: Acai Berry Detox | Acai Berry Bliss | Acai Cleanse | Acai Pure | Acai Berry Tropic | Acai Slim | Extreme Acai | Medical Hair Restoration © 1997-2005 eMedicinal.com | Privacy Policy | Caution Disclaimer | Sitemap Sign up for our newsletter or recommend us today! IMPORTANT UPDATE: Lose Up to 25 Pounds in 25 Days with Acai Berry! 3X