Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Colitis herbal treatment | ayurvedic treatment for colitis and ulcerative colitis Colitis and Ulcerative colitis Herbal Ayurvedic Treatment for Colitis What is Colitis? Colitis is generally used to describe inflammatory diseases of the lower intestine. It includes Crohn's disease and chronic ulcerative proctitis. Ischemic colitis refers to an inflammatory intestinal condition that affects the elderly. Ulcerative colitis is one of the most serious forms of colitis in which tiny ulcers and other inflammations develop in the colon and cause bloody stools or diarrhea. Ulcerative Colitis requires close medical attention. Ulcerative colitis is usually diagnosed in young adults but can occur at any age. It may also be associated with other disorders such as eye problems and arthritis. Ulcerative colitis tends to recur and the risk of colorectal cancer increases after 8 to 10 years. Who can get affected by colitis? Colitis affects upto 2 million people in the US. It can affect men and women, young and old. Colitis generally develops in people while in the teens although it can start during childhood as well. It is most common in the US, England and Northern Europe. People of Jewish origin are most vulnerable while people of African descent are least likely to get it. Ulcerative colitis is rare in Asia, South America and Eastern Europe. However it is now also being observed in developing countries giving rise to the notion that as diets move away from traditional whole grains toward processed foods, the body's digestive system starts to suffer. What are the symptoms of Colitis? Severe abdominal pain Persistent diarrhea with blood or pus in the stool Bowel movements or diarrhea in the night Low fever Loss of appetite Fatigue weight loss The symptoms of ulcerative colitis depend on the severity of the disease In mild cases, there can be up to 4 loose bloody stools a day which may temporarily relieve abdominal pain Moderate cases may bring 4-8 bloody stools every day along with low fever and weight loss In severe cases, there will be more than 6 bloody stools or diarrhea daily and also during the night. There will be fever of 100F or higher and symptoms of anemia It is important to call your doctor if You have constant pain and high fever as you might have toxic megacolon You have bleeding from the rectum with clots of blood in the stool You have heavy diarrhea What causes colitis? The inflammation in colitis is actually a defense mechanism of the body. While normally immune cells are activated if the body is exposed to foreign substances such as bacteria, viruses etc., in colitis, the immune cells of the intestine are activated even when there may be no infection present.   While nothing has been proved conclusively, the causes of colitis have been ascribed to Eating a highly processed diet without adequate roughage. Chronic use of laxatives Bacterial and parasitic infections such as salmonella poisoning Certain antibiotics such as amoxicillin, ampicillin, cephalosporins, chloramphenicol, chlindamycin, lincomycin, penicillin,tetracycline or trimethoprim. When the drugs are discontinued, colitis symptoms disappear. Herbs that help in colitis treatment and relieve inflammation Triphala Turmeric Boswellia Ashwagandha Triphala aids in strengthening the digestive tract and aiding in smooth bowel movements. Turmeric, Boswellia and Ashwagandha are well known anti-inflammatory herbs. They have been shown effective in treating conditions such as colitis, crohn's disease, arthritis and other diseases marked by pain and inflammation What are some natural ways to treat Colitis? Avoid dairy products Squeeze garlic into foods as that helps in stimulating antibacterial action Omega-3 fatty acids from fish and flaxseed oil are also helpful. Powdered psyllium in cold water followed by another glass of water will help to give stools more bulk It has been shown that Boswellia helps reduce the immune cells that promote inflammation while increasing the number of immune cells that inhibit inflammation. In studies of patients with inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, boswellia reduced gastrointestinal inflammation and tissue damage. In fact the combination of boswellia with ashwagandha is considered the best ayurvedic remedy for inflammatory diseases. Turmeric taken in capsule, powder or raw form is also an excellent remedy for ulcerative colitis and ulcerative proctitis. You may also be interested in reading on Irritable Bowel Syndrome and natural treatments You may also be interested in reading on Crohn's Disease treatment with ayurvedic herbs Herbal remedies for Colitis Triphala For IBS and digestive disorders Ashwagandha Relieves Stress and inflammation Boswellia Reduces inflammation, helps in digestive disorders Secure Shopping FREE SHIPPING WORLDWIDE!!! FREE Herbal Samples Share | Home | Contact Us Customer Service Health Condition Acidity ADD and ADHD Alzheimers ARMD Arthritis Arteriosclerosis Ascites BPH Bleeding gums Blood Pressure Bronchitis Bursitis Cirrhosis Coughs & Colds Colitis Constipation Cholesterol Crohns Disease Dental problems Depression Detoxification Diabetes Digestion Enlarged prostate Erectile dysfunction Fatigue Fatty Liver Female Fertility Flu Gingivitis Gout Haemorrhoids Headache Heartburn Heart Disease Hepatitis Hormonal Balance Hypertension Infections Insomnia IBS Joint Pain Kidney Stones Liver Problems Macular ARMD Male Fertility Menstrual Problems Menopause Memory Obesity Osteoporosis Parkinsons P.A.D Peptic Ulcers Piles Prostate problems Rheumatoid Arthritis Sinus Sperm count Stomach Acidity Stomach Ulcers Synovitis Stress Relief Tendonitis Ulcerative Colitis Urinary Tract Vaginitis Varicose Veins Weight Loss NEW PRODUCTS M2-Tone Hyponidd Alsarex Sumenta Liver Health Liv.52 World's #1 Liver Care Formula Weight Loss Ayurslim Blood Sugar Diabecon Hyponidd Karela Gymnema Joint Care Rumalaya Forte Rumalaya Gel Boswellia Reosto Ashwagandha Amrutanjan Heart Health, Blood Pressure & Circulation Abana Arjuna Garlic Guggul Neem Cholesterol Guggul Abana Arjuna Garlic Garcinia Digestive Tract Health Triphala Herbolax Alsarex Boswellia Ashwagandha Detoxification & Cleansing Purim Liv52 Triphala Neem Turmeric Sexual Health & Fertility Shilajit Gold Shilajit Speman Shatavari Ashwagandha Confido Female Health, Fertility & Hormonal Balance M2-Tone Shatavari Hyponidd Menosan Reosto V-Gel Male Fertility Speman Confido Shilajit Gold Himcolin Gel Ashwagandha Kidney & Urinary Tract Health Cystone Punarnava Prostate Health Himplasia Brain Functions, Memory Bacopa Mentat Sumenta Stress Relief, Sleep, Relaxation Geriforte Ashwagandha Tulasi Valerian Anti-Aging, Immunity, Rejuvenation Amalaki Geriforte Chyawanprash Septilin Turmeric Spirulina Guduchi Rectal and Vein Health Pilex Pilex Ointment Skin Health Purim Neem Amalaki Turmeric Oral & Dental Health Dental Cream Hiora Shine Toothpaste Hiora K Toothpaste Gel for Mouth Sores Herbal Ayurvedic Products LOWEST PRICES ONLINE FREE SHIPPING Herbal Health Care Abana...Cardio Health Alsarex...Acidity Amalaki...Vitamin C Amrutanjan...Occasional Pain Arjuna...Heart Health Ashwagandha...Stress Relief Ayurslim...Weight Loss Bacopa...Brain Health Bitter Melon...Blood Sugar Boswellia...Joints Health Brahmi...Brain Functions Chyawanprash...Immune Health Confido...Male Fertility Cystone...Kidney Urinary Dental Cream Diabecon...Blood Sugar Garlic...Coronary Garcinia...Lipids Geriforte...Rejuvenation Gotu kola...Brain, Nerves Guduchi...Immune Support Guggul...Cholesterol Gymnema...Blood Glucose Herbolax...Constipation Himcolin Gel...Erections Himplasia...Prostate Health Holy Basil...Stress Relief Hyponidd...Sugar, Ovary Health Karela...Blood Sugar LiverCare Liv52 M2-Tone...Female Fertility Mandukaparni...Brain, Nerves Menosan...Menopause Mentat...Memory Neem...Blood Purifier Neem Guard...Skin care Pilex...Rectal Health Pilex Ointment...Rectal care Punarnava...Urinary, Kidney Purim...Skin Health Reosto...Bone Health Rumalaya Forte...Joint Health Rumalaya Gel...Joint Care Septilin...Immunity Speman...Fertility Shallaki...Joints Shatavari...Female Fertility Shilajit Gold...Sexual Strength Shilajit...Rejuvenation Spirulina...Immune Health StressCare...Rejuvenation Sumenta...Mental Calm Triphala...Detox, Digestion Tulasi...Stress Relief Turmeric...Healing, Purifying Vasaka...Respiratory Valerian...Sleep, Relaxation V-Gel...Vaginal Health Herbal Oral Care Dental Cream Hiora K Toothpaste (for sensitive teeth & gums) HiOra Shine Toothpaste (for whitening teeth) HiOra SG Gel (for soothing mouth sores) Herbal Hair Care Amla Powder...Hair/Skin care Hair Loss Cream...Hair Growth Neem Powder Protein Shampoo...Dry Hair Protein Shampoo...Greasy Hair Protein Shampoo...Normal Hair Henna Powder...Hair, Tattoos Shikakai Powder...Hair Care Herbal Skin Care Acne Pimple Cream Amla Powder...Hair/Skin care Anti Wrinkle Cream Deep Cleansing Milk Face Moisturizing Lotion Fair & Lovely Ayurvedic Cream Fullers Earth...Skin Conditioner Himalaya Under Eye Cream Medimix Soap...Skin Care Neem Face Pack Neem Powder Purifying Mud Pack Walnut Scrub Skin Exfoliante Vicco Turmeric Cream Body Art Henna Cones Henna Powder Bindis Kumkum Quick Links About Us Contact Us Customer Service Shipping Info FAQs Promotions Secure Shopping Checks/Money Orders in US$ Get our FREE NEWSLETTER: FEATURED ARTICLE Hypertension Natural Remedies Abana helps in normalizing blood pressure Home | About Us | Contact Us | Customer Service | Promotions | Articles | Blog | Testimonials | Newsletters | Terms of Service Copyright © 2007-2012 FavorFinesse.com. All rights reserved. Designated trademarks and brands are the property of their respective owners. We are not in any way affiliated with the manufacturers of the products and have not evaluated products or claims made about products on or through this site Disclaimer: The products and the claims made about specific products on or through this site have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. The information provided on this site is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional or any information contained on or in any product label or packaging. The information on this site should not be used for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. Please view our full Terms Of Service Agreement for more information and the terms and conditions governing your use of this site.