Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Did you know you can control the causes-reasons and cure hot flashes with 
laughter and endorphins? Controlling 
      Menopause Hot Flashes with Laughter . Menopause Products | Hormone 
      Replacement Therapy | Menopause Symptoms | Perimenopause Symptoms | Prempro | Controlling Hot Flashes .| Premarin | Natural Hormone Replacement | Progesterone Cream | Menopause FAQ | Home Home 
        remedies for hot flashes | Herbal remedy for hot 
        flashes | Treatment for hot 
        flashes night sweats | Controlling hot flashes | Hot Flashes - What Are They? | Control Hot Flashes with 
        Laughter. Ways to Control Menopause Hot Flashes, and Reduce Stress with 
        Laugher and Other Common Sense Tips . Do hot flashes make you laugh? I 
          don’t think so. But what if I told you that laughing could help 
          control hot flashes? Really? Controlling hot flashes is possible just 
          by having a good laugh. How is this possible when some doctors tell you that controlling hot 
          flashes is a matter of taking some potentially deadly synthetic hormone like Premarin or Prempro? 
          There are other ways to control hot flashes with natural progesterone 
          cream, but the Federal Trade Commission is busy making sure that women 
          have fewer choices by hounding manufacturers and distributors out of 
          existence. So laughing seems like a good, natural, home remedy for the 
          most annoying of menopause symptoms. Diosgenin cream ingredients | Benefits diosgenin cream | How to use diosgenin cream . | Return to Eden Diosgenin (nicknamed Progesterone) Cream. Do you remember our newsletter 
      last year detailing how Wyeth Pharmaceuticals was attempting to stop 
      compounding pharmacists from prescribing natural progesterone (diosgenin) 
      after their profits fell by more than 57%  from $2.07 billion in 2003 to 
      $800 million in 2004 (after the WHI study had to be stopped)? Well, now they have gone after 
      centers like ours making complaints to the Federal Trade Commission 
      (FTC).  The FTC's position backed by the big pharmaceutical companies is 
      that Dr. John Lee, M.D.'s studies were not scientific and did not rise to 
      the standard of FDA and National Institutes of Health studies, and that 
      our claims about natural progesterone are false, unfair, deceptive, 
      misleading advertising in violation of the law.. (Please read 
    what Dr. Helen Pensanti M.D. has to say about this. Read on to how the study 
    was conducted.) This is an attempt to force women into taking unsafe proven cancer causing synthetic hormones using 
    your tax dollar to harass natural hormone suppliers. We here at the Women's 
    Menopause Health Center refuse to take away your choice of a healthy 
    alternative to Premarin, Prempro and the other dangerous drugs. We are 
    taking a stand against this heavy handed attempt to destroy competition. We 
    are going to fight for your choice of a healthy way to get through menopause 
    comfortably and safely. (Ed. note: This was from our newsletter last year. The 
    continued harassment by the FTC has caused us to discontinue our wonderful 
    product. Do not be forced 
    into taking something that can kill you. You may purchase safe progesterone cream at your local health food store, or find it a lot less 
    expensively on line at places like ebay and yahoo stores. Do not let these heavy handed tactics destroy your health!) Just how does laughing help in 
          controlling hot flashes? The benefits of laughter range from decreased 
          stress hormones to lowering high blood pressure and heart health. 
          Several surveys show that women who control stress well seem to have 
          fewer hot flashes during menopause. There are many physical changes when we laugh. Muscles stretch 
          throughout the face, neck, and body; respiration increases; pulse and 
          blood pressure rise. All these actions put more oxygen into the 
          bloodstream. Laughing is like a mini-workout without the work. It 
          makes you feel good, is contagious, makes everyone around you feel 
          good, and is just plain fun. Some exercise like walking is among the list of best natural remedies 
          for hot flashes. As you exercise, endorphins are released into the 
          bloodstream and that makes you feel your best. Laughter is thought to release endorphins into the brain. Endorphins 
          are produced in our bodies occurring naturally in the brain and 
          bloodstream. Endorphins are similar to the narcotic morphine in their 
          functions. They act by locking into receptors in the nervous system 
          for chemicals that transmit pain message to the brain. Once the pain 
          causing chemicals are blocked, they are prevented from transmitting 
          their messages. Two recently released studies from researchers at the University of 
          Texas-Austin at the annual meeting of the American College of Sports 
          Medicine in May 2009 demonstrated the benefits of laughter. Ten healthy adults in one report watched either a documentary on Nazi 
          death camps or a comedy. Researchers found that the blood vessels were 
          more relaxed from the comedy and that the depressing documentary had 
          the opposite effect and was harmful to the vascular system. Blood 
          vessels of those watching the death camp video were more constricted 
          by about 18%. Seventeen healthy adults ranging in age from 23-42 in another study 
          watched either a half hour comedy or a half hour documentary in 
          separate sessions a day apart. Blood flowing through the carotid 
          arteries – the main arteries that bring blood to the face and brain – 
          was monitored. Blood flow increased with laughter while watching the 
          comedy, and stayed at a higher level for 24 hours. Blood flow stayed 
          the same from watching the documentary. So, flip over to the comedy channel, have a good laugh, and get those 
          hot flashes under control. Home 
          remedies for hot flashes | Herbal remedy for hot 
          flashes | Treatment for hot 
          flashes night sweats | Controlling hot flashes | Hot Flashes - What Are They? | Control Hot Flashes with 
          Laughter. How to Cure Night Sweats | Causes for Hot Flashes | Natural Remedy Hot Flashes | What 
		To Do for Night Sweats | Herb Estrogen | What Are Symptoms of Menopause | When 
		Does Perimenopause Start | What is Hypothyroid | Menopause 
		Over the Counter | Bio Hormone Therapy | Hormone Balancing Foods | Symptoms Estrogen Dominance | Symptoms of Menopause Perimenopause | What To Do for Hot Flashes Nutrition Health 709-2 Plaza Dr. #105 Chesterton, IN 46304 (800)959-9036 info at womens-menopause-health 
		.com Copyright © Women's Menopause Health Center - All rights reserved Caution: The products and the claims made 
        about specific products on or through this site have not been evaluated 
        by Women's Menopause Health Center or the United States Food and Drug 
        Administration and are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent 
        disease. The information provided on this site is for informational 
        purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your 
        physician or other health care professional or any information contained 
        on or in any product label or packaging. You should not use the 
        information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health 
        problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You 
        should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, 
        exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if 
        you have or suspect you might have a health problem. The news related to 
        natural vitamins and nutritional supplements have been provided for 
        informational purposes only. Women's Menopause Health Center and all of 
        its affiliates, are not liable for any event following the viewing of 
        th