<http://penelopesoasis.com/?p=11037>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 07:56:13 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Learn About Kegel Exercises | Penelope's Oasis Home About Contact Marriage & Family Happy Marriage Tips Mommy Moments Creative Homemaking Creating an Oasis Organizing and Decluttering Penelope’s Recipes Beauty & Fashion Beauty Tips and Tutorials Fashion Fitness/ Getting In Shape After Baby Our Travels NYC Reviews Our Boston Travels Other Places To Visit Learn About Kegel Exercises Kegel exercises are a well-known and effective pelvic floor exercise for women that has been around since Dr. Arnold Kegel first came up with it in 1948. There is a reason Kegel exercises are still popular today (and Samantha from Sex and the City does them while she sips coffee at a cafe)… Kegel exercises work. They are effective for men also, but for some entirely different reasons. Why Kegels Exercises Are Awesome For Women As an aid with childbirth in women To correct genital relaxation and improve muscle tone First-line treatment for urinary stress incontinence and prevention of uterine prolapse To treat vaginal prolapse (usually a result of childbirth) Factors such as pregnancy, childbirth, aging, being excessively overweight, and abdominal surgery (including a c-section) can result in the weakening of pelvic muscles, leading to possible vaginal prolapse or urinary incontinence down the line. If you are pregnant, like me, it’s believed performing Kegel exercises during your pregnancy will prepare you for an easier labor and natural delivery, and continuing Kegels after you give birth helps you regain your prebirth muscle tone faster. I did during my first pregnancy and believe it helped me a lot. How To Perform Kegel Exercises Find the right muscles. Kegel exercises improve muscle tone by strengthening the pubococcygeus muscles of the pelvic floor. To find the PC muscles, try these tricks: when you urinate, intentionally stop the flow. The muscle you use to do this is the muscle you are looking for, so when you perform Kegels, this is the muscle you will be tightening. Alternatively, you can insert a finger in your vagina and squeeze the surrounding muscles to feel yourself tightening the correct muscle. Once you’ve identified your pelvic floor muscles you are ready to begin. Contract your pelvic floor muscles and hold the contraction for five seconds. Relax for five seconds, and then start again. Do this five times in a row each day to start, then work up to keeping the muscles contracted for ten seconds at a time. Focus on tightening only your pelvic floor muscles and not the muscles in your abdomen, thighs or bum. Repeat Kegel exercises three times a day. Aim for at least three sets of ten repetitions a day, each ten seconds long for each Kegel contraction. You can easily fit it into your schedule by doing it while watching tv, reading, checking email, etc. There are a lot of products on the market to aid women perform Kegel exercises. Unfortunately, many products (such as those used externally) have no impact at all on the Pubococcygeus muscle. If the PC Muscle is not engaged then it isn’t possible to strengthen the muscle. Intimina created the Laselle exerciser , a product to help ensure you are properly doing your Kegels exercise, because they position themselves in the correct location and provide a firm object for women to flex their muscles around. Using Laselle exercisers and performing your Kegel exercise daily while reading, checking email, sitting and having coffee, etc is a great way to get this important exercise done that easily fits into your schedule. Key Points of Laselle Kegel Exercisers: - Body-safe silicone shell that is FDA approved & phthalate-free - Discreet and effective pelvic floor muscle strengthener - Three different weights provide different levels of resistance Laselle exercisers are little balls that can be discreetly and safely used, and if you aren’t sure you are using the right muscles or doing your Kegels correctly, are a great way to reassure yourself and see results. If you are interested in purchasing Laselle exercisers you can click the CVS logo below. The Kegel exercisers vary based on weight, because different bodies have different needs), and start at about $12.99. promoted post Share your thoughts! Like this post? Disagree? Want to share it or respond? Talk about it on your blog or anywhere and use the code below to link back: Keep Reading! Accept and Appreciate Others As They Are Guard Your Tongue and Your Ears Happy Marriage Monday: My Dad Is My Hero- A Gift For Your Husband Cancel reply Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website { 4 comments… read them below or add one } Tammy I need to do these exercises. Reply Kelly I did these with my daughter and I think it helped during delivery.  I haven’t been with this pregnancy and really need to start. Reply Laura I did them too just after my twins were born, but without any device help, and got no results. I guess I was doing them wrong. I will definitely try these balls, they look very stylish! Reply Virginia from That Bald Chick I had no idea devices like this existed. Reply Previous post: Babies Vs. Puppies- Who Will Win The Cute Crown? Next post: Creative Way To Capture Memories (And Three Chances To Win Your Own DVD Transfer!) Join me! Check Out: For great savings and discounts- Barnes and Noble Coupons Save money and enjoy premium entertainment with Verizon FiOS NY in your home. Hair Tutorials, Crafts, Recipes, Happy Marriage Building NYC Mom Blogger Beauty Tips & Hair Tutorials Blowout Hair At Home Tutorial Build a Perfect Wardrobe Elegant Twisted Updo Hairstyle Tutorial French Braid Updo Hair Tutorial How To Create The Messy Updo Bun How To Wake Up Beautiful Knotted Updo Hairstyle Tutorial Romantic Renaissance Braids Updo Hair Tutorial Favorites From The Archives 10 Signs Of Real Love Greek Baklava Recipe Love Story Make Your Husband Happy He Married You Mushroom Calzone Recipe Perfect Ribeye Steaks Signs Of A Good Marriage Steak Tostada Salad Recipe Winter Romance Ideas Search Our Site: © 2012 Marriage Advice, Beauty Tips, Healthy Living, NYC M