Connection: close

Sacroiliac Joint Anatomy Spine-Health Twitter For Spine Professionals RSS Feed Back Pain Newsletter Facebook Login / Register More Search Tools: Doctors Videos Home Conditions Arthritis Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Disc Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Sciatica Spinal Stenosis Spine Anatomy All Conditions Treatment Alternative Care Back Surgery Chiropractic Injections Pain Management Pain Medication Physical Therapy All Treatments Wellness Ergonomics Exercise Massage Therapy Nutrition, Diet, Weight Loss Sleep Stop Smoking Yoga, Pilates, Tai Chi All Wellness Pain Forums Back/Neck Surgery Forums Chronic Pain Forums Neck Pain Forums All Pain Forums Find a Doctor Find a Chiropractor Find a Physician Find a Spine Center Resources Doctor Advice Pain Blog For Physicians Pain Glossary Product Marketplace Education Centers Pain News Clinical Trials All Clinical Trials Health Videos Sciatica Videos Surgery Videos Herniated Disc Videos Stenosis Videos Back Exercise Videos All Videos Spine Anatomy Home » Conditions » Spine Anatomy Sacroiliac Joint Anatomy A A A By: Peter F. Ullrich, Jr., MD print The sacroiliac joint connects the sacrum (triangular bone at the bottom of the spine) with the pelvis (iliac bone that is part of the hip joint) on each side of the lower spine. It transmits all the forces of the upper body to the pelvis and legs. There is not a lot of motion in the joint and it is very strong and stable. It is not clearly understood why sacroiliac joint dysfunction occurs, although some believe it is due to a limitation in its normal motion patterns and/or misalignment of the joint. Sacroiliac joint (SI joint) pain typically results in pain on one side very low in the back or in the buttocks.  Another term for sacroiliac joint pain is sacroiliitis , a term that describes inflammation in the joint. Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Symptoms SI joint problems are a common cause of low back pain.  Additional symptoms may be characterized by the following: Pain in the thigh and/or buttock, and possibly pain that radiates down the sciatic nerve, although it rarely radiates into the foot More commonly experienced on one side of the body, but may occur on both sides More commonly found in young or middle age women. Article continues below Treatments for Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Treatment for SI joint pain is most commonly nonsurgical, and is generally focused on reducing inflammation and pain and restoring normal motion in the joint.  Nonsurgical treatment may include one or a combination of the following: Physical therapy and exercise.  See also Sciatic Pain Relief Exercises for Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Pain medications (such as acetaminophen or muscle relaxants) and anti-inflammatory drugs (such as ibuprofen or naproxen) Use of a pelvic belt to provide stability Sacroiliac Joint Chiropractic Video Osteopathic or chiropractic manual manipulation of the sacroiliac joint Injections to the sacroiliac joint .  The injections introduce pain relieving medication and/or anti-inflammatory medication directly into the joint, and are most successful when done using fluoroscopy.  Length and amount of pain relief is variable. For the rare cases in which the patient experiences chronic, severe pain originating in the sacroiliac joint, surgery to fuse the sacroiliac joint may be an option.   The goal of a fusion for sacroiliac joint dysfunction is to properly align the joints and set up the environment to allow them (either one or both of the joints) to fuse together, thus eliminating any abnormal motion. More Resources in the Spine Anatomy Center Article written by: Peter F. Ullrich, Jr., MD Print Share | Related Articles Radiofrequency Neurotomy for Facet and Sacroiliac Joint Pain Chiropractic Procedures for the Sacroiliac Joint Sacroiliac (SI) Joint Exercises for Sciatic Pain Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction (SI Joint Pain) Accurate Diagnosis of Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Treatment Options for Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Facet Rhizotomy and Sacroiliac Joint Block Injections Related Videos Sacroiliac Joint Steroid Injection Video A sacroiliac joint steroid injection is performed to relieve pain caused by arthritis in the sacroiliac joint (sacroiliac joint dysfunction). Pain Topics Back Surgery Chiropractic Degenerative Disc Disease Exercise/Fitness Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Sciatica Spinal Fusion Spinal Stenosis Find a Back Doctor Find a Chiropractor All Pain Topics A - Z Pain & Surgery Forums advertisement Connect with Us Facebook Twitter RSS Feed eNewsletter Chat Forums advertisement Spine Anatomy Featured Videos Spine Anatomy Interactive Video Spondylolisthesis Symptoms and Causes Video Kyphosis Video: What is Kyphosis? Scoliosis Video: What is Scoliosis? All Specialists Physician (MD or DO) Chiropractor (DC) Other Health Professional » Find a Spine Center Take our New Poll QuickPoll: Are you a Female over age 50? Do you think you could be at risk for a Spinal Fracture? Click here. Back Pain Newsletter Sign Up Receive Spine-health's FREE weekly back pain eNewsletter YES - send me special offers from health-friendly sponsors at Spine-health advertisement Spine Clinical Trials Currently Recruiting The EVIDENCE Trial: For Failed Back Surgery Syndrome NeoFuse Trial: Stem Cell Therapy For Cervical Degenerative Disc Disease Biostat System Non-surgical Treatment of Chronic Low Back Pain Most Popular Spine-Health Articles What You Need to Know About Sciatica What is a Herniated Disc? What is Degenerative Disc Disease? Leg Pain and Numbness Lower Back Pain Symptoms Upper Back Pain Chiropractic Treatments Popular Health Centers Back Pain Back Surgery Chiropractic Degenerative Disc Disease Exercise Herniated Disc Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Sciatica Spinal Stenosis Other Back Conditions A-Z Back Pain and Neck Pain Resources Back Pain Videos Find a Back Doctor Find a Spine Center Pain Forums Spine Health Glossary For Spine Professionals / Become a Doctor Member About Spine-health About Us Awards Contact Us Privacy Policy Advertising / Sponsor Policy Site Map Spine-Health publishes original articles written for patients by over 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board . This trusted, independent site is supported by hundreds of physician members and visited by millions of patients and their physicians. The information in Spine-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding back pain and nec