Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Diagnostic & Preventive Dental Services in Yarmouth, Maine Bayview Dental Associates Specializing in Preventive and Restorative Dentistry 70 Bayview Street Yarmouth, Maine 04096 p 207.846.0979  f 207.846.5266 Home Services Meet the Doctors Our Staff Policies Resources Contact photo ©2008 corrie zacharias List of Services Diagnostic & Preventive Restorative Procedures Cosmetic Procedures Emergency Services Diagnostic & Preventive Dental Services Regular & Periodontal Prophylaxis Regular dental hygiene and routine periodontal exams allow Bayview Dental 
Associates to monitor your oral health and clean under your gum line where it is 
difficult to reach with a toothbrush. Bayview Dental Associates can take care of 
your entire family. Fluoride Treatments Fluoride applications help to strengthen the enamel on your teeth and is 
	especially important for children. Fluoride is also especially important for 
	patients who are undergoing orthodontic treatment and older adults with 
	conditions such as low salivary flow and/or exposed root surfaces or 
	recession. For cavity prevention, it is recommended 
	that children receive an exam and fluoride treatment every six months. Sealants Sealants are a protective coating applied to the chewing surfaces of the 
	back teeth to help prevent decay in the hard-to-reach grooves. Dental 
	sealants are typically applied as a child's permanent teeth erupt, although 
	adult molars can also be sealed if there is no evidence of decay. Nightguard Therapy (Occlusal Guard) Also known as an Occlusal Guard, Nightguards are used to prevent damage 
	to chewing surfaces of the teeth due to grinding or clenching. Nightguard 
	Therapy is a successful and highly recommended option for patients with TMJ 
	dysfunction. By creating an acrylic pattern of your teeth, Bayview Dental 
	Associates can help protect your teeth from unnecessary wear. Home | Services | Meet the Dentists | Our Staff | Policies | Resources | Contact ©2008-2010 Bayview Dental Associates Web Site Development