
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 07:29:36 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 06:29:36 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
X-Pad: avoid browser bug

Pamela Quit Smoking Story About.com Health Smoking Cessation Smoking Cessation Search Smoking Cessation Health Risks How to Quit After Quitting Share Free Smoking Cessation Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Pamela Quit Smoking "Keep your reasons for quitting with you at all times." By Terry Martin , About.com Guide Updated March 10, 2004 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: quit smoking tips personal quit stories healing and the mind reasons to quit smoking On February 17, 2003, my life changed dramatically. My husband of 24 years, David, age 49, died of a blood clot to the heart. This clot, we found out later after an autopsy, was most likely caused by cigarette smoking. I refused to believe this could be possible and still kept smoking myself. My husband had quit numerous times, but I refused to quit. I would not smoke in front of him, but I would still smoke, still smell of smoke, and my breath, I am sure, was like a stale cigarette. He was not smoking at the time of his death. In September of 2003, a very good friend of our family had a stroke. She is partially paralyzed on her left side. The doctor told the family that she most likely suffered this stroke because of cigarettes. This friend is still undergoing physical therapy to bring back the feeling on the left side of her body. She is still in a wheelchair, and her life, as well as her family's, has been dramatically changed. The house had to be equipped with ramps for the wheelchair. She can not be left alone because she is unable to go to the bathroom by herself. She is 51 years old. On September 24, 2003, I went to a hypnotist, Dr. Marvin Fine, and have been cigarette free since that date. I believe that I quit because of the traumatic events which happened during the past 8 months, and also in respect of what would have been my husband's 50th birthday, October 10th. It has been four months since I have had a cigarette. It is one of the hardest things that I have done, but one I knew I had to do. I am all that my children have in this world. They mean the world to me, and have helped me survive this past year. I can breathe so much better and smell things that I have not smelled in years. Everything tastes so much better. I have gained 10 pounds, but I am working hard to get this off before Spring. You have to be ready to quit, but once you are committed, you can do anything. Good luck and keep your reasons for quitting with you at all times. The one statement that stuck with me is: "Neither you, nor, more importantly perhaps, those who love you, should ever have to face a fight like this. It turns out quitting is not nearly as tough as not quitting." This is from lung cancer victim, Phil Salters, 57, TV News reporter, Chicago Sun-Times, 9/13/00. Pamela Benefits of Stopping Smoking Benefits of Cessation EB's List of Reasons The Pros and Cons of Smoking Six Month Smoke Free Stories "Cigarettes are a Deadly Lie" Neeny's Six Month Milestone EB's Six Months How to Stop Smoking How to Stop Smoking Prepare Yourself to Stop Smoking Why Should I Stop Smoking? Related Articles Pam's Quit Smoking Story Rosa and Marcy Quit Smoking Cigarettes Jan Quit Smoking Cigarettes Story Afraid to Quit Smoking - Why Am I Afraid to Quit Smoking Your True Tales - September 2003 - Page 39 - Mother's Smoke Terry Martin Smoking Cessation Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Video What Happens When You Quit Smoking? What Happens When You Quit Smoking? More Videos See All About.com Videos Related Searches marvin fine cigarette smoking traumatic events blood clot hypnotist 50th birthday Explore Smoking Cessation Must Reads After The Last Cigarette Nicotine Withdrawal Your Quit Smoking Toolbox Shocking Tobacco Facts 10 Things to Avoid When You Quit Most Popular Effects of Cigarette Smoking Benefits of Quitting Smoking Quit Smoking Benefits - 2 Days Quit Smoking - 2 wks to 3 mo Nicotine Withdrawal See More About: quit smoking tips personal quit stories healing and the mind reasons to quit smoking By Category Reasons to Quit Smoking Quit Smoking Help Quit Smoking Aids After You Quit Smoking Motivational Smoking Relapse Cigarette Ingredients Cancer Emphysema / COPD Smoking and Your Health Teen Smoking Secondhand Smoke Photo Gallery Tobacco Research and Reform Cigars, Pipes and Smokeless Smoking Cessation About.com Health Smoking Cessation Motivational Quit Smoking Stories Pamela Quit Smoking Story> Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod