Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture One - Medical Acupuncture Tuesday, August 21, 2007 To Your Health Sorely in Need of an Acupuncturist The impact of pain, particularly chronic pain, is far-reaching. It can affect everything from one's day-to-day activities and quality of life to the level of employee productivity at America's most powerful corporations. According to a recent report from the National Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), approximately one in ten adults suffers chronic pain lasting at least a year, and one in four reports suffering pain for at least an entire day during the previous month. See complete story Labels: ache , back pain , headache , joint , migraine , neck pain posted by James Rodowca, MSOM, L.Ac. @ 1:29 PM Monday, March 26, 2007 Headaches and Migraines The pain that headache and migraine sufferers endure can impact every aspect of their lives - but you knew that.  What you may not have considered is that acupuncture can offer powerful relief without the side effects that prescription and over-the-counter drugs can cause.  Acupuncture and Chinese Herbal Medicine have been used to relieve heaaches and migraines, as well as their underlying causes, for thousands of years and are widely accepted forms of treatment for headaches in our society.  The World Health Organization has listed headaches and migraines as neurological conditions that acupuncture therapy can effectively treat. Diagnosis with Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) TCM does not recognize migraines and recurring headaches as one particular syndrome.  Instead, it aims to treat the specific symptoms that are unique to each individual using a variety of techniques such as acupuncture, Chinese herbs, and tuina massage to restore imbalances found in the body.  Your diagnosis and treatment will depend on a number of variables: Is the headache behind your eyes and temples, or is it located more on the top of the head?  When do your headaches occur (i.e. night, morning, after eating)?  Do you find that a cold compress or a dark room can alleviate some of the pain?  Do you describe the pain as dull and throbbing, or sharp and piercing? These questions will help create a clear picture on which your practitioner can create a treatment plan specifically for you.  The basic foundation for Oriental medicine is that there is a life energy flowing through the body which is termed Qi (pronounced chee).  This energy flows through the body on channels known as meridians that connect all of our major organs.  According to Chinese medical theory, illness arises when the cyclical flow of Qi in the meridians becomes unbalanced.  Acupuncture is the stimulation of specific points which have the ability to alter various biochemical and physiological conditions in order to achieve the desired effect - in this case pain relief. Biomedical evidence Migraine sufferers have been found to have a higher than normal levels of serum calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP), two chemiclas associated with expanded blood vessels and neurogenic inflammation.  A study was published recently in the Journal of Chinese Medicine which compared the mean levels of CGRP and SP in a non-headache group with the mean levels of the two chemicals in a group of migraine sufferers before and after acupuncture treatment.  What the researchers found was a marked movement towards more normal levels of CGRP and SP in the migraine group after treatment. 1 Acupuncture treatment at ACUPUNCTURE ONE The length, number and frequency of treatments will vary.  Typical treatments last from 10 to 30 minutes, with the patient being treated one or two times a week.  Some symptoms are relieved after the first treatment, while more severe or chronic ailments often require multiple treatments.  At ACUPUNCTURE ONE, we will tailor for you an appropriate treatment plan utilizing acupuncture and Chinese herbal supplements to try to bring relief of this frustrating condition. Reference 1 Li Wei, et al. "A Clinical Audit of the Treatment of Migraine with Acuopuncture", Journal of Chinese Medicine. #11, 2002, p.824-825. Labels: acupuncture , headache , migraine , Qi posted by James Rodowca, MSOM, L.Ac. @ 10:45 AM Return to Acupuncture One Previous Posts Adequate pain care sorely lacking for patients Acupuncture Reduces Painful Side Effects of Breast... Nerves Tangle, and Back Pain Becomes a Toothache Acupuncture Relieves Menstrual Pain Treat The Pain Of Fibromyalgia Through Effective A... 10 holistic pet care tips you can trust A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness ... Neck Pain Patients Prefer Acupuncture to Injection... Acupuncture May Help Menstrual Pain Older Americans begin to embrace nontraditional me... Archives February 2007 March 2007 April 2007 May 2007 June 2007 July 2007 August 2007 September 2007 October 2007 November 2007 December 2007 January 2008 February 2008 March 2008 April 2008 May 2008 June 2008 July