< 140 mg/dl For the 100-g OGTT: Fasting: < 95 mg/dl 1 hour: < 180 mg/dl 2 hours: < 155 mg/dl 3 hours: < 140 mg/dl Our first patient was anxious at baseline and so referral to a
                     “high-risk” practice amplified her anxiety. It is important to
                     emphasize the nature of the glucose abnormality and explain the reasons for
                     referral in a gentle manner. Encouraging the patient's partner to come to the
                     visit is a good idea so that he can ask questions that the woman might have
                     been too fearful to ask. Our second patient had a higher degree of abnormality in her test results
                     and had already gained quite a bit of weight by week 28. Additionally, she was
                     already 38 years old, which increases the risk for diabetes and other
                     complications. It is advisable to ask about patients' level of understanding
                     of the diagnosis and significance of GDM to adequately educate them about the
                     importance of good glucose control for themselves and their fetus. Diabetes education from a certified diabetes educator is one way of
                     accomplishing the above goals. The following simple, key elements of a
                     discussion about GDM are crucial: Although there is no cause for unreasonable alarm, GDM requires treatment
                           for the benefit of both woman and fetus. Main concerns are maternal blood glucose levels, which directly nourish the
                           fetus through placental circulation. High glucose levels can lead to a
                           larger-than-normal baby. This can cause a more difficult birth, possibly
                           requiring a cesarean section, and might cause a preterm scheduled birth or
                           result in low blood glucose requiring treatment in the newborn. Keeping
                           maternal blood glucose levels to < 90 mg/dl fasting and < 120 mg/dl 1-2
                           hours after meals reduces the risk of developing these complications. Evaluate patients' eating and exercise habits, and consult a professional
                           for appropriate counseling. Ethnic factors play an important role, and some
                           women still think they should “eat for two.” According to the ADA position statement on nutrition recommendations for
                           people with diabetes: ○ Adequate energy intake that provides appropriate weight gain is
                                 recommended during pregnancy. Weight loss is not recommended; however, for
                                 overweight and obese women with GDM, modest energy and carbohydrate
                                 restriction may be appropriate. ○ Ketonemia from ketoacidosis or starvation ketosis should be
                                 avoided. ○ Nutrition therapy focuses on food choices for appropriate weight
                                 gain, normoglycemia, and absence of ketones. ○ Because GDM is a risk factor for subsequent type 2 diabetes, after
                                 delivery, lifestyle modifications aimed at reducing weight and increasing
                                 physical activity are recommended. Although this form of diabetes usually resolves after delivery, it could
                           reappear in future pregnancies and raises a woman's risk of developing
                           diabetes sometime later in her life. Following general dietary guidelines,
                           maintaining ideal body weight, and being physically active are lifelong
                           prevention measures. Provide printed literature, such as a pamphlet on GDM, which allows
                           patients to read at their leisure, when they are less stressed. Encourage them
                           to ask questions. Exercise is often overlooked. Although there are some things a pregnant
                           woman might want to avoid, most basic exercises are fine. Scheduling postnatal testing is crucial and is part of accepted clinical
                           guidelines for patients with GDM. Previous Section Next Section CLINICAL PEARLS GDM is not a benign condition. Lifelong risks continue for the mother even
                           if the diabetes resolves after pregnancy. Risks may continue for the baby, not
                           only as a newborn, but also later in life. For example, an intrauterine
                           environment that includes too much glucose or offers inadequate nutrition has
                           been linked to childhood obesity and type 2 diabetes later in life. Referring a patient to a diabetes education program staffed by certified
                           diabetes educators will ensure that the key points mentioned above will be
                           covered. It will also ensure that patients will get a detailed dietary
                           evaluation and a realistic dietary prescription. In addition, a discussion of
                           safe exercise routines is usually included in these sessions, as well as
                           discussions about oral health, eye health, and foot care. It is extremely important to balance unnecessary worry or naïve
                           nonchalance with appropriate information and with hands-on instruction about
                           what the patient can do to limit her risk. Confirming patients' understanding
                           at the conclusion of a visit is advisable. Previous Section Next Section Footnotes Lois L. Exelbert, RN, MS, CDE, BC-ADM, is the administrative director
                              of the Diabetes Care Center at Baptist Hospital of Miami in Florida. American Diabetes Association Previous Section SUGGESTED READINGS American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists
                                    Diabetes Mellitus Clinical Practice Guidelines Task Force : AACE
                                 diabetes mellitus guidelines: diabetes and pregnancy. Endocrine
                                    Pract 13 (Suppl. 1): 55 -59, 2007 American Diabetes Association : Nutrition
                                 recommendations and interventions for diabetes [Position Statement]. Diabetes Care 31 (Suppl.
                                 1): S61 -S78, 2008 FREE Full Text Buchanan TA , Xiang
                                 A, Kjos SL, Watanabe R: What is gestational diabetes? Diabetes
                                    Care 30 (Suppl. 2): S105 -S111, 2007 FREE Full Text Cleveland Clinic: Oral glucose tolerance test during pregnancy
                              [article online]. Available online from http://my.clevelandclinic.org/services/oral_glucose_tolerance_test/hic_Oral_Glucose_Tolerance_Test_During_Pregnancy.aspx Kitzmiller JL ,
                                 Dang-Kilduff L, Taslimi MM: Gestational diabetes after delivery: short-term
                                 management and long-term risks. Diabetes Care 30 (Suppl. 2): S225 -S235, 2007 FREE Full Text Perkins JM , Dunn
                                 JP, Jagasia SM: Perspectives in gestational diabetes mellitus: a review of
                                 screening, diagnosis, and treatment. Clin Diabetes 25 : 57 -62, 2007 Abstract / FREE Full Text CiteULike Delicious Digg Facebook Google+ Reddit Technorati Twitter What's this? « Previous | Next Article » Table of Contents This Article doi: 10.2337/diaclin.26.4.177 Clinical Diabetes October 2008 vol. 26 no. 4 177-178 Extract Free » Full Text Full Text (PDF) Purchase Article View Shopping Cart Services Email this article to a colleague Alert me when this article is cited Alert me if a correction is posted Similar articles in this journal Download to citation manager Load patient INFORMation Citing Articles Load citing article information Citing articles via Google Scholar Google Scholar Articles by  Exelbert, L. L. Search for related content PubMed Articles by  Exelbert, L. L. Social Bookmarking CiteULike Delicious Digg Facebook Google+ Reddit Technorati Twitter What's this? Navigate This Article Top PRESENTATION QUESTIONS COMMENTARY CLINICAL PEARLS Footnotes SUGGESTED READINGS Current Issue Winter 2012, 30 (1) From the Cover Choosing GLP-1 Receptor Agonists or DPP-4 Inhibitors: Weighing the Clinical Trial Evidence Bridges to Excellence: Telephone Coaching to Improve Diabetes Self-Management for Rural Residents Practical Pointers: Strategies to Limit the Effect of Hypoglycemia on Diabetes Control: Identifying and Reducing the Risks Diabetes Advocacy: The Crucial Role of Health Care Professionals in Advocating for Students With Diabetes Alert me to new issues of Clinical Diabetes About Clinical Diabetes Editorial Board Instructions for Authors Subscriptions Advertising & Reprints ADA's DiabetesPro ADA Member Directory More ADA Publications Diabetes Diabetes Care Diabetes Spectrum ADA Clinical Practice Recommendations Scientific Sessions Abstracts Books & Other Publications Advertisement DiabetesJournals.org American Diabetes Association • National Office 1701 N. Beauregard St. • Alexandria VA 22311 Print ISSN: 0149-5992 Online ISSN: 1935