
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 17:02:02 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 17:02:02 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Stroke | HealthyWomen home | donate | publications | advertising | partnerships | news & media Search health centers Aging and Memory Allergies and Asthma Alternative Medicine Anxiety and Depression Birth Control Bone and Joint Health Brain and Nervous System Breast Health Cancer Caregiving Chronic Pain Diabetes Diet and Fitness Digestive Disorders Eye Health Flu and Cold Heart Health Men's Health Menopause Mental Health Military Veterans' Health and Wellness Pregnancy Reproductive and Pelvic Health Sexual Health Skin Health health topics a-z allergies alzheimer's disease androgen birth control pills breast cancer cholesterol colon cancer crohn's disease diabetes endometriosis epilepsy estrogen fibroids fibromyalgia flu/colds heart disease high blood pressure hpv hysterectomy incontinence irritable bowel syndrome menstrual disorders migraine obesity osteoporosis ovarian cancer progesterone sexual dysfunction skin cancer stroke thyroid disorders urinary tract infections uterine cancer vaccines healthy living diet & nutrition recipes fitness managing stress beauty & aging alternative medicine sex & relationships family health & wellness tools pregnancy & parenting planning a pregnancy ovulation calculator pregnancy labor & delivery newborn care toddlers to teens healthy mom family health & wellness midlife & beyond menopause aging well sex and intimacy family health & wellness womenTALK womenTALK blogs ask the expert videos and podcasts womenTALK 2011 Survey contests and freebies Healthy Women | informed. empowered. Home sign up for free newsletters Print Stroke Stroke Stroke Awareness: Early Intervention Saves Lives Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States, and the primary cause of disability. Each year, 780,000 new and recurrent strokes occur in the United States, and 55,000 more women suffered stroke than men in a year. The increased rate of stroke among women is partly due to women’s longer life expectancy. Continue Reading Worried About Stroke? Know the Facts You can have a stroke at any age. More than 25 percent of stroke victims are under 65. However, for every decade after age 55, your risk of stroke increases by 10 percent. There are two forms of stroke: ischemic (blockage of a blood vessel supplying the brain) and hemorrhagic (bleeding into or around the brain). African-American women have a lower one-year survival rate following stroke than Caucasian women. Continue Reading Stroke Symptoms Checklist What is a stroke? A stroke happens when a blood vessel carrying oxygen and nutrients to the brain is either blocked by a clot ( ischemic stroke ) or ruptures ( hemorrhagic stroke ). When this occurs, part of the brain no longer receives the oxygen it needs, and the tissue in that area starts to die. Continue Reading What is it? Diagnosis Treatment Prevention Facts to Know Questions to Ask Key Q&A Lifestyle Tips Organizations and Support What is it? Overview What Is It? Incontinence is the inability to control urination. It is not a disease, but rather a symptom that can be caused by a wide range of conditions and can often be improved or cured. If you're leaking urine when you cough, laugh or sneeze, or you have sudden urges to go to the bathroom that are so intense you fear you won't get there in time, you're probably experiencing incontinence. The inability to control urination is a treatable, and often curable, problem faced by millions of Americans, most of them women.  While at least half the elderly experience the condition, and it is a major cause of admission to nursing homes, it is often mistakenly thought of as a problem suffered only by older people. In fact, incontinence can occur at any age. Although the majority of incontinence cases can be improved or cured, many of   those afflicted never discuss their problem with a health care professional.   Instead of recognizing incontinence as a treatable condition and pursuing treatment,   many women view it as an embarrassing consequence of aging. They may wear absorbent   products and not seek other treatment. Health care professionals recommend   using absorbent products during treatment or as part of treatment, but not   as the first and only treatment for incontinence. Left untreated, incontinence   can lead to skin rashes and infections, loss of self-esteem, emotional distress   and self-imposed isolation. You don't have to suffer incontinence in silence,   as there are several treatment options from which you and your health care   professional can choose. Incontinence is not a disease—it's a symptom that can be caused by a wide   range of conditions, such as diabetes, stroke and nerve diseases, like multiple   sclerosis. Weak pelvic floor muscles or an overactive bladder muscle may also   cause leakage. Your urinary   tract  includes two kidneys, two ureters,   the bladder  and   the urethra.   Your kidneys remove waste and water from your blood to produce urine. Urine   travels through muscular tubes called the ureters to the bladder. The bladder   is a balloon-like organ composed of muscle, connective tissue and nerves that   expands as it fills with urine. Urine is stored in the bladder until it is released from the body through a tube called the urethra. Circular muscles, called the urinary       sphincters, control the activity of the urethra. The sphincter       muscles prevent the loss of urine. The sphincters close off the base of       the bladder—like a rubber band at the base of a balloon—so you do not leak urine. As the bladder fills with urine, you have an increasing urge to urinate. Sensory   nerves in the bladder signal your brain when the bladder is full. Just before   you urinate, the sphincter first relaxes and then, in reflex fashion the bladder   muscle contracts, squeezing urine out through the urethra. When you stop urinating, the bladder muscle relaxes, and the sphincters contract. Incontinence can worsen because of aging, illness or injury. A urinary tract   infection, vaginal infection or irritation and constipation can cause temporary   bouts of incontinence that are alleviated by treating the ailment. Additionally,   some medications can cause incontinence, and changing or discontinuing a drug   may bring relief. Women who are pregnant may also suffer from temporary bladder   control problems, which are caused by hormonal changes and pressure exerted on the urinary tract by the growing fetus. Most incontinence in women is triggered by problems with the bladder and sphincter   muscles, which can weaken with age. A bladder muscle that is too active, weak   pelvic muscles resulting from pregnancy and childbirth, hormonal imbalances   in menopausal women, nerve disorders and immobility also can contribute to   incontinence. Although these bladder control problems tend to be long-term, eight out of 10 women who seek treatment see an improvement or are cured. To help you better understand your incontinence and better explain it to your   health care professional, it's helpful to recognize what kind of incontinence   you may have. Health care professionals classify incontinence by the symptoms   displayed or the circumstances occurring at the time urine is involuntarily released. The following are types of urinary incontinence: Stress incontinence is the most common form of incontinence in women. This occurs when any kind of pressure is put on the bladder, such as during sneezing, laughing, lifting, running, coughing, exercising, walking or even rising from a chair. Childbirth and weight gain are two common causes of incontinence because these conditions stretch the pelvic floor muscles. The pelvic floor muscles support the bladder, and when they are stretched, the neck of the bladder, or the place where the bladder and the urethra meet, drops and pushes against the vagina wall, preventing the sphincter muscles that force the urethra shut from tightening as well as they should. The result is urine leaks during physical stress. Stress incontinence also can occur when the sphincter muscles themselves weaken. Women with this type of incontinence may notice that it seems to worsen the week before a menstrual period, when lower estrogen levels may result in lower muscular pressure around the urethra, permitting urine to leak. Menopausal women also may experience incontinence caused by similar hormone-related changes. Low estrogen levels in menopausal women may weaken sphincter muscles, causing urine leakage. Additionally, decreased estrogen levels may cause the lining of the urethra to thin, reducing bladder support. Urge     incontinence    is characterized by urgent needs to urinate, followed by sudden urine leakage.  Occasionally, some women have no warning or urge sensation. You also may leak  urine when you drink small amounts of liquid, or when you hear or touch running  water. You may go to the bathroom as often as every two hours, and you may wet  the bed at night. Involuntary bladder contractions are the most common cause  of urge incontinence and are described by health care professionals as "overactive," "unstable" or "spastic" bladder.  The involuntary bladder muscle contractions can be caused by damage to the bladder  muscle or nerves, or to the body's nervous system, including the spinal cord  and brain. Such damage may be caused by diseases such as multiple sclerosis,  Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, stroke, brain tumors or injuries, including those that can occur in surgery. Overflow incontinence occurs when your bladder remains full and leaks urine. You may feel as though you need to empty your bladder but cannot. Or you may urinate a small amount, but feel like your bladder is still full. Frequent or constant dribbling of urine also is a sign of this type of incontinence, which is rare in women. A damaged bladder or a blocked urethra can cause an inability to empty the bladder. Diabetes and other diseases can cause nerve damage that weakens the bladder muscle. Urinary stones or tumors also can block the urethra, which can force urine to remain in the bladder and even back up the urinary tract. Functional incontinence is untimely urination because of physical disability, external obstacles or problems in thinking or communicating that prevent a person from reaching a toilet. This may occur with severe arthritis, after joint replacement, or with Alzheimer's disease. Mixed incontinence is a combination of types of incontinence, usually stress and urge. In some studies, mixed incontinence is the predominant form of incontinence. Diagnosis Diagnosis If you're suffering from incontinence (the inability to control urination),   don't be afraid to tell your health care professional what you're experiencing.   By talking with your health care professional, you can find out why you're   having bladder control and urinary leakage problems and what kind of treatment   is best for you. Remember, incontinence is not a disease: it is a symptom of   one or more of a wide range of conditions. Make sure you tell your health care   professional what prescription and over-the-counter medications you are taking, as many drugs can contribute to incontinence. To diagnose the cause of your incontinence, your health care professional   will first ask questions about your urinary habits and medical history. You   should receive a thorough physical examination, including a pelvic exam, in   which your health care professional will look for medical conditions that may be causing leakage, such as infections, tumors or impacted stool. Constipation, or infrequent bowel movements that pass small amounts of hard,   dry stool, can cause the stool to pack the intestine and rectum so tightly   that the normal pushing action of the colon cannot move and discharge the stool.   This condition, known as impacted stool or fecal impaction, occurs most often   in the elderly or nursing home populations. It can produce urinary incontinence   as the packed intestine and rectum swells and presses against the urinary tract,   blocking flow of urine. Loosening and removing the impacted stool, usually   by taking softening medication and having a health care professional break   up and extract the stool with a finger inserted in the anus, relieves the urinary   incontinence. Constipation should be avoided in any woman seeking to improve continence. You may be asked to keep a diary of your urinary patterns for at least three   days and up to a week. In the bladder diary, you record what, when and how   much liquid you drink; how many times you urinate and how much; how many leaks   you have; whether you felt an urgency to urinate; and what you were doing at the time you experienced a leak. Your health care professional may also perform some tests, depending on the type and suspected causes of your incontinence, including: Urinalysis,     in which you will provide a sample of your urine that will be analyzed for the  evidence of blood, infection, urinary stones and other abnormalities that can  cause leakage. Cough stress test,     in which you first relax and then cough while your health care professional  looks for urine leakage. This test checks for stress incontinence and is best  performed in an upright position. Post-void residual (PVR) measurement test that is performed to see how much urine remains in your bladder after urination. In this test, you drink fluids and urinate into a measuring pan. Then, your health care professional drains the remaining urine in your bladder for measurement by inserting a small, pliable tube, called a catheter, through the urethra into the bladder. Alternatively, your health care professional measures the urine remaining in the bladder by using pelvic ultrasound, in which a machine directs sound waves at the bladder and produces shadowy images from which the amount of urine in the bladder can be determined. Your health care professional can explain what your PVR readings mean. Blood    tests to check levels of substances in the blood that might be related to disorders  or diseases that may cause incontinence. If the results of the basic evaluation and initial tests fail to point to   a definitive diagnosis, your health care professional may refer you to a specialist,   such as a urologist, who treats urinary tract disorders, or a urogynecologist,   who treats urinary tract problems in women. Your health care professional also may recommend the following additional tests: Urodynamic testing     assesses bladder and sphincter function, including the pressure and volume of  urine in the bladder and the pressure and flow of urine from the bladder through  the urethra. One test, called cystometry ,  measures contractions of the bladder muscle as it fills and empties by inserting  a catheter through the urethra into the bladder and filling it with water. Sometimes,  another tiny tube is inserted into the rectum to measure pressure on your bladder  when you cough or exert pressure. Urodynamic testing also may include imaging,  such as x-rays or ultrasound, to examine changes in the position of the bladder and urethra during urination, coughing or straining. Cystoscopy,    a test that uses a tiny telescope-like instrument that allows your health care  professional to see inside the bladder and urinary tract and examine them for  problems. You may be given some medication to relax you before the test, which  involves inserting a thin tube that contains a miniature camera through the  urethra and into the bladder. This test is not typically used for diagnosing  incontinence but may be used for select patients. Your health care professional may also perform additional tests to rule out pelvic weakness as the cause of your incontinence, including one called the Q-tip test. The Q-tip test measures the difference in the angle of the urethra when it is at rest versus when it is straining. If the angle changes more than 30 degrees, there is most likely significant weakness in the pelvic floor muscles. Be sure to discuss with your health care professional which tests are best for you, the exact procedures that will be followed when they are conducted and what the results mean in assessing your bladder control problem and developing an appropriate course of treatment. Treatment Treatment The majority of incontinence conditions can be improved or cured with treatment,   once the condition is brought to the attention of a health care professional   and accurately diagnosed. Many women are too ashamed or embarrassed to discuss   their incontinence condition with their health care team or think that treatment   isn't available. In fact, a variety of treatment options are available for   incontinence conditions, depending on which type of incontinence is diagnosed: stress incontinence, urge incontinence, overflow incontinence or mixed incontinence. Incontinence is not a disease, though it can be a symptom of an underlying   condition, such as diabetes. However, most incontinence in women is triggered   by problems with the bladder and sphincter muscles, which can weaken with age and from childbirth. Treatment options include: behavioral techniques pelvic muscle exercises medications medical devices that block or capture urine surgery Your   health care professional can teach you ways to control your bladder and sphincter   muscles. Behavioral techniques generally are tried first because once you learn   them, you usually can do them yourself at home; they have no side effects;   and they don't preclude other treatment options. Types of behavioral techniques   are: Pelvic muscle exercises, known as Kegel exercises, strengthen the muscular components of the urethral closing mechanism and are often used in stress incontinence therapy. The exercises involve squeezing the muscles, holding the squeeze for a few seconds, then relaxing, and repeating the process. The basic recommended regimen is to do three sets of eight to 12 contractions, holding each contraction for eight to 10 seconds, performed at least three to four times a week (preferably every day) for 15 to 20 weeks. The keys to success with pelvic muscle exercises are accuracy (making sure you exercise the correct muscles) and compliance (sticking with the exercise program). Your health care professional can help you learn to identify the muscles. Sometimes biofeedback and electrical stimulation are used to improve exercise results. Biofeedback    is a training technique that teaches you how to control physical responses,  such as breathing, muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure that are not  normally controlled voluntarily. Biofeedback techniques may help you to gain  control over your bladder and pelvic muscles and to strengthen the sphincter  muscle. A monitoring device is placed on the muscles that let you know when  you have contracted them, and how strong the contraction was. In one study of  222 women with urge incontinence, behavioral training combined with biofeedback  led to a 63 percent reduction in incontinence. Over the years, mainstream health  care professionals and insurers have increasingly accepted biofeedback techniques. Electrical stimulation:     Brief doses of electrical stimulation can strengthen muscles in the lower pelvis  in a way similar to exercising the muscles. Electrodes are temporarily placed  in the vagina or rectum to stimulate nearby muscles. This procedure will stabilize  overactive muscles and stimulate contraction of urethral muscles. Electrical  stimulation can be used to reduce both stress incontinence and urge incontinence.  Some insurers may not pay for this procedure, so be sure to check on your coverage. Bladder training     is used to treat urge incontinence, but may also be used for other types of  incontinence. Your health care provider teaches different ways to control the  urge to urinate, such as through distraction (thinking about things other than  having to go to the bathroom), taking a deep breath, contracting the pelvic  muscles, or visualizing the urge as a wave that rises and falls. You also follow  a urination schedule that gradually lengthens the time between bathroom visits. Several medications can be used to treat incontinence and are sometimes used   in conjunction with behavioral techniques. Because many drugs can have side   effects, can interact with other medications, or should not be used by people   with certain medical conditions, only you and your health care professional can determine which medications are right for you. Some of the medications are drugs that block production and use of a chemical   that prompts bladder contractions. These medications are often used to treat   urge incontinence, but they should not be taken by if you have urinary retention,   certain types of stomach problems, or narrow-angle glaucoma. Here are some of the most common drugs for overactive bladder/urge incontinence. Oxybutynin (Ditropan) blocks bladder muscle contractions and is recommended for treatment of urge incontinence. The oxybutynin tablets also come in an extended-release formula. Common side effects include mouth, nose and throat dryness; headache; constipation; nausea; and dizziness. Oxybutynin chloride can also produce blurred vision. Oxybutynin may also be delivered through the skin, with the Oxytrol patch or a gel (Gelnique). The patch is applied two times a week, and the gel is applied daily. The most common side effect is skin irritation (less likely with the gel). Other side effects include those associated with oral oxybutynin. Tolterodine tablets (Detrol) is a drug for overactive bladder. Side effects include cause dry mouth, headaches, constipation, blurring of near vision, dizziness, upset stomach and abdominal pain. Trospium (Sanctura).     This drug is approved for the treatment of overactive bladder. Side effects  include dry mouth and constipation. Solifenacin (Vesicare) and darifenacin (Enablex).     These drugs are also approved for the treatment of overactive bladder. Side  effects include constipation and dry mouth. Imipramine (Tofranil).     This is an antidepressant drug that may occasionally be prescribed together  with other medications to treat incontinence. It works by causing the bladder  muscle to relax while simultaneously causing the smooth muscles at the neck  of the bladder to contract. Side effects include blurred vision, dizziness,  dry mouth, fatigue, insomnia and nausea. Fesoterodine (Toviaz). This tablet is approved to treat overactive bladder with symptoms of urinary frequency, incontinence and urgency. It works by reducing spasms of the bladder muscles. Side effects may include allergic reactions, blurred vision, dizziness, constipation, upset stomach, insomnia and dry mouth, eyes or throat. If you have mild to moderate stress incontinence, your health care professional may prescribe one or more of the following medications, however, no drugs have been proven effective for treating stress incontinence: Anticholinergic drugs, such as oxybutynin (Ditropan, Oxytrol), tolterodine (Detrol), darifenacin (Enablex), trospium (Sanctura) or solifenacin (Vesicare) Alpha-adrenergic agonist drugs, such as phenylpropanolamine and pseudoephedrine, which can strengthen the sphincter and work to improve symptoms in many people The tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (Imipramil, Tofranil), which works similarly to alpha-adrenergic drugs Absorbent products may be used while treatments are under way or as part of a treatment plan, in combination with behavioral training, exercises, medications or other treatment options. Surgery Surgical procedures also may help women with   stress incontinence when less invasive therapies do not improve symptoms. Surgery   is a serious step that needs to be discussed with your health care professional   so you clearly understand all the risks, as well as the chances that the surgery   will relieve your urine control and urinary tract support problems. Although   the procedures do have high success rates, complications can occur, including   recurrence of incontinence. The most popular procedure in the United States and Europe today involves   a mid-urethral polypropylene sling. A surgeon uses the synthetic material to   make a sling that compresses the bottom of the bladder and the top of the urethra,   preventing urine leaks. Alternatively, the surgeon may use a piece of pelvic connective tissue to create a sling. Surgery may also involve bladder neck suspension. Done through an abdominal   incision using general or spinal anesthesia, this surgical procedure provides   support to the urethra and bladder neck, an area of thickened muscle where the bladder and urethra connect. There are many additional surgical procedures for stress incontinence in women, and new techniques continue to emerge. Some techniques use several small incisions for insertion of instruments and a laparoscope, a telescope that lets the surgeon see inside the abdomen and perform the procedure to raise the bladder or bladder neck or to remove urinary obstructions. Recovery from laparoscopic procedures may be faster and less painful than from open abdominal surgery, but as with any surgery, there are risks. In rare instances of stress incontinence, an artificial sphincter may be surgically   implanted. A hollow, ring-shaped device that encircles the urethra is placed   and filled with fluid that squeezes the urethra shut. A valve is implanted   under the skin that, when pressed, deflates the device, permitting urination.   This procedure is particularly helpful for men who have weakened urinary sphincters   as a result of an enlarged prostate gland or treatment of prostate cancer; it is rarely used in women with stress incontinence. Surgery to remove tissue-causing blockage in the urinary tract or to enlarge a small bladder may also treat overflow incontinence. Other treatments for incontinence include: A pessary     is a device inserted by a health care professional into the vagina to support  pelvic organs. It either presses against or supports the vagina wall and the  urethra, leading to less urine leakage in stress incontinence. It has to be  removed, cleaned and reinserted regularly to prevent possible urinary tract  infections and vaginal ulcers. There are different kinds of pessaries, and you  may have to try several to obtain a good fit. Some patients may be able to remove  and clean the pessary by themselves. Bulking     agents, such as collagen, carbon-coated zirconium beads or coaptite, may be  injected into tissues around the urethra to increase resistance and thus reduce  leakage. If collagen injections are used, you must have a skin test before the  injection to make sure you are not allergic to the material. The bulking agents  can be implanted by a health care professional under local anesthesia in about  five minutes. Women with stress incontinence who have poor urethra function  are best suited for this treatment. The injections become less effective over  time and may have to be repeated every six to 18 months. Catheters     may be used either constantly or occasionally for overflow incontinence not  caused by a blockage, or in women who cannot empty their bladders because of  muscle weakness, previous surgery or spinal cord injury. Your health care professional  can teach you how to insert the catheter through the urethra into the bladder  yourself so you can drain urine. If you use a catheter long-term, the tube will  be connected to a urine collection bag that you can wear on your leg underneath  clothing. You also need to be on the alert for urinary tract infections, which  are possible with long-term catheter usage. Sacral Nerve     Stimulation is an electronic stimulation therapy, comprising a surgically implanted  sacral nerve stimulator that resembles a pacemaker. It involves sending small,  electrical impulses to the sacral nerve that controls voiding function. The  continuous electrical stimulation reduces or eliminates urge incontinence. Botulinum  toxin type A (Botox) has shown some potential in the treatment of incontinence  . Some studies have shown that injections of Botox into the bladder muscle may  benefit people who have certain types of incontinence, particularly overactive  bladder. Although researchers have found Botox to be a promising therapy, the  Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not yet approved the drug for incontinence.  More studies are necessary to discover the exact role of Botox in incontinence  treatment. The use of radiofrequency energy to heat tissue in the lower urinary tract can also help improve symptoms of incontinence. When the tissue heals, it is usually stronger and firmer, which can reduce urinary leaks. Prevention Prevention Although there is no scientifically proven regimen to prevent urinary incontinence,   maintaining your general health is always a good step to head off illnesses   and disease that might cause incontinence. Healthy eating and weight control   may be preventive measures, as there have been links between obesity and incontinence.   Activities that exert pressure on pelvic muscles should be avoided, such as   straining during bowel movements or heavy lifting. Persistent coughing from smoking also can stress pelvic muscles, giving smokers another reason to quit. Performing pelvic muscle, or Kegel, exercises, especially during and after   pregnancy, and using topical forms of estrogen may play a role in possibly   preventing or treating incontinence. Your health care professional can advise whether such therapies are appropriate for you. Reducing caffeine and alcohol consumption can improve the body's ability to   retain urine. Both substances can inhibit production of a hormone that concentrates   and decreases the volume of urine by increasing reabsorption of fluid by the kidneys. Your health care provider may suggest you keep a chart to track your urinary   frequency to help determine whether your fluid intake is reasonable. Emptying   your bladder four to eight times in 24 hours is normal, as is urinating about   every three to four hours during the day, as well as getting up once at night to go to the bathroom. Although there is no specific diet to prevent incontinence, it is thought   certain foods and drinks can irritate the bladder and should be avoided if consuming them appears to produce or increase symptoms: carbonated beverages coffee or tea, including decaffeinated forms yogurt citrus juice and fruits tomatoes and tomato-based products bananas artificial sweeteners chocolate spicy foods vinegar processed meats and fish Some   medications may contribute to incontinence. Talk with your health care professional   if you experience urinary leakage while taking these drugs: diuretics, or "water pills," that increase urine flow, including bumetanide (Bumex), forosemide (Lasix), and theophylline (Bronkodyl) sedatives and sleep aids, including diazepam (Valium), flurazepam (Dalmane) and lorazepam (Ativan) antihistamines and cold and allergy medications, such as benztropine (Cogentin) antidepressants and antipsychotics, including amitriptyline (Elavil),       desipramine (Norpramin) and haloperidol (Haldol) angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, which are often prescribed for high blood pressure and congestive heart failure, including benazepril (Lotensin) and captopril (Capoten) Facts to Know Facts to Know Millions of Americans suffer from urinary incontinence, and most of them are women. Although    incontinence is most prevalent among older women, it can occur at any age and  in both genders. Many women with incontinence never discuss it with their health care professionals. In most cases, treatment can improve or cure incontinence, once the condition is brought to the attention to a health care professional. Incontinence     is a symptom,    not a disease. It has a variety of causes. Urine leakage can be caused by problems  that, when treated, stop the incontinence, including urinary tract infections,  bladder irritations and constipation. Incontinence also can be the result of  a serious illness or disease, such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's,  Alzheimer's, stroke or brain tumors. Long-term incontinence can be caused by  weak pelvic, bladder, or urinary sphincter muscles or a bladder that contracts  involuntarily and expels urine. Stress incontinence     is the most common form of incontinence among younger women. It consists of  urine leakage when any physical pressure is placed on the bladder, such as sneezing,  coughing or exercising. Another common type of urine control problem in women  is urge incontinence, characterized by a sudden, strong urge to urinate but  an inability to make it to the toilet in time. It can be caused by a disorder  known as "overactive bladder." Women can have a combination of these problems, known as mixed incontinence. Overflow incontinence,    which is the feeling that the bladder is always full, accompanied by dribbling  of urine, is rare in women. It can be caused by diabetes, all neurologic diseases  or an obstruction in the urinary tract that can lead to serious illness, so  if you experience such symptoms, see your health care professional. With treatment,     incontinence can be improved or cured in eight out of 10 cases. Treatment depends  on the type of incontinence and its causes. Therapy options include simple behavior  modification techniques women can learn to do themselves, medications, use of  special devices and surgery. Talk with your health care professional about what  treatments may help you. Behavior modification     techniques are often the first-line treatment for incontinence, but their success  depends on your ability to stick to with them. Pelvic muscle exercises, known  as Kegel exercises, strengthen weak muscles that support the urinary system.  Studies show that when done correctly, Kegel exercises can be effective in helping  to prevent stress incontinence. Bladder training may also change urination habits. There are     numerous surgical techniques for treating stress incontinence, and many of them  have been highly successful. Some procedures are minimally invasive and can  have quick recovery times. But surgery does carry risks and needs to be fully  discussed with your health care professional before you choose it as a treatment  option. Absorbent pads and adult diapers are generally recommended by health care professionals for use while undergoing other treatments or for long-term use in conjunction with other treatments—not as the only option available. Questions to Ask Questions to Ask Review the following Questions to Ask about incontinence/overactive bladder so you're prepared to discuss this important health issue with your health care professional. Is an illness or disease I have causing my incontinence, and will the leakage stop with treatment? What tests should I have to determine the cause of my incontinence? Is my incontinence temporary or long-term? What kind of incontinence do you suspect I have? What kind of treatment do you recommend? Are my prescription or over-the-counter medications contributing to my incontinence? Can my diet affect my bladder control? Will losing weight help me? Can pelvic exercises help me? How do I do them? What is bladder training? Will it help me control my incontinence? What medications are available to help me? What are their benefits and side effects? Will they interact with any other prescriptions or over-the-counter medicines I'm taking? Is menopause affecting my ability to control my urine? Will estrogen or hormone therapy help me? Can surgery solve my urine leakage problem? What procedure might help me, and what is its success rate? What are the potential risks of the procedure? What are the possible complications after the surgery? Key Q&A Key Q&A Isn't incontinence just part of the aging process? No,       incontinence, or the inability to control urination, can occur at any age.       Because urinary incontinence is most common in the elderly, and it is a       major cause of admission to nursing homes, it is often mistakenly thought of as a problem suffered only by older people. Why do I need to see a health care professional about urine leakage when I can just wear a pad? Incontinence     is not normal. It is a symptom that can have many causes. Some of those causes     can be problems that are easily treated to stop the incontinence, such as     urinary tract infections, bladder irritations and constipation. Other causes     can be more serious, such as an obstruction in the urinary tract, which can     cause urine to back up and harm the kidneys. The most common causes are weak     pelvic muscles that support the urinary tract and an overactive bladder,     both of which can be treated or improved in most cases. If you don't talk     to your health care professional, your problem could persist and even worsen.     Continual exposure to urine can result in skin rashes and infections. There's     no need to suffer with this problem when there are many treatment options that can improve it, or even cure it. What kinds of treatments are there for incontinence? There     are many kinds of therapies for incontinence, depending on the type you have     and the cause of your problem. Initial treatment may include pelvic muscle     exercises or changing your urination patterns or habits. Several medications     are available that may help and may be used in conjunction with pelvic muscle     exercises and bladder training techniques. Insertable devices and collagen     injections also may relieve urinary leakage. Additionally, there are more     than 100 surgical techniques, some of which have been highly successful.     Ask your health care professional about the risks and benefits of each option, and what course of therapy might best help you. I hear a lot of talk about overactive bladder. What's the difference between it and incontinence? An     overactive bladder can cause urge incontinence. When your bladder muscles     contract to expel urine when you don't want them to do so, you have an overactive     bladder. Frequent trips to the bathroom; sudden, overwhelming urges to urinate;     and an inability to get to a toilet in time are characteristics of urge incontinence caused by an overactive bladder. Must I have surgery to stop my urine leakage? Not     necessarily. Surgery can be highly successful in many cases of incontinence,     especially those caused by weak pelvic muscles that allow the bladder to     drop onto its neck and prevent the urinary sphincter muscles from staying     tight under pressure, causing leaks. But having an operation is not the only     treatment available. Talk to your health care professional about what treatments are best for you. Will I have incontinence when I reach menopause? There     is no way to predict who will become incontinent. It is true, however, that     many menopausal and postmenopausal women have stress incontinence. Weak pelvic     muscles that support the bladder and urethra may cause stress incontinence     . Decreases in levels of the hormone estrogen also have been associated with     less muscular pressure around the urethra, reduced urinary sphincter strength, thinning of the lining of the urethra and reduced bladder support. What can I do to prevent incontinence? There     is no scientifically proven regimen to prevent incontinence. However, maintaining     good overall health is always a good idea. And, since weak pelvic muscles     are at the root of many urine control problems, exercising them may help     maintain bladder control, especially during and after pregnancy. Your health     care professional can tell you whether pelvic exercises are right for you     and teach you how to do them correctly. Reducing caffeine and alcohol consumption     can improve the body's ability to retain urine. Also, some foods and beverages     may irritate the bladder and should be avoided if you're having urinary control     problems. Some prescription and over-the-counter medications can cause incontinence,     too. If you're experiencing incontinence, talk with your health care professional about it. My doctor wants me to have an urodynamic test. What is it, and will       it hurt? This     type of testing assesses bladder and sphincter function, including the pressure     and volume of urine in the bladder, and the pressure and flow of urine from     the bladder through the urethra. One test, called cystometry, measures contractions     of the bladder muscle as it fills and empties by inserting a catheter through     the urethra into the bladder and filling it with water. Occasionally, another     tiny tube is inserted into the rectum to measure pressure on your bladder     when you cough or exert pressure. Urodynamic testing also may include imaging,     such as x-ray or ultrasound, to examine changes in the position of the bladder     and urethra during urination, coughing or straining. The use of catheters     can be uncomfortable but these tests are well-tolerated. Imaging tests are generally noninvasive and do not hurt. Lifestyle Tips Lifestyle Tips Get the right diagnosis. Keep a diary of what you eat and drink, how often you go to the bathroom and how often you lose urine every day for a week. This can help you and your health care professional figure out specific factors that might be affecting your bladder control. Know your symptoms (for example, leaking urine after coughing or laughing or feeling a sudden strong urge to urinate) so you can describe them accurately to your health care professional. Make a list of the medications you are taking, as some can cause or aggravate incontinence. Eliminate bladder irritants from your diet. If you avoid alcohol, coffee and other sources of caffeine, carbonated beverages, fruit juices, certain fruits (such as strawberries, peaches, plums, grapes, pineapple and guava), and vinegar (such as that in salad dressing), you may make it easier for your body to maintain bladder control. These substances are known as bladder irritants. Quit Smoking and Lose Weight. Don't smoke-nicotine is a bladder irritant, and smoking may cause you to cough, which in turn can cause you to lose urine. Additionally, tobacco is a urinary tract carcinogen. Lose weight if you are overweight, since the excess weight can put pressure on your bladder. Don't delay a trip to the bathroom. Don't force yourself to delay a trip to the bathroom once your bladder is full. Make sure you have a place to go and can excuse yourself in social situations. Empty your bladder completely. It's best if you don't strain your muscles to empty your bladder completely. Instead, after you have finished, stand up or shift your position, wait a minute or two, and then sit down and urinate again. This method, called double voiding, helps ensure that you don't have residual urine in your bladder after a trip to the bathroom. Don't let incontinence hold you back. If embarrassment is keeping you from leaving the house or seeing friends or family, it's time to consult your health care professional. Most cases of incontinence can be cured or controlled with treatment. See your health care professional or a urologist or gynecologist (for women). Bring it up with words like, "I'm concerned because there have been several times when I couldn't control my bladder-and this hasn't happened to me before." Incontinence is not a normal part of aging. If your health care professional tells you so, find another who is better informed. Organizations and Support Organizations and Support For information and support on coping with Incontinence, please see the recommended organizations , books and Spanish-language resources listed below. Organizations American   Urogynecologic Society Website: http://www.augs.org Address: 2025 M Street NW, Suite 800 Washington, DC 20036 Phone: 202-367-1167 Email: info@augs.org American Urological Association Website: http://www.auanet.org Address: 1000 Corporate Blvd. Linthicum, MD 21090 Hotline: 1-800-RING-AUA (1-866-746-4282) Phone: 410-689-3700 Email: aua@auanet.org National Association for Continence (NAFC) Website: http://www.nafc.org Address: P.O. Box 1019 Charleston, SC 29402 Hotline: 1-800-BLADDER (1-800-252-3337) Phone: 843-377-0900 Email: memberservices@nafc.org National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) Website: http://www.niddk.nih.gov Address: Building 31, Room 9A06 31 Center Drive, MSC 2560 Bethesda, MD 20892 Phone: 301-496-3583 National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse Website: http://kidney.niddk.nih.gov/index.htm Address: 3 Information Way Bethesda, MD 20892 Hotline: 1-800-891-5390 Email: nkudic@info.niddk.nih.gov Simon Foundation for Continence Website: http://www.simonfoundation.org Address: PO Box 815 Wilmette, IL 60091 Hotline: 800-23-SIMON Phone: 847-864-3913 Society of Urologic Nurses and Associates Website: http://www.suna.org Address: East Holly Avenue, Box 56 Pittman, NJ 08071 Hotline: 1-888-827-7862 Email: suna@ajj.com Wound, Ostomy and Continence Nurses Society (WOCN) Website: http://www.wocn.org Address: 15000 Commerce Parkway, Suite C Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 Hotline: 1-888-224-WOCN (1-888-224-9626) Books 7 Steps to Normal Bladder Control:  Simple, Practical Tips & Techniques   for Staying Dry by Elizabeth Vierck A Seat on the Aisle, Please!: The Essential Guide to Urinary Tract Problems     in Women by                 Elizabeth Kavaler Conquering Bladder & Prostate Problems: The Authoritative Guide for     Men & Women by  Jerry   G. Blaivas, Jerry   G. Blaivas Ever Since I Had My Baby : Understanding,   Treating, and Preventing the Most Common Physical Aftereffects of Pregnancy   and Childbirth by  Roger P. Goldberg Irritable Bladder & Incontinence: A Natural Approach by         Jennifer M. Hunt Overcoming Bladder Disorders: Compassionate, Authoritative Medical And     Self-Help Solutions For Incontinence, Cystitis, Interstitial Cystitis, Prostate by  Rebecca   Chalker,  Kristene E. Whitmore The Incontinence Solution: Answers for Women of All Ages by  William H. Parker, Amy Rosenman, and Rachel Parker Urinary Incontinence Sourcebook by  Diane   Kaschak Newman,  Mary K. Dzurinko Spanish-language Resources Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center: A Teaching Hospital of Harvard     Medical School: Causes of Urinary Incontinence Website: http://www.bidmc.org/YourHealth/TherapeuticCenters/Search/SearchResults/SearchResult.aspx?ChunkID=123854 Address: Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center 330 Brookline Ave Boston, MA 02215 Phone: 617-667-7000 National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse Website: http://kidney.niddk.nih.gov/spanish/pubs/bcw_ez/index.htm Address: National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse Bethesda, MD 20892 Hotline: 1-800-891-5390 Email: nkudic@info.niddk.nih.gov Last date updated: Mon, 2010-04-19 Trans Fats May Raise Stroke Risk in Older Women Study found those who ate the most had 39% greater chance of trouble, though aspirin use helped By Ellin Holohan HealthDay Reporter Continue Reading Citrus Fruits May Lower Women's Stroke Risk Compound found in oranges, grapefruits  seems to have protective benefits, study finds By Kathleen Doheny HealthDay Reporter THURSDAY, Feb. 23 (HealthDay News) -- Eating oranges and other citrus fruits may help reduce stroke risk, new research suggests. Continue Reading Everyday Foods Add Up to Major Salt Problems: CDC Ten food types, including bread, account for higher risk of heart disease,  stroke, report says By Steven Reinberg HealthDay Reporter TUESDAY, Feb. 7 (HealthDay News) -- Americans still eat way too much salt, and much of it comes from dietary staples such as bread, poultry, cheese and pasta, U.S. health officials reported Tuesday. Continue Reading Health Tip: Improving Your Cholesterol Here are some suggestions (HealthDay News) -- High levels of LDL (the so-called "bad" cholesterol ) or triglycerides puts you at higher risk of heart attack and stroke. While there's no surefire way to lower bad cholesterol and triglycerides, the American Diabetes Association mentions these practices that can help lower your numbers: Continue Reading Low Vitamin D May Increase Stroke, Heart Attack Risk in Women Vitamin has anti-inflammatory effects on the arteries , researchers note TUESDAY, Nov. 15 (HealthDay News) --
Low levels of vitamin D may put women at greater risk for heart attack and stroke, according to one of several new studies on the important nutrient. Continue Reading Recommended Health Screenings for Men Part of good health is getting preventive health screenings. Routine checks of your blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar ( glucose ) levels, as well as your weight, might just save your life. These and other measures can be good indicators for future heart disease, diabetes and other serious health problems. And being male is a risk factor for certain diseases. Continue Reading 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » health center healthy living pregnancy and parenting midlife and beyond womenTALK Aging and Memory Allergies and Asthma Alternative Medicine Anxiety and Depression Birth Control Bone and Joint Health Brain and Nervous System Breast Health Cancer Caregiving Chronic Pain Diabetes Diet and Fitness Digestive Disorders Eye Health Flu and Cold Heart Health Men's Health Menopause Mental Health Military Veterans' Health and Wellness Pregnancy Reproductive and Pelvic Health Sexual Health Skin Health alternative medicine beauty and aging diet and nutrition recipes fitness managing stress sex and relationships planning a pregnancy pregnancy labor & delivery newborn care toddlers to teens healthy mom menopause aging well sex and intimacy womenTALK blog ask the expert about us | staff | board of directors | advisory groups | partnerships | content licensing | donate | job opportunities | news & media | contact us | privacy policy | site map Call Us: 1-877-986-9472 (toll-free) © 2012 National Women's Health Resource Center, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproducing content presented on this site in any form is prohibited without written permission. We comply with the HONco