Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

London Hypnotherapist, hypnotherapy for weight loss, hypnotherapy stop smoking, Hypnotherapy London' - Home Stop smoking Corporate Stop Smoking Weight loss Phobias Other problems Hypnosis / NLP Brian M Jacobs Testimonials Suggested Reading Articles Train with us Fees Links Hypnosis MP3's Contact us HYPNOTHERAPY IN LONDON For Weight Loss, to Stop Smoking, and for other issues Clinical hypnotherapy could help you make positive changes to your life. Not only can hypnotherapy help you  break habits and addictions but it can also help you overcome fears and phobias and various emotional issues such as anxiety and depression. My specialist areas are: If you really want to stop smoking In as little as One hour Without cravings or side effects Without  weight gain Using hypnosis and NLP With a very high success rate With 1 year's free backup support Find out more... Natural weight control Without dieting Break food addictions Overcome comfort eating Remove emotional blocks Become a slimmer you NEW: hypnotic gastric band Find out more ... Relieve stress and anxiety Remove fears and phobias Break habits and addictions Gain confidence and motivation Overcome sadness and depression Improve your sleep Overcome other problems Find out more.. . London Hypnotherapist If you're looking for a hypnotherapist in North London or hypnotherapist in Central London then London hypnotherapist Brian Jacobs could help you achieve your goals, using a combination of hypnosis and associated techniques. "Brilliant - it really worked! I went for a hypnotherapy session with Hypnotic Solutions to address my fear of heights. I am delighted to be able to let you know that I was able not only to ascend the elevator at Angel Tube station (which had previously made me feel panic stricken) but that I was able to work for the whole week on scaffolding and I was also able to access the room in which I was working in by walking on scaffolding attached to the exterior of the building, three floors up, without any fear of heights at all. In fact at points I quite enjoyed the "danger" element of being so high up! Thank you  for your help which made working in this job possible for me." Caroline Hypnotherapy can help you make positive changes to your life, easily and quickly. Hypnotherapy is very safe..... there are no harmful side effects, only good ones. In hypnosis you are aware of what's happening throughout and you remain in control. Historically, hypnotherapy has been one of those fields which is hard to define by many as it has been claimed to be part of the medical, psychological and complementary therapy fields. In truth, parts of its practise and use fit in to each of these fields, but it does not fit entirely into any one of them. One thing is for sure, that hypnotherapy works and is one of the most popular methods to help those with important issues. In general hypnotherapy could help with problems you have tried and failed to overcome on your own - often these are broken down into thoughts and actions you'd like to stop or emotional-related activity. People are often amazed by how many different issues hypnotherapy can help with, and often those who undergo hypnotherapy wish they'd heard about its benefits long before they come for therapy, in order to save a long period of suffering. Most people have heard of hypnosis for stopping smoking , weight loss hypnosis , and treating phobias using hypnosis . Also most are often surprised to hear that it can help you pass your driving test or become better at public speaking among other things. For those looking to stop smoking in London , Hypnotic Solutions has been helping people stop for over 10 years. Just one session combining hypnosis with NLP could help you walk out a non-smoker in as little as one hour. "I had smoked over 40 cigarettes a day for years - one visit to Mr Jacobs and I stopped. That was 8 months ago and I'm still not smoking, nor do I get cravings of any kind. I'm still amazed at how quickly and painless it was, and have recommended this teatment to others, every one of whom has also given up" JT-W, London Brian offers a professional yet caring approach to his clients. He has many years experience helping clients overcome their problems with hypnotherapy in London . Brian trained in Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) and hypnosis with Paul McKenna (the UK's foremost hypnotist) and Dr. Richard Bandler (the creator of NLP), before training in clinical  hypnotherapy. Brian is a registered clinical hypnotherapist in London . He is a  licensed master practitioner of NLP, and Certified Instructor of hypnotherapy . He is a member of the British National Register of Advanced Hypnotherapists, the General Hypnotherapy Register and the Hypnotherapy Association. He is also a member of the National Guild of Hypnotists. Brian also trained in  TFT (Thought Field Therapy) and is a member of the British Thought Field Therapy Association. He abides by  the code of ethics of all these organisations. So if you are looking for hypnotherapy in London for weight loss, to stop smoking or help for other issues then call or e-mail us and find out how we can help you. Brian is happy to provide a free phone consultation to discuss your needs. Listen to Brian Jacobs [ Requires Flash Player
  - download here ] IMPORTANT : All clients are required 
                              to complete a questionnaire form before undertaking hypnotherapy, in which 
                              you will be asked to disclose certain medical information. Whilst clinical 
                              hypnotherapy is very safe, if you are epileptic, or undergoing psychiatric 
                                treatment, then you should obtain a letter from your medical practitioner 
                            to confirm that you may have hypnotherapy. Hypnotherapist in London, Hypnotherapy Finchley London N3; Hypnotherapy Barnet, Hypnotherapy North London; Hypnotherapist in Finchley London N3; Hypnotherapist in North London; Harley Street hypnotherapy; Harley Street hypnotherapist XML Sitemap | HTML Sitemap North London hypnotherapist. Hypnotic Solutions - Office 233 Regents Park Road. London, N3 3LF , UK Copyright © 2008 Hypnotic Solu