Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Melatonin Most Effective For Sleep When Taken For Off Melatonin Most Effective For Sleep When Taken
For Off-Hour Sleeping May 01, 2006 Third Shift, Swing Shift and Jet-Lagged Travelers
Benefit Most Researchers from the Divisions of
Sleep Medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School have
found in a double-blind placebo-controlled clinical study, that melatonin, taken
orally during non-typical sleep times, significantly improves an individual’s
ability to sleep. This finding is particularly
important for rotating or night-shift workers, travelers with jet lag and
individuals with advanced or delayed sleep phase syndrome. The findings appear in the May 1,
2006 issue of the journal Sleep . Melatonin is a hormone produced by
the body at night in darkness, which helps the brain determine day and night to
help regulate sleep cycles and circadian timing. Retinal light exposure inhibits
the release of the hormone. Millions of Americans take melatonin
supplements to improve their sleep, yet the results of prior studies on the
efficacy of melatonin as a sleep-promoting agent have been mixed, according to
the Agency of Healthcare Research and Quality, which carried out an extensive
review of this topic two years ago.  The present study, conducted at the
Brigham and Women’s Hospital, sought to address this question. Thirty-six participants (21 men and
15 women), between the ages of 18 and 30 with no significant past or current
medical disorders, sleep disorders, or psychological disorders were chosen for
the study from a pool of applicants. The participants refrained from
alcohol, caffeine, nicotine, illicit substances and prescription and
non-prescription medications for three weeks prior to the start of the study.
They were studied in sound-proof suites free of time clues. Participants were
first studied for three days and nights in the lab on their traditional sleep
schedules to measure their normal sleep structure and melatonin production. “Participants were then kept on a
20-hour sleep-wake schedule, simulating a traveler crossing four time zones
eastward every day,” explained Dr. Charles Czeisler, Chief of the Division of
Sleep Medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and senior author of the study.
“For the next three weeks, thirty minutes before each sleep episode,
participants ingested either a placebo, 0.3milligrams (mg), or 5.0mg of
pharmaceutical grade melatonin.” The researchers found that sleep
efficiency during the six hour, 40 minute episodes was significantly higher in
the groups that took melatonin during times when the body was not producing melatonin. At those times, participants taking 5.0mg of melatonin had
a sleep efficiency of 83 percent and those taking 0.3mg melatonin had a sleep
efficiency of 84 percent. Sleep efficiency in both of these
groups was significantly greater than that in participants taking placebo, who
had a sleep efficiency of 77 percent. There was no significant difference in
sleep efficiency among all participants during times when melatonin was being
produced in the body. James K. Wyatt, Ph.D., lead author of
the study, Diplomate, American Board of Sleep Medicine and now acting
Co-Director of the Sleep Disorders Service and Research Center at Rush
University Medical Center in Chicago stated, “A landmark feature of this
comprehensive research was the study of 24 successive sleep episodes in the same
participants, including over 1,000 sleep recordings, across a full range if
circadian phases – the body’s internal 24-hour timing system. We were able
to definitively show in these healthy young adults that the use of melatonin as
a sleep-aid was only beneficial for sleeping when the body wasn’t already
releasing its own supply of melatonin.” “These data leave little doubt
about the effectiveness of melatonin in alleviating sleep disturbances when
attempting to sleep at the wrong time of day, at least under laboratory
conditions,” continued co-author Derk-Jan Dijk, now Director of the Surrey
Sleep Research Centre, Surrey , England . Czeisler concluded: “Melatonin
enabled these participants to obtain an extra half hour of sleep when they
attempted to do so during the day, at a time when they were not producing
melatonin themselves.  Melatonin did not help these young adults sleep at
night, when their body was already producing melatonin.  These finding have
implications for millions of people who attempt to sleep at a time that is out
of synch with the brain’s internal clock.” ### The research was supported by the
National Institute on Aging, the National Institutes of Health and the