Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Griffin Letter Dated: January 11, 2001 Letter to the Editor Los Angeles Times I am the Founder of The 
	Cancer Cure Foundation, a non-profit organization that, for 26 years, has 
	been dedicated to the task of compiling information on alternative cancer 
	treatments from around the world. I am in strong disagreement with 
	the views expressed by Barrie Cassileth in the article entitled "Laetrile by 
	Any Other Name Is Still Bogus" which appeared in your publication on January 
	1, 2001. Our findings are that Laetrile is among the best treatments for 
	cancer that has ever been found. It does not work 100% of the time (what 
	therapy does?), but our studies show that Laetrile is significantly more 
	effective than radiation or chemotherapy. Conventional medicine is 
	losing the fight against cancer. After decades of research and the 
	expenditure of billions of dollars, the cancer rate still continues to 
	climb. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States, 
	second only to heart disease. Thirty-three percent of all women will develop 
	cancer in their lifetime — fifty percent of all men! Virtually every family 
	now is at risk. Conventional medicine is further from a cure for cancer than 
	when the search began. Your readers should be cautioned that Barrie 
	Cassileth is employed by the Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, 
	which has a reputation for scientific fraud. In 1974, it was the scene of 
	one of the greatest scientific scandals of the century. Dr. William 
	Summerlin, one of the top-ranking researchers there, claimed to have found a 
	way to prevent transplanted tissue from being rejected. To prove his case, 
	he displayed white mice with square black patches of fur, claiming that skin 
	grafts from black mice were now accepted by white mice. It was later 
	discovered that he had created the black patches with a marker pen. On a much more serious level was the well-publicized Laetrile test conducted 
	at Sloan-Kettering in the 1970s. The final report stated there was no 
	evidence that Laetrile was effective. However, employees inside 
	Sloan-Kettering secretly sent copies of the actual lab reports to the press 
	that proved just the opposite. Dr. Ralph Moss, who was Assistant Director of 
	Public Affairs at Sloan-Kettering, was one of the whistle-blowers. He was 
	fired because of it. The Sloan report was an insult to truth and a 
	prostitution of science. A well-documented account of this episode is the 
	chapter entitled "Genocide in Manhattan," in World without Cancer, by G. 
	Edward Griffin. It will change your view regarding the integrity at 
	Sloan-Kettering. Sincerely, G. Edward Griffin IMPORTANT LINKS Send general questions 
						to: info@apricotsfromgod.com Billing 
						an/or shipping questions to sales@apricotsfromgod.com Amidalla Search Engine Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.apricotsfromgod.info Raw apricot kernels have 
						been known by many scientists to be the answer to 
						cancer.