
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:27:19 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 21:27:19 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Whooping Cough - Share Your Experience With Whooping Cough About.com Health Cold & Flu Cold & Flu Search Cold / Flu Symptoms/Diagnosis Treatment Flu Shot Facts Share Free Cold & Flu Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Readers Respond: Your Experience With Whooping Cough Responses: 3 By Kristina Duda, R.N. , About.com Guide Updated May 12, 2009 This content is not monitored by About.com's Medical Review Board . Before acting on this information, check with your health provider. See More About: whooping cough coughs vaccines Share Your Story From the article: What Is Pertussis/Whooping Cough? Whooping cough, or pertussis, is on the rise around the world. Although many people have been vaccinated against it, the vaccine may not provide lifelong protection and many people may need a booster. Have you or a loved one ever been diagnosed with whooping cough? If so, you know that it is not just another cough. Share your story and let others know how whooping cough affected you. Share Your Story Lyn Well they say it isn't possible to have whooping cough more than once. Hogwash--I am just getting over my 3rd bout of it and yet 2 months before Christmas had the Whooping cough booster. Was also immunised as a child. After 3 weeks of antibiotics my chest still not clear and now have fungal virus in the lungs on top of the whooping cough. How ridiculous is this in an adult?? —Guest Lyn from Gympie What to do for whooping cough I just wanted you to know what I did to help my whooping cough. I am a 54 year old woman.  The severe coughing spells began Saturday December 12th. I vomited several times the first night, and then by the next morning and afternoon I had severe "pins and needles" pains on my skin of the upper back and chest.  
Anyway, on the Sunday (the second) evening I began to take .5 mL of colloidal silver solution by mouth (3 ppm) 4 times per day.  I would just let it sit in the back of my throat until I swallowed naturally. I also began to take Elderberry capsules 2x per day.  
By that night I had only one coughing spell and it was not very severe.  By the next day I had maybe two coughing fits all day, and very minor "pins and needles" feeling.  By Monday I no longer had any coughing fits at all.  I have not had a return of symptoms.  I have continued taking the silver and Elderberry for two weeks.  But I feel fine.  Hope this works for you. —BBlockerson Misdiagnosed Whooping Cough As a nurse, you think I would have known I had whooping cough.  I had the tell-tale "whooping" sound after nearly cracking my ribs and vomiting from coughing so hard.  However, I mistakenly thought my childhood vaccine protected me against that.
I was originally diagnosed by my physician as having bronchitis.  One round of antibiotics did nothing to improve my cough.  I went back to my physician and she determined I was experiencing an asthma exacerbation with bronchitis and started me on steroids and inhalers.
After several more days without improvement, I went back yet again and described the coughing fit I had the night before.  I was coughing so hard that I thought I would break my ribs.  I had tears pouring down my face and started to dry heave, like I was going to vomit.  Then I described my "whooping" sound.  She diagnosed whooping cough and started me on heavy duty antibiotics and I'm just now starting to return to normal - 3 weeks later! —Angela_Morrow Share Your Story Your Experience With Whooping Cough Guest Name * Login with Member Name or Register Response Title Response Email (optional) Receive a one-time notification when your response is published. Post my response on Facebook when it's published. User Agreement Could it Be Whooping Cough? Evaluate Your Cough Common Cold Symptoms Interactive Symptom Checker Protect Yourself. Get Vaccinated Tetanus/Pertussis Vaccine Flu Vaccine Pneumonia Vaccine Related Articles Cough -- Common Causes of a Cough Whooping Cough - Pertussis - What Is Pertussis - What is Whooping Cough Pertussis - Vaccines Whooping Cough Symptoms - Learn to Identify Whooping Cough Symptoms Whooping Cough - What is Whooping Cough Kristina Duda, R.N. Cold & Flu Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches colloidal silver solution pins and needles fungal virus whooping cough pertussis lyn Explore Cold & Flu Must Reads What Is the Cold/Flu? Symptoms of the Cold/Flu Diagnosing the Cold/Flu Treating the Cold/Flu Answers to Your Flu Shot Questions Most Popular Viral Infection Colds and Pregnancy Evaluate Cough Symptoms Weather and Illness Cough Medications See More About: whooping cough coughs vaccines By Category Common Cold Flu Prevention Check Your Symptoms See a Healthcare Provider Medication and Tools Vaccines Pneumonia Bronchitis Other Common Illnesses When Your Child is Sick Glossary Cold & Flu About.com Health Cold & Flu Other Common Illnesses Whooping Cough - Share Your Experience With Whooping Cough Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod