< 0.05), but no difference between acupuncture and drug groups (P > 0.05). There was a difference in low density lipoprotein between before treatment  and  after  treatment  in  both  groups (P < 0.05). 3.5 Blood rheology The blood rheology was detected before and after treatment in both groups (Table 5). There were no differences in whole high-shear reduced viscosity, whole low-shear reduced viscosity, hematocrit (HCT) between before treatment and after treatment in both groups and between acupuncture and drug groups after treatment (P > 0.05). There was a difference in fibrinogen between before and after treatment in drug group (P < 0.05), indicating that drugs have better effect than acupuncture in increasing fibrinogen (P < 0.05). 4 Analysis and Discussion According to the epidemiological survey made by WHO, the established risk factors of stroke primarily consist of hypertension, heart diseases and diabetes meuitus, and other risk factors include high blood lipid, obesity, smoking and alcohol[2]. Cerebral atherosclerosis is the pathological basis of cerebral stroke, while lipid metabolism disorder and normal blood rheology is the cardinal pathological changes of atherosclerosis[3].Compared with healthy people, stroke patients had high blood lipid, it leads to poor blood flow, hemangioendothelial injury, decreasing erythrocyte deformation, platelet rupture, vascular collagen exposure and coagulation factors activation, which promote the production of embolism and hemorrhage[4]. Blood rheology reflects the fluxion, viscosity, coagulability, yield strength and its influential factors; it is one part of many pathological processes or bridge[5]. Therefore, blood rheology abnormality is one of the causes of cerebral ischemia[6]. Research results at home and abroad also demonstrated that blood rheology abnormality usually came before atherosclerosis, which played a vital role on vascular injury, microcirculation disturbance and thromogenesis[7,8]. Blood lipid and blood rheology may affect each  other;  specifically,  elevated  contents  of lipoprotein and cholesterol can slow down blood velocity and hence cause thrombosis. It is reported that the patients with the acute stage of transient ischemic attack had serum lipid and lipoprotein abnormality, higher contents of whole blood viscosity, plasma blood viscosity and fibrinogen than healthy people, revealing that abnormality of blood lipid and blood rheology is an important factor of the attack of cerebral stroke[9]. Acupuncture has rich experience in the treatment of stroke. Early in Nei Jing (Inner Classic ), acupuncture was considered as a primary means to treat stroke. From the Qin and Han Dynasties down, a great many physicians applied acupuncture and moxibustion to treat stroke and achieved excellent results.  In  modern  times,  a  large  number  of experiments have shown that, in the treatment of cerebral stroke, acupuncture could dilate blood vessels,   accelerate   blood   flow,   improve microcirculation, increase blood flow to the brain, relieve cerebral ischemia and anoxia, promote the establishment of cerebral collateral circulation, and abate the harm to cerebral tissues[10]. Researches at home and abroad concluded similar results[l1-14]. In the past 20 years, the quality of life received more and more attention, and became a hot spot in the world; the researches concerning cerebral stroke increased day by day[15]. With the gradually increasing life span, the quality of life of the old people has been believed to be an important subject in geratology. It is argued that building a reasonable lifestyle and strengthening mental health education are the key measures to the the prevention and treatment of heart and cerebrovascular diseases in the old people[16]. Based upon other people's clinical researches, the author optimized the treatment methods and hence adopted scalp acupuncture and body acupuncture to treat acute ischemic stroke; in this method, only manual techniques were used and such auxiliary methods as electric acupuncture was not used. It is concluded that early acupuncture treatment for stroke is rather safe and does not give rise to needling syncope, blood pressure fluctuation, dizziness and headache, and cardiac discomforts. In comparison with drug group, the neurological deficit score was obviously improved in acupuncture group, indicating that acupuncture  can  significantly  improve  the functions of the affected limbs. There were striking differences  in ADL between before and after treatments in both groups, but the acupuncture group had better effects than drag group, revealing that this acupuncture therapy has positive effects on acute stroke by improving the patients' disability, increasing patients' quality of life. Therefore, it is of definite feasibility and great social significance of acupuncture in the early treatment of stroke. Acupuncture works similarly as drugs on hyperlipidemia and high viscosity in this research, but acupuncture works differently from drugs on fibrinogen; in other words, acupuncture tends to  increase  fibrinogen more significantly than drags. The reasons may be as follows: the first reason is the treatment course. Acupuncture serves to regulate the body's immunity and its acting time depends on the individual constitution and needling techniques, which requires further  researches.  The  second  reason  is  the administration of other medicines. Hyperlipidemia patients often take hypolipidemics and stroke suffers take  antiplatelet  aggregation  agents  and  anticoagulants. In this research, the effects of these medicines cannot be ruled out. The third reason is the detection methods and apparatuses. All these factors should be studied to optimize the acupuncture therapy for th Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Previous [1] [2] [3] Next Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department >> PER: Infrared Radiation Temperature Comparison >> NEXT: Acupuncture-Moxibustion on Knee Osteoarthritis Extensive Reading The most effective slimming capsule in 2009- New feeling! Life-cultivation and rehabilitation TCM Answers: health life should be talked freely TCM and life Mild Reminder Ten days Qigong Study Tour Gongfu and Painting Tour 2 weeks Chinese cuisine study tour to Guilin Traditonal Chinese Medicine Study Tour One week Cupping study tour to Guilin Embroidery  and Clothing and Cuisine Tour Science of prescriptions Diagnostics: diagnostics- TCM magic treasure！ Name: EMail: Theme: Questions: Customized Tours Design your own decision with our help to meet your unique interests.You don't have to compromise,just do exactly what you want to do!we will arrange the satisfied plan according to your demand.It includes the following aspects: Study Tours Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Special Recommendation No Constipation & Halitosis   No annoyance Treat hemorrhoid with herbal meidicne  get rid of trouble Fuling-Swelling Care Formula Yinchen-Skin Disease Formula Graceful Shape Begins from New Feeling! Jew’s – ear granule Yangshuo China Oriental Discovery TCM Service Service Platform for TCM Clinical Help TCM Search Tool TCM expert group zone used for issuing your works Health Archive TCM literature Related Reading Acupuncture E-magzine Meridian and collateral illustration Acupuncture and moxibustion illustration Copyright©2003,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department About Us | TCM | Reflexology | Acupuncture | Taiji | Qigong | Herbal Tea | Products | Advertise | Contact us | TCM Union | Site Map Tel: +86-773-5820588 Fax: +86-773-5845295 E-mail: tcmadv