<http://asthmatreatmentsteps.com/?p=21>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 07:27:41 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural Cures for Asthma Asthma Treatment Steps Effective Treatment for Asthma Home About TOP Natural Asthma Treatment Read the Review Dramatic Asthma Relief Report Topics Asthma Treatment Asthma Medications Home Remedies for Asthma Natural Cures for Asthma Tweet Tweet Natural cures for asthma are better than medications at some point because they reduce the risk of harsh side effects. There’s no denying that drugs are effective in keeping asthma at bay, but the excessive use of these medications may produce adverse side effects. At times, excessive use of medications can make them ineffective so the patient stops responding. Plus, many asthma medications contain steroids, which can affect the other organs of the body adversely. In fact, many people who take asthma medications with steroids suffer from weight problems. It helps to seek a natural cure for asthma because not all people can afford to buy asthma medications, yet this condition does not spare anyone. It does not make a distinction according to socioeconomic class. Your initial line of defense when it comes to an asthma cure is to relieve the initial symptoms. Many people suffer from coughing and wheezing. These really make breathing a chore. Drinking lots of fluids will help ease this difficulty. Drinking mint-based and eucalyptus tea will also relieve the tightness in the chest that asthmatic people usually experience. Honey is one of the delicious natural asthma cures . This is an age-old remedy that is widely accepted because it does not contain any harsh elements and does not have a repulsive taste. You can mix this with your mint tea or lemon juice because at this point, you need a lot of Vitamin C. You can also consume it as it is, around 1 tablespoon a day. It’s also good if it’s mixed with a solution of apple cider vinegar and water. The honey will make the mucus thin so that the air passages are unblocked. One of the more long-term asthma natural cures is acupuncture. This alternative treatment is very relaxing and has positive effects that extend beyond asthma relief. It addresses health issues by exerting pressure on certain body parts using micro needles. Take note that acupuncture will not relieve asthma instantly. However, remember that you are aiming for a long-term asthma natural cure . Consistent acupuncture sessions will surely yield you results. Consult an expert first and explain that you want a cure for asthma so the expert will hit the right pressure points. Finally, exercise still tops the list. You should aim for exercises like yoga and swimming, which focus on your breathing. Both will help manage weight – a major contributor to asthma – and will improve your breathing. They burn a lot of fat, yet these natural cures for asthma are not too rigorous to do. Related Posts: Simple Home Remedies for Asthma Natural Asthma Treatment to Consider 5 Natural Remedies for Asthma Leave A Comment Have Your Say Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Don't subscribe All Replies to my comments Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. Terms | P