Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Asthma Treatment Asthma Asthma Treatment When it comes to asthma treatment, there are a few different approaches that can be used.  Asthma, like all medical disorders, can be treated with conventional treatment and medication.  However, some people prefer to use alternative approaches that involve herbs or other natural supplements, or alternative health therapies like acupuncture or yoga. The conventional treatment for asthma typically involves the use of medications.  There are usually two types of medications typically involved, short-acting medications that provide fast relief, and medications that provide control over the long term. Short-acting medications are those that are used to quickly alleviate the symptoms of an asthma attack.  The most common type of short-acting medication is administered through a rescue inhaler, or bronchodilator.  The most commonly prescribed short-acting medication is Albuterol. Two other types of short-acting medications sometimes prescribed are oral corticosteroids, such as prednisone, and anticholinergics, such as Atrovent. Medications that help control asthma over the long term may include inhaled corticosteroids, such as Qvar or Flovent, which are frequently prescribed.  There are several other types of long-term control medications that may also be prescribed by your doctor, such as long-acting beta-2 antagonists. If allergies trigger your asthma, treatment may involve medication that helps alleviate the allergy symptoms in order to decrease asthma symptoms.  Singular is a popular medication in this category. Alternative treatments for asthma are becoming more popular.  Yoga has been found to help control and reduce asthma systems, as it teaches you to breathe in a controlled manner, feel more relaxed, and strengthens your lungs.  Since stress can exacerbate asthma symptoms, yoga is helpful in that it helps reduce stress. Some people have found acupuncture and chiropractic treatment as helpful in reducing their asthma symptoms.  However, there is much controversy among medical experts as to the true efficacy of these therapies with regards to asthma. There are a variety of herbal and other natural supplements, such as fish oil, that are used by many people to help with asthma symptoms.  It is always best to consult with your doctor before taking any supplements. Part of asthma treatment also includes reducing environmental and lifestyle factors that may exacerbate symptoms.  These may include keeping your home as free as possible from dust, pet dander, and other irritants that may trigger an asthma episode. The goal of asthma treatment should be to decrease symptoms as much as possible, prevent asthma attacks, keep your lungs functioning as normal as possible, and allow you to participate in everyday activities.  Work with your health care provider to determine the best course of asthma treatment if you have asthma. Navigation Home What is Asthma What Causes Asthma Asthma Types Asthma Symptoms Asthma Treatment Asthma Attack Asthma Medications Short-Acting Asthma Medications Long-Acting Adult Onset Asthma Asthma in Children Allergy-Induced Asthma Exercise Induced Asthma Asthma Inhaler Asthma Singular Asthma Natural Treatment Asthma Air Purifier Asthma Attack Remedy Asthma Facts Useful Links Life Quotes Love Quotes Sitemap ©  Copyright 