Set-Cookie: _helium_session=8031840d10c01a4a1bd0aa5f5c06f2e8; path=/
Expires: Wed, 11 Apr 2012 18:39:43 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
P3P: policyref="http://www.helium.com/P3P/PolicyReferences.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CURa ADMa DEVa TAIa OUR BUS IND UNI COM NAV INT"
Connection: close

Treatment options for all types of urinary incontinence - by Nicole Evans M.D. - Helium How To Guides | Community Where knowledge rules Search Helium Health & Fitness Treatments & Diseases Alzheimer's and Dementia Arthritis Brain & Nerve Conditions Cancer Diabetes Digestive Diseases Heart Disease & Heart Attack HIV / AIDS Hypertension & High Cholest Infectious Diseases Kidney & Urologic Diseases Respiratory Diseases Sexually Transmitted Diseases Disease (Other) Home > Health & Fitness > Treatments & Diseases > Kidney & Urologic Diseases Treatment options for all types of urinary incontinence Top Article All 3 Articles Tweet 1 of 3 by Nicole Evans M.D. Created on : August 07, 2009 There are several types of urinary incontinence.  The most common types are stress incontinence, urge incontinence, overflow incontinence and mixed urgency and stress incontinence. Treatment of Stress Urinary Incontinence Kegel exercises that train the pelvic muscles and strengthen the pelvic floor are extremely effective for stress urinary incontinence.  Biofeedback techniques and weighted vaginal cones may help the woman perform these exercises effectively. Kegel exercises must be continued for the improvement in stress incontinence to be maintained. Urinary stress incontinence may also be treated with pessaries and continence tampons that can be placed vaginally to aid in urethral compression.  Urethra plugs and caps can be placed and removed by the patient as well. Surgical therapy can be effective in pelvic relaxation causing stress incontinence.  The aim is to restore normal pelvic anatomy.  There are many different surgical approaches and each woman will require an individual approach determined together with her surgeon.  The surgery may be completed through the vagina, through the abdomen or through both. Treatment of Urge Incontinence Urge incontinence is also called Detrusor Overactivity.  The detrusor is a muscle that causes the pressure within the bladder to elevate when it contracts.  An overactive detrusor muscle has uninhibited contractions that increase bladder pressure, override the urethral pressure and cause the individual to leak urine. If urge incontinence is occurring after bladder surgery or pelvic surgery with extensive bladder manipulation then these symptoms are usually transient and will resolve with time. Otherwise, it may be helpful to keep a 3 day voiding diary.  Asking the patient to keep track of when and what she drinks and how often and how much she voids (urinates) can provide insight into the cause.  Urodynamic testing can then be done. Bladder training with or without biofeedback therapy has been extremely successful in treating urge incontinence .  This involves increasing the patient's bladder control and capacity by gradually increasing the amount of time between voids. Medications may be useful for some individuals.  These include ditropan (oxybutynin chloride), detrol (tolterodine tartrate), pro-banthine (propantheline bromide) and oxytrol (transdermal oxybutynin chloride) among others. Treatment of Mixed Urgency and Stress Incontinence. Unfortunately, research has yet to show which treatment offers the best outcomes for mixed incontinence.  The physician should work with each patient on an individual patient to afford the best chance at symptom improvement in urinary incontinence . Treatment of Overflow Incontinence An individual with overflow incontinence has a bladder which has stretched to accommodate an increased volume of urine.  The increased volume may be due to an outlet obstruction blocking the urethra.  A common cause is prostatic hypertrophy in men. In overflow incontinence the detrusor muscle has lost the ability to contract.  Urine leaks out only after the bladder pressure exceeds the urethral pressure.  The patient the leaks small amounts of urine. Overflow incontinence is treated by identifying the underlying cause.  Until this time self-catheterization to empty urine is required till the detrusor muscle is able to return to normal function. Learn more about this author, Nicole Evans M.D. . Click here to send this author comments or questions. Below are the top articles rated and ranked by Helium members on: Treatment options for all types of urinary incontinence 1 of 3 by Nicole Evans M.D. There are several types of urinary incontinence.  The most common types are stress incontinence, urge incontinence, overflow 2 of 3 by Kristijan Todoroski Urinary incontinence is frequent problem in elderly women, especially after the menopause. It's defined as involuntary leakage 3 of 3 by Jennifer Kirkman Treatment options for all types of urinary incontinence As far as treating all types of urinary incontinence there are a HIDE Tweet Email this article Print article Related Titles: Urinary incontinence in dogs: Causes and treatments Causes and treatment of stress urinary incontinence Toviaz: Treatment for urinary incontinence / overactive bladder How to deal with urinary incontinence during pregnancy Using exercise to control urinary incontinence Helium Debate Cast your vote! Do onions really help cure cancer? Yes or No Click for your side. On the home page Most popular titles What is the secret to Madonna's success? Tips for eating in restaurants on a gluten-free diet What next for the Large Hadron Collider? Why high unemployment is likely to be a problem for years What to do if a recruiter asks for your Facebook password How to back up pictures from a digital camera Interesting presentation ideas for ivy in the garden Super simple diet rules How to teach children to be kind to others Tips for successfully outsourcing Things to know before breeding a cat How to buy organic fruit and vegetables on a tight budget Cloudy urine: When to worry Medical issues associated with strong, cloudy or strong-smelling urine How to lose 10 pounds in a week Finding free lists of Weight Watchers points Allergic reactions: Swollen lips Do your gums bleed when you brush your teeth? Cause and treatment The benefits of almond milk Foods that increase estrogen What are the signs of having blocked arteries The importance of fasting before a blood test Exercises that improve lung capacity Getting rid of bumps on your tongue Foods that increase testosterone How to treat a bitten tongue or lip Natural ways to increase serotonin and endorphins The side effects of eating too much fiber How to remove yellow tartar from teeth Possible causes of a low white blood cell count The causes of adult bed-wetting Black tongue: Common causes and treatments What you need to know about allergies to bananas How to get rid of a dry cough The dangers of high fructose corn syrup The effects of soda on your body How does the respiratory system work? Hip and leg pain in children: When to worry How to lose fat from thighs and hips The health benefits of fennel seed Home remedies for stomach flu prevention and treatment What it means to find blood in the toilet How long does marijuana (THC) stay in your body? Top of the foot pain causes The different kinds of nuts and their nutritional value Ways to detoxify your body naturally Tips for relieving sinus pressure Ways to boost energy without suffering from tiredness later How to lose 20 pounds in two weeks Home remedy for staph infection 10 things you shouldn’t eat if you want to lose weight The health benefits of dried apricots Causes for black spots in vision Foods you can’t eat after gastric bypass surgery Swollen uvula causes Why health is important What to eat after your wisdom teeth are extracted The benefits of apple cider vinegar for hair The effects of eating late at night Can you eat too much yogurt in one day? How much is too much vitamin B12 ? How to use tea tree oil for the treatment of scabies Best exercise for thigh reduction What is black line stain on teeth? The pros and cons of cochlear implants How to repair old injuries that are going to complicate working out Remove flat warts from your face at home Best exercises for bad knees COPD screening quiz: Are you a pink puffer or a blue bloater? Exercises that burn the most calories Home remedies for chest congestion Ways to whiten your teeth at home What is chlorine allergy Home remedies for stomach pain in toddlers Negative side effects of fish oil capsules Food to avoid during menstrual periods What causes blood in human stools? How to tell if you sleep too much Vitamin B overdose symptoms Making healthy choices at a Chinese take-out restaurant How to deal with post nasal drip, throat clearing and allergies The 1000-calorie diet explained Signs of emotional immaturity Prostate biopsy side effects Causes and effects of low self-esteem Mint leaves and health benefits Best types of fish to eat when you want to lose weight How staring at a computer all day can affect your eyes Possible health benefits of crying How to relieve gallbladder pain Vitamin C overdose symptoms How to know if a tooth nerve is dying Facts about oral saliva drug testing The link between Ambien and hallucinations How to donate blood for money How to deal with people with borderline personality disorder Possible causes of blood in urine How to get rid of excess mucous naturally Early signs of mouth cancer Why sourdough bread is healthier than whole wheat bread Why does my tooth hurt after a filling Stomach and intestinal problems from alcohol abuse Men, are you ejaculating too fast? Causes of ear drainage How many calories a day do teens need? Easy exercises to do at home Which is better for losing weight, brown rice or white rice? How do zinc tablets help you? Causes of shortness of breath after eating Prescription drug prices: CVS vs. Wal-Mart pharmacy The side effects of using a neti pot Treatment for a low white blood cell count How to avoid stomach flu Home remedies for postnasal drip and sinus infections Understanding what happens when a code blue is called in a hospital How psyllium husk can help with weight loss Foods arthritis sufferers should avoid How to tighten a loose tooth Allergies to nightshade: What you need to know Why you lose your eyelashes Recognizing and coping with narcissistic abuse How to irrigate the ear How to know if you have worms What to do in case of Xanax overdose How to keep your body fit and healthy How to make your waist smaller Sexually transmitted diseases: Molluscum contagiosum The danger in drinking cold water after meals Signs, symptoms and causes: How to know if you are a hypochondriac Symptoms of vitamin b-complex deficiency How to lose 10 pounds fast How to stitch a wound when away from civilization How to make your own protein shakes Causes of vitamin D deficiency What are the best ways to keep fit and stay healthy? Safe exercises for obese and overweight people Tips on staying awake after you’ve been up all night The future of pharmaceutical research Why smoking should be banned in all public places The dangers associated with Ginette 35 (Diane 35) oral combined contraceptive How heroin affects the brain The health benefits of peanuts Questions you ask after a DNC Causes of severe nose bleeds in seniors Improving thin uterine lining naturally Pilonidal cyst: Surgery treatment and recovery time The best filling foods for Weight Watchers members How to properly do a squat Are lemons good for your health? Home remedies for constant ringing in the ear How to find out the base curve and diameter you need for contact lenses Should marijuana be legalized? Using apple cider vinegar for keeping your teeth healthy Will exercise before breakfast burn more fat Early signs of pancreatic cancer Causes of bumps on your tongue How to get rid of menstrual pain without using medication Causes of tinnitus Best way to get fit Is titanium dioxide in food safe? How to pull your own teeth How to lose weight without going to the gym Herbal remedies for chest infections How many calories should you eat The benefits of doing pull-ups How to lessen the appearance of chicken pox scars Depression: It can make you feel tired all the time Home remedies for baby fever How to cure bloating The positive effects of alcohol The link between fast food and health problems What does a nutritionist do? What should I eat and drink if I want to take care of my singing voice? How to stop a runny nose The dangers of expired drugs Gaslighting: The extremes of emotional abuse Leptin supplements and weight loss The basic function of cellulose Ways to boost your natural endorphins and general happiness Allergic reactions to bell peppers Health benefits of coconut water Benefits of bicycle riding How to calculate calories burned when walking When to see a doctor for cough Ear pain causes How to cure a persistent dry cough Eating aloe vera and the benefits it gives Hula hoop fitness Lemon water and honey with cinnamon: A drink that can keep you healthy in all seasons Sexsomnia (sleep sex) causes How often should you work your abs? The effects of red wine on skin and health The health benefits of kefir Signs of pancreatic cancer Review of devices designed to increase lung function Medical issues associated with dark, cloudy or clear urine How to get rid of a cold sore Should people take vitamins every day? Spondyloarthritis: Symptoms and treatment Why smoking can trigger hiccups What is a an alcohol induced blackout and why is it dangerous? What’s the best way to cure a headache? Flomax side effects How cavities between teeth are filled How to prevent winter stomach viruses How depression can affect your relationships Nutritional benefits of prunes How to deal with a palette expander Is taking expired pills OK? Polycystic Ovary Disease (PCOD): Symptoms & treatment Reasons for biting nails Benefits of a seaweed body wrap Should I worry about my 10 year old girl’s weight? Entamoeba histolytica: Signs and symptoms Allergies to strawberries explained What are the side effects of high fructose corn syrup? Causes of translucent teeth Vitamins that help getting rid of dark circles under eyes Lipoma: Diagnosis and treatment What are micronutrients? How to lose weight after a c-section How long does postpartum depression last? How to deal with mixed feelings What is the IPV vaccine? How to get rid of a sore throat What vitamins should I take when working out? Reasons to become an organ donor How to choose a needle size for an injection How to treat blisters The benefits and origins of rose water Does the Special K diet work? How to tell if someone is suicidal How to diagnose black streaks in your fingernails Which is the better exercise: Running or swimming Healthcare: The meaning of professionalism Dealing with a nervous breakdown How to keep a healthy kidney and liver The benefits of eating smoked salmon Odwalla superfood Immediate physiological response to training and physiological adaptation to aerobic training How to tell if you have a thyroid problem? The facts about alcohol allergy Vitamin D overdose symptoms Best foods to eat before a workout How to use Medco.com to manage your medications Is bronchitis contagious? Advantages of sage tea How to get rid of pin worms Alternative exercise to sit ups Understanding the difference between a psychologist and a counselor How to figure out your daily Weight Watchers points target Side effects of drinking soda Is pickled herring good for you? Health benefits of tender coconut Vitamin K overdose symptoms The difference between saturated and unsaturated fats Why do we get sick in winter Energy Drinks and their benefits Hiatal hernia: Symptoms and treatment Gym reviews: Retro Fitness of Middletown, New Jersey The differences between a psychotherapist, a psychiatrist and a psychologist Low-carb foods that are high in fiber Tips on buying home oxygen therapy equipment Crack addict: Before, during and after the addiction Common muscle diseases Understanding bipolar disorder in men Natural cure for plantar warts The best time to eat your main meal How to test peripheral vision Sinus infection symptoms The best ways to calm down quickly The health benefits of cranberry juice Different types of push ups and their unique benefits Skin problems caused by swimming pools Natural ways to prevent blood clots The shared boundaries of normal and abnormal behavior Pros and cons of the Jenny Craig weight loss program Bell’s palsy: Symptoms and treatment The health benefits of cow’s milk Health benefits of cinnamon and honey The amazing Chia seed and their benefits to health Interferential therapy: Tips for effective treatment How open-ended questions are used in counseling The debate over legalizing marijuana Pros and cons of antibiotics Where and how to get DNA testing done Dangers of eating smoked food Symptoms of copper allergies Septicaemia: Signs and symptoms A look at how long you are contagious with the flu Is endurance running the best way to lose weight How to avoid processed food while living a busy lifestyle Lowering blood pressure without medication How to get rid of a bruise Pneumonia and the common cold Finger exercises for dexterity and speed Nursing: The importance of documentation and charting Ways to stay up all day when you haven’t gotten sleep Pneumothorax: Do you have a collapsed lung? Smoking versus chewing tobacco Common causes of oily bowel movements How to live with someone who has narcissistic personality disorder On becoming a vegetarian: pros and cons How many people have no health insurance How to remove dental floss stuck between teeth Top 10 simple ways to stay fit What types of dental braces and retainers are available today? Allergy to Sulfite: Symptoms and treatment Instantly noticeable benefits of quitting smoking How many calories a day do young children need? How to use urine therapy for acne Walking: Swollen hands and fingers Featured Partner Dogs Deserve Better Dogs Deserve Better has partnered with Helium, giving you the chance to write for a cause.


Browse Dogs Deserve Better's featured titles, pick an issue and write!


You can also donate your article earnings.


Share what you kn... more CONNECT WITH US Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook Read our blog Write and get published Share with other writers Polish your freelancing skills Join our active writing community Quality articles from proven freelancers Exclusive rights, fast turnaround Brand engagement, business blogging -- our writers do it all Get custom content today! INFORMATION About Us Team Helium User Tools User Agreement Privacy Policy DMCA Copyright © 2002-2012 Helium, Inc. All rights reserved.