
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 08:24:27 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.11 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.11 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
X-Pingback: http://www.alzheimersdiseasetips.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Diabetes drug may treat Alzheimer’s | Alzheimers Disease Tips Alzheimers Disease Tips Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Care of Alzheimer's Patients Skip to content Alzheimer’s Symptoms: The Major Symptoms of Alzheimer’s Disease Privacy Policy « Analysis: Diabetes-Alzheimers link clearer Why new health minister may prove a boon to Alzheimer’s sufferers » Diabetes drug may treat Alzheimer’s Diabetes drug may treat Alzheimer’s NEWS.com.au, Australia - 7 hours ago By Tamara McLean. A DRUG used to treat diabetes may also help people with Alzheimer’s disease, an international genetics conference has been told. Alzheimer’s Institute destined for landmark status Las Vegas Business Press, NV - 12 hours ago Frank Gehry, the 77-year-old globetrotting architect, is designing his first Las Vegas building, the $60 million Lou Ruvo Alzheimer’s Institute downtown. Positive early data for TorreyPines’ Alzheimer’s drug Pharmaceutical Business Review - Jul 25, 2006 A second phase I study of TorreyPines’ NGX267 candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease has indicated that the drug is safe and shows signs of Metro Police Looking For Alzheimer’s Patient Channel Oklahoma.com, OK - Aug 7, 2006 OKLAHOMA CITY — Oklahoma City police said they are looking for a missing Alzheimer’s patient on Monday. Anna Page, 69, is 5 feet Acupuncture to treat Alzheimer s: Results of a pilot feasibility Akupunktur Aktuell, Germany - Aug 7, 2006 As yet, no published report exists of a randomized clinical trial (RCT) of the effects of acupuncture on Alzheimer s Disease (AD), vascular or other dementias Help for Alzheimer’s patients WAFF, AL - Aug 7, 2006 Alzheimer’s patients are prone to wander and often forget where they’re going and how to get back home. Julie Cadden’s 73-year-old Apple Juice May Keep Alzheimer’s Away MedIndia, India - Aug 2, 2006 that the day may come when foods like apples, apple juice and other apple products are recommended along with the most popular Alzheimer’s medications,” says LA Fund 1 invests $1 million to spur BR cell therapy research Greater Baton Rouge Business Report, LA - 22 hours ago approaches to cell therapy. Cell therapy is used to treat diabetes, Alzheimer’s and other chronic conditions. The $1 million investment This entry was written by admin , posted on August 9, 2006 at 3:04 pm , filed under Alzheimer's Disease . Bookmark the permalink . Follow any comments here with the RSS feed for this post .
					Both comments and trackbacks are currently closed. « Analysis: Diabetes-Alzheimers link clearer Why new health minister may prove a boon to Alzheimer’s sufferers » Recent Posts Understanding Alzheimer’s: How to Help Children Understand Alzheimers Disease Healthy Diet Tips for Alzheimer’s Patients Explaining the Cause of Alzheimers Disease Support for Alzheimer’s Caregivers in Ethnic Communities Alzheimers’ Disease Prevention Requires Early Diagnosis Steps for Diagnosing Alzheimers in the Elderly Denial and Acceptance in Alzheimers Diagnosis What is the Definition of Alzheimers Disease? Coping with Alzheimers Disease Communication Tools for Alzheimers Caregivers Categories Alzheimer's Caregivers Alzheimer's Diagnosis Alzheimer's Disease Alzheimer's Research Alzheimer's Symptoms Alzheimer's Treatment Coping with Alzheimer's Pages Alzheimer’s Symptoms: The Major Symptoms of Alzheimer’s Disease Pri