<0.01) from that of the control patients' group. Moreover, the acupuncture group differs significantly in their rehabilitation response at the time of discharge concerning perceived anxiety (STAIC-S). The lung function tests do not present differences between groups. CONCLUSION: After additional acupuncture, amelioration of peak expiratory flow variability and anxiety can be shown, without any difference in objective lung function tests and quality of life between study groups. Further studies might evaluate the effects of acupuncture on childhood asthma in an outpatient setting. PMID: 21944653 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE] Tags: Psychotherapy Search It! Recent Entries Public knowledge, attitude and practice of complementary and alternative medicine in riyadh region, saudi arabia. 2.27 Visuomotor imagery as a new tool in the rehabilitation of neglect: a randomised controlled study of feasibility and efficacy. 2.26 An effective lifestyle intervention in overweight children: one-year follow-up after the randomized controlled trial on “Obeldicks light”. 2.26 Modality-specific perceptual expectations selectively modulate baseline activity in auditory, somatosensory, and visual cortices. 2.26 Elucidating the black box from stress to paranoia. 2.26 Randomized controlled trial of full and brief cognitive-behaviour therapy and wait-list for paediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder. 2.26 Children with very early onset obsessive-compulsive disorder: clinical features and treatment outcome. 2.26 Tinnitus and depression. 2.26 Developmental aspects of error and high-conflict-related brain activity in pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder: a fMRI study with a Flanker task before and after CBT. 2.26 Studies with group treatments required special power calculations, allocation methods, and statistical analyses. 2.26 Visit the archives for more! Blogroll Development Blog Documentation Plugins Suggest Ideas Support Forum Themes WordPress Planet Contributors NCBI: Internal error, see logs for details NCBI: Internal error, see logs for details NCCAM Featured Content PubMed: biodynamic massage pubmed: bodywork pubmed: gestalt therapy pubmed: psychosomatic or psy… pubmed: psychotherapy pubmed: rolfing[title/abstra… What’s New: Foods RSS Feed © 2006–2007 Body, Mind & Spirit Artic