Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Smoking Effects | Women's Health Home | Sitemap | Links | Contact | Privacy Navigation About Us New Farm Hypnotherapy Clinic Hypnosis CDs for Health & Life Hypnosis CDs for Work & Sport Hypnosis CDs for Change & Growth Hypnosis CDs for 
				Children Hypnosis CDs Full List Personalised Programs How Hypnosis Works Hypnotherapy & Specific Issues Research Into Hypnosis What Our Clients Say Workshops & Seminars Members Area Free Hypnosis Downloads Trancesolutions Newsletter Quick Links : Hypnosis and Smoking Search our site : Enter keyword below advanced Smoke Free Stop smoking permanently and painlessly  in 7 days. Join 
			thousands of people who have quit using this proven method. If you are a smoker, quitting is the single most important health 
			decision you can make. Learn More about Smoke Free About 
			breaking your smoking habit using hypnosis How Smoke Free works Visiting New 
			Farm Hypnotherapy to quit smoking Men's health and smoking Women's health and smoking Research about quitting smoking using hypnosis Tips for ex-smokers The con of mild cigarettes Can you quit? What clients say 
			about Smoke Free Hypnosis 
			programs to change habits Taking Control : 
			hypnosis programs to control problem drinking Cut Your 
			Losses : hypnosis programs to stop problem gambling Rewriting The Script : 
			hypnosis programs to change unwanted habits Hypnotherapy 
			CD Programs Categories Browse our full range of audio hypnosis programs from the links 
			below. Audio programs for a 
			healthy mind and body Audio programs for 
			work and sport Audio programs for change 
			and personal growth Audio programs for 
			children Hypnosis CDs full program list Fellow Member Australian Hypnotherapists Association Member National Hypnotherapists Register of Australia Women's Health and Smoking - The Health Effects How many women smoke? Before the 1900’s, few women in western society smoked. As the 20th 

		century progressed, more and more women begin to smoke. By 1945, 26% of women smoked In 1976 that number had increased to 33% By 2001 the number fell to 18% Why do women smoke? The tobacco industry has marketed smoking as a fashionable and 

		sophisticated thing for women to do. The fashion and media industries 

		also traditionally display many images of stylish women smoking As more women started working and earning an income, they chose to 

		spend that income on cigarettes What health problems can women smokers suffer? Women who smoke are at increased risk of a number of gender-specific 

		in addition to the range of other adverse health effects that all 

		smokers are at risk of. These gender-specific problems include: Cancer of the cervix Cardio-vascular disease and stroke (women who both 

			smoke and use oral contraceptives have a tenfold increase in risk) Osteoporosis Complications in pregnancy and labour including a 

			greater risk of miscarriage Menstrual problems Reduced fertility How does smoking affect pregnancy? Smoking during pregnancy affects the health of the unborn and 

		newborn baby. These effects can include: Retarded foetal growth leading to a low birth rate Increased risk of cot death (or Sudden Infant 

			Death Syndrome) A lower than average birth weight and therefore 

			more likely suffering from infections and other health problems Download this page in printer friendly format To quit smoking in 7 days, use this hypnosis CD program: Browse programs by purpose: Addictions (3) Self Esteem / Emotional 

				Issues (2) Children's Programs 

				(4) Confidence (4) Sport Performance 

				(3) Motivation (3) Insomnia (2) Personal Growth (4) Relationships (2) Health / Healing (4) Relaxation (3) Stress / Anxiety (5) Weight Loss (1) Study / Memory (3) iTunes (17) Copyright 1999 - 2011 Trancesolutions - New Farm 
		