
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 14:59:35 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Night Cramps | Down the Lane Night Cramps Home · Forum · Frugal Living · Downshifting · Earning Extra Money · Vegetable Gardening · Chicken Keeping Health & Wellbeing · Hobbies & Interests · Kent Cricket · The 50's & 60's · My Diary · Shopping · Blog · Site Map The Body Mind and Spirit Stammering Dentures About This Section Immunity Ageing Eyes Eat Healthy in Winter Health in Winter Migraines Night Cramps Couples What is Diabetes? Sun Danger Cycling Energy Exercise Fighting Flu Shopping Pages Senior Moments The Blog Alternative Medicine Confidence Herbal Medicine Hypnosis Meditation Stress Depression Time Management General Wellbeing Shopping Pages About Stammering Stammering Positives Famous People with Stammers Stammering Help Find The Right Dentist First Time Having Dentures Fitting New Dentures Getting Used To Them After care adjustments Dentures: True or False Night Cramps There are not very many things worst than when you're tired and need a  good nights sleep, than to be woken up with nagging feet, ankle or toe  cramps. You end up stretching, putting you feet against the wall, getting out  of bed, plus of course it usually affects your partners sleep as well. Then, just as it seems better, the other leg starts or the cramp moves to another position. All in all, not good news. It would seem that in most cases that night cramps affect especially  those over the age of about 55 - 60. The problem is that in most cases the cause is unknown and a visit to the Doctor would usually end up with Quinine being prescribed. Should the problem persist or get worst, then other causes may be investigated. Associated with cramps include excessive exercise, smoking, alcohol,dehydration, an under active thyroid and reaction to certain prescriptions you may be taking. All this would be covered with your GP. From the above selection, some assistance may be quite obvious; drink  healthy amounts of water, stop smoking and cut down alcohol intake. Once again, all things of a mispent youth !! Tonic Water is said to help a lot and this is often the case with  Sportsman who will often call for some when suffering Another remedy according to many people is to disolve some salt on the front of your tongue and swallow. Exercise and sleep positioning though are a major key to reducing cramps....... Sleep Posture Try using a pillow at the bottom of the bed to slightly raise and prop up the feet. Laying on your front and hanging the feet over the end of the bed Use lose blankets, especially at the bottom of the bed, to avoid the  toes pointing downwards and getting tangled. It is said that placing a bar of soap at the bottom of your bed helps !  I don't know if this is true, but always worth a try. Exercise Stretch your calf muscles two or three times a day. Stand about a foot  away from a wall - then keeping the soles of your feet flat to the  floor, bend forward to lean against the wall. Watch the TV when Athletes are warming up and see how they bend one leg  making the other straight, then stretching. Food Magnesium and Vitamin E help ward off leg cramps, so look into your diet and make sure that  these two supplements are taken and kept within your body as long a s  possible. Dietary fat makes magnesium harder to absorb and eating  too many sugery foods will simply force your body to use magnesium to  metabolize the sweet stuff. Cola drinks are said to deplete your body of magnesium and calcium. In any circumstance, should symptons persist, always see your Doctor for any other underlaying reasons. Cramp really is a pain Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.downthelane.net Health & Wellbeing Articles Stress Management Personal Energy Exercise Meditation Self Hypnosis Positive & Confident Time Management Building your Immunity General Wellbeing Alternative Medicine What is Herbal Medicine Fighting the Flu Oddballs Home New Dentures 10 facts about the Brain Migraines Aphrodisiacs Ageing Eye Problems What is Diabetes Night Cramps Health in the Winter Eat healthy in Winter Stammering Depression As with anything, if in doubt, ask your Doctor for advice. Simply by not owning three medium-sized castles in Tuscany I have saved enough money in the last forty years on insurance premiums alone to buy a medium-sized castle in Tuscany. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe A peaceful time - or so it should be Your partner and you just want a good nights sleep Being generally fit doesn't mean you won't get cramps Home Page | Contact me | About Down the Lane | Leave Feedback | Media | Privacy 