Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Sakthi Foundation - Pancha Bhoota Healing Search our
          site Home | Health | Pancha
	              Bhoota | Lounge | Sakthi Sites | Testimonials Sakthi
           Clinic Pregnancy Clinic-Home General problems Acid Reflux Acne /Pimples Allergies Anemia Arthritis Cancer Cholesterol Common Cold Constipation Depression Diabetes Hyper
          Tension Indigestion Kidney 
    Failure Kidney 
    Stones Lipoma Over weight Piles Thyroid Triglycerides Varicose Sakthi Pharmacy Children problems Infant 
    -Allergies Infant Common cold Infant 
    Constipation Infant 
    Fever & cough Infant Ear Infections Men 
    problems Hydrocele Low Sperm Orchitis Prostrate Female 
    Problems Gestational Diabetes Hot 
    Flash Infertility Irregular 
    Menstruation Painful 
    Menstruation PCOS Urinary 
    Infections Uterine Fibroids Vaginal 
    Infections Sakthi
	      Clinic >> Diabetes Acid Reflux Heartburn is the major 
		symptom of acid in the esophagus, characterized by burning discomfort 
		behind the breastbone (sternum). Findings in Gastroesophageal reflux 
		disease (GERD) include esophagitis (reflux esophagitis) — inflammatory 
		changes in the esophageal lining (mucosa) —, strictures, difficulty 
		swallowing (dysphagia), and chronic chest pain. W e suggest to follow these general recommendations for one 
		month and if you still have problems write to us and we will be able to 
		suggest individualized therapy for you. Earth Therapy: One Juice a day for seven days a week: Drink these fresh juices, one a day and repeat the seven every week. It 
		is easy. Just cut and put in blender with little water and dates if 
		needed,
		blend and drink. Aim of the juices are to coat the damaged mucosal lining 
		with these plant medicines which will heal the wounds. When you have a 
		cut in your finger and if you touch any spicy or sour things it hurts a 
		lot. Same way when we eat food when we have stomach ulcers or acid 
		reflux, these wounds cause so much pain. We apply a bandage on finger to 
		avoid pain. Similarly we need to put a band-aid on these stomach wounds.  
		Aloe vera is the best in coating the mucosal lining and prevent pain and 
		also allows those wounds to heal quickly. Sidhha medicines priases Aloe 
		vera for peptic or stomach ulcer. 1. Aloe Vera juice 
		freshly prepared from the plant. This excellently heals the damage 
		caused by acid reflux.  You can mix with carrot juice 
		also and drink it. 2. Bottle Gourd juice 3. Aloe Vera juice 4. Banana stem 
		juice or coconut milk (fresh and not canned) or Fresh cabbage juice. 5. Aloe Vera juice 6. Cucumber 
		juice 7. Aloe Vera juice 8. Ripe papaya mixed with milk and honey Try using all organically grown foods for best results. Fermented Rice: Pazhaya 
		saadam - the word means "old rice". This preparation is called Pazhaya 
		saddam pazhankanji / kulutha choru and Paaniwala chawal in hindi. Eat fermented rice and or fermented barley for more effective results.  Cook rice and soak in plain water (or 
		butter-milk) over-night preferably in a clay vessel, then mixed nicely 
		next day morning mix with a dash of buttermilk , shallots (pearl onions)  
		and salt. Eat (rather drink) this highly nutritious vitamin B rich fermented 
		food that will quench the acidity of the body  and good to cure 
		stomach or peptic ulcer or in acid reflux problems.  
		This is a simple home remedy for ulcer. The micro-organisms produced 
		during the fermentation balances the pH of the stomach. It also 
		replenishes  healthy bacteria in the gut caused by the abuse of 
		antibiotics. Similar preparation of Bajra Millet will also reduce acidity reflux and also heal the wounds of 
		ulcer in the stomach. Hyper-acidity: Make Ash of Banana stem 20gms,  and eat three 
		times  day after food and will reduce acidity. Soaking one teaspoon of Fenugreek seeds in water over night. Drink the water 
		before food and eat the raw seeds after foods. This absorbs the acid of 
		the stomach. You can also use the fenugreek seed powder to absorb the 
		acid of the stomach. Eating garlic chutney once a day is good. Triphala Powder - Strengthen Liver : Everyday night take 
		one teaspoon of Triphala powder in 50 ml of hot water. (Please Click here to 
		find the link to buy this herb). Include more vegetables and fruits in your 
		diet that soothes your stomach and intestines. Avoid any kind of meat foods. Water Therapy : We generally recommend doing Water Therapy to mitigate these problems. But many 
		patients report that not all are benefitted initially with water 
		therapy, but first healing the damage and then doing water therapy 
		helps.  Instead of drinking plain room 
		temperature water you can drink luke warm water (with general flavors 
		like  mint leaves, cardamom, sarsparilla root powder, hibiscus flowers etc)   for better results. So do water therapy after you heal the ulcer. Fire Therapy: Walk twice in the morning and evening. 
		Do Pancha Bhoota walking to relax your mind which is one of the causing 
		for acid reflux and ulcers. The mental irritations and frustrations lead 
		to these problems of Acid reflux and ulcer over time. Therefore it is 
		good to relax the mind from those negative tendencies. Pancha Bhoota Walking with breath awareness is very good to relax the 
		mind. Yoga is very good especially Surya Namaskar given in fire section. It
				helps in good lymphatic circulation. Air 
	therapy: Taking a long breath and relaxes every now and then 
	reduces stress in the body. Doing Pranayama 5 minutes morning and evening is also good. See here for free video links on best Pranayama - Swami Ramdev . Space Therapy : Similarly relaxation of the mind reduces stress. Please click here to get back to Sakthi Sites Home   |   Disclaimer   |   Contact
      u