Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

How To Get Rid Of Hemorrhoids How To Get Rid Of Hemorrhoids People often ask us about how to get rid of hemorrhoids and about the best hemorrhoid treatment.  Hemorrhoids are swollen veins of the rectum and anus, similar to varicose veins in the legs.  They can be irritated, itchy, and even painful if not treated.   Hemorrhoids can cause bleeding, especially when you have a bowel movement.  The bleeding will be bright red. Hemorrhoids can be caused by a number of things, all involving increased pressure or strain on the rectal area.  Some common causes include: Straining with bowel movements due to constipation. Hard stools. Pregnancy and childbirth. Severe coughing. Heavy lifting. Sitting for long periods of time, especially on the toilet. Hemorrhoids can be external or internal. External hemorrhoids can be felt on the outside of the anus.  They cause most of the itching and pain.  They may cause bleeding, as well. External hemorrhoids can become strangulated, meaning they are cut off from the blood supply.  Then a blood clot forms and this is called a thrombosed hemorrhoid.  These are very painful and require medical treatment. Internal hemorrhoids are inside the rectum.  They usually don't cause itching or discomfort, but can cause bleeding. Sometimes hemorrhoids from inside the rectum protrude outside of the anus.  These are called prolapsed hemorrhoids. Before we talk about how to get rid of hemorrhoids, let's look at ways to prevent them. You can prevent hemorrhoids by avoiding strain on the rectal area.  These simple prevention techniques may also work as hemorrhoid treatment if your hemorrhoids are not too severe. If constipation is a problem for you, try adding more fiber to your diet.  Fiber can be found in foods such as beans, whole grain breads, bran cereals, and fresh fruits and vegetables.  You can also try a fiber supplement such as Citrucel or Metamucil, both available over-the-counter. If your stools are hard, try a stool softener such as Colace or Senokot, available over-the-counter.  Also make sure you are drinking at least eight glasses of water a day. It is very difficult to prevent hemorrhoids during pregnancy and childbirth, although the above methods will help.  If you do develop hemorrhoids, you'll want to look at how to get rid of hemorrhoids after you give birth. Avoid sitting for long periods of time.  If your job requires you to sit for long periods of time, take short breaks to stand for a few minutes when possible.  While traveling by car, take frequent rest stops so you can walk around for a few minutes.  If traveling by air, take a few minutes to stand when possible.  Avoid activities like reading while on the toilet. Now let's look at how to get rid of hemorrhoids.  In some cases, when hemorrhoids are not too severe, hemorrhoid treatment with increased fiber and stool softeners is all that is needed. Hydrocortisone creams can be used to relieve the swelling and itching of hemorrhoids.  This is generally used for external hemorrhoids and is available over-the-counter.  Hydrocortisone suppositories can be used to treat internal hemorrhoids, and are also available over-the-counter.  If these measures don't do the trick, you may need to see a doctor and ask how to get rid of hemorrhoids.  There are prescription medications that can be applied externally or internally. Hemorrhoids can be surgically removed but post-operative pain can make this an unpleasant experience.  In addition, stitches often break during bowel movements soon after the surgery.  Infection is a common problem after this procedure.  Thrombosed hemorrhoids generally must be treated surgically, though. In another surgical procedure, veins are stapled back into place.  This is usually used for prolapsed hemorrhoids.  Recovery can be painful.  Infection is also common.  In rare cases, the internal anal sphincter can be damaged. Laser treatment is another option.  Lasers are used to shrink the hemorrhoids.  Multiple treatments may be required. As you can see, the medical methods of how to get rid of hemorrhoids carry some significant risks.  In order to avoid the risks and discomfort of traditional medical treatment, many people prefer to try a natural hemorrhoid treatment. Venapro is an interesting new product that we have recently found. It is an all-natural hemorrhoid treatment that quickly words to reduce flare-ups and alleviate painful symptoms. Follow this link to Venapro , and see if it's right for you. If you have bleeding in your stool, see a doctor to make sure the bleeding is caused by hemorrhoids and not by something more serious.  Bleeding in the stool can sometimes be a sign of a serious condition, including colon or rectal cancer. If you think you may have a thrombosed hemorrhoid, see a doctor for hemorrhoid treatment. Feel free to write to us if you have any question about how to get rid of hemorrhoids. Additional Reading: For more information on how to eliminate hemorrhoids , or to learn about the types of hemorrhoid surgery , follow these links.  For more information on removal of enlarged hemorrhoid surgery , take a look at these pages specifically on hemorrhoid lazer surgery , hemorrhoid surgery cost , external hemorrhoid surgery , internal hemorrhoid lazer surgery , and recovery information for hemorrhoid correction surgery .  For alternative treatment options, be sure to look at our hemorrhoids and chinese medicine page.
If you have an external thrombosed hemorrhoid , be sure to read about the treatment alternatives to surgery.
If your hemorrhoids are bleeding, take a  look at our treatment for bleeding hemorrhoid page.  If you are looking for home treatment of hemorrhoids ideas, be sure to look at our hemorrhoid relief at home page. More than how to get rid of hemorrhoids on our Se