
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 12:10:30 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_fcgid/2.3.6 Phusion_Passenger/3.0.9 mod_bwlimited/1.4
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Last-Modified: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 12:10:30 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Texas Back Institute : Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion Surgery, AFIL Surgery, Back Pain Surgery, Back Specialists, Back Doctors, Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion (ALIF) Texas Back Institute Search this site About Us Conditions Treatments Appointments Doctors Ask A Doc FAQs Contact Us Find Location Join Us. Tweet Us. Add Us. Watch Us. Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion (ALIF) Description Anterior lumbar interbody fusion (ALIF) is a surgical procedure in which part of the lumbar spine is fused from the front. The surgeon makes an incision to the abdomen and gently retracts the abdominal contents to visualize the front part of the spine. Disc material is removed and a fusion graft is placed into the disc space. The graft is usually bone or a cage combined with bone. Conditions Treated ALIF is most commonly performed for the treatment of painful disc degeneration or disruption. It is also used in the treatment of spondylolisthesis, scoliosis and other spinal conditions. Before the Procedure Once you have decided to have surgery, the following events take place: A medical examination. Chest X-ray, EKG and blood work. You may be asked to have a neurological or psychological examination. If taking aspirin or anti-inflammatory medications daily, stop these medications at least one week before surgery. If you take prescription medications or other drugs, including herbals, ask your doctor how soon before surgery you should stop taking these. Do not have anything to eat or drink for 6 to 8 hours before surgery. You will check into the hospital the morning of surgery. Prior to surgery, you will be asked to sign permits for surgery, anesthesia, blood and blood products. During the Procedure An incision is made by a general surgeon in the abdomen to expose the front part of the spine. Fluoroscopy (live X-ray) is used to determine the correct level(s) to be operated. The disc is approached after carefully separating away the abdominal contents and moving major blood vessels off to the side. The disc is removed. A fusion cage or wedge of bone is placed in the disc space. Normal compression of the spine will hold the bone or cage in place. A screw may be placed into the vertebrae for additional fixation. Surgery takes approximately 1-3 hours. After the Procedure You will be in the recovery room from 1 to 1½ hours. The surgeon will contact your family while you are in recovery. After going to a hospital room, you will be able to use a PCA pump to get medication for pain control. This machine controls the amount of medication that can be received. Staff will usually get you out of bed shortly after surgery. The hospital stay is usually 1-2 days. A brace or corset is prescribed to restrict bending and promote healing of the fused area. You will be given any needed prescriptions and discharge instructions. A set of exercises that you can do at home will be provided. You will be able to ride in a car or plane upon leaving the hospital. It is important to avoid twisting and bending backward. Physical therapy is usually initiated after the first office visit with your doctor following surgery. Recovery from ALIF varies greatly among patients and is dependent on the extent of the surgery as well as the age and health of the individual. Return to work also varies greatly among patients and is related to overall health and the type of work you do. It is important to note that back pain is seldom completely eliminated – the objective with fusion surgery is to reduce pain. Non-Surgical Treatments Physical Therapy Medication Patient Education Home Exercise Program Acute Pain Management Chronic Pain Management Psychological Support Injections Epidural Steroid Injection (ESI) Selective Nerve Root Block (SNRB) Facet Injection Sacroiliac Joint Injection Medial Branch Block Trigger Point Injection Botox Injection Surgical Treatments Discectomy Decompression Minimally Invasive Spinal Surgery Fusion Cervical (Neck) Fusion Anterior Cervical Fusion (ACF) Posterior Cervical Fusion (PCF) Lumbar (Lower Back) Fusion Posterior Lumbar Fusion (PLF) Extreme Lateral Interbody Fusion (XLIF) Transforaminal Interbody Fusion (TLIF) Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion (ALIF Trans-sacral Interbody Fusion (AxiaLIF) 360° Fusion (Anterior and Posterior) Fusion Alternative Lumbar Total Disc Replacement (TDR) Cervical Total Disc Replacement (TDR) Dynamic Stabilization Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) Other Surgical Procedures Spinal Deformity Reconstruction Facet and Sacroiliac Joint (SI) Rhizotomy Vertebral Fracture Repair About Us History Patient Forms Careers Medical Fellowships News and Media Disclosure of Interests Terms and Conditions Back Pain Links Site Map Back Pain, Back Doctors, Back Specialists Back Specialists Back & Leg Pain Herniated Discs Spinal Stenosis Degenerative Disc Disease Radicular Syndrome Spondylolisthesis Failed Back Surgery Syndrome Chronic Back Pain Acute Back Pain Spinal Instability Spinal Deformity Osteoporosis Nerve Compression Whiplash Sacroiliac Joint Pain Facet Joint Pain Physical Therapy Treatments Medication Back Pain Treatment Exercises Back Pain Acute Back Pain Management Chronic Back Pain Management Psychological Support Epidural Steroid Injection Treatments Selective Nerve Root Block Treatments Facet Injection Treatments Sacroiliac Joint Injection Treatments Medical Branch Block Treatments Trigger Point Injection Treatments Botox Injection Treatments Discectomy Surgery Decompression Surgery Minimally Invasive Spinal Surgery Fusion Surgery Anterior Cervical Fusion Surgery Posterior Cervical Fusion Surgery Posterior Lumbar Fusion Surgery Extreme Lateral Interbody Fusion Surgery Transforminal Interbody Fusion Surgery Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion Surgery Trans-sacral Interbody Fusion Surgery 360 Fusion Surgery Lumbar Total Disc Replacement Surgery Cervical Total Disc Replacement Surgery Dynamic Stabilization Surgery Spinal Cord Stimulation Surgery Spinal Deformity Reconstruction Surgery Facet & Sacroiliac Joints Rhizotomy Surgery Vertebral Fracture Repair Surgery Myelography Discography Nerve Conduction Study Bone Miner