
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 00:14:33 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Content-Type: text/html
Via: 1.0 debian.privatedns.com
Connection: close

Our Powerful Home Dehumidifier System Home | About Basement Systems Schedule a FREE Inspection and Estimate * Call: 1-888-820-4831 All Other Calls: 1-800-640-1500 Home » Basement » Waterproofing » Products » Basement Dehumidifier » Home Dehumidifier Home Basement Waterproofing Problems Products Sump Pumps French Drain Systems Outdoor Drainage Basement Dehumidifier Home Dehumidifier Leaky Wall Crack Repair Window Systems Plumbing Protection Services Why Fix It? Wet Basement Gallery Finishing Insulation Crawl Space Foundation Repair Warranted Products Sump Pumps About Basement Systems Free Estimate SCHEDULE YOUR FREE ESTIMATE CALL 1-888-820-4831 OR CONTACT US ONLINE Affiliations Find a Local Dealer Alberta British Columbia Manitoba New Brunswick Nova Scotia Ontario Prince Edward Island Quebec Saskatchewan Yukon Our Home Dehumidification System Creating A Dry, Comfortable Space For Homes With Slab Foundations Our home dehumidifier includes a special air filter that can remove particles as small as 2 microns. That's small enough to remove mold, dust mite waste, and many other allergens! In humid areas , and particularly in the southern half of the United States, homeowners are trapped in a never-ending battle with humidity in their homes. Windows are thrown open and air conditioners are geared up -- all to no avail, as the home remains hot, humid, and uncomfortable. Why Install A Home Dehumidifier? When you throw open the windows, your home will never get drier (or cooler) than the air outside -- which is often not very dry at all! And while a home air conditioner system might help, drying the air is only a side effect of its normal operation (so it's not very effective). A home dehumidifier system is a specialized unit, designed to dry your home and protecting it from the damage and uncomfortable feeling of a damp house. We can install a powerful, self-draining dehumidifier in your home! Our system is Energy Star rated, and perfect for creating a drier, healthier environment in your home. If you'd like to learn more about installing a dehumidifier in your home , contact us by phone or e-mail today! We'll provide a free dehumidifier installation cost quote , and meet with you to decide on the best options for ductwork and drainage of your system. Advantages To Our Home Dehumidifier System We offer the SaniDry XP Dehumidifier to homeowners who are interested in controlling mold, humidity, and moisture in their homes. This powerful, industrial-strength dehumidifier system is energy efficient, self-draining, powerful enough to dehumidify 2,500 square feet. Our dehumidifier can remove up to 109 pints (51.5 liters) of water per day from the air, and includes a powerful blowing motor that's compatible with ductwork. Remove controls allow you to operate the system from a panel on the wall as it operates from within a closet or utility room. Our SaniDry XP System provides homeowners with these three advantages: Save Money On Your Utility Bills Home air conditioner units remove humidity from your home at 15% efficiency, whereas a home dehumidifier is designed for this specific task. When you open windows to ventilate your home, you're allowing air that you paid to condition to leave your home. And ask yourself this: What kind of air are you using to dry your home if the weather outside is humid, foggy, rainy, or just plain damp? Our SaniDry XP System is designed with a cold coil surface that's ten times larger than a typical home dehumidifier! This allows us to wring out much more water as air passes over -- making us more effective and more energy efficient than the competition. Powerful Protection Against Mold Mold needs three things to survive: organic material to eat, sufficient warmth, and moisture. Remove one of these, and the mold will die. However: If you've ever heard of mold growing in a refrigerator, you know that your home will always be warm enough for mold growth. And there'll always be organic material in a home for mold to eat. Ultimately, the only thing that can be controlled is moisture. To thrive, mold needs a Relative Humidity (RH) level above 60%.  Use the digital controls of the SaniDry XP to set the humidity level to that level, and it will blow air through your home that's too dry for mold to live in. Your problem's solved! Protect Your Home While You're Away Some homeowners who live in hot, humid areas only stay there for a few months each year, shutting up the house while they're away. That leaves your home alone, under humid conditions , for several months out of each year. These homeowners sometimes return to an unpleasant surprise. In some cases, the home has experienced a "bloom" of mold, with drywall, carpeting, furniture, artwork, and much more damaged. Our home dehumidifier system can keep your home dry while you're away. With a fully automatic system, a self-draining design, and low-maintenance design, it can keep dry air circulating through your home -- so your home looks great when you return to it. Features Of Our SaniDry XP Our SaniDry XP Dehumidifier Syste m includes all of the following features: 109 pints per day capacity, AHAM test conditions (80F. 60%) Built-in defrost system - designed to operate down to 40F. Will not freeze in basement conditions. Controlled by a dehumidistat with digital settings and a variable setting range from "26%" to "90%". Plugs into a standard 15 amp, 115 volt outlet via 10 ft power cord Direct gravity drain hose to floor drain, WaterGuard, or sump pump . Drain hose can be extended using 1/2 inch PVC pipe. The unit contains a blower switch that permits continuous blower operation with or without dehumidification Specifications: Power 110-120 VAC, 6.75 amps / 742 Watts Blower 300 CFM Weight 106 lbs. Capacity 109 pints/day @ 80'F, 60% RH / Up to 2500 sq. ft (8 ft ceiling) Dimension width:19.75", height:36.5", depth:17.5" Operating Temperature Range 40 to 95 F Ducting Yes Refrigerant Type R-410 A EPA Energy Star Certified Yes Air Filter MERV-11 Install Our Award-Winning Dehumidifier In Your Home! Our award-winning dehumidifier systems aren't just for basements! We can install one of our powerful, award-winning SaniDry XP Systems in your home to control mold and create a healthier, more comfortable space. To learn more, contact us by phone or e-mail today! We'll provide you with a free, no-obligation home dehumidifier quote , and answer any questions you may have. Our certified dealers proudly provide SaniDry XP systems throughout North America, The United Kingdom, and Ireland. There's a locally owned and operated dealer in your neighborhood waiting to serve you! Related Pages Basement Dehumidifier Waterproofing & Moisture Control Products Free estimate: 1-888-820-4831 All other calls: 1-800-640-1500 Our Services Basement Waterproofing Crawl Space Repair Basement Finishing Foundation Repair Our Company About Basement Systems Company Headquarters Company Awards Other Privacy Statement Basement Systems, Inc. © 2002-2011. All Rights Reserved. * What is a Free Estimate and Inspection? A system design specialist from one of our dealerships will inspect and measure your basement or crawl space completely FREE of charge. You will also receive one of our books (valued at US$14.95) at no cost to you including free shipping. ** Warranties vary by product and service. Check w