
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:37:47 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 03:37:47 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Probiotics and Weight Loss – All About Probiotics and Weight Loss About.com Health Alternative Medicine Alternative Medicine Search Alternative Medicine Supplements Treatments By Condition Share Free Alternative Medicine Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum All About Probiotics and Weight Loss By Cathy Wong , About.com Guide Created February 02, 2011 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: probiotics weight loss supplements A type of "friendly bacteria" sold in supplement form, probiotics are sometimes marketed as natural weight loss aids . By consuming these live microorganisms, proponents claim, overweight people can correct bacterial imbalances thought to contribute to weight gain. While few studies have tested this theory, some research suggests that probiotics may help support weight loss. The Science Behind Probiotics and Weight Loss To date, there is very limited evidence of probiotics' effectiveness in weight loss. The available research includes a 2010 study (published in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition ), which tested the anti-obesity effects of a probiotic strain called Lactobacillus gasseri SBT2055 (LG2055). Every day for 12 weeks, 87 study participants drank about seven ounces of an LG2055-enhanced fermented milk or a fermented milk free of LG2055. Compared to the control group, those who consumed the LG2055-enhanced fermented milk showed a greater reduction in body weight and belly fat. In another 2010 study (published in the journal Microbiology ), scientists discovered that a specially-engineered strain of probiotics helped influence metabolism and beneficially alter body fat composition in a group of mice. Designed specifically for the study, the Lactobacillus strain contained conjugated linoleic acid (a fatty acid previously found to decrease body fat in humans). According to the study's authors, these findings suggest that specialized probiotics may play a role in obesity prevention . Probiotics may also promote weight loss in gastric bypass surgery patients, according to a 2009 study from the Journal of Gastrointestinal Surgery . For the study, 44 obese people who had recently undergone gastric bypass surgery were assigned to either a control group or to treatment with a supplement containing probiotics. Both groups also received standard care, nutritional counseling, and the support of weight-loss study groups, in addition to consuming yogurt (a natural source of probiotics). After three months, the probiotics group had experienced significantly greater weight loss compared to the control group. Are Probiotics Safe for Weight Loss? While supplements containing probiotics seem to be safe for short-term use, some people may experience side effects (such as gas and bloating). To increase your intake of probiotics without using supplements, look to naturally probiotic-rich foods like yogurt, kefir, kimchi, and miso. Should You Use Probiotics for Weight Loss? Due to the lack of supporting research, probiotics cannot currently be recommended for weight loss. However, some studies show that probiotics may help with other health conditions (including diarrhea , irritable bowel syndrome , eczema , and gastrointestinal upset associated with use of antibiotics ). If you're considering the use of probiotics for weight loss (or any other health purposes), consult a health professional for help. Sources: Kadooka Y, Sato M, Imaizumi K, Ogawa A, Ikuyama K, Akai Y, Okano M, Kagoshima M, Tsuchida T. "Regulation of abdominal adiposity by probiotics (Lactobacillus gasseri SBT2055) in adults with obese tendencies in a randomized controlled trial." Eur J Clin Nutr. 2010 Jun;64(6):636-43. National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. " An Introduction to Probiotics [NCCAM Health Information ". NCCAM Publication No. D345. August 2008. Rosberg-Cody E, Stanton C, O'Mahony L, Wall R, Shanahan F, Quigley E, Fitzgerald G, Ross P. "Recombinant lactobacilli expressing linoleic acid isomerase can modulate the fatty acid composition of host adipose tissue in mice." Microbiology. 2010 Dec 22. Woodard GA, Encarnacion B, Downey JR, Peraza J, Chong K, Hernandez-Boussard T, Morton JM. "Probiotics improve outcomes after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery: a prospective randomized trial." J Gastrointest Surg. 2009 Jul;13(7):1198-204. Related Articles Acidophilus and Other Probiotics Alternative Weight Loss Solutions Natural Support for Obesity Prevention Related Articles Probiotics Probiotics and Allergies - Research on Probiotics and Allergy Prevention Probiotics and Children - How Probiotics are Good for Children Probiotics and Health - Should I Take Probiotics for Health Yoga for Weight Loss - All About Yoga for Weight Loss Cathy Wong Alternative Medicine Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches journal of gastrointestinal surgery european journal of clinical nutrition journal microbiology journal of clinical nutrition weight loss aids Explore Alternative Medicine Must Reads Are My Supplements Safe? Popular Herbs Massage: Worth the Money? Before You Detox Sleep Better - Naturally Most Popular Detox Quiz Stool - What's Healthy? The Detox Diet Green Stool High Blood Pressure Remedies See More About: probiotics weight loss supplements By Category Acupuncture to Yoga The Basics Conditions & Remedies Herbs & Supplements Diets Healthy Recipes Massage Therapy Mind & Body Find a Practitioner Natural Health Schools Alternative Medicine About.com Health Alternative Medicine Conditions & Remedies A - Z  See All Conditions Probiotics and Weight Loss – All About Probiotics and Weight Loss Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod