Vary: Accept-Encoding

Testimonial - Anita G Natural Medicine Home Testimonials About 
			Us Contact Us Home Testimonials About Us Diseases Treated Acupuncture Services Natural Medicine Products Reading Corner Daily Bible Contact Us NMC Welcome Natural 
			Medicine Center ™ Over 
			45,000 Patients Treated!!! Treatment 
			of Difficult Diseases and PAIN!!! Natural 
			Healing, Health & Well-Being Most 
			Insurances Accepted Worker's 
			Comp & Liens Accepted Great 
			Results With Natural Medicine! Many Patient Testimonials to Share the Hope S earch testimonials Listed by Diseases WEBSITE SPECIAL FREE 20-MINUTE HEALTH CONSULTATION Schedule your appointment today for a FREE 20-MINUTE health consultation by calling 714-979-9791 - We pledge to you our devotion to top quality medical excellence! - We provide gentle loving care for our patients! (A $25 Value) For a limited time only. Call 714-979-9791 View Products Visit 
			Agape Herbs We provide gentle loving care for all our patients! Call Us Today! 714-979-9791 Great Results with Natural Medicine!!! SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT PROGRAMS FOR: For a complete list of diseases treated, click here AUTO-IMMUNE DISEASES Rheumatoid Arthritis Psoriasis, Lupus, Crohn's, Raynaud's DIGESTIVE DISORDERS GERD, Crohn’s Disease Colitis, Gastritis, IBS IMMUNE 
			DISEASES Allergy, Sinusitis Bronchitis, Asthma Bladder & UT Infections REPRODUCTIVE DISORDERS Infertility, PMS, PCOS Tumors & Cysts Menopause, Hot Flashes MOOD 
			DISORDERS Panic Disorder & Fear Anxiety & Depression Anger, Moodiness DIFFICULT DISEASES Diabetes, Hypertension High Cholesterol, Phlebitis Bone & Joint Disorders Thyroid Disorders Liver Diseases, Hepatitis Neuralgia & Chronic Pain Schedule 
					an Appointment If you have a specific illness or if 
					you have questions, schedule an appointment for 
			an 
					individualized consultation. Your treatment plan and 
					progress are monitored by a qualified and experienced 
					medical professional. Our natural medicine treatments are 
					personalized and tailored for your body's needs. Call 714-979-9791 to schedule an appointment today! For Products and Private Labeling Please visit us at www.agapeherbs.com Employment 
			Opportunities Business 
			Opportunities Investment 
			Opportunities Read the Bible 
			Daily Click Here 
			for Outline "It is better to trust in the Lord, than to put confidence in man." - Psalm 118:8 Read Online Now English Chinese We pledge to you our dedication to top quality medical excellence! Our Staff Call 714-979-9791 NMC Natural 
			Medicine Center ™ 1175 Baker Street, Ste A-6 Costa Mesa, CA 92626 United States of America Call: 714-979-9791 Call: 714-979-9790 Fax: 714-333-9317 Patient Testimonials to Share the Hope!!! We 
			provide gentle loving care to our patients! We pledge to you our dedication to top medical excellence. ACID REFLUX INSOMNIA & LOW ENERGY "There was no 
			more burning in my stomach and the headaches went away and I could sleep better. I lost 8 pounds and I have more energy." I suffered from acid reflux and had stomach 
			problems for 3 years, and I was scared. It affected my job and 
			social life. I could not sleep and I had low energy. My stomach felt 
			like it was burning and I had acid in my mouth. I would spit a lot 
			and the acid was damaging my teeth. I would not be able to eat 
			anything because it inflamed my stomach. I had itchiness on my feet 
			and red spots in my eyes. I took medicines and pills to limit the 
			acid but there were no results. I was referred to the Natural Medicine Center and started on November 19, 2009. The person that referred me 
			motivated me, and I found out that a lot of people had been healed. 
			I had faith in Doctor Huang and in natural medicine. I began getting 
			acupuncture treatments and drinking herbal teas and following the 
			nutrition guidelines. The acupuncture relaxed my whole body and I 
			had good results with both the acupuncture and herbs. Within 2 weeks, I felt better. There was no more 
			burning in my stomach and the headaches went away and I could sleep 
			better. I lost 8 pounds and I have more energy. The treatments have 
			made it all better - my home, work and social life. The burning all went away 
			and I eat healthier and I am happy. I just think that natural 
			medicine is the best because it helps more than the drug medicine. 
			It also does not have secondary bad side effects. I like the whole staff and everyone is attentive, 
			nice and kind. They smile to us all the time and I feel like home in 
			a family. I saw that the clinic is very clean. The doctor is a 
			person that is always smiling and his words makes me feel good and 
			mentions God all the time. I would refer others because I would like 
			anyone to be healed and to stop suffering. Just give it a try to see 
			the good results. I recommend it and I want to thank Dr. Huang and 
			give him blessings. Sincerely, Anita G. Midway City, California June 3, 2010 Read 
			More Testimonials!!! - Go To Page 1 ... 2 ... 3 ... 4 ... 5 ... 6 ... 7 To 
			search for testimonials by list of diseases click here . Read Copyright © Natural Medicine 
			Center. All Rights Reserved ∙ Read 
			Disclaimer Individual Results May Vary NMC ▪ Natural 
		Medicine Clinic ▪ Natural 
		Medicine Center™ ▪ Agape 
		Acupuncture, Inc. ▪ NMC naturalmedicineOC.com ▪ naturalmedicine.cc ▪ agapeacupuncture.com Email us with questions or 
		comments about this web site: webmaster@naturalmedicineoc.com Copyright © 2003-2010. Natural 
		Medicine Center ™ & Agape Acupuncture, Inc. All rights reserved - Read Copyright Copyright , Discla