
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 10:12:02 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.facts-about-insomnia.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Melatonin For Insomnia Is A Useful Sleep Aid Facts About Insomnia Your guide to insomnia - its causes, symptoms and treatments. Melatonin For Insomnia Is A Useful Sleep Aid Some people take melatonin for insomnia to help regulate their normal sleep cycle and supplement the natural melatonin produced by your pineal gland. It responds to the amount of light or darkness in the environment and helps maintain your circadian rhythm, which is the normal daily cycles your body goes through. The kidneys naturally make more urine in the daytime compared to night and your levels of hormones vary throughout the day. Your body temperature is higher at some points of the day than others. These normal changes are rhythmic and aid us in staying functioning and alert during the day and allows to rest and rejuvenate when we should. Melatonin for insomnia can help stabilize a normal sleep cycle. Typically, you will find the levels of melatonin will go up as evening comes and peak in the middle hours of night, therefore synchronizing your sleep to the night. There are times where your sleep cycle get disrupted and its leads to daytime sleepiness and the inability to sleep at night. People have often referred to having their days and nights mixed up, and that’s actually what happens. One example is jet lag because this form of circadian insomnia occurs when your body feels it is in one time zone when you are physically in another. The body produces the melatonin on its own typical schedule. Even though it physically may be daylight out, your body will be craving deep sleep and may not want to wake for many more hours. It can be very helpful to take melatonin for insomnia caused by jet lag. Taken before bedtime, it is beneficial in resetting your biological clock. It is also conforting to know that it is a natural sleep aid . Night Workers and Melatonin For Insomnia One other typical example involves those who work night shift and therefore have their biological clocks off kilter for two reasons. Firstly, they lie awake when it is dark outside and try for sleep when it is light out. Secondly, they don’t do that all the time as on their days off they try to resume a normal sleep schedule. Therefore, there is a constant change in the hours they sleep. Melatrol with melatonin is one form of this natural sleep aid. Night workers often take melatonin for insomnia. Since melatonin production is suppressed by light, it’s most helpful to take melatonin for insomnia when you are trying to sleep during daylight hours. Because there is not adequate melatonin produced by the body during the day, you can not sleep well. Taking melatonin for insomnia can be very helpful when the insomnia is due to changes in your normal sleep cycle. It can either supplement the melatonin your body produces naturally so that you can sleep during the day, or it can help reset your biological clock so that you sleep better at night. Content Facts about Insomnia Top Ten Insomnia Tips Causes General Information Symptoms Treatments Sponsored Links Latest News [CaRP] XML error: syntax error at line 1 - Search this Site XML/RSS Feed Posts © Copyright 2012 - http://www.facts-about-insomnia.com 3Column SEO WordPress Theme by EasyWebTutorials.com ::: powered by WordPress IMPORTANT NOTICE/DISCLAIMER: We have put every effort into providing you with accurate information about insomnia and related subjects, but we do not accept liability for any losses or damages which may occur from the use of any information or products from this website. We are not doctors and the information provided on this website should not be taken as medical advice. Please contact your physician with any medical questions or