Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Honey vs. Dextromethorphan for Cough at Night;
Acupuncture & Hot Flashes & Breast Cancer; Physical
Activity & the Risk of Death; Mediterranean Diet & Death Health
Report: Honey vs. Dextromethorphan vs. No Treatment for Kids with Night-Time
Cough Acupuncture & Hot Flashes in Women with Breast Cancer Physical Activity & the Risk of Death Mediterranean Diet & Mortality By, Robert A. Wascher, MD, FACS "A critical weekly review
of important new research findings for
health-conscious readers..." Last Updated: 12/16/2007 The
information in this column is intended for informational
purposes
only, and does not constitute medical advice or recommendations by the
author.  Please consult with your physician before making any
lifestyle or medication changes, or if you have any other concerns
regarding your health. HONEY
vs. DEXTROMETHORPHAN vs. NO TREATMENT FOR KIDS WITH NIGHT-TIME COUGH Recent
research has suggested that over-the-counter cough and cold medicines
may potentially cause more harm than benefit, especially in younger
children. Based upon
recent compelling
research, long-time manufacturers of these children’s drugs are,
increasingly, withdrawing them from the market, fearing increased
exposure to liability in the aftermath of research calling into
question the safety and efficacy of these products. But staying up all night with a sick little one who cannot sleep
because they cannot stop coughing is a trying experience for both
parents and the sick child. In this study, just
published in the Archives of Pediatric
& Adolescent Medicine ,
105 children, ages 2 to 18, with upper respiratory infections were
given either honey, honey-flavored dextromethorphan (a cough
suppressant), or no treatment at all 30 minutes before bedtime. The children and parents receiving the honey and dextromethorphan were
not told which of these two interventions their children were assigned
to receive. A survey
was administered to all parents, asking them to assess their children’s
coughing over two consecutive nights. Based
upon the assessments of their parents, children receiving honey alone
experienced the greatest relief of their night-time coughing when
compared to dextromethorphan or no treatment. In fact, no difference was observed between those kids receiving
dextromethorphan and those who received no treatment at all. While the results of this study are based upon the subjective
assessment of their parents, it does at least offer parents a safe and
possibly effective alternative to the increasingly questionable (and
increasingly less available) over-the-counter cough and cold
medications that most of us have used for years. In fact, I intend to try a little honey in our home the next time one
of our younger children develops a respiratory infection with a cough. (Please remember, however,
that honey should not be given to any child under the age of 12 months; and that any child
with symptoms of a respiratory system lasting more than 48 hours, or
associated with a fever greater than 101.5 degrees, or with yellow- and
green- colored sputum, should be seen by a pediatrician.) ACCUPUNCTURE
& HOT FLASHES IN WOMEN WITH BREAST CANCER Women
undergoing treatment for breast cancer often experience symptoms of
menopause, either due to the loss of ovarian function from
chemotherapy, or as a side effect of drugs used to block receptors for
the female hormone estrogen. Physicians and
patients are increasingly reluctant to use hormone replacement therapy
(HRT) to treat these symptoms, in light of recent research
demonstrating an increased risk of developing breast cancer and stroke
among women taking certain combinations of HRT. Numerous
prescription and non-prescription remedies have been proposed for hot
flashes, the most troubling symptom associated with menopause. Primrose oil, flaxseed, black cohosh, soy products, antidepressants,
and other treatments have been touted by various advocates, with
variable success. A
new research paper, just published in the Journal
of Clinical Oncology , reports on the study of acupuncture as
a possible treatment for hot flashes in women with breast cancer. A total of 72 women enrolled in the study, and were subjected either to
acupuncture or to simulated acupuncture by a licensed acupuncture
therapist. This
study revealed a rather modest improvement in the frequency of hot
flashes following acupuncture, although patients receiving the
simulated acupuncture appeared to experience approximately the same
modest level of benefit as was seen in the acupuncture group. This
study involved only a small number of patients, and so it is difficult
to categorically state whether or not acupuncture is beneficial in the
treatment of hot flashes in women undergoing treatment for breast
cancer. Moreover,
the small but comparable
improvement seen in both groups of women in this study actually
suggests that the subjective reduction in the number of hot flashes
experienced by these women was most likely due to a well-known
phenomenon known as the “placebo effect,” and not because acupuncture,
itself, was an effective treatment. Perhaps larger studies, in the future, might still uncover evidence of
a beneficial effect with acupuncture. Based upon the modest findings of this small study, however, it is
difficult to ascribe any significant effects of acupuncture on
menopause-associated hot flashes at this time. PHYSICAL
ACTIVITY LEVELS & THE RISK OF DEATH Current
health guidelines recommend at least 30 minutes of moderate physical
activity 4 to 5 days per week, or at least 20 minutes of vigorous
exercise 3 times per week. However, the true impact of these guidelines on morality risk, when
they are followed, is not clear. A new study, just published in the Archives
of Internal Medicine , attempts to address this very issue. Over 250,000 retirees (ages 50 to 71) participated in this long term
National Institutes of Health-American Association of Retired Persons
Diet & Health Study. Upon entering this study, all participants completed an extensive
questionnaire regarding their dietary and exercise habits. The study volunteers were
then closely observed over time. Based
upon the data collected so far, increased levels of physical activity
appeared to be linked with improved survival in this large group of
retired folks. Among
those participants
reporting at least 30 minutes of moderate physical exercise on most
days of the week, the relative risk of dying during the course of this
study was 27% less than was observed among people who were mostly
inactive. Similarly,
those who engaged in
vigorous exercise for at least 20 minutes, 3 times per week,
experienced a 32% relative reduction in the relative risk of death when
compared to their sedentary fellow retirees. For those retirees who combined moderate daily exercise with at least
20 minutes of vigorous exercise 3 days out of every week, the reduction
in mortality was even greater, reaching a 50% reduction in the relative
risk of dying from any cause when compared to inactive retirees. On the other hand, even those people who engaged in some level of
mild-to-moderate exercise, even if it did not meet either of the
recommended exercise guidelines, still appeared to obtain a survival
benefit, achieving a 19% reduction in the relative risk of death! This
study appears to corroborate previous data linking regular and frequent
exercise with a reduction in the risk of dying from cardiovascular
disease and cancer (the two most common causes of death in the
developed world). One potential weakness of
this epidemiological study, however, is that it does not clearly
identify co-existing illnesses that might have contributed to increased
levels of inactivity among this large group of older persons. For example, people with
serious or life-threatening illnesses tend not to be as physically
active as otherwise healthy people. Obviously, if reduced levels of exercise are the direct result of
serious co-existing ailments, then one would expect to see an increased
mortality rate in this group of study participants based upon their
serious illnesses, primarily, rather than their lack of exercise alone. MEDITERRANEAN
DIET & MORTALITY The
generally lower risk of death due to cardiovascular disease in
Mediterranean Europe, when compared to the rest of the developed world,
has often been attributed to differences in diet and, specifically, to
the beneficial effects of the so-called Mediterranean Diet. Features of the Mediterranean Diet include vegetables (not including
potatoes or other starchy vegetables), fruit, nuts, whole grains, fish,
unsaturated fats (think olive oil, here), and alcohol taken in
moderation. At the
same time, this regional
diet includes lesser amounts of dairy products and red meat than is
typical in other western cultures. People
who adhere to the Mediterranean Diet generally have lower levels of
cholesterol in their blood, and have a lower incidence of obesity when
compared to those who indulge in the high-calorie, high-fat diet that
is so familiar to most of us here in the United States. A new study, in the Archives of Internal Medicine , takes a
look at the health impact of the Mediterranean Diet in the United
States. In fact, the data used for this study was collected from the very same
National Institutes of Health-American Association of Retired Persons
Diet & Health Study discussed above. During the 5 years of data collection for this study (encompassing
214,284 men and 166,012 women), 27,799 deaths occurred among study
participants, and the causes of these deaths were analyzed. When the researchers separated out those study participants who
followed the Mediterranean Diet and those who did not, some interesting
results were identified. Among
the men who followed the Mediterranean Diet, the overall risk of death
due to all causes, the risk of death due to cardiovascular diseases,
and the risk of death due to cancer, when compared to men who did not
follow the Mediterranean Diet, was reduced by 21%, 22%, and 17%,
respectively. Similar findings were found
among women participants favoring a Mediterranean Diet, ranging from a
12% reduction in deaths due to cancer, up to a 20% reduction in deaths
due to any cause. Multiple
other studies have come to similar conclusions, particularly after
comparing US populations with Mediterranean populations. This is one of the few studies that has looked at followers of the
Mediterranean Diet in the US, and compared them with “non-followers” in
the same country. Eat healthy and
exercise at least moderately… these are the fundamental lessons of the
last two studies presented here today. Disclaimer: As always, my advice to
readers is to seek the advice of your physician before making any significant changes in medications, diet, or level of
physical activity Dr.
Robert Wascher is an oncologic surgeon, professor of surgery, and a
widely published author. He is the Director of the Division of Surgical Oncology at Newark Beth
Israel Medical Center. Send your feedback to Dr. Wascher at rwascher@doctorwascher.net http://www.sbhcs.com/hospitals/newark_beth_israel/mservices/oncology/surgical.html Copyright 2007.  Robert
A. Wascher, MD, FACS.  All rights reserved. Dr. Wascher's
Archives: 12-11-2007: Bias in Medical
Research; Carbon Nanotubes & Radiofrequency: A New Weapon
Against Cancer?; Childhood Obesity & Risk of Adult Heart Disease 12-2-2007: Obesity
& Risk of Cancer;
Testosterone Level & Risk of Death; Drug Company Funding of
Research & Results; S