Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cancer: Causes, Prevention and Treatment Comprehensive review of the latest research into the causes, prevention and treatment of cancer Cancer: Causes, Prevention and Treatment by Hans R. Larsen, MSc ChE Cancer is the most feared disease in the western world today.  In the 
United States alone, almost 10,000 people die from it every week and 
every day another 3,000 hear the dreaded sentence "You have cancer"(1). Since 1971 more than 27 billion dollars have been spent in the United 
States on research to determine the causes of cancer and to find 
effective cures(2).  The results are not encouraging.  In the last 15 
years the age-adjusted incidence rate for all cancers has gone up over 
18% among men and over 12% among women.  Mortality rates have risen by 
3% and 6% respectively for men and women.  The incidence of breast 
cancer has risen by 30%, largely due to earlier detection, but this has 
not resulted in better survival rates.  The number of new prostate 
cancer cases is up 66% and mortality up 14%.  Lung cancer among women is 
up 65% and mortality up by 75%.  Mortality rates are down for some less 
common cancers such as bladder, rectum, and stomach cancer(3).  Early 
treatment of Hodgkin's disease has also saved many lives; but 
unfortunately, also vastly increases the risk of developing lymphoma 
later on(4,5). The sobering, inescapable fact is that conventional medicine is losing 
the war on cancer.  It is now expected that this dreaded disease will 
top heart disease as the most common cause of death by the year 2000.  
This means that one out of every three Americans will, at some point in 
their lives, be told that they have cancer; of those more than half will 
die from the disease within 5 years(6). Is there any light at all at the end of the tunnel?  Indeed there is.  
Cancer is predominantly a disease of western civilization and is largely 
due to the way we feed and treat our bodies and our wanton disregard for 
the environment.  Even the medical establishment agrees that cancer is 
almost totally preventable and that 80-90% of all cancers have their 
origin in poor dietary practices, smoking or exposure to known 
carcinogens(1).  While the hope that conventional medicine will find a 
cure for cancer is rapidly fading, there are now alternative cancer 
treatments which are very effective. The greatest single reason for the devastating toll that cancer takes is 
ignorance.  Ignorance about what cancer is and what causes it, ignorance 
about how it can be prevented, and ignorance about options for 
treatment.  Cancer is not some mysterious disease that strikes the 
unlucky out of the blue.  No, cancer develops for very specific reasons, 
it takes a very long time - 10 years or more to manifest, and it can be 
beaten every step of the way. What is Cancer? The great majority of cancers are carcinomas - tumors which develop in 
surface tissues or linings of internal organs; in other words, in the 
parts of the body most vulnerable to attack by carcinogens and free 
radicals.  Breast, lung, and prostate cancers are all carcinomas as are 
skin cancers and intestinal cancers.  The development of a cancer tumor 
follows a very specific pattern. In the initiation stage DNA is attacked by a carcinogen or free 
radical which causes a mutation in one of our genes or chromosomes(7).  
This attack most often occurs in organs which have been severely 
stressed by abuse, improper diet or a lingering infection.  For 
instance, heavy smokers are prone to developing lung cancer because they 
continually abuse their lungs; heavy drinkers get liver cancer, and 
people who eat a diet lacking in fiber and too rich in fat and protein 
tend to get colon cancer. Normally, the body's own enzyme repair mechanisms will quickly correct 
the genetic error and the mutation process stops.  However, once in 
awhile, the error goes undetected and if the mutated gene survives for 
five or six cell division cycles an abnormal or precancerous cell is 
formed.  A strong immune system may still destroy these precancerous 
cells but if it does not then the cells enter the promotion stage 
where they start reproducing rapidly and change their properties to 
those characteristic of malignant cells.  If the cancer cells survive 
the promotion stage they will enter the progression phase in 
which they grow large enough to develop their own blood supply and 
defense system and eventually grow into a full blown carcinoma.  If the 
tumor is not removed at this point, either by conventional or 
alternative means, it may, in time, spread to other areas of the body 
with usually fatal results. What Causes Cancer? The major causes of cancer are a faulty diet, smoking, excessive alcohol 
consumption, and exposure to toxic chemicals and radiation.  It is 
estimated that 60% of all cancers in men and 40% of all cancers in women 
are caused by a diet that is too high in fat and proteins and too low in 
fruits, vegetables and fiber.  Fats are believed to promote cancer 
rather than initiate it and animal fats and hydrogenated fats are 
particularly detrimental.  A high intake of protein has been associated 
with an increased risk of many types of cancer and a high sugar intake 
significantly increases the risk of breast cancer.  Smoked, pickled, 
salt-cured and barbecued foods are also potent cancer initiators while 
alcohol is strongly implicated in the promotion of already initiated 
cancer cells(1,8). Smoking and the exposure to second-hand smoke accounts for about 30% of 
all cancer deaths and it is estimated that 350,000 men and women die 
every year in the United States from smoking related illnesses - a 
deplorable and totally preventable waste of lives and healthcare 
dollars!  Pesticides and other toxic chemicals are increasingly 
implicated as cancer initiators.  Asbestos has been strongly linked to 
lung cancer and benzene to leukemia and bone marrow cancers.  
Chlorination of drinking water is another potent cause of cancer and is 
estimated to cause 15% of all cancers of the rectum and 9% of all 
bladder cancers.  Excessive exposure to solar radiation and 
electromagnetic fields can also lead to cancer(8). Although these causes of cancer are many and varied they have one thing 
in common - they are almost all avoidable! Prevention of Cancer Between 80-90% of all cancers are preventable; but it takes knowledge 
and determination to act on this fact.  The most important measures to 
prevent cancer are to eat a healthy diet, avoid smoking and second-hand 
smoke, and avoid exposure to toxic chemicals and radiation.  Maintaining 
a strong immune system and particularly an abundant supply of dietary 
antioxidants are equally important. A healthy diet is one that contains an abundance of fresh, preferably 
organically-grown fruits and vegetables.  The daily diet should be rich 
in fiber and low in fat.  Protein intake should be moderate and red meat 
consumption should be limited.  Sugar, alcohol, margarine and pickled, 
smoked, salted, and barbecued foods should be avoided. Getting daily exercise and avoiding excessive psychological stress are 
also important preventive measures.  Lack of physical activity has 
recently been implicated in the development of both breast and colon 
cancer(9).  A lack of sunlight has also been implicated in the 
development of breast and colon cancer, ovarian cancer, and 
osteoporosis(10).  It is important to get at least one half hour of 
unprotected sunlight every day and remember - sunscreens block the 
formation of vital vitamin D and do not protect against melanoma or 
squamous cell carcinoma(11). Antioxidants like vitamin-C and vitamin-E, beta-carotene, and selenium are all 
recognized cancer fighters.  They work by neutralizing the free radicals 
and toxins before they can initiate the gene mutation which eventually 
leads to cancer.  Numerous scientific studies have shown that many 
people have a low antioxidant intake and that this vastly increases 
their risk of cancer.  Other studies have shown that supplementing with 
antioxidants can significantly lower the risk of developing many types 
of cancer(7,12-21). A strong immune system is an essential defense against cancer.  A 
healthy diet will go a long way towards giving you a healthy immune 
system, but for optimum protection most progressive researchers 
recommend supplementation with appropriate amounts of vitamins, 
minerals, and especially antioxidants(12,13,22). So, by eating a healthy diet, taking the appropriate supplements, 
avoiding smoking and alcohol, keeping your stress level low, getting 
lots of exercise, and staying far away from radiation and toxic 
chemicals you can reduce your chances of developing cancer by 80-90%.  
However, what do you do if you or a loved one already has cancer?  The 
main thing to do is not to panic, to carefully evaluate your treatment 
options and above all, not to lose hope.  Cancer can be beaten! Conventional Treatments Conventional cancer treatment is based on the premise that cancer is an 
enemy that must be killed even if the therapy causes the patient great 
discomfort and perhaps even death.  Alternative treatment, on the other 
hand, is based on the philosophy that cancer is an indication that we 
are mistreating our body and that cancer can be contained or reversed by 
giving the body all the help it needs in order to heal itself.  Not 
surprisingly, these two philosophies have led to totally different 
methods of treatment. Irrespective of which treatment you ultimately choose, there are certain 
steps that should be taken as soon as you are diagnosed with cancer. Gather all the information you can about your particular type of 
cancer and the options for treating it.  Contact support organizations 
such as Cancer Victors and Friends and get plugged into a network of 
people who "have been there and survived". Get a clear understanding of what your doctor proposes to do and if 
you feel at all uncomfortable with that, get a second opinion.  Do not 
omit to investigate the options for alternative therapy. Unless your doctor advises otherwise, begin boosting your immune 
system immediately.  The late Dr. Linus Pauling recommended that all 
cancer patients start vitamin supplementation as early as possible.  The 
preferred regimen, formulated by Canadian Dr. Abram Hoffer, involves a 
daily intake of 12,000 mg vitamin-C, 800 IU vitamin-E, 1500 mg vitamin-B3 (nicotinic acid or nicotinamide), 25 or 50 times the RDA 
(Recommended Daily Allowance) of other B vitamins, and 200 micrograms of 
selenium.  NOTE: It is necessary to start with smaller amounts of the 
supplements and build up gradually(23). Cancer is usually a rapidly progressing disease so time is of the 
essence.  However, being stampeded into the wrong treatment may later 
prove to be a fatal mistake.  Do your homework, talk to former cancer 
patients, and then select the treatment you firmly believe will help you 
and stick with it. The conventional medical establishment is committed to a policy of 
"cutting, burning, or poisoning" you in their endeavour to rid you of 
cancer.  So if you wish to evaluate gentler, and in many cases far more 
effective therapies, you usually won't get much help from your medical 
doctor.  The "cancer industry" is very big indeed with an estimated 
annual revenue of over 50 billion dollars.  This conglomerate does not 
take kindly to competition and, together with the FDA (Food and Drug 
Administration), has pretty well managed to drive alternative cancer 
clinics out of the United States.  However, you will find many very 
professional and highly effective alternative clinics in Europe, Mexico, 
the Bahamas, New Zealand, etc. Conventional cancer treatment has its place in the fight against cancer, 
but quite often it does more harm than good.  The three main modalities 
of conventional treatment are: surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Surgery can be quite effective when it comes to the removal of 
easily accessible, relatively small, early stage, localized tumors as 
for instance in the breast, colon, uterus or bladder.  Some cases of 
stomach cancer also respond well to surgery.  Surgery is no longer the 
only method for treating melanoma and skin cancer as there are now very 
effective herbal-based ointments which will remove the tumors in a 
relatively short time with no danger of metastasis.  Surgery, of course, 
does not address at all the underlying cause of the cancer.  So unless 
appropriate lifestyle and dietary changes are made, the cancer is likely 
to recur.  Surgery and even biopsies also carry the very real danger of 
spreading the cancer to other organs in the body.  The success rate for 
surgery can be improved by boosting the immune system before the 
operation and by timing it right.  For instance, recent research has 
shown that breast cancer surgery is far more likely to be successful if 
carried out in the second half of the menstrual cycle(24,25). Chemotherapy is the least valuable and most dangerous of all 
conventional treatment modes.  It uses a variety of highly toxic drugs 
to kill the cancer cells.  Perhaps the greatest problem with 
chemotherapy is that it seriously weakens the immune system just at the 
time when it is needed the most.  Chemotherapy has been used with some 
success in the treatment of Hodgkin's disease and certain lymphomas and 
leukemias.  However, chemotherapy is generally not useful in the 
treatment of the most common cancers like breast, colon, and lung 
cancer.  Dr. John Cairns of the Harvard School of Public Health 
estimates that only a small percentage of the thousands of patients 
undergoing chemotherapy actually benefit from it(26).  Other cancer 
researchers are less charitable in their opinion of chemotherapy. "Physicians are intimidated into using regimens which they know do 
not work. One of the most glaring examples is chemotherapy which 
does not work for the majority of cancers" says Dr. Alan Levin, 
Professor of Immunology at the University of California.  Professor 
Levin goes on to add that physicians "are coerced into using it 
by special interest groups which have vested interests in the profits of 
the drug industry."  Drugs used in chemotherapy have devastating side 
effects and patients undergoing chemotherapy, apart from being 
thoroughly miserable, frequently die of pneumonia, common infections or 
other cancers(27). Radiation therapy uses high-intensity x-rays to prevent cancer 
cells from reproducing; in the process it also kills off healthy cells, 
depresses the immune system, causes very unpleasant side effects, and 
greatly increases the risk of developing leukemia later on.  Dr. John 
Cairns of the Harvard School of Public Health believes that "the 
majority of cancers cannot be cured by radiation because the dose of x-
rays required to kill all the cancer cells would also kill the patient."  
Early studies at the Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center concluded that 
patients who received no radiation lived longer than those who were 
irradiated.  Radiation therapy can be useful in early Hodgkin's disease, 
and in treating localized tumors of the prostate, cervix, head, neck, 
and larynx.  In most other cases, it is of limited value and causes more 
harm than good(26,27). Overall, radiation and chemotherapy probably prevent less than three per 
cent of the half a million deaths from cancer that occur every year in 
the USA(26). The failure of conventional medicine in coming to grips with cancer is 
perhaps best illustrated by looking at lung cancer.  Lung cancer is now 
the most common cause of death from cancer.  Researchers at the National 
Cancer Institute (NCI) estimate that 149,000 men and women died from the 
disease in 1993 in the United States alone.  The survival rate for lung 
cancer patients has not changed between 1973 and 1987 and remains at 
around 13 per cent.  This means that eight out of ten people who are 
diagnosed with lung cancer today will be dead within five years.  
Researchers at the NCI admit that the current, conventional treatment of 
lung cancer is ineffective and state "The lack of improvement in 
survival underscores the importance of lung cancer prevention and early 
diagnosis, because various therapeutic interventions have had relatively 
little effect on lung cancer survival in the general population."(28) Before you agree to surgery, chemotherapy or radiation ask your doctor 
what your chances are of immediate and five-year survival, investigate 
your other options (alternative therapies), and then make up your mind. Alternative Treatments Because of the poor results obtained with conventional therapies and the 
great harm they can cause, alternative therapies are gaining in 
acceptance and popularity.  These therapies are all based on assisting 
the body's own defense systems in destroying the cancer cells.  They use 
various methods to achieve this with most of them requiring a great deal 
of commitment and determination on the part of the patient.  As in the 
case of conventional treatments, very few, if any, controlled 
experiments have been carried out on the value of the various therapies, 
so testimony as to their effectiveness usually comes from former 
patients and is spread by word of mouth.  One notable exception is the 
megadose vitamin therapy pioneered by Drs. Linus Pauling, Ewan Cameron, 
and Abram Hoffer. Megadose vitamin therapy involves the ingestion of large amounts 
of vitamins.  This treatment has been extensively evaluated at the Vale 
of Leven Hospital in Scotland under the supervision of Dr. Cameron.  The 
experiments found that terminal cancer patients who received large, 
daily doses of vitamin C along with their regular treatment lived much 
longer than patients who did not receive vitamin C; they also had less 
pain and in general, a much improved quality of life(29). Vitamin C has many properties which makes it an excellent cancer 
fighter.  It is a detoxifying agent, an antioxidant, and helps to 
produce antibodies.  It is also very important in preventing growing 
tumors from invading adjacent tissue(30). Dr. Hoffer of Victoria, Canada later expanded on the Pauling/Cameron 
treatment protocol by adding large amounts of vitamin E, vitamin B-3, 
other B vitamins, beta-carotene, and some minerals.  Those of Dr. 
Hoffer's cancer patients who followed this regimen lived, on the 
average, about 16 times longer than those who did not(31). In January 1994, Dr. Donald Lamm and his colleagues at the West Virginia 
University School of Medicine reported that daily megadose vitamin 
therapy significantly lessens the risk of recurrence in bladder cancer 
patients.  Patients who received the therapy, on the average, had less 
than half the tumor recurrence rate than did patients who did not 
receive it.  Dr. Lamm's vitamin combination included multivitamins (RDA 
dosages) plus 40,000 IU vitamin A, 100 mg vitamin B-6, 2,000 mg vitamin 
C, 400 IU vitamin E, and 90 mg zinc(32). The megadose vitamin therapy, so far, has only been evaluated in 
combination with conventional cancer treatments. Metabolic and herbal therapies aim at cleansing the body, 
boosting the immune system, and assisting the body in ridding itself of 
the cancer and the toxins created by the breakdown of the tumor. The Gerson therapy was formulated by Dr. Max Gerson, a German 
physician who came to the United States just before World War II.  Dr. 
Gerson believed that cancer results from a faulty metabolism and long-
term exposure to pesticides and other environmental pollutants.  His 
treatment involves a detoxification program and a meat-free, salt-free, 
and low-fat diet along with copious quantities of fresh fruit and 
vegetable juices as well as various supplements.  The Gerson program is 
particularly effective for melanoma, lymphomas, and cancers of the 
liver, pancreas and colon.  Success has also been achieved with 
inoperable brain cancer, metastasized breast cancer, and prostate 
cancer.  The Gerson therapy is available on an in-patient basis at the 
Centro Hospitalario Internationale del Pacifico in Tijuana, Mexico(33). The Hoxsey therapy was developed by a self-taught American 
healer, Harry Hoxsey.  By the 1950s, the Hoxsey Cancer Clinic in Dallas 
was the world's largest private cancer clinic.  In 1960, however, the 
American Medical Association, the National Cancer Institute, and the 
Food and Drug Administration managed to close down the clinic.  It later 
reopened in Tijuana, Mexico as the Bio-Medical Center.  The clinic 
treats all kinds of cancer on an out-patient basis only; best results 
have been achieved with lymphoma, melanoma, and skin cancer; however, 
patients with breast, cervical, prostate, colon, and lung cancers have 
also been successfully treated.  The Hoxsey therapy includes the total 
avoidance of pork, vinegar, tomatoes, carbonated drinks, alcohol, 
bleached flour, and refined sugar.  Various supplements are also given 
with the main component of the treatment being the Hoxsey tonic which 
consists of several different herbs, many with potent anti-cancer 
effects(34). Immune therapies are used in both conventional and alternative 
treatment protocols.  The Livingston Foundation Medical Center in 
San Diego treats cancer patients with various individually-tailored 
vaccines, gamma globulin, and a vegetarian diet with vitamin and mineral 
supplements.  The Immunology Research Center in Freeport, Bahamas 
uses injections of immune substances to augment the body's own immune 
system and claims good success with breast, colon, kidney, and bladder 
cancer.  The Burzynski Research Institute in Houston, Texas uses 
injections or supplements of peptides and amino acid derivatives 
occurring naturally in the body to augment the body's biochemical 
defense system and reprogram cancer cells so that they revert to normal 
development(35,36). Other alternative therapies are based on the use of specific 
formulations such as the Canadian herbal remedy Essiac which has 
been used with apparent success since 1922. Shark cartilage has 
been found to be particularly effective against brain cancer and 
prostate, liver and breast metastases.  It works by interfering with the 
tumor's ability to create a vitally needed blood supply. Hydrazine 
sulfate is particularly effective in combatting cachexia, a deadly 
condition which causes many cancer patients to starve to death.  It has 
also been used with success in Russia to treat lymphatic 
cancer(37,38,39,40). There are many highly respected alternative cancer therapies in use in 
Europe.  The late Johanna Budwig, MD advocated a combination of 
sulfur-containing protein and essential fatty acids to treat many types 
of cancer. Dr. Hans Nieper, MD in Hanover, Germany uses a 
vegetarian diet and various combinations of vitamins, minerals, 
laetrile, and special vaccines.  Dr. Nieper claims that 45 to 48 per 
cent of those of his patients who have been declared incurable by 
conventional medicine have their cancer under control after 18 months or 
less on his program.  The Breuss Clinic in Hanover, Germany uses 
lengthy juice fasts and a totally protein-free diet to bring many 
cancers under control(41,42,43). The Centre for Advanced Medicine in Auckland, New Zealand has excellent facilities for treating heart disease, 
cancer, and osteoporosis. Traditional Chinese medicine and ayurvedic medicine also have specific treatments for many 
cancers; the ancient technique of Qi Gong has been found to be 
particularly effective (44,45). It is clear that there is an enormous range of alternative therapies 
available to aid in the fight against cancer.  The challenge is to find 
the right one, the one you believe will work for you, and then commit to 
it.  The fact that your conventional doctor may have told you that your 
illness is terminal and that nothing can be done is really irrelevant.  
It just means that conventional medicine cannot help you, but it is 
certainly no reason to give up.  Remember though, just as conventional 
treatments should only be carried out by professionals so should 
alternative treatments.  Self-diagnosis and self-medication have no 
place when it comes to fighting cancer. CLICK HERE FOR THE LATEST RESEARCH ON CANCER Bibliography Cameron, E. and Pauling L. Cancer and Vitamin C 1993, Camino Books Inc., 
Philadelphia, PA Burton Goldberg Group Alternative Medicine: The Definitive Guide 1993, Future 
Medicine Publishing Inc., Puyallup, WA Keough, C., editor The Complete Book of Cancer Prevention 1988, Rodale Press 
Inc., Emmaus, PA Passwater, R.A. Cancer Prevention and Nutritional Therapies 1993, Keats Publishing 
Inc., New Canaan, CT Simone, C.B. Cancer and Nutrition 1994, Avery Publishing Group Inc., Garden City 
Park, NY Walters, R. Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book 1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY References Simone, C.B.  Cancer and Nutrition  1994, Avery Publishing Group Inc., Garden City 
Park, NY, pp. 2-4 Marshall, Eliot. A new phase in the war on cancer. Science, Vol. 267, March 10, 1995, 
pp. 1412-15 Devesa, Susan S., et al. Recent cancer trends in the United States. Journal of the 
National Cancer Institute, Vol. 87, No. 3, February 1, 1995, pp. 175-82 Boivin, Jean-Francois, et al. Incidence of second cancers in patients treated for 
Hodgkin's disease. Journal of the National Cancer Institute, Vol. 87, No. 10, May 17, 
1995, pp. 732-41 Boice, John D. and Travis, Lois B. Body wars: effect of friendly fire (cancer 
therapy). Journal of the National Cancer Institute, Vol. 87, No. 10, May 17, 1995, 
pp. 705-06 Passwater, R.A.  Cancer Prevention and Nutritional Therapies  1993, Keats Publishing 
Inc., New Canaan, CT, pp. 13-15 Uddin, Shahab and Ahmad, Sarfraz. Antioxidants protection against cancer and other 
human diseases.  Comprehensive Therapy, Vol. 21, No. 1, 1995, pp. 41-45 Burton Goldberg Group  Alternative Medicine: The Definitive Guide  1993, Future 
Medicine Publishing Inc., Puyallup, WA, pp. 558-63 Bernstein, Leslie, et al. Physical exercise and reduced risk of breast cancer in young 
women. Journal of the National Cancer Institute, Vol. 86, No. 18, September 21, 1994, 
pp. 1403-08 Schneider Lefkowitz, Ellen and Garland, Cedric F. Sunlight, vitamin D, and ovarian 
cancer mortality rates in US women.  International Journal of Epidemiology, Vol. 23, 
No. 6, December 1994, pp. 1133-36 Larsen, Hans R. Sunscreens: Do they cause skin cancer? International Journal of 
Alternative and Complementary Medicine, Vol. 12, No. 12, December 1994, pp. 17-19 Block, Gladys. The data support a role for antioxidants in reducing cancer risk. 
Nutrition Reviews, Vol. 50, No. 7, July 1992, pp. 207-13 Block, Gladys. Micronutrients and cancer: time for action? Journal of the National 
Cancer Institute, Vol. 85, No. 11, June 2, 1993, pp. 846-47 Diplock, Anthony T. Antioxidant nutrients and disease prevention: an overview. 
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Vol. 53, 1991, pp. 189S-93S Frei, Balz. Reactive oxygen species and antioxidant vitamins: mechansims of action.  
The American Journal of Medicine, Vol. 97, Suppl. 3A, September 26, 1994, pp. 5S-13S Block, G. Epidemiologic evidence regarding vitamin C and cancer. American Journal of 
Clinical Nutrition, Vol. 54 (6 suppl.), December 1991, pp. 1310S-14S Ferraroni, M. et al. Selected micronutrient intake and the risk of colorectal cancer. 
British Journal of Cancer, Vol. 70, December 1994, pp. 1150-55 Stahelin, H.B., et al. Plasma antioxidant vitamins and subsequent cancer mortality in 
the 12-year follow-up of the prospective Basel Study. American Journal of 
Epidemiology, Vol. 133, No. 8, April 15, 1991, pp. 766-75 Blot, William J., et al. Nutrition intervention trials in Linxian, China: 
supplementation with specific vitamin/mineral combinations, cancer incidence, and 
disease-specific mortality in the general population. Journal of the National Cancer 
Institute, Vol. 85, No. 18, September 15, 1993, pp. 1483-91 Blot, William J., et al. Lung cancer and vitamin supplementation. The New England 
Journal of Medicine, Vol. 331, No. 9, September 1, 1994, p. 614 Han, Jui. Highlights of the cancer chemoprevention studies in China. Preventive 
Medicine, Vol. 22, September 1993, pp. 712-22 Voelker, Rebecca. Recommendations for antioxidants: how much evidence is enough? 
Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 271, No. 15, April 20, 1994, pp. 
1148-49 Cameron, E. and Pauling L.  Cancer and Vitamin C  1993, Camino Books Inc., 
Philadelphia, PA, p. xxiii Veronesi, Umberto, et al. Effect of menstrual phase on surgical treatment of breast 
cancer. The Lancet, Vol. 343, June 18, 1994, pp. 1545-47 Fentiman, Ian S., et al. Effect of menstrual phase on surgical treatment of breast 
cancer (letters to the editor). The Lancet, Vol. 344, August 6, 1994, pp. 402-04 Cairns, J. The treatment of diseases and the war against cancer, Scientific American, 
Vol. 253, November 1985, pp. 51-59 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 9-13 Travis, William D., et al. Lung cancer. Cancer Supplement, Vol. 75, No. 1, January 1, 
1995, pp. 191-202 Cameron, E. and Pauling L.  Cancer and Vitamin C  1993, Camino Books Inc., 
Philadelphia, PA, pp. 129-39 Cameron, E. and Pauling L.  Cancer and Vitamin C  1993, Camino Books Inc., 
Philadelphia, PA, pp. 108-19 Cameron, E. and Pauling L.  Cancer and Vitamin C  1993, Camino Books Inc., 
Philadelphia, PA, pp. 242-55 Lamm, Donald L., et al. Megadose vitamins in bladder cancer: a double-blind clinical 
trial. The Journal of Urology, Vol. 151, January 1994, pp. 21-26 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 189-203 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 95-104 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 59-81 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 17-27 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 105-19 Passwater, R.A.  Cancer Prevention and Nutritional Therapies  1993, Keats Publishing 
Inc., New Canaan, CT, pp. 94-104 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 47-54 Heimlich, Jane. Cancer treatments: What your oncologist won't tell you. Health & 
Healing, February 1995 Supplement Erasmus, Udo.  Fats and Oils  1986, Alive Books, Vancouver, BC, pp. 267-76 Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 216-26 Breuss, Rudolph.  The Breuss Cancer Cure  1995, Alive Books, Vancouver, BC New Zealand Cancer Congress, March 10-12, 1995, Auckland, NZ Walters, R.  Options: The Alternative Cancer Therapy Book  1993, Avery Publishing 
Group, Garden City Park, NY, pp. 293-318 Help Organizations The Alliance for Alternative Medicine P.O. Box 59 Liberty Lake, WA 99019 U.S.A. (509) 255-9246 Cancer Control Society 2043 North Berendo Street Los Angeles, CA 90027 U.S.A. (213) 663-7801 International Association for Cancer Victors and Friends 7740 West Manchester Avenue - Suite 110 Playa del Rey, CA 90293 U.S.A. (310) 822-5032 International Association of Cancer Victors and Friends Victoria Branch P.O. Box 8125 Victoria, BC  V8W 3R6 Canada (604) 360-2988 People Against Cancer P.O. Box 10 Otho, Iowa 50569 U.S.A. (515) 972-4444 Treatment Centers Burzynski Clinic 6221 Corporate Drive Houston, TX 77036 U.S.A. (713) 777-8233 Gerson Institute P.O. Box 430 Bonita, CA 91908 U.S.A. (619) 472-7450 Bio-Medical Center (Hoxsey) P.O. Box 727 615 General Ferreira Colonia Juarez Tijuana, Mexico 22000 011 52 66-84-9011 Immuno-Augmentative Therapy Center P.O. Box F-2689 Freeport, Grand Bahama (809) 352-7455 Livingston Foundation Medical Center 3232 Duke Street San Diego, CA 92110 U.S.A. (619) 224-3515 Fasten kur nach Breuss Haus Chattenbuhl 34346 Hannover, Germany Hans A. Nieper, M.D. 21, Sedanstrasse 3000 Hannover 1, Germany 011 49 511 348-0808 Centre for Advanced Medicine 3 Warborough Avenue, Epsom Auckland 3, New Zealand This article was first published in The International Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, Vol. 14, No. 1, January 1996, pp. 9-11 INDEX OF REPORTS SUBSCRIBE/RENEW HERE ENTRANCE/HOME International Health News and The AFIB Report are published 10 times a year by Hans R. Larsen MSc ChE 1320 Point Street, Victoria, BC, Canada V8S 1A5 Phone: (250) 384-2524 E-mail:  editor@yourhealthbase.com URL: http://www.yourhealthbase.com ISSN 1203-1933.....Copyright © 1996-2004 by Hans R. Larsen International Health News and The AFIB Report do not provide medical advice.  Do not attempt self-                                                         
diagnosis or self-medication based on our reports.  Please consult your health-care                                                          
pro