Cache-Control: max-age=7200, must-revalidate
Expires: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 01:34:30 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://www.consultation.ayurvediccure.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural cure for muscle cramps - How to treat muscle cramps - Prevent muscle cramps | Health Questions & Answers Register | Member Log In Natural cure for Muscle Cramps Muscle cramps are the painful spasmodic contraction of muscles that can affect any muscle group of the body. These cramps are most likely to attack the muscles of the calves, legs and feet as they tend to bear maximum strain. It is estimated that around 50% of individuals between the age group of 15-80 years are prone to getting muscle cramps at some point of time. The main causes of muscle cramps include dietary deficiencies, irritability, stress, physical strain on a specific muscle group, oxygen deficiency in the tissues, menstruation , menopause , hormonal imbalance, uremia, ageing and peripheral vascular disease. Natural cure for muscle cramps : Muscle cramps can be treated by intake of a well balanced diet and overcoming dietary deficiencies in the body. The diet of an individual suffering from muscle cramps must comprise of all the vital nutrients such as calcium, potassium, magnesium, Vitamin D and Vitamin B6. Green leafy vegetables, fresh fruits, yogurt, cottage cheese, beans and cereals like millets, oats, unpolished rice and sesame seeds should be taken on a daily basis. Citrus fruits, particularly their juices, meats and wheat products should be avoided as they are deficient in calcium. Vitamin C should be taken in large doses as it helps in the assimilation of calcium in the body and prevents it from accumulating in the joints. Vitamin E is also highly beneficial for treating muscle cramps . It enhances the circulation of the leg muscles and helps combat this condition effectively. Vitamin E- 1000 supplements can be taken on a daily basis to treat muscle cramps . Potassium combats mental tension and stress and is highly beneficial in dealing with muscle cramps caused due to increased levels of stress in the body. Massage is another effective way by means of which you can relieve muscle cramps. Arthcare Oil is one of the best massage oils available for countering this condition. It helps alleviate pain and strengthens the bones and joints, thereby preventing further cramps. Regular exercises such as walking, jogging, swimming, aerobics, fitness ball, yoga and stretching increase blood circulation and decrease the chances of getting muscle cramps. Exercising is very important for maintaining the health of the entire body and helps increase the supply of oxygen and nutrients to various body organs, tissues and bones that is required for keeping them in good health. In: General Health , Others By: editor points No Answers yet, be the first to Answer! Tweet Share Share | Answer this Question You must be Logged In to Answer this Question Not a member yet? Sign Up Now » Related Questions What are muscle cramps? Can you Answer these Questions? Get your questions answered now! Member Log In Now » Recent Questions became so much thin, lost my valuable semen for 10-12 years, now became thin, in Men's Health weight does not increase, lost semen for a long time 10-12 years, now became so much thin. in Men's Health my penis not awake automaticaly .and not hard .suggestion in Penis Health U have suggested me 3 products…
http://www.ayurvediccure.com/butea-superba-gel.htm
http://www.ayurvediccure.com/butea_superba.htm
http://www.ayurvediccure.com/amla.htm in Sexual Problems sir i have a pain in testis since 1 month in Sexual Problems Is my Semen Analysis report normal? in Sexual Health inquiry to know is it availible in pakistan in Sexual Health Recent Comments Alice on curved penis to right side.how to make it straight Alice on please kindly help me
please !!!!!! Alice on kindlly help in infertility problem Alice on now am 63.i want to make my cock every time strong.can u suggest any medicine or creame? Alice on confusion between two product recommendation for same Q. Popular Categories Beauty Body Care Face Care Hair Care Nails Care Skin Care General Health Acid Reflux Acne Allergy Alternative Therapies Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Cardiovascular Disorder Cellulite Child & Teen Health Cholesterol Constipation Diabetes Diarrhea Diet Dysentery Ear, Nose & Throat Eczema Fitness Gastrointestinal Disorders Hair Loss Headache Herbal Remedies High Blood Pressure Home Remedies Immune System Injuries & Burns Insomnia Kidney Problems Liver Problems Migraine Obesity Respiratory Tract Disorders Senior Health Skin & Hair Problems Stress & Depression Tooth Care Vitamins Warts Men's Health Erectile Dysfunction Fitness & Diet Penis Health Premature Ejaculation Prostate Problems Sexual Health Skin Problems Products Women's Health Breast Care Breast Enlargement Breast Reduction Diet & Fitness Fertility & Infertility Leucorrhoea Menopause Menstrual Problems Other Pregnancy Sexual Problems Uterine Bleeding Vaginal Problems Weight Loss Question & Answers Links Home Ask a Question Answer a Question Sitemap Expert Rating Scale Level 1 Newbie Level 2 Few Days Old Level 3 Contributor Level 4 Reputed Member Level 5 Expert Member Level 6 Professional Kohinoor Gold - Breast Enlargement - How to Tight Vagina © 2011 Health Questions & Answers . All R