
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 01:14:49 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Valerian Root & Passion Flower - Encapsulated Herbal Extracts - Combo Herbs - Viable Herbal Solutions Home Contact Us Wholesale Search Site Login View Shopping Cart Skip to Main Content » HEALTH BLENDS SINGLE HERBS COMBO HERBS FDA INFO ABOUT US FAQ REWARD POINTS March means St. Patrick’s Day , and most everybody loves to don some green finery and celebrate the event. Let’s celebrate with one of nature’s finest “green grasses” – BARLEY GRASS . Barley has been an exceptionally nourishing staple in the human diet for thousands of years, providing a powerhouse of essential vitamins, amino acids, minerals, antioxidants and many more nutrients that your body needs every single day. Reflecting its rich chlorophyll content , Barley Grass is a great support for digestive and immune system health and naturally healthy pH balance - as well as a natural “green” tonic to support healthy skin, hair and nails . Viable Herbal Solutions is offering Barley Grass at a special 15% discount to you for the entire month of MARCH, 2012. Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with nature’s finest green grass! Barley Grass is right here at your fingertips. Order yours now! My Cart You have 0 items in your cart Recently Viewed Evening Primrose/Dong Quai/Chasteberry Milk Thistle/Turmeric Root/Artichoke Rutin/Hesperidin/Quercetin Echinacea Purp/Astragalus Root/Reishi Mushroom Ginger Root/Chamomile/Marshmallow Root Newsletter Sign up for our newsletter: Subscribe Home / Valerian Root / Passion Flower Valerian Root / Passion Flower SKU: C660 Email to a Friend This blend combines two of the most well-known herbal sedatives. Valerian Root is an excellent sleep and relaxation herb. Valerian is a smooth muscle and skeletal relaxant, as well as a premier sedative that aids in anxiety, stress and insomnia. Recent studies indicate that the valepotriate and valerenic acid constituents can bind to the same receptor sites in the brain as benzodiazepine drugs. Passion Flower is a native of the Western Hemisphere, named for symbolic connections drawn between its appearance and the Crucifixion of Jesus. Native Americans used Passion Flower primarily as a mild sedative. It quickly became popular as a folk remedy in Europe, and was thereafter adopted by professional herbalists as a sedative and digestive aid. Item # C660: Valerian Root / Passion Flower 60 Capsules $13.50 Add to Cart 90 Capsules $18.23 Add to Cart 450 Capsules $68.34 Add to Cart 700 Capsules $99.10 Add to Cart 1150 Capsules $152.61 Add to Cart 1400 Capsules $170.92 Add to Cart Valerian Root was traditionally used for epilepsy, sleeplessness, nervousness, hysteria and as a diuretic and emmenagogue. It has been used for nervousness and insomnia in Ayurvedic Medicine in India and in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM).  By the eighteenth century, this Valerian was an accepted sedative, and was also used for nervous disorders associated with a restless digestive tract.  During World War I, Valerian was given to shell-shocked soldiers and stressed civilians.  In Europe, Valerian is still the most common, non-prescription sedative, and over one hundred Valerian preparations are sold in pharmacies.  Valerian Root was a very popular sleep sedative in the United States until it was displaced by synthetic drugs after World War II. Clinical studies have shown that people taking Valerian Root had shown significantly improved sleep quality without morning grogginess.  Some researchers have compared Valerian Root to benzodiazepines such as ValiumT. However, Valerian is a much milder and safer sedative.  Unlike ValiumT, Valerian is non-addictive and does not promote dependency.  Further, Valerian's sedative effect is not significantly exaggerated by alcohol and barbiturates (unlike ValiumT), although it is never wise to mix any sedatives.  Perhaps more importantly, Valerian has not been linked to any birth defects (again, unlike ValiumT).  Valerian is a smooth muscle and skeletal relaxant, as well as a premier sedative that aids in anxiety, stress and insomnia.  The primary chemical constituents of Valerian Root include valepotriates, alkaloids (chatinine, valerine), valerenic acid, essential oils (acetic acid, borneol, pinene, camphene), caffeic acid, beta-sitosterol, tannin, manganese, calcium, choline, and B-vitamins.  Valerian Root contains many different constituents, including essential oils that appear to contribute to the sedating properties of the herb.  Central nervous system sedation is regulated by receptors in the brain known as GABA-A receptors, and Valerian may weakly bind to these receptors to exert a sedating effect.  Recent studies indicate that valepotriates and valerenic acid can bind to the same receptor sites in the brain as benzodiazepine drugs.  It is believed to reduce hypertension due to stress and reduce pain from shingles. Experiments in Italy and Germany, conducted over two decades, have found that Valerian preparations may be effective in treating children with psychomotor agitation (hyperactivity) and behavioral disorders. In fact, in these children, the preparation enhanced motor coordination and maintained reaction time, while calming anxiety and fears, easing restlessness and curbing aggression. Passion Flower is also known by the names Maypop, Passiflora, Apricot Vine, Flower Of The Five Wounds and Water Lemon.  It is a woody vine with flowers that reminded early (seventeenth century) pilgrims of the Passion and Suffering of Jesus Christ; hence, its English name.  Passion Flower bears small berry-like fruit called granadilla  or water lemon. The plant is native to North, Central and South America.  While primarily tropical, some of its four hundred species can grow in colder climates.  The plant is also nicknamed Maypop, descriptive of the popping sound the fruit makes when mashed.  Passion Flower was first investigated scientifically less than one hundred years ago when it was found to possess an analgesic (pain-killing) property, and to prevent, without side effects, sleeplessness caused by brain inflammation.  Since then, the sedative properties of Passion Flower have been observed and documented in many studies. Primary chemical constituents of this herb include alkaloids (harman, harmine, harmaline, harmol, harmalol), flavonoids (apigenin, luteolin, Quercitin, Rutin), flavone glycosides, sterols, sugars and gums. The flavonoids in Passion Flower are primarily responsible for its relaxing and anti-anxiety effects.  Today, Passion Flower is an extremely popular herb in Europe, where it is often used to induce relaxation and sleep, an effect first experimentally verified in 1920.  In that study, the researcher noticed that, unlike what happens with narcotics, sleep was induced normally, with easy, light breathing, and with little or no neural or mental depression.  Upon awakening, the patients showed no signs of confusion or stupor or melancholy.  And Passion Flower is non-addictive.  In 1979, about fifty preparations on the market in Germany contained Passion Flower - forty-two were sedatives, and six were cardio-tonics. These preparations were recommended for nervous or easily aroused children, cardiovascular neurosis, bronchial asthma, coronary diseases, weak circulation, sleep disorders, problems of concentration in school children and in geriatrics.  This herb is also used to treat female anxiety during menses, childbirth and menopause.  Passion Flower is said to help reduce spasms and calm the central nervous system.  Passion Flower has also been shown to kill bacteria, making it a good choice for treating eye problems such as inflammation and infection.  Topical applications of this herb have included use as a compress for swollen eyes, burns and skin irritations, as well as in poultices or juices for burns and wounds. Recommended Dosage: Take two (2) capsules, two (2) to three (3) times each day with water at mealtimes. Contraindications: This product is not recommended if you are pregnant, or if you suffer from low blood pressure or hypoglycemia. Used at the recommended dosage listed above, this product is safe; however, since both herbs may cause sleepiness, it should not be used before driving or operating machinery. Do not use if you take MAO inhibiting antidepressant drugs, and it should not be taken with other prescription sedatives or sedative herbs or alcohol, as it can increase their sedative effects. Capsule Information: Our Absinthe supplements are encapsulated in 100% Gluten-free, Vegetable Cellulose, Certified Kosher , size "00" Capsules. (click here for size comparison) Each capsule contains approximately 600 mgs. Special Note: If any medical terms on our website are confusing or unknown, we have compiled a small dictionary of terms for you. Click here for our Definitions, and go directly to the word in question for further information. Disclaimer: The information presented herein by Viable Herbal Solutions is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult with your own health care provider. Viable Herbal Solutions (866) 437-3122 8am - 5pm EST, M-F. Customer Service Shipping Policies Returns & Exchanges Privacy Policy Ordering Information Reward Program Viable Herbal About Us Help & Info FAQ - Questions My Account Follow Us Facebook Twitter StumbleUpon © Copyright 2010 Viable Herbal Solutions. All rights res