Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 16:39:28 GMT
Connection: close

Fake HIV kit not in Uganda Tuesday, April 24, 2012 | Last Updated 5:49 PM RSS | Advertise | Subscribe | Feedback | Archive | About US | e-Paper Home National World Sport Business Entertainment Health Education Multimedia Supplements Life Style e-Paper Cartoon Blogs Letter Our Products Opinion Services Regionals Towns Agribusiness Market Latest Pakasa Stock Exchange Celebrities & Showbiz Gossip Music & Film TV & Radio Environment Health & Fitness Photo Audio Video Jobs Notices Tenders Family Fashion & Beauty Relationships & Dating youngsters lifestyle Business Politics Sport Supplements Notices Tenders Loading Health Fake HIV kit not in Uganda Publish Date: Jan 11, 2012 Tweet Share By Francis Kagolo The health ministry has said that Bioline, the rapid test kit for HIV/AIDS which has been blacklisted by the world health organization (WHO) for being ineffective, is not used in Uganda. Bioline, which is manufactured in South Korea, was used by different countries as a confirmatory test, the second conducted during standard HIV testing, which uses three tests - an initial screening test, a confirmatory test and if there is a discrepancy, a third, tie-breaker test. But WHO last month removed Bioline from its list of approved rapid test kits after it failed quality assurance tests. At the time, over one million kits were in circulation in Kenya, about one-tenth of all the HIV kits available in the country then, according to official estimates by the Kenyan government. The fake kits were also being used in Tanzania among other countries in the region. "What we know so far is that 1,178 test kits have been used in the field, but we have yet to substantiate exactly how many of them were defective," Hadji Mponda, Tanzania's Health Minister, was quoted as saying at a news conference on last week. Although the two governments have since recalled the condemned kits, there are fears the kits could still be in circulation in neighbouring countries. However, the health ministry on Tuesday confirmed it had never approved Bioline test kits nor have they ever been imported into Uganda. Dr. Zainab akol, the manager of the national HIV/AIDS control programme, said the ministry approved only three brands for testing HIV in Uganda. The brands include Ditamine, Statpack, and Unigold. She said some other brands are used in HIV research and not in public health service provision. “We are very tough when it comes to approving equipment used in testing and treating HIV/AIDS,” Akol stated. “The three brands we approved are accurate and can withstand our conditions including low refrigeration.” Akol noted that centralizing the purchase and distribution of medical supplies under the national medical stores (NMS) had also helped to guard against importation of fake drugs and equipment. She was, however, dismayed that Bioline, which initially was among the “most effective rapid testing kits”, could later turn out to be ineffective. Moses Kamabale the NMS General Manager confirmed that Bioline is not used Uganda. Regina Ssali, in-charge Kiswa Health Centre, and a laboratory technician at Case Medicare, a private clinic prominent in HIV testing and treatment, also said they had never heard about the Bioline kits. Tweet | Share | | | | Post Your Comments Max Length
                    500 Characters(With Space) Comments Masaba Gudoi | Corner City you can also read this from daily monitor

The world in mad rush for male circumcision but . . .

Posted  Saturday, February 4  2012 at  00:00
In Summary
Getting the most of it. Now that three studies have shown that circumcising adult heterosexual men is one of the most effective “vaccines” against Aids—reducing the chances of infection by 60 per cent or more—public health experts are struggling to find ways to make the process faster, cheaper and safer.
Uganda marks its 50th anniversary as an independent country in 2012 but excessive celebrations could prove contentious or even divisive. The day of the assembly-line circumcision is drawing closer. 
Now that three studies have shown that circumcising adult heterosexual men is one of the most effective “vaccines” against Aids—reducing the chances of infection by 60 per cent or more—public health experts are struggling to find ways to make the process faster, cheaper and safer. 
The goal is to circumcise 20 million African men by 2015, but only about 600,000 have had the operation thus far. Even a skilled surgeon takes about 15 minutes, most African countries are desperately short of surgeons, and there is no Mohels Without Borders. 
So donors are pinning their hopes on several devices now being tested to speed things up. 
Dr Stefano Bertozzi, director of HIV for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, said it had its eyes on two, named PrePex and the Shang Ring, and was supporting efforts by the World Health Organisation to evaluate them. 
Circumcision is believed to protect heterosexual men because the foreskin has many Langerhans cells, which pick up viruses and “present” them to the immune system—which HIV attacks. Report Abuse 0 0 Kamari Ivan Joel | Kamuli Ditamine,Statpack and Unigold am mostly used by Star EC during their reseach in Kamuli because its one of the supporting partner, However care has to be taken to aviod costs incured and after effects,putting into mind that HIV/AIDs has no assured solution (healness) but it can be prevented. stengthen people to go for HIV/AIDs tests to know their status Report Abuse 0 0 Also In This Section What is Muscular Dystrophy? Kidney transplant programme to be set up in Kampala Safe male circumcision kicks off in Ngora District Health teams get empty kit Security guards donate 65 units of blood Three million Ugandans lack latrines Woes of Tororo hospital Drugs not collected from national stores Water and sanitation project to solve problems in Nakaseke Town Pupils and students learn about HIV/AIDS in a quiz competition. Home | National | World | Sport | Business | Entertainment | Health | Education | Supplements | Life Style | e-Paper Contact Us | Advertisement | Archive Copyright © 2012 Newvision . All rights reserved Designed & Developed by: Sign Up For Our Newsletter NEWS & SPECIAL INSIDE! Follow Us ON Comment USER LOGIN Email-ID Password Not a member yet? Please Change P