
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 13:19:11 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

LB17 Live Probiotic News Home Page | ORDER | Catalogue | Contact Osumex “the natural way to better health” LB17 live probiotics LB17 information LB17 bacteria strains LB17 beneficial effects LB17 compare to other probiotics LB17 bacteria functions Probiotics breaking news LB17 Frequently Asked Questions Pure Antarctic Krill Oil -
	Omega-3 & Astaxanthin (powerful antioxidant) 100% Pure Antarctic Krill Oil Omega-3 EFA Astaxanthin - powerful antioxidant Supplemental Facts Xocai Chocolates high antioxidants diabetic-friendly Flax Hulls - Lignans & Sulforaphane 10-P Urine Analysis Heavy Metals Tests Free Radical Tests Heavy Metals Detox VitaC Plus Strategic Health Markers Energy pH Indicator Free Radicals Inflammation The LB17 probiotics are produced in Southern Japan and totally unaffected by radiation from the Fukushima nuclear plant.  Radiation levels 
at the production facility is checked daily to ensure there is no contamination and the product is safe LB17 "live" Probiotic News Probiotic Supplements Ease Diarrhea and Other Gastrointestinal Disorders Charlotte A. Kenreigh, PharmD; Linda Timm Wagner, PharmD posted 04/17/2006 - Medscape Pharmacist Author: Thomsen M Altern Complement Ther. 2006;12:14-20. The author concludes that the results of clinical studies support the use of probiotics for infective, antibiotic-induced, and travelers' 
diarrhea; vaginal thrush and recurrent cystitis; irritable bowel syndrome; colitis; food allergies; and lactose malabsorption. Probiotics 
may also be useful for the prevention of pouchitis, postoperative infections, and eczema. The author does warn that probiotics should be 
avoided in patients who are sensitive to any component of a probiotic formulation. Additionally, he acknowledges that the labeling of many 
probiotic products is substandard...... more Probiotics Boost Baby's Immune System and Aids in the Prevention and Treatment of Allergic Disease Samuli Rautava and Erika Isolauri Department of Paediatrics, University of Turku, Finland The administration of probiotics, strains of bacteria from the healthy human gut microbiota, have been shown to stimulate anti-inflammatory, 
tolerogenic immune responses,  the lack of which has been implied in the development of atopic disorders. Thus probiotics may prove 
beneficial in the prevention and alleviation of allergic disease....... more Probiotics May Improve Children Health and Fight Disease M.J. Friedrich and S. Gorback MD Department of Medicine Tufts University Boston USA There is evidence that probiotics can induce expression of mucin proteins, the large glycoproteins secreted by epithelial cells in the 
intestinal tract that provide protection from bacteria and viruses, said David Mack, MD, of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, who presented 
evidence for this mechanism at the meeting. He and his colleagues have shown that certain lactobacilli strains can increase the expression 
of MUC3 messenger RNA expression and MUC3 protein translation in cell culture and also inhibit adherence of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli 
to intestinal mucosal cells in culture. They hypothesize that by inducing mucin gene expression, probiotic agents may be able to minimize the 
interaction of other microbes with intestinal mucosal cells and lessen intestinal inflammation. Preliminary data suggest that there are a number of other conditions in children for which probiotics may prove useful, said Johns Hopkins' 
Saavedra. These include inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, such as inflammatory bowel disease and necrotizing enterocolitis. 
Treatment of hypercholesterolemia also has been reported, but there have been no major studies. And if immunoenhancing effects can be 
definitively demonstrated in humans, he said, probiotics could be used to reduce vaccine doses........ more The FIRST STEP to a Strong Immune System Dr Debby Hansen - Director of The Edison Institute of Nutrition, Federickton, New Brunswick, Canada The gastrointestional (GI) tract is the major center of immune response.  Gut Associated lymphoid Tissue (GALT) is the largest lymphoid organ 
in the body.  The small intestine contains 80% of the immune-producing cells in the body.  There are 400-500 indigenous species of micro flora 
in the large intestine, many of which are unculturable and therefore virtually unknown.  There are 100,000 billion viable bacteria in the GI 
tract.  Bacteria should compose 33% to 50% of fecal matter.  Normal bowel flora is essential to the immune system, starting from birth.  Two 
of the most studied beneficial bacteria are strains of Lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria........ more Inflammatory Bowel Disease - Live probiotics protect intestinal epithelial cells from the effects of infection 
with enteroinvasive Escherichia coli (EIEC) Resta-Lenert S, Barrett KE Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of California-San Diego, UCSD Medical Center 8414, 
200 West Arbor Drive, San Diego, CA 92103, USA. srestalenert@ucsd.edu Conclusions - Live ST/LA interact with intestinal epithelial cells to protect them from the deleterious effect of EIEC via mechanisms that 
include, but are not limited to, interference with pathogen adhesion and invasion. Probiotics likely also enhance the barrier 
function of naive epithelial cells not exposed to any pathogen......... more Probiotics given to pregnant and lactating mothers reduced atopic eczema during the first two years of their 
child's life Luise Kalbe, PhD., Brigitte Reusens, PhD.,  and Professor Claude Remacle, Cellular Biology Laboratory, University de Louvain, Belgium Not only are probiotics therefore promising functional foods for pregnant women and infants, but they can be considered for prophylactic as 
well as therapeutic uses.  Prophylactic use of probiotics for women during the last trimester of pregnancy and through childbirth, for 
instance, permanently colonised the gastrointestinal tracts of their infants.  It is not yet known whether the immune-boosting properties of 
these probiotics require periodic pulse dosage or continuous administration......... more Bacteria hope for Asthma Lancet as reported The Age, Melbourne, Australia - Saturday, April 7, 2001 Treating pregnant women with "good bacteria" will pevent thousands of children contracting asthma by strengthening the baby's fledgling 
immune system, a new study shows.......... more Antifungal Effect of Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB) L. Vanne, T. Kleemola, A. Haikara - VTT Biotechnology Results - All the four LAB strains studied using the indirect impedimetric method were able to delay or even inhibit the growth of 
A. ochraceus and P. verruosum during the 90-hour monitoring period.  The most effective strains L. plantarum E76 and L. amylovorus E576, were 
able to inhibit the growth of all 14  fungal strains tested.  The results achieved in this study show clearly 
that the growth of toxigenic storage fungi can be restricted by LAB in vitro......... more Probiotics help in nasal congestion American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Vol. 77, No. 2, 517-520 - February 2003 Conclusions - The results indicate that regular intake of probiotics can reduce PPB in the upper respiratory tract. The results also indicate 
a linkage of the lymphoid tissue between the gut and the upper respiratory tract......... more Study shows secret to gas-free beans Reuters - Yahoo News - Tuesday April 25, 2006 When researchers fermented black beans with the two bacteria (L. plantarum and L. casei ), they found it decreased the soluble 
fiber content by more than 60 percent and lowered levels of raffinose, a compound known to cause gas, by 88 percent......... more Comments from healthcare professionals who have used LB17: UK Leading London Consultant Medical Herbalist Deborah Grant highly recommends this probiotic and uses it extensively in 
her practice at The Hale Clinic in Central London. It is by far the most superior probiotic she has discovered and works extremely well to 
rebalance the gut flora and improve patients' digestion and general health. Canada "... I have been using different probiotic blends over the years.  The best I found by far is LB17.  The ... more 
strands of different friendly bateria, the better the probiotic.  It has been my experience that LB17 covers every area of body fluids from 
the sinuses to the reproductive organs which give LB17 a great advantage over any other probiotic.  My patients love the small size of the 
capsules and I have used LB17 with great success on open wounds and stubborn acne by ...  applying ... directly to the wound. ... be happy to recommend LB17 to any health practitioner.".. Dr. A.W. Martin DC, Ph.D., RNCP, D.N.M. (November 2007) Dr Martin is a practising nutritionist in Sudbury Ontario with a PhD in nutrition. United Kingdom "I am a Holistic Therapy Practitioner in the UK  ....... Finally, I want to make it clear that I am extremely pleased with the benefits that this product LB17 provides for myself and my clients and 
friends who all wish to purchase more of it..." Ms Helen Rushforth B.A.(Hons), M.A., Flintshire, North Wales, UK (May 2008) Ms Helen Rushforth is a practising healthcare professional in North Wales, UK Greece Some probiotics work and some do not!  LB17 is a probiotic that definitely works.  It brings equilibrium to the gut 
flora and enhances immunity.  As a nutritional therapist, I recommend LB 17 to all my clients for their gut health with excellent results..... Ms Katherine Ventouris Nutritional Therapist practising in Athens, Greece Below is an image of a box of LB17 live probiotic and vegetable soft gel capsule Each box contains 60 capsules LB17 live probiotic biomass LB17 is now also available in paste form without capsules for those who do not or cannot take capsules - see below Above is a 50gm bottle of LB17 biomass.  Next pic is image of the biomass in bulk paste form The above information is provided for general educational purposes only. It is not intended to replace competent health care advice received 
from a knowledgeable healthcare professional. You are urged to seek healthcare advice for the treatment of any illness or disease. Health Canada and the FDA (USA) have not evaluated these statements. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any 
disease. Distributors - Nth America | Sth America | Asia | Europe | Africa | Oceania (tests) | Oceania (others) | Contact Osumex Copyright 2001