
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 20:36:20 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: 9bdbaf0f5d16f23e6c7824af9b8cbb1f
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 20:36:20 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Organic Honey Organic Food Organic Stores Organic Oils Benefits of Food Nutrition Facts Health Insurance Home Remedies Latest Items I Say Organic Conflicting Information on Benefits of Foods – Which is Correct? Foods for Healing Wounds Hazards of Medical Negligence Minerals in Body Boron Calcium Copper Iodine Iron Magnesium Manganese Phosphorus Potassium Silicon Zinc Vitamins Other Browse Facts Organic Facts Home Organic Food Organic Animal Products Organic Beverages Organic Oils Organic Vegetables Organic Products Organic Stores Health Benefits Nutrition Facts Organic Honey Honey Bee Infestation Tweet The term "Infestation" is generally used in the context of pests or parasites on crops, livestock and humans and honey bees are far from being pests of any kind. Still, Honey Bee Infestation is a genuine problem experienced by many countries, particularly the warm ones. Some of you might not be happy with the use of this word "Infestation" for honey bees since they do neither feed on our crops or on our livestock or on us. Then why treat them as pests and what do we mean by Honey Bee Infestation? The answer follows; Read more... Honey Bee Extermination Tweet The very term "Honey Bee Extermination" may sound like butchering a helpful friend who is restlessly busy in keeping the Earth green, the plants laden with fruits , storing the liquid gold "Honey" in their hives and seldom did any harm to anybody knowingly. The whole race of honey bees seems so selfless that one may wonder why on Earth anyone would want to exterminate the honey bees. What harm did they do to us humans? Will not it have very damaging effects on the environment and the greenery around us? Will not it be an injustice against the noble task of pollination that these honey bees do restlessly, and had been doing for millions of years? Where from we will get that golden, sweet honey had honey bees been not there? Hundreds such question may arise when it comes to honey bee extermination. We shall try to address and answer as many of them as possible. Read more... Benefits of Organic Honey Tweet Some people have the opinion that all honey available in the market is natural honey obtained from the wild. Others feel that honey production carried out on chemically sprayed farms cannnot get contaminated with the pesticides sprayed on the crops and weeds. Read more... What is Raw Organic Honey? Tweet Raw honey is the honey as obtained from honey bee hives without any heating. The entire process of extraction, settling and straining does not involve any application of heat. Some people also like to refer to comb honey as raw honey. However, the industry refers to comb honey as the honey as it exists in the honey bee hives. Read more... Organic Honey Standards Tweet The standards for organic honey production are much different than those for producing other organic livestock products . Managing honey bees is very difficult and hence the general rules applicable for other livestock cannot be implemented in case of organic honey production. Read more... Health Benefits of Honey and Ginger Tweet The health benefits of honey and ginger in treating respiratory problems are unmatched by any other concoction. Further, honey is an excellent medium for transmitting the benefits of herbs such as ginger to the body. Read more... Health Benefits of Honey Tweet Honey has been used by mankind since the past 2,500 years, all over the world. While the numerous health benefits of honey have made it an important aspect of traditional medicines such as Ayurveda, scientists are also researching the benefits of honey in modern medicine, especially in healing wounds. Known as Honig in German, Miele in Italian, Shahad in Hindi, Miel in French, Miel in Spanish, Mel in Portuguese, мед in Russian, Honing in Dutch, and μελι in Greek, there is hardly any region in the world where honey is not cherished. What makes honey so popular? It is the ease with which it can be consumed. One can eat honey directly, put it on bread like a jam, mix it with juice or any drink instead of sugar, or mix it with warm water , lime juice, cinnamon and other herbs to make a medicine. It is savored by all due to its taste as well as health benefits. Read more... Factors Governing the Benefits of Honey Tweet There are numerous health benefits of honey ; it can be used as an antioxidant, has antimicrobial, antibacterial and antifungal properties, boosts athletic performance, and is a rich source of vitamins and minerals . Milk and honey are used by many due to its skin care benefits. However, the benefits of honey that we get greatly depend on its quality. Honey available in different honey jars are not of same quality and hence do not provide same benefits. Read more... Benefits of Organic Honey Certification Tweet Increasing number of farmers, all over the world, are shifting to organic farming as it provides numerous benefits over conventional farming. Honey bee keepers are also favoring organic honey production as it is considered to have numerous benefits over conventional honey. Read more... Health Benefits of Honey and Milk Tweet The health benefits of honey and milk include skin care and stamina development. This article elaborates the health benefits of milk and honey taken together. For health benefits of honey click here . For health benefits of organic milk click here . Read more... Featured Items Worried About Your Weight? Eat Honey! Cancer? Green Tea may be of some help. Want a healthy heart? Don't miss Magnesium in Your Diet Hair Loss? Coconut Oil is What You Need Is Fish Oil Good for Pregnant Women? Join and Discuss - Natural Food Group on Facebook Popular Health Benefits of Coconut Oil Health Benefits of Fish Oil Health Benefits of Lavender Essential Oil Health Benefits of Honey Benefits of Honey in Weight Loss Health Benefits of Clove Oil Latest Stuff I Say Organic Conflicting Information on Benefits of Foods – Which is Correct? Foods for Healing Wounds Hazards of Medical Negligence What are Superfoods Home | About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Advertise Copyright © 2011 --- RuralTech Services. Information on this website is for education purpose onl