
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 22 Feb 2012 15:27:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Evaluating the Effects of Bariatric Surgery on Sleep - SCP FSI Centers & Programs Research Centers Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law Center for International Security and Cooperation Center on Food Security and the Environment Stanford Health Policy The Europe Center Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center Research Programs Program on Energy and Sustainable Development Rural Education Action Program Educational Programs Stanford Program on International and Cross-Cultural Education Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies Ford Dorsey Program in International Policy Studies Affiliated Programs Center for Innovation in Global Health Research Projects By topic By region Publications People Events Upcoming Recent Podcasts & video News Recent Archive About SCP About the program Annual report Map & directions Contact us About FSI Support FSI Quick Links ... East Asia Library's Chinese Language Collection Community ... Mailing List Events Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Evaluating the Effects of Bariatric Surgery on Sleep CHP/PCOR Research in Progress Seminar Date and Time April 23, 2008 1:30 PM - 3:00 PM Availability Open to the public No RSVP required Speakers Dena M. Bravata - Stanford University Jon-Erik Holty Obesity is a risk factor for obstructive sleep apnea and central hypoventilation syndromes.  Increasingly, bariatric surgery is being popularized as a means of weight loss and, to a lesser degree, as a novel therapeutic intervention for sleep apnea.  In this talk, we present the preliminary results of a cohort of 220 patients undergoing bariatric surgery at California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco followed for up to 18 months. The primary sleep outcome for this cohort is their daytime sleepiness as measured by the Etworth Sleepiness Scale.  We evaluate changes of weight, quality of life, and other predictors on sleepiness.  We also present preliminary results from our systematic review of 116 studies of bariatric surgery on sleep apnea, including individual level patient data for 80 patients from 14 studies from which we evaluated specific demographic and clinical predictors of improvement in sleep apnea after surgery.  We hope that our results may inform the current guidelines for preoperative evaluations of potential bariatric recipients and to identify those patients at greatest of failing to improve their sleep apnea after surgery so that targeted interventions may be developed for these individuals. Location Health Research & Policy Building (Redwood Building), Room T138-B 259 Campus Drive Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305 » Directions/Map FSI Contact Amber Hsiao Parent Research Projects Stanford Health Policy Research in Progress Seminars CHP/PCOR Series Topics: Obesity Search SCP Events of interest Rise of the Market and the Reach of the State Jean C. Oi, Scott Rozelle The Last Days of Old Beijing: Life in the Vanishing Backstreets of a City Transformed Michael Meyer support • map & directions • contact • RSS/XML feeds | Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies • Encina Hall • 616 Serra St • Stanford, CA 94305-6055 Te