Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=none

Laetrile quotes Laetrile quotes [back] Laetrile "It has been condemned as a worthless quack remedy by others because they
were genuinely misinformed or because they were BAREFACED AND DELIBERATE LIARS." Dr Richards & Frank Hourigan. Doctors on Laetrile Medical Fascism Fraud Suppression The Network of Evil See cancer quotes: Banners Budwig diet Escharotics General Hamer Chemo Oxygen therapy Ralph Moss Terms Vitamin C Zapper Doctors on Laetrile After more than twenty years of such specialized work, I have found the 
nontoxic Nitrilosides—that is, Laetrile—far superior to any other known cancer 
treatment or preventative. In my opinion it is the only existing possibility for 
the ultimate control of cancer.---- Dr. Nieper [ World Without Cancer by Edward Griffin] So, here is a bureau of the Federal Government which, a short time before, 
had said that the reason Laetrile did not work was because it did not release 
hydrogen cyanide in the presence of cancer cells. Now, when they find that it 
does, they say that it is toxic. When offered an opportunity to present evidence 
of Laetrile's toxicity in Federal Court, they admitted that they had none. Laetrile and the Life Saving Substance Called 
Cyanide by Philip Binzel, Jr., M.D. "I write what I see," he said repeatedly. "Laetrile is not a cure for cancer, 
but a good palliative drug." REMEMBERING 
DR. SUGIURA by Ralph Moss Certainly one story that needs 
to be told is that of Dr. Kanematsu Sugiura . In 1975, Dr. Sugiura was, and had 
been for some years, one of the most respected cancer research scientists at 
Sloan-Kettering. In working with cancerous mice, Dr. Sugiura found that, when he 
used Laetrile on these mice, seventy-seven per cent of them did not develop a 
spread of their disease (metastatic carcinoma). He repeated this study over and 
over for two years. The results were always the same. Dr. Sugiura took his 
findings to his superiors at Sloan-Kettering, but his study was never published. 
Instead, Sloan-Kettering published the results of someone else who claimed that 
he had used Dr. Sugiura's protocol. This "someone else's" study showed that 
there were no beneficial effects from the use of Laetrile. Dr. Sugiura 
complained. He was fired. A book was written about all of this entitled The 
Anatomy of A Cover-up. This book has all the actual results of Dr. Sugiura's 
work. These results do, indeed, show the benefit of Laetrile. Dr. Sugiura stated 
in this book, "It is still my belief that Amygdalin cures metastases." Amygdalin 
is, of course, the scientific name for Laetrile. ALIVE AND WELL by Philip E. Binzel, Jr., M.D. "The anti-cancer effect of amygdalin was demonstrated in Mexico by
government sponsored reserach under Dr. Mario Soto De Leon and its use is legal.  Dr
Soto was the first medical director of the Cydel Clinic in Tijuana (taken over by Dr Manner ) .It is very important that it be prepared and administred correctly in sufficient
dosage or it will not be effective.  The trial performed at the Mayo Clinic in the
early 80's involved the use of the racemic mixture rather than the levo-rotary form and
thus was only 10% of the strength required.  In spite of this, towards the end of the
experiment, the patients began to show improvement, but it was discontinued and declared
ineffectual."-- Dr Robert Willner , M.D. I ... have specialized in oncology [the study of tumors] for the past 
eighteen years. For the same number of years I have been using 
Laetrile—amygdalin in the treatment of my cancer patients. During this eighteen 
year period I have treated a total of over five hundred patients with 
Laetrile—amygdalin by various routes of administration, including the oral and 
the I.V. The majority of my patients receiving Laetrile—amygdalin have been in a 
terminal state when treatment with this material commenced.  It is my carefully 
considered clinical judgment, as a practicing oncologist and researcher in this 
field, that I have obtained most significant and encouraging results with the 
use of Laetrile—amygdalin in the treatment of terminal cancer patients, and that 
these results are comparable or superior to the results I have obtained with the 
use of the more toxic standard cytotoxic agents.--- Navarro, 
M.D. , Manuel "Amygdalin (laetrile) is another key component for keeping cancer from
growing and should be considered a standard, entirely safe treatment for all cancer
patients."---- Dr. Atkins.,M.D. "Laetrile is most assuredly a very potent anti-cancer factor but requires 
stringent methods of use in order to succeed. Amateurs invariably fail. High 
sounding U.S. pronouncements that ‘laetrile’ is toxic and ineffective are 
fraudulent and calculated to deceive. It will become again one of the major 
weapons in the cancer therapy armamentarium."— Dr Richards & Frank Hourigan. ""You get cats in with high fevers, 105-108 degrees.  There is
nothing you can give them that will bring down that high a fever--except
laetrile."--- Dr Kearns, DVM. (Dr Kearns uses 50mg of laetrile orally until the leukemia is under control.) Administered to cancer patients, Laetrile has proven to be quite free from 
any harmful side-effects, and I would say that no anti-cancer drug could make a 
cancerous patient improve fAster than Laetrile. It goes without saying that 
Laetrile controls cancer and is quite effective wherever it is located. --- Shigeaki 
Sakai, a prominent physician in Tokyo. [ World Without Cancer by Edward Griffin] In Italy there is Professor Etore Guidetti, M.D., of the University of 
Turin Medical School. Dr. Guidetti spoke before the Conference of the 
International Union Against Cancer held in Brazil in 1954 and revealed how his 
use of Laetrile in terminal cancer patients had caused the destruction of a wide 
variety of tumors including those of the uterus, cervix, rectum, and breast. “In 
some cases,” he said, “one has been able to observe a group of fulminating and 
cauliflower-like neoplastic masses resolved very rapidly” He reported that, 
after giving Laetrile to patients with lung cancer, he had been “able to 
observe, with the aid of radiography, a regression of the neoplasm or the 
metastases.” [ World Without Cancer by Edward Griffin] The palliative action [improving the comfort and well-being of the patient] 
is in about 60% of the cases. Frequently, enough to be significant, I see arrest 
of the disease or even regression in some 15% of the very advanced cases.  
--- Ernesto Contreras , M.D. "The cyano group of vitamin B-12 (cyano-cobal-amin) is more labile and 
potentially more harmful than the cyano group found in Laetrile. Yet we know how 
safe and essential vitamin B-12 is." - Dr. R.A. Passwater , testimony, FDA docket 
# 77N-0048. "When Dr. Manner reported on the total remission of breast 
cancer in lab animals (Using 'Laetrile in conjunction with vitamins and 
enzymes')..., ACS President, Ben Byrd, criticised (him) for making his 
announcement in public, and said such announcements should be made only in a 
proper scientific forum." (Laetrile)"may be useful in sickle cell anemia...(Laetrile) 
used in animals with tumors show: a decrease in lung metastases; slower tumor 
growth; and pain relief." - Lloyd Old, MD, vice president, Sloan-Kettering 
Institute for Cancer Research, at FDA 7-2-1974. As an explosive internal issue, the laetrile affair has almost attained the 
order of magnitude of the Vietnam conflict.  I still do not see how some of the 
exponents of official American cancer medicine, and certain bureaucracies in 
Washington, are going to emerge from this affair with clean hands.  The effect 
of this bitter almond substance is not strong, and can be observed only if the 
defense mechanisms are in operation.  In any event, it can and was clearly 
proven both clinically and experimentally, with positive results, at both the 
famous Sloan-Kettering Institute in New York, and at the Pasteur Institute in 
Paris.  An enormous suppression story was leaked to the press by a member of the 
New York institute.  A rather mysterious "testing" in five clinics, including 
the famous Mayo Clinic, led to the strong suspicion that certain oral (not 
intravenous) doses of laetrile were tested after having been previously and 
intentionally "contaminated" at the National Cancer Institute in Washington, 
with a certain highly poisonous cyano urea combination.  Officially, a 
"purification" was admitted. Dr. Hans A. 
Nieper of Germany has this to say about B–17 Medical Fascism By 1978, 70,000 US cancer patients had taken Laetrile for cancer treatment, and many of those had gone to Tijuana to receive it. The 
turning point for the clinics came with passage of the North American 
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which facilitated greater cooperation 
among the antifraud authorities of Canada, the United States, and 
Mexico. In 1994, the tripartite members of NAFTA formed the 
Mexico-United States-Canada Health Fraud Work Group, or MUCH, whose 
brief is to strengthen the 3 countries’ ability to prevent 
cross-border health fraud. Under the auspices of MUCH and its 
members, regulatory crackdowns began in earnest early in 2001. Tijuana Cancer Clinics in the Post-NAFTA Era by Ralph W. Moss, PhD (In)"1970, the Pennsylvania Health Dept., swooped down on 
a meeting...after the movie Laetrile,...was shown.  The film was 
confiscated and the association president arrested." - Vitamin B-17--Forbidden Weapon against Cancer: The 
Fight for Laetrile by Culbert, Michael L. "...In July 1974 About 15 agents (of Cal. Food and Drug) arrested me on the 
charge of selling Laetrile and other substances in the diagnosis, cure and 
alleviation of cancer. In Citrus Municipal Court, West Covina, on Feb 3, 1975, 
Judge Sam Cianchetti declared this statute unconstitutional. On Oct. 1974, I 
received a phone call from ...police at 1 (AM, Saturday morning) and he told me 
that my office was broken into. I went down to my office ...and 2 agents 
arrest(ed) me on a felony charge - conspiracy ...The law states that before you 
are even arrested, they must give you a hearing (Cal. Health Code 1707.4) 
(Another) judge denied this motion for a ...hearing and he gave no reason." - Dr. James Privitera; Roswell Park Memorial Institute,; Scripps Clinic; "The 
Nutritional Battle." "...there is no basis for the use of Laetrile in man based 
on data derived from experiments on animals.": - Dr. Jesse Steinfeld, Surgeon 
General, US Public Health Service. "Dr. (Howard H. )Beard 'was ...charged with...mail 
fraud...rendering fake and medically worthless cancer reports...Postal 
Investigators satisfied themselves the reports were willfully falsified...' On 
Oct. 30, 1967, Dr. Beard was sentenced in US Federal Court, Ft. Worth, Texas, 
'to...mail fraud...He alleged he could detect the presence of cancer in urine in 
95% of all tests made." - FDA Papers, 1967-1968 (in ACS, Unproven Methods 
of Cancer Management, 1967). "Not that 
there are not real quacks in the field of cancer... But ...no legitimate 
MD...with a thriving practice and after years of study and faithful service 
would give all that up to become a quack and subject himself and his family to 
Hell..." - John Richardson , MD, Laetrile Case Histories. "Federal, state, and local police raided Dr. (John) Richardson's Clinic,...beat up a(n) aide, manhandled a nurse, and dragged the 
business manager off in handcuffs." "Important Elements of FDA Policy: Encourage local medical 
licensing authorities to investigate and take appropriate action to deal with 
the use of Laetrile by physicians in their practice." - FDA Division of 
Federal-State Relations Director, 1974. "The data provided by the McNaughton Foundation certainly 
indicates some activity (of Laetrile) in animal tumor systems.: - Dr. Carl 
Baker, Director, NCI 1970-1972. "The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic ACT,...defines any article 
'intended for use in the diagnosis, ...treatment, or prevention of disease' as a 
'drug'...Water...to an individual dying of thirst could ...be called a 'drug." - Michael Culbert , Freedom From Cancer. "..The woman...had been relieved of her cancer by 
Laetrile.....In the hospital they would not inject Laetrile as it was illegal.  
She died.  This so incensed the editors of the Santa Ana Register (Dean 
and Martinez) that they wrote ("Laetrile Story") a series of articles on cancer 
and the true story for the first time was sent by UPI to (almost) every country 
in the world."          - Howard H. Beard , ScD, PhD, Yale U. The Anthrone 
Test. "Dr. (Donald R.) Cole (formerly of Sloan-Kettering and St. 
Vincent's Hospital in New York) was charged with three counts: giving false hope 
to the terminally ill, using experimental drugs illegally, and practicing 
medicine in an unlawful and dishonest manner....The illegal drug charge was 
defined as the use of vitamins, enzymes, and Laetrile. ...Dr. Cole administered 
Laetrile at the request of patients in the legally prescribed manner with a 
signed affidavit....An oncologist from Rosewell Park (Memorial Institute) who 
was brought in by the hearing panel...could not substantiate a single case 
of incompetence or negligence. ...Dr. Cole's license was revoked." - CCS, 
Cancer Control Journal, January 1978. "...The ...experts of the FDA have declared Laetrile to be 
worthless...quackery and fraud...These experts are the professional descendants 
of experts...confident that mental illness should be cured by drilling holes in 
the skull, the better to let the demons out. ...This is the Orwellian fashion in 
which the medical establishment throws its weight around...." - James 
Kilpatrick, Washington Star, 1976. (In)" 1970, in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania....Bruce 
Butt...convened a meeting at which he showed...Nature's Answer to Cancer.  
The film was made by the International Association of Cancer  Victims and 
Friends (IACVF)....(The) attorney...defending Mr. Butt (said):  Mr. Butt is 
criminally charged with 'unlawfully procuring and showing the film, Nature's 
Answer to Cancer, which the state of Pennsylvania claims 'constitutes 
dissemination of false or misleading advertisement, concerning the efficacy of 
Laetrile , as a cure or treatment for cancer'. (And) this constitutes a 
misbranding of a drug, ...although ...all parties ("stipulate") that no drug 
("Laetrile") was sold or offered for sale!  Present at the preliminary hearing 
were...USDHEW, and the FTC,...and FDA... Again when the film was advertised for 
showing in a public theater in San Jose, the owner was threatened by the DA's 
office with a criminal charge, arrest, and seizure of the film." - IACVF, 
Cancer News Journal, 1964. "...Medical mankind in particular, were supposed to be 
waiting for the advent of some new scientific discovery concerning the nature of 
cancer... ...The physical martyrdom was lacking; but there are, as I can testify 
from experience, many more ways than one of burning a scientific man at the 
stake." - John Beard . D.Sc., The Enzyme Treatment of Cancer and its 
Scientific Basis. c. 1911 AD. "Dr. Helen Calvin ...spearheaded ...Indiana to approve Laetrile, and then she 
used the Laetrile and metabolic program ...until the FDA arbitrarily and 
illegally held up her Laetrile shipments ...patients started dying ...When four 
of them had died, Dr. Calvin ended her own life." - Arlin Brown , Cancer Victory Bulletin, Oct. 
1978. "Dr. Emory Thurston, PhD, ScD, (lecturer, College of 
Pharmacy, USC; member APA (American Pharmaceutical Assoc.), Executive Secretary 
of Nutritional Research (had) ...inspectors from the Calif. Food and Drug office 
armed with a search warrant, (who) raided his business office.  They confiscated 
several bottles of Laetrile...and every piece of literature that contained the 
word 'cancer'.  (They) serve(d) a warrant for the arrest of Dr. Thurston on the 
charge of selling Laetrile and practicing medicine without a license.  He was 
taken to county jail..." International Association of Cancer Friends and 
Victims, Cancer News Journal, 1973. (MD) "Certificate...of John A. Richardson...is revoked." - California Board of Medical Quality Assurance, 1975. "..Dr. Krebs...is facing the possibility of a jail sentence 
stemming from violation of a 1977 court order not to speak publicly about 
Laetrile" - Voice of Medical Freedom, April 1981. "Dr. Ernest J. Krebs, Jr., (and his secretary) ...began 
serving a six-month prison term in May (1983) in the San Francisco County Jail.  
(They) were found guilty of continuing to promote the merits of Laetrile in 
cancer therapy in violation of terms of probation they had originally secured 
following their 1973 conviction." - Choice, spring 1983. "In 1977, when the Laetrile bill was first introduced to 
the North Dakota Legislature, I was the only MD to testify for it...After that, 
my successful tenure...was ended and I was called before the State Medical 
Examiners Board in ND, for using vitamins and Laetrile. ...I travelled...to 
work...with Dr. Davis, Dr. Cole, and Dr. Manner ...When I returned...I was 
refused re-instatement to the medical staff...We are being investigated by the 
(state) attorney general's office because our methods are not 'usual and 
customary'." "After presenting a rather effective lecture on cancerthe windshield was
shot out of my car on the road back to San Francisco. The next night the glass window in
the tail gate was shot out (300 miles removed from the first shooting). The police said,
'maybe someone is trying to tell you something'.  The late Arthur Harris, M.D. was
threatened by two men with assassination if he continued to use laetrile. Since that time
we have de-centralised the work so that, if any two of us are shot out of the saddle, it
will have only a slight negative effect on the program."--- Dr. Krebs "...testifying for Dr. Privitera...To these 19 cancer 
victims, the enforcement of (California) Health and Safety Code Sect. 1701.1, 
the denial of them medical treatment, albeit unorthodox, albeit unapproved by a 
state agency, must surely take on a Kafka-esque, a nightmare quality.  No 
demonstrated public anger, no compelling interest of the state warrants an 
Orwellian intrusion into the most private of zones of privacy." - California 
Supreme Court Chief Justice, Rose Bird, dissenting opinion. "In 1964 (we) conduct(ed) an intensive investigation of 
Laetrile...conclud(ing) that there was no justification for making (it) 
illegal...Yet, 16 years after... , doctors are still being jailed for (it). Dr. James Privitera; ,... was recently released from 55 days...much of it doing hard 
labor...on a road gang...If he were solely interested in making money, as he 
points out, there is a great deal more to be made from traditional cancer 
treatments, than by use of Laetrile." - Santa Ana, The Register, April 
13, 1980. "I had to stand three expensive trials in California courts, where in all 
three actions against me, the charges were dismissed. Then I had to stand an 
even longer and more expensive trial in Federal Court in San Diego, where I was 
convicted of 'conspiring to smuggle Laetrile' and was fined $30,000. ... Cal. 
then revoked my license." - John Richardson , MD. Fraud "The (Laetrile) efficacy tests...clinically in humans..(by) 
the US NCI...were obviously conducted so that a negative result could be 
formulated.  The limited number and types of human cancer cases selected...the 
omission of necessary additional measures ('e.g dietary'), the far too short 
observation periods, and the undefined chemical properties of the (Laetrile)... 
all contributed to devaluation of...conclusions." "... The cancer statutes (are) discriminatory against the 
cancer patient.... No other disease is so restricted by politics....  It is also 
discriminatory against the Negro because Laetrile helps sickle cell anemia.... 
It is discriminatory against the poor because the poor can't afford to go to 
Mexico or Germany (for therapies outlawed in the US)..." "The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic ACT,...defines any article 
'intended for use in the diagnosis, ...treatment, or prevention of disease' as a 
'drug'...Water...to an individual dying of thirst could ...be called a 'drug." - Michael Culbert , Freedom From Cancer. "The (MSKCC) Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center report 
on amygdalin, or Laetrile(:)  It is incomplete because at least half a dozen 
experiments with amygdalin performed at the (MSKCC) between 1972 and 1976 have 
been omitted from the report.  (These,) the positive experiments (showing 
effectivity against cancer) with amygdalin, carried out by veteran researcher 
Kanematsu Sugiura appear to be valid and are not successfully challenged by the 
report.  (In contrast,) there are numerous errors in many of these (reported) 
experiments which allegedly prove amygdalin's ineffectiveness as a palliative or 
cure for cancer." - Second Opinion, Special Report: Laetrile at Sloan 
Kettering, 1977, published January 1978. According to Richard Walters, Dr. James Cason of the University of California,
Berkeley, analyzed the compound used in the Mayo Clinic study using infrared
spectrophotometry and determined that it did not contain amygdalin at all. The California Medical Association (CMA) evaluated the records of some 44 
patients who received Laetrile therapy for cancer at a number of California 
hospitals. The review was irrefutably slapdash (Krebs had refused to cooperate 
with the CMA in a more controlled study since the CMA would not agree to let a 
Laetrile friend direct the study), inasmuch as these records, never intended for 
a study of any kind, were deficient in numerous respects. Patients were widely 
diverse, were treated with various therapies, including Laetrile, and the extent 
or even the reality of their disease poorly defined in many cases. They were 
given, by today's standards, nearly negligible doses of Laetrile. (In each case, 
Dr. Burk says, less Laetrile was given during the entire course of treatment 
than is given in a single injection today.) Yet the conclusion of the CMA, 
circulated without supporting data, was that Laetrile had now been thoroughly 
tested and that "no satisfactory evidence has been produced to indicate any 
significant cytotoxic effect of Laetrile on the cancer cell." The authors of these conclusions 
state also that some six pathologists who examined tissues of Laetrile-treated 
patients were of the "unanimous opinion" that "in no instance could any 
recognizable effect of a chemotherapeutic agent be observed in the histology of 
these various neoplasms." This was a witting lie, for when the raw data was, 
perhaps un wittingly, affixed to a reissue of the report in 1963 there was 
evidence that some of these pathologists had reported on a number of possible, 
amygdalin-related chemotherapeutic effects, e.g. "…hemorrhagic necrosis of tumor 
is extensive….an interpretation of chemotherapeutic effect might be 
entertained…." (This evidence may be found in Appendix Three of "Report by 
Cancer Advisory Council on Treatment of Cancer with Beta-Cyanogenic Glucosides 
['Laetrile’].") Laetrile: The Goddamned-Contraband-Apricot Connection . It may not be the "magic bullet" but it scares the hell out of the American 
Cancer Society by David M. Rorvik "My analyses and conclusions differ diametrically from those of the Southern 
Research Institute/National Cancer Institute report wherein it is concluded that 
amygdalin 'does not possess activity in the Lewis lung carcinoma system.'…. My 
analysis of the data is that it is overwhelmingly positive." — Dean Burk , while serving as Chief of the 
Cytochemistry Division of the National Cancer Institute, March 22, 1974, letter 
to Dr. Seymour Perry, Deputy Director, NCI Division of Cancer Treatment. A control for cancer is known, and it comes from nature. But it is not widely 
available to the public, because it cannot be patented, and therefore is not 
commercially attractive to the pharmaceutical industry. Here’s what happened. They began a series of tests on Laetrile and they 
turned it over to their top laboratory technician Dr. Kanematsu Sugiura, a 
Japanese fellow, he was sort of at the end of his career. He was very well 
known, held at high esteem by all of his associates. He was mr laboratory test. 
Whatever Sugiura said, went, for everybody, so they gave it to Sugiura. Sugiura 
ran his tests and this was his report. He came to five conclusions. Fist of all, 
he said, it improved the general health of the mice that he was using. Secondly 
it appeared to relieve their pain. Thirdly it inhibited the growth of tumors. 
Fourth it stopped the spread of tumors.. and five it acted as a cancer 
prevention. That was his official finding. And at the end of this report, this 
is a quote ‘ Dr has never observed complete regression of these tumors in all 
his cosmic experience with other chemotherapeutic agents’ end quote. Congressman John Kelsey used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain a copy 
of the minutes of the board of directors of Sloan Kettering dated July 2nd 1974. 
And from the minutes it said quote ‘Sloan Kettering is not enthusiastic about 
studying Amygdalin, but would like to study cyanide releasing drugs.’ end quote. 
Now if you understand that sentence you understand everything that I’m talking 
to you about today. Rockefeller had become very 
influential in the pharmaceutical industry first in the United States and now 
around the world, but has chosen to remain pretty much behind the scenes. They 
know that it wouldn’t look good to have the Rockefeller name popping up under 
all branches of industry. It’s bad enough, they feel, that they’re so well 
identified with the oil industry. How much worse it would be if they were also 
identified as being a dominant factor pharmaceutical industry. Almost over night all of the major universities, which we now consider to be 
major universities in the field of medicine, received large grants from these 
sources and also accepted 1, 2, or 3 of these people that I mentioned on their 
board of directors, and the schools literally were taken over by the financial 
interests that put up the money . The Science and Politics of Cancer A 
discourse by G. Edward Griffin "The oral (Laetrile) had been 'toxified' by adding cyano-urea 
in the NCI...(NCI's) Mayo (Clinic) dismissed well responding patients to discard 
them from statistical evaluation...This kind of fraud which I expressed...and 
which was openly published...has...not resulted in any denial." - Hans Nieper , 
MD, President, International Academy of Preventive Medicine; Director, German 
Society for Medical Tumor Treatment; author of over 200 articles, listed in 
Who's Who of World Science, and many other credentials. "The slight variations in extracting procedure cause many of 
the amygdalin (Vitamin B-17, Laetrile) molecules to change to a form unknown to 
nature(:) isomers...There are ...purveyors who label their 'iso-amygdalin' 
products 'amygdalin' contrary to all of the recognized specs...For commercial or 
political purposes, they certainly cannot justify such a fallacy...This 
scientific heresy and commercial fraud...(is) tremendously reducing the 
effectiveness of amygdalin therapy. ...To mislabel iso-amygdalin as amygdalin is 
scientifically, medically, and morally indefensible." - Dr. Ernst T. Krebs, Jr . 
discoverer of vitamins B-15 and B-17. Suppression conspiracy "When results of the (Laetrile) toxicity tests at Loyola 
(University, Chicago) were complete, (Dr. Harold Manner , Chairman Biology Dept., 
author 50 articles, 5 texts) asked NCI to publish the findings in Journal NCI.  
This the agency refused to do.  Publication in other journals was also denied 
him." - National Health Federation , Bulletin, Nov. 1977. "I and many other Members of Congress have received a large 
volume of mail from individuals...benefited from Laetrile treatments,...who 
believe the Government is party to a conspiracy to suppress an inexpensive, 
non-toxic and effective anti-cancer drug. ...public confidence in our Government 
has not been strengthened by the highly unusual actions of the FDA in first 
advising...that clinical studies with Laetrile could be initiated and then 
terminating this authorization..." (There is a) "deeply held conviction of a large number of 
Americans that they are being forced by their Government to leave the country in 
order to obtain therapy with a drug that is both safe and effective for the 
control of cancer... (A) review should be done by cancer experts who have no 
conflicting interest and who are able to evaluate the evidence objectively...In 
light of the tremendous sums of money that have been spent with relatively 
little productivity..., I find it very surprising that the NCI has not sought on 
its own initiative to do further animal testing with this drug which apparently 
has shown some activity in the tests sponsored by the McNaughton Foundation." - US Congressman L.H. Fountain (in a letter to HEW Secretary), 1971. "The ...Times ...headlined the Assistant US Attorney ...grand jury 
investigation of myself, six months before the grand jury was even selected. 
...Soon after Bantam printed 200,000 copies of our book, ...Times bought the 
serial rights to it. ...After sitting on the serial rights for a suitable 
period, the ...Times ...unctuously begged Bantam to be released from their 
gentlemen's agreement, and the serial market had been destroyed. ...Most 
libraries will not accept a book that has not been reviewed by the ...Times or 
its affiliate..." - John Richardson , MD, Richardson Newsletter, 1979. "A nationwide Harris Poll showed that the public favoured 
the use of Laetrile by a 30% margin. ...In over 250 cases of cancer with which I 
have been associated, all of whom used (Laetrile, vitamin) B-17, not a single 
one had side effects as a result...." - Leon Chaitow, ND, DO, Member, British 
Naturopathic and Osteopathic Association., An End to Cancer? "Every study to date has not found any evidence of efficacy of Laetrile, and 
if there was one shred of evidence from animal or cell systems, I would issue an 
IND." — Dr. Alexander Schmidt, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. "20 Federal agents in 13 undercover cars...arrested 
and...jailed...Robert Bradford (President, Committee for Freedom of Choice in 
Cancer Therapy.)...on leave from Stanford University...and two Mexicans..on 
charges of conspiracy to smuggle (Laetrile)." "Why is it that the US Supreme Court says physicians may 
perform abortions on the ground that the physician - patient relationship is 
inviolable; but that the same physician is not permitted to prescribe Laetrile 
for his patients...but not to destroy life but to save it?  Why are we told that 
a patient has the "right to die with dignity", but may not take Laetrile in an 
attempt to live?" - Alan Stang, American Opinion (from Princeton 
paper, "The Political Implications of Laetrile..."). "In a study of 252 people who attended a Laetrile 
symposium sponsored by the CCS (Cancer Control Society), we found that those 
attending were predominantly white, female, rural, and highly educated." - Gerald E. Markle and James C. Petersen, Professors of Sociology, Western 
Michigan University; editors of Politics, Science, and Cancer; the Laetrile 
Phenomenon. ( Maurice Kowan, MD ) "served three months in jail, paid a 
fine of $3,000, and was forbidden to see a cancer patient...for three years.  
Before sentencing, it had been suggested to Dr. Kowan...to sign a statement 
that...Laetrile...had proved no benefit....He refused any 'deals'..." - Betty 
Lee Morales, "The National Health Federation , Do We Need It?". "The jury had never been allowed to see any 
evidence that Laetrile actually worked.  (Yes Virginia, they can bury medical 
breakthroughs in court this way also.) Dr. Kowan...was...age 70..." 
- G.E. Griffin, Cancer Control Journal, 1977. "...In treating approximately 100 cancer cases, most 
...terminal, (Dr. Kowan) was able to achieve dramatic relief from pain in 
virtually every single case. ...Several patients told...that the fees Dr. Kowan 
charged were ridiculously low.... Dr. Kowan was sentenced (including) 30 days in 
the workhouse..." - David Martin, Staff member, US Senate Internal Security 
Committee, in Cancer News Journal, Jan 1971. " In truth, as 
time has gone on, I have found much evidence to make me believe that the FDA 
had, indeed, done a great many studies on Laetrile. The problem was they 
apparently had found that — when properly used with other vitamins, minerals, 
enzymes and diet — Laetrile could be very beneficial to many cancer patients. 
There was no way the FDA was going to admit this! For more than fifteen years 
they had been saying that Laetrile was of no value. To come out now and say that 
they had been wrong was unthinkable. The fuss and furor that would have come 
from the people of this country would have been tremendous. Congress, rapidly, 
would have been forced to do away with the FDA. To the government, this would 
have been a terrible loss. After all, the "most important" function of any 
government bureaucracy is to perpetuate itself. It is my opinion, and only an 
opinion, that it was easier for the FDA to say that they had done no studies 
than to reveal what their studies had actually shown. It was far less dangerous 
to go through Administrative Hearings than to admit that they were wrong. "---- ALIVE AND WELL by Philip E. Binzel, Jr., M.D. Basically the attitude was best expressed by Lewis Thomas, the president of the
centre, who told my boss, as he would not see me, "I am not going to die on the
barricades for Laetrile . It is not a cure, it is only a palliative, (meaning it relieves
pain and stops the spread of cancer), if it were a cure it might be a different story, but
I am not going to give up my career, to die on the barricades". That's how they
justified it in their own minds. I could not do that, nor could Dr Sugiura, who never
renounced the results of his own studies, despite the fact they put enormous pressure on
him to do so. If you look at the board of 
directors of MSK you will find that the drug industry has a dominant position on that board. One
company in particular, Bristol Myers , which produces between 40 -50% of all the
chemotherapy in the world, and they have top positions at MSK hospital. They are selling their own drugs to that particular hospital but they have written
into the by-laws of the centre that it does not constitute a conflict of interest to sell
their company drugs to the centre. They get around it by not taking a salary. They are not
paid, they are volunteers. Look what happens. You have a man like Benno Schmidt, who was
first head of the president's cancer panel under Nixon, then becomes head of MSK. He then
goes on using the knowledge he gained at MSK to set up his own drug company to make tens
of millions of dollars. ..... The chairman of the board of Bristol Myers, the main company producing anti-cancer
drugs, who also happens to be on the board of MSK, is also on the board of the 
New York Times. Everybody's brother in law is an oncologist, or on the board of 
somebody else's something or other, so it is a money making thing for the 
establishment. A hundred and seven billion, with a B, dollars a year business, 
and we are not going to get rid of it easily . Interview of Dr Ralph Moss, Ph.D. The Network of Evil "Such letters...from the FDA, are, filled with objectively 
demonstrable lies, practiced deceptions and deviousness, red herrings, directed 
misinformation, misdirected information, etc. ...Once FDA-NCI-AMA-ACS...concedes 
that Laetrile anti-tumor efficacy was indeed even once observed...a permanent 
crack in bureaucratic armor has taken place." - Dr. Dean Burke, co-founder, 
National Cancer Institute (NCI), Cyto-chemistry section: open letter July 3, 
1973. "Available scientific evidence does not support claims that Laetrile is 
effective in treating cancer or any other disease. ...The consensus of available 
scientific evidence does not support claims that Laetrile is an effective 
anti-cancer treatment, either in animal studies or in human clinical trials. 
Cancer cells do not seem to be more susceptible to the effects of Laetrile than 
normal cells. The successes claimed by its supporters are based on individual 
(anecdotal) reports, testimonials, and publicity issued by promoters. "-- ACS 
[2008] "Laetrile: Laetrile is
one of the best known alternative cancer treatments. Proponents of Laetrile claim it
selectively destroys cancer cells and relieves pain, although three clinical trials, as
well as studies supported by the National Cancer Institute, have found it to be
ineffective in the cure, improvement, or stabilization of cancer."--- American Cancer
Society (ACS) 1998 http://www.cancer.org/frames.html "On the very day that the NCI announced Laetrile's alleged 
worthlessness..., West Virginia became the 24th state to allow the use of 
Laetrile...In signing the bill into law, Gov. Jay Rockefeller said the study, 
'made no difference at all.' - National Health Federation , July, 1981. "It is not true that the Mafia play any part in the battle for the free and 
unhampered use of Laetrile…if they had it is most probable that Laetrile would 
have been cleared by the FDA years ago." — An drew McNaughton, Chairman of the McNaughton 
Foundation. "Does it make sense that a (Laetrile) smuggler who is 
supposed (by the Medical Establishment - Ed.) to be making millions of dollars 
off of what he is smuggling, would spend five years of his life tryin