Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Medicine for Bleeding Hemorrhoids, Hemroids, Hemorrhoids Medicine Home : Health 
                        Articles : Hemorrhoids : Medicine for Bleeding Hemorrhoids Wart 
                              Remover Hemorrhoids Anal 
                              Fissures Acne 
                              & Pimples Athlete's 
                              Foot Candida Vaginitis Eczema Stretch 
                              Marks Skin 
                              Tag Removal Medicine for Bleeding Hemorrhoids When you have bleeding hemorrhoids, you will naturally be very concerned and you will be looking for a safe and successful medicine for bleeding hemorrhoids. There are many different medicines to choose from but often the first step in the treatment for bleeding hemorrhoids is to understand what is causing this condition.  It may well be your diet or your lifestyle and so any bleeding hemorrhoids medicine should be taken in conjunction with changes to your diet and your lifestyle to effect permanent relief. In this article, we will give you ways in which you can improve your diet and your lifestyle; ways in which you can get relief from the pain and discomfort of bleeding hemorrhoids; and natural bleeding hemorrhoids medicine which you can use to help the whole process of healing along. The important point to remember is that bleeding hemorrhoids need to be treated immediately.  And if there is no improvement within a couple of days, you will need to get advice from your doctor. Treatment for bleeding hemorrhoids at home: Change your diet to a high bulk diet where you include high fiber foods such as alfalfa, all kinds of dark green leafy vegetables, beans, broccoli, carrots, bran, flax seeds, whole grains and fresh fruits especially cherries, blackberries, blueberries, cantaloupe, red and black currants, oranges, bananas and papayas.  Many of these foods, as well as getting rid of any constipation, will also help to reduce hemorrhoid bleeding. Drink at least 6-8 glasses of water each day. Drink a glass of diluted apple cider vinegar after every meal or even between meals too.  This is helpful in stopping bleeding hemorrhoids. Do your best not to smoke or drink alcohol. Ensure you have sufficient exercise such as a brisk 20 minute walk every day. If you spend much of the day sitting at work, try to stand or walk during your breaks and especially get up and walk for at least 5 minutes every hour. Avoid lifting heavy weights but if you do have to lift anything, always breathe out as you strain or lift.  Do not hold your breath. Train yourself to have a set time each day for a bowel movement and never put off the urge to go to the toilet.  Never sit on the toilet for longer than a few minutes and do not strain to pass a stool. While the change of diet is starting to do its work, take a stool softener or a bulk forming laxative to make sure you are not constipated. Relieve the discomfort of the bleeding hemorrhoids and keep the area clean by sitting in a bowl of warm water several times a day.  Using baby wipes or special medicated wipes to pat the area dry followed by a very soft towel.  Never rub or scrub this sensitive area. There are several ways of further reducing the pain and discomfort.  You can apply an ice pack to the area several times per day; you can use a witch hazel pad; you can apply Bag Balm or Petroleum Jelly; you can soak a cotton ball in colloidal silver and place on the anus for 5 to 10 minutes repeated every few hours; or you can dab a little Vicks vapor rub on the area twice a day for a cooling sensation. Start a course of one of the many excellent natural bleeding hemorrhoids medicines such as Avatrol to treat your hemorrhoids safely and naturally or Heal Hemorrhoids and Heal Bleeding Hemorrhoids of which the latter is used first to treat bleeding hemorrhoids while reducing the pain and swelling and then the former is used to shrink and eliminate the hemorrhoids.  There are also pregnancy versions of the same two treatments which are 100% safe to be used by pregnant and nursing women.  These bleeding hemorrhoid treatments can be ordered on the internet to be delivered quickly to you at home. The main advantage of all the treatments and lifestyle changes above is that they will help not only your bleeding hemorrhoids to heal but your whole body and your whole system will benefit and there will be no side effects. All products come with Full 
                      Instructions for Use. All Products come with a full 60 
                      Day Money Back Guarantee that they will 
                      work as promised. Sitemap Testimonials Partners Copyright 2008 Naturally 
      