Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Clinical Hypnotherapy Wales Corporate Health Programme Clinical Hypnotherapy Wales corporate support is extensive and is delivered through our “ Good Health is Good Business!” Programme .  Our events are largely proactive in nature, although some can be delivered reactively and as such are suitable as part of a vocational rehabilitation / staged return to work programmes. All courses and workshops are tailored to suit each corporate client and can be used to support Corporate Health Standard applications, covering both physiological and psychological health and wellbeing issues. CONTACT US: Tel: 01443 842 426 Info@clinicalhypnotherapywales.co.uk Clinical Hypnotherapy Wales is a pleased to donate 5% of training fees to the Ward C6, University of Wales Hospital (registered charity number 1056544). Aim High: and enjoy the climb! – this course is designed for high achievers and individuals on a graduate entry or management training programme. Bursting out of the box – this workshop helps to combat feelings that we are just coping in the workplace, just drifting within self imposed feelings of comfort.  It will increase an understanding of how to maximise and achieve potential. Confidence Clinic – 1:4 workers will miss work through stress, anxiety or depression.  This course is designed for individuals whose limiting beliefs are having a profound negative impact on their life and performance. Executive Coaching - the coaching model that has been developed improves the individual performance of senior executives by enabling them to develop new ways of seeing, feeling and behaving in problematic situations. Ultimately this program will prove in a very practical way that, with the right mindset, even the most difficult of goals can be achieved. Exercise Prescription – this course will introduce attendees to the role of exercise as an indispensable prescription to combat psychological, psychosocial and pyschomusculoskeletal problems. First Aid – these courses include HeartStart, Appointed First Aiders and more specialised courses Getting back on the bus – this workshop is designed to help people after a serious injury or difficult period of change. Getting your career out of crisis – this course helps people to plan, based on current circumstances, sound self-awareness and proactive action. Health & Safety – manual handling Health Screening – health screening programmes are available on request. High performance behaviours in ourselves – this workshop explores how we can exploit our innate talents by recognising our knowledge, expertise, motivation and determination. Lifestyle Balance – this course addresses the key issues relating to work-life balance.  Those attending will be provided with an eccelctic mix of tools and strategies to be proactive in to this area. Mental toughness at work –This workshop explores how we can control our responses when the going gets tough and still focus on what we wish to achieve. Neurolinguistic Programming - NLP or Neuro-Linguistic Programming is often referred to as the study of human excellence. This course presents an introduction to this fascinating area of study, providing attendees with many practical skills for use in everyday situations. Natural Born Winners – this course helps people to identify their strengths and become self-motivated, self-aware and self-appraised. Nutrition for Health - this course will introduce attendees to the role that nutrition plays combating psychological, psychosocial and pyschomusculoskeletal problems. Pit Stop Motivators – these short courses create the opportunity for staff to get involved with expressing ideas. They are designed to encourage idea generation, problem solving, and business development by driving imagination and vitality to where it needs to go, without the disruption and logistics issues associated with multi-day, off-site programmes. Psychological First Aid – this course is bespoke as requested by an organisation. Rehabilitation and massage therapies – these services are available on-site and include on-site massage, reflexology, clinical hypnotherapy as an effective way of improving health and well-being. Self esteem for peak performance-self esteem is a pivotal part of success at any level, this workshop explores how it can help workplace and personal performance. Smoking Cessation – our ‘NO BUTTS!’ programme is designed to support employees who wish to stop smoking altogether.  Many organisations are now offering this support in order to compliment their smoking and smoke free policies. Stress Management 1 - this programme is targeted at those in supervisory and managerial roles who want to proactively manage the levels of stress within their teams, though the techniques covered apply to anyone suffering from high levels of stress,. The skills learned on this course are highly transferable and will improve the quality of life for all who attend. Stress Management 2 – this course addresses the key issues around stress and attendees will be able to identify their own causes of stress, formulate a strategy to manage stress in the workplace and be able to develop techniques to reduce personal stress levels. Successful Presentations - this course is designed to show individuals how to overcome their presentation fears and deliver with real impact. Tackling Anxiety – 1:4 workers will miss work due to stress, anxiety or depression.  This course can be delivered to managers as part of awareness raising, or can be delivered directly to individuals whose anxiety is a