
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
P3P: CP="NON DSP ADM DEV PSD TAI OUR IND STP PRE NAV UNI"
Last-Modified: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 08:52:16 GMT
Pragma: 
Expires: Sun, 26 Feb 2012 11:38:56 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=96400, must-revalidate
Set-Cookie: rng=9497107; Domain=.bizrate.com; Expires=Sun, 26-Feb-2012 08:52:16 GMT; Path=/
Set-Cookie: sessionid=720132088681879373; Domain=.bizrate.com; Expires=Sun, 26-Feb-2012 08:52:16 GMT; Path=/
Set-Cookie: br=13299298549362402791502040302022793; Domain=.bizrate.com; Expires=Tue, 22-Feb-2022 08:52:16 GMT; Path=/
Set-Cookie: _data=_time%3A%3Astart_time%3D1329962573%3Btimestamp%3D1330159936%7Ctracker%3A%3Ahtcnt%3D5259%3Brf%3Dssb%3Baf_id%3D4605%3Baf_assettype_id%3D4%3Baf_creative_id%3D5%3Baf_placement_id%3D19%3Bsearch_cid%3D22009; Domain=.bizrate.com; Expires=Sun, 26-Feb-2012 08:52:16 GMT; Path=/
Set-Cookie: userzip=0; Domain=.bizrate.com; Expires=Tue, 22-Feb-2022 08:52:16 GMT; Path=/
Set-Cookie: p13n_id=0001401c4840de0b428b976afa9cace53e0b; Domain=.bizrate.com; Expires=Tue, 22-Feb-2022 08:52:16 GMT; Path=/
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Content-Language: en-US
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 08:52:16 GMT
Connection: close

Homedics lumbar back massager  Massagers - Compare Prices, Read Reviews and Buy at Bizrate. follow us: Digital Cameras Home & Garden Clothing & Accessories Computers & Software Furniture Laptop Computers Jewelry & Watches Women's Shoes Appliances Automotive Babies & Kids Books & Magazines DVDs & Videos Electronics Gifts, Flowers & Food Health & Beauty Music Musical Instruments Office Supplies Pet Supplies Sports Equipment Toys & Games Video Games see all categories related searches: less related searches: homedics lumbar back massager , homedics back massager more related searches: homedics lumbar back massager , homedics back massager , homedics pa 100 back massager , homedics wand back massager , homedics back massager 400h , homedics back revitalizer motor massager , homedics back massager mcs , homedics back massager heat ea , homedics cordless handheld back massager , homedics back revitalizer 5 massager , homedics back massager cushion , homedics portable back massager , homedics handheld back massager , homedics back massager heat vc , homedics qrm back massager , homedics back massager 150 , homedics back massager heat 150 , homedics 5 back massager , homedics shiatsu back massager sbm 200 , homedics back massager sbm 300 , homedics shiatsu back massager Home › Health & Beauty Supplies › Massagers › homedics lumbar back massager Narrow Search Results By Price Under 
$40 Over $40 By Brand HoMedics remove Obusforme By Seller Amazon Marketplace HoMedics remove Amazon.com drugstore.com eBay By Product Group Massager remove By Massager Type Pillow By Target Relief Area Back remove Body By Massage Style Shiatsu Air Pressure Vibrating By Temperature Function Heating By Material Polyester By Keyword Related Searches homedics back revitalizer massager homedics back massager heat homedics full back massager homedics bk back massager massager homedics back homedics 5 back massager heat homedics back massager vc 150 homedics back massager parts best matches! Sort: Best Match Price Low-High Price High-Low Product Rating Grid view Tax & shipping: Homedics BKK-200 Shiatsu Lumbar Massaging Cushion Sit back and relax with the HoMedics Shiatsu Lumbar Massaging Cushion. Our state-of-the-art rotating massage mechanism offers powerful Shiatsu massage action. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $38 to $97) Related Searches: shiatsu lumbar massaging cushion homedics massaging cushion $38 to $97 at 6
sellers Homedics CUV200 Adjustable Lumbar Massager With Heat -Invigorating vibration massage cushion.-Adjustable air cavity lets you set the amount of lumbar support.-Includes soothing heat.-Health Concern: Stress Muscle Pain.-For Use On: Back.-Material: Polyester.-Power Source: Battery-Powered. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $20 to $29) Related Searches: lumbar massager adjustable lumbar chair $20 to $29 at 5
sellers HoMedics Lumbar Support Pillow, 1 ea The Beauty of Living Well. Ortho Thera-P Memory Foam Lumbar Support Pillow Superior Comfort Memory foam molds to your body's natural contours. Thermo-Sensitive Body heat activates this pillow to support your lower back.  Perfectly Portable For use in... More like this See More Results... From drugstore.com Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From drugstore.com With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics lumbar support cushion homedics lumbar back massager $18.99 Adjustable Height Lumbar Massage Pillow Your back has a new best friend. The HoMedics Adjustable Height Lumbar Massage Pillow offers invigorating vibration massage at an affordable price. Specific color cannot be guaranteed. More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics shiatsu neck massage pillow prenatal massage pillow $9.99 HoMedics Obusforme By Homedics Heat Therapy Lumbar Pad Microwavable Entire pad including cover can be quickly and easily heated in the microwave. Innovative, dual-purpose design offers heat therapy and lumbar support in one convenient accessory product. Adds soothing heat therapy to any user's Lowback backrest support,... More like this See More Results... From Amazon Marketplace Find other Massagers... Like this one By Obusforme From Amazon Marketplace With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals $26.99 Free shipping Amazon Marketplace HOMEDICS INC. Lumbar Support Cushion with Massage, QTY: 1 Lumbar Support Cushion with Massage gently supports the natural curvature of your lower back, preventing the tendency to slouch, enhancing overall posture. Vibrating, soothing massage added for extra comfort. Lightweight & Portable. More like this See More Results... From Amazon Marketplace Find other Massagers... Like this one By Obusforme From Amazon Marketplace With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics lumbar support cushion lumbar support massager $36.89 Free shipping Amazon Marketplace HoMedics Shiatsu Lumbar Massaging Cushion - BKK-200 Sit back and relax with the HoMedics Shiatsu Lumbar Massaging Cushion. Our state-of-the-art rotating massage mechanism offers powerful Shiatsu massage action. More like this See More Results... From Amazon Marketplace Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From Amazon Marketplace With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: shiatsu lumbar massaging cushion homedics shiatsu portable massaging cushion $59.98 Amazon Marketplace Homedics HHP-300 Extendable Percussion Massager Did you have a rough day at the office, or need to relieve some tension? Enjoy a powerful, relaxing massage with the HoMedics Extendable Percussion Massager. Variable speed control allows you to customize your experience. Its like having your on Personal massage therapist on call. -A Professional massage therapist is going to agree that there are many different styles and techniques is massages employed in even the most basic of massages. The percussive technique in particular is popular as an "opener" technique to get you relaxed, stimulate blood flow, and relieve localized pressures. A percussion stroke in massage is a stroke that improves circulation by stimulating blood flow and eliminating waste. The massage term for this technique is the French Word "tapotement" meaning to tap or pat. It is an effleurage technique because it is a simple stroke that is repeated and is part of a Swedish massage.-Homedics HHP-300 Extendable Percussion Massager offers an extra 3-inch lockable extender when using t More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $30 to $46) Related Searches: homedics hhp 300 massager percussion massager $30 to $46 at 12
sellers 5-Motor Back Massager with Heat The 5 Motor Back Massager is the ideal way to get a relaxing massage in the car or at home. More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals $22.99 HoMedics Homedics MCS-200H Foldable Shiatsu Massage Cushion With Heat Shop for Massage Pads from HealthyLivingEquipment.com! Soothe your aching muscles at the end of a long day with the HoMedics Shiatsu Massage Cushion with Heat. Featuring a state-of-the-art moving massage mechanism this deep tissue Shiatsu massage cushion features optional heating with three program settings for full- upper- or lower-back massage. The cushion has a soft comfortable pillow covered in luxurious fabric that conforms to your body for maximum comfort and control. It easily fits most chairs with an integrated strapping system and folds for convenient storage.HoMedics: Innovative Personal Healthcare ProductsFounded in 1987 HoMedics established its reputation initially as the leading manufacturer of back and body massagers. The company then went on to build the personal healthcare and wellness products category expanding its product offering to include hot/cold compression wraps footbaths dental products sensory relaxation systems magnetic therapy products and a wide range of personal care p More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $70 to $118) Related Searches: homedics mcs 700h shiatsu massage homedics shiatsu massage cushion $70 to $118 at 20
sellers Percussion Foot Massager Invigorating percussion massage is now available for your feet, calves, lower back, or anywhere else you need it. The battery operated Percussion Foot Massager is easy to use wherever you are and the removable hood makes it convenient to use on any... More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics foot foot massager homedics foot massager spa $19.99 HoMedics Homedics Therapist Select SBM200H Shiatsu Massage Cushion The Shiatsu massaging cushion helps you enjoy state of the art relaxation....your way. This cushion features a programmable control with 3 different programs and a moving dual massage mechanism. The shiatsu rolling massage and soothing heat travel up and down the back. The 30-second heat up is perfect for penetrating those sore muscles and the soft spot shiatsu targets just the area that aches. The width control adjusts to conform to your body so you can create your own customized massage. This massaging cushion easily fits most chairs and comes with a demonstration feature that shows you how to melt away tension, muscle pain and fatigue. This is your massage therapist on demand! Deep kneading Shiatsu massage with Heat travels fully up and down your back relieving the tightest knots. With true shiatsu massage at your fingertips, there's no more need for expensive appointments or schedules to juggle. Features: State-of-the-art moving Shiatsu massage mechanism travels up and down the back to help knead away deep aches and pains Deep kneading action simulates the hands of a professional massage therapist Deep kneading Shiatsu and Heat relieves the tightest knots Turns an ordinary chair into an extraordinary massage chair Melts away tension and fatigue 3 program Shiatsu massage for full back, lower back or upper back Programmable touch pad control for customized massage selection. Integrated strapping system for most chairs. Therapist Select. Shiatsu Massaging Cushion. Luxury Back Massager With Moving Shiatsu Massage Mechanism. Instant Heat. 30 Second Heat Up For Penetrating Relief. Shiatsu Massage & Soothing Heat Travel Up & Down The Back. Penetrating Massaging Thumbs Action Helps Knead Away Deep Aches & Pains. Programmable Control With 3 Programs: Full Back. Lower Back Or Upper Back. Melts Away Tension. Muscle Pain & Fatigue. Easily Fits Most Chairs. (2) More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $96 to $154) Related Searches: homedics therapist select shiatsu pillow homedics therapist select foot massager $96 to $154 at 9
sellers Total Coverage Shiatsu Massage Cushion The HoMedics Total Coverage Shiatsu Massage Cushion has innovative technology that lets you drive the massage heads exactly where you need them with the precision guided joystick control. Customize the massage to your specific needs, or choose one of the 6 automatic massage programs. Use the separate shoulder mechanism to enhance your massage and get the benefits of both back and shoulder massage in one cushion. You also have the option of soothing heat for a more relaxing experience. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $105 to $246) Related Searches: total coverage shiatsu massage cushion homedics shiatsu massage cushion $105 to $246 at 6
sellers Homedics Therapist Select QRM400H Quad-Roller Massaging Cushion You'll think that you spent hundreds on a massage chair, but you didn't. Thanks to breakthrough technology, a real massage chair mechanism in a convenient cushion is within your reach. So relax and rejuvenate while both Shiatsu and Rolling Massage treat your entire back---or just target problem areas---to a custom massage where and how you want it. Easily fits most chairs and, of course, all budgets.Includes:Therapist Select Quad Roller Massaging CushionWired remoteInstruction manual (in English and Spanish) This product is not for use in automobiles (1) More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $142 to $225) Related Searches: quad roller massaging cushion homedics roller massaging cushion $142 to $225 at 9
sellers Back Revitalizer 10-Motor Back Massager with Heat Our 10-Motor Back Massager is the perfect way to get a relaxing massage at home or on the go. Both home and auto adapters are included. More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics foot foot massager homedics foot massager spa $39.99 HoMedics Homedics VC-150 Back Revitalizer Heated Massage Cushion and Mat Stress Relief for your entire body / Invigorating and soothing massage / Heat Control / Variable 2 Speed / Folds for Storage More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $27 to $98) Related Searches: homedics vc 150 homedics shiatsu heated massage $27 to $98 at 11
sellers Homedics SBM-500H Therapist Select Shiatsu Massaging Cushion with Heat Finally! Luxurious massage for your back and shoulders. Independently controlled back and shoulder massage mechanisms give you the most control and the fullest massage ever. Provides Rolling, Shiatsu, and spot massage. Now with heat! (1) More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $200 to $326) Related Searches: homedics therapist shiatsu massaging cushion shiatsu massaging cushion $200 to $326 at 5
sellers Homedics VC-100 Back Charger Massage Cushion It's the basic malady of sedentary life - lower back pain. Some evidence suggests that sitting most of the day compresses the vertebrae of the lower spine. This affects the muscular areas as well. This Homedics VC-100 Back Charger Massage Cushion attaches to your seat and massages those muscle areas, keeping the fibers energized while soothing pain. The VC-100 comes with a 110V AC adapter for your home and a 12V DC Adapter for your vehicle. This way you can seek and find relief at home, at the office, or in your car. (1) More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $18 to $31) Related Searches: back charger cushion homedics vc 150 $18 to $31 at 12
sellers Homedics MCS-300H Foldable Shiatsu Massage Cushion With Heat After a long day, you deserve to sit back and relax. Unwind with the HoMedics Foldable Shiatsu Massaging Cushion with Heat. The comfy cushion features deep kneading Shiatsu plus invigoration vibration massage that travels up and down your back.The HoMedics Shiatsu massage and Vibrating Cushion offers soothing heat and relaxation to alleviate sore, tired back and neck muscles. Choose deep kneading tissue massage with our without heat. Portable, programmable and easily fits most chairs. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $80 to $150) Related Searches: homedics mcs 700h shiatsu massage homedics shiatsu massage cushion $80 to $150 at 7
sellers Deluxe Shiatsu One Massaging Cushion Imagine an all-in-one massaging cushion that adjusts to fit your body. Meet the HoMedics Deluxe Shiatsu One Massaging Cushion which offers luxurious Shiatsu massage for the back and shoulders. Add soothing heat for the most relaxing massage imaginable. More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals $199.99 HoMedics Homedics MCS-100 Shiatsu Massage Cushion Shiatsu Massage Cushion... Enjoy a relaxing Shiatsu massage anytime with our Shiatsu Massage Cushion. The state-of-the-art moving massage mechanism travels up and down the back, providing the relaxation you're looking for. FEATURES: State-of-the-art moving massage mechanism; Shiatsu massage travels up & down the back; Integrated control; It's your masseuse on demand; Easily fits most chairs. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $60 to $78) Related Searches: homedics mcs 700h shiatsu massage homedics shiatsu massage cushion $60 to $78 at 5
sellers HoMedics Ultra Plush Shiatsu Massage Pillow, 1 ea #1 Brand in Massage* For the Neck, Back & Shoulders ~ With Heat Deep Kneading Shiatsu Works just where you need it: neck, back, shoulders and more! Extended Coverage 4 Massage nodes provide a superior massage Soothing Heat For a more relaxing massage... More like this See More Results... From drugstore.com Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From drugstore.com With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: shiatsu massage pillow homedics homedics shiatsu massage pillow $49.99 $59.99 $49.99 Free shipping Back Seat Heated Car Cushion Heat your car seat instantly to low or high with the push of a button on the HoMedics heated car cushion. More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals $19.99 HoMedics Back Revitalizer 5-Motor Back Massager w/Heat 5-motor invigorating massageSoothing heatQuilted baffle box construction for supreme comfortPersonalized zone controlVariable 2-speed intensityIncludes auto and home adaptors More like this See More Results... From PayLess4Now Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From PayLess4Now With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics foot foot massager homedics foot massager spa $26.30 Free shipping PayLess4Now Therapist Select Shiatsu Massaging Cushion with Heat Therapist Select Shiatsu Massaging Cushion with Heat This state-of-the-art moving Shiatsu massage mechanism travels up and down the back to help knead away your deep aches and pains. The deep kneading action simulates the hands of a professional... More like this See More Results... From AllegroMedical.com Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From AllegroMedical.com With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals Related Searches: homedics therapist shiatsu massaging cushion shiatsu massaging cushion $163.99 AllegroMedical.com Homedics VM-100 Body Charger Massage Mat with Heat The Back Charger Massage Mat provides full body massage coverage in soothing low intensity or invigorating high intensity. Use either setting with optional heat. The mat also rolls up for convenient storage and easy transportation. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $20 to $30) Related Searches: body charger massage mat $20 to $30 at 3
sellers Homedics MCS-350H Shiatsu Massaging Cushion with Heat/Width Control/Spot Traveling dual massage mechanism State-of-the-art moving dual massage mechanism Shiatsu and rolling massage and soothing heat travel up and down the back Programmable control with 6 programs Quick heat for a more relaxing massage Spot Shiatsu holds the More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $70 to $119) Related Searches: homedics therapist shiatsu massaging cushion shiatsu massaging cushion $70 to $119 at 4
sellers HoMedics Therapist Select SBM300 Massaging Cushion Knead away muscle tension, pain and fatigue like a true hands-on massage therapist with the new Shiatsu massaging cushion. The state of the art Shiatsu mechanism travels up and down the back plus spot Shiatsu massage and adjustable width setting for rolling massage. Adjust the 6 programs with the programmable touch pad control. (2) More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $130 to $150) Related Searches: homedics therapist select shiatsu pillow homedics therapist select foot massager $130 to $150 at 2
sellers Therapist Select  Shiatsu Pillow with Heat We';ve taken the moving Shiatsu massage mechanism found in many of our best-selling massage cushions and put it into an ultra plush pillow. This design makes it easier than ever to reach your back, shoulders and neck with a true Shiatsu massage! More like this See More Results... From HoMedics Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics From HoMedics With Free Shipping With Sales & Deals $39.99 HoMedics Shiatsu Massaging Cushion with Heat The Homedics Therapist Select Shiatsu Massaging Cushion soothes full, upper or lower back with a unique shiatsu massage mechanism. The cushion offers a deep kneading massage with a moving massaging mechanism that travels up and down the back to help deep aches and pains. A removable cover provides a cushioned layer for extra comfort; the unit attaches easily to most seats and chairs for use almost anywhere. The simple programmable hand control lets you customize your shiatsu massage for ultimate relaxation and rejuvenation. More like this Find other Massagers... Like this one By HoMedics In this price range (around $100 to $100) Related Searches: homedics therapist shiatsu massaging cushion shiatsu massaging cushion $100 to $100 at 2
sellers show 30 60 90 120 items 1 2 next Stores Selling homedics lumbar back massager (Sponsored Links) Back Massager Sale - Shop Neck, Back & Foot Massage in All Brands. Low Prices & Free S/H! www.healthylivingequipment.com/ Massagers - Weight Scales - Blood Pressure Monitors - Massage Chairs Shop HoMedics - Buy HoMedics Massage & Relaxation | drugstore.com Free Shipping On $25+ User Reviews. www.drugstore.com/ Homedics Free Shipping With $25 Purchase - Instant Coupons - Free Gift With Purchase - Items With Free Shipping Lumbar Back Massager | Target.com Find Lumbar Back Massager at Target. Shop and Save at Target.com. www.target.com/ Homedics | HSN.com Homedics Massagers and Personal Care Devices. Shop HSN.com Today! www.hsn.com/ hsn.com is rated ( 247 reviews ) Homedics Massagers - Daily Discounts at Yahoo | shopping.yahoo.com Shopping Fantastic Sale on Homedics Massagers shopping.yahoo.com/ Vibrators for Women - 100% Discreet | TooTimid.com Free Express Shipping. www.tootimid.com/Vibrators tootimid.com is rated ( 123 reviews ) Bed Bath & Beyond Online - Official Site. Everyday Low Prices Beyond Value at Bed Bath & Beyond. www.bedbathandbeyond.com/ bedbathandbeyond.com is rated ( 58 reviews ) More information about
                homedics lumbar back massager Best prices on Homedics lumbar back massager in Massagers. Check out bizrate for great deals on Massagers from HoMedics and Obusforme. Use bizrate's latest online shopping features to compare prices for Homedics lumbar back massager. Read product specifications, calculate tax and shipping charges, sort your  results, and buy Health & Beauty Supplies with confidence. Easily narrow your search and find the product that's perfect for you. Show Recently Viewed Products Hide Recently Viewed Products Share Page: Get great deals! Sign up for Bizrate email. Hide See the 2011 Circle of Excellence Winners! Follow us: About Bizrate Privacy Policy User Agreement Ad Opt Out Jobs Press Merchant Login Merchant Listings & Advertising Bizrate Sitemap Index Bizrate Top Products Bizrate Store Ratings Customer Feedback & Ratings Affiliate Partners International Bizrate UK - Shopping Bizrate France - Acheter à prix discount SparDeinGeld - Preise vergleichen save money win money Sign up for our emails to save cash. PLUS a chance to win our Daily Cash Giveaway! We won't share your email with anyone. Official Rules © 2011 Shopzilla, Inc. Muze for Music: Copyright 1984-2010 Muze Inc. For personal non-commercial use only. All rights reserved. Stores are responsible for providing Bizrate with correct and current prices. Sales taxes and shipping costs are estimates; please check store for exact amounts. Product specifications are obtained from merchants or third parties. Although we make every effort to present accurate information, Bizrate is not responsible for inaccuracies. We encourage you to notify us of any discrepancies by clicking here . Store ratings and product reviews are submitted by online shoppers; they do not reflect our opinions and we have no responsibility for their content. Email Signup Get the hottest deals, products and exclusive
                offers. Your email is safe - Privacy | Contest Rules Congrats! You're Bizrate's newest email subscriber. Please check