<http://wp.me/pMLuP-NC>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

How To Do Pelvic Floor Muscle Exercises - Tips to do Pelvic Floor Exercises | Bodybuilding Supplements Guide News Feed Comments Bodybuilding Diet Exercises Fitness Others Supplements Vitamins Weight Loss Browse > Home / Exercises / Pelvic Exercises Pelvic Exercises September 4, 2010 Pelvic exercises which are otherwise called kegel exercises or pelvic floor muscle training is a treatment for stress related urinary incontinence.It also helps to prevent pelvic organ pro-lapse, aids in child birth and, also helps women to reach orgasm. In order to get effective result the pelvic exercises are to be carried out in a proper manner. For this it is necessary to have knowledge about the pelvic floor muscles. Identify Pelvic Floor Muscles The best way to identify these muscles is to tighten the muscles around the vagina and anus so as to stop the flow of urine or wind through them. These are the pelvic floor muscles. Do this exercise only on empty bladder as other wise it may lead to urine retention; however it can be done either by sitting or standing or by lying down. Tips to do Pelvic Exercises Sitting Position Sit straight in a chair and keep the back up right. Keep the knees slightly apart with the feet kept flat on the floor. Legs can be even stretched out with a cross at ankle level. Standing Position Lean on the kitchen counter with a flexed hip or stand by the side of a chair. Keep the feet shoulder width apart with the toes pointed slightly outward and knees slightly bent. Lying Position Lie down flat on the floor or bed or can even use pillow to support the head. Keep the feet slightly apart and knees bent a little. Even a pillow can be used to support the knees. Once the position that is comfortable to the practitioner is selected, then tighten the pelvic floor muscles and hold that position for three seconds. Then relax for another 3 seconds. Repeat this ten times at a stretch. Once the contracted posture is held for three seconds then gradually increases the tenure of each contraction to ten seconds. One can practice 10 to 20 sets of such contraction per day. While doing this exercise the practitioner should not hold the breath and should breathe normally. What makes practicing this exercise so beautiful is that it doesn’t consume much of your time and can be done by standing near the washbasin while brushing the teeth, or washing dishes, sitting for the dinner or while doing makeup or when resting on the bed. Filed Under Exercises Tags: kegel exercises , Pelvic Exercises , pelvic floor muscles , Pelvic Floor Muscles exercises tips , positions of Pelvic Exercises Random Posts Comments Got something to say? Join the conversation and leave a comment below. Name (required) Email Address (required) Website Speak your mind Recent Articles Top Ten Ab Exercises Long Arm Crunch Exercises For The Abs How To Start Exercising For The First Time How To Keep Strong And Fit At Home Exercises To Reduce Weight From Chest And Stomach What's More today? How To Tone Your Abs Doing Crunches Properly Truth be told, abdominal muscles are the toughest set of muscles to be trained. Crunches are one of the... How To Workout With A Gym Ball Balls are meant to be played with, right? Well, not quite. In the gyms (or even at some homes), some... How To Start Exercising For The First Time Exercising is important to ‘season’ our joints and keep them healthy. It also helps in shaping up... How To Keep Strong And Fit At Home One need not visit the gym neither does he need to sweat (and literally frightened) under huge weights,... How To Find Motivation To Workout You want to work the flabby looking mid-section of yours? No wonder! But have you seriously started performing... How To Create A Fitness Schedule Regularity and punctuality are the two words, which hold immense importance in a human being’s life.... Exercises To Reduce Weight From Chest And Stomach Our upper body region is made up of some of the biggest muscles in our body. It also has some of them... How To Stretch Before Performing Mixed Martial Arts Mixed martial arts are tough games which require proper body coordination and several difficult body... Useful Workout Tips For Single Lat Bar Single lat bars are an exercise gadget also known by the name of pull-down machine. The machine consists... How To Use Egg As A Protein Supplement One may make a number of efforts to lose excess weight, or even build up muscles, but these efforts might... Useful Curl Bar Workouts Tips Curl bars are one of the best ways of adding variety to the power exercises that we perform. The curl... Useful Tips On How To Be A Boxer Boxing is a very demanding game that requires lots of hard work, immaculate skills and knowledge of the... How To Lose Arm Fat At Home Nobody likes to have ugly fat on their arms. It can be really very frustrating as you cannot wear your... Effective Rules For Losing Fat It is not an impossible task to lose body fat. Anybody can achieve his/her perfect body by following... Cardiovascular Exercises For Knee Arthritis Arthritis is a common disease which can affect many people, causing acute pain and swelling on the joint... What's New The Best Way To Lose Weight On The Treadmill The most common type of exercise machine found in households, not including the dumbbells, is the treadmill.... How To Lose Weight Fast With Cardio Exercise When it comes to losing weight, burning calories and fat, there is no exercise which comes close to the... How To Lose Weight By Running Everyday You might have heard it already about a thousand times or more, but we bring the topic up once again.... Weight Lifting Techniques For Women Women can tone their muscles and gain strength by practicing various weight lifting workouts. However,... How To Build Strong Hamstrings With Free Weights Some of us perform the leg curl with the help of the huge machine at the gym. However, exercising the... Workout Guide: Building Stronger Calf Muscles Most of the people are usually concerned about their upper-body work outs and neglect the lower portion.Healthy... Comparing Natural Vitamin Supplements With Synthetic Supplements Vitamins are natural and organic compounds which helps you in maintaining a healthy body. Vitamins are... Best And Most Effective Body Building Supplements Huge varieties of body building supplements are coming out every day. Out of the lot, only a few really... Weight Loss with Natural Supplements Weight loss and reduction is a huge industry today. People are using many weight reduction products and... How To Tone Your Abs Doing Crunches Properly Truth be told, abdominal muscles are the toughest set of muscles to be trained. Crunches are one of the... How To Workout With A Gym Ball Balls are meant to be played with, right? Well, not quite. In the gyms (or even at some homes), some... How To Find Motivation To Workout You want to work the flabby looking mid-section of yours? No wonder! But have you seriously started performing... Importance Of Consuming Vitamins And Minerals Multivitamins are a supplement for human beings, which have a good quantity of vitamins in each dosage.... Discover Precious Facts About Liquid Vitamins And Minerals One must have vitamins and minerals in right quantum in the ingredients of the diet plan. If the optimal... Basil Oil Basil oil is an essential oil extracted from Ocimum basilicum. The essential oil is extracted by steam... The Best Way To Lose Weight On The Treadmill The most common type of exercise machine found in households, not including the dumbbells, is the treadmill.... How To Lose Weight Fast With Cardio Exercise When it comes to losing weight, burning calories and fat, there is no exercise which comes close to the... How To Lose Weight By Running Everyday You might have heard it already about a thousand times or more, but we bring the topic up once again.... Top Ten Ab Exercises Having fabulous abs is a dream of many people. Here is a list of the top ten abs exercises, which we... Long Arm Crunch Exercises For The Abs Ask yourself, ‘What is the first thing that comes to your mind when conjuring up a weighty, fat and... How To Start Exercising For The First Time Exercising is important to ‘season’ our joints and keep them healthy. It also helps in shaping up... Diet Tips For A Gym Workout Diet makes an integral part of a whole workout regime. Without a proper diet, a person undergoing gym... Top Seven Foods To Reduce High Blood Pressure Hypertension may be termed as a silent killer. If  left carelessly it leads to several problems such... Flat Belly Diet– Will It Keep Its Promises Belly fat is a major concern both for men and women and along with ages the chances of accumulation of... Useful Tips On How To Be A Boxer Boxing is a very demanding game that requires lots of hard work, immaculate skills and knowledge of the... Body cleansing foods In the process of lifetime, our body gets large deposits of internal wastes and harmful materials by... 6 Dimensions of wellness An expanded idea of health is wellness and it is the absence of disease. Health for any one is vital... C