<http://www.daatc.com/?p=286>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Sinus Problems or Sinusitis | Dublin Acupuncture Dublin Acupuncture & Allergy Testing Clinic Skip to content Home About Us Acupuncture History Of Acupuncture Types Of Acupuncture What Can We Treat Treatments Allergy Testing Acupuncture Treatments Fertility Treatment Miscarriage & Acupuncture Gynaecology Asthma Irritable Bowel Syndrome Needle Free Acupuncture FAQ Links Contact Us News ← Welcome to DAATC! Acupuncture – treating US troops in Afghanistan → Sinus Problems or Sinusitis Posted on June 27, 2011 by admin By Beverly Mc Govern Nutritional Advisor, Dip. Chinese Herbs, ITEC., IFR., Dip.Ac., Lic. Ac., What is it? Sinusitis is inflamation of the nasal cavaties within the passages of the nose (Para nasal sinuses).  It is a very common condition that can affect people regularly throughout their lives.  Symptoms can include facial pain or pressure, blocked or runny nose, post nasal drip or phelgm in the throat, muzzy, cotton wool feeling in the head.  It commonly occurs when the enviromental pollens irritate the nasal passages for example with hay fever.  Other irritants or allergens can also trigger sinus problems such as dust mite, animal dander, food intolerances, aerosol sprays, perfumes, paints, etc.m  Sinusitis can also be caused by infrection, whether fungal, viral or bacterial. How Does Chinese Medicine View Sinus Problems? Traditional Chinese Medicine sees sinusitis as invasion of Wind-Heat or Damp-Heat, Deficiency of Spleen or Lung Qi (energy).  Chinese Herbs or Acupuncture may be used to expel or purge Heat, Wind or Dampness.  Usually these herbs will cause mucus to drain from the sinus and relieve pressure.  Herbal tonics or specific acupuncture points may be used to strengthen or tonify the lung or spleen energy.  In recurring sinusitis the aggravating allergen should ideally be removed.  So Allergy or Intolerance testing would be wise. What Can Aggravate Sinus Problems? Chinese Medicine believes that the Spleen does not like dampness and what have we in Ireland but a VERY damp climate.  Thus sinus problems are very common in Ireland.  Sinus problems relating to the Spleen Qi Defiency or invasion of dampness are usually worse in October/November or March/April seasons due to the fact that they are usually very damp months with lots of rain.  Humid days in the summer will also aggravate sinuses or equally travelling to humid countries.  Flying will effect the sinuses.  Pressure changes will effect the sinuses and can cause painful episodes in some cases.  Or travelling to areas of high altitude.  It is vitally important to look at the diet also.  Intolerance to certain foods will encourage the production of mucus.  Diet can reduce the amount of mucus in the sinus. A Zinc Deficiency can also cause problems in the mucus membranes in the respiratory tract.  Exposure to air borne allergies such as dust mites, pollens, moulds, perfumes, aerosols, chemicals, animal dander, feathers, etc. I would strongly recommend an Allergy/Intolerance Test to identify trigger factors, to correct the diet to account for any vitamin or mineral deficiencies.  A simple exclusion process after this test will often be the simplest course of action to identify and eliminate the causes. If you would like to book an Allergy/Intolerance Test please contact us! http://daatc.com TCM DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT http://tlc.howstuffworks.com/family/how-to-treat-sinusitis-with-traditional-chinese-medicine.htm On your first visit a detailed assessment is carried out.  This includes, Chinese tongue pulse and facial diagnoses, past and current medical history, nutrition diet and lifestyle assessment, allergy/food intolerant test. Depending on the diagnoses, a treatment plan will then be advised for you. This may involve exclusion diet, acupuncture / needle free acupuncture, Chinese herbal medicine, breathing techniques, nutrition diet and lifestyle changes. Any exclusion diet will be fully explained and include recommendations for alternative foods.   All consultations are strictly private and by appointment only. Acupuncture cures chronic sinus congestion How to treat sinus with TCM http://www.healthcmi.com/index.php/acupuncturist-news-online/347-acupuncturecureschronicsinuscongestion1811 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shOliYPZiLA&feature=relmfu This entry was posted in Sinus and tagged Sinus Problems or Sinusitis . Bookmark the permalink . ← Welcome to DAATC! Acupuncture – treating US troops in Afghanistan → Comments are closed. Beverly McGovern Beverly McGovern 564 Howth Road Raheny Dublin 5 01 851 0285 Email Beverly Lorraine McGovern Lorraine McGovern Affiliated to Zita West 564 Howth Road Raheny Dublin 5 01 832 8256 086 8046269 Email Lorraine Joanne McGovern Joanne McGovern 106 Nutgrove Avenue Rathfarnham Dublin 14 086 836 2705 Email Joanne VHI Healthcare Quinn Direct VIVAS Health HSA Ireland Foundation Search for: Categories ACNE Acupuncture Allergies Asthma BP Cancer care chronic fatigue dementia Fertility Fertility enhancement pregnancy and labour Gynaecology IVF enhancement labour muscular and skeletal aches and pains PCOS Sinus Uncategorized WEIGHT LOSS Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 September 2010 August 2010 Recent Posts Chinese medicine improves blood cell count in Cancer patients GET RID OF PERIOD PAIN ONCE AND FOR ALL DO YOU SUFFER FROM ACUTE OR CHRONIC PAIN??? Fertility enhancement pregnancy and labour OBESITY AND TCM Search for: Search for: Follow  Us Get Your Fees Back! Please check with your health insurance company as your can claim up to 40-50% of acupuncture fees back depending on the policy that you have! Fertility Is it true that Acupuncture can help with fertility? Read More Asthma Asthma causes inflammation, tightening and swelling of the airways causing obstruction in the flow of air to and from the lungs.  Symptoms include wheezing, breathlessness, coughing, chest tightness, mucus and phlegm. Read More Allergy Testing Many substances can produce a negative reaction within the body.
At the clinics we do a comprehensive test based on Chinese Medicine to determine if you have any food intolerances or if airborne substances and chemicals are causing problems for you.  Any exclusion diet needed will be fully explained including food reintroduction, treatment and long term management. Read More DAATC Menu Home About Us Acupuncture History Of Acupuncture Types Of Acupuncture What Can We Treat Treatments Allergy Testing Acupuncture Treatments Fertility Treatment Miscarriage & Acupuncture Gynaecology Asthma Irritable Bowel Syndrome Needle Free Acupuncture FAQ Links Contact Us News Recent Comments Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org © 201