Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Health Benefits of Honey Other Sections: ---------------- H O M E Our Plan Our Policy Our Papers ---------------- Parenting Sister's Page Muslim Youth Children's Page Shahadah Da'wah Khalifah Asphorism Islamic Books Islamic News Multimedia Countries ---------------- Links Index Ask Scholar Search Engines Contact Us H O M E .:: Health : Health Benefits Of Honey "And your Lord revealed to the bee saying: Make hives in the
		mountains and in the trees and in what they build: Then eat of all the fruits and
		walk in the ways of your Lord submissively. There comes forth from within it a
		beverage of many colours, in which there is healing for men; most surely there is
		a sign in this for a people who reflect. (Surat an-Nahl, 68-69) Honey is a sweet treat. In fact, it is man's oldest sweetener. It can be a
		good substitute for sugar in our drinks and food. But it is also good for many
		other things and  treating many other conditions. Reliance on commercialized
		medicines which contains too much chemicals can become hazardous to our health.
		Alhamdullilah, Allah has given us the knowledge that Mother Nature can at least
		help to ease the pain we are suffering from.
		
		Honey is composed of sugars like glucose and fructose and minerals like
		magnesium, potassium, calcium, sodium chlorine, sulphur, iron and phosphate. It
		contains vitamins B1, B2, C, B6, B5 and B3 all of which change according to the
		qualities of the nectar and pollen. Besides the above, copper, iodine, and zinc
		exist in it in small quantities. Several kinds of hormones are also present in it. 
		
		Approximately one half of the human diet is derived directly or indirectly
		from crops pollinated by bees. Today honeybees are an essential part of a healthy
		agriculture economy. If you have allergies, honey can be beneficial. If you eat
		honey that is local to your area, it may prevent your seasonal allergies. Bees
		use the pollen from local plants and eventually it ends up in your honey. 
		
		Honey may also be good for your skin. It has the ability to attract water.
		You can use honey instead of alpha hydroxy masks because of its high content of
		the acid. It is also safe for sensitive skin. 
		
		You can also use it as a moisturizing mask for your skin as well as your
		hair. To use it as a conditioner, mix the honey with olive oil. Be sure to wash
		your hair thoroughly before you go outside. 
		
		If you have a sore throat, take some honey.Due to its natural anti-inflammatory
		effect, it will help to heal the wounds more quickly.It also has different
		phytochemicals--chemicals found in plants and different foods--that kill viruses,
		bacteria, and fungus making it a good substitute for wound dressings. The taste
		may also take your mind off the pain. 
		
		There is evidence that honey diluted in water will help with your
		stomachaches and dehydration. Germ-Fighting Properties Do you have a cut? Honey is a natural antiseptic. Medical journals cite more
		than 600 cases in which honey was employed to treat wounds.By applying honey to
		your wounds, you prevent infections. Honey contains antimicrobial agents, which
		prevents infections by killing the bacteria in and around your wounds. When using
		honey it may help to heat it up before putting it on your wound (caution test the
		heat before you place it on the wound).Many types of bacteria can’t survive in
		honey, so wounds heal, swelling eases, and tissue can grow back. 
		
		Honey may also be effective in the treatment of your ulcers.In Europe, honey
		has been used internally to help cure ulcers, particularly stomach ulcers. 
		
		Burns, too, heal better with honey, studies show. The advantage of honey is
		that it not only prevents infections from occurring, it actually accelerates skin
		healing.. Since the sugar in honey absorbs water it helps to trap some of the
		moisture so that the bacteria and other microbes can’t grow as easily as in other
		food. How Does It Help In Healing Wounds? When honey comes into contact with body moisture, the glucose oxidase enzyme
		introduced to the honey by the bee slowly releases the antiseptic hydrogen
		peroxide at a sufficient level to be effective against bacteria but not tissue
		damaging. Not only is honey anti-bacterial, it also draws body fluids and nutrients
		to the area and so assists cell growth and prevents a scar forming by drying out
		of the wound. 
		
		The osmotic action of the honey draws out and provides a film of liquid
		between the tissues and the dressing, allowing the dressing to be removed
		painlessly, without tearing of the re-growing cells. There are reports in medical
		journals of large bed sores, otherwise needing skin grafts, that have healed
		without scarring after honey treatment. 
		
		In treating diarrhea, honey promotes the rehydration of the body and more
		quickly clears up the diarrhea and any vomiting and stomach upsets. The
		anti-bacterial properties of honey, both the peroxide and non-peroxide, are
		effective in the laboratory against MRSA strains of bacteria which are notoriously
		resistant to antibiotics and are sometimes responsible for the closing of
		hospital wards. Other Benefits of Honey Easily digested: Because sugar molecules in honey can convert into other
		sugars (e.g. fructose to glucose), honey is easily digested by the most sensitive
		stomachs, despite its high acid content. It helps kidneys and intestines to
		function better. Good source of antioxidants: It plays a big role in the prevention of cancer
		as well as heart disease. Has a low calorie level: Another quality of honey is that, when it is compared
		with the same amount of sugar, it gives 40% less calories to the body. Although
		it gives great energy to the body, it does not add weight. Rapidly diffuses through the blood: When accompanied by mild water, honey
		diffuses into the bloodstream in 7 minutes. Its free sugar molecules make the
		brain function better since the brain is the largest consumer of sugar, thus,
		reduces fatigue. 
		
		S upports blood formation: Honey provides an important part of the energy
		needed by the body for blood formation. In addition, it helps in cleansing the
		blood. It has some positive effects in regulating and facilitating blood
		circulation. It also functions as a protection against capillary problems and
		arteriosclerosis. Does not accommodate bacteria: This bactericide (bacteria-killing) property
		of honey is named "the inhibition effect". Experiments conducted on honey show
		that its bactericide properties increase twofold when diluted with water. It is
		very interesting to note that newly born bees in the colony are nourished with
		diluted honey by the bees responsible for their supervision - as if they know
		this feature of the honey. Royal Jelly: Royal jelly is a substance produced by worker bees inside the
		beehive. Inside this nutritious substance are sugar, proteins, fats and many
		vitamins. It is used in problems caused by tissue deficiency or body frailty. 
		
		It is obvious that honey, which is produced in much higher amounts than the
		requirements of the bees, is made for the benefit of man. And it is also obvious
		that bees cannot perform such an unbelievable task "on their own." Other Sections: ---------------- H O M E Our Plan Our Policy Our Papers ---------------- Parenting Sister's Page Muslim Youth Children's Page Shahadah Da'wah Khalifah Asphorism Islamic Books Islamic News Multimedia Countries --------------