
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 06:58:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: 8edfd63262a2a2d545b0b5c4c07aa531
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 06:58:49 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Athletes May Suffer From Low Back Pain Back Pain Details Your guide to Back Pain Relief! Back Pain Relief Guide Sitemap Contact Us Menu Causes Of Back Pain Back Pain Myths And Facts Back Pain Diagnosis And Symptoms Back Pain Treatment Back Pain Prognosis Low back Pain Low Back Pain Relief Living With Back Pain Articles Back Pain Myths Back Pain Surgery Backpain Overview Causes Of Back Pain Diagnosis Of Back Pain Living With Back Pain Lower Back Pain Prevention and Treatment Prognosis of Back Pain Symptoms Of Back Pain Treatment of Back Pain Upper Back Pain Popular Articles Chronic Back Pain Between Shoulder Blades My Lower Back Pain Back and Stomach Pain Back Pain: A Common Problem Chronic Back Pain Axial Back Pain Are You Living With Pain In The Back, Foot And Ankle? Athletes May Suffer From Low Back Pain Back and Neck Pain Constant Back Pain Search Athletes May Suffer From Low Back Pain Almost anyone and everyone can suffer from lower back pain but it is the athletes who are the most susceptible to the problem. Athletes are constantly engaged in physical activities that cause stress on the back. Though several problems pertaining to the lower back can occur as a result of repeated stress, Spondylolisthesis and Spondylolysis are the most common. Spondylolisthesis This condition refers to slipping of one of the vertebra in the vertebral column. While one of the vertebra slips ahead, the other vertebra remains in the same position causing a misaligned back. This results in back pain. Though any vertebra of the back can slip from its default position, the slippage usually happens at the LS-S1 level. People who are involved in any kind of sport can develop Spondylolisthesis. However, it is gymnasts who are the most susceptible to the problem. This is because gymnastics put a great strain on the back which can lead to Spondylolisthesis. Other sports that come with a greater risk of this lower back problem include diving, weightlifting and football. The extent of injury caused in this lower back pain is measured in grades. Here in, every grade denotes a slippage by 25 %. So for instance, if a person has been diagnosed with Grade 2 Spondylolisthesis, it denotes 50 % contact within the two adjacent vertebra. There are four major grades of Spondylolisthesis. While lower grade of the problem may be treated at home with simple stretching exercises and physical therapy, Spondylolisthesis in higher grades needs surgery. Spondylolysis This is yet another common lower back pain problem experienced by most athletes. Put simply, Spondylolysis refers to an overuse injury. When the pars in the back is subjected to repeated stress, it causes a fracture. Pars is an area of bone in the facet joint, where two adjoining vertebra meet. This part in the vertebral column is quite weak and small and is susceptible to injury. Most competitive sports run the risk of Spondylolysis. Soccer, gymnastics, dance, football etc are some sports that cause the forward flexing of the spine. This repeatedly induces mechanical stress in the back. As a result, Spondylolysis is developed. People who are suffering from Spondylolysis deal with acute lower back pain. This pain worsens with activity. Lower back pain may also be accompanied with tightening of the hamstring muscles. Most cases of Spondylolysis may be treated with physical therapy alone. In addition, a brace may be recommended to strengthen the muscles. However, there are some stubborn cases of the problem that may not be treated by physical therapy alone. In such cases, electric stimulation may be required. The most severe cases of the problem demand a surgery. Related Articles Back and Stomach Pain... Do you Suffer From Pain In Lower Left Back?... Descriptions Of Chronic Back Pain... Stenosis of the Spine... Back Pain Muscles... Understand Your Chiropractic Back Pain... For Chronic Back Pain... Back Pain: A Common Problem... What Is Upper Back Pain?... Understand Your Back Pain... My Lower Back Pain... Beware Children, If you have scoliosis!... Chronic Back Pain... Tracheal Stenosis... Spinal Stenosis – An Overview... Radicular Back Pain... Types Of Back Pain... Back And Leg Pain... Symptoms Of Low Back Pain... Severely Herniated Disc... Latest Articles Do Regular Exercise To Cure Back Pain A Visit To The Spa Can Help You Combat Back Pain Basics Of Back Pain Before You Get A Back Massage Avoid Back Pain When Gardening Fifteen Remedies For Back Pain Relieve Back Pain Through Reflexology How To Avoid back pain while cycling? What Is Discogenic Back Pain? Back Stretches For Pain Relief Copyright © 2006 - 2012 Back Pa