Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Enzymes & Magnesium Activated Charcoal Aloe Calcium Carnosine/Carn-Aware CoQ10/Co-Enzymes Culturelle research FOS and Inulin Magnesium MCT / Lauricidin Probiotics Xanthones Supplement Sources This independent site is for education and information about digestive enzymes. There is a large need to provide practical and general information on enzyme therapy for a wide range of uses. Enzymes have been around a very long time. Hopefully this site will help reduce the learning curve. Ideas, comments, and questions are welcome. Site Information Magnesium Forms of Magnesium Magnesium in the Body Recommended Dosing Magnesium Deficiency References August 2001. copyright Kd. last updated 5.7.06 Forms of Magnesium After looking into magnesium for months, what I came away with is that 
          magnesium comes in two types: - soluble forms/organic (aspartate, malate, glycinate, citrate and succinate etc.) - insoluble forms/inorganic salts (chloride, carbonate, oxide). Overall, the chelated magnesium and magnesium glycinate are often referred to as 
          being very absorbable. The soluble ones are pretty equally absorbed and as a group are much better 
          absorbed than the insoluble group. Of the insoluble group, the oxide is the 
          best absorbed. The insoluble group is far more likely to cause loose 
          stools/diarrhea than the other group. If magnesium nutrition is what you want, 
          go for the soluble group. If constipation is the issue, then some insoluble 
          forms are okay. The loose stool effect (if not wanted) can be minimized by 
        taking the magnesium with food. Most of the products I saw on the shelves at the store were a mixture of 
          magnesium types. Sometimes I would see a bottle of a specific type of 
          magnesium, such as Magnesium Citrate. But the ones marked just Magnesium were 
        usually a mixture. And some had as many as 4-5 different types in the mixture. Although I have spent some time looking at magnesium sources, there seems to be
          varied opinions. Here is a reputable source from a book on nutrition: "Magnesium chelated with amino acids is probably the most absorbable form. Less absorbable forms include magnesium bicarbonate, magnesium oxide, and magnesium carbonate. Magnesium oxide is probably somewhat better than magnesium carbonate (dolomite). The newly available salts of magnesium aspartate or citrate, both 
          known as mineral transporters, have a better percentage of absorption." http://www.healthy.net/asp/templates/article.asp?PageType=article&ID=2060 What chelate form means: "Magnesium Chelate (Amino Acid): A chemically reacted magnesium ion, bound to 
          1 or more amino acids, thus allowing the magnesium to enter through the 
          intestinal wall via the amino acid pathway rather than active magnesium 
          diffusion. A true reacted chelate differs from simply mixing the amino acids 
          and minerals which is often referred to as "chelated"." http://www.nutraceuticals.com/reactedmagnesium.htm You need to balance out how absorbable a product is versus the quantity of 
          the mineral that is in it versus the price. Magnesium in the Body Many times the chelated forms of anything are very absorbable and this explains why. Next is a link to a short summary of magnesium and its role in the body: http://www.auravita.com/secure_check.asp?prodpage=http://www.auravita.com/ healthnotesonline/ukinet50/Supp/Magnesium.asp An even shorter summary: http://health.yahoo.com/health/Diseases_and_Conditions/Disease_Feed_Data/ Magnesium_in_diet Recommended Dosing Always double check dosing with a proper health care practitioner for your personal situation. Recommended Daily Allowances: 350 mg/day for adult males over age 18 280 mg for females over age 18 320 mg for adult females - pregnant 355 mg for females lactating 0-6 months 340 mg for females lactating 6 months+ 400 mg for males ages 15-18 300 mg for females ages 15-18 270 mg for males ages 11-14 280 mg for females ages 11-14 170 mg for children ages 7-10 120 mg for children ages 4-6 80 mg for children ages 1-3 60 mg for infants ages 0.5-1.0 40 mg for infants ages 0-0.5 These amounts are for healthy people. A person in an unwell or deficient state 
          would need more. Most places recommend a 2:1 calcium:magnesium ratio for 
          regular function, not including a deficient state. When I was researching this,
          I looked up the amounts in a reference book in the HFS. The average recommended
          amount was generally 1000 mg/day for ADHD, anxiety disorder, migraines, sleep
          disorders, autism and some of the autoimmune disorders. These are probably for 
          an adult and so a child should have 1/2 or 1/3. This puts it around 300-500 
          mg/day. I haven't found an upper limit to magnesium, and have read several
          places there is no known toxicity. Also, we saw again and again that there was not a toxicity problem because the 
          body does not store magnesium as it does calcium. The body excretes what is not
        used. Your upper limit will be when you notice continuous loose stools. Here is a link to children's doses for vitamins, minerals and herbs. You may 
          need to piece the url together since it is so long: http://www.alternativeparenting.com/health/natural_remedies/herbal_dosage.htm NOTE: Excessive magnesium inhibits calcium and excessive calcium inhibits magnesium - although I didn't seen any amount as given as "excessive" for 
          magnesium. Calcium had the number of 2500 mg/day most likely for an adult - 
          from the Encyclopedia of Nutritional Supplements at the HFS. 
        It is a balancing act. Symptoms of Magnesium Deficiency Magnesium deficiency is associated with fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, 
          migraines, and a bunch of other ailments. Supplementing with magnesium has 
        helped many of these conditions in clinical studies. The symptoms of magnesium deficiency are irritability, tantrums, seizures, 
          insomnia, muscle cramps/twitching, hyperactivity and poor digestion among 
          others. Magnesium is needed for proper electrolyte function, over 300 enzyme 
        functions, and calcium absorbtion. I also found it very interested to read that one of the primary sources of 
          dietary magnesium is whole grains and cereals. If one goes 100% gluten free,
          you may be losing a main source of magnesium, and could go deficient 
          especially if you are also supplementing with extra calcium to make up for the
        casein free part. Higher amount of magnesium may cause a laxative effect (milk of magnesium, epsom salts ). Clinical indications of magnesium deficiency were associated with the following: ADD/ADHD Alzheimer's disease Anxiety Asthma Attention deficit disorder Autism Auto immune disorders- all types Cerebral Palsy- in children from magnesium deficient mothers Chronic fatigue syndrome Chronic pain Congestive heart failure Constipation Crohn's disease Depression Diabetes mellitus Endometriosis Fibromyalgia Gut disorders- including peptic ulcer, Crohn's disease, colitis Food allergy Headaches Hyperactivity Hypertension Hypoglycemia Insomnia Irritable bowel syndrome Menopause Migraines Multiple sclerosis Muscle cramps Muscle weakness, fatigue Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Parkinson's disease PMS Psoriasis Schizophrenia Stress Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) Tension Ulcerative colitis References Natural Calm Natural Calm is a very absorbable magnesium citrate 
          powder that you dissolve in water and drink. It has a very mild citrus/orange taste. Here is the site for Natural Calm magnesium and you can get it at your health food store. They now have several flavors and offer individual travel size-type packettes: http://www.naturalcalm.net/home.shtml Even if you aren't interested in this product, it has LOADS of information on magnesium, how is affects different conditions, how calcium and/or magnesium deficiencies are created AND you can ask for a free sample to be sent. I got a 
          free sample in the HFS and, if it is the same sample, it contains 3 full 
          teaspoons which is 1 serving. Although for a child you would give at least half
          and start lower. The price on the web site is the same as it is at my HFS. Magnesium is supposed to help with pain, migraines, chronic fatigue, fibro and 
          other conditions. This is supposed to be quickly absorbed. The literature says 
          it can work "in minutes" and so I made some as soon as I got home. About 20 
          minutes later, my headache was significantly better. It is used by doctors and
        clinics according to the literature. Suggestions for mixing Natural Calm if you don't care for hot drinks: What I did on various occassions was: Add 1/8 to 1/4 cup boiling water to the amount of powder. This  istantly dissolves the powder so it disperses into solution. Then add  that to cold orange juice or lemonade. Even punch type drink or other  juice will do. Because the natural calm is already citrus, it  blends well into a citrus drink (no strange taste). You can add it to an appropriate bottle of flavored  water. I put the powder into empty capsules and my son just swallowed 2-3  capsules in the morning and then again at night. Eventually he liked  swallowing the capsules better so I looked around for magnesium tablet,  and that is when we went to the Source Naturals Mag malate. However, I  he and I both felt that the Natural Calm was metabolized much quicker  (he was old enough to say this because he takes it to relieve  constipation. I take magnesium more migraines and muscle relaxing.) You can dissolve the Natural Calm in  hot water along with a tea bag - make hot or cold tea this way. Brainchild Nutritionals Night-Cal The  supplement contains the following, per
          each 2 Teaspoon Dose of NightCal: Calcium from Kreb's Chelates450 mg Magnesium from Kreb's Chelates50 mg Potasium Alpha Ketoglutarate100 mg Selenium from Selenomethionine100 mcg Vitamin D-3 as Cholecalciferol100 IU The direct link with description is: http://www.brainchildnutritionals.com/Night_Calx.html Magnesium Article Here is a link to a pretty thorough, but easy to follow, description of 
          magnesium from HealthWorld Online. Magnesium article "Magnesium chelated with amino acids is probably the most absorbable form. Less absorbable forms include magnesium bicarbonate, magnesium oxide, and magnesium carbonate. Magnesium oxide is probably somewhat better than magnesium carbonate (dolomite). The newly available salts of magnesium aspartate or citrate, both 
          known as mineral transporters, have a better percentage of absorption." It also says that calcium and magnesium should be taken between meals, on an
          empty stomach for best absorption. "The many enzyme systems that require magnesium help restore normal energy 
          levels. Because of this function and its nerve and muscle support, magnesium 
          may also be helpful for nervousness, anxiety, insomnia, depression, and muscle 
          cramps." Reference showing how magnesium helps with good sleep. Magnesium Research 2002 March 15(1-2):49-66 Biorhythms and possible central regulation of magnesium status, phototherapy, darkness therapy and chronopathological forms of magnesium depletion. Durlach J, Pages N, Bac P, Bara M, Guiet-Bara A. Biological clock and magnesium status are linked. Central magnesium regulation may be hypothetized. Balanced magnesium status is requested to obtain efficiency of suprachiasmatic nuclei and of pineal gland. Conventional bright light therapy appears as a speedy and efficient antidepressant medication useful for the treatment of various types of depression, and of non migrainous headaches also. Although decrease in melatonin production seems accessory, increases of serotonergy and perhaps of Reactive Oxygen Species constitute the main mechanisms of action. Chromatotherapy emphazizes the effects of short exposure to specific colors. Although the increased production of melatonin constitutes the best marker of darkness, it is only an accessory mechanism of its action. The psycholeptic sedative effects of darkness, like those of magnesium, rely on direct membraneous and oxidant actions, neural mediated effects (i.e. stimulation of inhibitory neuromodulators such as GABA and taurine), and on antagonism of neuroactive gases (CO and NO). Darkness therapyper se, partial substitutive therapy with melatonin and with their mimicking agents (Mg, L-Tryptophan,Taurine) apply to all the chronopathological forms of magnesium depletion with decreased production of melatonin: sleep disorders, migraine, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, some forms of asthma and of sudden infant death syndrome. Further research should assess the importance of the chronopathological forms of magnesium depletion in the physiopathology of these disorders. Can oral magnesium reduce frequent migrainous headaches in children? A study was carried out to assess whether oral magnesium can reduce   migrainous headache frequency, severity, and associated features in children   compared to placebo. They recruited children of ages 3 to 17 years who reported   a 4-week history of moderate-to-severe headache with a throbbing or pulsatile   quality, associated anorexia/nausea, vomiting, photophobia, or relief with   sleep, but no fever or evidence of infection. They received either magnesium (9   mg/kg per day by mouth divided 3 times a day with food) or matching placebo for   16 weeks. Results showed a statistically significant decrease over time in   headache frequency and severity in the magnesium group but not in the placebo   group. This study shows that treatment with magnesium may lead to a significant   reduction in migrainous headache days in children. Hea