
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 16:29:37 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Last-Modified: Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 16:29:37 GMT
Expires: Tue, 29 Dec 1970 05:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html

Earwax is good for children - hear-it.org Contact Sitemap Print Sites: Hear Youth Medical Political Press Languages: English Español News Hearing loss Hearing aids Implants Tinnitus Advice Links Search Identifying Counseling Advice for patients Children Questions Communication aids Articles Children and hearing loss Normal response to sounds Symptoms of hearing loss How to protect a childs hearing Ear infections more common in summer Parents of newborn with hearing loss Otitis media Testing childrens hearing Hearing screening of infants Protect your unborn baby against hearing loss Earwax is good for children Severe hearing loss hinders recognition of emotions of others Tube in ear can cause hearing loss Hearing loss in children causing parental distress Hearing-problems not the end of the world For Family Doctors Identifying Counselling Advice for patients Children Sound files - examples Glossary Earwax is good for children Share Children need earwax just as adults do. The wax is used to lubricate and clean the ear of dust, dirt and other material that can collect inside the auditory canal. The earwax transports the dirt out of the ear, and both wax and dirt will eventually fall out of the ear by themselves. Therefore, it is not a good idea to put cotton buds or other objects into your child's ears. Such objects can clog up the ears and make matters worse rather than alleviate the problem. They can also perforate the eardrum, resulting in bleeding and temporary hearing loss. If your child's ears need to be cleaned, wrap a damp cloth around your index finger and carefully wash the ears with circular movements. Never use anything else than the index finger and a damp cloth. When to consult your GP Earwax is produced in glands found in the thick skin along the outer auditory canal. If wax production seems unnaturally excessive, consult your GP. Your child needs to see a doctor if he/she complains about constant itching and pain in the auditory canal, if puss or other matter is flowing from the ear, or if you find a red, painful swelling inside the child's auditory canal. Your child should also visit your GP if he/she complains about hearing loss or has ringing noises in the ears. And you must always see a doctor if a foreign object has become lodged inside the child's ear. Other symptoms to be aware of could be earwax of different colours or of varying consistency from time to time, e.g. a thick goo blocking the ear. If the ear is clogged up or blocked or if your child experiences a partial hearing loss you should also see your doctor. What you can do You can do some things yourself, however. Consult your doctor and buy prescription-free ear drops which can remove the earwax. If an insect becomes lodged inside your child's ear, you may put a few drops of mineral oil into the auditory canal. The oil will pacify the insect until your GP can remove it. Do not attempt to remove a foreign object from the ear as this may push it even further into the ear. News Hearing loss is the 3rd most common health problem in the US. February 8, 2012 Children wait for years to get help for their hearing loss January 19, 2012 Identifying hearing loss — but not at the GP January 16, 2012 A hearing test does not always detect hearing loss January 11, 2012 Tinnitus is 2.5 times more prevalent in those under stress December 2, 2011 Hear-it.org © Contact: ed