
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 08:34:16 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.9 (Debian) PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny8 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.9 OpenSSL/0.9.8g
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny8
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bariatric Surgery | Gastric Sleeve | Gastric Bypass Surgery | Mexicali, Mexico Online Help Desk Home Treatments Destinations Resources Medical Centers FREE Quotes Packages Pricing Contact Us Search: Medical Center Treatments Articles News Videos Packages Find Medical Procedures Treatment Treatment A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Addiction Treatment Age Management Alternative Medicine Anti-Aging Ayurveda Cancer Treatment Chinese Medicine Chronic Diseases Cosmetic/Plastic Surgery Dentistry Detox ENT Executive Healthcheck Eye/Lasik Care Fertility Treatment General Medicine General Surgery Gynecology Treatment Heart Care/Surgery Herbal Treatment Homeopathy Treatment Infertility | IVF Laparoscopic Surgery Medical Spa Treatment Natural Therapies Neurology Obesity/Bariatric Surgery Organ Transplant Orthopedic/Knee Surgery Others Pediatric Treatment Psychiatry Radiology/CT Scans Rehabilitation Skin Care Spine Care | Surgery Sports Medicine Stem Cell Therapy Urology Vascular Surgery Weight Loss Program Yoga/Meditation Region/Country Region country A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Africa Asia Central America Europe Latin America Middle East North America South America Albania Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Barbados Belgium Bolivia Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Fiji Islands France Georgia Germany Greece Guatemala Hungary India Indonesia Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jordan Latvia Lebanon Lithuania Macedonia Malaysia Malta Mexico Morocco New Zealand Nigeria Norway Oman Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Serbia Singapore Slovakia South Africa South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Tunisia Turkey UAE Ukraine United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela Vietnam Free Subscription Enter Email Address Enter your first & last name Enter security code below * Popular Health & Wellness
                      Requests Affordable Kidney Transplant Surgery Cheap Dentistry Packages in Costa Rica Cosmetic Surgery Packages in Cancun Mexico Dental Implants Package from Cairo Egypt Ilizarov Limb Lenghtening Surgery Package Turkey IVF Treatment Package in Istanbul Turkey Knee Surgery Packages in India from $7000 Lap Band Surgery Package in Mexico Special Summer Offer - IVF Package in India Spine Surgery in Korea Stem Cell Treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis disease in Mexico Stem Cell Treatment Packages Want to feel young An Amazing Anti-Aging Program in Croatia Best Dentists in Costa Rica Best Hospitals in India Best Hospitals in Turkey Best Sports Therapy in Croatia Cosmetic Surgery in Germany Dental Holidays in Egypt Drug Addiction Treatment Center Abroad Fertility Treatment in Argentina Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico Swiss Medical Resort Alcohol Addiction treatment russia Costa Rica Dental Implants Fertility Treatment in India Gastric Bypass Surgery Mexico Heart Bypass Surgery in Turkey Knee Replacement Surgery India Laser Eye Surgery in Bangkok Thailand Spine Surgery in Korea Sports Therapy And Rehabilitation Croatia Stem Cell Therapy Abroad Weight Loss Surgery Latin America Center Profile: Mexicali Obesity Solutions | Bariatric Surgery Mexicali Obesity Solutions | Bariatric Surgery : Affordable bariatric surgery in Mexicali Home > Mexico Contact Information: Mexicali Obesity Solutions +1 303 578 0719 Location: Mexicali, Mexico Mexicali Obesity Solutions | Bariatric Surgery Mexico | Gastric Banding | Sleeve Gastrectomy | Gastric ByPass | Lap Band | Vertical Gastrectomy | Weight Loss Surgery | Weight Loss Procedure | Cosmetic Surgery Mexico | Tummy Tuck | LipoSculpture | Gastric Band | Mexicali, Mexico Welcome to Mexicali Obesity Solutions! Dr. Marco Sarinana, Endoscopic and Bariatric Surgeon in Mexicali Mexico, performs a variety of obesity weight loss surgery to aid long-term weight loss treatments.  He is an accomplished gastric bypass surgeon with significant experience in gastric band surgery, gastric bypass surgery, mini gastric bypass surgery, and gastric sleeve surgery. Individuals with a BMI of 35 or more with obesity-related health problems may be considered candidates for weight-loss surgeries. Dr. Marco Sarinana performs following procedures: Gastric Band Surgery Gastric Bypass Surgery Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Sleeve Surgery Lab Band Surgery Laparoscopic Surgery Bariatric Surgery Gastric Balloon Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding System Tummy Tuck & Liposculpture Dr. Marco Sariñana performs gastric banding surgeries, gastric sleeve and other surgical weight-loss techniques and procedures in order to help patients achieve long-term weight loss results. Dr. Marco Sariñana was a Faculty Member of Medicine in Mexicali from 1994 to 2000 and specialized in general surgery at the General Surgery Hospital General de Zacatecas SSA from 2003 to 2005. Dr. Sariñana has attended multiple conferences and courses provided and sponsored by international bariatric surgeon organizations to stay abreast of new techniques and procedures in bariatric surgery. With training and continuing education from such facilities as the Inter-American Heart Foundation , the Arizona Health Sciences Center in Mexicali, the National Congress of General Surgery in Veracruz, and refresher courses in general surgery, surgical procedures of the colon, and workshops in stapling surgeries, Dr. Marco Sariñana offers patients from around the world the expertise and quality in bariatric surgery and sleeve gastrectomy procedures in Mexico that is expected and deserved. Mexicali Obesity Solutions Clinic The clinic is located in Mexicali Mexico and offers bariatric surgical procedures for both restrictive and malabsorptive bariatric surgery techniques. Mexicali Obesity Solutions is experienced in gastric lap band procedures, one of the newest and least invasive surgical techniques for bariatric surgical procedures, as well as gastric bypass, gastric banding, vertical gastrectomy procedures and post-op dietary planning for weight-loss surgery patients. The facility offers packages that include free transportation from the airport to the hotel and hospital and return, pre-op tests, nutritional evaluations, psychological evaluations, the surgical procedure and staff support. Fees also include hospital and surgeon's fees and anesthesiologist fees. Obesity - Why is it a disease? Obesity is considered as the epidemic problem of the 21st Century. Statistics say that an obese person has 12 times more probability to die than a healthy person. Many present symptoms like heavy snoring, sleep apnea (no breathing during your sleep) or reflux disease. Others could have the Pickwick syndrome which occurs by low lung ventilation because of a heavy thorax, the person can fell asleep just by sitting which is very dangerous while driving. Other known risks are heart attacks or strokes. It is difficult to establish a good relationship in society and between couples because of low self esteem. Also they suffer of more infertility and women have more menstrual problems and more breast and uterus cancer risk. Obesity Weight Loss Sugery Advantages Besides loosing weight, there is an improvement on diseases that keep a relation with obese people like reflux, apnea, snoring, high blood pressure, dyslipidemias, diabetes or osteoarticular problems. In many cases, the use of medication for these diseases is totally suspended. Mexicali Obesity Solutions offers financial support through MedChoice. MedChoice Offers: Credit Limits from $500 to $25,000*o.a.c. Low Monthly Payments Online Account Info & Bill Pay. Primary & Secondary Finance Programs! Please Click Here to request more information from Mexicali Obesity Solution about Gastric Bypass Surgery Costs. Center Details What is Obesity? The health of millions of people worldwide is being threatened by an obesity epidemic. Only in the United States, an estimated 97 million adults are overweight or obese. That is 55% of the American adult population. Despite the growing obesity awareness, there has been a considerable increase in the number of seriously overweight, or severely obese, people all over the world. Obesity, Its Health Risks, and Common Weight-Loss Methods Obesity is an excess of total body fat, which results from caloric intake that exceeds energy usage. The most common measurement for obesity is Body Mass Index (BMI). BMI is calculated by dividing body weight (lb.) by height in inches squared and multiplying that amount by 704.5. The metric calculation for BMI is kg/m 2. While BMI does not actually measure body fat,it tends to correlate well with the degree of obesity. Thus it should not be used alone for diagnosis, but can be useful as a general guideline. Morbid obesity may considerably reduce life expectancy and is associated with an increased risk of developing conditions or diseases such as diabetes, stroke, respiratory problems, sleep apnea, hypertension and cancer. Sufficient weight loss is important for improving your health, reducing your risk of developing associated conditions and enhancing your overall quality of life. Millions of people turn to diet, fitness and medication first to treat their obesity. However, the National Institutes of Health report that 90% of the people who participate in diets and weight-loss programs do not lose significant and sustained weight. If non-surgical methods have not helped you lose weight and keep it off, you still have another option. Studies demonstrate that weight-loss surgery, as compared to non-surgical treatments, yields the longest period of sustained weight loss in patients who have failed other therapies. Financial Support; MedChoice Offers: Credit Limits from $500 to $25,000*o.a.c. Low Monthly Payments No Pre-Payment Penalties Deferred-Interest Plans for 3, 6, or 12 Months! Online Account Info & Bill Pay. Primary & Secondary Finance Programs! Authorized User Feature which allows your Family or Friends to apply for you. To maximize ALL approval options for your treatment please complete the follow steps: Call 800-358-8980 (Option 1) Identify Provider ID # 16915-Mexicali Obesity Solutions Receive an answer in minutes. Please Click Here to request more information from Mexicali Obesity Solution. Treatments & Prices Bariatric Surgery procedures Basically it's two kind of procedures, restrictive and malabsorptive. Restrictive and malabsorptive. Restrictive consists on reducing the stomach volume to receive less food and calories. Malabsorptive means that the food in the digestive tract is going to jump or bypass a portion of intestine to absorbe less calories. RESTRICTIVE Gastric Banding Also known as Lap Band. It consists on making less reservoir volume by putting a adjustable band around the stomach, it's inflated and regulated with water through a port that is under the skin. Advantages- It's reversible (it can be extracted without modifying the digestive tract). It's no contraindicated during pregnacy. Sleeve Gastrectomy Reduces the stomach volume by resection. The stomach takes a form of a long tube. MALABSORPTIVE Gastric ByPass Procedure wich combines malabsorptive and restrictive procedures. It consists on jumping or bypassing the first portion of intestinal trac and making a little stomach pouch. Advantages- Efective in sweet eaters. It doesn't need posterior adjustments Indicated in patients with diabetes melitus 2 and/or reflux. LAP BAND The Lap Band "Adjustable Gastric Banding System" is the newest and the only Adjustable and Reversible surgical treatment for morbid obesity in the United States, It induces weight loss by reducing the capacity of the stomach, which restricts the amount of food that can be consumed. This minimally invasive surgical procedure eliminates the need for drastic stomach stapling and by-pass, for normal digestion. The newest and least invasive surgical technique is the Lap Band system. The band is placed laparoscopically (or using "keyhole" surgery) around the upper part of the stomach thus dividing the stomach in two parts, this creates a new small stomach pouch and leaves the larger part of the stomach below the band so the food storage area in the stomach is reduced, and the pouch above the band can hold only a small amount of food. The band also controls the stoma (stomach outlet) between the two parts of the stomach, the size of the stoma regulates the flow of the food from the upper to the lower part of the stomach. When the stoma is smaller, you feel full sooner and have a feeling of satiety so you are not hungry. The Lap Band system is a silicone elastomer ring designed to be placed around the upper part of the stomach and filled with saline on the inner surface. Vertical Gastrectomy procedure Also called vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy, vertical gastroplasty, Greater Curvature Gastrectomy, Parietal Gastrectomy, Gastric Reduction and even Vertical Gastroplasty is performed by approximately 18 surgeons worldwide. The originally procedure, conceived in England , was called The Magenstrasse and Mill Operation. It generates weight loss by restricting the amount of food that can be eaten (removal of stomach or vertical gastrectomy) without any bypass of the intestines or malabsorption. The stomach pouch is usually made smaller than the pouch used in the Duodenal Switch. High BMI patients (BMI > 50-60): In America and Germany , this procedure was first performed laparoscopically in very high BMI patients to try to reduce the overall risk of weight loss surgery. Once a patients BMI goes above 60Kg/M2, it is increasingly difficult to perform a Roux en Y gastric bypass or a Duodenal Switch laparoscopically. In addition, a Roux en Y gastric bypass tends to yield inadequate weight loss for patients with a BMI greater than 60Kg/M2. The Duodenal Switch is very effective for high BMI patients but unfortunately it can also be quite risky and may by safer if done open. The Vertical Gastrectomy is a reasonable solution to this problem. It can usually be done laparoscopically in patients weighing over 500 pounds. The stomach restriction that occurs allows these patients to lose more than 100 pounds and in many patients more than 200 pounds. This weight loss allows significant improvement in health and effectively "downstages" a patient to a lower risk group. Once the patients BMI is lower (35-40) they can return to the operating room for the "second stage" of the procedure, which can either be the Duodenal Switch, Roux en Y gastric bypass or even a LapBand®. Currently, results of the second stage are very limited. Low BMI patients (BMI 35-45 Kg/M2): This procedure was also started in England over 5 years ago as a stand alone weight loss procedure for anyone with a BMI greater than 35 Kg/M2 (Johnston D. Obesity Surg 2003; 13:10 -16). It proved to be quite safe and quite effective even at 5 years. 10% of the patients did fail to achieve a BMI below 35 at 5 years and these tended to be the heavier patients. The same ones we would expect to go through a second stage as noted above. Low BMI individuals who should consider this procedure include: Those who are concerned about the potential long term side effects of an intestinal bypass such as intestinal obstruction, ulcers, anemia, osteoporosis, protein deficiency and vitamin deficiency. Those who are considering a LapBand but are concerned about a foreign body. Those who have other medical problems that prevent them from having weight loss surgery such as anemia, Crohn's disease, extensive prior surgery, and other complex medical cond People who need to take anti-inflammatory medications may also want to consider this. Usually, these medications need to be avoided after a gastric bypass because the risk of ulcer is higher. Vertical Gastrectomy: How it Works This procedure generates weight loss solely through gastric restriction (reduced stomach volume). The stomach is restricted by dividing it vertically and removing more than 85% of it. This part of the procedure is not reversible. The stomach that remains is shaped like a banana and measures from 2-5 ounces (60-150cc) depending on the surgeon performing the procedure. The nerves to the stomach and the outlet valve (pylorus) remain intact with the idea of preserving the functions of the stomach while reducing the volume. By comparison, in a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, the stomach is divided, not removed, and the pylorus is excluded. The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass stomach can be reconnected (reversed) if necessary. Note that there is no intestinal bypass with this procedure, only stomach reduction. Advantages of the Vertical Gastrectomy Weight Loss Surgery The stomach is reduced in volume but tends to function normally so most food items can be consumed, albeit in small amounts. Eliminates the portion of the stomach that produces the hormones that stimulates hunger (Ghrelin). No dumping syndrome because the pylorus is preserved. Minimizes the chance of an ulcer occurring. By avoiding the intestinal bypass, the chance of intestinal obstruction (blockage), anemia, osteoporosis, protein deficiency and vitamin deficiency are almost eliminated. Very effective as a first stage procedure for high BMI patients (BMI>55 kg/m 2 ). Limited results appear promising as a single stage procedure for low BMI patients (BMI 35-45 kg/m 2 ). Appealing option for people with existing anemia, Crohn's disease and numerous other conditions that make them too high risk for intestinal bypass procedures. Can be done laparoscopically in patients weighing over 500 pounds. Disadvantages of the Vertical Gastrectomy Weight Loss Surgery Potential for inadequate weight loss or weight regain. While this is true for all procedures, it is theoretically more possible with procedures that do not have an intestinal bypass. Higher BMI patients will most likely need to have a second stage procedureHigher BMI patients will most likely need to have a second stage procedure later to help lose the rest of the weight. Two stages may ultimately be safer and more effective than one operation for high BMI patients. This is an active point of discussion for bariatric surgeons. Soft calories such as ice cream, milk shakes, etc can be absorbed and may slow weight loss. This procedure does involve stomach stapling and therefore leaks and other complications related to stapling may occur. Because the stomach is removed, it is not reversible. It can be converted to almost any other weight loss procedure. Considered investigational by some surgeons and insurance companies. Vertical Gastrectomy: Risks and Complications As with any surgery, there can be complications. This list can include: Deep vein thrombophlebitis 0.5% Non-fatal pulmonary embolus 0.5% Pneumonia 0.2% Acute respiratory distress syndrome 0.25% Splenectomy 0.5% Gastric leak and fistula 1.0% Postoperative bleeding 0.5% Small bowel obstruction 0.0% Death 0.25% Post-Op Dietary Plan for Vertical Gastrectomy Weight-Loss Surgery Patients As with all surgical weight-loss programs, it is imperative that VG patients adhere to a strict postoperative diet. Patients must stick to a liquid-based diet for 2 weeks after surgery; 4-6 weeks after the operation, patients graduate to a 600-800 calorie/ day solid diet. Once goal weight is achieved, usually 1-2 years after surgery, most patients can consume about 1000-1200 calories per day. Long-Term Weight-Loss Results On average, patients who undergo Vertical Gastrectomy surgery experience a 60-80% loss of excess weight. Consider VG Weight-Loss Surgery To gain a better understanding of your personal weight-loss needs, please use our BMI to determine your current Body Mass Index. COSMETIC SURGERY COSMETIC SURGERY Tummy Tuck Abdominoplasty, known more commonly as a "tummy tuck," is a major surgical procedure to remove excess skin and fat from the middle and lower abdomen. It also tightens the muscles of the abdominal wall. The procedure can dramatically reduce the appearance of a protruding abdomen. But bear in mind, it does produce a permanent scar, which, depending on the extent of the original problem and the surgery required to correct it, can extend from hip to hip. If you're considering abdominoplasty, this will give you a basic understanding of the procedure-when it can help, how it's performed, and what results you can expect. Please ask your surgeon about anything you don't understand. LipoSculpture Liposuction has evolved a great deal over the past 7 years and is now an extremely safe procedure with minimal downtime. The latest advances in liposuction have created the Tumescent LipoSculpture method, designed for a safer and more precise body sculpting procedure. By using only a local anesthetic, this procedure has virtually eliminated the downtime and high risks commonly associated with traditional liposuction. Plus, the procedure uses finer instruments for a more accurate and controlled sculpting. This highly precise procedure allows us to target specific areas with accuracy and control never before possible. This is a complementary treatment for obesity that successfully removes 90% of the fat deposits from hips (saddlebags), buttocks, back of thighs, knees, legs, back of arms, and abdomen. It can actually eliminate cellulite. The advantage of ultrasonic over conventional liposuction is that it removes a greater amount of fat. OUR PACKAGE Application process is fast, simple & confidential Quick approval time No down payment required Qualified * Co-Signers accepted Extensive array of loan option with interest rates ranging from 9.99% - 21.9% Loans from $1,000-$25,000 Fixed term loans up to 60 months Friendly and reliable customer service support before surgery date and financing must check prices of the procedure.. Our Gastric Band Packages include: Round Trip Air Fare (optional) If not desirable you can opt for a package without the Air Fare. Free transportation (from the airport to the hotel and hospital and back to the airport) Pre-Operatory Tests Nutritional Evaluation Psychological Evaluation Gastric Band Procedure Hospital Fees Surgeons' Fees Anesthesiologist Fees This Package includes a discount percentage on any surgery you may have with us after this first procedure, as well as for your family. Please Click Here to request more information from Mexicali Obesity Solution. Qualifications, Accreditations & Certifications Marco Antonio Sariñana Guridi Education 1994-2000 Faculty of Medicine of Mexicali 2000-01 Internado revolving pregrado 30 clinics, 31 and 16 of the IMSS Mexicali. 2001-02 Social Service C.S. The Rancho Pedregosa, Ensenada, B.C. Jurisdiction 3. 2003-05 the 1st, 2nd and 3rd and 4th years of specialization in General Surgery Hospital General de Zacatecas. SSA. Courses and conferences: ATLS September 22, 2001 Mexicali B.C. U.A.B.C. XVI Course in preparation for the Review of the National Medical Residencias August 5 to September 14, 2002. U.A.N.L. Monterrey N.L. ACLS in January 2003, assistance and approval of course supported by the Inter-American Heart Foundation, Arizona Health Science Center, Mexicali, BC 30 credit hours. 3-8 November 2003 wizard XXVII National Congress of General Surgery, "Dr. Luis Ize Lamache" Veracruz, Ver 3 to 8 November 2003 during transcongreso Assistant Surgical Physiopathology of the activities conducted during the National Congress of General Surgery. Veracruz, Ver July 5 to August 5 at the intensive care of General Surgery carried out in National Medical Center "November 20" ISSSTE. Mexico D.F. duration of 320 hours. curricular value 6 points. From October 31 to November 5, 2004 Assistance XXVIII National Congress of Surgery held in Poliforum Leon, Leon, Gto. 24 hours worth of curriculum. Presentation of a case "infrarenal aortic aneurysm broken content Placing bifurcated Dacron graft, Days Medical Faculty of Medicine UAZ April 2005. Zacatecas, Zac. From 24 to 26 January 2005 to assist III Refresher Course in General Surgery performed in the auditorium of INCMNSZ. 26 to 28 January 2005 to assist III Refresher Course in the colon, rectum and anus, which was held in the auditorium of INCMNSZ. 29, September 30 and October 1, 2005 workshop to assist stapling surgery carried out in the regional conference of the general surgery AMCG, as well as assistance to the course. From October 31 to November 5, 2005 Assistance XXIX National Congress of Surgery held in the city of Merida, Yucatan, presented as the author of 2 posters, Surgical treatment of grade IV renal trauma, presentation of two cases and infrarenal aortic aneurysm, presenting a case. October and November of 2005 basic course of laparoscopic surgery at the regional hospital "October 1" of the ISSSTE. Working as an author of self-VASCULAR TRAUMA IN EXTREMITIES IN GENERAL HOSPITAL ZACATECAS, at medical conferences held from 13 to 17 March 2006, and QUIRIRGICO MANAGEMENT OF GRADE IV RENAL INJURY, presentation of a case, filed in the same course. Pre-course of bariatric surgery performed at the XXX International Congress of general surgery in Acapulco Gro. From October 29 to November 3, 2006, as well as assistance to the congress. Introduction of free labor EXTREMITIES IN VASCULAR TRAUMA IN THE GENERAL HOSPITAL ZACATECAS. XXX international congress in general surgery. Diploma in basic ultrasound done in the general hospital of zacatecas July 29 to 11 November 2006. Advanced Diploma of laparoscopic surgery and obesity surgery performed in the city of Tijuana BC from February 26 to June 15, 2007, lasting 672 hours. Training course on gastric band 8,9,10 March 2007 in the city of Tijuana BC International Congress of Endoscopic surgery April 30 to May 4, 2007 held in the city of Veracruz. DIAGNOSTIC ENDOSCOPY COURSE WORKSHOP FOR SURGEON GENERAL OF APRIL 30 TO 20 MAY 2007 Member of the Mexican Association of Endoscopic surgery. Surgery metabolic international course held in the city of Tijuana BC 12 and June 13, 2007. Course gastric bypass (gastric bypass) performed on 1.2 and 7 July 2007 in the city of Ensenada BC Certification courses in gastric band placement and balloon intragastrico carried out in the city of Guadalajara Jalisco 23 to August 25 2007. Mexican member of endoscopic surgery and surgical and metabolic obesity Please Click Here to request more information from Mexicali Obesity Solution. Testimonials Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico: Only the Best at Mexicali Obesity Solutions by Dr. Marco Sariñana | Mexicali Obesity Surgery Mexicali Obesity Solutions offers treatment and procedures for a variety of obesity and bariatric needs, including but not limited to sleeve gastrectomy, laparoscopic surgery, gastric balloon, adjustable gastric banding, and other weight loss procedures. Gastric Sleeve Operation in Mexico by MARCO A. SARIÑANA GURIDI | Mexicali Obesity Solutions The vertical gastrectomy in gastric sleeve (also known as gastric sleeve or gastrectomy in sleeve) operations is a relatively new procedure that produces weight reduction by diminishing the amount of food that can be eaten in one sitting. Please Click Here to request more information from Mexicali Obesity Solution. Awards & Media Coverage Local Attractions PlacidWay.com provides information and travel related services.  We do not provide health care services.  We provide information solely for informational purposes and do not endorse any particular health care provider or facility or any particular health care service or treatment.  We are not affiliated with any health care provider or service and we are not responsible for any health care service.  Please consult with your own domestic licensed health care provider before seeking the services of any health care provider you learn about via our site. Related Medical Tourism Articles • Obesity: A Growing Problem • Gastric Sleeve Operation in Mexico • Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico: Only the Best at Mexicali Obesity Solutions • One Woman's Journey Toward Weight Loss • PlacidWay and Mexicali Obesity Solutions Offer Hope • Gastrointestinal Metabolic Surgery Used to Treat Diabetes In Obesity Cases • Focus on Endoscopic Bariatric Surgery • A Growing Problem: Teen Obesity • Latin American Destinations: Focus on Obesity and Bariatric Surgeries • The Basics Regarding Weight Loss Surgery • Want To Lose Your Weight in Two Weeks • Mexicali Obesity Solutions Offers Long-Term Weight Loss Benefits • An In-Depth Look into Bariatric Surgery • Affordable Bariatric Surgery at Mexicali Obesity Solutions • Obesity Surgery in Mexico Offers the Latest in Weight Loss Treatments and Procedures • San Diego Woman Ecstatic About Her Weight Loss Surgery in Mexicali • Obesity Procedures Highlights Qualifications of Mexican Obesity Surgeons Search Keywords Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Latin America , Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Mexico ,Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico, Gastric Banding Surgery Mexico in Mexico, Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico, Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery, Gastric Bypass Plastic Surgery in Mexico, Gastric Bypass Surgery Information in Mexico, Gastric Bypass Surgery Costs in Mexico, Laproscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery in Mexico, After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico, Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery, Gastric sleeve weight loss Surgery in Mexico, Gastric Sleeve Surgery Cost in Mexico, Gastric Sleeve Surgery Mexico, Bariatric Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico, Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico, Bariatric Weight Loss, Gastric Bypass Surgery Cost, Surgical Weight Loss, Stomach Weight Loss Surgery, Mexicali, Mexico No reviews yet Write a review Our Packages Affordable Gastric Balloon Surgery in Mexico for $3,300 Affordable Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico for $6,000 Anal Fistula and Fissures Surgery in Mexico Cosmetic Surgery in Mexicali Find the Best, Affordable Gastric Bypass at Mexicali Obesity Solutions Gastric Bypass Surgery Package in Mexico for $ 9,500 Hemorrhoids Treatment  in Mexico Hernia Repair Treatment in Mexico Laparoscopic Antireflux Surgery in Mexico Laparoscopic GallBladder Removal Surgery in Mexico Metabolic Surgery Package from $7500 Safest way to lose those unwanted pounds!!! Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery for $ 9,500 USD Healthcare Features Laparoscopic Surgery Obesity/Bariatric Surgery Weight Loss Program Follow Us On: Treatment: Alternative Medicine Treatment Abroad | Anti-Aging Treatment Abroad | Ayurveda Treatment Abroad | Cancer Treatment Abroad | Chronic Diseases Treatment Abroad | Cosmetic/Plastic Surgery Treatment Abroad | Dentistry Treatment Abroad | Detox Treatment Abroad | ENT Treatment Abroad | Executive Healthcheck Treatment Abroad | Eye/Lasik Care Treatment Abroad | Fertility Treatment Abroad | Gynecology Treatment Abroad | Heart Care/Surgery Treatment Abroad | Infertility | IVF Treatment Abroad | Laparoscopic Surgery Treatment Abroad | Medical Spa Treatment Abroad | Neurology Treatment Abroad | Obesity/Bariatric Surgery Treatment Abroad | Orthopedic/Knee Surgery Treatment Abroad | Pediatric Treatment Abroad | Rehabilitation Treatment Abroad | Skin Care Treatment Abroad | Spine Care | Surgery Treatment Abroad | Sports Medicine Treatment Abroad | Stem Cell Therapy Treatment Abroad | Urology Treatment Abroad | Vascular Surgery Treatment Abroad | Yoga/Meditation Treatment Abroad | PlacidWay: Home | About Us | F.A.Q | Site Map | Contact Us Find a Provider: Browse by Treatment | Browse by Destination ©PlacidWay, LLC 2007 - 2012. All Rights Reserved Resources: Articles/Press Releases | Destinations | Events | Industry News | Medical Tourism Blog | Travel Planning | Treatments | Videos For Providers: Marketing Programs | Affiliate Program | Submit Your Listing | Consulting Services Other Links: Health S