
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 16:13:56 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture And Alternative Medicines Toronto Acupuncture and Alternative Medicine Toronto Acupuncture and alternative medicine in Toronto from Pacific Wellness. Acupuncture, shiatsu, RMT massage, naturopathy, reflexology and other alternative modalities for wellness, weight loss, fertility, pain control. No 
			  Payment, No 
			  Paperwork, No
			  Hassle Direct
            insurance billing available for MASSAGE SHIATSU NATUROPATHY ACUPUNCTURE REFLEXOLOGY If
            you have employee benefits, we may be able to bill your insurance
            company directly for your treatments. Click here for details New Patient Information Contact Us 416-929-6958 Online Patient Forms General Questionnaire Diet/Lifestyle Questionnaire Insurance and Payment Information Out of Town Patient Information Subscribe to the Pacific Wellness Newsletter Employment Combining 
          state of the art technology with a blend of natural, traditional oriental therapies, Pacific Wellness offers many top-rated alternative medicine treatments, 
          including: acupuncture , shiatsu , massage , naturopathic medicine , reflexology , biofeedback , naturopathy , nutrition consultation , weight-loss & nutrition programs , back pain treatments , 
          and natural fertility programs . Acupuncture Shiatsu Massage Massage Therapy Naturopathic Medicine Appointments & Hours Nutrition Consultation Reflexology Biofeedback Special Therapies Success Stories Low back pain/Sciatica Quit Smoking Weight Control Infertility Migraine Headaches Eczema The ART and SCIENCE OF Acupuncture Read the history of acupuncture, find the latest anthropological 
          discoveries on acupuncture use, view a microscopic photo of an acupuncture 
          needle, learn how acupuncture can restore your health, and examine the 
          scientific explanation why painless Japanese acupuncture works. MORE Specialty  Clinics and Therapies Anxiety,       Sleep, and Stress Clinic by Japanese Acupuncturists Fertility Optimization       Clinic by Japanese       Acupuncturists Headache       and Migraine Clinic by Japanese       Acupuncturists Combined       Therapeutic Massage Treatments (RMT Massage, Certified Reflexology, Certified       Shiatsu) by Registered       Massage Therapists (RMT) Sports Injury and Conditioning Clininc by Japanese Acupuncturists Research Center Review Dr. Tanaka's previous research and most recent findings and 
          advancements. MORE Commonly Treated Health Conditions Here is a selected list of health concerns commonly treated by our experienced Acupuncturists, Massage Therapists, and Naturopathic Doctors in our Toronto clinic. To view a full list of the treatments we offer (migraine headaches, allergies, digestive problems, work related pain and much more) click here Low Back Pain What are the causes and treatment of back and spinal disk injuries: There is a combination of both well-known and lesser-known factors involved. MORE Sports Injury A 
          growing number of professional and top amateur athletes visit Pacific 
          Wellness for the treatment of injuries and to help optimize their conditioning. MORE Natural Weight 
          Control and Body Shaping Our program is designed to help you burn fat while 
          maintaining lean body mass. A unique blend of ancient healing techniques with the latest 
          innovations in applied physiology and nutritional science provides. MORE Headache 
          and Migraine Is 
          migraine headache part of a healing reaction? MORE Infertility Are 
          there any natural fertility approaches to enhancing my chances of becoming pregnant? MORE There are many more conditions that our alternative and naturopathic therapy experts may be able to help you with. Click Here for a list of conditions we treat What's New Click Here for our Acupuncture & Alternative Medicine News Blog Pacific Wellness is 20 Years Old Research: Does Drinking Water Help People Lose Weight? Massage Coverage and Booking Click here for More Quitting Cigarettes Dr. Tanaka's program is designed to help you overcome the powerful "side effects" of nicotine withdrawal. MORE Can your multi-vitamin pass the test? With so many brands and ingredients to choose from, what's best for me? TAKE THE TEST Gift of Touch Gift Certificates Available for Massage Therapy Call 416-929-6958 Is your weight-loss program good?

			

		Are you on some fad diet or trying out the latest weight-loss program? This test will help you determine whether you are losing weight properly. TAKE THE TEST Breathing Training Music CDs by Tim H Tanaka, Ph.D. Available at Amazon and many other stores, or contact us Are you tired? Finding it difficult to concentrate? The accumulation of toxic substances in your body will produce various symptoms.

			Try our Toxicity Screening Questionnaire TAKE THE TEST Gastrointestinal Health Impacts Your Entire Body Immune Function Energy Level Skin Weight Mood ..etc. Discover how you can protect yourself. MORE Uncover Your Composition Bioimpedance analysis is a measuring technique that reveals your body's composition of fat, muscle and water. MORE Other treatments  & alternative services: Biofeedback Nutrition Counseling Mixed Massage Email this to a friend Newsletters Email Us Health Consultation home &nbsp|&nbsp privacy policy &nbsp|&nbsp disclaimers &nbsp|&nbsp employment &nbsp|&nbsp site map &nbsp|&nbsp contact us &nbsp|&nbsp link to us The Pacific Wellness Institute 80 Bloor St. West, Suite 1100, Toronto, ON M5S-2V1, Canada 416-929-6958 Copyright © 2001-2009 The Pacific Wellness Institute. All Rights Reserved. Important Copyright Notice Find us online using the following search words: Acupuncture and alternative   medicine in Toronto from Pacific Wellness. Acupuncture, shiatsu, RMT   massage, naturopathy, reflexology and other alternative moda