Vary: Accept-Encoding

EnergyWave - Nutritional Dietary Supplements, Alternative Therapy Treatment, Holistic Healing Products, Information on Herbal Vitamin & Mineral Supplements Leader in "Probiotic Powered Nutrients™" since 1992 Your source for innovative alternative therapies and dispenser of leading 
                      edge nutrients. Order now on line Self Help About vitamins, minerals & herbs What ails you? Alternative therapies Consumerism Environmental issues Life style survival issues Finding professionals Resources Sitemap Site Use Statement Turtle Info Contact Us Links Link Partners Quirky things we find interesting English Español Français Deutsch Greek Japanese News Letter An Ancient   Spice, Cinnamon, Improves Glucose and Lipid Levels NNFA Today,   Volume 18, No. 9/September 2004 Persons with type 2 diabetes have an   incidence of cardiovascular disease that is two-to four-fold than that of   persons without this disease.  The role of diet in the prevention and treatment   of diabetes and cardiovascular disease is clear; however, the specific dietary   components involved are not.  This article discusses the effects of cinnamon   consumption on blood glucose and lipid concentration.  It has been postulated   that spices may benefit patients with type 2 diabetes.  Cinnamon ( Cinnamomum   spp.) , cloves For more information on nutrients that are helpful to   diabetics see Diabetiks food   supplement. Pain   may be related to Vitamin D Deficiency "Researchers found that 93   percent of 150 participants who complained of nonspecific body aches were   vitamin D deficient.."  Do you hurt all over? Researchers at the University of   Minnesota say you might feel better if you drank more milk and enjoyed a bit   more sunshine. By Tom   Majeski, Pioneer Press 12-9-3. The discovery is important because as   many as 20 percent of U.S. adults
                            experience chronic pain. Of those, about   nine in 10 report some degree of
                            long- or short-term disability. Iron Beats Fatigue   in Women Non-anaemic women with   unexplained fatigue may benefit from iron supplementation, according to a study   published in the British Medical Journal (2003, vol.326:1124).    Researchers randomly assigned 136 women between the ages of 18-55 either 80   milligrams of iron or placebo daily for four weeks.  Fatigue levels were similar   in both groups at the start of the study.  At the end of one month, the level of   fatigue decreased 29 percent in the group taking iron compared with a 13 percent   decrease in the placebo group.  The researchers added that this effect may,   however, be restricted to women with low or borderline blood concentrations of   iron.  (Note we do not include iron in our formulas.  If you do need iron, it is   best to take it between meals with a cracker, because it impedes the absorption   of other nutrients.) Probiotics Help Destroy Stomach   Invader Taking a probiotics supplement improved a conventional   therapy’s ability to eradicate Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) , a   bacteria that causes peptic ulcers and stomach cancer.  The report was published   in the September issue of Alimentary Pharmacology & Therapeutics (vol.  16, No.  9:  1669-1675).  One hundred sixty H. pylori- infected   subjects were randomly put on a conventional antibiotic therapy or the therapy   combined with yogurt supplements containing live lactobacilli and   bifidobacteria, two probiotics.  After eight weeks, the group taking the   yogurt-antibiotic combination had a somewhat higher rate of H. pylori eradication than the antibiotic-only group.  The findings suggest that   taking probiotics supplements can help people better tolerate the conventional   treatment. (Note probiotics are important ingredients in our PowerVites , PowerMate , Diabetiks , PowerSleep and Sunnie .) Gingko Reduces Severity of   Altitude Sickness Taking standardized preparations of gingko biloba one   day prior to rapid exposure to moderate or high altitudes can safely reduce the   severity of acute mountain sickness (AMS), also known as altitude sickness.  A   study published in the November 1, 2002 issue of High Altitude Medicine and   Biology (vol. 3, No. 1: 29-37) examined 26 participants in Hawaii.  They   received 180 milligrams of either gingko or placebo 24 hours before being driven   from sea level to the peak of Mauna Kea (13, 650 feet).  While the gingko group   did not experience a reduction in frequency of AMS, they did have much less   severe AMS.  In addition, the gingko group did not experience the severe side   effects associated with conventional preventative treatments (Diamox®-a diuretic   and Decadron®-a steroid).    (Note Gingko is included in our PowerMate and Sunnie formulas) Should you   really be afraid of the SARS (a Corona Virus).  Leonard G.   Horowitz, D.M.D., M.A., M.P.H makes a case for treating it as any other serious   flu.  Take his SARS Quiz: to   Test Your Level of Intelligence If you have a question you would like answered here just e-mail our webmaster   . Site Use Statement | Sitemap | Links | Request Information Copyright © 2007 The Green Turtle Bay Vitamin Co. All rights 