Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Herbs for the Nervous System - Planet Botanic Canada Nervous System Helpers Here are some herbal 
		remedies that have been used as Nervous System helpers throughout 
		history. Scroll down to find your ailment. Click on 'Fact  Sheet' for 
		more information. Depression Chocolate (Theobroma cacao) Part used: Seed History: Used by Central Americans for 
		depression Science: Contains chemicals that increase 
		sense of well being Practitioners opinion: Useful in dieting, 
		depression, and chocolate bingeing Directions: Tincture (1:5, 25% alcohol): 
		2.5 ml three times daily Have you ever noticed how eating a 
		chocolate bar makes you feel happier, a little less depressed? This is 
		because chocolate contains natural antidepressants. It is ideal for 
		those that are really feeling down and blue, those on weight loss 
		programs, and those trying to wean themselves off chocolate. FACT SHEET Depression / Burnout Damiana (Turnera diffusa) Part used: Leaf History: Used by Native Americans for 
		nervous exhaustion Science: Contains essential oils thought 
		to improve nervous function Practitioners opinion: Extremely 
		effective when used for periods of time Directions: Tincture (1:5, 60% alcohol): 
		2.5 ml three times daily  Tablets: 2-200mg tablets 3 times daily. Damiana is known as an aphrodisiac, but, 
		in fact, its primary use is as a tonic for the nerves. Damiana acts to 
		support and build up the nerves so that one is better able to deal with 
		a demanding schedule. A nerve tonic for people who are burned out, those 
		who have been keeping a difficult schedule too long and have simply run 
		out of steam. FACT SHEET Migraine Relief Feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) Part used: Aerial parts History: A traditional migraine cure Science: Clinical trials have proved its 
		efficacy in migraine Practitioners opinion: One of the few 
		medicines that actually works with migraine Directions: Tincture (2:5, 25% alcohol): 
		40 drops each morning Having a migraine is a special form of 
		hell that only a migraine sufferer knows. Amazingly, with the daily use 
		of this herb many migraine sufferers have lived migraine free for years 
		on end. It works as long as it is used and therefore it is a long term 
		proposition. FACT SHEET Poor Memory Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba) Part used: Leaf extract History: Used in recent days for poor 
		memory Science: Proven to improve Alzheimer’s 
		Disease Practitioners opinion: Works in most 
		cases of senile dementia Directions: Tablets: 2 tablets 3 times 
		daily  Tincture (1:5, 25% alcohol): 2.5 ml twice daily Ginkgo is a really popular herbal 
		medicine and one that has received a lot of attention from the 
		scientific community. In America, people are using it in senility and 
		anti-senility programs and this seems reasonable. Research has shown 
		that over time it improves delivery of the blood to the brain. If you 
		are experiencing memory loss or fear memory loss, Ginkgo is a reasonable 
		choice. FACT SHEET Anxiety Kava Kava (Piper methysticum) Part used: Rhizome History: Chewed in the Pacific Islands 
		for relaxation Science: Kavalactones act as powerful 
		anxiety busters Practitioners opinion: Excellent option 
		for anxiety sufferers Directions: Tincture (1:5, 25% alcohol): 
		2.5 ml two times daily - Capsules: 500mg capsules daily This plant is native to the South East 
		Pacific and is traditionally chewed for its relaxing effect. In recent 
		days it has been used to excellent effect in a wide variety of anxiety 
		disorders. Clinical trials show it is as effective as chemical anxiety 
		drugs, minus the side effects. The underlying issues behind the anxiety 
		must be examined, but, while the process of self discovery is underway, 
		Kava Kava symptomatically relieves anxiety. FACT SHEET Anxiety Lavender (Lavandula officinalis) Part used: Flowers History: Ancient anti-agitation 
		medication Science: Contains powerful relaxant oils Practitioners opinion: An excellent and 
		mild remedy safe for adults and children Directions: Tincture (1:5, 45% alcohol): 
		2.5ml three times a day; Essential Oil: A drop or two rubbed on the 
		temples does wonders. It was an ancient practice to make herbal 
		'pillows' filled with calm-inducing herbs such as hops or lavender. This 
		is an excellent way to relax as well as to freshen a room. For lavender, 
		simply fill a small pillow case with lavender flowers and leave it on 
		your bed, near your regular pillow. Alternatively, you can rub a few 
		drops of the essential oil right on your pillow. For those people inclined to get 
		themselves into a tight ball of nerves, there could be no better remedy. 
		Whether the symptom is neck cramp or nervousness, lavender will bring on 
		a quiet sense of calm. Whether anxiety is the usual state of being or 
		something brought on by circumstance, the first relaxant to try is 
		lavender, taken internally and applied externally. FACT SHEET Insomnia Passion Vine (Passiflora incarnata) Part used: Plant History: Native American treatment for 
		insomnia and pain Science: Contains alkaloids active on the 
		nervous system Practitioners opinion: Excellent when 
		pain disturbs sleep Directions: Tincture (1:8, 25% alcohol): 
		5ml 30 minutes before bedtime  Tablets: 2-200mg tablets before bedtime Passion Vine is a North American plant 
		that was first used by the Native Americans to treat insomnia and pain. 
		It is recommended for people who cannot fall asleep and also for people 
		who are having trouble sleeping because of pain. FACT SHEET Depression St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perfolatum) Part used: Flowering plant History: Traditional European treatment 
		for depression Science: Contains hypericin a proven 
		antidepressant Practitioners opinion: Effective in mild 
		and moderate depression Directions: Tablets: 1-200mg tablet twice 
		daily - Tincture (1:5, 45% alcohol): 2.5ml two times daily - Juice: 10ml 
		twice daily with water before meals. St. John’s Wort is probably one of the 
		most well researched medicinal plants in the world. Trial after trial 
		has confirmed what the ancients knew; Saint John’s Wort relieves mild to 
		moderate depression. This is especially true if the depression is of the 
		seasonal variety, the kind which sets in as the days shorten and darken. 
		It works and does not have the unpleasant side effects that many of the 
		chemical antidepressants have. It takes upwards of six weeks to take 
		effect. FACT SHEET Mental Exhaustion Siberian Ginseng (Eleutherococcus 
		senticosus) Part used: Root & rhizome History: A traditional treatment for 
		exhaustion and debility Science: Contains steroids that increase 
		stamina and endurance Practitioners opinion: Excellent for 
		exhaustion following illness Directions: Tincture (1:5, 25% alcohol): 
		2.5 ml three times daily Similar in action to its Chinese relation 
		ginseng, Siberian Ginseng is safe for women and young men to use. When 
		mental exhaustion sets in after a hard time or an illness and 
		masquerades as ‘depression’, Siberian Ginseng is the ideal herbal 
		medicine to gently build the body and energy levels back up. It improves 
		health while specifically increasing energy. It should be used for a 
		month before the effects are felt. FACT 
		SHEET Anxiety / Insomnia Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) Part used: Root & rhizome History: Long used in Europe to calm 
		people down Science: Contains several relaxing 
		compounds Practitioners opinion: One of the most 
		widely prescribed relaxants Directions: Tincture (1:5, 25% alcohol): 
		For tenseness, restlessness and irritability, up to 2.5m three times 
		daily. As an aid to sleep 5-10 ml 30 minutes before bedtime. Juice: 10ml 
		twice daily with water before meals.  Capsules: 500mg capsules daily If thoughts of elevators, planes and 
		crowded underground trains are enough to set off a major anxiety attack, 
		it’s time to call in Valerian. A common European plant, Valerian is 
		ideal for those that suffer from anxiety. It is also perfect when 
		nervous exhaustion manifests as fearfulness, anxiety and general 
		nervousness. Valerian is known as an insomnia plant, ideal for the 
		person who develops insomnia when the pressure is on. It is also good 
		for people who fall asleep and wake up half an hour later to face a 
		night of staring at the ceiling. FACT 
		SHEET Endurance Medicine Oat Straw (Avena sativa) Part used: Whole flowering plant History: European classic used to treat 
		nervous collapse Science: Contains compounds similar to 
		those found in ginseng Practitioners’ opinion: Excellent 
		treatment for burnout Directions: Tincture (1:1, 25% alcohol): 
		2ml 3 times daily Oats are used to keep horses in prime 
		shape for racing. The tincture made of the whole plant is used to keep 
		contemporary people in the race. Modern life is hard, hectic, and 
		harried. Oat straw tincture can be used by those suffering from stress, 
		those teetering on the edge of burn out, or by those that have burned 
		out to reco