
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 17:45:27 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Office Chair Buying Guide: Ergonomic Chairs, Tips and Information Questions? Call Us Home Contact Us Policies Track Order 0 Items  |  Subtotal $0.00 Login | Register Big and Tall Chairs Heavy Duty Office Chairs Computer Chairs Conference Room Chairs Drafting Stools / Chairs Ergohuman Chair Ergonomic Office Chairs Executive Chairs Folding Chairs Office Guest Chairs Leather Office Chairs Mesh Office Chairs Modern Office Chairs Stacking Chairs Traditional Office Chairs Vinyl Office Chair Wood Office Chairs Computer Desks Corner Computer Desk Executive Office Desk Hutch Modern Office Desks Pencil Drawer L Shaped Desks Laptop Stand Metal Computer Desk U Shaped Office Desks Writing Desks Reception Chairs Bariatric Chairs Single Reception Chairs Reception Chairs with Arms Reception Chairs with Wheels Sled Base Chair Reception Club Chairs Airport Beam Seating Systems Office Reception Desks Office Reception Tables Lobby Coffee Tables Lobby End Tables Lobby Sofa Tables Office Sofas and Loveseats Lobby Room Sets Lobby Bench Seating Two Seater Sets Three Seater Sets Four Seater Sets Five Seater Sets Lobby Lounge Sets Conference Room Tables Drafting Tables Training Room Tables Adjustable Height Tables Electric Adjustable Desks Manual Adjustable Desks Adjustable Desk Base Only Adjustable Laptop Desks CPU - Computer Holders Office Desk Lamp Ergonomic Computer Keyboards Ergonomic Gel Products Ergonomic Mouse Products Footrests Laptop Desk Computer Keyboard Drawers Adjustable Keyboard Trays Monitor Arms Post Mount Monitor Arm Spring Mount Monitor Arms Wall Mount Monitor Arm Notebook Docking Stations Office Chairs Big and Tall Chairs Heavy Duty Office Chairs Computer Chairs Conference Room Chairs Drafting Stools / Chairs Ergohuman Chair Ergonomic Office Chairs Executive Chairs Folding Chairs Office Guest Chairs Leather Office Chairs Mesh Office Chairs Stacking Chairs Traditional Office Chairs Vinyl Office Chair Office Tables Conference Room Tables Drafting Tables Training Room Tables Ergonomic Furniture Adjustable Height Tables Electric Adjustable Desks Manual Adjustable Desks Adjustable Desk Base Only Adjustable Laptop Desks CPU - Computer Holders Office Desk Lamp Ergonomic Computer Keyboards Laptop Desk Computer Keyboard Drawers Adjustable Keyboard Trays Monitor Arms Post Mount Monitor Arm Spring Mount Monitor Arms Wall Mount Monitor Arm Notebook Docking Stations Reception Furniture Reception Chairs Bariatric Chairs Single Reception Chairs Reception Chairs with Arms Reception Chairs with Wheels Sled Base Chair Reception Club Chairs Airport Beam Seating Systems Office Reception Desks Office Reception Tables Lobby Coffee Tables Lobby End Tables Lobby Sofa Tables Office Sofas and Loveseats Lobby Room Sets Lobby Bench Seating Two Seater Sets Three Seater Sets Four Seater Sets Five Seater Sets Lobby Lounge Sets Office Desks Computer Desks Corner Computer Desk Executive Office Desk Modern Office Desks Pencil Drawer L Shaped Desks Metal Computer Desk U Shaped Office Desks Filing Cabinets & Storage Bookcase and Book Shelves Lateral Filing Cabinets Metal Storage Cabinet Mobile Filing Cabinet Vertical File Storage OUTLET STORE Manufacturers 3M Ergonomic Products Allseating / Nowseating Bestar Desks Boss Chairs Bush Furniture Cramer Seating ERA Products Global Office Furniture Highpoint HON Office Furniture Lesro Reception Furniture Mayline Office Furniture Nightingale Office Star Products Offices To Go OFM, Inc Raynor Office Chairs RightAngle Products Safco Valo by Dauphin Zuo Modern Questions? 877.271.5368 Mon - Fri 9am-6pm or Email Us Office Chair Buying Guide: Ergonomic Chairs, Tips and Information Office Chair Hazards One huge problem with  the   new age of work and technology is the damage caused by repetitive task    occupations often found in an office setting. More and more employees   are  spending the majority of their work day in the same office chair at the same office desks performing the same types of tasks over and over. Combine all this    time sitting with the time one spends in their car, at the dinner table   and on  the couch and an individual could be spending the majority of   their life  sitting. Sitting has the potential to cause very poor   postural habits. Without  proper chair support, extreme amounts of   pressure and stress can be placed on  numerous parts of the body. Lack of Lumbar Support The Lordotic  Curve is the   medical term for the lumbar region. This is the natural curve  found in   the lower back. Lack of support for the lumbar region results in over    compensation by other back muscles in an effort keep the back in a   proper  sitting position. Improper support of the lumbar region can   cause awkward  forward leaning, hunching and pain from an unnatural   position. Proper lumbar  support helps to alleviate the tension and   overexertion by the lower back  muscles reducing pain and tightness. Lack of Mobility Continuous  sitting or lying in the same   position can cause added stress to your back, neck  and shoulders. It   is very important to change positions often and if possible  do some   exercises to loosen your muscles and promote blood flow to your entire    body. The longer the stretching and exercise lasts the better, but even a   few  seconds is better than not moving around at all. Inadequate Armrests Armrests  that are poorly designed or that have no adjustability are often something to  avoid when looking for an ergonomic office chair .   Armrests that do not adjust cannot adapt  to different sized  users and   the different tasks that the chair will be used  for. Poorly positioned   armrests can cause awkward positions that result in pain  and tension   in the wrists, forearms, elbows, neck, shoulders and back. Chair Overuse It is important to determine how long you will be sitting in your office chair at a time to  decide which type of chair is best for you. Make sure   that the chairs you are looking at have an adequate rating for the   amount of time that you'll be spending in the chair. If you will be   seated for more than 4 or 5 hours at a time then it is recommended that   you use a padded seat and avoid any mesh office chairs that do not have a padded or foam filled seat. Sitting in a mesh office   chair without a padded seat for extended hours can put added pressure   on the tailbone which will result in pain over time. How to Find an Ergonomic Office Chair An  ergonomic office chair is the single most important piece of office furniture when  trying to create the most favorable working environment. If your   office chair  is ergonomically correct, you should feel optimal comfort   with no strain or  pressure on muscles, joints, or ligaments. A properly   designed chair with the  correct adjustments will provide the support   needed for the back, legs, arms  and buttocks. This support can reduce   fatigue and common stress caused by  continuous contact found with   repetitive task occupations. A chair that  provides proper support will   also help to promote blood flow. It is very  important to fully utilize   your ergonomic chair. An ergonomic chair does not  help if it is not   used properly. Below are some simple guidelines that be  followed to   ensure that you are maximizing the potential of your ergonomic desk    chair. Armrest Positioning Proper armrest positioning can       help to reduce stress in the neck, back and shoulders. Adjust the armrests to a point         where your shoulders are in a relaxed position and your elbows are at an         angle of 90°. If armrests       cannot be adjusted, remove them or find an ergonomic chair while typing or       working. Backrest Position Make sure that       the backrest is   large enough to support the back. The chair back should be       tall   enough and wide enough to fully support the back without feeling any         of the chair frame. Most ergonomic       chairs provide backrest height and tilt adjustability. Put the chair back in the full upright   position       and tilt the backrest to the point at which is most   comfortable for you       while. If the office chair has adjustable back   height,       move the back height into a position providing the most   lumbar support for       your lower back region. Lumbar Support It is       important to find a chair   that has a natural curve supporting the lumbar       region or the   adjustability to provide lumbar support. Your bottom should       be as far back in the seat as possible. You should be using       as much of the   chair back as possible which will provide the most lumbar       support   available to your lower back. Seat Height While sitting comfortably in       the   chair, rest your hands on your desk or work surface. Your elbows         should be at a 90° angle. If not, raise or lower the seat height         accordingly. The optimal seat height is the         point at which your knees are at a 90° angle, with your feet flat on the         ground and your thighs horizontal to the floor. If you are too   short to       keep your feet flat on the floor, then utilize an   ergonomic foot stool. Seat Position The seat should be well padded       with a strong, sturdy construction. The seat should be versatile       enough to allow for multiple positions throughout the day. The seat should be specific to       the size of the employee to provide proper positioning and support. Try to minimize the space       between   the back of your knees and the front of the seat. A sliding seat         mechanism makes this adjustment very easy for any user. More Helpful Ergonomics Pages... Adjustable Tables Guide Common Work-Related Injuries Ergonomics Definition Ergonomic Computer Desk Guide Ergonomic Lighting Guide Keyboard Tray Guide Monitor Arm Ergonomics Ventilation Ergonomics Some of the information used was taken from the U.S. Department of Labor                              Occupational Safety & Health   Administration (http://www.osha.gov/) Office Chair Buying Guide Contact Us Company Policies Tips & Advice Center Login / Register Track Your Order Customer Service How To Order Privacy Policy Shipping Policy 30 Day Return Policy 2011 1officefurnituremall.com Call 