<http://gastricbypassfacts.com/?p=392>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Biliopancreatic Diversion Home Gastric Bypass Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Is Growing Fast Bariatric Surgery Or Weight Loss Surgery? Biliopancreatic Diversion Meeting The Cost Of Bariatric Surgery Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy Stomach Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy For The Super Obese Sleeve Gastrectomy With Duodenal Switch Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Gastric Bypass – Before and After Pictures The Father of Gastric Bypass Surgery The Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Estimating The Cost Of Gastric Bypass Surgery Insurance Cover For Gastric Bypass Surgery Will Insurers Ease Funding For Surgery? Life After Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Bypass And Your Expectations Vitamins And Minerals After Gastric Bypass Drinking And Gastric Bypass Surgery Do Not Mix Environmental Factors And The Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Surgery Risks Gastric Bypass Risk And Binge Eating Post Operative Gastric Bypass Complications Gastric Bypass Surgery And The Digestive System The Carnie Wilson Gastric Bypass The Renee Williams Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Questions How Does The Sleeve Gastrectomy Work? Gastric Bypass – Solving A Manmade Problem? How Does A Gastric Bypass Promote Weight Loss? A 40% Risk Of Gastric Bypass Complications? Is The Mini Gastric Bypass An Ideal Solution? Lap Band Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Banding The Theory Of Gastric Banding Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery The Adjustable Gastric Band The Newest And Safest Option Laparoscopic Gastric Band Is A Popular Choice Are You Suitable For Gastric Lap Banding? The Cost Of Lap Band Surgery Covering Your Lap Band Surgery Cost Lap Band Insurance Coverage The Risks Of Gastric Lap Band Surgery Problems Of Laparoscopic Gastric Banding The Risks Of Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery Lap Band Success Rate Lap Band Surgery To Cure Morbid Obesity Is Lap Banding The Answer For Obese Teenagers? Is Gastric Banding Simply Cosmetic Surgery? Gastric Band Surgery Is Not Always Advisable Losing Weight After Adjustable Gastric Banding Gastric Band Surgery Or Diet And Exercise Obesity Obesity Articles Morbid Obesity Morbid Obesity Is A Growing Problem Morbid Obesity Treatment Morbid Obesity And Getting The Help You Need An Obese Person Simply Eats Too Much Obesity Statistics | Obesity Rates and Graphs Psychological Treatments Improve Success Rates The Connection Between Leptin And Obesity The Failure Of Diet As A Solution For Obesity The First Non-Prescription Obesity Pills Obesity and Depression in America The Role Of Fast Food In Obesity The True Cost of the Obesity Epidemic Obesity Surgery Is Not Just About Losing Weight Obesity Questions Are You Simply Overweight Or Clinically Obese? Why Am I Obese And Just What Causes Obesity? When Does Obesity Become Life-Threatening? Are Genetics Another Way To Explain Obesity? Child Obesity The Dangers Of Childhood Obesity 9 Steps To Tackling Childhood Obesity Child Obesity Statistics Child Obesity Surveys Growing Teen Obesity Means More Surgery The Advisability Of Surgery In Teens Obesity At Young Ages Is Common Pure Fruit Juice To Lower Obesity In Children The Problem Of Child Obesity And School Menus Biliopancreatic Diversion Weight loss surgery falls into three main categories. The first is known as malabsorption surgery and is based upon the principally of allowing the patient to continue to eat normally and then re-routing food through the digestive system so that the body is able to absorb only a small fraction of the calorific value of the food eaten. The second is referred to as restrictive surgery in which the patient’s stomach is drastically reduced in size and the quantity of food which the patient can eat, and consequently the number of calories that the body can adsorb, is severely restricted. The third category of surgery is simply a mixture of the first two providing for both a restricted intake and poor calorific absorption. Biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) is a modern improvement on early attempts at malabsorption surgery and was pioneered by Professor Nicola Scopinaro at the University of Genoa. Biliopancreatic diversion is also sometimes referred to as the Scopinaro procedure. The first part of the procedure involves the removal of a section of the stomach in order to reduce the quantity of food that the patient can eat. In the case of BPD however the remaining section of stomach is considerably bigger than that seen in restrictive surgery and patients are still able to eat large quantities of food. While it could be argued that BPD should be classed as a mixed procedure, the restrictive element here is very much secondary to the remainder of the procedure. The second part of the procedure involves the construction of a long limb to join the stomach to the lower portion of the small intestine leaving a short common channel for the re-routed new digestive path and the newly bypassed upper small intestine, which includes both the duodenum and the jejunum. Although BPD has proved very effective in terms of weight loss, and shows good weight loss maintenance many years after surgery for the majority of patients, the malasorptive element of the operation is so potent that it often leads to a serious problem of protein malnutrition. As a result, biliopancreatic diversion is rarely used today and has been largely replaced by a procedure developed by Dr Hess in 1988 which takes Scopinaro’s procedure and combines it with a duodenal switching procedure described by Dr DeMeester in 1987. The resultant hybrid operation, known as a biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch (BPDDS) allows part of the duodenum to remain in the digestive tract and reduces many of nutritional problems seen in the original BPD procedure. The reduced malabsorption effects of the BPDDS are also countered by a more radical form of gastrectomy creating a sleeve along the natural curvature of the stomach which reduces the effective size of the stomach further and moves BPDDS into the class of mixed weight loss surgical procedures. Biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch is a popular and widely used form of surgery today but it is also one of the most complex forms of weight loss surgery. Consequently, anyone contemplating this particular route should seek out a highly experienced surgeon and should ensure that there is a good life-long follow-up program in place. Previous: Bariatric Surgery Is Simply Weight Loss Surgery By Another Name Next: How Does The Gastric Bypass Promote Weight Loss? Interesting Posts Is The Gastric Bypass Right For You? Many people today are turning to the gastric bypass as the solution for their weigh problem but is it really the right answer to your problem? This... Obesity In America | Combating Morbid Obesity Statistics on Obesity in the United States The news is filled with stories about obesity in America. We share this concern with those who are obese... Insurance Cover for Gastric Bypass Surgery An increasing number of people each year are finding that their weight has reached such a level that they either choose, or are more or less forced... The Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery One of the first questions that many people ask when they are considering weight loss surgery is "how much does a gastric bypass cost?" While this is... The Risks Of Gastric Lap Band Surgery Weight loss surgery has advanced considerably in the past 50 years and modern forms of surgery such as gastric lap band surgery are certainly a lot... Gastric Band Surgery Or Diet And Exercise It is amazing to find that after 40 years of experience with weight loss surgery and with hundreds of thousands of procedures being undertaken each... The Importance Of Taking Supplements After Weight Loss Surgery One problem with several forms of weight loss surgery, and especially absorptive forms of surgery such as the Roux-en-Y and sleeve gastrectomy with... How Does The Sleeve Gastrectomy Work? | Gastric Sleeve Surgery The vertical sleeve gastrectomy is a restrictive form of weight loss surgery in which approximately 85% of the stomach is removed leaving a... Copyright © Gas