Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 23 Dec 2009 14:01:32 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "064a6ed883ca1:2213"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 20:01:16 GMT
Connection: close

Traditional Chinese medicine, TCM news, natural therapy information, introduction, TCM discovery news, - Acupuncture Your Way to Health - [TCM discovery Net] Old TCM Website A/H1N1 flu TCM News TCM And Life Diseases Inquiry TCM Answers TCM Encyclopaedia Video Gallery Literature Service And Products TCM Theory TCM Diagnosis TCM Helps On-Line Prevention And Rehabilitation Science Of Chinese Materia Medica TCM Prescription Sino-Western Medicine Joint TCM & Diseases TCM Natural Therapy Magazine TCM Activities Cases TCM Group TCM Search Tool Contact Us About Us Site Map Taking Chinese Medicine Diabetes Acne(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Aging Allergic rhinitis Anaemia(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Arthritis Asthma Bronchitis Cancer Cataract Chronic hepatitis Cervical spondylopatyh Colitis(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Constipation Depression Duodenal ulcer Eczema Eye care Fatigue Gallstone Glaucoma Gout Hay fever Heart diseases Hemorrhoid High Blood Pressure High cholesterol Impotence Insomnia Irritability kidney stone(TCM) Lumbago(TCM) Menopause(TCM) Menstrual disorder(TCM) Migraine headache(TCM) Obesity Osteo-arthrosis(TCM) periarthritis(TCM) Prostate disease(TCM) Psoriasis Insomnia(TCM) Rheumatoid arthritis Sciatica(TCM) Skin care(TCM) Spur(TCM) Stomach-ache(TCM) Thyroid disease(TCM) Tinnitus(TCM) Vertigo Parkinson(TCM) TCM Reflexology Asthma(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cervical spine disease Children's poor appe Common cold Constipation Diabetes Diarrhoea Frigidity Hemorrhoid Heart diseases Hypertension Headache(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Impotence Insomnia Irregular Menstruation Lumber muscle strain neurodermatitis Menopause(TCM PREVENTION) Obesity Parkinson Disease periarthritis(TCM PREVENTION) Prostate disease Psoriasis Rheumatoid arthritis Sinusitis Tinnitus(TCM PREVENTION) TCM Acupuncture Acute mastadenitis Sprain of soft tissues of the limbs Acute lumbar sprain Lumbago Rheumatoid arthritis Gonitis Thecal cyst External humeral epicondylitis Scapulohumeral periarthritis Stiff neck Dysfunction of temporomandibular joint Cervical spondylopathy Schizophrenia Globus hystericus Sequela of apoplexy Angioneurotic headache Intercostal neuralgia Sciatica Peripheral facial paralysis Diabetes Hyperthyroidism Seminal emission Prostatitis Prostatitis Retention of urine Urinary tract stones Infection of urinary tract Primary thrombocytopenic purpura Leukocytopenia Biliary tract infection and cholelithiasis Gastroptosis Gastric and duodenal ulcer Chronic gastritis Acute gastritis Coronary heart disease Arrhythmia Vomiting Toothache Tennis Elbow Painful Hemorrhoids Painful Elevation of the Arm Intestinal Worms Hysteria Epistaxis--Nosebleed Cystitis and Urethritis Coldness of the Extremities Car and Air Sickness Amenorrhea Acute Optic Neuritis Acute Lumbar pain Abdominal Pain Allergies Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Backache Colitis Constipation Depression Emotional instabilityaffective disoroers Gastro-intestinal disorders Gynecological disorders Headache Hypertension (high blood pressure) Infertility Insomnia Lumbar disc syndrome Menopause Migraine Neck Problnms Numbness Obesity Paralysis and paresis Parkinsonism Psoriasis Sciatica Sexual impotence Sinusitis (cgronic) Smoking Stroke residuals Tinnitus Trigeminal neuralgia TCM Herbal Tea Hypertension Formula Anti-Cancer Formula Health Care Formula Arthritis Care Formula Skin Revitalizing Formula Slim Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cholesterol/Eyes Care Formula Diabetes Formula Migraine Formula Constipation Formula Detox/Purify Formula Prostate Care Formula Male Fertility Formula Female Fertility Formula Menopause Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Menstruation Formula Sciatica Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Skin Disease Formula Insomnia Formula Lumbago Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Sinusitis Formula Swelling Care Formula Tinnitus Formula Stone Relief Formula Thyroids Formula Stomach & ulcer Formula Colitis Care Formula Asthma Formula Romance Formula Haircome Formula Cardiovascular Formula Web Encyclopaedia Answers Disease Acupoints Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs Joining TCM Group Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs All Acupoints Here: Home -> News -> TCM News >Information News: Acupuncture Your Way to Health Author: chengzhen Source: TCM Time: 2009-3-10 1:14:45 Comments: Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Acupuncture, Health A cupuncture is considered one of the oldest healing therapies in the world. It has been practiced for thousands of years across the world. Its beginning was in China thousands of years ago. Acupuncture is one of the main therapies of Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM). According to a Consensus Development Conference on Acupuncture held at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 1997: "Acupuncture is being "widely" practiced by thousands of physicians, dentists, acupuncturists, and other practitioners for relief or prevention of pain and for various other health conditions". Acupuncture is a very popular method of healing. In acupuncture, some points on the skin surface are stimulated to treat or prevent diseases . The main theory of acupuncture which explains its efficacy is the presence of vital energy called "chi", which moves in the body through twelve channels called "meridians". Stimulation of points on the surface of these channels is done in numerous ways such as needles, press, heat, electric pulses or cups. In the Unites States of America, James Reston published his story about his journey to China, in which he described his feelings about acupuncture analgesia after surgery in 1971. After that date, acupuncture research and trials increased. Now, there are many published trials supporting the efficacy of acupuncture in various diseases and its trials are still increasing. World Health Organization supports acupuncture research and practice, and now there are thousands of acupuncturists in the United States of America. Acupuncture as a procedure is generally safe. In the United States of America, the frequency of acupuncture side effects is one per million, which is a very low frequency. Examples of conditions recommended for acupuncture by the World Health Organization (W.H.O.) are: Acute sinusitis, acute rhinitis, common cold, bronchial asthma, toothache , tennis elbow, sciatica, low back pain, rheumatoid arthritis , constipation, diarrhea, headache, migraine, trigeminal neuralgia, facial paralysis and nocturnal enuresis. A landmark study (2004) funded by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) and the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), both components of the National Institutes of Health, has shown that acupuncture provides pain relief and improves function for people with osteoarthritis of the knee and serves as an effective complement to standard care. Needle acupuncture is the most used form of acupuncture. Most patients feel no or very minimal pain sensation during needle acupuncture treatment. Patients may need a number of visits. Ten visits are considered one course of treatment and some patients may need more than one course. Finally, you need to find a qualified acupuncturist to visit. You can find a qualified acupuncturist by advice from your physician or by contacting national acupuncture organizations, which you can find at public libraries or on the world wide web. Special Recommendation: 1. The most effective slimming capsule in 2009- New feeling, which is special-purpose for stars go on the market successfully, which not only popularized by numerous show business figures but also starts violent radicalism of shopping rush quickly in big cities of the world. New Feeling is a health product which is made from herbal and pure chinese medicine, no chemical ingredient, mild and safe, they are both adopt to all kinds of obesity people. It has the function of reducing weight, balancing the blood sugar , blood pressure and cholesterol and health care based on the research. Guilin TCM Study Tours are designed to supply you Guilin China tours with an immersing experience in contemporary Chinese culture and natural therapy study. Participants study various subjects like TCM theory , TCM diagnosis, Chinese cuisine, Chinese language, natural therapy study (acupuncture, cupping, Tuina and herbs etc) etc. Healthy Tour is a rehabilitation and traveling item which provided by our TCM center through TCM naturopathy recuperating health of patients. Our experts will know carefully about the patient's health condition, then diagnose for the patients, suit the remedy to the case, and adopt correct natural therapy for the patient. Academic Exchange tour is a traveling item which provided by our center to experts both at home and abroad with certain medical problems . Participators will take part in seminar and communication of academic achievements with well-known experts in our center. TCM Search Tool , an amazing tool making you get what you want about TCM , please use it from now on. Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Comments Name: From: >>Read all Comments Extensive Reading Life-cultivation and rehabilitation: good place of providing health physique! TCM Answers: health life should be talked freely Meridian and collateral illustration: effective meridian and collateral health care illustration of treating diseases Life-cultivation and rehabilitation: good place of providing health physique! Mild Reminder Chinese Tea Culture Tour Two weeks Tui Na study tour to Guilin 3-day Ethnic Minority tour of Guilin (1) Based on the Four Segments and Treatment by Syndrome New Understanding of the Basic Theory of Traditional Chinese Medicine The Effect of a Novel Cytokine High Mobility Group Box 1 An Outstanding Endocrinologist of Integrative Medicine Observation on Treatment of Acne Acne Treated by Fire Needle Therapy Name: EMail: Theme: Questions: Customized Tours Design your own decision with our help to meet your unique interests.You don't have to compromise,just do exactly what you want to do!we will arrange the satisfied plan according to your demand.It includes the following aspects: Study Tours Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Special Recommendation One Million Women Globally have Witnessed its Magical Effect of Slimming! Health tour Academic Exchange Detox/Purify Capsules Weilingxian-Stone Relief Formula Pugogying-Thyroids Formula Yangshuo China Oriental Discovery TCM Service Questionnaire on Service Platform TCM Search Tool TCM expert group Health Archive User Control Panel TCM Helps On-Line TCM and life: life-cultivation and nourishment of face TCM is along with you. Related Reading Ten days Qigong Study Tour Gongfu and Painting Tour Guilin Health Tours Chinese Tea Culture Tour Healthy life style traditional Chinese culture they are in General E-magzine. TCM broad and profound natural therapy Medical School Vasectomy, Male Infertility, Texas Vasectomy Reversal Clinic Dr Hamilton’s Chinese Medicine Clinic in Scotland The Rising Lotus Qigong Traditional Chinese Acupuncture by Guanhu Yang Chinese Medical Centre of Cyprus The Family of Light Healing Centre Acne treatment Sacramento dentistry Acai Berry Is Medical Tourism Safe? Acomplia Diet Pills Zimulti (Rimonabant) Personal Fitness Trainers Training Plan Bodymind Healing Center More Links More Links Copyright©2003,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department About Us | TCM | Reflexology | Acupuncture | Taiji | Qigong | Herbal Tea | Products | Advertise | Contact us | TCM Union | Site Map Tel: +86-773-5820588 Fax: +86-773-5845295 E-mail: tcmadv