
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 02:27:34 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.bedfan.com/night_sweats/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Menopause Symptoms | Night Sweats - Menopause - Hot Flashes - Sleeping hot Night Sweats – Menopause – Hot Flashes – Sleeping hot Taking the heat out of your sleep Home Ending Night Sweats Posts Tagged ‘Menopause Symptoms’ « Older Entries Discover Menopause Natural Treatments August 28th, 2011 | Author: nightsweats An early symptom of menopause is heart palpitations, which is a condition in which premature contractions of the heart, make it beat more than usual pumping twice as much blood to the heart and resulting in rapid heart beats. The fact is that increased levels of cortisol, which makes the heart work overtime and causes unease, precipitates diabetes and high blood pressure in many women who are in their menopause stage. Sage is a herbal remedy that have been proven to lessen the severity of menopause in women as a daily dose of sage tea in the day time can reduce the number of hot flashes usually experienced at night. Black cohosh is a herbal remedy that derives its potency from its ability to stall the production of a hormone called the luteinizing hormone which is believed to cause various side effects of menopause including not flashes. A common menopause symptoms is mood swings which has to do with uncontrollable shifts in emotions that vary from high to low. However, it is a fact that consistent exercises help in enhancing moods and stimulates the release of endorphins, also known as “happy hormones” that improve the mood and serves as a painkiller in times of injury. You might also consider menopause vitamins, in addition to herbal remedies to address perimenopause symptoms . Get useful information about the topic of healthy asian diet – please  read this web site. The times have come when proper info is really within your reach, use this chance. Posted in Hot Flashes | Tags: Asian Diet , Black Cohosh , Cortisol , Early Menopause , Effects Of Menopause , Heart Palpitations , Heart Work , Herbal Remedy , High Blood Pressure , Hot Flashes , Information About The Topic , Luteinizing Hormone , menopause supplements , Menopause Symptoms , Mood Swings , Perimenopause Symptoms , Rapid Heart , Sage Tea , Side Effects Of Menopause , Symptom Of Menopause , Work Overtime | No Comments » Seven Powerful Foods To Relieve Menopause Symptoms July 13th, 2011 | Author: nightsweats When most women first start to experience the terrible symptoms of menopause, they may right away a cure for these symptoms. These cures may include sleeping pills to get rest, changing to lighter clothes to try and keep the hot flashes at bay, and many doses of Pepto-Bismol to fix the bloating and indigestion . What about the diet, are you eating foods that will help your body to adjust to menopause? Here are some really great foods that may help in your quest to find relief. Soy if you haven’t heard by now, soy is a very healthy and natural food that is absolutely filled with helpful plant estrogens called isoflavones that can reduce the hot flashes of menopause. Isoflavones can help lower cholesterol as well, according to many researchers. It is also loaded with protein, iron, and calcium, which is important especially for those on a vegan diet.Nuts some think that nuts are loaded with fat, but the fat they contain is not animal fat and completely unsaturated (and healthy for you!). They also contain antioxidants and minerals such as magnesium and selenium, and vitamin E. The best thing about them is you can add them to other foods in cooking, they are tasty! Fish yes, you still need protein for your body to remain healthy and strong, even though the veggies may be your staple. If you enjoy fish, be glad because it is full of good things besides protein such as omega-3 fatty acids that are very heart healthy. This kind of fat also lowers your LDL cholesterol, so go ahead and indulge yourself!Flax what is flax? you may know that it is found mostly in a seed form, although you can also buy it as a supplement in capsule form. They contain phytoestrogens, just like soy, so they can help relieve hot flashes also. Not only that they contain essential fatty acids to help lower cholesterol. Green tea of course you enjoy a cup of tea once in awhile, so why not make it green tea and gain the benefits of polyphenols that are a very powerful antioxidant. This natural chemical is a cancer-fighter and stops cell damage as well.Green leafy vegetables yes, your mother was right. Eating your greens is a great way to get iron, fiber, vitamins C and B, as well as minerals such as calcium and manganese. Yogurt this food has long been thought to bring good health, due to the active cultures such as Lactobacillus acidophilus which helps balance the bad bacteria in your digestive tract. Of course the calcium is a big plus as well, but if you are lactose intolerant this may not be an option.So there are you are, some of the healthy foods you may enjoy as often as you like and actually help with your menopause symptoms, too. Of course don’t forget to drink plenty of water each day, and get some exercise too! More On: anti aging More on: Menoquil Readers that are searching the Internet for more info about the topic of lose 10 pounds 10 days ,  please make sure to go to the link which is mentioned  in this passage. Posted in Menopause | Tags: 3 Fatty Acids , Bloating And Indigestion , Cup Of Tea , Essential Fatty Acids , Green Tea , Hot Flashes , Isoflavones , Ldl Cholesterol , Lower Cholesterol , Menopause , Menopause Symptoms , Natural Food , Omega 3 Fatty Acids , Plant Estrogens , Polyphenols , Powerful Foods , Selenium , Sleeping Pills , Symptoms Of Menopause , Tasty Fish , Vegan Diet | No Comments » Choose Herbal Supplementations Very Carefully For Menopause Signs And Symptoms November 3rd, 2010 | Author: nightsweats There are many normal products on the market today to ease women of the menopause symptoms but not almost all products are for those women. Some products combine several herbal treatments in one product to cover just about all symptoms such as hot flashes , bloating, depression, intestinal problems, breast pain, irritability and nervousness. But not almost all women experience all these symptoms at one time, so that it isn’t necessary to have a one-dimension-fits–all supplement. Ladies should choose herbs separately to suit the actual menopausal symptoms they may be experiencing. Herbal Supplements regarding Menopause When choosing herbal remedies for menopausal signs and symptoms, it is usually secure to combine multiple to relieve all of your symptoms. The best way to find the appropriate combination of herbal medicines is to try one for your primary symptoms, then add an additional as other symptoms develop. You may also discover that as menopause moves along, you can remove one or more of the supplements. Here are the most common herbal supplements employed for symptoms of menopauseand menopause treatment Soy Isoflavones Soy isoflavones, derived from soya beans and dried beans, contain phytoestrogens in which are similar to the estrogen hormone in the woman body. Eating scented soy products daily, or even taking 50 gr of soy isoflavones supplements, can help to retain estrogen hormone levels also and help reduce the symptoms of night sweats , irritability, bloating, sleeplessness, hot flashes and also breast swelling. Getting soy isoflavones health supplements is relatively safe; however, do not take a lot more than the recommended every day amount. Also, when you have had breast cancer or perhaps are at risk of breast cancer, talk to your physician before taking this kind of supplement. Black cohosh This herb has been used extensively in Europe to treat menopausal flashes, depression and sleep problems in menopausal women. Like soy, african american cohosh contains oestrogen-like parts that help to keep estrogen levels even in females. Black cohosh also helps in treating diarrhea as well as water retention, lesser known symptoms that being menopausal women experience. Dark cohosh should not be taken by women who are already on treatment for high blood pressure, who may have had breast cancer or who are expecting. It is recommended not to take this botanical herb over 6 months at any given time. Taking it for 2 weeks on, fourteen days off is generally suggested. St. John’s wort St. Johnâs wort is used to treat symptoms of depressive disorders, anxiety and insomnia, common symptoms of the menopause. Do not take St. John’s wort in case you are already on a doctor prescribed depression medication. Dong Quai Dong quai has been used for centuries for female difficulties including irregular intervals, PMS and menopause relief. This botanical herb is said to relieve the symptoms of night sweats, hot flashes, oral dryness and discomfort during sex. Do not use this organic medication if you are previously taking a prescription medicine for high blood pressure or perhaps aspirin for heart problems. It can also result in sensitivity to natural light and increase the chance of skin cancer. Chasteberry Chasteberry is thought to increase sexual desire inside woman. It is also efficient in treating mood, headache, breast puffiness, vaginal dryness and depression. There are no known side-outcomes for chasteberry. Become selective when choosing herbal medicines for menopausal symptoms. You may just have one or two, or perhaps your needs may well change as you improvement through menopause. Simply by choosing the organic supplement that fits your symptoms, you will not end up being overloading your body along with unnecessary medications that could cause unwanted side-effects. In case you are searching the Internet for more info about the topic of how to loose weight quickly ,  please make sure to check out the web page which was mentioned right in this passage. Posted in Menopause | Tags: Black Cohosh , Breast Cancer , Breast Pain , Health Supplements , Herbal Medicines , Herbal Supplements , Herbal Treatments , Hormone Levels , Hot Flashes , Intestinal Problems , Menopausal Symptoms , Menopause Signs , Menopause Symptoms , menopause symptoms treatment , Menopause Treatment , Night sweats , One Dimension , Phytoestrogens , Sleep Problems , Soy Isoflavones , Soya Beans | No Comments » Known Better Concerning Menopause Symptoms And Also Menopause Treatment October 19th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats When you approach menopause, the blood pressure can start climbing. Get a handle on menopause symptoms by keeping your weight in check by taking exercise and a healthy diet. Food items high in potassium like bananas and also pomegranate are intelligent, especially if your own blood sugar is under control. It could be a good idea to minimize bananas if sugar is an issue. Think about using stevia, a absolutely no-calorie lower-glycemic sweetener which actually reduces blood pressure a few points. Cut your sodium and fat intake, eat grapefruit, use apple cider vinegar, dark brown rice and espresso beans. Llots of do-it-yourself beans without extra salt. Use garlic herb and onions freely. Consider supplementing together with fish peptide supplements to lower blood pressure , but only if one other remedies are not necessarily sufficient and your doctor approves. Menopause provides major changes to the body, changes which could make you want to cost the doctor for any hormone prescription. Before you consider hormone replacement therapy , you will find help at your nearby grocery, health food store and also pharmacy as your menopause treatment . Boost your all around health with a physician-approved workout program, healthy low:fat diet, as well as blood-pressure-friendly food items. If your nicotine gums bleed easily or perhaps become sore, deal with with Neem pills, mouthwash andAndor toothpaste to be able to kill unwanted germs in the mouth. Supplement with the mineral magnesium for a great night’s sleep or perhaps increase your intake of magnesium-rich meals such as halibut, pumpkin seeds, prepared spinach and african american beans. There are many natural products on the market today to alleviate women of the the signs of menopause but not just about all products are for many women. Some items combine several herbs in one supplement to cover just about all symptoms such as hot flashes , bloating, depression, digestive tract problems, breast pain, irritability and anxiousness. But not almost all women experience all these symptoms at one time, therefore it isn’t necessary to have a one-size-fits–all supplement. Ladies should choose herbal supplements separately to suit the actual menopausal symptoms they are experiencing. Herbal Supplements for Menopause When choosing herbal treatments for menopausal symptoms, it is usually safe to combine more than one to relieve your entire symptoms. The best way to find the correct combination of herbal medicines is to attempt one for your main symptoms, then add another as other signs develop. You may also realize that as menopause progresses, you can remove one or more with the supplements. Here are the most common herbal supplements useful for symptoms of the menopause. -Soy Isoflavones -Black cohosh -St. John’s wort -Dong Quai -Chasteberry Be selective when selecting herbal supplements regarding menopausal symptoms. You may only need a couple of, or your needs may well change as you development through menopause. Simply by choosing the natural supplement that fits your symptoms, you will not be overloading your body with unnecessary medications which could cause unwanted aspect-effects. If you are looking for more info about the sphere of weight loss ,  please  check out the site which is quoted  in this line. Posted in Menopause | Tags: Apple Cider Vinegar , Body Changes , Brown Rice , Espresso Beans , Friendly Food , Glycemic , Health Food Store , Healthy Diet Food , Hormone Replacement Therapy , Hot Flashes , Low Fat Diet , Lower Blood Pressure , Menopause Symptoms , menopause symptoms treatment , Mineral Magnesium , Pumpkin Seeds , Rich Meals , Signs of Menopause , Supplements To Lower Blood Pressure , Unwanted Germs , Workout Program | No Comments » Can Menopause Supplements Really Help Relieve Your Symptoms August 9th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Menopause is something that every woman will have to go through in their life. It is not a pleasant experience for any woman but it is necessary as you get older. When you find yourself dealing with menopause and want to find a way to relieve your symptoms you can use menopause supplements . There are many supplements that can be used to help you relieve the symptoms you deal with on a regular basis. It is a good idea to always know what is in the supplement before you take them and what the side effects are. If you take natural supplements then you don’t have to worry about side effects. When it comes to the different supplements that are available each type will contain different ingredients and be used for relieving different symptoms. This is why it is imperative to read the label and learn as much information as you can about it before trying it. One of the common extracts that are used in supplements for menopause is black cohosh. This is used to help relieve a couple of different things including: - Night sweats - Hot flashes - Vagina dryness - Mild depression In some women it has been shown to cause upset stomachs but not in all women. Another type of extract that is common for use against menopause symptoms is St. John’s wort. This will help reduce depression. Another ingredient that is commonly used in supplements for menopause is Valerian. This will help to reduce the severity of any mood swings you experience. Vitamin E is also commonly used and it will help with sleeping problems you may be experiencing. It will also help reduce anxiety or panic attacks for anyone that deals with either of these problems. One last ingredient that is commonly used to relieve symptoms of menopause is soy. This is used to help relieve your hot flashes. Plus when you consume it as food it is very healthy for anyone that eats it. When you are choosing supplements to use you want to look for ones that contain vitamins because these can be used long term without the worry of any negative side effects. Plus taking vitamins on a regular basis is just good for your overall health. Knowing this important information about menopause supplements will help you find the one that will help you relieve your symptoms the most. Just be sure you choose what supplements you use with caution so you don’t end up with other problems on top of the symptoms you are experiencing on a regular basis from the menopause. If you enjoyed this article by Jeff Schuman please visit our menopause symptoms website today. Get Help With menopause hot flashes, relieve menopause symptoms, and flat out get answers…. http://www.everythingmenopause.com Posted in Menopause | Tags: Anxiety , Black Cohosh , Different Things , Extracts , Hot Flashes , Menopause , menopause supplements , Menopause Symptoms , Mild Depression , Mood Swings , Natural Supplements , Night sweats , Panic Attacks , Severity , Sleeping Problems , st john s wort , Symptoms Of Menopause , Upset Stomachs , Vagina Dryness , Valerian , Vitamin E | No Comments » Types Of Menopause Herbs And What Symptoms They Help Reduce? August 7th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Menopause herbs are used by many women to help them reduce the symptoms of menopause that they experience. These herbs have show to be effective for reducing and sometimes treating symptoms that are related to the dreaded menopause that every woman experiences. There are many different types of herbs that can be used to help reduce symptoms. Understanding what some of these herbs are and what symptoms they are useful for will give you some idea of which ones you need to try to help you relieve the particular symptoms you are dealing with. Some of the different herbs that are used for menopause symptom relief include: 1. Black cohosh – This herb is used to help relieve congestion and cramps that many women experience during menopause. It has also been known to relieve hot flashes and to help relieve pain that you may be experiencing in your muscles. 2. Chaste tree – This is used to effectively balance hormones and is used for relieving or preventing depression during menopause. The part of this tree that is used is the fruit and when it is dried it works for effectively for many women. 3. Dandelion – The leaves, tops and roots are used for treating different symptoms for menopause . This herb has been shown to treat the liver and help with hormonal imbalances. 4. Damiana – This herb is what is known as a pituitary regulator and is also used as an antidepressant. This is used for women that are having difficulties in sex. 5. St. John’s Wort – This will help with mild forms of anxiety or depression. 6. Vitamins – Your body needs vitamins to stay healthy and this is especially true during menopause. You can get vitamins through different foods such as fruits and vegetables or you can take them in pill form. The key is to take the right vitamins for the symptoms that you are dealing with. You can talk to your doctor about which vitamins you need and you can do some research to help you determine which vitamins will help reduce the particular symptoms you experience. 7. Soy – This herb can be found in a lot of foods these days and is very healthy for anyone to eat. It is used to help women reduce hot flashes. These are just some of the menopause herbs that are used by women everywhere to help them relieve their symptoms. You need to take time to figure out all the symptoms that you deal with and then find the herbs that will be beneficial to you. Every woman is different so be sure you choose the herbs you need carefully so you can find the most relief possible. If you enjoyed this article by Jeff Schuman please visit our menopause symptoms website today. Get Help With menopause hot flashes, relieve menopause symptoms, and flat out get answers…. http://www.everythingmenopause.com Posted in Menopause | Tags: Anxiety Depression , Black Cohosh , Chaste Tree , Damiana , Dandelion , Different Foods , Fruits And Vegetables , Fruits Vegetables , Hormonal Imbalances , Hot Flashes , Many Different Types , Menopause Herb , menopause herbs , Menopause Relief , Menopause Symptom , Menopause Symptoms , Preventing Depression , st john s wort , Symptom Relief , Symptoms Of Menopause , Woman Experiences | No Comments » Choosing Your Menopause Treatment Regime August 4th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Menopause symptoms can be difficult to adjust to. Pain in the rear end can be associated with menopause symptoms. Fortunately treatments have become available over the last three decades or so. Not so long ago women would suffer through menopause with little relief. Choosing from the various treatment methods available these days will assist you in decreasing your symptoms. Each woman’s response to treatment is unique. Amazingly, there are treatments that are available which have proven to work well for some. Look below for some great treatment options. Vaginal estrogen has proven effective in treating the symptoms of vaginal dryness associated with menopause. In particular, this treatment can help decrease the discomfort a menopausal woman might experience during sexual intercourse. It could also help with vaginal dryness. If you suffer with urinary tract symptoms this treatment may beneficial to you. Vaginal estrogen comes in three insertable forms, tablet, ring and cream. Make sure you talk to your doctor before you begin this treatment! Menopausal women should increase their Vitamin E intake. There are no reports of Vitamin E being bad for you. Some women report that an increased intake of Vitamin E helps reduce their hot flashes . The benefits of Vitamine E are not very conclusive in studies conducted thus far. The best method of increasing Vitamin E intake is through the food you eat. Dietary supplement medication such as Vitamin E are more difficult for your system to absorb. Have regular checkups. Getting a physical once a year is not enough for women going through menopause. At least four visits a year are necessary. You need to do this so that you can keep your doctor informed about your symptoms, your treatments and your progress. If you are using drug therapy to treat the symptoms of your menopause regular check ups will help your doctor track their progress as well. Getting regular pap smears, lipid level tests and other screening evaluations will help your doctor catch conditions as they occur. This prove to be very beneficial if you start to show signs of aging issues or other kinds of disease. Menopause treatments have tripled over the last two or three decades. The simple fact is that each woman experiences menopause differently. There may not be a canned ham style of treatment that will work for every woman. There may not be a canned ham style of treatment that will work for every woman.It is extremely important to remember you do have options for help if you reach out to them. If you reach for the resources available you will have an easier time coping with the changes.This prove to be very beneficial if you start to show signs of aging issues or other kinds of disease. For SIDDHA consultation contact Dr.Santhosh Selvam. Best SIDDHA MEDICINE available at Siddha Quest .Com Gain practical info about home business – please  study this web page. The times have come when proper info is truly only one click of your mouse, use this possibility. Posted in Menopause | Tags: Check Ups , Dietary Supplement , Estrogen , Hot Flashes , Last Three Decades , Level Tests , menopausal woman , Menopause , Menopause Relief , Menopause Symptoms , Menopause Treatment , Pap Smears , Rear End , Sexual Intercourse , Treatment Regime , Urinary Tract Symptoms , Vaginal Dryness , Vitamin E , Vitamine E , Women Report | No Comments » Finding The Best Menopause Treatment For Your Symptoms July 21st, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Dealing with the symptoms of menopause can be a giant pain in the you-know-where. Sometimes that is actually a literal statement as well! Fortunately treatments have become available over the last three decades or so. Many generations of women simply endured the stages of menopause without relief. Now there are all sorts of treatments and remedies that can help a woman to ease her suffering. Because women are all different no two symptoms will respond the same to the same treatment. Many of the available treatment methods do prove effective for many. Here are a few treatments you might think about looking into. What may also help your self esteem is the introduction of an anti aging product such as Lifecell reviews . Put some work into strengthening your pelvic floor. Most of the discomfort a woman feels during menopause originates in the pelvic area as do most of her symptoms so having a strong pelvic floor can help her do a lot to weaken the symptoms she will have to deal with. Your doctor will probably suggest kegel exercises every day–the same exercises you did to prepare for giving birth. Doing these pelvic exercises can also help relieve the symptoms associated with incontinence. Basically what you want to do is strengthen all of the muscles in your pelvic area so that you can stay healthy and in shape “down there”. The use of Dermajuv Eye Revolution Gel can also do wonders to your self image. Yoga, whether or not you want to believe it, has been proven an effective menopause treatment technique. Studies have proven that regular yoga helps release the amount of hot flashes a woman experiences. Regular yoga can also help to reduce just how intense a woman’s hot flashes might be. Many health professionals believe that the controlled breathing and relaxation techniques can improve a woman’s spirit as well as her physical body, which is another reason why women report yoga as an effective menopause treatment. One menopause treatment that is particularly dicey is black cohosh. Using black cohosh during initial menopause stages is said to decrease drastically the intensity of menopause symptoms. Nausea, headaches, dizziness, and heart issues are among the side effects shown in studies when black cohosh is used over long periods of time. Before beginning use of black cohosh consult a physcian. Under no circumstances should black cohosh be taken for periods longer than six months. You cannot universally treat menopause. There is no one treatment that will work on every woman. Lots of women choose to mix medicinal, herbal and lifestyle menopause treatments to help them cope with all of the symptoms of their “life changes.” There are, however, some women who decide to only use one kind of treatment. Still other women want to pretend that menopause isn’t happening to them. You will figure out what works well for you. Make sure, however, that no matter what kind of menopause treatment that you decide to try, you run it past your doctor. Get approval from your doctor before you try anything new. You want to help yourself not hurt yourself. Fetch useful recommendations about the topic of lose 10 pounds in a month – please make sure to read this publication. The times have come when proper information is really only one click of your mouse, use this opportunity. Posted in Menopause | Tags: anti wrinkle cream , Controlled Breathing , Giving Birth , Health Professionals , Hot Flashes , Kegel Exercises , Last Three Decades , Literal Statement , Many Generations , Menopause , Menopause Relief , Menopause Symptoms , Menopause Treatment , Muscles , Pelvic Area , Pelvic Exercises , Pelvic Floor , Relaxation Techniques , Self Image , Stages Of Menopause , Symptoms Of Menopause | No Comments » Menozac – Effective Natural Menopause Relief June 19th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats The way individuals view older women influences mature ladies in how well they cope with menopause. In numerous regions where the society respects maturity, wisdom and experiences, the menopausal time is attended by far fewer physical and emotional ailments. Having to go via menopause could be depressing. Particularly when you’re getting to tolerate the ups and downs of your emotions. The symptoms of menopause that ladies can undergo are hot flashes , mood swings, depression and fatigue. Depressive disorders is 1 of the signs and symptoms that women can undergo simply because of menopause. Depression is trigger for sadness, anger, overwhelming feelings and headaches. Communication with individual you trust is a easy and useful method to relieve yourself from depression. Depressive disorders can even impact your everyday activities and routines. If your depression is severe it can certainly affect your life, so you will then need professional help so that you can deal with it. 1 from the effective organic menopause reliefs which you can use is Menozac. Menozac is an alternative medicine which is made with all natural herbal extracts . It is develop to ease the transition and can provide effectve alleviation from menopause symptoms. It is formulated with the very best known combination of high potency phytoestrogen botanicals which possess a lengthy experimental history of relieving menopausal signs and symptoms, and supporting the body’s hormonal balance. Menozac Menopause Alleviation is really a item that helps ladies deal with all of the symptoms of going via menopause. A few from the symptoms that it helps includes warm flashes, mood swings, sleep patterns, and a lot much more. The ingredients within the item are all organic, which means you won’t need to worry about putting dangerous points or drugs into your body. What the treatment does it helps regulate your body’s hormones, which helps together with your emotions. Ladies who are heading through menopause possess a hard time dealing with their feelings. It’s type of like we’re going on an emotional roller coaster ride. 1 minute we’re happy and also the next minute we’re crying. Menozac assists us control this. It helps us get the relief we require to ensure that our feelings aren’t up and down. Herbal remedy can assist you to together with your menopause. This can aid you to naturally treat your menopause symptoms. This organic menopause relief can assist you to really feel better. With Menozac, you is going to be free of charge and relieve from the signs and symptoms that menopause can bring for example warm flashes, night sweats , mood swings, palpitations anxiety, depression, insomnia and urinary changes. You need to know that menopause is not the end of the road. Actually, for some it may be the beginning. Ladies can live wholesome and fulfilling existence throughout and following menopause. So with taking Menozac, ladies can feel good and be alleviation in the signs and symptoms that menopause brings. Read more at menozac menopause and menozac 7 . Find out vital knowledge about lose weight fast –   study the web page. The times have come when concise information is really within your reach, use this opportunity. Posted in Menopause | Tags: Ailments , Alleviation , Alternative Medicine , Botanicals , Depressive Disorders , Everyday Activities , High Potency , Hormonal Balance , Hot Flashes , Menopause , Menopause Relief , Menopause Symptoms , Menozac , Mood Swings Depression , Natural Herbal Extracts , Older Women , Overwhelming Feelings , Reliefs , Sleep Patterns , Symptoms Of Menopause , Ups And Downs | No Comments » Menopause Formula From Menozac June 14th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Menopause is a horrible time in our life. We have to go via hot flashes , irritability, mood swings, trouble sleeping, crashing fatigue, loss of libido, feelings of dread or apprehension, the list just goes on and on. Many of us have sat wishing or hoping that there’s something that can alleviate our Menopause symptoms. The great news is, there’s. It’s called Menozac and it is been developed to ensure a much more comfortable and happy life. No more sticking your head in the freezer to eliminate hot flashes! Menozac is a botanical formulation to relieve ladies during menopause. It is not a disease but, a natural phenomenon in which the production of estrogen gets diminished. It’s one of the most essential time periods in the entire life of a woman where her body undergoes essential modifications for future adjustment. Throughout this phase female undergo numerous psychological and physical sufferings that can adversely affect their overall health. The amazing Menozac formula has really proven very beneficial for reducing afflictions of this natural phenomenon. It is a great blend of well-researched phytoestrogen botanicals, which are known for supporting the body’s hormonal balance and relieving menopausal symptoms since ages. The certified product offers effective menopause relief and eases all discomforts of this transition. This advanced treatment for menopause has several benefits that include quick relief from anxiety, urinary modifications, appetite changes, vaginal dryness, bloating, hot flashes and mood swings. Menozac is natural remedy which uses all the herbal and natural supplements for menopause to treat the pain and other physiological modifications that occurs during this course of time. This is not like other pain killers which could truly have deadly chemicals having severe side effects. This is completely organic and safe, so there is no need for you to be concerned about side effects. It is also available at affordable prices making it easy for everyone to make use of it. Women can really easily see the difference while taking this treatment and it has already been provided with so numerous women and all have shown satisfaction for this organic treatment. If you truly wish to see it working, then you are able to use it yourselves and see the results. Because it is totally made of natural products you require not be concerned about side effects. It’s totally safe and a lot much better than any other alternative treatment for Menopause. Menopause is really a biological change that occurs in each and every other girl, which is a essential period for every woman throughout which her body suffers vital modifications to carry out future needs. Menozac is really a relief item that would assist woman during this horrible period. Surprise your husband and your family. Go back to the happy, cheerful individual you utilized to be. Be the lover he wants. Read more at menozac menopause and menozac menopause review . Fetch pragmatic things to know about lose 10 pounds in days – please make sure to study this page. The time has come when proper information is really at your fingertips, use this chance. Posted in Menopause | Tags: Afflictions , Appetite Changes , Botanical Formulation , Deadly Chemicals , Feelings Of Dread , Head In The Freezer , Hormonal Balance , Horrible Time , Hot Flashes , Loss Of Libido , Menopausal Symptoms , Menopause Relief , Menopause Symptoms , menozac reviews , Mood Swings , Natural Phenomenon , Natural Remedy , Natural Supplements , Pain Killers , Time Periods , Vaginal Dryness | No Comments » Menopause Symptoms And Memory  Loss. April 2nd, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Menopause Symptoms And Memory Loss . While you may experience the misery of hot flashes and mood swings as you enter menopause, one thing you can’t blame on the “change” is memory loss. In the latest study that exonerates menopause as a cause of impairing the ability to recall, Taiwanese researchers compared the memory of hundreds of women before they had any menopausal symptoms to their memory as they entered menopause. They found the women who were going through the menopausal process scored as well or nearly as well on five different cognitive function tests. Results of the study are to be presented Oct. 4 at the American Neurological Association annual meeting in Toronto. “When women go into perimenopause, they don’t need to worry about cognitive decline,” said Dr. Jong-Ling Fuh, an attending physician at Taipei Veterans General Hospital and an associate professor of Yang-Ming University School of Medicine. The researchers said the myth of memory loss during menopause is a perception some women have because as they went through menopause, they felt their memory wasn’t as sharp as it had been before. Studies suggesting that hormone replacement therapy might protect against dementia strengthened that belief. However, a large study later found that in older women, hormone replacement therapy not only didn’t help protect women from dementia, but could actually increase the risk. To try to answer the question of whether menopause did have any effect on memory, Fuh and her colleagues studied nearly 700 premenopausal women living on a group of rural islands between Taiwan and China. The Taiwanese government restricted access to these islands until the 1990s, so the authors report that the study’s population was nearly homogeneous, which would help rule out other potentially causative factors of memory loss. The women were between the ages of 40 and 54. None of them had had a hysterectomy, and none took hormone replacement therapy during the study. All took five cognitive tests designed to assess their memory and cognitive skills at the start of the study, and then again 18 months later. During the study period, 23 percent of the women began to have symptoms of menopause. The researchers then compared the memory of the women who had entered menopause to those who had not, and found very little difference. In four of the five tests, there were no statistically significant differences in the two groups of women. Only on one test was the difference statistically significant, and that difference, said Fuh, was very slight. This test was designed to assess verbal memory and involved showing the women 70 nonsensical figures. Some of the figures were repeated during the test, while most were not. The women were asked whether they had seen the figure earlier. “For women, menopause does not mean you’ll develop memory loss,” said Dr. Raina Ernstoff, an attending neurologist at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. As you’re going through perimenopause and experiencing symptoms like hot flashes, she said, you may feel lousy and have trouble sleeping, which might temporarily affect your cognitive skills. “I don’t think declining estrogen levels are what causes memory loss,” said Dr. Steven Goldstein, an obstetrician/gynecologist at New York University Medical Center in New York City. “It’s not like your memory is bopping along, doing fine and then takes this big dive during menopause, like bone density can.” Both Ernstoff and Goldstein said they weren’t aware of many women who believed that menopause might cause significant memory loss. They also both felt that results from this group of women who were so homogeneous might not apply to different groups of women, such as those living in more industrialized society. And they both said that other factors that weren’t studied could play a role in memory loss, such as hypertension, which can contribute to vascular dementia. Ernstoff also pointed out that the education backgrounds can play a large role in memory loss. Fuh acknowledged the researchers did attempt to control the data for educational differences. SOURCES: Jong-Ling Fuh, M.D., attending physician, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, and associate professor, Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan; Steven Goldstein, M.D., obstetrician/gynecologist, New York University Medical Center, and professor, obstetrics/gynecology, New York University School of Medicine, New York City; Raina Ernstoff, M.D., attending neurologist, William Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, Mich., and member, Alzheimer’s Board of Detroit; Oct. 4, 2004, presentation, American Neurological Association, Toronto. For more information visit: Menopause Symptoms And Memory Loss Grab practical info about the topic of Hosted IP PBX –   go through this web site. The times have come when concise information is truly within one click, use this possibility. Posted in Menopause | Tags: American Neurological Association , Causative Factors , Cognitive Decline , Cognitive Function , Dementia , Hormone Replacement Therapy , Hot Flashes , hysterectomy , Memory Loss , Menopausal Symptoms , Menopause , Menopause Symptoms , Mood Swings , Premenopausal Women , School Of Medicine , Taipei Veterans General Hospital , Taiwanese Government , Tests Results , Veterans General Hospital , Yang Ming | No Comments » Exercise to have Greater Comfort During Your Menopause Experience February 1st, 2010 | Author: admin signs of menopause Many females have the tendency to slow down at the time of their menopausal years and merely depend on menopause remedies like natural progesterone , however it is significantly important to be fit and active as much as possible. There are numerous arguments why regular exercise is especially important during a woman’s menopause and below are some of the top reasons: Heart disease. Menopause has been reported to exacerbate the probability of being afflicted with coronary heart disease ; however if the cardiovascular system is strengthened with regular physical activity , then the risk is significantly decreased. Physical training also promotes the health of our blood vessels so that good circulation is sustained and symptoms during menopause, such as chronic exhaustion and enervation will cease. Porous Bones or Osteoporosis.  Even though working out cannot fully block the advent of osteoporosis, it can diminish the rate in which bone density is lost, hence the condition advances at a much slower rate. It can also produce more hardy and tough ligaments, bones and tendons so that strains and breakages do not ensue quite so often. Natural hormone replacement therapy is also believed to protect against osteoporosis and is worthy of hashing out with your physician. Depressive Disorder. This is a common sign of the onset of menopause. And exercise has been proven to clear depression in many women. This is because exercise galvanizes the brain to release endorphins, which are referred to as the ‘natural high’ producing hormones for they produce a feeling of liveliness. Minor depressive disorders generated by the uncertainties of this natural condition can often be assuaged by performing some kind of exercise. Overall Feeling of Satisfaction.  Working out is great for making you feel fitter and healthier, even if you only exercise a few times each week. Plus if you are feeling more contented about yourself, then you will not be so caught up with symptoms of perimenopause . What type of exercise regimen you should do is a personal choice. However, you should aim to include a variety of aerobic routines and muscle building workouts. Cardio Training Program. This category includes any form of physical exercise that makes the speed of your heartbeat and your breathing rate to rise. Some examples of these exercises are brisk walking or aero-walking, jogging, running, swimming, biking or vigorous dancing. It also includes activities such as doing chores in the house, gardening activities, chasing after your puppy or the children and even vigorous lovemaking. In fact, whatever activity you do which causes your heart to pump faster can be described as an aerobic activity and thus it is beneficial for you. It is essential not to over-exercise however, because the potential benefits of exercise can be negated by overexertion and this will get you feeling weak and tired when you should be bright and feeling good. Muscle building Exercises This includes anything that makes your muscles work. These can be, climbing the stairs, lifting objects, stretching and muscle toning exercises and even carrying bags or heavy objects can be classified as body building even if these activities don’t technically cause your muscles to grow. Weight_lifting workouts are vital for keeping the tendons, bones, connective tissues and muscles stronger, and this in turn lessens the chance of getting bone fractures and sprains. Based on this health arguments you can see that any workout exercise undertaken during the menopause years is more desirable than not having a fitness plan. You should try to find a few fitness activities you like and alternate between these physical activities so that there is minimal chance of you getting disinterested to performing them regulary. Lastly, a moderate amount of fitness routine during the pre-menopause years can make life a lot more comfortable menopause and ‘post-menopause’; and ultimately, is it not what we ladies want? Posted in Hot Flashes , Hrt , Menopause , Night sweats , Pfizer , Prempro , cancer , chemotherapy , hormone , hot flash | Tags: Bone Density , Cardiovascular System , Coronary Heart Disease , Depressive Disorder , Depressive Disorders , Endorphins , Enervation , Heart Disease , hormone , Hormone Replacement Therapy , Liveliness , Menopause , Menopause Experience , Menopause Relief , Menopause Remedies , Menopause Symptoms , menopause weight gain , Natural Hormone Replacement , Natural Hormone Replacement Therapy , natural progesterone , natural progesterone cream , Onset Of Menopause , Porous Bones , progesterone , progesterone cream , purchase progesterone cream , Regular Physical Activity , Signs of Menopause , Symptoms Of Menopause | No Comments » Don’t Miss This breakthrough! Get Rid Of Your Menopause Discomfort! February 1st, 2010 | Author: admin The viewpoint that the explanation for all the menopause symptoms is due to an instability of hormones is a superficial understanding and requires a deeper insight. Traditional Chinese Medicine perspective: Menopause is determined a deficient characteristic of the liver and qi (life force). When the energy and blood quality is deficient and obstructed then all body organs that depend on that blood are not able to function at their best. This condition causes the liver to overheat which rises through the body, wreaking havoc in its path. The heart, lungs, digestion, glands, throat, mouth & teeth, nose, eyes, ears, brain, skin and hair become heated and dried resulting in the body heat ailments. Additionally, When the liver isn’t filtering the blood then it progresses into a clotted and sluggish. Because the body is deficient of life-giving body energy, quality filtered blood and diet, therefore the glands do not perform normally. Their glandular secretions can develop irregularly or immobilized altogether. Whereas the blood is filtered and nourished then the body’s organs thrive. Progressively, the energy comes back and they are able to function normally. The hormonal functions , secrete normally, transforming the body towards wellness. The physical body isn’t missing chemical hormones. The blood is clogged like sludge. Glands are not receiving/transmitting life-giving messages, timely and/or minimally! So therefore why do we add or provide more hormones. Doesn’t that risk an overload of hormones? Remember when you were a teen and your hormones were super revved. You won’t want to chance of experiencing that again. You have enough hormones. If you nourish your blood, keep fit, sleep, deal with stress, etc. Our hormones revive back and reenforces increased balance. So if Chinese medicine knows the problem, then what is their solution to this weakened conditioneath What Restores Usual Hormone Function? Chinese Medicine Has Had An Answer for More Than a Thousand Years! Traditional Chinese Medicine has 20+ formulas for menopause. But which one is the best? To figure this out, its necessary to consult an adept Master Herbalist. While nearly all women fall into 6 main constitution types: 1) cold 2) damp 3) deficient 4) hot 5) dry and 6) excess On the whole menopausal women benefit 95% of the time from Chinese herbs contained in Menopause Comfort. The exception is during the summertime. Particular women, who are more hot than the usual population, require a colder menopause herbs , Paramalin, to offset the surplus inner heat produced in the liver. You can look at the top 10 menopause Chinese herbs , the most effective  menopause formula, listed in more depth, at Longevity Mountain. Posted in Hot Flashes , Hrt , Menopause , Night sweats , Pfizer , Prempro , cancer , chemotherapy , hormone , hot flash | Tags: Ailments , Body Energy , Body Heat , Body Organs , Breakthrough , chinese herbs , chinese herbs for menopause , Chinese Medicine , Deal With Stress , Ears , Glands , Glandular Secretions , herbs , herbs for menopause , Hormonal Functions , Hormones , Liver , Lungs , Menopause , menopause herbs , Menopause Symptoms , Sludge , Traditional Chinese Medicine , Viewpoint , Wreaking Havoc | No Comments » Are You Suffering From Hot Flashes? January 15th, 2010 | Author: admin The most common and often the most irritating symptom associated with menopause is the hot flash sometimes called a hot flush . As many as 75 percent of women going through menopause in the United States experience hot flashes with 10% to 15% of women having severe or frequent hot flashes . I had miserable hot flashes that heated up at the most inconvenient times and sometimes flaring up every few hours. I tried every trick in the book to eliminate this miserable symptom – from herbs, to teas, to exercise, to diet, to praying hourly that they would disappear – but they persisted. With confusing and conflicting information online and in best-selling books, I teamed up with leading menopause expert and co-author of The Menopause Makeover, Dr. Wendy Klein, to get the latest scientific information on alternative, complementary and medical options to relieve hot flashes. Understanding available options will give you the opportunity to discuss menopause management with your clinician. This interview with Dr. Klein is the first in a series that addresses the various menopause symptoms. Hot Flash Interview Read the rest of this entry » Posted in Hot Flashes , Menopause , hot flash | Tags: Best Selling Books , Clinician , Co Author , Dr Klein , Dr Wendy , Extreme Heat , hot flash , Hot Flashes , Hot Flush , Inconvenient Times , Internal Core Temperature , Medical Options , Menopause , Menopause Symptoms , Profuse Sweating , Reflex , Scientific Information , Time Of The Day , Variability , Wendy Klein | No Comments » Relieve Night Sweats and Menopause Symptoms January 13th, 2010 | Author: admin Anyone of the female persuasion is perhaps already aware of the connection between night sweats and menopause . Many of us have already watched our aunts, mothers and grandmothers go through this process. Although it is a natural part of life but it is also a temporary hormonal imbalance. So far, the process of menopause can take several years in a woman’s life. And it is not something which can just be ignored. The menopause symptoms and discomforts during this time in life can be hard at best to manage. Many doctors will suggest and prescribe hormone replacement therapy or other drugs to combat the menopause symptoms. Many women feel these artificial means are potentially harmful to their health and would prefer a more natural treatment to menopause and night sweats . Fortunately many women at this life stage have found relief with hormonal supplements. Here are a few more symptoms that this type of therapy can relieve. Energy production Most women who are experiencing menopause believe that their lack of energy is usual and they must deal with feeling run down all of the time. Using an all natural hormone supplement can really help replenish the energy levels which are a part of living a happy and productive life. There is no reason to suffer in silence from lethargy and fatigue. As the hormonal imbalance has been corrected, there is no reason why women even in menopause can’t enjoy the energy levels to experience this exciting time in their lives without the menopause night sweats can introduce as well. Read the rest of this entry » Posted in Hot Flashes , Menopause , Night sweats , cancer , hormone , hot flash | Tags: Aunts , Energy Levels , Energy Production , Fatigue , Female Persuasion , Grandmothers , Health Issues , Hormonal Imbalance , Hormone Replacement Therapy , Hormone Supplement , Hormones , Lack Of Energy , Lethargy , Life Stage , Menopause , Menopause Symptoms , Muscle Health , Natural Hormone , Night sweats , Productive Life | No Comments » « Older Entries The Night Sweats Blog Finest Techniques To Avoiding The Common Cold Call For Improved Oxygen Concentrations In Body Tissues ‘It’ Bags Are The Standard Cars Of The Model Established Cheap Jordans Space Jams Boots Or Shoes Will Be An Awesome Running Shoe Price Applying AstroTurf On Top Of Regular Lawn To Strengthen Your Backyard A Brand Name Bra May Conserve You Funds Too As Giving You Convenience, Trend And Assistance! 70 – 80% Of Women Do Not Wear The Right Size Bra! Tis The Season For Flower Girl Dresses And Children’s Formal Wear Car Insurance Companies: The Cheap And The Expensive Sweating It sc341 on 17 Signs Of Menopause That Could Be Affecting Your Life And Body admin on Mattress Ticking to soak up night sweats Indiana Mattress Store on Mattress Ticking to soak up night sweats Marlin C Erie on Herbal Remedies Are They Effective? Philis Heldstab on Night Sweats – A Pointer of concealed troubles Nichole Kilimnik on Florida case could be giving Pfizer & Wyeth Night Sweats Dov on Manage Frozen Shoulder Efficiently in Three Ways Anita on How To Slash Your Prostate Cancer Risk – With Sunlight! Night Sweats Topics auto insurance Automobile Automobile Insurance cancer Candida Candida Albicans Candida Infection Candida Treatment Candida Yeast car insurance cheap car insurance clothing Fashion Fungus Garments health Hormone Replacement Therapy Hot Flashes Insurance Insurance Coverage islamic fashion menapause Menopause Menopause Symptoms Micro Organism Mood Swings Muslim Woman Muslim Women Natural cure for yeast infection Night sweats Pashmina Shawl Pashmina Shawls Physique Remedy Scarves Sleep Symptoms Of Menopause vagina Vehicle Insurance woman Yeast Infection Yeast infection cure Yeast infection cures Yeast Infections Yeast infection treatments Don’t’ Sweat it Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Contact Us | Terms of Use | Trademarks | Privacy Statement Copyright © 2009 Night Sweats - Menopause - Hot Flashes - Sleeping hot. All Rights Reserved. Powe