
Origins of Herbal Medicine: Psychology 
      Department Health Psychology Home Page Papers written by students providing scientific 
      reviews of topics related to health and well 
      being Search Home | Weight Loss | Alternative 
      Therapy | Supplements | Eating Disorders | Fitness | Links | Self-Assessment | About this Page | Herbal Medicine and Cancer By Ming-Yee Pang 9/18/2006 Cancer is the second most
common cause of death in the United States. The American Cancer Society (ACS)
estimates that half the men and one-third of the women in the United States will develop cancer in their lifetimes. The ACS also estimates that about 1.4
million Americans will be diagnosed with cancer in 2006, and about 565,000 people
will die of the disease. ( http://www.cancer.org/downloads/STT/CAFF2006PWSecured.pdf )
Of these new patients, more than 50% will participate in some forms of
alternative therapy. One of the most common alternative therapies for cancer is
herbal medicine. A national survey found that 14% of all people in the United States are using herbal medicine, yet more than 70% of these people do not tell
their physicians about what they are taking. ( http://envirocancer.cornell.edu/factsheet/diet/fs53.herbal.cfm )
This figure is worrisome because the safety and effectiveness of herbal
medicine is still not fully understood. Origins of
Herbal Medicine Herbal medicine is
     extracted from plants for use in the treatment of disease and certain
     medical conditions. It is the world’s most ancient form of medicine. Its
     use of plants for healing purposes dates all the way back to ancient
     times. For example, Chinese herbs have been used for centuries. Despite
     its long history, more than 80% of the world’s population today,
     especially those in developing countries, still rely on herbal medicine. ( http://www.surgerydoor.co.uk/level2/complementarymedicine_herbalmedicine.shtml )
     Many conventional drugs that are available today also originate from plant
     sources. For example, aspirin is derived from willow bark (Vickers, &
     Zollman, 1999). How Does Herbal
Medicine Work? Herbal medicine treats
     the whole person rather than individual symptoms. Herbal practitioners
     often see the underlying cause of an illness in terms of balance. For
     example, Chinese herbal medicine is based on the concepts of yin and yang.
     A person’s illness indicates the body’s imbalance of yin and yang forces.
     Hence, targeted at excess or deficiency in either yin or yang in an
     individual, Chinese herbs are used, often in combination, to restore the
     balance of these two life forces. ( http://www.tcmbasics.com/basics_yinyang.htm )
     Thus, herbal medicine is intended to reestablish harmony and balance in a
     person’s body because an imbalance in the body could lead to many
     illnesses. As a treatment for cancer, herbal medicine aims to bring the
     body back to a balanced state by strengthening its immune system. When the
     body is strong, it can fight against cancer, and thereby heal itself. This
     is different from traditional medicine which targets at removing the tumor
     through surgical procedures, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. ( http://www.acupuncture.com/herbs/cancerherb.htm ) Herbal medicine also
     emphasizes on the principle of synergy, which is the idea that combining
     two or more herbs together can produce a greater effect than using only
     one single herb. In addition, while one herb can help another work better,
     it can also reduce or eliminate side effects of another herb. Such
     property is known as the “buffering” effect. As a result, unlike
     conventional drugs that only contain a single active chemical, herbal
     remedies often contain many different ingredients. Below are some of the
     Chinese herbs that are often used in combination as a treatment for cancer
     listed on a world-wide web - http://www.herbsforcancer.com/herbs.html : Dong ling cao Tian men dong Ban zhi lian Ban hua she she cao Huang qin Bai zhu Yi yi ren Tu fu ling Ling zhi Ren shen Huang qi Lu gen · In addition, herbs may be used
as an adjunctive treatment for cancer. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy are
the two most common treatments for cancer in conventional medicine.
Chemotherapy is treatment of cancer with drugs that destroy cancer cells.
However, since chemotherapy target all rapidly dividing cells and are not
specific for cancer cells, they can harm healthy tissue as well. There are also
many side effects when undergoing chemotherapy, including nausea, fatigue, hair
loss, etc. Thus, chemotherapy could be very harsh on the patient’s body. Likewise,
radiation therapy is hard on the body as well. Using radiation to kill cancer
cells, radiation sometimes also damages normal cells. Moreover, patients who
are undergoing radiation therapy suffer from tremendous hair loss and other side
effects. As a result, herbs may be used as a supplemental treatment to offset
the damaging side-effects of conventional cancer treatments. They may also be
used to strengthen the patient’s immune system which is often weaken by the ongoing
and invasive radiation therapy and chemotherapy. ( http://www.acupuncture.com/herbs/cancerherb.htm ) Common
Types of Herbal Medicine Herbs can be used fresh,
dried, or as alcohol or water extracts. The most common forms available include
teas, tinctures, extracts, capsules/tablets, powders, and ointments. · Teas Herbal medicine is
traditionally taken in tea form. It is thought that human body absorbs tea
easily and quickly so it is the most commonly used method. Teas are generally
prepared by boiling the leaves, roots, and flowers of a medicinal plant in hot
water. · Tinctures In a tincture,
alcohol is used to extract the active ingredients of an herb. Alcohol is also a
very effective natural preservative. Thus, tincture can be stored for a long
period of time. Tinctures are concentrated and cost-effective. · Extracts Extracts usually
come in a liquid form, but solid extracts are also available. They can be made
with either alcohol or water. They are the most concentrated form of herbal
treatment, but have a stronger herbal taste. · Capsules and Tablets Herbs are dried
and grinded into powders. Then, powders are compressed or put in an empty pill
coating to form capsules and tablets. They tend to be less strong and potent
than tinctures and extracts. However, they often contain a standard level of
active components. · Ointments Herbs
can also be made into ointments for topical use. Why Do People Take Herbal
Medicine? · People who take herbal medicine
generally believe that herbs are natural; therefore they must be harmless
(Brigden, 1995). · Another myth is that chemicals
produced in nature are better than the same products synthesized in chemical
laboratories (Brigden, 1995). · Herbal medicine has a much lower
cost than conventional drugs and other medical procedures. Therefore, herbal
medicine attracts patients with poor medical insurance coverage
(Spaulding-Albright, 1997). · People with terminal diseases
are also more willing to take herbal medicine or engage in other alternative
treatments that can provide them with a possibility of improving quality and
quantity of life (Spaulding-Albright, 1997). · There is a growing distrust in
traditional medicine and physicians. In conventional medicine, physicians
generally focus on treating the symptoms of illnesses Such approach often makes
patients feel that they are being treated as a non-person, and that they do not
have control over their health conditions. Some patients might thereby look for
a more holistic approach, such as herbal medicine, which treats patients as a
whole person. It also provides patients with a sense of control over their
disease processes (Spaulding-Albright, 1997). Evidences
on Some of the Herbal Treatments for Cancer: · PC-SPES Claim:
To treat prostate cancer Research evidence: PC-SPES
is a recently developed herbal supplement for the treatment for prostate
cancer. It consists of eight different plant extract. A number of Phase II
studies have been conducted on PC-SPES. The largest and most
carefully-controlled study to date is a Phase II trial of PC-SPES in 70
patients with advanced prostate cancer: 33 patients with androgen-dependent
prostate cancer and 37 patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer (Small,
E. J., Frohlich, M. W., Bok, R., Shinohara, K., Grossfield, G., Rozenblat, Z.,
Kelly, W. K., Corry, M., & Reese, D. M., 2000). All participants were not
allowed to receive any new therapy within 30 days of study entry, including the
use of chemotherapy, hormonal agents, therapeutic agents, and herbal
supplements. Patients first received 320-mg capsules for one week. Of there
were no adverse reactions to the capsules, the dose was increased to 640-mg for
a week, and then to the maximum dose of 960-mg, which was equivalent to 9
capsules daily. The goals of this study were to examine the effect of PC-SPES
on Prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels in cancer patients, as well as the
toxicity of PC-SPES. Clinical outcome was assessed with PSA level measurement
and imaging studies. A response was defined as a reduction PSA levels greater
than 50% from baseline. All 32 patients with androgen-dependent prostate cancer
experienced PSA declines of greater than 80%; no patient had developed PSA
progression 64 weeks after treatment. Over half of the patients with
androgen-independent prostate cancer had a PSA decline of greater than 50%;
they developed PSA progression in a median time of 16 weeks. Although drop in
PSA levels was a good sign, imaging studies (positive bone scans) showed that
only 2 patients had tumor shrinkage. This indicated that PC-SPES was not an
effective cancer treatment. In addition, Small and his colleagues (2000) found
that PC-SPES was associated with a number of endocrine-side effects. All
patients reported a decrease in sex drive on therapy. 15 patients who could
achieve erection before therapy lost the ability to do so. PC-SPES also led to
the abnormal enlargement of breasts in all patients and hot flashes in about
one-third of patients. Although
several clinical trials showed that PC-SPES could lower PSA levels, none showed
that it could shrink prostate tumors or prolong survival in men with prostate
cancer. In addition, PC-SPES was taken off the market because of
contamination in 2002. ( http://www.cancer.org/docroot/NWS/content/NWS_1_1x_Herbal_Prostate_Cancer_Treatment_PC-SPES_Not_All_Natural.asp ) · Huanglian Some
of it claims: o To treat cancer o To treat bacterial and viral
infections o To treat respiratory and ear
infections o To treat gastrointestinal
problems Research
evidence on its efficacy as a cancer treatment: Huanglian,
also known as Coptis chinensis, is an herb that is widely used in China for inflammatory conditions and gastroenteritis. Its anti-cancer activity has been
demonstrated in previous studies. To further examine its role as an anti-cancer
agent, Li, X-K., Motwani, M., Tong, W., Bornmann, W., & Schwartz, G. K.
(2000) conducted an in-vitro study on Huanglian’s effects on tumor cell growth.
In this study, human gastric cancer cell lines, breast cancer cell lines, as
well as colon cancer cell lines were cultured using standard protocol. Cell
cultures were randomly plated onto 6-well plates and treated with drug free
media (control), or media containing 1, 10, or 100ug.ml of huanglian for five
days. Cell density was measured at day 0 (without huanglian) and at each of the
following five days. Li et al. (2000) found that huanglian completely inhibited
the growth of gastric, breast, and colon cancer cell lines after 3 consecutive
days of exposure of 10ug/ml of huanglian. The effect of hunaglian on tumor cell
growth was associated with selective suppression of cyclin B1 protein, which
resulted in the inhibition of cdc2 kinase activity – a target for cancer
chemotherapy (Li, Motwani, Tong, Bornmann, & Schwartz, 2000). Despite
encouraging results, in-vitro could not accurately reflect the safety and
efficacy of herbal medicine in human bodies. Hence, a well-controlled clinical
trial is required to study the effects of huanglian on human body, as well as
any adverse effect associated with the use of huanglian. In fact, a Phase I of
huanglian on tumor is currently underway at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center ( http://www.mskcc.org/mskcc/html/69259.cfm ). Baikal Skullcap Some
of its claims: To
      treat cancer To
      treat other medical conditions, including atherosclerosis, epilepsy,
      hepatitis, infections, inflammation, and insomnia Research
evidence on its efficacy as a cancer treatment: Baikal skullcap, also known as Scutellaria
Baicalensis, is derived from the root of the plant. The herb has been used in
traditional Chinese medicine to treat a variety of conditions. The flavonoid
components of Baikal skullcap are thought responsible for its anti-cancer
activity. An in-vitro study was conducted by Scheck, Perry, Hank, & Clark (2006) to study the anti-cancer effects of Baikal skullcap. In this study, cell lines
grown from primary and recurrent brain tumors from three patients were
cultured. Cells that were resistant to the chemotherapeutic agent 1,3-bis
(2-chloroethyl)-1 nitrosourea (BCNU) were used to identify effects of Baikal
skullcap when used alone and in conjunction with BCNU: They were treated with
either 2.5 ug/ml of BCNU alone, 50ug/ml of Baikal skullcap alone, or a
combination of both. Cells were treated for 3 consecutive days. Results were
compared to control (untreated) cells. The results of this study showed that the
anticancer activity of Baikal skullcap was evident as it inhibited cell growth
in all brain tumor cell lines; it also increased its inhibitory effect when
used in conjunction with BCNU.  Hence, results of this study support the
efficacy of Baikal skullcap as an anticancer agent for brain tumors, and also
as a potential supplementary treatment to current chemotherapeutic drugs, such
as BCNU, in treating brain tumors (Scheck, Perry, Hank, & Clark, 2006). Nonetheless,
Baikal skullcap has not been studied in clinical trials as a single agent.
Thus, it must be used with caution. Astragalus Some
of its claims: To stimulate immune
      system To reduce the severity
      of chemotherapy side effects, including immune suppression To fight bacterial
      infections To prevent and treat
      heart disease To treat other medical
      conditions, including common cold, diabetes, as well as HIV and AIDS. Research
evidence on its efficacy as a cancer treatment: Astragalus,
also known as Huang chi, has been widely used in China to stimulate the immune
system. Researchers at the University of Texas Medical Center conducted an
in-vitro study in which they found that Astragalus improved the immune system
in 13 cancer patients by 260% compared with untreated cells and by 160%
compared with cells from healthy controls. In spite of this promising result,
other studies showed that Astragalus could cause low blood pressures,
dizziness, and fatigue; overdoses could even damage the immune system (Chu,
Wong, & Mavlight, 1988, cited in Spaulding-Albright, 1997). In
a clinical trial that was designed to test whether Astragalus had an effect on
human immune system, 31 patients with end-stage kidney diseases were randomized
into two groups: the treatment group received Astragalus extract for two months,
and the other group received a placebo for two months. Compared to the placebo
group, the Astragalus group had significantly higher levels of IL-2, a
substance that stimulates the growth of immune cells and their response to
disease. However, this study did not address whether Astragalus helped patients
to fight off cancer or prolonged patients’ lives (Qun, Luo, Zhang, Chen, Zhang,
Lin, 1999) Essiac Some of its claims: To treat cancer To stimulate the immune
      system To treat HIV and AIDS Research
evidence of its efficacy as a cancer treatment: Herbal
tea Essiac has been promoted as a cure for all cancers since 1992, but there is
very little evidence to support its efficacy as a cancer treatment. In
laboratory experiments, rhubarb, one of the constituents in Essiac, was
demonstrated to cause tumor death in mice, but these effects have not been
shown in humans in the United States, In a Canadian study of 77 cancer patients
taking the herbal treatment, only eight improved their conditions; 17 died; 47
showed no effects. On the follow-up of the eight patients who showed improved
conditions, three of them developed tumor progression, two of them died, and
three remained stable. (US Government Printing Office, 1990, cited in
Spaulding-Albright, 1997) Laetrile Claim:
To treat cancer Research
Evidence: Found
in the seeds of apricots, peaches, and plums, Laetrile gained its popularity as
an alternative cancer treatment. Nonetheless, in a clinical trial, 178 cancer
patients were treated with amygdalin (Laetrile). None of the patients were in
preterminal condition before the study, and one-third of them had not received
any prior treatment. Patients were received amygdalin treatment three times a
day for 21 days. In addition, patients were placed on a metabolic therapy
consisting of diet, vitamins, minerals, and pancreatic enzyme supplementation.
Of all patients, there was only one partial response, 79% developed cancer
progression after two months and 91% by three months. Median survival was 4.8
months from initiation of therapy. In fact, 85% of the participants died within
8 months from the start of the study. Many adverse effects were also detected,
including cyanide toxicity, headache, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and mental
obtundation. The results suggest that amygdalin is ineffective in the treatment
of cancer . (Moertel, Fleming, Rubin,
Kvols, Sarna, Koch, Currie, Young, Jones, & Davignon, 1982) Mistletoe Some of its claims: To treat cancer To stimulate immune
      system To lower high blood
      pressure To treat arthritis,
      hepatitis, HIV and AIDS Research
evidence on its efficacy as a cancer treatment: There
has been a fair amount of randomized clinical trials done on mistletoe in Europe. In order to investigate whether or not these clinical trials demonstrated the efficacy
of mistletoe as a cancer therapy, Ernst, Schmidt, & Steuer-Vogt (2003)
conducted a systematic review of these trials. In reviewing ten controlled
clinical trials, researchers found that most of them were poorly designed.
While some of the weaker studies reported benefits of mistletoe in treating
cancer, all of the rigorous studies with stronger methodology and designs
failed to demonstrate efficacy of mistletoe therapy. For
example, in one of the clinical trials reviewed, Douwes and colleagues (1986)
randomized 60 patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma into three groups:
Group A was treated with chemotherapy only; Group B was treated with both
chemotherapy and mistletoe extracts; Group C was treated with chemotherapy and
xenogenic peptides (cited in Ernst, Schmidt, & Steuer-Vogt, 2003).
Researchers found that the mean survival time in groups A and B were about
twice that of group C. However, this trial was not patient-blinded. In
addition, the amount of xenogenic peptides injected, as well as the number of
chemotherapy cycles given to each group, were not reported. Hence, no sound
conclusion could be drawn from this study. In
another clinical trial, Salzer et al. (1991) randomized 218 patients with
bronchial cancer into two groups: Group A received mistletoe extracts and group
B received no extracts (cited in Ernst, Schmidt, & Steuer-Vogt, 2003). Both
groups received conventional treatments. Although the author stated that
efficacy of Mistletoe in treatment of cancer was clinically significant,
results from this study was not statistically significant. In addition, this
report provided little details on the methods used in this study. In
a more rigorous trial, Steuer-Vogt and colleagues (2001) studied a total of 477
patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Patients in the
experimental group received injections of a mistletoe extract twice a week for
12 weeks, and then patients received no mistletoe for 4 weeks (cited in Ernst,
Schmidt, & Steuer-Vogt, 2003). Three of the same cycles were given in
total. Researchers found that the use of mistletoe had no effect in the
treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Ernst, Schmidt, &
Steuer-Vogt (2003) stated that this was the most rigorous study evaluated in
this systematic review. Nonetheless, it was neither placebo-controlled nor
double-blind. Overall,
most of the clinical trials studying the effectiveness of mistletoe as a cancer
treatment have been poorly designed or lack a placebo group. Therefore, it is
still uncertain whether mistletoe works. Are Herbal
Medicine Safe? As mentioned before, many
people perceive herbal medicine as safe because of its natural appeal.
Nevertheless, that is just a myth. Almost all herbal medicines used in the United States are classified as “dietary supplements”. Hence, there is no strict regulation
on herbal medicine. For instance, manufacturers are not required to demonstrate
either the effectiveness or the safety of herbal medicines before they are
sold. If an herbal medicine is unsafe, it is the job of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) to prove this claim. Therefore, herbal medicine is less
regulated than conventional medicine (Spaulding-Albright, 1997) Problems with herbal
medicine include: 1. Since herbal
preparations are not strictly regulated, the quality and quantity of active
ingredients in an herbal product might vary between manufacturers. 2. Herbal medicine maybe
contaminated or adulterated. In Belgium, Aristolochia fangchi was misidentified
as Stephania tetrandra. Patients who were given Aristolochia fangchi as a
weight loss supplement developed severe kidney failure (Gottlieb, 2000). 3. Herbal remedies can
interact with other pharmaceutical products, such as anticancer drugs. They can
also hinder or interfere with the effects of other conventional treatments. 4. Life-threatening side
effects are occasionally associated with used of herbs. For example, Ephedra,
also known as Ma huang, was banned by the FDA due to reports of severe adverse
effects, including stroke and death ( http://nccam.nih.gov/health/alerts/ephedra/consumeradvisory.htm ). Conclusion: I n conclusion, the effectiveness of herbal medicine as
a treatment for cancer is not well-understood yet. Although many world-wide
websites claim the efficacy of herbal medicine as a cancer treatment, there is
a lack of strong evidence from clinical trials. Without consistent evidences that
come from well-designed, carefully-controlled, randomized, double-blind,
clinical trials, it is very difficult to assess the safety and efficacy of
herbal medicine. Therefore, cancer patients should be careful when they choose
to use herbal medicine. They should also inform their health care providers
about all of the herbal medicines they are taking in case these medicines might
interact with other cancer treatments. Meanwhile, researchers should continue
to conduct properly controlled clinical trial to examine the safety and
efficacy of herbal medicine as a potential cancer therapy. References: Brigden, M. L. (1995).
Unproven (Questionable) Cancer Therapies. Western Journal of Medicine ,
163, 463-469. Ernst, E., Schmidt,
K., & Steuer-Vogt, M. K. (2003). Mistletoe
for cancer? A systematic review of randomized clinical trials. International
Journal of Medicine , 107, 262-267. Gottlieb, S. (2000).
Chinese herb may cause cancer. British Medical Journal , 320, 1623. Qun, L., Luo, Q., Zhang, Z.
Y., Chen Y. C., Zhang, J. B., Lin, D. H. (1999). Effects of astragalus on
IL-2/IL-2R system in patients with maintained hemodialysis. Clinical
Nephrology , 52(5), 333-334 Li, X-K., Motwani, M.,
Tong, W., Bornmann, W., & Schwartz, G. K. (2000). Huanglian, A Chinese
herbal extract, inhibits cell growth by suppressing the expression of cyclin B1 And inhibiting
CDC2 kinase activity in human cancer cells. Molecular Pharmacology , 58,
1287-1293. Moertel, C. G., Fleming, T.
R., Rubin, J., Kvols, L. K., Sarna, G., Koch, R., Currie, V. E., Young, C. W.,
Jones, S. E.,& Davignon, J. P. (1982). A clinical trial of amygdalin (Laetrile) in the
treatment of human cancer , New England Journal of Medicine , 306(4),
201-206. Scheck, A. C., Perry, K.,
Hank, N. C., & Clark, W. D. (2006). Anticancer activity of extracts derived
from the mature roots of Scutellaria baicalensis on human malignant brain tumor cells. BMC
Complementary and Alternative Medicine , 6, 1-9. Small, E. J., Frohlich, M.
W., Bok, R., Shinohara, K., Grossfield, G., Rozenblat, Z., Kelly, W. K., Corry,
M., & Reese, D. M. (2000). Prospective trial of the herbal supplement PC-SPES in
patients with progressive prostate cancer. Journal of Clinical Oncology ,
18(21), 3595-3603. Spaulding-Albright, N.
(1997). A review of some herbal and related products commonly used in cancer
patients. Journal of the American dietetic Association , 97 (10), 2-15. Vickers, A. (2002).
Botanical Medicines for the Treatment of Cancer: Rationale, Overview of Current
Data, and Methodological Considerations for Phase I and II Trials. Cancer Investigation , 20, 1069-1079. Vickers, A., & Zollman,
C. (1999). ABC of complementary medicine: herbal medicine . British Medical
Journal , 319, 1050- 1053. http://www.cancer.org/downloads/STT/CAFF2006PWSecured.pdf http://envirocancer.cornell.edu/factsheet/diet/fs53.herbal.cfm http://www.surgerydoor.co.uk/level2/complementarymedicine_herbalmedicine.shtml http://www.tcmbasics.com/basics_yinyang.htm http://www.acupuncture.com/herbs/cancerherb.htm http://www.herbsforcancer.com/herbs.htm http://www.cancer.org/docroot/NWS/content/NWS_1_1x_Herbal_Prostate_Cancer_Treatment_PC-SPES_Not_All_Natural.asp http://www.mskcc.org/mskcc/html/69259.cfm http://nccam.nih.gov/health/alerts/ephedra/consumeradvisory.htm . Psychology 
    Department The Health Psychology Home Page is 
    produced and maintained by David Schlundt, PhD. Vanderbilt Homepage | Introduction to 
    Vanderbilt | Admissions | Colleges & Schools | Research Centers | News & Media Information | People at Vanderbilt | Libraries | Vanderbilt 
    Register | Medical 
    Center Return to the Health Psychology Home 
    