
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2012 00:26:36 GMT
Server: Apache
P3P: CP=CAO DSP CURa ADMa DEVa TAIa OUR BUS IND UNI COM NAV INT
Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=30767E59E0B413735F2AE2DA7BC65A71; Path=/
Cache-Control: max-age=0
Expires: Wed, 18 Apr 2012 00:26:36 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Quit Smoking Forever With These Little Secrets - Page History - quit smoking Sign in to wikis by wetpaint This version of Internet Explorer is no longer supported.  Please try a current version of IE or Firefox . quit smoking Home Discussions Photos Videos News Updates Members Sign in or Quit Smoking Forever With These Little Secrets | Version Compare Back to page history Version User Scope of changes May 9 2010, 11:44 PM EDT (current) krnkll65 505 words added May 9 2010, 11:44 PM EDT krnkll65 Changes Key: Additions Deletions You already know all the reasons that you need to quit smoking. The problem for many people who smoke is that they want to quit but just don't know how to go about doing it successfully. If you are a smoker who wants to quit you can find the help you need to learn the secret to stop smoking. There are many things that people have tried including nicotine patches and gum, prescription medication and hypnosis. What works for one person may not always work for another. Smoking is an addiction and like any addiction much of smoking is psychological. There is some physical addiction to smoking; however, the body typically is completely over its addiction to nicotine within about 72 hours of not smoking. The rest of the hurdle to stopping smoking is psychological. The best way to stop smoking is to learn the secret that works for you. Most people who smoke use it as a way to calm down their nerves. Smoking is usually part of the way that people that smoke deal with their feelings of stress and anxiety. If you question most smokers they will often tell you that they smoke more when they feel stress. As stress or anxiety levels are raised people who smoke often use cigarettes as a way to try to calm down. In actuality smoking effects are those of a stimulant and don't really provide any real relief from stress. There are various reasons that smokers fail when they attempt to stop smoking. It is easier to think that you can quit smoking whenever you want to than to actually try to quit smoking. The fact is that many people try to stop smoking a few times before they finally succeed. This may be because they have tried methods that just don't work for them instead of sticking to no smoking rules. It also may be that they have not yet discovered how to fill the empty void that is left when someone stops smoking. The best way to stop smoking is to learn why you smoke in the first place. Only then can you help yourself find ways to replace smoking in your life with more reasonable alternatives. If you're a smoker you know that smoking is unhealthy but you may not feel strong enough to quit without some help. The habit of smoking, like any habit, needs to be "unlearned". Habits form in as few as three weeks. As you keep performing your habit you will have a harder time stopping it. Cigarette smoking is difficult to stop just like it's hard to quit any habit. People use smoking as a way to help them to get through hard times in life. Many times people are able to quit smoking for a short time and then encounter a difficult situation and begin smoking again. quit smoking stop smoking stop smoking Want to find out more about how to quit smoking ? Visit Karen Kallmeyer's site to find reviews of different stop smoking methods. JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to contribute to this site. To start contributing, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Home Quit Smoking Forever With These Little Secrets new page (Uncategorized) start a free website Wikis on Wetpaint Contact Us Help Sitemap Privacy Terms of Service Featured Sites Glee American Idol The Bachelor Pretty Little Liars The Vampire Diaries Gossip Girl Grey's Anatomy Bones The Bachelorette Real Housewives of Beverly Hills America's Next Top Model Real Housewives of Atlanta Jers