
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 23:03:47 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 22:03:47 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gastric Bypass Surgery - Gastric Bypass Surgery May Lengthen Lifespan About.com Health Weight Loss Weight Loss Search Weight Loss Eat Right Weight Loss Programs Conquer Your Weight Share Discuss in my forum Gastric Bypass May Lengthen Lifespan (Part 2) From Jennifer R. Scott , former About.com Guide Updated December 08, 2008 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board Filed In: Weight Loss The Dartmouth-Hitchcock study is the first of its kind. No previous gastric bypass research has included statistical analyses to predict life expectancy after the procedure, however, other studies have compared mortality rates in morbidly obese patients who had gastric bypass and those who did not: "There have not been any long-term prospective weight loss studies showing increased life expectancy," stated Dr. G. Darby Pope, a resident in general surgery at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, in a news release. The study evaluated life expectancy for individuals who had gastric bypass and those who had had no treatment for morbid obesity. This study did not include morbidly obese patients who had tried other forms of weight loss (e.g. dietary manipulation or medications). The ACS press release regarding the study explained that the decision to exclude this segment of morbidly obese individuals from the study was due to the fact that most clinical trials show that patients who choose non-surgical weight loss options lose only five to 10 pounds in the first year and gain all the weight back in the next two to three years. Studies have shown patients who undergo gastric bypass lose around 70 percent of their excess body weight in the first year after surgery. "They maintain 60 percent excess weight loss for up to five years and 50 percent excess weight loss at 10 years," Dr. Pope said. 

It is important to note that this study was not a formal, randomized clinical trial. This means that in assessing longevity in groups of obese patients who are treated with gastric bypass or who serve as controls, findings are not entirely predictive. Dr. Pope cautioned: "The data from the study may be something obese patients can look at and realize that their life could be extended by this operation, but I don't think they can definitively bank on the data. This study needs to be confirmed by long-term prospective studies that follow patients for years and prove the benefit in life expectancy in real patients, not just in our statistical simulation," he explained. Suggested Reading Lap-Band Surgery All About Weight Loss Surgery Do You Qualify for WLS? Suggested Reading Risks of WLS Stomach Stapling Surgery Duodenal Switch Surgery Suggested Reading Understanding Abnormal Recovery Symptoms 25 Tips for Successful WLS Paying when Insurance Won't Related Articles Gastric Bypass May Lengthen Lifespan Gastric Bypass and Life Expectancy - Longevity and Weight Loss Surgery Gastric Bypass May Lengthen Lifespan Gastric Bypass - Lifespan Lengthened Following Gastric Bypass Results of Gastric Bypass Surgery - What are the Long Term Results of Gastr... Related Searches dartmouth hitchcock medical center hitchcock medical center excess body weight dietary manipulation morbid obesity mortality rates Explore Weight Loss Must Reads Finding the Right Diet for You BMI vs. Body Fat Percentage Weight Loss Pills and Supplements Get Diet Support from Family and Friends Keeping the Weight Off for Good Most Popular Caloric Intake Super Bowl Switches Losing Weight 8 Easy Ways to Lose Weight Peanut Butter By Category Count Calories Weight Loss Basics Healthy Eating Eating Out Nutrition About Diets Emotional Eating Exercise  for Weight Loss Obesity & Health Children & Teens Weight Loss Surgery Glossary Weight loss blog Weight Loss About.com Health Weight Loss Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod