P3P: CP="NOI DSP COR NID CUR OUR NOR", policyref="/w3c/p3p.xml"
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture Websites Resources | Health News | Therapies | Fitness Acupuncture Websites Internet Sites Acupuncture.com Information on traditional Oriental therapies, resources, links, etc. American
	Academy of Medical Acupuncture Has information, referral lists, reference material, etc. American College of Acupuncture & Oriental Medicine ACAOM offers comprehensive program in acupuncture and herbal medicine.  Strong clinical program available in mainstream environment. British Medical Acupuncture
	Society An association of medical practitioners interested in acupuncture. This site
	includes a section on dentists and vets, offers courses, has a journal ,
	etc. Jung Tao School of Chinese Studies A source of information on classical Chinese medical theory, taijiquan and
	daoist philisophical interests. Includes an "Acupuncture Forum". Qi Journal's
	Interactive Acupuncture Chart Zoom in on various acupuncture points. Acupuncture
	FAQ Common
	Uses of Acupuncture Anxiety
	and Acupuncture Sciatica
	and Acupuncture Back Pain
	and Acupuncture Information on acupuncture and back pain results using the therapy as a method of treatment. Articles Tools AcuPoints
	in Acupunture Locate an Acupuncturist Research on Acupuncture Side Effects Anxiety Arthritis Back Pain Depression Fibromyalgia Hypertension Insomnia Pregnancy Stress Weight Loss Description || Websites last update:  February 2009 This information is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice. You should not use this material to diagnose or treat a health condition or disease without consulting with your healthcare provider. Privacy Policy © 1998-2012 Personal Health Zone Click above for Service Agreement and Contact Information. Accessing this service binds you to terms stated.  Advertisements appear throughout this website as a means of funding the site. This site is updated monthly and operates independently of any health associations or organizations.  The owner of this site has no medical training and the information presented comes from government resources and health professionals in their respected fields. Home Page: Personal Health Zone We comply with the HONcod