Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 10:06:16 GMT
X-Varnish: 1396636508
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

UCSF study to examine whether probiotics can prevent asthma in children | www.ucsf.edu Home About About UCSF Achievements Areas of Excellence Chancellor History UCSF in the Community More Patient Care Find a Doctor Request an Appointment UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital UCSF Dental Center UCSF Medical Center Conditions & Treatments More Research Research Excellence Major Research Initiatives Clinical Trials Research Partnerships More Education School of Dentistry School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Pharmacy Graduate Division More News Center Latest News Media Coverage For Journalists For Faculty Support UCSF Students Faculty/Staff Text Size + – Go UCSF People Home > News Center Follow UCSF on: Share UCSF study to examine whether probiotics can prevent asthma in children Share this story: Share Print By Phyllis Brown on May 12, 2006 In the first effort of its kind in the United States, researchers at the University of California, San Francisco have launched a study to determine whether giving active probiotic supplements to infants can delay or prevent asthma in children. The intervention is a novel method for the primary prevention of asthma with enormous potential to have a public health impact, said Michael Cabana, MD, chief of the Department of General Pediatrics at UCSF Children’s Hospital and principal investigator for the study. There currently are no known ways to prevent asthma, he said. “It would be a great thing to be able to prevent asthma,” Cabana said. “We believe that using probiotics is a safe and effective way to do that.” Probiotics are defined as micro-organisms administered in adequate amounts to confer beneficial health effects. They typically are chosen from bacteria that normally inhabit the gastrointestinal system and are therefore known to be safe. Asthma is one of the most common chronic diseases of childhood and the most common cause of school absenteeism. Asthma is an inflammation of the bronchial tubes that causes airway obstruction, chest tightness, coughing and wheezing. Called the Trial of Infant Probiotic Supplementation to Prevent Asthma, or TIPS, the study is based on the “hygiene hypothesis,” which says that little or no exposure to bacteria and viruses during a critical period of infancy can lead to an imbalance in the immune system and result in diseases such as asthma, especially in high-risk groups, like children with parents who have asthma. The study seeks to determine whether stimulating the immune system by giving an active probiotic supplement, Lactobacillus GG, can prevent or delay the appearance of early signs of asthma, such as wheezing, frequent runny nose, and eczema. Lactobacillus GG is a common bacterium found in yogurt and many other foods and often is given to treat diarrhea. The three-year study will include about 280 healthy full-term babies with either a mother or a father with asthma, because parents with asthma are more likely to have children with asthma. During the first six months of life, half of the infants will receive a once-daily dose of active Lactobacillus GG and half will receive a placebo. The babies will be followed for three years, with six follow-up visits at UCSF Children’s Hospital or an outpatient center starting at one month old. Researchers will analyze the data from the visits to see if the active supplements prevented or delayed the appearance of the early signs of asthma. Cabana said a similar study conducted in Finland found that administration of Lactobacillus to infants delayed or prevented the onset of eczema. According to the American Lung Association, an estimated 4 million children under 18 years old have had an asthma attack in the past 12 months, and many others have “hidden” or undiagnosed asthma. Other study co-investigators include Joan Hilton, ScD; Cewin Chao, MS, RD, MBA; Homer Boushey, MD; Lawrence Fong, MD, PhD; and Aaron Brandon Caughey, MD, MPP, MPH, all of UCSF. The study is being supported through a grant from the National Institutes of Health. The TIPS study is currently recruiting women who are pregnant and have a history of asthma or a partner with asthma to participate in the study. To find out more about the study, visit Tips Asthma Research ; call 1-866-913-TIPS, or e-mail TIPS@ucsf.edu UCSF is a leading university that consistently defines health care worldwide by conducting advanced biomedical research, educating graduate students in the life sciences, and providing complex patient care. Share this story: Share Print Most-Read News Researchers Tell Toxic Truth About Sugar UCSF Saves Former Gymnast's Life ALS Center's Founding Director Felled by That Disease Male and Female Behavior Deconstructed Related News Paul Volberding Takes Leading Roles with UCSF’s ARI, Global Health Sciences February 17, 2012 UCSF to Host Alumni Weekend and Reunions in April February 17, 2012 UCSF School of Dentistry to Offer Free Dental Care for Children February 17, 2012 Parnassus Avenue Construction to Run Through July February 16, 2012 UCSF to Establish Chancellor’s First-Year Graduate Fellowship Program February 15, 2012 Stem Cell Study in Mice Offers Hope for Treating Heart Attack Patients February 15, 2012 Subscribe Give to UCSF Be a part of the next generation of care and discovery. With your support, UCSF can change the health of the world. Make a Gift Explore UCSF News IN MEMORIAM UCSF ALS Center's Founding Director Dies of the Disease He Studied CLINICAL RESEARCH New Lung Cancer Test Predicts Survival In the two largest clinical studies ever conducted on the molecular genetics of lung cancer, an international team led by scientists at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) has demonstrated that an available molecular test can predict the likelihood of death from early-stage lung cancer more accurately than conventional methods. EDUCATION UCSF's New Dean Wants to Raise Profile of Graduate Education BIOINFORMATICS UCSF School of Medicine Leaders Explore Bioinformatics Bioinformatics was the focus of this year’s daylong UCSF School of Medicine leadership retreat on January 20. Campus leaders examined the question of how to optimally develop, organize and integrate clinical-outcome data, research data, business intelligence, and population data. Home Home | Site Map | Contact Us | Accessibility | Terms of Use | A-Z Website List Feedback The University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143, 415-476-9000 © 2012 The R