
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 19:59:13 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

EngenderHealth : Opportunities and Challenges for Male Circumcision in HIV Prevention Donate Now About Us Careers Blog eNewsletter Contact Us Print This Page Share This Page Our Work Overview Quality, Rights, and Change Overview Every Minute Counts Engaging Men in Reproductive Health Key Family Planning Insights Millennium Development Goals Advancing Family Planning Overview Informed Choice and Consent Long-Acting and Permanent Methods Vasectomy Integration with HIV and AIDS Services Maternal Health Anti-Prostitution Pledge Overview Maternal Health Task Force Fistula Postabortion Care Eclampsia and Pre-Eclampsia Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission Essential & Emergency Obstetric Care Postpartum Hemorrhage Cervical Cancer HIV, AIDS, and STIs Overview Reducing Stigma and Discrimination HIV Care and Treatment Integrating HIV and Other Reproductive Health Services Men As Partners® Male Circumcision Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission Cervical Cancer Engaging Men As Partners in Reproductive Health Overview Men As Partners® MenEngage Partnering with Youth Overview Improving Clinical Quality Overview COPE® Infection Prevention Advocacy and Policy Overview Top 5 Actions for the New Administration Major Projects Overview The ACQUIRE Tanzania Project The AWARE II Project The CHAMPION Project Fistula Care Male Circumcision Consortium Maternal Health Task Force The R3M Project The RESPOND Project Recent Projects Success Stories Success Stories Our Countries Overview Africa Angola Burkina Faso Côte d’Ivoire Democratic Republic of the Congo Ethiopia Ghana Guinea Mali Kenya Niger Nigeria Rwanda Sierra Leone South Africa Tanzania Togo Uganda Asia and Near East Bangladesh India Nepal The Americas By Alphabet Recent Countries Azerbaijan Benin Bolivia Brazil Cameroon Cape Verde Chad China Gambia Guatemala Guinea-Bissau Liberia Mozambique The Philippines Namibia Ukraine Vietnam Publications and Resources Overview Family Planning Overview Vasectomy Female Sterilization Reversible Methods HIV, AIDS, and Sexually Transmitted Infections Maternal Health Overview Obstetric Fistula Obstetric and Delivery Care Postabortion Care Postpartum Hemorrhage Counseling, Informed Choice, and Informed Consent Improving Clinical Quality Overview COPE® Self-Assessment Process Facilitative Supervision Quality Improvement at the Service Site Promoting Gender Equity Overview How to Order Publications Media Center Overview In the News Links to Media Items Press Releases & Announcements Online Videos YouTube and Social Networks Contact Us What You Can Do Overview Support Us Donate Now Become a Member Give Stock Become a Partner for a Better Life Give the Gift of Membership Leave a Legacy of Hope Shop for EngenderHealth Celebrate Mothers and Families The EngenderHealth Store IRA Charitable Rollover Stay Connected Advocate for Change Change the World Subscribe to Action Alerts YouTube and Social Networks Members Become a Member Give the Gift of Membership Account Login Home : Media Center : Press Releases & Announcements : Opportunities and Challenges for Male Circumcision in HIV Prevention Home Help us create change that lasts, delivering quality health care in the world’s poorest communities. NEW YORK, April 4, 2007 —EngenderHealth voiced strong support today for the recent statement by the World Health Organization and UNAIDS recommending male circumcision as an additional important tool to reduce the risk of heterosexually acquired HIV infection in men. This endorsement is based on evidence from three recent studies finding that male circumcision reduces HIV infection among men by approximately 60%. The findings bring both great opportunities and important challenges for countries as they introduce this new prevention technology. While this is a significant step forward, implementing male circumcision services will heighten the need to strengthen health systems, integrate male circumcision with other health services, counsel men and their sexual partners, and respect clients’ human rights. Drawing on more than 60 years’ experience in strengthening health systems worldwide, EngenderHealth stresses that national governments must ensure that male circumcision is performed safely by well-trained practitioners, in hygienic settings, and under conditions of informed consent, confidentiality, and risk reduction counseling. In addition, it is critical that adequate equipment and supplies are readily available and that new services are monitored and evaluated. As the international donor community and organizations move to support male circumcision, countries with high HIV prevalence, generalized heterosexual HIV epidemics, and low rates of male circumcision should give serious and urgent consideration to scaling up access to male circumcision services. These services should be offered free of charge or at the lowest possible cost to the client, as with other essential health services. “This is indeed a significant breakthrough for HIV prevention,” said Paul Perchal, Director of the HIV/STI Program at EngenderHealth. “But male circumcision is not a magic bullet. It is one tool in a combination of preventive approaches, including voluntary HIV counseling and testing services, treatment for sexually transmitted infections, promotion of safer sex practices, and the provision of male and female condoms.” Based on EngenderHealth’s experience in the successful introduction of no-scalpel vasectomy in many different countries, linking male circumcision with other health services whenever possible can prevent disruption of other health programs and achieve greater success and sustainability. In addition, integrating services offers a unique opportunity to reach men and their partners with a range of other health services and information. Because male circumcision does not provide complete protection from infection with HIV, counseling for men and their partners is especially critical to prevent men from developing a false sense of security after being circumcised and then engaging in high-risk behaviors. By employing innovative approaches to engage men in reproductive health and HIV/AIDS programs, EngenderHealth’s Men As Partners® Program has proven that interventions such as counseling result in measurable changes in men’s behavior and attitudes. When accessing circumcision services, men should be targeted by similar programs, where they can learn more about how to prevent HIV, reduce gender-based violence, and ensure the health of their families and communities. Male circumcision services should also be provided in a culturally sensitive manner, based on medical ethics and human rights. About EngenderHealth EngenderHealth works to improve the health and well-being of people in the poorest communities of the world. We do this by sharing our expertise in sexual and reproductive health and transforming the quality of health care. We promote gender equity, advocate for sound practices and policies, and inspire people to assert their rights to better, healthier lives. Working in partnership with local organizations, we adapt our work in response to local needs. EngenderHealth currently supports projects in 40 countries throughout Asia, Africa, and Latin America. EngenderHealth and HIV/AIDS For more than a decade, EngenderHealth has applied its expertise in sexual and reproductive health to create comprehensive and locally relevant programs that expand and improve access to HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment. Partnering with public, private, nongovernmental, and community partners in 13 countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe, EngenderHealth works to strengthen the skills of health workers to provide high-quality clinical care and services; to reduce women’s vulnerability to HIV infection; to engage men in HIV/AIDS services; to build the capacity of networks of people living with HIV; and to challenge HIV/AIDS stigma in the health sector. EngenderHealth emphasizes local capacity-building through sustainable training and quality improvement programs and the involvement of people living with HIV. Media Contacts Theresa Kim, 212-993-9834 ### © 2011 EngenderHealth, all rights reserved. Read our terms of use and privacy policy . Vis