<http://www.stayclassy.org/stories/?p=11037>; rel=shortlink

Gene Therapy Approach Shows Promise for Treating Beta-Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease | Classy Achievements 4th Annual Classy Awards Nominate About History Benefits Impact Past Winners About StayClassy Stories National South West East Midwest Categories & Process Process Categories Rules Who's Involved? Leadership Council Sponsors & Partners Classy Awards Weekend Details Travel National All Charities Creative Fundraisers Awareness Campaign Innovative Use of Social Media Small Charities New Charity Individuals Young Professional Volunteers College Students Businesses Northeast All Charities Creative Fundraisers Awareness Campaign Innovative Use of Social Media Small Charities New Charity Young Professional Volunteers Individuals College Students Businesses South All Charities Creative Fundraisers Awareness Campaign Innovative Use of Social Media Small Charities New Charity Young Professional Volunteers Individuals College Students Businesses Midwest All Charities Creative Fundraisers Awareness Campaign Innovative Use of Social Media Small Charities New Charity Young Professional Volunteers Individuals College Students Businesses West All Charities Creative Fundraisers Awareness Campaign Innovative Use of Social Media Small Charities New Charity Young Professional Volunteers Individuals College Students Businesses About the Event Submit Achievement Gene Therapy Approach Shows Promise for Treating Beta-Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease Share data-text=”Gene Therapy Approach Shows Promise for Treating Beta-Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease” data-url=”http://www.stayclassy.org/stories/gene-therapy-approach-shows-promise-for-treating-beta-thalassemia-and-sickle-cell-disease” data-via=”"  > Pin It Thalassemias are the world’s most common genetic blood disorders. Currently, 7% of the world’s population is a carrier and 400,000 affected babies are born each year. It is predicted that these statistics will double within the next few decades. Thalassemia is an inherited blood disorder in which the body makes an abnormal form of hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The disorder results in excessive destruction of red blood cells, which leads to anemia. Treatment for patients with thalassemia involves lengthy blood transfusions every four to six weeks for a patient’s whole life. These transfusions can also cause many complications, like an overload of iron build up in vital organs which can cause diabetes, liver disease and heart failure. Because of these complications, people who receive a significant number of blood transfusions also need a treatment called chelation therapy to remove excess iron from the body. Since its founding in 1952, the Children’s Cancer & Blood Foundation (CCBF) has supported the research of thalassemia and blood disorders at the Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. CCBF has helped to revolutionize the treatment of blood disorders and has witnessed the life expectancy of patients with thalassemia increase from 12 years to a full life. It has been the foundation’s goal to provide education about the disease in order to raise awareness, encourage people to get tested, spread knowledge about comprehensive treatment and raise funds to support research into finding a cure. This year, with CCBF support, a team of researchers led by CCBF scientist Dr. Stefano Rivella has designed a powerful gene therapy strategy that can treat both beta-thalassemia disease and sickle cell anemia. They have also developed a test to predict patient response before treatment. This study’s findings represent a new approach to treating these related, and serious, red blood cells disorders.’This gene therapy technique has the potential to cure many patients, especially if we prescreen them to predict their response using just a few of their cells in a test tube,’ says Dr. Stefano Rivella. More About This Charity Region Northeast Category Health and Well Being Name Children’s Cancer and Blood Foundation Mission The Children’s Cancer & Blood Foundation’s mission is threefold: to support the comprehensive clinical care of children living with cancer and blood disorders, to foster research to help understand the causes of childhood cancer and blood disorders, and to sponsor the fellowship training of pediatricians of the subspecialty of pediatric hematology and oncology. Impact CCBF helped to fund ground breaking research and discovery CCBF raised $1,454,852 in the past year to support research and provide education Works In United States Learn More http://www.childrenscbf.org/ Learn More → Share data-text=”Gene Therapy Approach Shows Promise for Treating Beta-Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease” data-url=”http://www.stayclassy.org/stories/gene-therapy-approach-shows-promise-for-treating-beta-thalassemia-and-sickle-cell-disease” data-via=”"  > Pin It The Classy Awards The CLASSY Awards is the largest philanthropic awards ceremony in the country, celebrating the greatest charitable achievements by nonprofit organizations, socially conscious businesses, and individuals worldwide. In 2011, nearly 2,000 organizations and volunteers were nominated for a CLASSY Award, and their collective efforts impacted the lives of more than 200,000,000 people in 71 countries worldwide. " Hollywood has Oscar, Broadway has Tony, and now Philanthropy has the CLASSYs! " Home About History Benefits Impact Past Winners About StayClassy Nominate Who's Involved Leadership Council Sponsors & Partners Stories National West Mid West East South Categories & Process Process Categories Rules Awards Weekend Collaborative Details Ceremony Details Travel Arrangements © 2012 StayClassy, All Rights Reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Copyright Policy Stay Connected Subscribe to our Newsletter and receive weekly charitable achievements Close Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google Plus StayClassy.org Creat