
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 11:54:56 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

The Cranberry and Urinary Tract Infections : FurtherHealth.com The Cranberry & UTI's Cranberry UTI Prevention The Cranberry and Urinary Tract Infections As discussed in the previous article cranberries have enormous medicinal value. These
berries are not just good to eat; they also contain different kinds
of chemicals that are nutritious. While the people in the 17th
century and thereabouts knew generally the basic medicinal values of
cranberries (the East Europeans even believed it to have the ability
to cure cancer), research today has discovered other medicinal
benefits that we can derive from cranberries. In this article, we will discuss in detail some of the medicinal values of cranberries.
Cranberries have been found to be effective in battling urinary tract
inflammation, oral disease, as well as even heart ailments. Here we
will see how cranberries help prevent Urinary Tract Infection (UTI). All fruits are generally good for our health. They have in them different chemical
components which help us remain fit by either directly preventing
disease, i.e. by enhancing our immune system, or by working out a
mechanism that prevents diseases from happening. While different food products or plants work in different ways, cranberries have their own
way of reducing the risk of illness in the human body. Cranberries and Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) One of the biggest and most widely health benefits of eating cranberries, in whatever form,
either as whole fruit or juice or cocktail, is that it helps prevent
urinary tract infection (UTI). While this was what our elders passed
on to us as traditional oral medicinal knowledge, it is now
recognized as official medical fact. The Mechanism of an Infection How does an infection, of whichever body part it may be, occur usually? This is how the
mechanism works. The infection is basically caused by bacteria. The
bacteria latch on to the surface or lining of the cells of different
body parts. Once they are attached to the lining of the specific body
part in question, they feed off the cells or the surface or the
lining they are attached to, and increase their numbers by
reproducing, and in the process cause infections. In the case of UTI,
this process happens in the lining of the urinary tract. Misconceptions about how Cranberries help prevent UTI So where do cranberries come into the picture, as far as stopping this process is concerned?
Initially, researchers went off-track when they figured that the
cranberries’ ability to prevent UTI was because of its acidity.
Later on, this misconception was cleared by Dr. Amy Howell, a
scientist working with Rutgers University. She said that cranberries
prevent UTI by preventing the bacteria causing UTI from attaching
itself to the surface of the urinary tract lining. Amy Howell
published this discovery in the New England Journal of Medicine in
1998. Her research shows that cranberries are basically rich in proanthocyanidins.
Proanthocyanidins are tannins, a type of organic chemical compound,
that have been condensed. This is how it works. The proanthocyanidins
have their own specific way of functioning – they are blockers
that block the bacteria from attaching themselves to the surface of
the lining of the specific body part in question. In the case of UTI,
the proanthocyanidins prevent the bacteria from getting glued to the
lining of the urinary tract. Cranberry Urinary Tract Infection Prevention >> Ask a Question about this health topic: Email Address: Your Question: Topics Home Further Health Blog Angina Asthma Atrial Fibrillation Birthmarks Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cataracts Cervical Spondylitis Diabetes Eating Disorders Eczema Healthy Foods Hemorrhoids Living Healthily Obesity & Weight Loss Palpitations Rheumatoid Arthritis Rosacea Sleep Apnea Snoring Yoga and Ayurveda The material found on this website is in no way intended to replace professional medical care or attention by a qualified practitioner. This information cannot and should not be used as a basis for diagnosis or choice of medical treatment. FurtherHealth.com recommends that all users with health problems should consult a doctor. The materials contained in this web site are presented for information 