
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Red Hat)
Vary: Accept-encoding
Expires: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 05:33:54 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=0, no-cache, no-store
Pragma: no-cache
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 05:33:54 GMT
Connection: close
Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=QRQG1UC2TDOCCCUUCAQSFEY; path=/
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Longmont High student diagnosed with whooping cough - Longmont Times-Call Mobile | eEdition | Circulation Customer Care | Submit | Email Newsletter | Advertising/Contact Us | RSS This Site Web Search powered by YAHOO! search Home News Local News Schools Business Carbon Valley Colorado News Community Elections 2011 Boulder County Fair Nation & World Veterans Where Are They Now Crime Map Your News News Tips Newspaper in Education Business Local Business National/World Business Business Columnists Sports Local Sports BocoPreps College Sports Pro Sports Buffzone Lifestyles Entertainment Food Health Healthy Lifestyles Faith Faith directory Magazines Beet of Longmont Games Comics Horoscopes Art in Public Opinion Editorial TC Line Calls Polls Letters Milestones Anniversaries Births Engagements Obituaries Weddings Columnists Johnnie St. Vrain Rocky Mountain Gamer From My Deck How's Business Johnnie's Blog Can you See? Mommy Musings Unframed Multimedia TimesCallMedia.com Readers' Photos Submit Reader Photos Classifieds Submit an ad Find a Car Auto Classifieds Jobs Coupons Real Estate Open Houses Real Estate Classifieds Business Directory Local News Print Email Font Resize Longmont High student diagnosed with whooping cough By John Fryar Times-Call staff timescall.com Posted:
						 
						02/18/2012 03:46:17 PM MST February 19, 2012 3:16 AM GMT Updated:
								 
								02/18/2012 08:16:11 PM MST LONGMONT -- Longmont High School students' parents were notified by email Saturday that a student at the school recently was diagnosed with pertussis, also known as whooping cough. The emailed letter, from Boulder County Public Health, emphasized that the illness "is not related to the recent tuberculosis case and does not put your student at increased risk for developing tuberculosis infection." But Boulder County Public Health officials are recommending that parents consult their health care providers if they think their children are developing symptoms of pertussis -- which the county department on its website says is a highly contagious respiratory disease spread by coughing and sneezing. Symptoms include: Learn more Read more about whooping cough at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's website. * Cold-like symptoms in the first week of illness, such as a runny nose or sore throat, * Severe coughing starting in the second week of the illness and continuing for up to three months, * Gagging or vomiting between coughing episodes, * Coughing at night. An individual with whooping cough may, however, "look or feel fine between coughing episodes and may not have a fever," the letter advises. Boulder County Public Health said that if the student does turn out to have pertussis, he or she will need to remain out of school until five full days of antibiotic treatment have been completed. St. Vrain Valley School District spokesman John Poynton said Saturday night that the district sent the letter to parents on behalf of the county health department and that he didn't know when the student was diagnosed as having whooping cough. But he said it's his understanding that the student "is under the care of medical professionals." The whooping cough advisory comes on the heels of a January announcement that a Longmont High School student had been diagnosed with tuberculosis, which is contagious, and testing that -- as of Monday -- had turned up positive results for latent TB, which is not contagious, in another 54 or 55 of the first 124 students and staff who'd shared classes with the ill student. Last week, it was announced that all students and staff at Longmont High would be tested for TB. Poynton said no such diagnostic testing -- either a sample of students and staff, or a school-wide test -- is planned in the wake of the diagnosed case of whooping cough. "The district is grateful for all of the cooperation and understanding that people have shown the school and each other as we get through these situations," Poynton said. Boulder County Public Health officials said in their letter to the Longmont High parents that "after several years of decreased incidence of pertussis in Boulder County, pertussis has been increasing in both Boulder County and the state of Colorado this winter." In 2010, there were 540 reported pertussis cases in Colorado, including 19 in Boulder County, according to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. Last year, there were 419 reported cases statewide, including 16 Boulder County. State health officials said there were 39 reported pertussis cases in Colorado from Jan. 1 through Jan. 21 of this year -- the most recent statistics available -- including six in Boulder County. "It is important to know that pertussis can occur in fully immunized individuals," Boulder County Public Health said in the letter emailed to Longmont High School parents. "It strikes older children and adults largely because the immunity gained from childhood immunizations decreases over time." County health officials advised parents to review their children's immunization records with their health care providers to ensure the students are up to date with the recommended schedule. Parents should make an appointment for a tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis Tdap vaccine for anyone in the household over the age of 10, to protect against the illness in the future. The letter cited the importance of following health officials' recommended steps to prevent the spread of whooping cough to infants and young children. "In younger children, pertussis can be very severe, including hospitalization, seizures, long-term neurological problems and death," Boulder County Public Health said. "The risk of disease is especially high in infants who have not yet had the opportunity to complete the primary series of four doses of pertussis vaccine." The county health department says on its website that whooping cough is a serious illness that can cause problems such as pneumonia, seizures, brain damage and even death for young children and babies. Parents with further questions or concerns can call Boulder County Public Health's Communicable Disease Program at 303-413-7500. Said Poynton about that phone number: "With so many viruses going around, and hacking and sneezing and general illnesses, people can call and discuss the symptoms" with Boulder County Public Health officials. John Fryar can be reached at 303-684-5211 or jfryar@times-call.com . Copyright 2012 Longmont Times-Call.  All rights reserved. Print Email Font Resize Return to Top Article ID: loading... e-Edition access Print subscribers and others wishing to subscribe to the E-Edition please call 303-684-5358. If already an E-Edition subscriber, go to www.timescallcustomercare.com . Updated: February 18, 2012 Boulder County commissioner candidates focus on fracking Longmont police crunch data to target crime hot spots Longmont's Alleyscape on the way Hundreds plunge into frigid Boulder Reservoir for Special Olympics Los Arcos de Longmont's moving will kick off Alleyscape project Police Notes: Traffic stop leads to drug summonses Man, 64, dies while snowshoeing in Rocky Mountain National Park Longmont High student diagnosed with whooping cough Louisville Rep. Jones having a hard time being heard in the House Longmont residents can learn about utility bill savings Most Viewed Most E-Mailed (From the last 12 hours) Poll: Drug tests for welfare recipients Longmont High student diagnosed with whooping cough Longmont woman relieved she will not pay extra fees to keep... Denver man pleads guilty to kidnapping hikers near Nederland Louisville Rep. Jones having a hard time being heard in the House Rachel Crow already has career options Longmont's Comida food truck now a brick-and-mortar restaurant, too Boulder attorney urges some medical marijuana shops to move Longmont, Boulder meth supply could be slowed by Mexican bust EPA wants further review of Windy Gap water-diversion project to... (From the last 12 hours) No data currently available. Popular Searches Apartments in Longmont Attorneys in Longmont Auto Dealers in Longmont Auto Parts in Longmont Auto Repair in Longmont Beauty Salons in Longmont Car Rental in Longmont Dentists in Longmont Doctors in Longmont Flowers in Longmont Hotels in Longmont Insurance in Longmont Loans in Longmont Mortgages in Longmont Movers in Longmont Pizza in Longmont Realtors in Longmont Restaurants in Longmont Storage in Longmont Tax Preparation in Longmont Travel in Longmont Featured More... Powered by Local.com Longmont Times-Call & timescall.com | 350 Terry St.
                Longmont, Colo. 80501 | 303-776-2244  | Contact Us Social Media: Longmont Times-Call on Facebook | Follow us on Twitter | Watch us on YouTube | About Our Ads Copyright Notice | Privacy Policy | Subscriber Services | Site Map | RSS Weather Data CustomWeather, Inc | © Copyright Media News group Tweet Visit our other Prairie Mountain Publishing websites: DailyCamera.com (Boulder, CO) | ColoradoDaily.com (Boulder, CO) | TimesCall.com (Longmont, CO) | ReporterHerald.com (Loveland, CO) | BroomfieldEnterprise.com (Broomfield, CO) | DenverPost.com (Denver, CO) | EPTrail.com (Estes Park, CO) | CanonCityDailyRecord.com (Canon City, CO) | LamarLedger.com (Lamar, CO) | FortMorganTimes.com (Fort Morgan, CO) | BrushTribune.com (Brush, CO) | AkronNewsReporter.com (Akron, CO) | JulesburgAdvocate.com (Julesburg, CO) | Burlington-Record.com (Burlington, CO) | Journal-Advocate.com (Sterling, CO) | Women's Magazine | WheelsColorado.com | Buffzone.com | MyTownColorado.com | CameraHomes.com | BoulderCountyGold.com | ScottLeeKimball.com - View all Media News Group websites Privac