
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 10:38:10 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.0-fips mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
X-Pingback: http://30daydiabetescure.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Day 2 | The 30-Day Diabetes Cure Home The Book Video Coaching Program Diabetes Healing Cookbook Free Report The Authors Dr Stefan Ripich Jim Healthy Diabetes Healing Articles Diabetes Busters Journal Testimonials Multimedia Contact Day 2 Day 2: Susannah I have to make a confession now. I didn’t wait for Day Two to incorporate cinnamon into my diet. I had it on my yogurt on Day One. Tasty, and with a few (continued…) Read More TAGS: cinnamon , Day 2 , vegetables Michael: Day 2 Day 2. Add Cinnamon Now here was something I could do very easily. I love cinnamon….but now what do I put it on? Thankfully the chapter had some good ideas on how to (continued…) Read More TAGS: cinnamon , Day 2 , diabetes blog , diabetes busters Sign up for our Diabetes Healing Secrets newsletter Get a FREE Diabetes Special Report plus the latest news, information, advice and recipes to help you get off your drugs and truly heal your Diabetes. First Name * Email * Subscribe Me We respect and honor your privacy. See our Privacy Policy . Sign up for our FREE Diabetes Healing Secrets newsletter and get this FREE GIFT Get this FREE Diabetes Special Report -- plus the latest news, information, advice and recipes to help you get off your drugs and heal your diabetes in our FREE Diabetes Healing Secrets newsletter. First Name required Email required Subscribe Me We respect and honor your privacy. See our Privacy Policy . A Diabetes Hero Like Us on Facebook! Connect with Us! Diabetes Healing Articles Diabetes Medicine is #2 Cause of Seniors’ ER Visits The Skinny on Best Treatments for Obese Folks The Truth About Paula Deen’s Diabetes When Secret Sugar Addiction Is a Big Problem Stand Up…for Your Health The information on this site is intended solely for general educational purposes, and it is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition or before making changes to your medication program, diet, or exercise regimen. Reliance on any information provided on this site is solely at your own risk. Terms & Privacy | Support | Affiliate Program Copyright © 2012 The 30-Day Diabetes Cure. All Rights Reserved. Site Admin . Part of Jim Healthy’s Healing Network My Healing Kitchen Arthritis Interrupted Get our Diabetes