Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Psoriasis Remedy | Honey and Propolis of Natural Psoriasis Remedy Stay Natural Guide Treatments All About Psoriasis Psoriasis Types Locations For Hypertension Resources Natural Psoriasis Remedy Health and Natural Psoriasis Remedy - Honey and Propolis The natural psoriasis remedy, honey play a supporting role on the treatment of psoriasis. Bachelors prove that honey can help in gastrointestinal function conditioning, so control gastric acid secretion in general. Honey contains a variety of enzymes and minerals, can enhance the body’s immune system. It can invigorate kidney, spleen, intestines, and lungs. Furthermore, it improves the movement of bowel which can avoid constipation. Honey has a high nutritional value, able to prevent inflammatory, expectorate and cough. These are contributed to the recovery of psoriasis. Honey also can alleviate nervous tension, promote sleep and can play a role of relieving pain. Honey as a tonic food is suitable for patients to consume. Share two ways of natural psoriasis remedy of honey with you In the following: Honey remedies for psoriasis I: Fresh Royal Jelly Usage: Wash the affected area, then apply a layer of fresh royal jelly on it. This is done four to five times a day. Honey remedies for psoriasis II: Propolis Usage: Take it orally each time with 0.3 gram, chew it into pieces and then swallow it. This repeats two to three times a day. It can be taken with doses of royal jelly about 5-10 gram daily. By the way, you have to avoid sucrose. For external use, you can make an aqueous solution with 10% propolis, or 10-50% of propolis tincture, apply two to three times on affected area daily. You can also add in the propolis and propolis tincture into bath solution. Simple Introduction of The Efficacy of Honey Skin Care Apply the honey on the skin, can help in nourishing and supply nutrients to the skin. Making the skin delicate, smooth and elastic. Improve Immunity Some people used honey to treat colds and laryngitis. Honey contains a variety of enzymes and minerals, can enhance the body’s immunity. Promote Digestion Honey can let stomachache and grilled feeling disappear; the red blood cells and hemoglobin values increase. Honey have efficiency effect to habitual constipation, and no side effects; it is a supporting role to stomach ulcer too. Honey has these effects due to play a gastrointestinal function conditioning role, accordingly strengthening the role of intestinal crawling and shortening the time of defecation. (Gastric ulcer and duodenal patients drink honey should wait for 2 hours after a meal due to fasting drink honey will increase the gastric juice. This is bad for disease condition.) Anti-bacterial Inflammation, Promote Tissue Generation Apply honey on the wound will be able to reduce pain and reduce bleeding from the wound. This lead to promote wound healing and prevent wound infection. It is because honey has the function to some gram-positive bacteria. Honey from all aspects giving good effect to psoriasis, is a  natural psoriasis remedy and nice supporting to treat psoriasis. However, it is not simply a means of treatment. You should be mating it with other remedies. Aloe Vera and dead sea salt are a good choice of remedies. Return from Natural Psoriasis Remedy to Natural Cures For Psoriasis page Return from Natural Psoriasis Remedy to Psoriasis Natural Remedies homepage New! Comments Have your say about what you just read! Leave me a comment in the box below. Homepage | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy Copyright © 2012 www.Natural-Health-For-Psoriasis.com All Rights Reserved. Please Refer our Disclaimer and Privacy 