
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 10:13:38 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8r DAV/2
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Therapists Published by Hypnosis Network Order toll-free 888-332-6463 (code #2180) 0 items View Cart Checkout Hypnosis Network Hypnosis Products Hypnosis Articles Premiere Hypnotherapists Product Reviews Hypnosis FAQs Therapists Professional Therapists with the Skills and Experience to Help You Grow Our therapists are the bedrock of our business. We select the best therapist for each topic area, recruiting each one based on extensive research, professional recommendations from colleagues, and the therapist's skill in developing quality audio programs for independent use. All of our therapists have graduate degrees, extensive mental health experience, professional licensing, and expert training in clinical hypnosis. Dr. Roberta Temes Dr. Neil Fiore Dr. Carol Ginandes Dr. Joyce Mills Dr. Shirley McNeal Dr. Maggie Phillips Dr. Peter Lambrou Dr. Jack Singer Dr. Randy Gilchrist Dr. Eric Greenleaf Dr. Michele Ritterman Dr. Bruce Peltier Dr. John Dyckman Dr. Lonnie Barbach Dr. Joel D. Block Dr. Kim Cusimano Dr. Muriel P. Warren Shoshana S. Bennett Dr. Roberta Temes Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, The Union Institute Specialist in Weight Loss Dr. Temes World-renowned hypnotist and psychotherapist Roberta Temes, Ph.D. has helped thousands of people resolve sleep and weight-loss issues. Dr. Temes is the author of The Complete Idiot's Guide to Hypnosis , and editor of Medical Hypnosis , the first medical textbook on hypnosis. She is a member of the faculty of SUNY Health Science Center in Brooklyn, NY, and the Department of Psychology at Union County College in New Jersey. Dr. Temes lives in New Jersey. Learn more about Dr. Temes. Products by Dr. Temes: Enjoying Weight Loss - eat right, exercise more, and lose weight easily Weight Loss For Life - eliminate old behaviors to lose weight for life Dr. Neil Fiore Ph.D., Counseling/Psychology, University of Maryland Specialist in Productivity Dr. Fiore Neil Fiore, Ph.D. has helped thousands of people become more productive. The author of The Now Habit: A Strategic Program for Overcoming Procrastination and Enjoying Guilt-Free Play , Dr. Fiore's experience includes serving as a Lieutenant with the 101st Airborne Division, a manager with Johnson & Johnson, a statistical analyst for Shell Oil, and a psychologist at UC Berkeley. Learn more about Dr. Fiore. Products by Dr. Fiore: Productivity Engineering - eliminate procrastination and achieve your goals Mental Toughness - enhance your resilience and persistence Dr. Carol Ginandes Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, Boston University, Boston, MA Specialist in Mind/Body Healing Dr. Ginandes Carol Ginandes, Ph.D., ABPP is a health psychologist who is internationally recognized for her clinical work, research, and teaching. In her practice of psychology in Watertown, Massachusetts, she specializes in utilizing hypnotic strategies to facilitate mind/body healing in a wide range of health conditions. She works with patients who are preparing for medical procedures, recovering from accidents or surgery, have acute or chronic illnesses, who are suffering from pain, or who have not reached the desired degree of improvement after medical treatment. Dr. Ginandes holds staff appointments at Harvard Medical School and McLean Hospital. Learn more about Dr. Ginandes. Products by Dr. Ginandes: Smooth Surgery, Rapid Recovery: A Systematic Hypnotic Approach - prepare for surgery for a better recovery Dr. Joyce Mills Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, International College, Los Angeles, CA Specialist in Child Psychology Dr. Mills Joyce Mills, Ph.D. is a spellbinding storyteller and an internationally recognized authority on the Ericksonian approaches of hypnotherapy. Author of many hypnotically based bed-time stories, Dr. Mills is known and loved for her warm, dynamic, inspirational style. She is Director of the StoryPlay Center and Co-Director of the Phoenix Institute of Ericksonian Psychotherapy. Learn more about Dr. Mills. Products by Dr. Mills: Sammy the Elephant and Mr. Camel - end bedwetting and enhance self-control Dr. Shirley McNeal Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR Specialist in Self-Esteem and Performance Dr. McNeal Shirley McNeal, Ph.D., recipient of the 2003 Milton H. Erickson Award for Scientific Excellence by the American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis, is the author and co-author of more than 20 scientific papers. Her recently published work on the use of hypnosis for "Inner Strength and Ego Strengthening" is recognized worldwide as the standard by the clinical hypnosis community. http://www.drshirleymcneal.com/ Learn more about Dr. McNeal. Products by Dr. McNeal: Core Inner Strength - build self-esteem and self-confidence Overcoming Performance Anxiety - speak or perform confidently in public Test Taking Mastery - conquer test anxiety and raise your test scores Dr. Maggie Phillips Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, Fielding Institute, Santa Barbara, CA Specialist in Pain Management Dr. Phillips Maggie Phillips, Ph.D., director of the California Institute of Clinical Hypnosis, is a licensed psychologist in full-time private practice in Oakland, California. Co-author of Healing the Divided Self and author of Finding the Energy to Heal , Dr. Phillips specializes in the use of hypnosis for pain and healing. She is also a Fellow of the American Society of Clinical Hypnosis. Learn more about Dr. Phillips. Products by Dr. Phillips: Hypnosis: The Pain Solution - manage chronic pain safely and naturally Hypnosis: The Headache Solution - stop chronic headaches before they start Dr. Peter Lambrou Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, The University For Humanistic Studies Specialist in Sales Psychology Dr. Lambrou Peter Lambrou, Ph.D. is the rare combination of a successful sales person AND a successful psychologist.  After mastering complex sales in the first stage of his career, Dr. Lambrou went on to become one of the most successful psychologists of his generation.  He is the Vice-Chair of Psychology at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, California, and he is the co-author of Self-Hypnosis: The Complete Manual , one of the best-selling hypnosis books of all time. Learn more about Dr. Lambrou. Products by Dr. Lambrou: Subconscious Sales Success Strategies: Volume 1 - overcome subconscious blocks with hypnosis Dr. Jack Singer Ph.D., Clinical, Industrial/Organizational, and Sport Psychology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO Specialist in Sports Psychology Dr. Singer Working with sports professionals, college athletes, nationally ranked juniors, and serious "weekend warriors," Jack Singer, Ph.D. is a sports psychologist who teaches all his clients how to maximize their performance. He is a Diplomate in the field of Sports Psychology (recognized by the National Institute of Sports) and has taught in the psychology departments of seven universities. Learn more about Dr. Singer. Products by Dr. Singer: Core Sports Performance - reach your performance goals by using your mind Advanced Sports Pain Management - overcome nagging pain caused by old injuries Accelerated Sports Healing - heal sports injuries quickly and regain activity Dr. Randy Gilchrist Psy.D., Clinical Psychology, California School of Professional Psychology at Alliant International University, San Diego, CA Specialist in Stress Management Addictions Dr. Gilchrist Randy Gilchrist, Psy.D. is on the cutting edge of the use of clinical hypnosis and other therapeutic methods to help people successfully quit smoking. A licensed psychotherapist with advanced training in clinical hypnosis from world-renowned expert Michael Yapko, Ph.D., Dr. Gilchrist has the special ability to connect and facilitate change with even the most challenging clients. Learn more about Dr. Gilchrist. Products by Dr. Gilchrist: The Non-Smoker's Edge - quit smoking for good without weight gain Managing Stress and Anxiety - stay healthy in the midst of a busy, stressful life Dr. Eric Greenleaf Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, New York University Specialist in Ericksonian Hypnotherapy Dr. Greenleaf Eric Greenleaf, Ph.D., has treated with, trained, presented and written about hypnotherapy for forty years. His book, The Problem of Evil: Ancient Dilemmas and Modern Therapy, appeared in 2000. Dr. Erickson chose Eric to receive the first Milton H. Erickson Award of Scientific Excellence for Writing in Hypnosis. Eric practices in Albany California, in the SF Bay Area. Learn more about Dr. Greenleaf. Products by Dr. Greenleaf: Preparing for Uncertainty - step out into the unknown without fear The Hypnosis Experience - access the resources of your unconscious mind Dr. Michele Ritterman Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, Temple University Philadelphia, PA Specialist in Relationships Dr. Ritterman One of Milton Erickson's foremost students, Michele Ritterman, Ph.D. is a pioneer in the integration of hypnosis and family therapy. Dr. Ritterman trains thousands of psychotherapists around the world using her unique methods of working with couples and families. Her numerous published papers and books on couples, time, trance-in-interaction and states of mind have been translated into three languages. She is Senior Teacher of Couples and Family Hypnotherapy at The Milton H. Erickson Institute of the Bay Area. Learn more about Dr. Ritterman. Products by Dr. Ritterman: Shared Couple's Trance - deepen your relationship through hypnotic trance Dr. Bruce Peltier Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, Wayne State University, Detroit Specialist in Dental Anxiety Dr. Peltier Former President of the San Francisco Academy of Hypnosis, Bruce Peltier, Ph.D., M.B.A. is a licensed clinical psychologist and professor of psychology at the University of the Pacific School of Dentistry, one of the top dental schools in the country.  He is also an executive coach in San Francisco. Dr. Peltier is a sought-after trainer and consultant to dental professionals as well as the business executive community. His book, The Psychology of Executive Coaching , is in its second printing. Learn more about Dr. Peltier. Products by Dr. Peltier: Relieving Dental Anxiety - conquer your fear of dental treatment Dr. John Dyckman Ph.D., Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, CA Specialist in Child Psychology and Workplace Issues Dr. Dyckman John Dyckman, Ph.D. is a psychotherapist at a large health maintenance organization. He has been a professor of psychology, has conducted research and has run a private clinical practice for the past 25 years. Dr. Dyckman works in group communication issues, helping people become more effective in group settings, and has a unique understanding of children's worldviews at different stages of their development. He is the co-author of Scapegoats at Work: Taking the Bull's-Eye Off Your Back . Learn more about Dr. Dyckman. Products by Dr. Dyckman: Five Funny Critters - build your child's character through stories Workplace Survival Skills - improve your business communication Dr. Lonnie Barbach Ph.D., Clinical-Social Psychology, Wright Institute, Berkeley, CA Specialist in Sex Therapy Dr. Barbach Author of numerous best sellers, Lonnie Barbach, Ph.D. is one of the foremost authorities on sex and relationships in the United States. Her books have sold over 4 million copies in the United States alone. In addition, Dr. Barbach has appeared on numerous national television programs. She currently is on the clinical faculty of the UCSF School of Medicine. Learn more about Dr. Barbach. Products by Dr. Barbach: Lasting Longer - stop premature ejaculation naturally Maintaining Pleasure - end erectile dysfunction for a full, active life Dr. Joel D. Block Ph.D., Counseling and Clinical Psychology, Syracuse University Specialist in Sex Therapy Dr. Block Joel D. Block, Ph.D. is an award-winning psychologist, practicing couple/sex therapy and couple-relationship seminars throughout the United States. Dr. Block is a senior psychologist on the staff of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center and an Assistant Clinical Professor at the Einstein College of Medicine. He supervised the training of early career psychologists at the medical center's Sexuality Center for more than 20 years. He is the author of 15 books on the topics of relationships and sexuality, including Secrets of Better Sex , featured in the New York Times . Learn more about Dr. Block. Products by Dr. Block: Lasting Longer - stop premature ejaculation naturally Maintaining Pleasure - end erectile dysfunction for a full, active life Dr. Kim Cusimano Ph.D., Counseling Psychology, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM Specialist in Sports Psychology Dr. Cusimano Kim Cusimano, Ph.D. is a sports psychologist at UC Davis Sports Medicine Center in Davis, California. She is dedicated to the psychology of performance, health, and well-being. Dr. Cusimano consults with individuals and teams at the collegiate, national and professional levels, assisting athletes in successfully integrating a mind-body philosophy for optimized performance potential, and has consulted with the Saturn organization and the U.S. Army on stress management and health. Dr. Cusimano is a sub-three hour marathon runner. Learn more about Dr. Cusimano. Dr. Muriel P. Warren D.S.W., Social Work, Adelphi University, Garden City, NY Specialist in Trauma Dr. Warren Muriel P. Warren, L.C.S.W., D.S.W., F.A.A.E.T.S. is a psychotherapist, hypnotherapist, educator and author. She has written many books on stress and hypnosis, including Trauma: Treatment and Transformation . Dr. Warren is a traumatologist who specializes in stress and anxiety management. She is Executive Director of the Warren Trauma Institute and trains therapists in the use of hypnosis and other therapeutic techniques for the treatment of trauma. Learn more about Dr. Warren. Shoshana S. Bennett Specialist in Postpartum Depression Shoshana Bennett Shoshana S. Bennett, licensed psychologist, founded Postpartum Assistance for Mothers in 1987 after her second undiagnosed postpartum illness. Bennett is the Immediate Past President of Postpartum Support International and the past president of California's state organization Postpartum Health Alliance. She has been a featured guest on dozens of national radio and television shows, including ABC's 20/20 . She is the author of Postpartum Depression for Dummies and co-author of Beyond the Blues: A Guide to Understanding and Treating Prenatal and Postpartum Depression . Learn more about Shoshana Bennett. Try Hypnosis Now Relax & Center , by Dr. Neil Fiore, is a 4-session audio hypnosis program for stress relief. $29 value, FREE. We guarantee your email privacy. Thanks for requesting your free copy of Relax and Center by Dr. Neil Fiore. Watch your email for the link to the download. It will be emailed to you within the next 20 minutes. Real Hypnosis Sessions Hypnosis Sessions for Success Stop procrastination, find inner confidence, eliminate self sabotage, and more. Core Inner Strength build self-esteem and self-confidence Mental Toughness enhance your resilience and persistence Overcoming Performance Anxiety speak or perform confidently in public Preparing for Uncertainty step out into the unknown without fear Productivity Engineering eliminate procrastination and achieve your goals Subconscious Sales Success Strategies: Volume 1 overcome subconscious blocks to selling Test-Taking Mastery conquer test anxiety and raise your test scores Workplace Survival Skills improve your business communication Hypnosis Programs for Health Lose weight, quit smoking, and much more.  Try these award winning programs and feel and look better than ever before. Enjoying Weight Loss eat right, exercise more, and lose weight easily The Hypnosis Experience access the resources of your unconscious mind Hypnosis: The Headache Solution stop chronic headaches before they start Hypnosis: The Pain Solution manage chronic pain safely and naturally Managing Stress and Anxiety stay healthy in the midst of a busy, stressful life The Non-Smoker's Edge quit smoking for good without weight gain Relieving Dental Anxiety conquer your fear of dental treatment Smooth Surgery, Rapid Recovery: A Systematic Hypnotic Approach prepare for surgery for a better recovery Hypnosis for Love & Sex Don't be embarrassed, hypnosis has a long track record helping people overcome these kinds of issues.  Created by Doctors. Lasting Longer stop premature ejaculation naturally Maintaining Pleasure end erectile dysfunction for a full, active life Shared Couples Trance deepen your relationship through hypnotic trance Better Sports Through Hypnosis Athletes have been using hypnosis for accelerated sports performance for years. These sessions are being used by people you will recognize. Accelerated Sports Healing heal sports injuries quickly and regain activity Advanced Sports Pain Management overcome nagging pain caused by old injuries Core Sports Performance reach your performance goals by using your mind Hypnosis For Children Research shows hypnosis works even better with children than adults.  These sessions are all created by Child Psychologists and can have amazing effects on your child's emotional well-being. Five Funny Stories build your child's character through stories Sammy the Elephant and Mr. Camel end bedwetting and enhance self-control Order by phone toll free between 9am-5pm CST Monday - Friday 1-888-332-6463 International: (+1) 817-566-0050 Questions? Ask Now! You may have questions about hypnosis in general, about a particular product, or about how a program might work for you. I am happy to answer any questions you might have, no matter how small they seem. Just click here . To speak to us in person, call 1-888-332-6463 (toll-free) or 817-566-0050. Our office is open 9 AM to 5 PM, Central Time. Hypnosis Products Success Core Inner Strength Mental Toughness Overcoming Performance Anxiety Preparing for Uncertainty Productivity Engineering Subconscious Sales Success Test-Taking Mastery Workplace Survival Skills Health & Wellness Enjoying Weight Loss The Hypnosis Experience Hypnosis: The Headache Solution Hypnosis: The Pain Solution Managing Stress and Anxiety The Non-Smoker's Edge Relieving Dental Anxiety Smooth Surgery, Rapid Recovery Love & Sex Lasting Longer Maintaining Pleasure Shared Couples Trance Sports Performance Accelerated Sports Healing Advanced Sports Pain Management Core Sports Performance Children's Development Five Funny Stories Sammy the Elephant and Mr. Camel Home The Hypnosis Network About Hypnosis Hypnosis Products Reviews All Products Notable Endorsements Submit Your Testimonial Partners Affiliates Distributors Therapists (Authors) FAQs About Us Contact Us Money-Back Guarantee Privacy Policy Help Using Hypnosis Products Shipping Rates & Policies Hypnosis Gift Guide Request Printed Catalog Links Hypnosis Organizations Hypnosis Training Our Hypnotherapists Product Reviews Articles Brain Science Children's Development Health and Wellness Hypnosis Articles Cont. Hypnosis Research Hypnosis Scams Myth Alert Understanding Hypnosis Downloads Free Hypnosis Sessions Enter Download Key Hypnotherapists Dr. Lonnie Barbach Dr. Joel D. Block Dr. Kim Cusimano Dr. John Dyckman Dr. Neil Fiore Dr. Randy Gilchrist Dr. Carol Ginandes Dr. Eric Greenleaf Dr. Peter Lambrou Dr. Shirley McNeal Dr. Joyce Mills Dr. Bruce Peltier Dr. Maggie Phillips Dr. Michele Ritterman Dr. Jack Singer Dr. Roberta Temes Dr. Muriel P. Warren Order our hypnosis sessions by calling toll-free 888-332-6463. International calls (+1)817-566-0050. Hours: 9 AM to 5 PM CST Monday through Friday. Questions? Contact Customer Service at 888-332-6463 or support@hypnosisnetwork.com . All sessions are hypnotic. Do not listen while driving or while engaged in activities that require your attention. All material herein is provided for information only and may not be construed as personal medical advice. No action should be taken based solely on the contents of this information; instead, readers should consult appropriate health professionals on any matter relating to their health and well-being. The publisher is not a licensed medical care provider. The information is provided with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in the practice of medicine or any other health-care profession and does not enter into a health-care practitioner/patient relationship with its readers. We are not responsible for the accuracy, reliability, effectiveness, or correct use of information you receive through our product, or for any health problems that may result from training programs, products, or events you learn about through the site. The publisher is not responsible for errors or omissions. The FDA has not evaluated these statements. None of the information or products discussed on this site are intended to diagnose, treat, mitigate or cure any disease. Hypnosis Network does not evaluate or guarantee the accuracy of any comments or other posted information from our readers. As such, all views expressed in the comments are solely the opinions of the individual author, and do not represent the opinions of Hypnosis Network or its affiliates. © Copyright 2005 - 2012 by The Hypnosis Network. All rights reserved. Our Privacy Policy We honor all people as unique individuals and will NEVER share any correspondence (whether it be written or verbal) with anyone outside of the company without your written consent. Furthermore, it is our commitment to protecting the privacy rights of anyone who visits our site. We collect email addresses of those who ask to receive free downloads of our products, those who subscribe to our newsletter, those who sign up for our free teleseminars, and of customers who order products. We will only use these email addresses to send you unique product offerings and discounts, information about your order, or information specific to lists you may subscribe to. You will always have the option of removing yourself from a list by following a link that is at the bottom of all of our newsletters. Furthermore, we do not sell trade or otherwise share any information about our site visitors with third parties. Ask any question, large or small