
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2012 18:51:52 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_fcgid/2.3.6
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
Cache-Control: max-age=3, must-revalidate
WP-Super-Cache: Served supercache file from PHP
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Relieve Your Migraines Naturally | Migraine Headaches Migraine Headaches Could Your Migraine Headache Be Caused by the Weather? « What Is Cluster Migraine and Cluster Migraine Relief? Relieve Your Migraines Naturally March 19th, 2012 . Posted in Migraine Headaches No Comments » Tags: Migraines , Naturally , Relieve Migraines are one of the worst conditions for people who habitually get them. Not only do you have an excruciating headache you can have flashing lights, narrowed vision, stabbing pains or even nausea. The experience is so vivid, only a migraine sufferer could explain it. Statistics show that about ten percent of the population suffers from some form of migraines yet researchers have not found one single cause. They seem to arrive from a variety of causes. The Center for Disease Control in Atlanta reports that there has been a 60 percent increase in migraine occurrence since the 1980s. Some research indicates there may be a nutritional link to the increased incidence. Additional suspected links include environmental pollution and allergies. Statistics show that women between the ages of 25 and 44 seem to be most susceptible, particularly between ovulation and just after menstruation. Researchers are also looking at the strong genetic link where migraines often run in families. Typical migraines can last anywhere from one to 72 hours and usually incapacitate the individual during that time with impaired vision, high levels of pain, pins and needles, interrupted thinking and difficulty speaking and walking. While the original thoughts on migraines believed that there were biochemical or hormonal changes that result in the constriction then dilation of blood vessels that bring on the classic symptoms, researchers have added a new hypothesis. There is some evidence to suggest that migraines are an inflammatory disorder that starts with interruptions in serotonin production and delivery. Serotonin is one of those versatile biochemicals that affects digestion, temperature control, cardiovascular function, mood, sleep and the way the body processes its own biochemistry and any medications you take, particularly for pain. One of the reasons the body goes into an inflammatory response is due to lack of water. The body experiences low level dehydration at first, which can progress to a more serious level. There is a whole concert of parameters that come into play including histamine response, hormones, essential fatty adic imbalances and essential minerals. During the woman’s cycle, the body uses more water to line the uterus with the nourishing fluids that would be required if she were to become pregnant. It would be a really good idea to increase the amount of water that a woman drinks on a regular basis so there is not a water crisis in the body. Many migraine sufferers have experience a complete absence of migraines simply by drinking more water. In addition, a study reported in 1997 that upping the ingesting of essential fatty acid supplements containing gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) reduced the frequency and severity of migraines by 86 percent. The study also reported that out of the 168 patients participating in the study, 22 percent of them no longer experienced migraines and 90 percent of them had significant reductions in nausea and vomiting. Magnesium, found in soybeans, nuts, seeds, fish, veggies and whole grains has shown a lot of promise for migraine sufferers during research. Studies are showing magnesium’s promise as a prevention of blood vessel spasms and as a regulator of pain receptors. Because magnesium has a great influence on the brain, nervous and circulatory systems it has proven itself during migraine studies. During the study, sufferers experienced fewer migraines of lesser intensity. 600 mg per day seemed to be the magic number. Tests showed that the participants in this test also had greater blood flow to the brain. We’ve all heard how gingko biloba can be a great brain booster and now researchers show that it is also a great pain reliever for migraine pain. The magic ingredient in gingko is called Ginkgolide B. Patients were given a cocktail of 60 mg of gingko biloba, 8 mg of vitamin B2 and 11 mg of CoQ10 to be taken twice a day. The participants experienced fewer headaches of shorter duration and 42 percent of them had no more migraines after four months of supplementation. Feverfew is a great inflammatory reducer and is also excellent for improving the tone of blood vessels. Taken over two months is when the reduction and severity of migraines becomes noticeable. Since feverfew is a great preventative it is best to take it daily for best results. Since migraines can be caused by so many different things including the weather, it is best to try these natural substances, including upping your water intake, particularly an antioxidant, alkaline, ionized water to bring down your inflammatory response, improve the low level chronic metabolic acidosis that most people experience, improve your hydration and help swallow those natural migraine fighters. By providing your body with these natural migraine fighters you could be well on your way to waving goodbye to your migraines. Pamela Barinoff is a certified nutritional consultant and a water technician. She has studied how water affects health and counsels people in her private practice. Visit the website at http://www.cerrawater.com Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Recent Posts Relieve Your Migraines Naturally What Is Cluster Migraine and Cluster Migraine Relief? Migraine Pain Relief – What You Need to Know About Muscle Tension and Body Awareness Stress Headaches Understanding the Migraine Cycle and Triggers of Migraine Headaches Rebound Headache – Stop The Cycle What Are Migraines? – The Different Migraine Criteria Categories Migraine Headaches Tags About Acupuncture Cause Causes Chiropractic Chronic Cluster Cures Dealing Effective Facts Foods Frequent Getting Headache Headaches Herbal Learn Medication Medicine Migraine Migraines Natural Naturally Nutrition Ocular Pregnancy Prevention Relief Relieve Remedies Remedy Should Sinus Symptoms Tension There Treat Treatment Treatments Trigger Triggers Types Visual Without Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 Entries (RSS) and