<http://www.aegean-diet.com/?p=129>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Cookie,User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Last-Modified: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 20:38:52 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

How to Use Cinnamon Benefits for FAST Weight Loss for Women & Men — Aegean Diet Aegean Diet Aegean Diet The Aegean Diet Explained! How to Use Cinnamon Benefits for FAST Weight Loss for Women & Men How to Use Cinnamon Benefits for FAST Weight Loss for Women & Men www.saturdaymorningdiet.com Joan Loganeski gives a tutorial on the many benefits the spice Cinnamon offers you on your weight loss journey. In medicine it acts like other volatile oils and once had a reputation as a cure for colds. It has also been used to treat diarrhea and other problems of the digestive system. Cinnamon is high in antioxidant activity. The essential oil of cinnamon also has antimicrobial properties, which can aid in the preservation of certain foods Cinnamon has been reported to have remarkable pharmacological effects in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus and insulin resistance. The plant material used in the study was mostly from Chinese cinnamon Recent advancement in phytochemistry has shown that it is a cinnamtannin B1 isolated from C. verum which is of therapeutic effect on Type 2 diabetes, with the exception of the postmenopausal patients studied on C. Cassia. Cinnamon has traditionally been used to treat toothache and fight bad breath and its regular use is believed to stave off common cold and aid digestion. Pharmacological experiments suggest that the cinnamon-derived dietary factor cinnamic aldehyde (cinnamaldehyde) activates the Nrf2-dependent antioxidant response in human epithelial colon cells and may therefore represent an experimental chemopreventive dietary factor targeting colorectal carcinogenesis. Recent research documents anti-melanoma activity of cinnamic aldehyde observed in cell culture and a mouse model of human melanoma … Previous post: GreekFoodTv☼ Tzatziki – Gre