Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Type 2 diabetes - Novo Nordisk Pharma (Private) Limited Novo Nordisk Pharma (Private) Limited Contact us Sitemap About us Diabetes Care Haemostasis Growth Hormone Diabetes Care What is Diabetes? Treating type 1 diabetes Treating type 2 diabetes Treating type 2 diabetes Type 2 diabetes is a term for several disorders with different causes and degrees of severity. It is the most common type of diabetes. ﻿ Often, people with type 2 diabetes can still make their own insulin in the pancreas, but the insulin that is produced is not used as effectively by the body. Many people manage type 2 diabetes simply by following a healthy diet and regular exercise. In overweight individuals, type 2 diabetes often improves as a result of weight loss, a healthy diet and exercise. With the progression of the disease, some people may have to take oral medication(s) or insulin injections. Type 2 diabetes is much more common than type 1 diabetes. Although the cause of type 2 diabetes is unknown, there are some risk factors that can predispose some people to this condition. Risk factors of type 2 diabetes include: - Age - Being overweight or obese - Having a family history of diabetes - Ethnic background or race (Native/Indigenous, African, Hispanic or Asian descent) - Having given birth to a large baby (over 4 kg or 9 lbs) - Impaired glucose intolerance The symptoms of type 2 diabetes are the same as type 1 diabetes. Some people may also experience slow healing cuts and bruises, recurring gum or bladder infections, or tingling in their hands or feet. Other terms previously used for type 2 diabetes are adult-onset diabetes and Non-Insulin Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (NIDDM). Gestational diabetes Gestational diabetes is another common type of diabetes. It is a temporary condition that occurs during pregnancy. Extra demands on the pancreas cause some women to develop diabetes during pregnancy. Often, it goes away after delivery. But, later in life, diabetes may return. Gestational diabetes has prevelance of 8% in Pakistan, with an increased risk of developing diabetes for both the mother and the child. The risk of type 2 diabetes returning is greater if the mother has given birth to a baby that weighed over 4 kg (9 lbs) at birth. Treatment will involve following a healthy diet, physical activity, and in some cases, insulin therapy. Back to the top NovoNordisk.com Disclaimer & Priv