
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 18:49:03 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22
X-Pingback: http://www.gancao.net/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Vary: User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Case Studies | Gancao.net Gancao.net Chinese Medicine for a Restless World Home Contact About Acupuncturists Near You California Referrals Add/Edit Your Listing Link Codes Post Case Study Aculinks Archive for the ‘Case Studies’ Category Phlegm type insomnia treated with acupuncture and herbs Chief-complaint: Insomnia Western-diagnosis: Insomnia Medical-history: Patient, 35, female reports trouble falling asleep for 3 years. Often lays in bed and takes 2-3 hours to fall asleep. Pulse: Pulse excess and large. Tongue: Thick, white sticky coating CM-diagnosis: Phlegm Last modified: December 12, 2011            · al · No Comments Posted in: Neurological , Well-Being Left Knee Pain Treated with Acupuncture Chief-complaint: Left Knee Pain for 2 weeks Western-diagnosis: Left Knee fat pad irritation Medical-history: 2 weeks ago gradually onset with progressive physical training. Resting, Ice, compression management received but no progression gained. Patient further seek bone-setter treatment but the situation got worse. Symptoms: Left Knee inferior portion showed significant swelling, with local inflammatory signs significant. Patients walk with pain, and the discomfort increased with going up and down stair. Last modified: November 13, 2011            · al · No Comments Posted in: Musculo-Skeletal Acupuncture Used for Arm Pain Chief-complaint: Pain in both arms Medical-history: 86 yr old woman with high blood pressure, has had thyroid surgery, and receives cortisone shots for low back pain. Symptoms: Patient has been having severe pain radiating down her arms so much so that she takes Ibuprofen every four hours and has been doing so for 6 months. The pain keeps her up at night and limits her ability to perform regular tasks. Pulse: Pulse was thready and rapid with Lung and Kidney weak. Her trapezius muscle was especially tight, points UB10 and GB21 were painful, UB43 tight as well as UB11,12, and 13. Many Ashi points. Last modified: August 9, 2011            · al · No Comments Posted in: Musculo-Skeletal , Neurological Acupuncture Treatment of Insomnia Chief-complaint: Insomnia Western-diagnosis: Insomnia Medical-history: Symptoms: Insomnia with racing thoughts, worry, tossing & turning during her few hours sleep, fatigue, poor memory, & anxiety. Pulse: Thready, slightly rapid Tongue: Pale slightly Thin, w/slight white coating in middle jiao. CM-diagnosis: Bu Mei: Heart & Spleen Deficiency Last modified: November 18, 2010            · al · No Comments Posted in: Neurological , Well-Being Acupuncture Treatment of Infertility Chief-complaint: Infertility Western-diagnosis: Unexplained Fertility Medical-history: 27 year old female, unexplained infertility. Had been trying for four years to become pregnant.  Active and fit. Symptoms: Mild to moderate stress, depression and anxiety related to work and not getting pregnant. No complaints of pain No other remarkable symptoms. Pulse & Palpation: Pulse wiry.  Tender to palpation low back and SI joint.  Very tight abdominal muscles from exercise routine. Last modified: September 16, 2010            · al · No Comments Posted in: Reproductive Epidemic Cholera treated with Acumoxa Therapy in Pakistan Chief-complaint: Diarrhea Western-diagnosis: Cholera Medical-history: In flood affected areas in Pakistan, gastrointestinal Disorders are very common. Diseases such as diarrhea, dysentery, vomiting, and colic to mention just a few. Symptoms: Watery diarrhea, feelings of fullness, cramping pains. CM-diagnosis: Excess type diarrhea Last modified: September 2, 2010            · al · No Comments Posted in: Digestive , Infectious Acupuncture Treatment of Parkinson’s Disease Chief-complaint: tremor Western-diagnosis: Parkinson’s Disease Medical-history: 75 year old male has been diagnosed with Parkinson’s Disease 8 years ago. Symptoms: This patient is a 75 year old male with tremors in both hands and generalized weakness and fatigue throughout his whole body.  This started 8 years ago, with severe and sudden weakness in muscles so that he was unable to walk.  Hand tremor started 5 years ago.  Patient is unable to walk further than five minutes without feeling weak and short of breath.  Hands tremor constantly and he is unable to write. Last modified: August 27, 2010            · al · No Comments Posted in: Neurological The TCM Treatment of Lyme Disease Chief-complaint: Recurring fatigue and joint pain for eight years Western-diagnosis: Lyme disease Medical-history: A 46 year old Caucasian male with a history of recurring fatigue and joint pain that would leave him bedridden. He received steroids for the initial bouts which relieved his symptoms temporarily. Many years later, he was diagnosed with Lyme disease and given approximately 8 weeks of antibiotic treatment. Patient reported little improvement with the antibiotic therapy. He came into my office after being unable to work for several months. He reported extreme fatigue, brain fog, and severe pain in his right ankle. Last modified: August 21, 2010            · al · No Comments Posted in: Allergic , Metabolic Acupuncture Treatment of Recurring Nightmares Chief Complaint: Recurring Nightmares History: Patient was an 23yr old female who had no previous major medical history. She had a tonsillectomy when she was in grade school (did not remember age) . No medications, no history of abuse and could not think of any specific physical or emotional trauma. Symptoms: Recurring dream of being chased then strangled. Initial onset was about 1.5 months prior to tx with an occurrence about 2/3 times per week. Patient was having difficulty sleeping due to anxiety about having nightmare and would sleep very lightly. After dream would usually stay up about 2 hours to calm herself down. All other functions seemed normal. Last modified: May 26, 2010            · al · No Comments Tags: abdominal , Acupuncture , anxiety , nightmares · Posted in: Digestive , Well-Being Oriental Medicine Treatment of Rosecea Chief-complaint: Rosacea Western-diagnosis: Rosacea Medical-history: Patient was a 36 female who first came in for fatigue. Patient has premenstrual anxiety, breast distension and diarrhea. She has cramping and pain with period. She reports she is under a lot of stress. She does drink wine and coffee daily. Also, she likes spicy food. Symptoms: Rosacea started in January with red cheeks and nose. Went to dermatologist and tried over-the-counter herbal remedies (Women’s Balance) which helped some, but got worse in August of that year. Red, itchy slightly raised papules closer to eyes. Worse during and prior to period. Her skin is now oily. She is not sunlight sensitive. Last modified: May 18, 2010            · al · No Comments Posted in: Dermatological « Older Entries For Your Consideration Acupuncture (14) AOM Day (5) Laser (4) Case Studies (295) Addiction (1) Allergic (7) Auto-Immune (9) Cancer (6) Cardiovascular (8) Dermatological (12) Digestive (30) EENT (39) Gynecological (30) Hepatic (3) Iatrogenic (2) Infectious (14) Metabolic (42) Musculo-Skeletal (65) Neurological (90) Reproductive (15) Respiratory (9) Urinary (4) Well-Being (35) Diagnosis (69) Inquiry (2) Pulse-Palpation (46) Pulse Class (45) Symptomatic Diagnosis (8) Tongue-Observation (12) DSHEA (33) Claims (22) Labeling (9) Herbology (5) Referrals (120) Africa (2) Asia (11) Australia (7) California (15) Canada (6) Europe (15) Latin America (6) Middle-East (6) United States (50) United-Kingdom (4) Theory (3) Tweetz (35) Dr. Stone's Pulse Webinar Pulse Diagnosis Made Rediculously Simple More from Gancao.net Eagle Herbs Stalk Algancao on Twitter Google Ads Seek ‘n Find Nothing is permanent but change. Google Ads © Gan