
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 14:04:23 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://blog.usaid.gov/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

USAID Impact » Family planning USAID Impact The Official Blog of the U.S. Agency for International Development Home About This Blog About USAID Family planning Dispelling Family Planning Myths in the DRC Written by Amélie Sow-Dia, PharmD, MHS, Behavior Change Communication Consultant with Overseas Strategic Consulting, a partner on USAID’s Democratic Republic of Congo-Integrated Health Project on February 3, 2012 — Leave a Comment “Are family planning methods safe?” wondered Mutombo, a community health worker at the Kawama Village health center, in the Democratic Republic of Congo’s Katanga Province.  “Don’t they contain a poison?” he added, directing his question to Isaac Chishesa, a community mobilization specialist with USAID’s Democratic Republic of Congo-Integrated Health Project (DRC-IHP). Isaac facilitates a group session on FP with health workers at Kawama Village Health Center. Photo Credit: MSH Tough question!  One Isaac was not expecting, at least not within a discussion among trained community health workers.  An experienced community health professional, Isaac responded with a smile and said, “Thank you, my friend, for sharing your concern,” affirming the participants’ right to ask questions.  “Family planning methods are safe,” he then reassured the group.  “Based on international quality standards, each method is required to go through extensive testing before it is made available to the public.” The faces of Mutombo and his peers lit up.  They sighed, a collective sigh of relief, and burst out laughing to relieve some of the tension.  They all recognized that even though they were dedicated to bringing about improvements in health behaviors, they, like most of their fellow community members, harbored misconceptions and rumors about family planning. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health , Sub-Saharan Africa | Also tagged DRC USAID Epidemiologist Q & A on Hormonal Contraception and HIV Written by Blog Administrator on November 10, 2011 — Leave a Comment This post was originally featured on the International Conference on Family Planning blog. In October, The Lancet Infectious Diseases published a study  by Renee Heffron and colleagues suggesting that HIV-negative women  using hormonal contraception (HC) might be at increased risk for HIV  infection. The study also suggested that HIV-positive women using HC  might be at increased risk of transmitting HIV to an uninfected male  sexual partner. These new findings will be a topic of conversation at  the 2011 International Conference on Family Planning later this month in  Dakar, Senegal. Chelsea Polis is an epidemiologist at USAID who received her PhD in reproductive health from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (JHSPH) in 2009, and holds an associate faculty appointment in the JHSPH Department of Epidemiology .  Working with colleagues at CDC and WHO, Polis is leading two systematic  reviews of the evidence to address HC and HIV risk. She offered her  perspectives in the following emailed Q&A. Should women reconsider their HC use in light of this study? No; at this time, women need not reconsider their HC use in light of  this study alone. For the time being, USAID and WHO have not recommended  any change to current contraceptive guidelines. Careful evaluation of  the Heffron study is underway. This study has several strengths, but  also has limitations that complicate the ability to draw definitive  causal inference between HC and HIV risk. In addition, previous studies  have found inconsistent results. The scientific community is intently  focused on understanding and incorporating new evidence in a thorough  but rapid manner, and is working to establish consensus on  interpretation of the new findings. It remains critical that known risks and benefits of various  contraceptive methods are clearly communicated. If it is ultimately  determined that HC increases HIV risk, this will need to be  communicated. People should also be informed that HC is not intended to  protect against HIV or other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and  that dual protection against unintended pregnancy and STIs/HIV may be  achieved by using condoms along with a highly effective contraceptive  method. Why is HC use important, particularly in settings of high HIV risk? HC methods are highly effective at preventing pregnancy, and are  among the most commonly used contraceptive methods in sub-Saharan  Africa. Unintended pregnancy is associated with multiple adverse  outcomes, including maternal and infant mortality. HIV-positive women  report high rates of unintended pregnancy, and helping these women  access voluntary contraceptive services could contribute to reductions  in perinatal HIV. Furthermore, unanswered questions remain with respect  to the relationship between pregnancy and risk of HIV acquisition in women and transmission to men. Competing risks must be carefully considered. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged HIV , reproductive health 50 Years of Partnership  with Kenya – Part 3 of 4 Written by Maya Worman on October 31, 2011 — Leave a Comment USAID’s health and population program is a top priority for USAID’s  mission in Kenya. USAID works with partners in Kenya to bring health  workers directly to the communities.  These health workers provide  information and care about HIV/AIDS and malaria programs, as well as  work with community religious leaders to discuss family planning.  USAID  supports HIV/AIDS programs in each Kenyan province, has provided  millions of treated mosquito nets to communities throughout the country,  and has led a successful program that shows family planning is possible  without violating religious or cultural beliefs. Posted in 50th Anniversary | Also tagged Global Health , Kenya World Population Day: Why seven billion matters Written by Scott Radloff on July 11, 2011 — Leave a Comment By Scott Radloff, Director of the Office of Population and Reproductive Health Portrait of woman and child. Sri Lanka. Photo © Dominic Sansoni / World Bank This October 31 st the UN has projected that the world population will reach 7 billion.  In my lifetime, the world population has passed the 3, 4, 5, and 6 billion milestones.  During that time the world has become much more interconnected and great advances have been made to help people across the globe live healthier and longer lives. Today, on World Population Day, as we anticipate the arrival of the seven billionth human being on earth, I’d like to pose the question: what more must we do to ensure the health, nutritional, and educational needs of all seven billion are met? One place to start is by meeting the reproductive health needs of the more than 215 million women in the world who would like to postpone or stop having children but are not using modern contraception.  Investing in family planning translates to lower maternal and child mortality, reduced need for abortion, and it improves women’s opportunities and family well-being.  A USAID-supported study in Bangladesh (PDF,147kb) found that families who received reproductive health services experienced health benefits in addition to larger incomes, greater accumulation of wealth, higher levels of education, and improved access to water. As we look forward to the next 60 years, it is certain that the world population will increase to 8 billion.  Beyond that the world’s population might stabilize at around 8 billion by the end of the century or could reach upwards of 16 billion, according to the UN projections.  The future course of population growth depends on our current and continued investment in and commitment to voluntary family planning programs, as well as investments in child survival and girls’ education. To learn more about World Population Day, please visit the event page on the USAID website . Posted in Global Health | Also tagged 7 billion , world population day The Other Half of the Family Planning Equation Written by Scott Radloff, Director of the Office of Population and Reproductive Health on June 18, 2011 — 3 Comments Family photo of Scott and his infant daughter. As Father’s Day approaches I look back to when my wife and I first decided to have children.  We married fairly late, both in our early 30s, so we planned to have our first child just a couple years after we married.  It was an exciting time; much thought went into planning our family.  We are now proud parents of two healthy and happy girls.  It’s normal in the U.S. for both men and women to play an active role in planning their families; however, in much of the developing world that is not the case. Involving men in international family planning programs is an uphill battle.  There is a lack of information among men on the importance of delaying first birth, of spacing births, and of avoiding high parity births for the health of the woman and the child.  Family planning saves lives and improves maternal and child health.  In the developing world, an estimated 90 percent of infants whose mothers die after childbirth will die by their first birthday. Men play an essential role as they are the gatekeepers in many countries to what women can and cannot do: whether women can use contraception or whether family resources should go to pay for other methods.  A number of USAID’s programs address gender issues, focusing on improving male participation in family planning. We are making progress.  Twenty years ago in Kenya, 10 percent of women who were not using or planning to use family planning said that their husband’s disapproval of family planning was the main reason.  Today, this percentage has been reduced to 6 percent. Meanwhile, countries like Nigeria have 10 percent of these women attributing non-use of family planning to husband’s disapproval.  So while we have seen improvements, there is still much work to be done. Educating men on the importance of family planning and birth spacing is only part of the equation.  There should also be a greater emphasis on male methods, including condoms and vasectomy. The challenge is many men around the world don’t have good health seeking behavior so we must get creative in our opportunities to reach men.  For example, now that there is incontrovertible evidence that male circumcision significantly reduces acquisition of HIV by men, there are male circumcision programs for adult men blossoming all over sub-Saharan Africa.  We should make sure there are no missed opportunities to speak to men about other health issues, including planning for their families. This Sunday, as we celebrate fathers everywhere, let us not forget that men’s participation in planning for their families will result in better health and improved lives. Posted in Global Health | Also tagged Father's Day , Global Health Women Shouldn’t Have to Be Sneaky to Get the Family Planning They Want Written by Blog Administrator on March 8, 2011 — 1 Comment By Daniel Cothran, MPH, AIDSTAR-One Program Officer. AIDSTAR-One is managed by USAID’s Office of HIV/AIDS, and provides rapid technical assistance to USAID and U.S. Government country teams to build effective, well-managed, and sustainable HIV and AIDS programs and promotes new leadership in the global campaign against HIV. Yes, I said it. But it’s not my word. I’m just the messenger, relating to you what I heard: sneaky . According to health care providers I interviewed recently in Western   Province, Kenya, sneaking is exactly what women feel they need to do if they want to avoid or postpone pregnancy. Their male partners, for the most part, do not want them limiting the number of children they bear. Many men share the traditional attitude that the primary role of women is to give birth. Others believe that family planning makes women “promiscuous” or that certain contraceptive methods produce deformed children. So, faced with men’s resistance and socially disempowered, many women don’t tell their male partners about the contraception they use. Officer at the Alupe District Hospital in Western Province, Kenya stands in front of the maternity unit, which has been renovated by USAID as part of the APHIA II Western Project.  Photo Credit: Daniel Cothran, AIDSTAR-One But family planning is more than a UN-recognized right for a woman “to decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of [her] children.” It’s also a powerful HIV prevention strategy, part of a comprehensive approach to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV ( PMTCT ). [i] Each year, HIV-positive women in sub-Saharan Africa avert almost 175,000 HIV-positive births by using contraception, a figure that would nearly double if all HIV-positive African women were able to use family planning services. [ii] Programs that integrate family planning and HIV services—such as the USAID-funded AIDS, Population, and Health Integrated Assistance II (APHIA II) Western Project —enable women to postpone pregnancy or avoid unintended pregnancy, which, in the case of HIV-positive women, decreases mother-to-child HIV transmission. Such programs also increase the number of community members who get tested, as well as the number of women and men enrolling in HIV care, support, and treatment programs. How does APHIA II Western work? On the most basic level, if you are a woman going to a clinic for an HIV service—maybe a CD4 count—the provider will ask you if you are pregnant, if you are using a family planning method, and, if not, whether you would like to learn about the methods available. If the answer is yes, you will get counseling on family planning and either receive the contraceptives immediately (free of charge) or be referred elsewhere for them. Likewise, if you arrive and are seeking a family planning method, the provider will ask if you have been tested for HIV and, if not, whether you would like to be. The HIV rapid test is also free. In fact, no matter what brought you to the clinic, providers will ask you these questions—and more. So far, so good—but what about the sneaking? (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged Global Health , HIV/AIDS , PEPFAR , Sub-Saharan Africa , Women’s Day Integrating Family Planning, HIV, and MNCH Services in Ethiopia and Kenya Written by Blog Administrator on December 30, 2010 — 9 Comments By Ed Scholl, AIDSTAR-One Project Director, AIDSTAR-One is funded by USAID’s Office of HIV/AIDS, and provides rapid technical assistance to USAID and U.S. Government country teams to build effective, well-managed, and sustainable HIV and AIDS programs and promotes new leadership in the global campaign against HIV. Alice arrives at a health center in Western Province, Kenya , with her nine-month-old baby girl, who has a recurrent fever. Alice suspects malaria , which is endemic in the area. Two hours later, she leaves with malaria medication and a free insecticide-treated bed net. To the casual observer, Alice got what she came for and had her health needs met. She even received a bed net she wasn’t expecting. A nurse in Meshualekia Health Center, in Addis Ababa, explains how to use the injectable contraceptive, Depo-Provera. The client will also be offered an HIV test as part of the Ministry of Health's efforts to integrate HIV and family planning services. Photo Credit:Ed Scholl, AIDSTAR-One But consider what Alice didn’t receive. Had her daughter been weighed, the nurse would have noticed that her growth was faltering because Alice is not yet supplementing her diet with nutritious weaning foods. Her daughter also missed the measles immunization she was due for. Alice was not offered an HIV test, which would have revealed that she is HIV-positive. Finally, no one asked Alice, who has six children and does not want to get pregnant again, if she is using a family planning method or would like information about contraceptives available at the health center. In short, Alice’s immediate need was met, but multiple underlying health needs went undetected by the health center staff. Alice’s story is unremarkable. Similar scenes play out every day in health care settings around the world. In sub-Saharan Africa , where the burden of HIV, unintended pregnancies, and infant mortality is highest, missed opportunities to meet health care needs, such as those of Alice and her baby, can be deadly. Fortunately, programs in Kenya and Ethiopia are leading the way in integrating family planning, HIV, and maternal/neonatal and child health (FP/HIV/MNCH) services. In Kenya, the government has made integration of FP and HIV a national policy. USAID/Kenya’s AIDS, Population and Health Integrated Assistance II (APHIA II) project promotes integrated service delivery throughout the country in public, private, and faith-based facilities. Visiting the APHIA II project in Western  Province (implemented by PATH), I noted that the Ministry of Health trains nurses and health officers to deliver both FP and HIV services. The project has supported FP/HIV/MNCH integration at 276 health centers and hospitals in Western Province. USAID/Kenya’s new APHIA Plus Project will expand integrated services in 2011. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health , Sub-Saharan Africa | Also tagged Ethiopia , Global Health , HIV/AIDS , Integration , Kenya , Malaria , Maternal Health , PEPFAR , Women U.S. Provides Equipment To Female Health Workers in Pakistan Written by Blog Administrator on December 21, 2010 — Leave a Comment More than 1,500 Lady Health Workers who work in areas in the areas of Punjab and Sindh provinces in Pakistan will receive kits of basic equipment to help them as they offer vital health care services to families in their communities. This donation is part of the United States’ continuing support for Pakistan’s flood relief and recovery efforts. Deputy USAID mission director Rodger Garner is speaking to the lady health workers; Sakina Shanwari, supervisor of the lady health workers, thanks the American people. Photo Credit: USAID/Pakistan The kits were donated by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to Pakistan’s National Program for Family Planning and Primary Health Care.  Kits include blood pressure monitors, scales, thermometers, blankets, tents, and basic furniture.  This equipment will enable Lady Health Workers to set up health houses to provide basic services in flood-affected communities. Read more here . Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged Child , Flood , health worker , maternal , Pakistan The Ability to Plan Your Family Is a Game Changer Written by Blog Administrator on December 10, 2010 — Leave a Comment By: Ryan Cherlin Having seven children would be a challenge for any woman. In a developing nation like Mali, where the average number of children per woman is 6.6, calling it a challenge may be an understatement. Because they fall pregnant at an early age, young mothers don’t have the opportunity to finish their education, they aren’t able to work outside the home, and they face an increased risk of pregnancy-related health complications that could be fatal. Without contraceptives to plan how many children to have and when to have them, this scenario becomes reality for billions of women in the developing world and feeds the cycle of poverty. There are an estimated 215 million women who wish they had the ability to plan their family but don’t have access to contraceptives.  In some developing nations where health care systems are grossly inadequate, or in rural areas where they may be non-existent, the availability of something as simple as contraceptives can be a matter of life and death.  Women understand the grave risk that comes with pregnancy when there are no trained health professionals or doctors to consult and provide care.  The ability to mitigate that risk is a right that should be afforded to every woman. A World Health Organization report in 2005 stated that 1 in 75 women in developing countries risk facing maternal death in their lifetime versus 1 in 7,300 in developed countries. At the extreme, in Niger a women’s lifetime risk of dying from pregnancy-related complications is 1 in 7 versus 1 in 48,000 in Ireland. Behind each of these statistics is a story of a mother who died giving life. Behind each statistic there are heart wrenching stories of broken families that lost a loved one. The stories are all the more tragic when the woman had hoped to avoid the pregnancy, but didn’t have access to contraceptives. The 16 Days Campaign to End Violence Against Women: From 25 November to 10 December, USAID will post a blog each day that aims to prove a single point: The human race cannot progress when half of the world population lives without the same rights and respect afforded to its male counterpart. If you are moved by what you read and want to share, we’ve made it easy for you. Click here to find out how. Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged 16 Days , Maternal Health , Maternal Mortality , Women and Girls Digital Birth Control On Your iPhone Written by Blog Administrator on December 9, 2010 — 3 Comments By: Ryan Cherlin Just when you thought there was an application for everything, now you can download birth control to your smart phones. The ability to plan or prevent pregnancy is something most couples in developed nations take for granted. In poor countries where health systems are often weak and individuals can’t afford to see a health professional this luxury is wanted and needed, but not easily attained. An estimated 200 million women wish they could plan for or prevent pregnancy because having more children poses a health risk to the woman or an economic challenge for the family. The product, iCycleBeads , is now available at the iTunes store. It’s a natural birth control method that enables a woman to track her menstrual cycle and know if she is on a day when pregnancy is likely or not. Many women and couples prefer this method because it is: More than 95% Effective Side-Effect Free Easy to Use Inexpensive Educational & Empowering Since 1985 USAID has supported the use and development of natural family planning methods that give couples the tools they need to plan for the future health and stability of their families. It was a USAID-funded study that originally developed the science and methodology behind Cyclebeads which has helped couples in developing countries plan their families for decades. This new trend towards digitizing birth control through smart phone applications or similar services offered on regular cell phones means more couples will have access to the family planning services they want. CycleBeads is a color-coded string of beads that represents the days of a woman’s cycle and helps her use a natural family planning method called the Standard Days Method®. To use CycleBeads, a woman simply moves a ring over the beads to track each day of her cycle. The color of the beads lets her know whether she is on a day when pregnancy is likely or not and whether her cycle length is in the appropriate range for using this natural family planning method. Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged Health , Maternal Health , Women « Older Entries FY13 Budget: Making Smart Investments Haiti "A Country Undeniably on the Move" World AIDS Day: New Advances Are Critical to Achieving the Vision of an AIDS-free Generation Embracing Enlightened Capitalism View more posts by Administrator Shah... More Good News but Crisis Continues FWD Day is Over—The Famine is Not For the Hungry, Raising Awareness = Action. We are the Relief. Share Hope by Helping Us Reach 13 Million Forwards FWD: USAID’s First-Ever Public Awareness Campaign All Hands on Open Data: Mapping the Famine View more posts on the Horn of Africa... Tags 16 Days 50th Anniversary Administrator Shah Afghanistan Africa Agriculture Asia Democracy Development Earthquake Education Environment Ethiopia Family planning Feed the Future Food Security FWD Global Health Global Health Initiative Haiti Health HIV HIV/AIDS Horn of Africa Human Trafficking India Innovation In the News Kenya Malaria Maternal Health MDGs Pakistan PEPFAR Public Private Partnerships Rajiv Shah Sudan Technology Trafficking in persons UNGA USAID Water Women Women and Girls Youth Blogroll DipNote: Department of State DoD Live: Department of Defense MCC Blog: Millennium Challenge Corporation NIH Blog: National Institutes of Health OMB Blog: Office of Management and Budget State Department Website The Blog @Homeland Security USAID Website Voice of America Search USAID Impact is maintained by the U.S. Agency for International Development .  All contents are in the publi