<1g <1%* Vitamin E (Total Tocotrienols) 16.07mg † Vitamin E (á-Tocotrienol) 751IU 250%* Brazilian green propolis (from Baccharis dracunculifoia) 75-90mg*** † P-coumaric acid 1.32mg † Artepillin C 8.4mg † Kaempferide 3.24mg † Cinnamic acid 2.13mg † Astaxanthin (Haematococcus algae) 3mg † Flaxseed oil (á-Linolenic acid) 320mg † Proprietary lactic acid bacteria blend** ** Bifidobacteriumbreve ssp. Breve, Bifidobacteriuminfantis ssp. 
    Infantis, Bifidobacteriumlongum, Enterococcus faecalis TH10, 
    Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus 
    bulgaricus, Lactobacillus casei ssp. Casei, Lactobacillus fermentum, 
    Lactobacillus helveticus ssp. Jugurti, Lactobacillus plantarum, 
    Streptococcus thermophilus. 21.6 million CFU † *Percent Daily Values based on a 2,000 calorie diet † Daily value not established ** Lactic acid bacteria used in fermentation *** Nutritional value may vary due to the natural selection of the propolis used in different batches Propolis Ingredients: Capsule = Tapioca processed from Manihot esculenta root, glycerin 
(palm, coconut)and carrageenan (red algae). Contains: Beeswax, glycerin fatty acid ester A Vegetarian, Non-GMO, Hypoallergenic, Whole Health Dietary Supplement Warning: Persons with known allergies to ingredients produced by BEES should 
contact their health care professional before consuming. Keep out of reach of 
children. If pregnant or nursing, consult a health professional before use. 
Tamper evident: Do not use if foil blister pack is broken. Suggested Use of Dr Ohhira's Propolis PLUS: Take three of Essential Formulas Propolis PLUS capsules daily with water: one propolis in the morning, one in the afternoon, 
and one in the evening. Take the suggested dosage for 21 days, refrain for seven 
days, and then repeat. Or use as directed by your health care professional. 
(Children under age 6: 1 propolis capsule daily at bedtime) For best results, take on an 
empty stomach. Read More About It... Propolis is a natural protective antibiotic substance that bees apply 
throughout the interior of their hives. Flavonoid-rich, it is derived from 
plant and tree resins. Coating the hive walls and filling cracks and gaps, 
propolis protects against the elements, pathogens, molds, and bad bacteria. 
There is a long history of folk use of propolis, going back to ancient Egypt 
and Greece where it was used externally for dermal care and internally to 
promote digestive and joint health.* A Synergetic Combination: Dr. Iichiroh Ohhira developed Propolis PLUS to offer a product that supports 
true whole health. Dr Ohhira selected each ingredient to complement and enhances the effects of the 
others, providing the body with antioxidant and immune system support along with 
promoting healthy digestive function.* Propolis Extract –High potency Brazilian green propolis for antioxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, and immune system support* Vitamin E Complex –additional antioxidant support with a-Tocopherol and 
Tocotrienol for overall cellular and dermal health* Astaxanthin –a red carotenoid extracted from Haematococcus seaweed. Produces 
a highly absorbent ester form capable of crossing blood-brain barrier to deliver 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory benefits throughout entire body. One of the most 
complete antioxidant and anti-inflammatory natural substances known to scientists.* Flax Oil –provides a-linolanic acid (Omega-3s) often lacking in modern diets. 
Balances the common excess Omega-6 intake and acts as a base when synthesizing 
other fatty acids in the body. Essential Fatty Acids (EFAs) help cells release 
toxins and absorb nutrients.* Probiotic Extract –Multiple vegetables fermented with beneficial lactic acid 
bacteria to concentrate their health benefits. Powdered fermented vegetable 
extract supports nutrient absorption, stimulates friendly bacteria in the gut, 
and balances the inflammation cycle.* *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.  
This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Related Item(s) Essential Formulas Ohhira Vegetarian Living Oils EFA's 60 caps Code: OMX2000 Retail $32.95 Our Price $22.95 Quantity in Basket: none Essential Formulas Ohhira Probiotics OMX ORIGINAL Formula 60 gelcaps Code: OMX2060 Retail $53.95 Our Price $31.95 Quantity in Basket: none Essential Formulas Ohhira's Probiotic Magoroku Moisturizing Cream 50ml Code: OMX3030 Retail $34.95 Our Price $28.45 Quantity in Basket: none Essential Formulas Ohhira's Probiotic Kampuku Soap 80g bar Code: OMX3040 Retail $10.95 Our Price $9.45 Quantity in Basket: none Essential Formulas Ohhira Probiotics  OMX PROFESSIONAL Formula 120 gelcaps Code: OMX1200 Retail $119.95 Our Price $79.50 Quantity in Basket: none Essential Formulas Propolis PLUS  120 Caps Code: OMX2080 Retail $129.95 Our Price $103.96 Quantity in Basket: none Propolis, according to Wikipedia, is a resinous mixture that honey bees collect from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources. It is used as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the hive. Propolis is used for small gaps (approximately 6 millimeters (0.2 in) or less), while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax. Its color varies depending on its botanical source, the most common being dark brown. Propolis is sticky at and above room temperature. At lower temperatures it becomes hard and very brittle. Evidence These uses have been tested in humans or animals. Safety and effectiveness have not always been proven. Some of these conditions are potentially serious, and should be evaluated by a qualified healthcare provider. Burns Propolis may have a beneficial effect on the healing of minor burns. More studies are needed before propolis can be recommended as a burn treatment. Canker sores (aphthous ulcers) There is some evidence that propolis taken by mouth may help reduce outbreaks of canker sores. Further research is needed to confirm this. Colds (prevention and treatment) There is some evidence that propolis may help prevent infections with the virus that causes the common cold. Propolis nasal sprays have been suggested as a treatment for runny nose, congestion, and fever in children with nose or throat infections. However, there is not enough clinical evidence to support this use of propolis. Cornea complications from zoster Laboratory studies suggest that propolis has anti-viral and anti-inflammatory effects. There is limited research of propolis for the treatment of eye complications of  Varicella zoster , the virus that causes chicken pox or shingles. Some evidence suggests that propolis may speed up healing and improve sight. However, human research is needed before a recommendation can be made. Dental pain There is early evidence suggesting that propolis (e.g., propolis gel) may reduce dental pain. Additional research is needed before a clear recommendation can be made. Laboratory studies report that propolis may have action against viruses, including herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2. 

Animal and laboratory studies suggest that propolis may help treat various types of infections. Initial human research reports possible benefits against bacteria in the mouth, genital herpes, urine bacteria, intestinal giardia infections, or  H .  pylori. Rheumatic diseases Based on anti-inflammatory effects observed in laboratory research, propolis has been proposed as a possible treatment for rheumatic and other inflammatory diseases. Stomach ulcers caused by Helicobacter pylori bacteria Some evidence suggests that propolis and some of its components may stop the growth of  Helicobacter pylori , the bacterium that causes stomach ulcers. Vaginitis Propolis may be an effective treatment for vaginal inflammation. However, more research is needed before propolis can be recommended. Traditional Uses These uses are based on tradition or scientific theories. They often have not been thoroughly tested in humans, and safety and effectiveness have not always been proven. Some of these conditions are potentially serious, and ought be evaluated by a qualified healthcare provider. 
Academic performance, acne, anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-spasm, blood clots, bowel diseases, cancer, colorectal cancer, corneal regeneration, Crohn's disease, dermatitis, dilation of veins (vasorelaxant), diverticulitis, duodenal ulcers, eczema, HIV, hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels), immune stimulation, immunomodulatory, laryngitis, leukemia, liver protection, low blood pressure, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, osteoporosis, prostate carcinoma, pruritus (itching), psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, skin rejuvenator, thyroid disease, tissue healing after surgery (tissue regeneration), tuberculosis, ulcerative colitis, UV-induced erythema prevention/sunburn, wound healing. Allergies Patients should avoid propolis if they have had allergic/hypersensitivity reactions to propolis,  Populus nigra  L. (black poplar), poplar bud, bee stings/bee products (including honey), or Balsam of Peru. There are multiple reports of swelling, fluid collection, redness, burning, eczema, swelling, fever, and other allergic reactions (including a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis) with repeated use of propolis on the skin. Propolis has been linked to several cases of contact dermatitis in beekeepers. Allergic contact stomatitis has been associated with the therapeutic use of propolis. Side Effects and Warnings The safety of propolis has not been thoroughly studied. Although there are several case reports of allergic reactions to propolis, it is generally believed to be well tolerated in most adults. Allergic reactions may cause swelling, redness, eczema, or fever. Propolis may irritate the skin and may cause burning, peeling lips, irritation, lesions, itching, swelling, psoriasis, or eczema. Case reports of irritation in and around the mouth have occurred after use of propolis lozenges or extract taken by mouth. Toxicity data for propolis are limited. Early studies have found propolis to be relatively non-toxic. There has been one report of kidney failure with the ingestion of propolis that improved upon discontinuing therapy and worsened with re-exposure. Pregnancy and Breastfeeding There is not enough scientific evidence to recommend the use of propolis during pregnancy or breastfeeding. Interactions with Drugs Propolis may produce additive effects when taken with antimicrobial drugs. Propolis may interact with the following: anticoagulants,  H .  pylori  agents, antibiotics, anti-cancer agents (antineoplastics), antifungals, anti-inflammatories, infertility agents, anti-HIV agents (antiretrovirals), immunosuppressants, and osteoporosis agents. Interactions with Herbs and Dietary Supplements Balsam of Peru and propolis are both known to cause allergic sensitization in some people and have multiple compounds in common, such as benzyl benzoate, benzyl cinnamate, benzyl alcohol, benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, caffeic acid, cinnamic alcohol, and vinallin. An increased risk of allergic sensitization may occur if both products are used together. Propolis may interact with the following herbs and supplements: anticoagulants (such as coumarin and licorice), antibacterials, anti-cancer agents (antineoplastics), antifungals, anti-inflammatories, antioxidants, fertility agents, anti-HIV agents, immunostimulants, immunosuppressants, and osteoporosis agents. Please Note: This information is based on a professional level monograph edited and peer-reviewed by contributors to the Natural Standard Research Collaboration ( www.naturalstandard.com ). References Borrelli F, Maffia P, Pinto L, et al. Phytochemical compounds involved in the anti-inflammatory effect of propolis extract. Fitoterapia 2002;73 Suppl 1:S53-S63. Boyanova L, Derejian S, Koumanova R, et al. Inhibition of Helicobacter pylori growth in vitro by Bulgarian propolis: preliminary report. J Med Microbiol 2003;52(Pt 5):417-419. Cardile V, Panico A, Gentile B, et al. Effect of propolis on human cartilage and chondrocytes. Life Sci 2003;Jul 11, 73(8):1027-1035. Carr RR, Nahata MC. Complementary and alternative medicine for upper-respiratory-tract infection in children. Am J Health Syst Pharm 2006 Jan 1;63(1):33-9. Coelho LG, Bastos EM, Resende CC, et al. Brazilian green propolis on Helicobacter pylori infection. a pilot clinical study. Helicobacter 2007 Oct;12(5):572-4. Cohen HA, Varsano I, Kahan E, et al. Effectiveness of an herbal preparation containing echinacea, propolis, and vitamin C in preventing respiratory tract infections in children: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2004;158(3):217-221. Eley BM. Antibacterial agents in the control of supragingival plaque--a review. Br Dent J 1999;186(6):286-296. Gebaraa EC, Pustiglioni AN, de Lima LA, et al. Propolis extract as an adjuvant to periodontal treatment. Oral Health Prev Dent 2003;1(1):29-35. Giusti F, Miglietta R, Pepe P, et al. Sensitization to propolis in 1255 children undergoing patch testing. Contact Dermatitis 2004;51(5-6):255-258. Murata K, Yatsunami K, Fukuda E, et al. Antihyperglycemic effects of propolis mixed with mulberry leaf extract on patients with type 2 diabetes. Altern Ther Health Med 2004;10(3):78-79. Samet N, Laurent C, Susarla SM, et al. The effect of bee propolis on recurrent aphthous stomatitis: a pilot study. Clin Oral Investig 2007 Jun;11(2):143-7. Santos VR, Pimenta FJ, Aguiar MC, et al. Oral candidiasis treatment with Brazilian ethanol propolis extract. Phytother Res 2005 Jul;19(7):652-4. Vynograd N, Vynograd I, Sosnowski Z. A comparative multi-centre study of the efficacy of propolis, acyclovir and placebo in the treatment of genital herpes (HSV). Phytomedicine 2000;7(1):1-6. Part of the Crohns.net group of
sites incorporating: Garden
of Life Products | Buy Probiotics | Stress Help Center | Ecology Health Center Call 1-877-240-7528 • Mon-Fri
9 am - 5 pm PST Home | About U