Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dementia - What does aging mean to you? DEMENTIA What does aging mean to you? Aging can be a blessing or a curse. 
When you have good health, active 
interests, a loving family and friends, 
and financial security, aging is not 
"aging," but living. However, when 
financial, social, and medical worries 
weigh you down, aging is a frightening 
prospect. One of the biggest fears that 
people have concerns cognitive abilities-
that is, losing the ability to remember, 
think, and reason. Losing these mental 
facilities is known as dementia. Dementia is the umbrella term for a
number of specific diseases. Dementia can 
be defined as a persistent decline in 
intellectual function, and it involves 
memory, problem solving, and learning. It 
is characterized by short-term memory 
loss; the inability to complete everyday, 
simple tasks; confusion; impaired 
judgment (such as walking into traffic); 
getting lost in familiar places; and 
paranoia. Dementia can be relatively 
minor, and is often just referred to as a 
"bit of dementia," or it can be life-
debilitating and fatal, when it occurs as 
Alzheimer's disease. Can Dementia be Reversed? The majority of health 
practitioners say that dementia is 
irreversible-that nothing can be done, 
although there may be hope in slowing it 
down. There are a few doctors, however, 
who do not buy this. Abram Hoffer, M.D., 
and Morton Walker, M.D., have both 
expressed the belief that senility, which 
encompasses dementia, can be prevented 
and reversed. Their field is orthomolecular
medicine, which is achieving or 
maintaining health by manipulating 
substances that are normally found in the 
body. This would include vitamins and 
minerals. Hoffer and Walker have cited
success in using this type of therapy, 
using a number of nutrients, including 
those listed in "Nutrition" and 
chelation therapy. Multi-infarct dementia Dementia can be caused by changes 
in the blood vessels in the brain. This 
is known either as vascular dementia or 
multi-infarct dementia (MID). An infarct 
is a mass of dead tissue; so, MID is 
caused by events that result in areas of 
dead tissue in the brain. MID is now 
thought to account for between 12 percent 
to 20 percent of all dementia in the 
elderly. An additional 16 percent to 20 
percent of the elderly have both MID and 
Alzheimer's. These changes in the brain's blood
vessels can result from a blood clot in 
the brain or a burst blood vessel. A 
small stroke or minor blockage may result 
in small, and perhaps unnoticed, changes-
numbness in a hand, or a slight slurring 
of speech. However, if a major vascular 
event takes place, such as a stroke, 
symptoms are dramatic and could limit the 
ability to talk and result in loss of 
short-term memory. People with MID generally have a history
of high blood pressure, vascular disease, 
or previous strokes. Because the actions-
a blockage or stroke-often occur years 
apart, MID is seen to occur as a series 
of "steps." Alzheimer's disease Alzheimer's is a type of dementia 
which selectively damages the brain. 
Alzheimer's was once considered 
psychological, but we now know that it is 
a degenerative disorder based on 
physiological changes in the brain. The 
two characteristics of Alzheimer's are 
neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic 
plaques. In the case of neurofibrillary
tangles, just imagine washing long hair 
without a conditioner-you end up with a 
tangled mess that you cannot get a comb 
through. In the case of Alzheimer's, 
fibers in the brain's cells are tangled. 
And as a comb does not flow smoothly 
through a tangle in the hair, so 
information does not flow smoothly, or 
does not flow at all, through 
neurofibrillary tangles. And because 
these tangles surround the hippocampus, 
the brain's memory center, new memories 
cannot be formed, and older memories are 
lost. Neuritic plaques are a second
characteristic of Alzheimer's. A plaque 
is a buildup of abnormal brain cell 
pieces. Picture a cluster of damaged 
plastic pieces melted together. At the 
core of this buildup is amyloid, an 
abnormal protein not usually found in the 
brain. Amyloid formation has been linked 
to free radicals, which are renegade 
molecules that behave like erratic bumper 
cars in our bodies. Free radicals bounce 
against cells, damaging them, and are 
implicated in disease and the aging 
process. Mental Status Questionnaire Physicians use a Mental Status 
Questionnaire (MSQ) to make a quick 
assessment as to whether dementia is 
present: Where are we now? Where is this place located? What is today's date? What month is it? What year is it? How old are you? When is your birthday? What year were you born? Who is the president/prime minister 
	of the U.S./Canada? Who was president/prime minister 
before him/her? 9-10 answers correct: no confusion 6-8: slight confusion 3-5: moderate confusion 0-2: severe confusion Causes There are many theories on what 
causes Alzheimer's, but no one knows for 
sure. Here are a few of the theories: A lack of brain neurotransmitters: Alzheimer's patients lack an enzyme 
needed to manufacture acetylcholine, a 
neurotransmitter-a brain "messenger"-
important in memory. Not having enough 
acetylcholine may cause memory problems. Viral or infectious agents: Some
researchers believe that a "slow virus" 
causes Alzheimer's. These viruses can 
live in a brain for some 20 years before 
causing a dementia. Environmental toxins: The brains of
Alzheimer's patients have aluminum levels 
up to 30 times higher than other, age-
matched people. However, it is not clear 
whether the aluminum resulted in 
Alzheimer's, or whether Alzheimer's 
resulted in aluminum buildup. Support of 
this theory is partially based on the 
observation that the injection of 
aluminum salts into animals leads to 
brain changes similar to the tangles and 
plaques found in Alzheimer's. Genetic defect: Although difficult
to confirm, there is evidence that 
Alzheimer's has a genetic link. It may 
cluster in families, and by some 
estimates 40 percent to 60 percent of 
U.S. cases are genetic. Immunological defects: Investigation of the neuritic plaques 
gives rise to the possibility that the 
body has turned against itself. Lifestyle and nutrition: Finally, there are indications that diet may be 
involved. A recent study at Loma Linda 
University found correlation between 
heavy meat eaters and Alzheimer's 
(Neuroepidemiology, Vol. 11: 28-36). 
People with Alzheimer's have low levels 
of vitamins B12, A, and E, as well as 
lower levels of carotenoids and the 
mineral zinc. Misc. Info If you forget where you put your glasses, 
you are forgetful. If you forget you wear glasses, you may
have dementia. If you have some memory loss, but it does
not interfere with normal activities, you 
probably do not have Alzheimer's. Also considered a dementia, or causes of 
dementia, are nervous system diseases 
such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's 
disease, Huntington's disease, Pick's 
disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. 1.3 to 1.8 million Americans over age 65 
have Alzheimer's. 250,000 Canadians have Alzheimer's. Negative synergy It is becoming increasingly 
apparent that we cannot pigeonhole 
dementia as having one cause. The above 
theories are not as distinct and separate 
as we might like them to be. What 
triggers Alzheimer's could be a 
combination of all of these, or some sort 
of destructive chain, where all, or 
different combinations of the above, 
figure in. Pseudodementias Pseudodementias are not true 
dementias, but they should be mentioned, 
simply because it is easy to mistake a 
pseudodementia for MID or Alzheimer's. 
Oftentimes, the same manifestations of 
forgetfulness, confusion, and memory loss 
are displayed. If you suspect someone has 
a dementia, the first thing you should 
look at are pseudodementias, as they can 
generally be treated. Depression When one is depressed, it may 
result in confusion, forgetfulness, and 
slowness. Often, loneliness and 
frustration are manifested in this way 
among the elderly. Drugs The elderly are among the highest 
users of prescription drugs and often 
take many at one time. Because they 
cannot metabolize drugs as well as 
younger people, they may be taking too 
much of a drug, and the side effects 
often mimic the signs of dementia. This 
is a very common problem, and a person's 
drug regimen should be one of the first 
things checked. Chemical imbalance The brain has a great need for 
nutrients, and poor eating habits and 
poor absorption can prevent the brain 
from getting necessary nutrients. Because 
many elderly people have little appetite 
or skimp on food, this can be a problem. 
Often, mental problems due to a nutrient 
deficiency manifest themselves before 
physical problems. A deficiency in B 
vitamins, especially vitamins B1, B3, and 
B12, or thyroid problems, may trigger 
dementia-like symptoms. Heart and lung problems Because the brain demands high 
quantities of blood and oxygen, 
insufficient heart and lung action can 
also result in dementia-like symptoms. What can be done? As noted, the first thing to look 
at if you feel someone may have dementia 
are the pseudodementias. After this, 
physicians have a number of cognitive 
tests they administer, and, of course, 
brain scans. The first, continual, and ultimately most
difficult thing to do is to keep the 
person functioning as she or he always 
has. Insist on continuing the daily 
routine as long as possible. Help when 
necessary, but encourage independent 
living as long as possible. It has been 
proven that doing so can slow the rapid 
decline that is often associated with 
neglect, overprotection, and 
hospitalization. This can be, and 
generally is, difficult, time-consuming, 
and emotionally painful. It is usually 
helpful that the caregiver also accept 
help and get involved with support 
groups. Nutrition Because one of the theories on 
Alzheimer's centers on the absence of 
acetylcholine, giving patients foods and 
supplements that result in more of this 
neurotransmitter may help somewhat.
One nutrient, choline, is very important 
in the formation of acetylcholine. This 
is found in legumes, organ and muscle 
meat, milk, and whole-grain cereals. 
Choline supplements are also available. 
Another supplement, phosphatidylcholine, 
helps raise levels of choline. A similar 
sounding supplement, phosphatidylserine, 
has also been used for Alzheimer's. 
Although both of these exhibit promise, 
most experts say that it is "too early to 
tell" how much good they do. Ginkgo biloba is perhaps the supplement
best known for "brain health", and for 
good reason. It may help with MID due to 
its antioxidant activity and because it 
increases blood flow to the brain. There 
have been many studies performed on 
ginkgo and cognition, and it is 
recommended by physicians in Germany for 
the type of symptoms manifested in 
dementia. It has also been studied for 
its effect on Alzheimer's, most recently 
in the well-established Journal of the 
American Medical Association (Vol. 278, 
No. 16. October 22/29, 1997). In a one-year-long U.S. clinical
trial, ginkgo did prove to have at least 
a small effect on dementia. One-third of 
the Alzheimer's patients taking ginkgo 
improved in memory tasks, such as 
remembering dates. Half the group, 
although memory did not improve, 
experienced no increased memory loss, and 
the researchers noted that ginkgo may be 
the equivalent of a six-month delay in 
Alzheimer's progression. Vitamin E , already well-known for
its cardiovascular effects, also may be a 
dementia fighter. Last spring, the New 
England Journal of Medicine (April 24, 
1997) published a report on Alzheimer's 
that said vitamin E (and selegleine, a 
drug used for Parkinson's disease) 
"should be considered for use in patients 
with moderate dementia." The basis for 
vitamin E's benefits are probably due to 
its free radical-fighting properties. Chelating agents The aluminum and toxic metal theory
has spurred treatment with chelation. 
Chelation is the term used when a 
substance binds to another and removes it 
from the body. In this case, a chelating 
agent that attracts aluminum is given to 
the patient, and the aluminum is 
eventually excreted. One study has shown 
that a chelating agent slowed the rate of 
cognitive decline. (Neurology 46, 1996: 
401-405) The article "Dementia" is reproduced with the permission of AIM International 