
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 06 Apr 2012 22:27:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
X-Pingback: http://www.home-remedies-for-you.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Bacteria Vaginosis Causes | Symptoms | Remedies For Bacteria Vaginosis - Women's Health - Natural Remedies Bacteria Vaginosis Causes | Symptoms | Remedies For Bacteria Vaginosis Posted in Category : Women's Health |   May 12, 2010 Bacteria Vaginosis Causes, Symptoms and Home Remedies Causes and Symptoms of Bacteria Vaginosis Bacteria Vaginosis refers to a benign infection, in the vagina. It is also known as non-specific vaginitis, Gardnerella, or Gardnerella vaginitis. It can be caused by a variety of organisms especially the Gardnerella. This type of infection can affect women of any age. It can even affect women, who have never been involved in sexual activities, as it is not a sexually transmitted disease. This infection occurs because of the overgrowth of offending bacteria in the woman’s vagina, due to any physical or hormonal change. That’s is why douching, taking bubble baths or flushing the vaginal area with solutions should be avoided, as these activities could lead to Bacteria vaginosis . The most common symptom associated with this condition is a fish-like, foul-smelling, thin, watery discharge, which is usually white in color, with a yellowish or grayish tint. At times, this may be accompanied by an itching or burning sensation. This discharge should never be ignored. It is best to consult a doctor and have it checked and treated as soon as possible, to avoid any further aggravation or discomfort. Medical treatments could include the use of oral pills and topical gels. You could also try using a few home remedies for bacterial vaginosis that will not only cure the problem, but will also prevent it from recurring. Home Remedies For Bacteria Vaginosis Some of the most effective home remedies are: •	Yoghurt can be used in two ways. It can either be consumed in large quantities or it can be applied within the vagina (with the help of a tampon). •	Apple cider vinegar can be quite effective too, as vinegar can combat the toxins that lead to bacterial vaginosis . Fill a bath tub with water and add two cups of vinegar to it. Soak in the water for at least twenty minutes. •	Tea tree oil has an antibacterial effect that is very helpful in fighting off the bacteria causing the infection. You could either add a few drops of tea tree oil to your bath water and soak in it for a while, or apply some of the oil around the vaginal area. •	The use of goldenseal pills or garlic pills can also be very effective in getting rid of bacterial vaginosis . Garlic pills have an antibacterial effect, which is why they can ward off and terminate the bacteria that cause the condition. Goldenseal pills help boost the immune system and can help you combat the problem. Related Posts Home Remedies for Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedies for Bacterial Vaginosis

Bacterial vaginosis is essentially a bacterial infection of... Vaginal Bacterial Infection Symptoms Vaginal Bacterial Infection Symptoms

Vaginal bacterial infection is also medically known as Bacte... Home Remedies for Bacterial Vaginosis | Heal Bacterial Vaginitis Natural Cures for Bacterial Vaginosis

Vaginitis is the general term used to describe any infectio... Bleeding After Intercourse, Pap Smear - Intercourse Bleeding - Blood, Spotting After Intercourse Vaginal Odor Causes | Smelly Vaginal Discharge • • • Categories Acupressure ADHD Alternate Therapies Aromatherapy Beauty Bone, Joint & Muscles Disorders Child Health Common Ailments Depression Exercise Foods that Heal Gall Bladder General Health Hair Care Hematoma Massage Therapy Men's Health Natural Cures Sexual Health Women's Health Yogic Cures for Diseases Related Topics Bacterial Vaginiti... Natural Bacterial ... Bacterial Vagionos... Home Bacterial Vag... Healthy Bacteria C... Sign up Bookmark us Subscribe newsletter Home Remedies | Articles | Specialists | Ask a Question | Blog | Medicanet | Yoga | Vitamins | English | Spanish Terms and Conditions for Usage of this Site www.home-remedies-for-you.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additiona