
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 11:58:55 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 11:58:55 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.ace-homestay.com/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Sun, 06 May 2012 11:58:55 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Individual | The Science Behind Drug Abuse Search for: Home Posts Tagged ‘individual’ What is This Thing Called Addiction? November 30th, 2011 When I began working in the field of addiction 30 years ago, most clients were automatically labeled addicts, (yes, shocking but true) just as most clinicians were either recovered individuals or members of addiction-troubled families. Of course, the field has evolved and what was once held to be gospel truth has been modified and re-labeled. The purpose of this brief paper serves to highlight the confusion and complexities inherent when assigning the label “Addiction”. Addiction may be: • Disease/illness; Disorder DSM-IV-TR, (insurance reimbursement) • Not illness but can create lots of physical illnesses • Myth of Alcoholism (Herbert Fingarette; scientific data) • Concept, not illness (Jellinek) • Spiritual depravity, character defects – AA fellowship only salvation (AA) • Hedonism – following the pleasure principle – feels good (our limbic system) • Everyone is addicted (Andrew Weil, Harvard Conference presentation) • Genetically programmed (unproven, research not universally validated) • Big multi-billion dollar business • Treatment and discomfort depends on the healthcare providers’ projection (Ellen Langer, Harvard) • Resulting from abuse and trauma • Life-style issues • Once an addict – always an addict vs. once a human being – always a human being • Organismic self-regulation, creative adjustment to what is • My theory is better than yours philosophy! The above bullet points are not inclusive and perhaps none speak to each reader. My heart goes out to clients and clinicians for both are, one might say forced, to give a diagnosis that pretty much will stay with an individual for life i.e. failed attempts to purchase life or health insurance etc. Are any of our noble attempts really helpful? Statistics vary hugely; it all depends on who provides them – each program is the best on the web. The questions really become: Can a label alone define anything? Who is the client? What is his/her experience; a good question because some will say addicted individuals can’t think clear enough for recall or have warped perceptions. Others will claim that there is no cure; what does that mean? Why bother? Who is the individual who has learned to overuse substances? Are they embodied in their drinking, drug-using activities? In conclusion, my professional belief is that what is, is and whatever works, works. I see each individual as a wonderful, complex, highly unique individual who trusts or learns to trust me that s/he is deserving. Kierkegaard wrote that “if you label me you negate me”; a powerful statement that invites all professionals to have an open mind, an open heart, to see and experience the client/professional relationship not as two separate, isolated human beings but in an I/Thou co-created dialogical relationship. This is how we both experience our working together. Believe me, it isn’t always easy. You may see it differently and I would really love to hear your experience and position on the issue of “Addiction.” Comments Off » Tags: aa fellowship client dsm iv tr harvard conference heart individual insurance noble attempts pleasure principle Thing Facts On Alcohol Withdrawal August 28th, 2011 Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome is a collection of symptoms visible when an individual abruptly withdraws from alcohol consumption. It is due to alcohol’s ability to induce physiological dependence. This syndrome is characterized by neuropsychiatric excitability and autonomic disturbances that can get even severe when exposed to a variety of sedative hypnotics like alcohol. Withdrawals occurs when blood levels start to decrease and can be alleviated by reintroduction of a cross tolerant agent or alcohol itself. Symptoms of Withdrawal Age, genetics, degree of alcohol intake, length of time the individual is abusing alcohol and the number of previous detoxification are key variables in the severity of the withdrawal symptoms. Symptoms can vary from mild to to life threatening. An individual suffering from the withdrawal may experience seizures and delirium tremens that can eventually lead to excito-neurotoxicity. The symptoms of the withdrawal includes but are not limited to agitation, anorexia, diarrhea, gastrointestinal upset, hypertension, fever, nausea, restlessness, headache, depression, hallucinations, anxiety, panic attacks, euphoria, palpitations, vomiting and even death. Protracted withdrawal syndrome is referred to as the post acute withdrawal syndrome. It takes place beyond the acute withdrawal stage, gradually decreasing over time at low intensities. Some protracted withdrawal symptoms include craving for alcohol, a feeling of displeasure over things that were normally pleasurable, nausea, vomiting and headaches. Treatments and Remedies for Withdrawal Symptoms Recommended treatments for withdrawal syndrome are drugs that are categorized as benzodiazepines such as diazepam, lorazepam anti psychotic agents such as haloperidol, anti-convulsants such as topiramate carbamazepine, barbiturates, donidine and vitamins. Benzodiazepines are generally safe and effective for subduing the symptoms of withdrawal. It is also used in alcohol detoxification. Chlordiazepoxide and diazepam are the commonly used type in withdrawal treatments. Not only can benzodiazepines treat withdrawal, it can also be life saving if delirium tremens occur frequently during withdrawal. Furthermore, benzodiazepines has also the capacity to alleviate cravings for alcohol in individuals who had resolved to lessen their intake of alcohol. On the other hand, haloperidol, a kind of anti psychotic agent can also be effective in treating withdrawal especially in controlling agitation or psychosis, However, it may be possible that there can be worsening of the withdrawal effects since anti psychotics agents lowers the seizure threshold subjectively on some patients. Topiramate carbamazepine and other anti-convulsants are used for the treatment of alcohol withdrawal though it has not yet been fully proven with further research. Other effective treatments include baclofen which is just as effective as diazepam, barbiturates are commonly used in severe cases, clonidine, flumazenil, trazadone, magnesium and even alcohol itself are also used. Vitamins are also recommended for patients by experts. It is also advised to refrain from smoking since smoking can interfere with the recovery of brain pathways of the patients. Comments Off » Tags: Alcohol alcohol withdrawal syndrome alcohol withdrawals anxiety panic attacks delirium individual intake physiological dependence sedative hypnotics Symptoms Marijuana Abuse Is More Common Than You Think August 5th, 2011 Marijuana has been used by mankind for many thousands of years and yet there is a paucity of information about the exact number of people who are addicted to it: Although hard evidence is lacking about 5-10% of smokers who smoked pot will turn into chronic abusers of pot. Chronic smokers usually smoke more than two reefers a day and some may smoke as much as 10 reefers per day. Addiction to marijuana is similar to addiction to other drugs in that the individual initially smoke with control and over a period of time they tend to smoke more quantities of weed to get high and this leads to addiction. However there is a major difference between weed and other drugs in that weed does not cause physical dependence. It the high of grass that the smoker is in search of! Most smokers start pot in high school or college. Initially these are kind of social sessions with a lot of friends and fun. But over a period of time people start to smoke all by themselves and then the joint fills every single space and void in their lives. The enslavement of the individual is now complete. Therefore to help people figure out their addiction, I have designed this simple questionnaire about marijuana addiction. By honestly answering these questions one can reliably learn about their addiction status. Marijuana Addiction Test Answer these questions in simple yes or no format. There is no time limit, but it is advisable not to spend too much time on these questions as your answers can get biased. 1. Why do you smoke pot? Is it only for pleasure? 2. Is pot affecting every single aspect of your life? Do you leave office or parties to smoke a joint? Do you choose friends based on their marijuana use? 3. Do you smoke alone? 4. If you are out of pot, does it make you anxious and jittery? 5. Do you think that weed is a panacea to all your problems and avoid dealing with in the first place? 6. Are your memory concentration, judgment and motivation getting affected by smoking pot? 7. Does marijuana use let you live in a make believe world? 8. Do you feel the need to cut back or quit smoking pot? 9. Have you tried to quit smoking pot before and failed? 10. Do you find yourself constantly facing concerns from your friends and family members about your pot usage? 11. If weed is not around, do you instead drink alcohol or do other drugs? If you answer yes to more than six of these questions then you probably have a problem with marijuana abuse and the earlier one recognises it, easier is the remedy. Comments Off » Tags: addiction test individual information marijuana abuse marijuana addiction paucity physical dependence pleasure 2 use weed Recent Posts Some Healthy Extras Of 12-Step Meetings Taking Your Life Back Reaching For Good Health After Drugs And Alcohol Drug Addiction Tests You Can Do Right Now Drug Detox Breaks The Chains Of Addiction That Enslave An Addicts Life Tips To Beat Insomnia After Quitting Marijuana Real Effect of Extra Stamina from Penis Enhancement How Cocaine Can Affect You Drug Rehabilitation – A Path to Recovery The Best Appetite Suppressant Archives April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011