Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Incontinence - Medical Negligence Solicitors Australia : Compensation Claim Law Advice Clinical Negligence Australia NEGLIGENCE Compensation The Law Solicitors Laparoscopy Gynaecology Neonatal Care Cholestasis Subarachnoid Cauda Equina Cancer Diagnosis Dental Claims Gastric Band BIRTH INJURY Cerebral Palsy CP Causes CP Symptoms CP Treatment Erbs Palsy Shoulder Dystocia Urinary Incontinence Urinary incontinence is a loss of control of the bladder. This can cause mild leakage of the bladder or an uncontrollable flow of the bladder. It happens increasingly as you age. It can be stress incontinence, in which you dribble urine when you cough or sneeze or lift heavy objects, and it can be urge incontinence, in which you have the urge to urinate and cannot wait until you reach the bathroom in order to urinate. It can be an embarrassing problem but is usually completely treatable. Urinary incontinence affects millions of people, usually women above the age of 50 years. It can affect women of younger years shortly after giving birth. The cause of urinary incontinence can be many different things. It can be due to drying out of the tissue of the urethra or vagina after menopause causing the opening to the bladder to become not so narrow. Men with an enlarged prostate or who have had prostate surgery are at greater risk for incontinence. If the pelvic muscles become weak after childbirth, you have an increased risk of having incontinence. Certain medications can cause the condition and constipation can affect the disease. Those who are obese have greater pressure on the bladder and can have incontinence. If you have a urinary tract infection, the bladder is more irritable and you can have urge incontinence. Men and women with vascular disease can get bladder incontinence and diseases of the nerves, like Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and MS can get bladder incontinence. There are five type of incontinence that act differently from one another. Stress incontinence happens when you leak urine because of a sudden pressure on the lower stomach with weak muscles controlling bladder function. This can happen in cases of previous surgery or childbirth. Urge incontinence comes on very suddenly and you can't reach the toilet. It is common in urinary tract infections or in the elderly and comes from an overactive surgery. Overflow incontinence is caused by a bladder that is overflowing. It causes strain when urinating or blockage of the bladder outflow. It can be caused by certain medications or by diabetes. Functional incontinence means you have a normal bladder system but cannot get to the toilet due to arthritis or other ambulatory problems. Mixed incontinence is a problem involving more than one type of incontinence. Urinary incontinence is not just a normal part of getting older. Age can reduce the bladder size and can make for a weaker stream. You will need to urinate more often. You can have urinary incontinence as you age but it can be completely managed with doctor supervision. Symptoms of urinary incontinence include dribbling of urine with coughing or sneezing, dribbling unassociated with coughing or sneezing, problems with urinating while trying to get to the bathroom or urinating in your sleep. You can have bladder infection symptoms in some situations and can have no control over the flow of your bladder. You can have the sensation of incomplete bladder emptying with overflow leakage happening after you void. The treatment of urinary incontinence depends on the type of urinary incontinence you have. Bladder training and Kegel exercises can be done that can reduce stress incontinence. Kegel exercises strengthen the pelvic muscles so that they hold the bladder flow better. You can learn how to do Kegel exercises from a nurse or doctor. Bladder training is good for urge incontinence in which you learn to lengthen the time between bladder urges. You urinate at set intervals that are increased over time. Finally, you are urinating every 3-4 hours without difficulty. You practice relaxation of the bladder when you have the urge to go. Kegel exercises can help strengthen the bladder in this type of bladder problem as well. You need to wait out the urges in order to get past them and learn to urinate when you want to urinate and not when you are forced to urinate. It takes 3-12 weeks to complete bladder training. Medications can help bladder incontinence. Estrogen cream can be applied to the vaginal area which can prevent urethral and vaginal dryness. It can help women with stress incontinence. There are medications for urge incontinence as well that help the bladder hold onto urine more readily. Medications that shrink the prostate can help. Surgery can change the angle of the bladder in relation to the urethra and can help stress incontinence. THE WHOLE TRUTH. WHAT EVERY PATIENT VICTIM SHOULD KNOW CLICK HERE HELPLINE 1800 MEDNEG CONTACT Name Address 1 Address 2 Address 3 Home Tel Work Tel Mobile Tel Email Ne