
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 13:14:16 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: private
X-AspNet-Version: 4.0.30319
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

pain varicose vein - Top 7 Tips To Treat And Prevent Varicose Veins pain varicose vein - Top 7 Tips To Treat And Prevent Varicose Veins Top 7 Tips To Treat And Prevent Varicose Veins Some people think of varicose veins as nothing more than a cosmetic problem. Yes, those blue bulges and streaks just beneath the surface of the skin may be unsightly. But they are nothing to worry about, right? Well that depends. Varicose vein s can cause quite a bit of pain. And it is not the sort of pain that just disappears overnight. Once they show up on your legs, they are there for the long haul. A varicose vein forms when the wall of a vein weakens and develops a pocket. In these pockets the blood flow is slowed, leading to inflammation and a dull ache. Over time, your symptoms can intensify. The skin over the vein may become discoloured or dry and irritated. The vein itself may ulcerate, which can cause it to bleed. Since people tend to keep their varicose veins under wraps, you may not realize just how common this condition is. An estimated 30 to 60 percent of adults have them, the majority being women over age 40. Here are some tips that you can consider to adopt to treat and prevent varicose vein s. 100% Natural Varicose Vein Formula Natural Suplement for Varicose Veins Scientifically Formulated Based on Clinical Research: Get Rid of Varicose Veins! Heal leg veins Clinically Proven Ingredients Get Rid of Spider Veins User Ratings 4.9 / 5 2.	Stay Regular         Straining to move your bowels can affect the valves in the veins of your legs. When a valve does not function properly, it causes the vein wall to weaken, which sets the stage for a varicose vein. If you are prone to constipation, increase your fiber intake. Among the best food sources are fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain breads and cereals. 5.	Stock Up On Support        Support stockings compress the vein and help keep pain and inflammation in check. They provide varying degrees of pressure. Generally, the more severe the varicose vein, the more pressure that is required. You can buy stockings over the counter to start, but eventually, your doctor may have to write you a prescription for an even stronger pair. You should wear your stockings for all your waking hours, then take them off while you sleep. 7.	Favor Snug-Fitting Footwear         Your shoes can provide an extra measure of support in the foot and ankle area, which is just where you need it. You want the highest level of compression at the lowest part of your body. Just be sure your shoes are not so snug that they actually make your feet hurt. It is with much interest that we got about to write on Varicose Vein. So we do hope that you too read this article with the same, if not more interest! 6.	Shed Some Pounds         Overweight does not cause varicose vein, but it can definitely aggravate them. For one thing, it puts extra pressure on your legs - just what strained veins don't need. For another, it is usually a sign of inactivity, too much sitting or standing and not enough moving around. We were actually wondering how to get about to writing about Prevent Varicose Veins . However once we started writing, the words just seemed to flow continuously! 100% Natural Varicose Vein Formula Natural Suplement for Varicose Veins Scientifically Formulated Based on Clinical Research: Get Rid of Varicose Veins! Heal leg veins Clinically Proven Ingredients Get Rid of Spider Veins User Ratings 4.9 / 5 1.	Evaluate Estrogen         If you are a woman with a family history of varicose veins, taking birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy may increase your odds of developing the condition. Both contain estrogen, and estrogen opens certain connections between arteries and veins, increasing pressure. You may want to discuss your options with your doctor. A rolling stone gathers no moss. So if I just go on writing, and you don't understand, then it is of no use of me writing about Prevent Varicose Veins ! Whatever written should be understandable by the reader. 4.	Have A Seat When Necessary         Do not sit if you can walk, and do not stand if you can sit. If you have a job that requires you to stand for long periods of time, try to work it so that you can sit down once in a while. You should also try to walk around for at least 10 minutes every 1?? hours. Raymond Lee is one of the foremost experts in the health and fitness industry and is the Founder of Bodyfixes Group specializing in body health, muscle development and dieting. He is currently the author of the latest edition of "Neck Exercises and Workouts." Visit http://www.bodyfixes.com for more information. Learn More about Varicose and Spider Veins Home Remedies For Varicose Veins Treatment We all know what varicose veins look like-the hardened, bulging blue knots standing out in the legs which are caused, some people say, by heredity but which are likely to have been made for worse by neglect. The valves which control the flow of blood in veins and arteries collapse as a result of poor circulation which can be caused by carrying too much weight, especially during pregnancy.    

... Sclerotherapy Vein Treatment - Explained The enlargement off veins, called the spider vein or varicose veins is the major problem faced by most of the Americans today. With lots of advancements in medical cosmetic technology there are many options for treating the varicose veins. The Sclerotherapy Vein Treatment and Vasculight Laser Vein therapy are the two popular, very effective vein treatment options available today. Sclerotherapy... Benefits of Wearing Medical Compression Stockings While patients who suffer from varicose veins and other venous disorders may be well aware of the benefits of wearing compression stockings, however many other active people may not.  Simple fact of the matter is that most everyone can benefit from wearing compression stockings on a regular basis. Compression stockings are not only a wonderful treatment for varicose veins but they can also... More Quack Cures for Varicose Veins Many other quack remedies for varicose veins abound. A warm poultice made from the mashed roots of the comfrey (Symphytum officinale) plant is said to offer relief. 

This herb is rich in allantoin which supposedly accounts for the healing properties of the plant. No controlled studies, however, support this claim. Moreover, comfrey is potentially toxic. It contains small amounts of... Herbal Medicines For Hemorrhoids and Varicose Veins Hemorrhoids (piles) and varicose veins are common conditions caused by blood collecting in veins and not returning properly to the heart for recycling usually as a result of a weakness in valves in the veins but also because of an obstruction. Constipation (causing piles ) and pregnancy (causing varicose veins) are the usual culprits, though obesity, inactivity, the habitual use of laxatives and... minnesota varicose veins | pain varicose vein | oesophagus varicose | mount varicose | minneapolis varicose veins | oesophagal varicose veins | outpatient vein treatment | How do you stop spider veins itching penile varicose veins eczema on feet home varicose vein remedies ugliest penis photos stubborn spider leg veins how many laser treatments varicose seal varicose seal swollen vein on lip symptoms of collapsed vein in calf weeping varicose eczema (c) 2008 varicoseveinssurgery.