<http://wp.me/p10bA5-2Ly>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 02:22:22 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: e01a27e228bb54c46ab9b0e13c09af3c
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 01:22:22 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

How To Do Wound Care With Honey - Effective Tips To Use Honey To Heal Wounds | GoHerbalRemedies.com Beauty Diet Health Disorders Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Men's Health Natural Cures Sexual Women's Health Home » Natural Cures » How To Do Wound Care With Honey How To Do Wound Care With Honey 27 July, 2011 Written by awriter Tweet Honey was considered as an effective antiseptic from ages ago. It has been used for treating up wounds by a natural process. From centuries ago, honey has been used to cure wounds as a potent healer. In the year 1940, there came a revolution in the medical scenario and this revolution let to the development of antiseptics in medicinal biology. From this time onwards, the effectiveness of honey as an equally potent antiseptic, faded off.  But, there have been some changes that are witnessed by microbiologists that have again brought into light the use of honey for treating wounds . This is due to the proliferation and growth of certain exclusive microbial species of Antibiotic Resistant Organisms or AROs. These micro organisms are extremely tolerant against the medicinal antibiotics. For this specific reason, scientists have thought of working with the ancient antiseptic medicines. Scientists have therefore started to research in look for the correct scientific evidence that prove the fact that these age old medicines are well selective in this modern world. Honey is considered to be one of the oldest remedies to be applied externally for the healing of wounds . The medicinal background of honey is now being extensively researched by the ‘new eyes’. Effectiveness Of Honey The age old evidence proves that honey is an excellent healer over wounds. But one might not know the scientific causes for its action. When honey is being carefully applied over the burn of the wound, it neutralizes the burning sensation caused due to that respective wound. It is evident that when honey is applied externally over the cut surfaces, it soon gives relief from the burnt feeling. It has also been known that honey helps in the healing of the wound at an appreciably faster rate. There are three basic functions related to the effectiveness of honey. Starting with the first reason, it has been evident to improve the natural process of healing of the wound . Secondly, honey works excellently in helping out with the wound care by significantly dropping down the recovery time of the cut or the open wound. And last of all, it helps in fading off and alleviating the intensity of the scar formation. Out of all types of honey , Manuka honey is the one which is best suited to serve this purpose. Manuka honey has been scientifically found to be evident against the strains of the antibiotic-resistant parasites and bacteria. Manuka honey holds its name from a plant that is exclusively been grown in the plains of New Zealand. The plant is named as ‘Manuka’. Scientific Reason Of The Healing Process Till now, our discussion revolved around the basic functions of honey as an explicit healer. We would now look into the details of the scientific guidelines which root the fact. Monocytes are known to be a variety of the white blood cells that are evidently present in our blood stream and are being known to be responsible for causing the ‘phagocytosis’ of the foreign bodies present in the blood. Honey has been known to stimulate the production of these human Monocytes catering to the production of ‘inflammatory’ cytokines. When pathogens are sensitized to have attacked the host body or the human body then these cytokines are reported to be released by the immune cells. Honey boosts up the healing process . The exact reason behind it is that, honey is indirectly signals the immune cells to trigger the generation of these human cytokines such that the pathogen is inactivated at the earliest. Honey As An Anti-Bacterial Agent Honey has also been known to affect the highly resistant bacterial strains that are or might be evident over the exposed area of the cut unhealed wound. There are several reasons which have been found to be present in honey, as a result of which it is known to kill the strong bacterial pathogens. This effect is due 4 basic reasons. Honey is the creator of an acidic environment. This acidic environment consequently reduces the pH of the exposed skin area where the wound is there. This leads to the inactivation of the bacterial pathogens in this acidic condition. As a result, the pH of the entire skin falls down, enhancing the rate of recovery of the wound. One more reason is that honey is a rich source of sugar. This property of honey helps it to act against the germs and parasites by a natural mechanism. Honey has been documented on scientific grounds to contain hydrogen peroxide as a potent content in its composition. The presence of this chemical component helps it to be an effective measure against the bacterial infections as these wounds. Essential Tips To Be Followed There are a set of witty tips that are extremely effective in enhancing the recovery of the wound or the cut on the exposed skin. Wounds need to be cleaned up first before application of any medicine over it. A dilute alcohol or an antiseptic wash is an excellent first aid over the wound. Then one is instructed to take a clean cotton pad and spread an appreciable layer of honey over the pad. You must ensure that an appropriate amount of honey has been spread over the cut. Then, you must place the pad over the wound and tightly press it over. Dress the wound properly , leaving behind no exposed area so as to ascertain, the complete action of honey on the cut. For a 5 cm long cut, you must apply 1 table spoon of honey on the pad. You are also required to ensure that this honey has also been equally applied over the surrounding areas of the wound. For large cuts and deep bruises, you must apply honey over the wound assuring that the honey has been applied over it in adequate amount to cause noticeable effect, as well as to make it sure that the wound dressing has been accomplished by a water proof covering bandage. This is to prevent the sepsis of the wound or the deep bruise. If you enjoyed this post, please consider leaving a comment or subscribing to the RSS feed. Tweet Tags: healing power of honey, honey for wound care, use honey to heal wounds, use of honey for treating wounds, Subscribe to Magazine Follow @ayushveda Popular Natural Treatment for Foul Smell of Vagina - 790 views Natural Treatment for Swollen Glands - 697 views Gallbladder Diet - 532 views Natural Cure of Gastritis - 525 views Herbal Cure For Tuberculosis - 484 views Natural Cure For Dehydration - 458 views Natural Cure For Anal Fissures - 431 views Natural Skin Care Recipes for Glowing Flawless Skin - 416 views Home Remedy for High Blood Sugar - 369 views Natural Cure for Improving Sperm Count - 342 views Easy Treatment Tips for Foot Calluses - 330 views Diet for Typhoid Patient - 325 views Home Remedies For Delayed Period - 321 views Self Care Remedy for Thyroid Problem - 316 views Home Remedies For Pneumonia - 314 views Recent Posts 8 Home Remedies For An Appetite Suppressant 7 Home Remedies For A Burnt Tongue 8 Home Remedies to Increase Metabolism Natural Treatment For Celiac Disease Get Rid Of The Dandruff With The Herbal Cure Know The Herbal Cure For cholesterol Natural Treatments For Arrhythmia 6 Natural Remedies For Ulcerative Colitis 6 Home Remedies For Diverticular Disease Amazing Natural Treatments For Gerd Important Natural Treatments For Fleas Natural Cures For Thrush Important Top 10 Fruit Juices Catwalk Model Diet Facts About Gatorade Recent Posts 8 Home Remedies For An Appetite Suppressant 7 Home Remedies For A Burnt Tongue 8 Home Remedies to Increase Metabolism Natural Treatment For Celiac Disease Get Rid Of The Dandruff With The Herbal Cure Proud Theme of... Follow Us Subscribe Rss Feed Follow us on Twitter Join Facebook Copyright © 2012 GoHe