Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 00:51:57 GMT
X-Varnish: 2274328526
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Male Circumcision and HIV: Swaziland falls victim to mass HIV infection, shortage of medical personnel, and now false hope Male Circumcision and HIV Front Page The Intactivists The AAP/CDC Project FAQ ARCLaw Intact America Donate! « Africa begins to question HIV/circumcision link | Main | Zimbabwe editorial explains doubts over circumcision and HIV link » Sunday, February 04, 2007 Swaziland falls victim to mass HIV infection, shortage of medical personnel, and now false hope In a nation where the HIV infection rate is said to be nearing 50%, people are desperate. Getting sick with wholly curable diseases can be life-threatening. Getting HIV is a short-order yet slowly unfolding death sentence. It may take 10 years for HIV to begin to cause opportunistic diseases, but when it begins, it is a slow and inexorable descent into illness and agony. Swazi men have latched onto circumcision as their silver bullet. Yet, the question remains, in a country where half of all people have HIV already, will a procedure with marginal prevention value and no curative effect mean much? Many say no. And yet, what else is there when condoms and other methods of prevention have gone largely unused and unimplemented? The real question perhaps should be, is circumcision providing a hope that is largely absent otherwise? Is its value not in the alleged medical benefit, but rather in the hope it provides? Is it a talisman , a kind of national amulet to be carried in the loins of Swazi men? Even the article referenced below misstates and misunderstands circumcision, repeating speculation as to its alleged protective mechanism and making the astounding claim that condoms are only of limited effect . When the national media doesn't understand or know the facts, how can the poorly educated masses have any hope of implementing defensive measures against the disease? Swaziland, like many poor African nations, has a massive shortage of medical personnel. Therefore, the chances of obtaining a safe circumcision are low. It is entirely possible that circumcision may result in many sub-standard procedures. It will therefore likely spawn a new pathology of its own, if it takes hold in numbers. As Thoko Tsabedze, an HIV-positive mother from Macatjeni district south-east of the capital, explains, "It
is difficult even when you try to talk to your son about circumcision.
He says, 'How am I going to take a bath publicly with my friends, I
will be ridiculed'." At a 50% infection rate, it must be asked whether those who would contract the disease haven't already fallen victim. Even if circumcision had some protective effect, it likely would not benefit those who are now negative. The numbers needed to treat would be so high as to make it a worthless effort. In a country with so few resources, the latest national tragedy to befall Swaziland would be implementation of a superfluous surgery in place of whatever else is medically lacking. Complete text of the article after the jump. Circumcision fever begins to sweep Swaziland Male nurse Moshoeshoe Makhubu has helped in many circumcisions but is
visibly nervous as he prepares to undergo the snip himself, a procedure
he grudgingly admits may boost chances of remaining HIV-free. In
Swaziland, staying clear of the virus is hard as close to 40% of adults
are living with HIV/Aids, the highest infection rate anywhere in the
world according to the United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef). Trials
in Kenya and Uganda have shown that circumcision, while not providing
complete protection for the man, dramatically reduced the number of new
infections. Thirty-year-old Makhubu, who works at the government
hospital in the Swazi capital Mbabane, says he is aware he should
"still use other preventative measures" if he wants to remain healthy. Swaziland's
only expert in the field, urologist Adam Groenevald of Holland, says
the Kenyan and Ugandan trials -- which showed 53% and 48% reductions in
new infections respectively --- have got Swazis thinking. "There are voices against it, but the momentum of the whole thing cannot be stopped," he says. Many
nurses are bringing in their husbands and sons for the snip as
circumcision fever begins to sweep the country. Swaziland's health
ministry is eager to roll out a mass programme but is awaiting advice
first from the World Health Organisation. "If there was a
vaccine with 65% efficacy, the whole world would have jumped on it, but
an operation on the penis will not be that popular," Groenevald fears. His
office, a room in an abandoned ward, bears mute testimony to the
crippling shortage of nurses and doctors that will make the fulfilment
of such a programme in Swaziland even more difficult. Only 100
or so doctors serve the population of more than one million in this
south-east African mountain kingdom where two-thirds of people live in
poverty. "We have to make the medical establishment and policymakers ready for the go ahead," says Groenevald. "If
we are not ready and the go ahead comes there will be chaos. A number
of unqualified people will start offering circumcisions and we need to
avoid that at all costs." To try and satisfy soaring demand for
operations, doctors are being trained and are asked to help out on
special "circumcision days" when the procedure is offered free of
charge. These occasions typically see about 40 men operated
upon, but up to 100 others are routinely turned away because there are
not enough professional medical staff to carry out the circumcisions. Groenevald
highlights the need for more doctors, saying if 200 000 men wanted to
get circumcised -- a figure he deemed conservative -- it will require
40 000 operations to be performed annually for the next five years. Faith
Dlamini from the state-run National Emergency Response Council on
HIV/Aids says the government would first focus on circumcising the 15
to 30 age group as it ran the highest risk of infection. According
to the Unicef website, HIV prevalence among 20 to 30-year-olds is
already nearing 50%, higher than the national adult average. Apart
from the sheer logistical problem of finding the doctors, mass
circumcision faces deeper-rooted and more cultural barriers in
Swaziland. Swazi boys are not circumcised traditionally as is
the case in other parts of Southern Africa. A 19th-century king banned
the procedure, arguing that the lengthy healing process interfered with
boys' war-readiness. Thoko Tsabedze, an HIV-positive mother from Macatjeni district south-east of the capital, explains a common problem. "It
is difficult even when you try to talk to your son about circumcision.
He says, 'How am I going to take a bath publicly with my friends, I
will be ridiculed'." Vusi Dlamini from the Family Life
Association of Swaziland, the country's leading non-governmental
organisation tackling HIV/Aids, believes this thinking can be overcome
as people are very interested in circumcision and few view it as
"un-Swazi". The most popular theory behind circumcision's
protective effect is that the foreskin has a very thin epithelium, or
lining, and easily suffers minor abrasions during intercourse. These microscopic cuts make it easier for the Aids virus to enter the man's bloodstream. Until
now, the only prevention strategies have depended on condoms and sexual
abstinence, both of which are of only limited effect. Campaigners
caution that circumcision -- while low-cost, one-off and effective --
is no silver bullet and will not provide complete protection. "We want people to be aware it is not the answer, but an intervention within a package," says Faith Dlamini. - Sapa-AFP Reference Blandy, Fran. Circumcision fever begins to sweep Swaziland . Mail & Guardian Online. February 2, 2007. http://www.mg.co.za/articlepage.aspx?area=/breaking_news/breaking_news__africa/&articleid=297770 Posted by David Wilton at 07:00 AM in HIV Prevention , Trends | Permalink | Digg This | | TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451c18169e200d835732f8d69e2 Listed below are links to weblogs that reference Swaziland falls victim to mass HIV infection, shortage of medical personnel, and now false hope : Comments Swaziland falls victim to mass HIV infection, shortage of medical personnel, and now false hope In a nation where the HIV infection rate is said to be nearing 50%, people are desperate. Getting sick with wholly curable diseases can be life-threatening. Getting HIV is a short-order yet slowly unfolding death sentence. It may take 10 years for HIV to begin to cause opportunistic diseases, but when it begins, it is a slow and inexorable descent into illness and agony. Swazi men have latched onto circumcision as their silver bullet. Yet, the question remains, in a country where half of all people have HIV already, will a procedure with marginal prevention value and no curative effect mean much? Many say no. And yet, what else is there when condoms and other methods of prevention have gone largely unused and unimplemented? The real question perhaps should be, is circumcision providing a hope that is largely absent otherwise? Is its value not in the alleged medical benefit, but rather in the hope it provides? Is it a talisman , a kind of national amulet to be carried in the loins of Swazi men? Even the article referenced below misstates and misunderstands circumcision, repeating speculation as to its alleged protective mechanism and making the astounding claim that condoms are only of limited effect . When the national media doesn't understand or know the facts, how can the poorly educated masses have any hope of implementing defensive measures against the disease? Swaziland, like many poor African nations, has a massive shortage of medical personnel. Therefore, the chances of obtaining a safe circumcision are low. It is entirely possible that circumcision may result in many sub-standard procedures. It will therefore likely spawn a new pathology of its own, if it takes hold in numbers. As Thoko Tsabedze, an HIV-positive mother from Macatjeni district south-east of the capital, explains, "It
is difficult even when you try to talk to your son about circumcision.
He says, 'How am I going to take a bath publicly with my friends, I
will be ridiculed'." At a 50% infection rate, it must be asked whether those who would contract the disease haven't already fallen victim. Even if circumcision had some protective effect, it likely would not benefit those who are now negative. The numbers needed to treat would be so high as to make it a worthless effort. In a country with so few resources, the latest national tragedy to befall Swaziland would be implementation of a superfluous surgery in place of whatever else is medically lacking. Complete text of the article after the jump. View the entire comment thread. Subscribe and receive a numbered copy of The Intactivists: San Francisco Pride 2009-2010 as our thank you! Or buy the book online to support us! Here's why . { IAS 2011 - Rome } Did you know that our twitter feed includes many news items you won't find in the blog? Click on MC_HIV to view and follow our full twitter feed. Twitter Feed follow MC_HIV on Twitter Subscribe to this blog's feed Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Search About Male Circumcision and HIV provides a place for a public health policy debate on the linking of male circumcision and HIV/AIDS. It seeks to address questions of cost versus benefit, the effectiveness of circumcision in the fight against HIV/AIDS in real world settings, and the differing points of view of researchers, the media, and all contributors to the policy discussion. Contributors David Wilton David Wilton is a lawyer by training. He has a long-standing interest in issues of body integrity and HIV/AIDS. He maintains this site and blogs from San Francisco, California. His primary interests outside of nurturing a debate on the controversial measure of removing sexual tissue to reduce the spread of HIV are in the areas of international relations, languages, and journalism. Interviews Circumcision and HIV: A Conversation with David Wilton CUT, The PODCAST: In this episode, Eli Ungar-Sargon sits down with David Wilton of Male Circumcision and HIV to discuss the issue of circumcision and HIV-AIDS. Below, San Francisco attorney David Wilton discusses male circumcision, HIV, and human rights. Read a transcription of this interview here . San Francisco attorney David Wilton interviewed on Outlook Video viz human rights and male circumcision Contact Circumcisionandhiv.com PO Box 40312 San Francisco, CA 94140 [Please put CIRCUMCISIONANDHIV in the subject line.] San Francisco Pride Outreach 2011 2010 2009 Bonobo3D - Documenting Intactivism Intactivist Blogs infocirc End Routine Infant Circumcision IntactNews Barefoot Intactivist peaceful parenting Men Do Complain | Mythbusting Circumcision Choose Intact IntactByDefault no circumcision Beyond the Bris Jewish Intactivist Organizations קה"ל - קהילת הורים לילדים שלמים ברית מילה - חדשות מהארץ והעולם Beyond the Bris Jewish Circumcision Resource Center Jews Against Circumcision ברית מילה Gonnen.org Intactivist Organizations The WHOLE Network: Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information - The WHOLE Network - Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information Circumcision Information Resource Center of Colorado Doctors Opposing Circumcision NORM - The National Organization of Restoring Men MGMbill.org International Coalition for Genital Integrity - Intactivist Group Bay Area Intactivists | Promoting Genital Integrity For All Intaction.org to End Infant Circumcision Now ARC - Attorneys for the Rights of the Child National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers  Intactivists Intactivist Allies ~ Peaceful Parenting ~ Woman, Uncensored TLC Tugger The Teapot Atheist The Lifelube Blog - gay . sexy . healthy The Kvetcher · David Kelsey The Guggie Daily Tantalus Prime Stop Circumcision RollingDoughnut.com NOHARMM Home Page mothering magazine - inspiring natural families since 1976 ManHood: The foreskin substitute for men who are circumcised, foreskin restoration, or intact with penile discomfort Intactivism Pages - HIV page History of Circumcision Growing with my Girls Gloria Lemay Global Health Council Gene Expression DailyKos: Diarist RealityBias Cut: The Film Circumcision information for Australians | Circinfo.org Circumcision Information and Resource Pages Blog powered by TypePad Amazon.com Widgets Categories 15th CROI (2008) AAP 2010 AAP NCE 2009 Affliction Fiction AIDS 2008 - Mexico City AIDS 2012 ASHM 2008 Circumcision Journalism Crazy Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) Genital Integrity Genital Integrity 2008 Genital Integrity 2010 Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis Health Care Policy HIV Prevention IAS 2007 - Sydney IAS 2009 - Cape Town IAS 2010 - Vienna IAS 2011 - Rome Informed Consent Intactivism Law MSM, Same Sex Issues NHPC 2009 Notebook Off Topic pdf files Prevalence Pro-Circumcision Lobby Public Policy Activism Q & A Religion Research & Politics Science SFMGMBill.org Trends Vaccines Web/Tech Weblogs Around the Web Circumcision and AIDS at MGMbill.org A decidedly anti-circumcision site with a calm approach to addressing the human rights issues likely to become problematic in the rush to roll out circumcision as an HIV prophylactic. Circumcision and HIV at circumstitions.com One of the most thorough reviews anywhere of circumcision and the history behind the HIV prevention community's study of it. The science behind this prophylactic tool is much more equivocal than the most recent researchers would have you believe. New Zealand based. Circumcision and HIV: Harm Outweighs Benefits from circumcision.org From the Circumcision Resource Center, Boston, Massachusetts. This human rights organization has published such books as Questioning Circumcision: A Jewish Perspective and Circumcision: The Hidden Trauma . Sitting on its board are a number of individuals affiliated with Harvard and other Ivy League institutions. Circumcision and HIV infection from CIRP.org From the Circumcision Information Resource Pages. An excellent primer on the issue. Doctors Opposing Circumcision statement on HIV Doctor's Opposing Circumcision is a Seattle based physicians group that provides education, information and advice on medical circumcision and its effects. Statement on AIDS and Circumcision from the International Coalition for Genital Integrity Another thorough treatment of male circumcision's likely impact on the spread of HIV from an "alliance of organizations dedicated to protecting the normal anatomy of males, females and the intersexed ... [that] was formed to coalesce the many activist organizations, each with a specific focus, into one, common voice." Does circumcision prevent HIV infection? - NORM-UK John Dalton puts together a critique of the African studies and their weaknesses. He examines the evidence, appropriateness, and possible outcomes from promoting circumcision and calling it a "prevention." Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 Jul