
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 18:21:36 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Nature's Cancer Prevention - Vitamin B17 Shopping Cart Forum Help Hair Mineral Analysis Testing Services Nutrition Toxins Complete Alternative Nutrition Detoxification Program Nutrition Counseling Phone Consultations Alternative Health Questions About About Dr. Hull Media & Press Calendar of Events Contact Us Products & Services Dr. Hull's Books Detoxification Program Cancer Prevention Diet pH Balance Testing Hair Analysis Testing Vitamins & Supplements Nutrition Counseling Ask Dr. Hull Frequently Asked Questions Nutritional Counseling Free Teleseminars Message Board Forum FREE Newsletter Current Issue Past Issues Sign up for Free January 2012 Issue Introduction Healthy Feedback The Right Kind of Calcium Nature's Nightcap  - Tea The NuVal Eval System Q & A with Dr. Hull Did You Know - About Tea? Healthy pH Recipes Cured: A Cannabis Oil Story December 2011 Issue Introduction Healthy Feedback Concentrated Sweet Poison From China A Revolution In Caring  - The Birth of a New Tradition Q & A with Dr. Hull Did You Know - About Love? Healthy Holiday Recipes Enjoying the Moment Nature's Cancer Prevention - Vitamin B17 Have you ever heard of vitamin B17? Maybe you have heard of its other name - Laetrile. Americans cannot access vitamin B17 because the FDA took it off the market in the 1970s, and removed it from the B-Complex vitamins. It is unlawful for any health practitioner to administer this vitamin to patients. Apricot seeds are the best source for B17, but they have also been removed from the shelves of every health food store and natural market throughout the USA. Limited research has been conducted on vitamin B17 since 1977. Once it was banned, it was forgotten. According to research from years ago, provided by nutritionists and medical scientists, vitamin B17 is a natural cyanide-containing compound that gives up its cyanide content only in the presence of a particular enzyme group called beta glucosidase or glucuronidase.  Miraculously, this enzyme group is found almost exclusively in cancer cells.  If found elsewhere in the body, it is accompanied by greater quantities of another enzyme, rhodanese, which has the ability to disable the cyanide and convert it into completely harmless substances.  Cancer tissues do not have this protecting enzyme. So, according to past scientific knowledge, cancer cells are faced with a double threat: the presence of one enzyme exposing them to cyanide, while the absence of another enzyme found in all other normal cells results in the cancer's failure to detoxify itself.  Leave it to nature to provide a form of cyanide that can naturally destroy a cancer cell.  The cancer cells that are unable to withstand the cyanide are destroyed, while the non-cancerous cells are not threatened by the cyanide, and, therefore, remain unharmed.  Never underestimate the body's potential! Vitamin B17 is found naturally in many foods.  If you eat foods containing vitamin B17, your body will know what to do next.  All other animals in nature instinctively do this.  Consider it nature's cancer prevention.  If only modern medicine would allow it. San Francisco's Ernst T. Krebs, Sr., M.D. discovered the healing qualities of vitamin B17 in 1923.  His sons, Ernst T. Krebs, Jr., PhD., and Byron Krebs, M.D. continued their father's research in 1952, refining Laetrile's (B17) nutritional qualities. From their research, the Krebs believed cancer was not caused by an outside invading force but rather by malfunctions of the normal mechanics within the body itself. They identified cancer as a "deficiency disease." The body's malfunctions, according to their research, were the result of a deficiency of certain chemicals found in food, a deficiency of chemicals they specifically identified as vitamin B17, as well as a deficiency of enzymes known as trypsins produced in the pancreas. The Krebs had discovered a natural, drugless method to help prevent cancer.  But their discovery wasn't original. Years prior to any of the Drs. Krebs' works, Drs. George B. Wood and Franklin Bache, M.D. published a reference volume in 1833 in which they described amygdalin, derived from B17, as a common treatment for a wide range of diseases and disorders. Vitamin B17 is also referred to as a nitriloside, which is the foundation for Laetrile, amygdalin, and prunasin.  Together with the pancreatic enzyme trypsin, these can form a natural barrier against cancer growth.  If foods containing any of the nitrilosides are eaten regularly, the body's own immune mechanisms can naturally battle cancer-forming cells.  But if foods containing these critical vitamins are not regularly consumed (or manufactured), nature's mechanisms can't work as effectively against the buildup of factors at the root of cancer and the countless number of degenerative diseases. This is happening to human beings today.  Not only are advanced societies environmentally polluted to dangerous levels, but also more and more foods are being altered from their natural state by man's own doing.  Modern freeze-dried, fat-free, sugar-free, calorie-free, weight-watchful, microwavable artificial food substitutes don't contain nitrilosides. Most food manufacturers don't even know what nitrilosides are. Never in human history have artificial foods saturated with preservatives and unhealthy chemicals dominated the food supply to the degree they do today.  Modern nourishment is no longer nourishing. In the late 1970's, Dr. Harold W. Manner, PhD., Chairman of the Biology Department at Loyola University, Chicago, Illinois, studied the overall value of Laetrile (B17).  His work was well respected and considered among the first unbiased studies since the Krebs' in the 1920s.  He reported Laetrile as being virtually non-toxic. When Dr. Manner used Laetrile in his medical research, along with vitamin A and digestive enzymes, he discovered the production of antibodies was stimulated against spontaneous breast tumors in his laboratory mice.  He studied the results of complete regression in 76 percent of the treated mice with mammary gland cancers. Dr. Manner believed Laetrile received its best results when used in conjunction with digestive enzymes, a traditional balanced diet, and with vitamin A. No physician has had more clinical experience with Laetrile than Ernesto Contreras, Sr., M.D. of the Contreras Hospital in Tijuana, Mexico, formerly The Oasis Of Hope Hospital.  Dr. Contreras has clinically used Laetrile for more than forty years on thousands of terminally diagnosed patients, and has received impressive results. One of Dr. Contreras' patients was a man suffering from severe colon cancer.  Using Laetrile treatments in conjunction with detoxification protocols and proper vitamin supplementation, Contreras was able to arrest the progression of his patient's cancer.  The man lived more than fifteen years beyond his predicted death. The following is a list of foods rich in vitamin B17: - Watercress -	Spinach -	Bamboo sprouts -	Alfalfa sprouts -	Lentil sprouts -	Whole nuts -	Mung bean sprouts -	Ground nuts -	Garbanzo sprouts -	Apple seeds -	Apricot seeds Contact AwesomeOrder.com for more information on B17 and B17 products. For more information about cancer prevention, please visit  Dr. Hull's Richardson Cancer Prevention Diet . Posted June 2006
| Permanent Link Dr. Hull's Recommended Products Dr. Hull has selected the best resources on the web to get her recommended products. Browse the following products Dr. Hull highly recommends to keep you and your family healthy. Bionic Bands » Give your body more strength, balance, energy and alignment. Niacin, 50 mg » Great for: Detoxing, High Blood Pressure, Liver Health, Children Wobenzym N » Great for: Allergies, Immune System, Nausea Relief Vitamin C 1000 » Great for: Immune System, Colds, Detoxing, Flu & Viral Hair Analysis Testing » Identify hidden toxins in your body by having your hair analyzed with Dr. Hull. Visit Dr. Hull's Vitamin Directory » Other Articles In The January Issue Introduction Healthy Feedback The Right Kind of Calcium Nature's Nightcap  - Tea The NuVal Eval System Q & A with Dr. Hull Did You Know - About Tea? Healthy pH Recipes Cured: A Cannabis Oil Story Other Articles In This Category Pump Up Your Immune System - June 2011 Pharmaceutical Farming - June 2011 Changing Your Body Oil - April 2011 Ah - Pure B3 Niacin - April 2011 Setting Your Body's Clock - April 2011 Online Hair Analysis Testing Discover hidden toxins in your body with Dr. Hull's hair mineral analysis service. Dr. Hull's Message Board Have something to say? Post a comment or discuss articles on Dr. Janet Starr Hull's Free Alternative Health Forum ! Healthy Newsletter Archive Archive By Month Archive By Topic Archive Index Active Forum Topics Aspartame effects to me? Splenda and Coffee Don't Ignore Your Pancreas Main Newsletter Articles Q & A with Dr. Hull Aspartame - NutraSweet Detoxification Sucralose - Splenda Vitamins and Supplements Stay Connected! Message Board Forum Looking for something specific? Search our entire network of sites... The Healthy Newsletter Most Recent Issue Introduction Healthy Feedback The Right Kind of Calcium Nature's Nightcap  - Tea The NuVal Eval System Q & A with Dr. Hull Did You Know - About Tea? Healthy pH Recipes Cured: A Cannabis Oil Story Alternative Health Forum Most Recent Topics Aspartame effects to me? Splenda and Coffee Don't Ignore Your Pancreas Main Newsletter Articles Q & A with Dr. Hull Aspartame - NutraSweet Detoxification Sucralose - Splenda Vitamins and Supplements View More Topics Most Popular Products Dr. Hull's Hair Analysis Program Discover hidden toxins in your body that may be contributing to negative health symptoms. Dr. Hull provides a specific nutrition interpretation and wellness recommendations. View More Info >> Home | About | Media | Terms Of Use | Privacy Policy | Site Map | &nbsp&nbsp Copyright © 2011 Dr. Janet Starr Hull. All rights reserved. DISCLAIMER AND USE OF COPYRIGHTED MATERIAL WARNING: All material on this website and published in Dr. Janet Hull's books and newsletters are copyrighted materials and protected under U.S. and International copyright laws. No copyrighted material on any of Dr. Janet Hull's websites, or any material published in Dr. Janet Starr Hull's books, whether in whole or part, may be posted or placed onto another website, and may not be posted into any newsgroup, onto any message boards, or emailed on the Internet without the expressed written permission of Dr. Janet Hull or her agents. Information within this site is not intended to replace legal, medical, or any other professional service. The information provided is not a replacement for professional advice or care. If you require nutritional, medical, or other expert services, please seek appropriate professional care. The author, contributors, publisher and their employees are not liable or held accountable for any damages arising from or in association with the application of any information contained in this Detoxification Program. Statements about the product efficacy have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration nor have the products been