Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

FirstHealth of Andover - Allergies and Acupuncture Your browser does not support script Acupuncture and Chinese Herbal Medicine = Allergy 
                            Relief Finding Solutions 
                            for Debilitating Allergies, Painful Sinus Headaches, 
                            and More How a patient found 
                            solutions for her debilitating allergies, painful 
                            sinus headaches, menopausal symptoms, and more. E.C., a 50-year old 
                            Andover resident, had suffered from allergies for 
                            only about five weeks, when she  visited 
                            FirstHealth of Andover and consulted with me on her 
                            condition. E.C. had been examined and diagnosed by 
                            her primary care provider who prescribed a common 
                            allergy medication. She was experiencing ever 
                            increasing symptoms of itchy eyes, post nasal drip, 
                            and painful sinus headaches. She was concerned about 
                            taking her medication because her past medical 
                            history included intermittent menopausal symptoms, 
                            restless leg syndrome and chronic immune fatigue 
                            deficiency syndrome (CIFDS), which many may 
                            recognize as chronic fatigue syndrome. She was 
                            concerned the medications had made her feel even 
                            more dry and thirsty as well as fatigued. She could 
                            not afford to have these two conditions become 
                            aggravated while trying to treat her newly diagnosed 
                            allergies. What to do? She wanted to know if we had 
                            any solutions. Allergy Sufferers 
                            Frustrated with Medications This patient is not 
                            alone in her search for solutions to allergy 
                            symptoms, which have become less seasonal and more 
                            year round. The National Institute of Allergy and 
                            Infectious Disease reports more than 50 million 
                            Americans suffer from allergic diseases. Allergies 
                            have become the sixth leading cause of chronic 
                            disease in our country. People are looking 
                            everywhere for relief. When your friends notice your 
                            runny nose, sneezing fits and your attempts to 
                            scratch your own eyes out, they usually want to help 
                            by referring you to a product or service that has 
                            helped them. Drug store sales of allergy/sinus 
                            tablets increased 17.8% for the year ended by 
                            January 22 nd as stated by the Chain Drug 
                            Review ( May 2006 ). They go on to note an annual volume 
                            of $1.1 billion in drug store sales alone in the 
                            country. While this amount of money reflects a 
                            strong trend in choices for treatment, the Asthma 
                            and Allergy Foundation of America reported in their 
                            March survey that nearly a third (31%) of allergy 
                            patients are not satisfied with their current 
                            prescription allergy medication.  The reason pointed 
                            out in the survey for these respondents being 
                            dissatisfied is that their current medication does 
                            not relieve their allergy symptoms for a long enough 
                            period of time. The survey also found that 47% of 
                            patients are taking multiple allergy prescription 
                            drugs, while 36% reported taking their prescription 
                            allergy drugs with non-prescription allergy 
                            medications. This is not only expensive, but raises 
                            some concern with health care providers about the 
                            safety of such practices.  People are still looking 
                            for solutions. Let’s read on to see how our patient 
                            from Andover made out with her worrisome symptoms. Acupuncture to 
                            the Rescue! The main symptom that 
                            drove E.C. into our clinic was to get relief from 
                            continual pain of sinus headaches. The pressure, 
                            facial discomfort along with her drippy runny nose 
                            and itchy eyes was getting to be too much to handle. 
                            We began her treatments with a course of 
                            acupuncture, which is widely used to successfully 
                            treat such symptoms. Acupuncture’s effects as an 
                            anti-inflammatory, analgesic (pain relief) and 
                            circulatory agent can be used on the tight 
                            hard-to-reach sinus membranes just as we use these 
                            qualities to help painful tight muscles. Acupuncture 
                            does not react with any medication whether it’s 
                            prescription or over-the-counter and does not have 
                            the side effects that raised concerns with our 
                            patient. The patient reported relief from sinus 
                            pressure and pain even after the first treatment 
                            with an alleviation of some of the “foggy headed” 
                            feeling she described in her initial visit.  Over 
                            the next couple weeks E.C. reported no sinus 
                            headaches, less or no itchy eyes and more physical 
                            and mental energy. She began a walking regime and 
                            felt good about her progress. She described herself 
                            as 80% improved in her allergy symptoms. Options Are a 
                            Good Thing Working with her 
                            physician, E. C. then stopped all her allergy 
                            medications that had been prescribed and her use of 
                            over-the-counter drugs. They had experienced 
                            sufficient allergy relief and the medications may 
                            have contributed to difficult falling and staying 
                            asleep. Menopausal symptoms were becoming more 
                            noticeable and her doctor agreed to see how she felt 
                            without them. This is a good example of how we at 
                            FirstHealth of Andover work with your existing 
                            health care providers. The patient was taking 
                            prescription medications at the time of her first 
                            visit. This is typical in our society, and we use 
                            acupuncture as an adjunct therapy. It’s safe and 
                            effective for many conditions. The first goal is to 
                            help a patient feel better, while on their 
                            medication. We help to reduce the gap in care that 
                            often exists. Patients feel better on their 
                            medications, but not good enough. As we are able to 
                            assist them with relief, there may be a choice to 
                            reduce or eliminate some or all of their 
                            medications. That is up to the patient and their 
                            doctors. In E.C.’s case she was able to work with 
                            her physician to see how she felt without her 
                            allergy medications. Let’s get back to our patient 
                            and see how this ends up. More Customized 
                            Herbal Medicines Provide Allergy Relief and More Perimenopausal symptoms 
                            were becoming more of an issue. She reported an 
                            increasing number of hot flashes, irregular 
                            menstruation, mood swings along with the CIFDS 
                            symptoms of unrefreshing sleep, which led to greater 
                            fatigue. Allergy symptoms were still improved and 
                            restless leg syndrome flared up with poor sleep. We 
                            decided to add Chinese herbal medicine as an adjunct 
                            therapy to her acupuncture. The combination worked 
                            well. As she began to feel consistently better, we 
                            cut back on her acupuncture visits. We found that 
                            the herbal medicine could successfully treat her 
                            allergy, menopausal, restless leg and CIFDS 
                            symptoms. She used acupuncture therapy on an as 
                            needed basis for any acute symptoms and managed the 
                            other conditions with our customized Chinese herbal 
                            medicine. Her office visits were infrequent, and we 
                            could modify her custom herbal prescription if a new 
                            symptom appeared, as was done successfully to treat 
                            her night sweats and poor sleep. With her energy 
                            level consistent and symptoms managed, our patient 
                            is free to enjoy her life and family. That’s the 
                            goal … Freedom. - David Sollars, M.Ac., 
    Lic.Ac., H.M.C TESTIMONIALS Videos It’s My Favorite Part of My Week: Acupuncture: It Changed My Life Walking Angels: Staff at FirstHealth of Andover I Feel Like Myself Again It's Just Wonderful It Changed My Whole Life One Man’s Journey to Health: Overcoming Chronic Issues With Coordinated Care What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience Talented and Caring Staff Under One Roof 100% Cooperation To Find Solutions I Consider It A Miracle: Advanced Health & Fitness Specialist Freedom Within Severe Arthritis I Now Know What To Do Children with Anxiety - Homeopathy: A Parent's Experience Dyslexia and Anger Issues - Homeopathy: A Parent's Experienc Homeopathy: Seemed Simpler and Faster Homeopathy: Another Tool For Parents Acupuncture For Health: I Keep Going Acupuncture: It Makes You Feel Wonderful Treatments For Low Back Pain: Success Through Acupuncture and Exercises Help With Acute Low Back Pain It Doesn't Hurt At All I Really Feel It's A Great Place Getting Through A Difficult Time I Can Breathe: Acupuncture assists Chronic Sinusitis The Gift: Coordinated Cancer Care The Integrative Therapies During Cancer Care Client-Centered Care: Benefits of Massage I'm Walking in Heels!!! Acupuncture helps joint pain Overcome 
		Back Pain Melt Away Stress Low Back Pain Chronic Pain Staying Active! Workplace Stress Cool 
		Down Hot Flashes! Articles Acid Reflux Allergies 1 Allergies 2 Auricular 
        Acupuncture Breast Cancer Care Breech Pregnancy Bursitis Back Pain Colds Compartment Syndrome Debilitating Allergies Depression Fibromyalgia Foot Injury Infertility Interstitial Cystitis Irritable 
        Bowel & Crohn's Knee and Foot Pain Labor Low Back 
        Pain (1) Low Back Pain (2) Low Back Pain (3) Lymphatic System Making the Team! Multiple Sclerosis 
        and Acupuncture Multiple Sclerosis and Exercise Multiple Sclerosis and 
        Fatigue Muscle Spasms Nausea in Pregnancy Non Hodgkins Painful Menses Painful 
        Sinus Headaches Path Back to 
        Health Painful Reflux Sports Injury Tight Hamstrings Traumatic Brain 
        Injury Weight Loss Research, 
									Discounts, Special Events JOIN THE CLINIC CLUB TODAY!! As a 
				club member, you will receive special discount coupons, health 
				and research bulletins, and special event updates to our 
				FirstHealth team of speakers. DIRECTIONS | MISSION STATEMENT | TERMS OF USE | PATIENT PRIVACY | CONTACT US | HOME © 2010  FirstHealthofAndover™.  All Rights 
		Reserved.  One Dundee Park, Andover, MA 01810    978 - 474 - 9994 Serving 
        S