
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:59:19 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
X-Host: p1w107.geo.sp1.yahoo.com
X-INKT-URI: http://www.4naturalhealth.com//atkins-ginkgo.html
X-INKT-SITE: http://www.4naturalhealth.com
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:59:19 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:59:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Dr. Atkins on Ginkgo Products Click here for product data sheets DailyLife Personal Products AIMega Omega369 AIM BarleyLife AIM Bear Paw Garlic (USA) AIM CalciAIM AIM Cascara Sagrada AIM Cell Sparc 360 AIM Cell Wellness AIM Composure AIM Fiber Balance AIM Fit 'n Fiber AIM Flora Food AIM Frame Essentials AIM Garden Trio AIM GinkgoSense AIM GlucoChrom AIM Herbal Fiberblend AIM Herbal Release AIM HumiKleanse AIM Just Carrots AIM Kyolic Garlic (CAD) AIM LeafGreens AIM Para90 AIM Peak Endurance AIM PrepZymes AIM Proancynol AIM ProPeas AIM ReAssure AIM RediBeets AIM Renewed Balance AIM RevitaFem Home > Articles on Health > Dr. Atkins on Ginkgo Dr. Atkins on Ginkgo The following article is an excerpt from Dr. Atkins' Vita Nutrient Solution : Ginkgo Biloba "Derived from the world’s oldest living species of tree, Ginkgo biloba is the most important plant-based medicine available.  An important part of mainstream medicine in Europe, with sales accounting for more than 1 percent of all pharmaceutical purchases, it’s widely heralded as a mental and vascular stimulant and a powerful protector of the brain, liver, eyes, and circulatory system." "As more than three hundred studies demonstrate, ginkgo facilitates better blood flow throughout the body, notably the brain, where it both protects and promotes memory and mental function, even for people with Alzheimer’s disease.  The greater flow of blood also can stabilize an irregular heart rhythm, help men to sustain erections, and ease the numbness and pain of intermittent claudication, a circulatory disorder of the legs. Taking the extract also can be helpful in treating cataracts, retinopathy, macular degeneration, tinnitus, dizziness, asthma, headaches, premenstrual syndrome, and depression." "Almost all of the ginkgo research tested an extract standardized to contain a 24 percent concentration of flavonglycosides, the plant’s active chemical ingredients. Weaker preparations might be beneficial, but I’d stick with using those products, whose label specifies the 24 percent concentration .  No one with a serious mental or vascular problem should give in to drug therapy, I believe, without first trying ginkgo in a therapeutic range of 240-360 mg per day.  For general mental acuity, anyone forty years old or older should take 120-160 mg per day.  As a matter of fact, ginkgo’s wide range of benefits, combined with its virtual complete safety, makes it worth trying for just about anyone." AIM Ginkgo Sense Contains 120 mg of ginkgo biloba extract standardized to contain 24% ginkgo flavonglyccosides and 6% terpene lactones. Also contains 40 mg of bilberry extract, 400 mcg of lutein, 18 mcg of zeaxanthin and 2.5 g of DHA, as fish oil Regularly: USD$
25.00 Your Price: USD$ 19.00 Click here for more info on GinkgoSense 5% Discount Free Membership Click here to find out more! Copyright © 4NaturalHealth.com. All rights reserved. Design by Ladyoz . Prices are subject to change without notice.
This page contains copyrighted materials and/or trademarks of AIM International, Inc. and is reprinted with permission. All articles and information on this website are for educational purposes only. They are not to be regarded or relied upon as medical advice. The articles and information have not been evaluated by the FDA. Consult your health practitioner if you have health problems. AIM products are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat, mitigate, o