Set-Cookie: pers_cookie_insert_healthology_newweb_80=1757663808.20480.0000; expires=Thu, 03-May-2012 03:49:53 GMT; path=/

Asthma Treatment - Alternatives for Allergies and Asthma: Proceed with Caution Allergy Alzheimer's Disease Arthritis Asthma Breast Cancer Cardio Health Colon Cancer Diabetes Dieting Epilepsy Hair Loss Headache Heartburn HIV & AIDS Kidney Health Leukemia Lung Cancer Lymphoma Multiple Sclerosis Men's Health Mental Health Nutrition Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Prostate Health Skin Health Sleep Disorders Women's Health Advertisement Asthma Asthma Treatment Alternatives for Allergies and Asthma: Proceed with Caution Author: Christine Haran Medically Reviewed On: September 19, 2010 Today, people are almost as familiar with the herbal supplement echinacea as they are with aspirin. So it's no surprise that many Americans are turning to complementary and alternative (CAM) therapies to treat their allergy and asthma symptoms. When it comes to conditions for which people seek out nontraditional treatments, studies suggest that asthma and allergies are second only to lower back pain. It's estimated that allergies affect 40 to 50 million Americans, and about 20 million have asthma. While herbal supplements and other complementary and alternative therapies, such as hypnosis and acupuncture, may ease some symptoms, experts say people have to be careful about which CAM treatment they choose. Not only are some people with allergies particularly susceptible to adverse drug reactions, but there is also a chance that some alternative remedies may interact with other medications. Why Go Alternative? You may wonder why people are turning to alternatives when there are many medications, both prescription and over-the-counter, that successfully treat asthma and allergies. Like many people with chronic medical conditions, those who suffer from asthma and allergies are often particularly interested in trying new, “natural” treatments. However, natural doesn't necessarily mean without side effects, and just like medications made by pharmaceutical companies, “natural” products can be powerful and toxic. Another driving force behind the move toward alternative remedies may be the high cost of allergy and asthma medicines, says Dr. Gailen Marshall, a professor of medicine and director of the clinical immunology, asthma and allergy division at the University of Mississippi in Jackson. For example, some patients who have both allergies and asthma may choose to only treat their asthma to cut costs. But they may run into trouble quickly, because flaring allergies can worsen asthma symptoms. When this happens, Marshall says, people are more inclined to turn to CAM therapies, which are typically less expensive than prescriptions. Safety Concerns Unlike drug makers, manufacturers of herbal products and other dietary supplements do not have to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of their products to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). So little may be known about the true effects of a particular CAM product. In a study published in a supplement devoted to CAM therapies in the Annals of Allergy , Asthma and Immunology , Dr. Leonard Bielory of the UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School in Newark reviewed the medical literature to uncover the possible benefits as well as consequences of popular CAM therapies for asthma, allergies and immune system conditions. Page 1 of 2 Next Page >> RELATED PROGRAMS Video - The Basics of Allergy Transcript Video - The Right Treatment for Your Allergies Transcript Video - Asthma 101 Transcript Advertisement HealthVideo.com Â© 2008 NBC Digital Health Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy - Disclaimer - Editorial Poli