
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 09:25:51 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: private, no-cache="set-cookie"
Expires: 0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Osteopaths UK • View topic - Cheshire Osteopaths Stockport Uk Osteopaths UK South Cheshire Osteopathic Clinics Skip to content Advanced search Board index ‹ Osteopathic Clinic ‹ Seeking Advice Change font size Print view FAQ Register Login Cheshire Osteopaths Stockport Uk Help each other Post a reply 3 posts
			 • Page 1 of 1 Cheshire Osteopaths Stockport Uk by evomeoseMaw » Mon Dec 17, 2007 2:50 pm About Osteopathy Introduction Osteopathy was founded by Dr Andrew Still, a medical practitioner in Kansas, USA, in 1874. The first school of osteopathy was chartered in Missouri in 1892. Medical knowledge was, of course, at that time very limited. With increasing medical knowledge the whole practice of medicine has radically changed and, inevitably the practice of osteopathy has been modified; yet the basic ideas enunciated by Still remain valid. Wide Scope of Application The most frequent visitors to osteopaths are patients suffering from what are commonly called "back troubles". These conditions usually respond to treatment whether the condition is of recent origin or long standing. Patients who have almost resigned themselves to “having to live with” pain are frequently surprised to find themselves quite well after only a few treatments. Many who have had to wear surgical supports soon find they can do without them. The widespread incidence of back pain and the success of osteopathy in providing quick relief in many cases has given the osteopath the reputation of being "the man who fixes backs". However the scope of osteopathy extends far beyond treating back pain and patients new to this therapy are often surprised to find out how much the osteopath can do for them. Although much of an osteopath's work is concerned with diagnosing and correcting osteopathic lesions in the spinal column, his skill is in no way limited to spinal adjustments. Injuries and other painful conditions of joints anywhere in the body often respond more quickly and more successfully to osteopathy than any other form of treatment. Muscular aches and pains, including those usually referred to as "rheumatism" are among the most common conditions treated by osteopaths. Many other ailments are also responsive to osteopathic treatment. The Osteopathic Lesion Most people have heard of the osteopathic lesion but its meaning is frequently misunderstood and this has led to unjustifiable and unnecessary criticism of osteopathy. An osteopathic lesion does not mean that there is "a little bone out of place". This was the explanation offered by old time bone-setters and manipulators for results which they achieved without knowing why. Neither does an osteopathic lesion necessarily imply what is colloquially known as "a slipped disc". The word "lesion" is derived from the Latin "laedo" which simply means "I hurt". In osteopathy we use the word to denote a specific type of joint dysfunction, usually in the spinal column. An osteopathic lesion is simply a joint in which there is anything from a slight to a total limitation of the normal physiological range of movement. Osteopathic lesions may be caused by injury (either slight or severe), by disease, bad posture or some persistent abnormal stimulus. The patient is sometimes only too well aware of the cause but is often quite unconscious of any injury having occurred. Osteopathic lesions can also arise by reflex action because of some disturbance in a distant structure. The Remote Effect of a Lesion and Reflex Lesions Spinal joint lesions can cause pain in almost any part of the body. This understanding is basic to osteopathic philosophy; every structure in the human body is connected either directly or indirectly with the spinal cord, the great central trunk of nerves. Pressure at a vertebral (spinal) joint can result in deficient nerve supply and interfere with the supply of blood to important parts of the body. Whenever a spinal joint becomes restricted in its degree of movement, the surrounding tissues become involved and the flow of blood and lymph circulation is impeded. When this happens nerve structures become affected by poor nutrition and symptoms far away from the cause may arise. Less frequently, problems in remote structures can result in spinal lesions. These are known as "reflex lesions". Osteopathic Examination As in all healing arts, diagnosis is the prerequisite of successful treatment. Patients who have not previously experienced osteopathic treatment are sometimes a little surprised and puzzled by the technique of examination employed. For example a patient may complain of pain down his arm and "tingling" of the fingers, yet the osteopath's attention is focused on the lower part of the neck. This is because a lesion in the cervical spine (neck) is often responsible for pressure on the nerve root causing pain to radiate down the arm. Local treatment of the hand and arm cannot remove the cause of the trouble. Osteopaths also take into account conventional medical test results; such as X-rays, ultrasound scans and MRI images; and will work alongside your GP or medical advisor, especially when radiologists or pathologists reports indicate the need for a particular treatment regime. Who can Benefit from Osteopathy It i’s tempting to say “everyone”. Most sufferers from what are generally known as "physical" conditions find osteopathic treatment of great benefit. Such conditions are far too numerous to attempt to list but include: Slipped disc Arthritis Lumbago Sciatica Neck pain Cervical spondylitis Neuritis Rheumatic aches and pains Tension headaches Certain chronic respiratory conditions Joint injuries Postural defects and many other disabilities Osteopathy - Preventive Medicine The old saying “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” is especially relevant to osteopathy. Because untreated lesions eventually lead to pathological conditions it is best to treat the lesion early before degenerative conditions develop. Restricted mobility can, in most cases be improved or restored by manipulation. Normalisation of mobility restores the circulation, decreases the rate of degeneration and minimises subsequent pathological changes. Regular osteopathic check-ups are highly recommended. Osteopathy not an Unpleasant Experience Osteopathic treatment is not the unpleasant hair-raising experience which some patients anticipate. It is my practice always to precede joint manipulation with extensive soft tissue preparation which relaxes the muscles and allows easy movement of the joints. Most patients find this a pleasant experience and many feel quite sleepy during this stage. Spinal and other joint manipulations which follow are merely movements made passively through the normal range of physiological motion. These movements may produce a characteristic "click" but cause practically no discomfort. Some patients feel a reaction on the day following treatment. This is usually described as a bruised feeling and persists for only a few hours. It is insignificant compared with the relief from pain which follows. Osteopathic techniques are quite different from those of some "manipulative" practitioners who use forceful thrust movements and do not adequately prepare their patients with soft tissue technique before manipulating. Length of Treatment The number of treatments necessary for any specific condition varies widely from patient to patient; for example, some low back conditions clear up after a couple of treatments whilst others take six or more. Some conditions are more or less permanent but much relief and increased movement often results from regular treatment - not necessarily at very frequent intervals. Osteopaths review the patient's progress at every visit and recommend further treatment, if necessary, at such intervals as is appropriate to individual needs. Demands upon practitioner's time is such as to ensure unnecessary treatment is never recommended. How will you feel after Osteopathic treatment People respond in very different ways to treatment. The majority will feel better straight away but if your problem has been there a long time or is particularly severe or if you had a condition that created nerve irritation you may feel worse for a day or two and may need to take anti-inflammatory medication or painkillers. Your body may react to the treatment by changing its chemistry quite suddenly, this is due to metabolic waste products being flushed out by the improved blood circulation – this can feel a bit like a hangover with headaches, nausea and sweating. Rest and plenty of fluid is the best treatment. The effects rarely last more than 24hours. If you are taking medication for diabetes or thyroid be extra vigilant with your medication and monitoring. Emotional changes are very common due to the release of held-in tension. If you have had adjustments made to your spinal joints you should allow the joints to have rest but do not immobilise them. The worst thing you can do after a neck or back adjustment is to sit in a chair reading or watching TV without moving for several hours. That will make you stiffen up. Be a fidget, keep getting up and moving around but don’t do anything strenuous. To get the most benefit from your treatment you should treat yourself gently for a day or two, this means avoiding strenuous activities such as housework, sports, gardening and heavy lifting. Avoid driving if you can, particularly after neck treatment. No hot baths for a day or two but showering is OK Keep well hydrated, sip fluids at regular and frequent intervals. Keep to a simple diet of easily digested foods, avoid alcohol and other stimulants. Try to keep your posture well balanced, do not stand crookedly, or sit with your legs crossed. If you have to drive make sure your seat is properly adjusted and you are well supported. If you are in any doubt whether you should or should not carry out any activity please ask for specific advice www.osteopaths.uk.com cars sale canada evomeoseMaw Posts: 1 Joined: Mon Dec 17, 2007 2:42 pm Location: Bangladesh Website ICQ Top Stockport Osteopaths by CodoNotoUsaft » Thu Jan 10, 2008 5:29 pm Stockport Osteopaths ww.osteopaths.uk.com professional kitchen equipment CodoNotoUsaft Posts: 1 Joined: Thu Jan 10, 2008 5:26 pm Location: Syria Website ICQ Top Back pain prevention by Martin » Thu Jan 10, 2008 7:42 pm Back pain Prevention To avoid back pain, you must reduce excess stresses and strains on your back, and ensure that your back is strong and supple. If you have persistent, recurring bouts of back pain, the advice outlined below may be useful. lose any excess weight -( You can use the Body Mass Index (BMI) to find out if you are a healthy weight for your height. A BMI calculator is available in the 'Mind & body magazine' section of this site), practise the Alexander technique, wear flat shoes with cushioned soles as these can reduce the stress on your back, avoid sudden movements or muscle strain, and try and reduce your stress, anxiety and tension. Posture How you sit, stand, and lie down is important and can have an important effect on your back. The following tips should help you maintain a good posture Standing - you should stand upright, with your head facing forward and your back straight. Balance your weight evenly on both feet and keep your legs straight. Sitting - when sitting, you should be able sit upright with support in the small of your back. Your knees and hips should be level and your feet should be flat on the floor - use a footstool if necessary. Some people find it useful to use a small cushion or rolled-up towel to support the small of the back. Driving - as with sitting, make sure your lower back is properly supported. Correctly positioning your wing mirrors will prevent you from having to twist around. Foot controls should be squarely in front of your feet. If driving long distances, take regular breaks so you can stretch your legs. Sleeping - in the past people with back pain were told to sleep on a firm mattress, but studies have shown that a medium-firm mattress is better. Your mattress should be firm enough to support your body while supporting the weight of your shoulders and buttocks, keeping your spine straight. If your mattress is too soft, place a firm board - ideally 2 cm (three-quarters of an inch) thick - on top of the base of your bed and under the mattress. Support your head with a pillow, but make sure your neck isn't forced up at a steep angle. Exercise Exercise is both an excellent way of preventing back pain and reducing any back pain you might have. (If you have chronic back pain - back pain that has lasted more than 3 months - you should consult your GP before starting any exercise programme.) Exercises like walking or swimming strengthen the muscles that support your back without putting any strain on it, or subjecting it to a sudden jolt. Activities like yoga or pilates can help improve the flexibility and the strength of your back muscles. It is important that you carry out these activities under the guidance of a properly qualified instructor. There are also a number of simple exercises you can do in your own home to help prevent or relieve back pain: Wall Slides - stand with your back against a wall with your feet at shoulder-width apart. Slide down into a crouch so your knees are bent to about 90 degrees. Count to five and then slide back up the wall. Repeat 5 times. Leg Raises - lie flat on your back on the floor. Lift each heel in turn just off the floor while keeping your legs straight. Repeat 5 times. Bottom Lifts - lie flat on your back on the floor. Bend your knees so your feet are flat on the floor. Then lift your bottom in the air by tightening your stomach muscles while keeping your back straight. Repeat 5 times. At first you should do these exercises once or twice a day, and then gradually increase to doing them six times a day, as your back allows. These exercises are also useful for 'warming up' your back. Many people injure their back when doing everyday chores at home or work, such as lifting, gardening or using a vacuum cleaner. 'Warming up' your back before you start these chores can help prevent injury. Lifting and handling One of the biggest causes of back injury, especially at work, is lifting or handling objects incorrectly. Learning and following the correct method for lifting and handling objects can help prevent back pain. Think before you lift - can you manage the lift? Are there any handling aids you can use? Where is the load going? Start in a good position - your feet should be apart with one leg slightly forward to maintain balance. When lifting, let your legs take the strain - bend your back, knees and hips slightly but don't stoop or squat. Tighten your stomach muscles to pull your pelvis in. Don't straighten your legs before lifting as you may strain your back on the way up. Keep the load close to your waist - keep the load as close to your body for as long as possible with the heaviest end nearest to you. Avoid twisting your back or leaning sideways - especially when your back is bent. Your shoulders should be level and facing in the same direction as your hips. Turning by moving your feet is better than lifting and twisting at the same time. Keep your head up - once your have the load secure, look ahead, not down at the load. Know your limits - there is a big difference between what you can lift and what you can safely lift. If in doubt, get help. Push, don't pull - if you have to move a heavy object across the floor, it is better to push it rather than pull it. Distribute the weight evenly - if you are carrying shopping bags or luggage, try to distribute the weight evenly on both sides of your body Preventing back pain in children Back pain in secondary school age children has been linked to heavy schoolbags and backpacks as well as ill-fitting classroom seating. Nearly half of all teenagers in the UK have experienced occasional backache from carrying overloaded bags, poor posture and an unhealthy lifestyle. The best schoolbag for your child is a well designed backpack. This should be worn over both shoulders to balance out the weight. A heavy satchel or shoulder bag can put stress on your child's spine. Encourage your child to exercise regularly, or plan joint activities, such as a walk in the countryside or a trip to a swimming pool. Find out how many calories you can burn doing the stuff. visit www.osteopaths.uk.com for more info Martin Site Admin Posts: 193 Joined: Fri Nov 18, 2005 2:58 pm Top Display posts from previous: All posts 1 day 7 days 2 weeks 1 month 3 months 6 months 1 year Sort by Author Post time Subject Ascending Descending Post a reply 3 posts
			 • Page 1 of 1 Return to Seeking Advice Jump to: Select a forum ------------------ Osteopathic Clinic Announcements and Welcome Seeking Advice Your Stories South Cheshire Local Discussions Local Services Local Events Who is online Users browsing this forum: No registered users and 1 guest Board index The team • Delete all board cookies • All times ar