Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 03:17:26 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "5072bcd359f7cc1:54ade"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 00:01:02 GMT
Connection: close

An inquiry into the uneven distribution of women’s HIV infection in rural Malawi Home Reviewers Associate Editors Editor Publisher Contact Journal Contents SEARCH Current Volume Volumes Articles Special Collections General Information About the Journal Information for Authors Copyright Information Register for e-mail alerts Submit a Paper © 1999 - 2012 Max-Planck-Gesellschaft Copyright & Legal An inquiry into the uneven distribution of women’s HIV infection in rural Malawi References View the references of this article Services Bookmark this page Send this article to a friend Download to Citation Manager RIS format BibTeX format Citations and Similar Articles PubMed Articles by Michelle Poulin Articles by Adamson S. Muula Google Scholar Articles by Michelle Poulin Articles by Adamson S. Muula Article and its Citations Michelle Poulin Adamson S. Muula VOLUME 25 - ARTICLE 28 PAGES 869 - 902 Date Received: 17 May 2011 Date Published: 21 Dec 2011 http://www.demographic-research.org/volumes/vol25/28/ doi:10.4054/DemRes.2011.25.28 Click the icon to view and/or download the PDF file. Once you are in the PDF file, use your browser back button to return to this page. Abstract Ecological comparisons in sub-Saharan Africa show that HIV prevalence is lower where men are generally circumcised than where they are not. Randomized controlled trials have found a 50-60% reduction in HIV acquisition for newly circumcised men. Yet in Malawi, HIV prevalence is highest in several districts in the Southern Region, where men are commonly circumcised. We draw upon a population-based sample of ever-married women to explore this unexpected finding. Our data show that in the southern district of Balaka, women with circumcised spouses have a lower probability of HIV infection compared to those with uncircumcised spouses. However, the strength of this effect is conditioned by specific marital histories: among women with circumcised spouses, those with multiple marriages and an absence of spousal co-residence have a higher probability of HIV infection than do those married once and those who have never lived apart from their spouses. The history of marital turnover and female-headed households among the ethnic groups of Balaka offer insight into the district’s elevated HIV levels. Author's affiliation Michelle Poulin University of North Texas, United States of America Adamson S. Muula University of Malawi, Malawi Keywords AIDS/HIV , inequality , Malawi , male circumcision , marriage , migration , mortality , population , Sub-Saharan Africa Word count (Main text) 7060 Other articles by the same author/authors (in Demographic Research ) [22-11] Reporting on first sexual experience: The importance of interviewer-respondent interaction Most recent similar articles in Demographic Research [24-27] HIV/AIDS and time allocation in rural Malawi (Malawi, AIDS/HIV) [23-35] Income, health, and well-being in rural Malawi (Malawi, AIDS/HIV) [22-25] Men’s and women’s migration in coastal Ghana: An event history analysis (Sub-Saharan Africa, migration) [22-11] Reporting on first sexual experience: The importance of interviewer-respondent interaction (Malawi, AIDS/HIV) [22-7] Marriage, childbearing, and migration in Kyrgyzstan: Exploring inter