
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 09:41:23 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Risks of Obesity and How Weight Loss Surgery can Help Weight Loss Weight Loss Surgery Cholesterol More Reviews Green Tea Hoodia Goji Berry Six Pack Abs Weight Loss Obesity Causes Risks of Obesity Fitness and Overweight Natural Alternatives to Surgery Non-Surgical Options for Weight Loss Restrictive Weight Loss Surgery Short Term Risks of Surgery Surgical Weight Loss Options Role of Exercise in Weight Loss Weight Management Myths and Weight Loss Frequently Asked Questions Acupuncture for Weight Loss Fast Weight Loss not Advisable Fast Weight Loss Diet Fitness and Weight Loss Green Tea for Weight Loss Healthy Weight Loss Herbal Weight Loss Benefits Hoodia Weight Loss Not Approved Jenny Craig Weight Loss Plan Side Effects of Meridia Weight Loss Natural Weight Loss Quick Weight Loss may Harmful Rapid Weight Loss Effectiveness Weight Loss Serious Issue Weight Loss and Hypnosis Weight Loss Program Weight Loss System By Anne Weight Loss Patch Guide to Hoodia Products High Carb and High Protein Diet Plan Top 10 Approaches Followed by Weight Loss Herbs 10 Best Ways to Measure the Signs of Weight Loss Weight Loss (Home) > Weight Loss > Risks of Obesity Risks of Obesity and How Weight Loss Surgery can Help? Obesity poses great danger to a person’s life. It has considered as second most leading cause of death after smoking. Obesity takes about 300,000 lives every year and this number can rise in the following years. An obese person is more prone to develop several health risks, which directly relates to obesity. Earlier, obesity has not considered as a medical health condition, but now both patient’s as well as health care professionals starts recognizing obesity as any other clinical health problems. People often try to loose weight in order to look good and becoming free from health problems as a cause of obesity. Weight loss is one of the drastic but successful weight loss options for loosing extra body weight. Weight loss surgery is gaining popularity as people see the positive changes on those individuals who has earlier undergone for weight loss surgery. Obesity poses serious health risks and loosing extra body fat often minimizes the health problems that may occur due to extra body fat. An individual, who is obese, also suffers with depression and mental sickness, because of always thinking about a ‘perfect body’ and keep comparing the self with other non-obese individuals around. Obesity causes several health risks Hypertension is one of the common problems with that many obese individuals suffer. Hypertension is also referred as high blood pressure. The symptoms much frequently occur in those individuals who are obese and have type-2 diabetes. Hypertension also poses other health risks e.g. heart disease, kidney problems strokes etc. Hypertension affects one in every four American. It can be treated using medications. Sleep apnea is a clinical condition in which an obese person stops breathing instantly while sleeping. In such conditions, a person cannot sleep properly, and hence feels exhausted and out of energy. Respiratory problems often affect overweight individuals An overweight person feels difficulty in walking and doing daily activities without being ‘winded’ or out of breath. Type 2 diabetes is one of the complications with which most overweight individuals suffer. The symptoms can minimize and sometimes completely eradicate by managing ideal body weight. Type-2 diabetes causes, when either body starts ignoring insulin or did not produce enough insulin for body use. Diabetes if not treated can cause other health problems. Kidney problems, heart problems, neurological complications and eye vision deficiency are some common problems with that many diabetic patients suffer. Arthritis, problems of other joints, stroke risks, heart problems and cancerous diseases also occurs as a cause of obesity Clinical problems that arise as obesity complications cost a person both health as well as money. Therefore, it becomes ultimately necessary for a suffering person to loose extra body weight. Health care experts suggest several methods like dieting, exercise, and behavioral therapy etc for weight lose. An overweight individual may require following a combination of these methods. However, if these methods do not work after following hard then weight loss surgery is considerable as lost resort for loosing weight. If this is the case with you, always keep in mind that weight loss surgery will not work alone; however, you should require to follow dietary and other surgical guidelines to assist the weight loss surgery in managing weight. Weight loss surgery does not shed weight only but also helps in getting rid of other health risks that associates with obesity. It is important for overweight individuals who are considering for weight loss surgery to evaluate the physical problems they are facing before surgery, so that later they may access, if either the problems are lessening post surgery or not. However, weight loss surgery is not always good. Sicknesses like liver cirrhosis, chronic pancreatitis, ulcers or Crohn’s disease may affect a person as side effects of weight loss surgery. Therefore, a person considering for weight loss surgery will discuss about these side effects and controlling methods with doctor before surgery. Famous Weight Loss Products Fat Loss 4 Idiots Burn the Fat Feed the Muscle The Truth About Six Pack Abs Hoodia Gordonii Plus Acai Berry Resources: Diseases and Conditions Fitness Health Weight Loss Weight Loss Weight Loss Surgery Cholesterol More Reviews Green Tea Hoodia Goji Berry Six Pack Abs Copyright © MBONFA - Weight Loss Help | SITEMAP | Resources About Us | Contact Us 