Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Valeriana officinalis.Valerian and Medical Attributes.Valerian Root Extract.Valerian Root Extract INCI Name Valeriana Officinalis Extract EINECS ELINCS No.232-501-7 CAS 8057-49-6 Valerienic acid 109-52-4.MDidea-Extracts Professional.S029. About Us Spectrum Support FAQ Tracking Categories Standard Herbal Extracts S021.Red Clover Extract. S022.Rhodiola Rosea Extract. S023.Schizandra Berry Extract. S024.Siberian Ginseng Extract. S025.Soy Bean Extract. S026.St. John's Wort Extract. S027.Tribulus terrestris Extract. S028.Loquat Leaf extract.Glossy privet leaf Extract. S029.Valerian Root Extract. S030.Wild Yam Extract. Next 10 Product Newly Developed Extracts Proper Special Extracts Pure Phytochemicals Aromatic Herbal Teas Herbal Blend Plus Valeriana officinalis.Valerian and Medical Attributes.Valerian Root Extract. Contents Botanical Description of Valerian.Valeriana officinalis. Narrative History and Ancient Register of Valerian.Valeriana officinalis. Medical Attributes of Valerian.Valeriana officinalis. Medical Parts,Key actions and key components of Valerian.Valeriana officinalis. Valerian:Pharmacology,Mechanisms of Action Traditional Uses of Valerian.Valeriana officinalis. Cautions of Valerian.Valeriana officinalis. Dosage of Valerian:How much to take? Safety and Acute toxicity:Valerienic acid Valerian and Dreams Valerian,Nardostachys and Patrinia Research update of Valerian Root. Photo Gallery of Valeriana officinalis. Applications and Properties: Applications: Insomnia,Sedative Action. Stengthen the heart. Wound Healing Prompter. Expectorant. Treat Nervous spasms and tremors. Stress-related disorders. Anxiety and insomnia. Relaxant. High blood pressure. Antispasmodic and calming effects. Properties: Valerian root is used primarily as a mild sedative to calm restlessness and anxiety and overcome mild insomnia. At least two double-blind studies have demonstrated that valerian extract can significantly reduce the amount of time it takes people to fall asleep without changing the normal stages of sleep. Dosage:300-500 mg of valerian root herbal extract one hour before bedtime for insomnia. Safety and Toxicity: Acute toxicity (LD50):Valerienic acid.LD50:Lethal dose,50 percent kill.Oral.Rodent-mouse.600mg/kg.Details of toxic effects not reported other than lethal dose value. Reference: Valeriana officinalis.Valerian and Medical Attributes.Valerian Root Extract. This article written and edited via herbalist of MDidea Extracts Professional . They run a range of online descriptions about this herb,including general information related and summarized updating discoveries from findings of professional scientisits this field related.Describe style aimed to form a useful detecting literature space where the intertwined threshold and related questions raise out and visualize themselves. ♣ last edit date:08th,Oct.2010. Available Product article related product: Name:Valerian Root Extract Serie No:S-029. Specifications:4:1 TLC,Valerienic acid 0.3%0.4%0.6%0.8%HPLC. INCI Name:VALERIANA OFFICINALIS EXTRACT EINECS/ELINCS No.:232-501-7 CAS:8057-49-6.Valerienic acid.109-52-4. Chem/IUPAC Name:Valeriana Officinalis Extract is an extract of the rhizome and roots of the valerian,Valeriana officinalis,Valerianaceae See Details Supplying Conditions See Specifications in Details Correlative Products Extract Extract Extract See Correlative Products Page Subscribe Keep in Touch! Spectrum Products in Series! Standardized Herbal Extracts Newly Developed Extracts Proper Special Extracts Pure Phytochemicals Aromatic Herbal Teas Herbal Blend Plus FAQ Frequently Asked Questions! Customer Service Ordering Support PO related Policies Order Tracking After Sale Service Privacy Policy Of Herbs Articles and Literatures! Online Glossary Matrix Phytochemistry Legend of Herbs Reenchantment