X-Cacheable: YES
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 10:23:47 GMT
X-Varnish: 444976709
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
X-Served-By: tmgweb2
X-Cache: MISS

How to stub out addiction: Success in quitting smoking - Healthy Living - Lifestyle - JournalLive 9°C - 13 kph wind Updated 3:55am 18 November 2011: Get involved RSS news for you Send your stories and pictures Home News Breaking News Today's News Business News UK & World News Politics News Environment Education Campaigns & Awards Corrections & Clarifications Live Events Great North Run The Journal Online News Videos & Pictures Twitter Contact & Subscribe NUFC NUFC News NUFC Match Reports NUFC Videos & Pictures Blogs Sir Bobby Robson NUFC Survey Useful Info SAFC Sunderland News SAFC Match Reports SAFC Videos & Pictures SAFC Useful Info Sport Football Boxing Rugby Cricket Golf Angling Basketball Ice Hockey Horse Racing Other Sports Sport Videos & Pictures Twitter Videos & Pics Politics Beamish News Royal Wedding NUFC SAFC Sport Northumberland Taste Business Culture Lifestyle Journal Flickr Group Buy A Photo Your Videos & Pics Blogs Taste Food News & Features Recipes Restaurant Reviews Food Videos & Pictures Shop For Taste Taste Columnists In Season Business homemaker Culture The Journal Culture Club Latest News Culture Blogs Film Reviews Theatre Music Arts Book Reviews TV Listings Culture Videos & Pictures Twitter Culture Magazine Culture Directory Culture Awards Read Regional Lifestyle Family Great North Fitness Revolution Features Now and then Fashion Beauty Lifestyle Videos & Pictures Travel Holiday Park Directory Health & Fitness Healthy Living Weddings Horoscopes Dating Love & Romance Northumberland Allendale Alnwick Amble Ashington Bedlington Bellingham, Kielder & North Tyne Berwick Blyth Corbridge, Riding Mill & Stocksfield Cramlington Haltwhistle & South Tyne Hexham Morpeth Newbiggin-by-the-Sea Ponteland Classifieds Local Businesses Family Notices Homes Motors easyAds123 Public Notices Jobs Shop Book an Ad Sitemap Authors Topics Article Archive Video & Photos Archive RSS Feeds Hot Topics » Chris Chapman Kielder Marathon Journal Corrections Great North Fitness Revolution Find us on Facebook All Topics... Home Lifestyle Healthy Living Holiday Park Directory Find great deals across the North East and Cumbria How to stub out addiction: Success in quitting smoking by Vicky Robson , The Journal Nov 10 2011 All children really want for Christmas is for their parents to quit smoking. VICKY ROBSON reports on some success stories THE ‘EASYWAY’ After several failed attempts to quit smoking with nicotine patches and willpower, business development manager Dawn Dunn decided to do it the ‘easyway’. Inspired by a friend’s success, Dawn took part in an Allen Carr Easyway clinic just over a year ago and hasn’t smoked since. Mum-of-two Dawn, 49, of North Tyneside, said: “The fact I needed to have those key cigarettes at certain points in the day, like in the car on my way to and from work, used to annoy me. “I tried nicotine patches, but when I took them off I still wanted to smoke just as much. “I had got to the stage in my life where I just thought ‘this is pointless, it’s ruining my health and costing a fortune and has become socially unacceptable’. “The Allen Carr clinic all made sense and it was absolutely effortless. When I left the clinic, I wasn’t 100% convinced that I would never smoke again, but I haven’t. “All I know is that it works. I don’t know how it works, but it does. Taking the drug-free approach, Allen Carr clinics last for up to five hours and are conducted by a trained therapist, who is often an ex-smoker. Therapists use a combination of psychology and hypnotherapy in a bid to change the way the smoker thinks about cigarettes. The idea is to remove the smoker’s belief that smoking provides any sort of genuine pleasure and also to remove the feeling of sacrifice and deprivation, ultimately to rid the smoker of the fear of stopping. Director of Allen Carr’s Easyway North East, Mark Keen, explains: “The fact they don’t want to be a smoker on the one hand, but feel like they want to have a cigarette on the other, causes confusion which we call the nicotine maze. “The smoker is in a place they don’t want to be, but they don’t know how to get out of it, so the Allen Carr method is like a road map out.” Dawn adds: “My kids were really happy when I quit because they had always hated it. “I think there also comes a time in your life when it just feels right to give it up, and Allen Carr’s Easyway is one of the most painless ways to do it.” SURVEY FINDINGS 50% of kids with a parent who smokes say their one wish for Christmas is for their mum or dad to give up smoking. 71% of children with a smoking parent worry about the risk of their parent dying. A further 61% worry about the risk of heart disease. 95% of children surveyed thought smoking was either stupid (52%) or dangerous (43%). 89% of children surveyed wished nobody in the world smoked, 91% say they have never tried a cigarette, and of those 97% say they never will. 95% wouldn’t want their own children smoking when they grow up. 30% admitted to hide their parents’ cigarettes to help them quit. previous 1 2 Related Tags cigarettes , great north fitness revolution , smoking (What's this) Related Stories Runner Mark Allison reveals plans to run across Australia Nov 11 2011 The whey to go for a healthy lifestyle Nov 10 2011 Expert advice: Dr George Rae Nov 10 2011 South Shields school putting a focus on fitness Nov 3 2011 Health MOT: Azeem Arshad, manager of Baguette Express in Newcastle Nov 3 2011 Name of the game is good health Nov 3 2011 Expert advice: Chris Cook, former Olympic swimmer Nov 3 2011 Share Related Stories Runner Mark Allison reveals plans to run across Australia Nov 11 2011 The whey to go for a healthy lifestyle Nov 10 2011 Expert advice: Dr George Rae Nov 10 2011 South Shields school putting a focus on fitness Nov 3 2011 Health MOT: Azeem Arshad, manager of Baguette Express in Newcastle Nov 3 2011 Site Web Journallive Classifieds Find a new job Find a car Find a dream date Family notices Book an Ad Find local business Find a home easyAds123 Remembrance LocalMole.co.uk Business Finder Please enter a Business and Location. Pubs in Newcastle Plumbers in Newcastle Restaurants in Newcastle Builders in Newcastle Hotels in Newcastle Schools in Newcastle More Newcastle Businesses » Accountants in Newcastle Architects in Newcastle Beauty Salons in Newcastle Business Centres in Newcastle Business Services in Newcastle Cafes in Newcastle Caravan Dealers in Newcastle Car Dealers in Newcastle Car Hire in Newcastle Care Homes in Newcastle Cleaners in Newcastle Computer Repair in Newcastle Debt Advice in Newcastle Dentists in Newcastle Doctors in Newcastle Driving Schools in Newcastle Electricians in Newcastle Estate Agents in Newcastle Florists in Newcastle Funeral Directors in Newcastle Garden Centres in Newcastle Hairdressers in Newcastle Insurance Services in Newcastle Lawyers in Newcastle Locksmiths in Newcastle Marketing Companies in Newcastle Mobile Phones in Newcastle Museums in Newcastle Nursery Schools in Newcastle Office Rental in Newcastle Pet Services in Newcastle Plasterers in Newcastle Solicitors in Newcastle Takeaways in Newcastle Taxis in Newcastle Wedding Services in Newcastle List your business for free » Hot Topics » Chris Chapman Kielder Marathon Journal Corrections Great North Fitness Revolution Find us on Facebook All Topics... JournalLive - The Journal newsapaper online. Local North East news and sport covering Newcastle, Tyne and Wear, Northumberland, County Durham. Latest NUFC and SAFC news. For our complaints procedure, click here . About us JournalLive - The Journal newsapaper online. Local North East news, Northumberland news and sport covering Newcastle, Tyne and Wear, Northumberland, County Durham. Latest NUFC news and SAFC news. Login or Register Popular sections Homepage News Todays news Newcastle Utd FC NUFC news NUFC match reports Sunderland AFC SAFC news SAFC match reports Sport Blogs Taste Business Northumberland homemaker Culture Lifestyle Your Place Videos & Pics Advertisement Feature Special Features Useful links Site Map Accessibility Tags Find us on Twitter Weather Send Your Stories Dating Media Information Site Contact & Subscribe Advertise with us Community Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Complaints Journalist Directory The Journal Newspaper Online Travel Offers Online Shopping Buy a Photo The Journal on your mobile Remembrances Our site network nebusiness.co.uk jobsnortheast.co.uk motorsnortheast.co.uk Motors Showroom homemaker.co.uk easyAds123 Culture Club ChronicleLive Sunday Sun GazetteLive LocalMole - Local Directory The Geek Files Property Search Newcastle Mirror Reader Offers ncjMedia Information Copyright and Trade Mark Notice © 2011 owned by or licensed to ncjMedia Limited. The Journal™ is a trade mark of ncjMedia Limited. Please read our Terms 