
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 00:23:29 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.alternativedr.com/altdr/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: bp-message=deleted; expires=Sat, 12-Feb-2011 00:23:29 GMT; path=/altdr/
Set-Cookie: bp-message-type=deleted; expires=Sat, 12-Feb-2011 00:23:29 GMT; path=/altdr/
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Herbal Medicine | Alternative Dr Alternative Medicine A-Z Acupuncture Aromatherapy Ayurvedic Medicine Chinese Medicine Chiropractic Featured Herbal Medicine Homeopathy Massage Therapy Mind Body Medicine Naturopathy Yoga Conditions A-Z Conditions A-C Conditions: A > Acne Alzheimer's Disease Anorexia Nervosa Asthma Conditions: B > Bone Infection Bronchitis Conditions: C > Cancer – Breast Cancer Cancer – Prostate Cancer Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Cystic Fibrosis Conditions D-F Conditions: D > Dementia Depression Diabetes Conditions: E > Eczema Endocarditis Conditions: F > Fibromyalgia Food Allergies Conditions G-I Conditions: G > Gastritis Glaucoma Conditions: H > Heart Attack High Cholesterol HIV and AIDS Conditions: I > Insomnia Irritable Bowel Syndrome Conditions J-L Conditions: K > Kidney Stones Conditions: L > Leukemia Lupus Conditions M-O Conditions: M > Menopause Multiple Sclerosis Conditions: N > Nail Disorders Conditions: O > Obesity Osteoporosis Conditions P-R Conditions: P > Parkinson's Disease Conditions: R > Rheumatoid Arthritis Conditions S-U Conditions: S > Stress Disorder Conditions: T > Tendinitis Conditions: U > Ulcerative Colitis Conditions V-Z Conditions: V > Varicose Veins Conditions: W > Whooping Cough Conditions: Y > Yeast Infection Dr. May's Blog Wellness Men's Health Nutrition Peak Performance Pet Wellness Care Physical Fitness Sexual Health Vitamins – Supplements Wellness News Women's Health Wellness Nutrition Vitamins – Supplements Peak Performance Physical Fitness Men's Health Sexual Health Women's Health Wellness News Pet Wellness Care Alternative Medicine A-Z Acupuncture Massage Therapy Homeopathy Featured Chinese Medicine Herbal Medicine Yoga Aromatherapy Ayurvedic Medicine Naturopathy Mind Body Medicine Chiropractic Conditions A-Z Conditions A-C Conditions: A > Acne Alzheimer's Disease Asthma Anorexia Nervosa Conditions: B > Bone Infection Bronchitis Conditions: C > Cancer – Prostate Cancer Cancer – Breast Cancer Cystic Fibrosis Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Conditions D-F Conditions: D > Depression Diabetes Dementia Conditions: E > Eczema Endocarditis Conditions: F > Fibromyalgia Food Allergies Conditions G-I Conditions: G > Gastritis Glaucoma Conditions: H > High Cholesterol Heart Attack HIV and AIDS Conditions: I > Insomnia Irritable Bowel Syndrome Conditions J-L Conditions: K > Kidney Stones Conditions: L > Leukemia Lupus Conditions M-O Conditions: M > Multiple Sclerosis Menopause Conditions: N > Nail Disorders Conditions: O > Osteoporosis Obesity Conditions P-R Conditions: P > Parkinson's Disease Conditions: R > Rheumatoid Arthritis Conditions S-U Conditions: S > Stress Disorder Conditions: T > Tendinitis Conditions: U > Ulcerative Colitis Conditions V-Z Conditions: V > Varicose Veins Conditions: W > Whooping Cough Conditions: Y > Yeast Infection Dr. May's Blog Home Activity Members Groups Forums About Join our Alternative Medicine Community! February 12, 2012, 12:23 am by admin Goldenseal Herb Benefits & Uses December 17, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Goldenseal Herb Goldenseal was originally introduced to early American settlers by Native American tribes, who used it as a yellow dye, as well as a wash for skin diseases, sore eyes, and various forms of “catarrh” (colds and flu, for example). Goldenseal may help the symptoms of sore mouth, sore throat, canker sores, gingivitis (infected gums); stomachache, diarrhea, indigestion, constipation, and ulcers; colds and flu; vaginal irritation; earaches; mild conjunctivitis (“pink eye”) or other eye irritations. (See your health care provider if eye irritation continues for more than a few days, or if it is severe.) Goldenseal may also be useful for disinfecting cuts, scrapes, boils, and acne; and for lowering high blood sugar levels (hyperglycemia), which may lead to diabetes. Goldenseal Plant Description Goldenseal is a small plant with a single hairy stem. Goldenseal  has two five-lobed, jagged leaves, small flowers, and raspberry-like fruit. The bitter-tasting rhizome, or root, is a bright yellow-brown in color, twisted, and wrinkled. Goldenseal can be found growing wild in rich, shady soil in the northern U.S., but is now grown mostly on farms. What’s Goldenseal Made Of? Goldenseal contains a compound called berberine that kills many of the bacteria that cause diarrhea. Berberine has also been shown to kill a wide range of other types of germs, such as those that cause yeast infections, as well as various parasites such as tapeworms and giardia. Berberine may also activate your white blood cells, making them more effective at fighting infection. For these reasons, it is used as an all-around disinfectant, both externally and internally. Goldenseal also stimulates the production of bile, a fluid produced by your liver that helps digest fats. Goldenseal is used as a healing tonic for the digestive tract, and is considered helpful for easing chronic constipation, and hemorrhoids. Available Forms of Goldenseal Goldenseal is available as tablets (various concentrations), powdered root in capsules (various concentrations), alcoholic tinctures, and low-alcohol extracts. How to Take Goldenseal -	Goldenseal in capsules or tablets: 500 to 2,000 mg up to three times a day. -	Goldenseal extract (more concentrated): 0.03 to 0.12 g, up to three times a day. -	For disinfecting cuts, scrapes, boils, and acne, place goldenseal extract or tincture on a clean cloth, and press the cloth gently on the affected area. -	For earaches, mix with olive oil and use as eardrops. -	For sore throat, gums, or mouth, make a mouthwash as follows: In 1 cup of warm water, mix 1/4 tsp. salt and 1/2 tsp., or the contents of 1 capsule, of goldenseal powder. (It will not dissolve completely.) Rinse and spit out. -	For cases of vaginal irritation, make a goldenseal douche as follows: Mix 1/4 tsp. salt and 1/2 tsp., or the contents of 1 capsule, of goldenseal powder in 1 cup of warm water. Let the mixture settle, and strain out any suspended particles before using it. (Keep the mixture as clean as you can.) Over-douching can make you more susceptible to certain kinds of vaginal infections. See your health care provider if your symptoms do not improve after a few days. -	An eyewash made from goldenseal is good for eye infections and irritations. Use 1 cup of sterile water with 1/4 tsp. salt and 1/2 tsp. goldenseal (or the contents of one capsule), and strain out all particles. Discard if the solution becomes cloudy, which indicates bacterial growth. Goldenseal Precautions -	Do not use goldenseal if you are pregnant or have high blood pressure. -	If used for long periods of time, goldenseal can irritate the skin, mouth, throat, and vagina. It can also reduce the number of good bacteria in your digestive system, which can cause nausea and diarrhea. -	Large doses may also interfere with your body’s ability to absorb B vitamins. Possible Interactions with Golden Seal There have been reports of goldenseal reducing the effectiveness of antibiotics, specifically tetracycline and tetracycline-derivatives like doxycycline. If you are currently taking any of these antibiotics, you should consult your healthcare provider. Supporting Research on Goldenseal Balch J, Balch P. Prescription for Nutritional Healing: A-to-Z Guide to Drug-Free Remedies Using Vitamins, Minerals, Herbs, & Food Supplements. New York, NY: Avery Publishing Group; 1990. Duke JA. Handbook of Phytochemical Constituents of GRAS Herbs and Other Economic Plants. Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1992. Foster S. Goldenseal. American Botanical Council: Botanical Series No. 309. Genest K, Hughes DW. Natural products in Canadian pharmaceuticals, Hydrastis canadensis. Can J Pharm Sci. 1969;4. Kaneda Y, Tanaka T, Saw T. Effects of berberine, a plant alkaloid, on the growth of anaerobic protozoa in axenic culture. Tokai J Exp Clin Med. 1990;15:417–423. Khin-Muang-U, Myo-Khin, Nyunt-Nyunt-Wai, et al. Clinical trial of berberine in acute watery diarrhea. Br Med J 1985; 291:1601-5. Mills SY. Dictionary of Modern Herbalism: A Comprehensive Guide to Practical Herbal Therapy. Rochester, Vt: Healing Arts Press; 1988. Nishino H, et al. Berberine sulfate inhibits tumor-promoting activity of teleocidin in two-stage carcinogenesis on mouse skin. Oncology. 1986;43:131–134. Rabbani GH, Butler T, Knight J, et al. Randomized controlled trial of berberine sulfate therapy for diarrhea due to enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli and Vibrio cholerae. J Infect Dis 1987; 155:979-84. Shideman FE. A review of the pharmacology and therapeutics of Hydrastis and its alkaloids, hydrastine, berberine and canadine. Comm on Nat Formulary Bull. 1950;18:3–19. Sun D, Courtney HS, Beachey EH. Berberine sulfate blocks adherence of Streptococcus pyogenes to epithelial cells, fibronectin, and hexadecane. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1988;32:1370–1374. Swanston-Flatt SK, et al. Evaluation of traditional plant treatments for diabetes: studies in streptozotocin diabetic mice. Acta Diabetol Lat. 1989;26:51–55. Zhu B, Ahrens FA. Effect of berberine on intestinal secretion mediated by Escherichia coli heat-stable enterotoxin in jejunum of pigs. Am J Vet Res. 1982; 43:1594–1598. Copyright ©  Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Herbal Medicine No Comments » by admin Ginkgo Biloba November 30, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Ginkgo Biloba More than 400 published studies have been done on Ginkgo Biloba extract (GBE), making it one of the best researched of all herbal medicines. In Germany and France it is the most frequently prescribed herbal medicine and is in the top five of all prescriptions written in those countries. Ginkgo Biloba is a powerful aid to circulatory problems, particularly a lack of blood to the brain, which causes memory loss, vertigo, tinnitus, disorientation, headaches, and depression, especially in the elderly. It has strong antioxidant properties as well, protecting both the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system from damage and the effects of aging. Ginkgo Biloba improves blood circulation by strengthening blood vessels and reducing the stickiness of blood platelets, which can help blood circulate more easily, even when atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) is present. This not only helps improve blood flow to the brain, but it also increases blood flow to the limbs and can help prevent or treat heart disease and stroke. Ginkgo Biloba is also used effectively to help prevent mental deterioration for those approaching old age. In a few small studies, Ginkgo Biloba seemed to slow and even stop the progress of Alzheimer’s disease, particularly in the early stages. Recent studies have also shown that Ginkgo Biloba may reduce impotence caused by impaired blood flow. It also may help reduce certain premenstrual symptoms, specifically fluid retention. Ginkgo Biloba Plant Description Ginkgo biloba is the oldest living tree species. It is amazingly adaptable, surviving even the Ice Age and the atomic bomb that destroyed Hiroshima. A single tree can live as long as 1,000 years and grow to a height of 120 feet. It has short branches with fan-shaped leaves and produces inedible fruit that has a strong odor. The fruit contains an edible inner seed. Although Chinese herbal medicine has used both the ginkgo leaf and seed for centuries, modern research has focused on the standardized Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE), which is produced from the leaves. This extract is highly concentrated and much more effective than any other product made from the leaves. What’s Ginkgo Biloba Made Of? Ginkgo biloba is made up of ginkgo flavone glycosides, several terpene molecules unique to ginkgo (ginkgolides and bilobalide), and organic acids. The special terpene molecules are thought to give Ginkgo biloba its ability to fight many of the effects of aging. This includes improving blood circulation, reducing inflammation, and protecting brain cells from damage caused by lack of oxygen. Available Forms of Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo biloba extract standardized to contain 24 percent ginkgo flavone glycosides (50:1 extract) and 6 percent terpene lactones. (There are several different brands of GBE available in the U.S.) Capsules and tincture are also available. How to Take Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo Biloba repairs much of the damage that aging inflicts, particularly on the circulatory and nervous systems. It can also strengthen blood vessels. As a result, Ginkgo Biloba is most often recommended for older people suffering from signs of dementia, such as disorientation, memory loss, headaches, depression, vertigo, and tinnitus. Your health care provider will determine that these conditions are related to lack of blood flow to the brain and not another condition before recommending Ginkgo Biloba. Patients suffering from leg cramps resulting from poor circulation have also seen good results with Ginkgo Biloba. Because GBE strengthens and protects the circulatory and nervous systems, it can be also taken to help prevent heart disease, stroke, and the onset of dementia. Initial results often take four to six weeks, but should continue to accumulate beyond that period. You may not see any dramatic changes for six months. -	Take 120 mg daily in two or three divided doses of 50:1 extract standardized to 24 percent flavone glycosides. If you have more serious dementia or Alzheimer’s disease, you may need to work up to 240 mg daily in two or three divided doses. -	Capsules of dried herb with 10 mg standardized extract (1 to 3 capsules three times a day) -	Tincture (1:5): 2 to 4 ml three times a day -	Fluid extract (1:1): 1 to 3 ml three times a day Precautions and Side Effects of Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo Biloba is very safe and side effects are rare. In a few cases, gastrointestinal upset, headaches, and dizziness were reported. Ginkgo Biloba does not appear to alter heart rate and blood pressure or to change cholesterol and triglyercide levels. Because it decreases platelet aggregation (stickiness), there is some concern that ginkgo may increase risk of intracranial (brain) hemorrhage. Use with caution in conjunction with other blood-thinning agents (for example, Coumadin). Do not handle or ingest the fruit of Ginkgo biloba. The German Commission E reports that a hypersensitivity to Ginkgo biloba preparations is the only known reason not to take GBE. If you are pregnant, you should exercise caution since there is a lack of data concerning showing Ginkgo Biloba’s effect during pregnancy. Do not give Ginkgo Biloba to infants or children. Possible Interactions with Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo has blood-thinning properties and, therefore, should not be used if you are taking anticoagulant (blood-thinning) medications, like aspirin or warfarin. Supporting Research on Ginkgo Biloba Bauer U. Six-month double-blind randomized clinical trial of Ginkgo biloba extract versus placebo in two parallel groups of patients suffering from peripheral arterial insufficiency. Arzneimittelforschung. 1984;34:716–720. Blumenthal M, ed. The Complete German Commission E Monographs: Therapeutic Guide to Herbal Medicines. Boston, Mass: Integrative Medicine Communications; 1998. Brinker F. Herb Contraindications and Drug Interactions. 2nd ed. Sandy, Ore: Eclectic Medical; 1998:76-77. Brown D. Herbal Prescriptions for Better Health. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1996. Carper J. Miracle Cures. New York, NY: HarperCollins, 1997. Castelli D, Colin L, Camel E, et al. Pretreatment of skin with a Ginkgo biloba extract/sodium carboxymethyl-b-1,3-glucan formulation appears to inhibit the elicitation of allergic contact dermatitis in man. Contact Dermatitis. 1998;38(3):123–126. Chung KF, McCusker M, Page CP, et al. Effect of a ginkgoloide mixture (BN52063) in antagonizing skin and platelet responses to platelet-activating factor in man. Lancet. 1987;1(1):248–250. Cupp MJ. Herbal remedies: adverse effects and drug interactions. Am Fam Physician. 1999;59(5):1239–1244. DeSmet PAGM, Keller K, Hänsel R, Chandler RF, eds. Adverse Effects of Herbal Drugs. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag; 1997. Kinghorn, A., Ed. Human Medicinal Agents from Plants. Washington, DC: American Chemical Society, 1993. Le Bars PL, Katz MM, Berman N, Itil TM, Freedman AM, Schatzberg AF. A placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized trial of an extract of Ginkgo biloba for dementia. JAMA. 1997;278:1327–1332. Mashour NH, Lin GI, Frishman WH. Herbal medicine for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Arch Intern Med. 1998;158(9):2225–2234. McGuffin M, Hobbs C, Upton R, et al, eds. Botanical Safety Handbook. Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1997. Miller LC. Herbal medicinals: selected clinical considerations focusing on known or potential drug-herb interactions. Arch Intern Med. 1998;158(9):2200–2211. Murray M. The Healing Power of Herbs: The Enlightened Person’s Guide to the Wonders of Medicinal Plants. 2nd ed. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1995. Newall C, et al. Herbal Medicines: A Guide for Health-care Professionals. London, England: Pharmaceutical Press; 1996. Peters H, Kieser M, Holscher U. Demonstration of the efficacy of Ginkgo biloba special extract Egb 761 on intermittent claudication a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. Vasa. 1998;27:105–110. Ramassamy C, Christen Y, Clostre F, et al. The Ginkgo biloba extract, EGB761, increases synaptosomal uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine in-vitro and ex-vivo studies. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1992;44:943–945. Ramassamy C, Clostre F, Christen Y, et al. Prevention by Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE761) of the dopaminergic neurotoxicity of MPTP. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1990; 42:785–789. Rosenblatt M, Mindel J. Spontaneous hyphema associated with ingestion of Ginkgo biloba extract. N Engl J Med. 1997;336:1108. Rowin J, Lewis SL. Spontaneous bilateral subdural hematomas associated with chronic ginkgo. Neurol. 1996;46:1775–1776. Schulz V, Hänsel R, Tyler VE. Rational Phytotherapy: A Physicians’ Guide to Herbal Medicine. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag; 1998. Sikora R, Sohn M, Deutz F-J, et al. Ginkgo biloba extract in the therapy of erectile dysfunction. J Urol. 1989;141:188A. Vorberg G. Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE): a long-term study of chronic cerebral insufficiency in geriatric patients. Clin Trials. 1985;22(2):149–157. al-Zuhair H, Abd el-Fattah A, el-Sayed MI. The effect of meclofenoxate with Ginkgo biloba extract or zinc on lipid peroxide, some free radical scavengers, and the cardiovascular system of aged rats. Pharmacol Res. 1998;38(1):65–72. Copyright © Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Ginkgo Biloba , Herbal Medicine No Comments » by admin Cayenne Pepper Health Benefits November 4, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Cayenne Pepper - Health Benefits Cayenne, also known as red pepper, was first introduced to the world outside the Americas by the Caribbean Indians, who gave it to Columbus. Since then its popularity has spread, and it has become an important spice, particularly in Cajun and Creole cooking, and in the cuisines of southeast Asia, China, southern Italy, and Mexico. Capsaicin is the ingredient in cayenne that makes it hot. Even though cayenne tastes hot, capsaicin actually helps lower body temperature, which is one of the reasons that people in hot climates like to eat so much of it. Capsaicin also contributes to many of cayenne’s other medicinal properties to stimulate the cardiovascular system, relieve pain on the surface of the skin or in joints, improve digestion, act as an expectorant, and fight bacteria. Cayenne lowers levels of cholesterol in the blood, which helps lower blood pressure. It also prevents blood in your arteries from clotting. These properties help prevent heart disease, such as atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries). Even though cayenne can sting your tongue, it is actually a powerful pain reliever. It initially stimulates, but then decreases the intensity of pain signals in the body. This makes it particularly effective for people with chronic pain, since it takes several days to see significant results. Those who suffer from shingles, pain from diabetes, postmastectomy pain, and other postsurgical pain, may especially benefit from several different cayenne or capsaicin creams that are available. The capsaicin in cayenne not only relieves the pain of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, but it also helps reduce the swelling from these conditions when used as a rub. Cayenne improves digestion by stimulating production of digestive juices in the stomach and by fighting bacteria that could cause infection. Its antibacterial power also fights diarrhea caused by infection. As an expectorant, it thins mucus and helps move it out of the lungs. Because it also strengthens lung tissue, it is helpful for those with emphysema. Plant Description of Cayenne Pepper Cayenne is a shrub that grows in subtropical and tropical climates. Its fruit grows into long pods that turn red, orange, or yellow when they are ripe. The fruit is eaten raw or cooked, or is dried and powdered into the spice that has been used for centuries in food and medicines. What’s Cayenne Pepper Made Of? Studies have shown that capsaicin, the most active ingredient in cayenne, lowers blood cholesterol levels and decreases the intensity of pain signals in the body. It is also an antioxidant (which helps protect your cells from damage) and an antibacterial. Available Forms of Cayenne Pepper Cayenne may be taken by eating raw or cooked red pepper. Dried red pepper is available powdered, which may be added to food, stirred into juice, tea, or milk, or taken in capsule form. It also comes in creams for external use (should contain at least 0.025 percent capsaicin). How to Take Cayenne Pepper Because cayenne is so good for your heart, adding it regularly to food or taking it in capsule form can help prevent heart disease. Although it is spicy, it actually aids digestion and is not irritating to most ulcers. It is powerful even in small doses, so it is best not to take more than you would eat with food. As a pain reliever, cayenne powder or cream can help relieve toothache, shingles, arthritis, psoriasis, and other kinds of chronic pain. Although it may cause some initial burning or itching, this should go away quickly. Because cayenne works by first stimulating and then decreasing the intensity of pain signals in the body, the pain may increase slightly but then should diminish greatly over the first few days. As an external pain reliever (that is, when applied to the skin), capsaicin cream (0.025 to 0.075 percent capsaicin) may be applied directly to the affected area up to four times a day (brand names include Zostrix, Axsain, Capzasin-P). For improved digestion and prevention of heart disease, capsaicin may be taken in capsules (30 to 120 mg, three times daily). You can make an infusion by adding 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. of powder to a cup of boiling water and drinking it. Precautions for Cayenne Pepper Keep cayenne away from your eyes, and wash your hands thoroughly after use. Because cayenne does not dissolve easily in water, use vinegar to remove it. Capsaicin cream may cause skin irritation in some people. Test it on a small area of your skin before extended use. If it causes irritation, discontinue use. It may cause stomach irritation, but does not worsen duodenal ulcers. Do not use it for children under age 2. It is safe for use during pregnancy. It is not known if the spicy compounds are transferred through breast-feeding. Possible Interactions with Cayenne Pepper Using capsaicin cream on the skin may increase the risk of cough associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, medications used to regulate blood pressure. If you use capsaicin cream while on these medications and you develop a cough, discontinue use of the capsaicin cream. Supporting Research on Cayenne Pepper Boone CW, Kelloff GJ, Malone WE. Identification of candidate cancer chemopreventive agents and their evaluation in animal models and human clinical trials: a review. Cancer Res. 1990;50:2–9. Bouraoui A, Toumi A, Mustapha HB, et al. Effects of capsicum fruit on theophylline absorption and bioavailability in rabbits. Drug-Nutrient Interact. 1988;5:345–350. Chevallier A. The Encyclopedia of Medicinal Plants. London, England: DK Publishing Inc; 1996. Cliff MA, Green B. Sensitization and desensitization to capsaicin and menthol in the oral cavity: interactions and individual differences. Physiol Behav. 1996;59(3):487–494. Duke J. The Green Pharmacy. Emmaus, Pa: Rodale Press; 1997. Haka JF Jr. Topical capsaicin induces cough in patient receiving ACE inhibitor. Ann Allergy. 1990;65:322. Hot peppers and substance P. Lancet. 1983;I:1198. Editorial. Gruenwald J, Brendler T, Jaenicke C et al, eds. PDR for Herbal Medicines. Montvale, NJ: Medical Economics Company; 1998. Heinerman J. Heinerman’s Encyclopedia of Fruits, Vegetables and Herbs. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall; 1988. Kong YO, Kin CS, Kim ND, et al. Effect of capsicum components on liver microsomal cytochrome P-450 in rat [in Chinese]. Saeng Hakhoe Chi. 1979;10(1):17–22. Kowalchik C, Hylton W, eds. Rodale’s Illustrated Encyclopedia of Herbs. Emmaus, Pa: Rodale Press; 1987. Locock RA. Capsicum. Can Pharm J. 1985;517–519. Munn, S.E., et al. The effect of topical capsaicin on substance P immunoreactivity: A clinical trial and immuno-hisochemical analysis [letter]. Acta Derm Venereol (Stockh). 1997;77:158–159. Murray M. The Healing Power of Herbs. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1995. Newall C, et al. Herbal Medicines. London, England: Pharmaceutical Press; 1996. Tandan R, et al. Topical capsaicin in painful diabetic neuropathy. Controlled study with long-term follow-up. Diabetes Care. 1992;15:8–14. Tyler V. The Honest Herbal. New York, NY: Pharmaceutical Products Press; 1993. Visudhiphan S, et al. The relationship between high fibrinolytic activity and daily capsicum ingestion in Thais. Am J Clin Nutr. 1982;35:1452–1458. Vogl T. Treatment of hunan hand. N Engl J Med. 1982;306:178. Yeoh KG, et al. Chili protects against aspirin-induced gastroduodenal mucosal injury in humans. Dig Dis Sci. 1995;40:580–583. Copyright © Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Cayenne Pepper , Herbal Medicine No Comments » by admin Celery Seed November 4, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Celery Seed - Herbal Medicine Celery seed, whose sharp, refreshing flavor you may have tasted in pickles or sauerkraut, is also a useful herbal medicine. Celery seed has had varied uses around the world for thousands of years. Recent scientific studies have shown that certain chemicals in celery seed may actually help problems such as high blood pressure, arthritis, and anxiety. Celery seed may also help prevent cancer. Celery seed has long been used to treat both arthritis and muscle spasm. Several chemicals in celery seed block inflammation or relieve pain. Others chemicals relax muscles that are in spasm. Celery seed contains calcium, which can help relax muscle cramps. Certain chemicals in celery seed are anti-bacterial, while others are diuretic, meaning that they help remove water from the body in the form of urine. This helps wash away bacteria and the minerals that cause kidney and bladder stones. Several chemicals in celery seed are hypotensive, meaning that they help lower blood pressure. Celery seeds are also rich in calcium, which may also lower blood pressure. Celery seed has long been used in traditional medicine to treat gout and kidney stones. It lowers the levels of uric acid in the body. Studies in lab animals show that celery seed prevents liver damage caused by toxic chemicals. It has been used for centuries as a liver tonic. Celery seed strengthens muscles in the uterus, which helps increase menstrual flow. A compound in celery seed called limonene acts as a mild tranquilizer. The calcium in celery seed helps calm tense nerves. Celery seed may also help prevent cancer. A number of chemicals in celery seed prevented tumors in lab animals exposed to cancer-causing substances. Plant Description of Celery Seed Celery seeds come from the same plant whose stalks we’ve all eaten and cooked with. If you’ve never seen the stalks in their natural habitat, the celery plant is slender and stands about two to three feet tall. It has three to five segmented leaves, and flowers with small white petals. The seeds come from the flowers, are very small, are tan to dark brown, and have a strong, pleasant smell. What’s Celery Seed Made Of? Volatile oils (including apiol), flavonoids, boron, calcium, iron, limonene, sodium, zinc, 3-N-butyl-phthalide, alpha-linolenic-acid, beta-eudesmol, guaiacol, isoimperatorin, isoquercitrin, limonene, p-cymene, terpinen-4-ol, umbelliferone. Available Forms of Celery Seed -	Fresh or dried seeds -	Tablets -	Capsules filled with celery seed oil -	Celery seed extract, in which the active ingredients of celery seed have been extracted by alcohol or glycerin How to Take Celery Seed -	Celery seed oil capsules or tablets: Take one to two capsules or tablets three times a day, as directed by your health care provider. -	Celery seed extract: Take 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. three times a day, or as directed by your health care provider. (Always take with plenty of juice or with water at mealtime, unless instructed otherwise.) -	Whole celery seeds: Prepare a tea by pouring boiling water over one teaspoon (1 to 3 g) of freshly crushed seeds. Let it steep for 10 to 20 minutes before drinking. Drink this tea three times a day. Precautions with Celery Seed -	Do not use celery seed if you are, or could be, pregnant. -	Celery seed is a safe herb. One word of caution, though. If you use it as a diuretic, consult your doctor first. Diuretics can deplete your body of potassium, which is an essential nutrient. -	Also, don’t use celery seeds from a garden packet. Most seeds sold for planting have been treated with chemicals and shouldn’t be taken internally. Possible Interactions with Celery Seed No harmful drug interactions have been reported. Supporting Research on Celery Seed Appel LJ, Moore TJ et al. A clinical trial of the effects of dietary patterns on blood pressure. N Engl J Med. 1997;336:1117–1124. Abstract. Atta AH, et al. Anti-nociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects of some Jordanian medicinal plant extracts. J Ethnopharmacol. 1998;60:117–124. Balch J, Balch P. Prescription for Nutritional Healing: A-to-Z Guide to Drug-Free Remedies Using Vitamins, Minerals, Herbs, & Food Supplements. New York, NY: Avery Publishing Group; 1990. Banerjee S, Sharma R, Kale RK, Rao AR. Influence of certain essential oils on carcinogen-metabolizing enzymes and acid-soluble sulfhydryls in mouse liver. Nutr Cancer. 1994;21:263–269. Abstract. Boffa MJ, Gilmour E, Ead RD. Case report. Celery soup causing severe phototoxicity during PUVA therapy [letter]. Br J Dermatol. 1996;135(2):334. Duke JA. Handbook of Phytochemical Constituents of GRAS Herbs and Other Economic Plants. Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1992. Ko FN, et al. Vasodilatory action mechanisms of apigenin isolated from Apium graveolens in rat thoracic aorta. Biochim Biophys Acta. November 14; 1991;1115:69–74. Lewis, DA, et al. The anti-inflammatory activity of celery Apium graveolens L. Int J Crude Drug Res. 1985;23. Miller L. Herbal medicinals: selected clinical considerations focusing on known or potential drug-herb interactions. Arch Intern Med. 1988;158(20):2200–2211. Mills SY. Dictionary of Modern Herbalism: A Comprehensive Guide to Practical Herbal Therapy. Rochester, Vt: Healing Arts Press; 1988. Singh A, Handa SS. Hepatoprotective activity of Apium graveolens and Hygrophila auriculata against paracetamol and thioacetamide intoxication in rats. J Ethnopharmacol. 1995;49:119–126. Steinmetz KA, Potter JD. Vegetables, fruit, and cancer. II. Mechanisms. Cancer Causes Control. 1991;2:427–442. Abstract. Teng CM, Lee LG, Ko SN, et al. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by apigenin from Apium graveolens. Asia Pac J Pharmacol. 1985;3:85. Tsi D, et al. Effects of aqueous celery (Apium graveolens) extract on lipid parameters of rats fed a high fat diet. Planta Med. 1995;61:18–21. Zheng GQ, et al. Chemoprevention of benzo[a]pyrene-induced forestomach cancer in mice by natural phthalides from celery seed oil. Nutr Cancer. 1993;19:77–86. Zheng GQ, Kenney PM, Zhang J, Lam LK. Chemoprevention of benzo[a]pyrene-induced forestomach cancer in mice by natural phthalides from celery seed oil. Nutr Cancer. 1993;19:77–86. Copyright © Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Celery Seed , Herbal Medicine No Comments » by admin Echinacea November 4, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Echinacea - Herbal Medicine Native Americans used echinacea since at least the 1600s. They used the plant to treat snakebite, gum and mouth disease, colds, coughs, blood poisoning, sore throat, stomach and intestinal pain. Echinacea was also historically used for scarlet fever, syphilis, malaria, blood poisoning, and diphtheria. Through the 1800s, Echinacea was the most widely used plant drug in the United States, dispensed by both traditional doctors and the “nature doctors” (who were also called Eclectic physicians). It remained on the national list of official plant drugs in the United States until the 1940s and was most likely taken off this list because the conditions Echinacea had been used for were by then being treated with antibiotics. In the 1980s, experiments with echinacea demonstrated that it still had possible therapeutic applications. Today, some people note that echinacea reduces the amount of time it takes for a cold or flu to run its course. It is also used for nasal, sinus, and bronchial illnesses, and echinacea ointments can speed the healing of wounds that are slow to heal. Plant Description of Echinacea Echinacea has tall stems and bears single flowers that look similar to black-eyed Susans, except that echinacea flowers are pink or purple, and the cone in the middle is usually a purplish brown. The cone (the “eye” in black-eyed Susan) is actually a seed head and is very large on echinacea flowers. It has sharp spines that look like a stiff comb or an angry hedgehog. This is actually where echinacea got its name: echinos is Greek for hedgehog. Of nine species, three are used medicinally, which vary in appearance from the intensity of petal color to the stiff or drooping way the petals encircle the seed head. What’s Echinacea Made Of? Many plant chemicals are involved in echinacea’s effects: polysaccharides, flavonoids, caffeic acid derivatives, essential oils, polyacetylenes, alkylamides, and alkaloids. Polysaccharides are known to trigger cells in the body that fight infection. Available Products and Forms of Echinacea Extracts, tinctures, tablets, capsules, ointments, and stabilized fresh extracts are available. How to Take Echinacea Echinacea’s immune stimulant actions reduce inflammation and help the body fight bacteria and viruses. Tests show that echinacea stimulates immune system cells into action. When these cells are activated, white blood cells are more ready to wrap themselves around illness-causing invaders and to move viruses or bacteria out of your system, prevent them from reproducing themselves, or simply stop their activity. While many individuals choose to take echinacea on a daily basis during the winter to help prevent colds and flu, studies have not consistently shown that this type of use is effective. On the other hand, echinacea can reduce the length of time that you have a cold or the flu. And, if you have rheumatoid arthritis and have trouble with steroid-based anti-inflammatory drugs, echinacea may provide you with very mild relief and no side effects. For general immune system stimulation, during colds, flu, upper respiratory tract infection, or bladder infection, choose from the following forms of Echinacea and take three times a day. -	1 to 2 g dried root, as tea -	2 to 3 ml of 22 percent ethanol extract standardized to contain 2.4 percent beta-1,2-fructofuranosides -	200 mg of powdered extract containing 6.5:1, or 3.5 percent, echinacoside -	Fluid extract (1:1): .5 ml to 1 ml -	Tincture (1:5): 1 to 3 ml -	Stabilized fresh extract: .75 ml For arthritis, take 15 drops daily of a standardized Echinacea extract produced by a reputable manufacturer. For slow-healing wounds, apply Echinacea creams or ointments as desired. Precautions for Echinacea The American Herbal Products Association gives echinacea a class 1 safety rating, so it’s safe as long as you use it as recommended by your health care provider or as instructed on the product label. In Germany, continual use of echinacea is restricted to eight weeks. Discuss long-term use with your health care provider. Echinacea is a member of the Compositae family and as such may rarely cause an allergic reaction. When you take echinacea orally, you will notice a strong numbing and tingling sensation on your tongue. This is normal and goes away quickly. Some cases of skin rash and itching have been reported, but these are rare. Do not use echinacea if you have tuberculosis, leukoses, diabetes, collagenosis, multiple sclerosis, AIDS, HIV infection, or an autoimmune disease. If you are pregnant, consult with your health care provider before taking echinacea. Possible Interactions with Echinacea Because echinacea can affect your immune system, do not take this herb if you are on any immunosuppressive therapies. Supporting Research on Echinacea Berman S. Dramatic increase in immune-mediated HIV killing activity induced by Echinacea angustifolia. Int Conf AIDS 12 (582). Abstract 32309. Blumenthal M, ed. The Complete German Commission E Monographs: Therapeutic Guide to Herbal Medicine. Boston, Mass: Integrative Medicine Communications; 1998. Bräunig B, Dorn M, Knick E. Echinacea purpurea radix for strengthening the immune response in flu-like infections. Z Phytotherapie. 1992;13:7–13. Dorn M, Knick E, Lewith G. Placebo-controlled, double-blind study of Echinacea pallidaeradix in upper respiratory tract infections. Complementary Therapies in Medicine. 1997;5:40–42. Hobbs C. Echinacea: a literature review. Herbalgram 1994;30:33–47. Hobbs C. The Echinacea Handbook. Sandy, Ore: Eclectic Medical; 1989. Coeugniet E, Kuhnast R. Adjuvant immunotherapy with different formulations of echinacin [in German]. Therapiwoche. 1986;36:3352–3358. Hoheisel O, Sandberg M, Bertram S, Bulitta M, Schäfer M. Echinagard treatment shortens the course of the common cold: a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. European Journal of Clinical Research. 1997;9:261–269. Hyman R, Pankhurst R. Plants and Their Names: A Concise Dictionary. New York, NY: Oxford University Press; 1995. Mattocks AR. Chemistry and Toxicology of Pyrrolytic Alkaloids. New York, NY: Academic Press; 1986:chap 12. McGuffin M, Hobbs C, Upton R, Goldberg A, eds. American Herbal Products Association’s Botanical Safety Handbook. Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1996. Melchart D, Walther E, Linde K, Brandmaier R, Lersch C. Echinacea root extracts for the prevention of upper respiratory tract infections: a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial. Arch Fam Med. 1998;7:541–545. Melchart D, Linde IK, Worku F, Sarkady L, Holzmann M, Jurcic K, et al. Results of Five Randomized Studies on the Immunomodulatory Activity of Preparations of Echinacea. J Alt Comp Med. 1995;1(2):145–160. Miller LG. Herbal medicinals: selected clinical considerations focusing on known or potential drug-herb interactions. Arch Intern Med. 1998;158(20):2200–2211. Murray MT. The Healing Power of Herbs: The Enlightened Person’s Guide to the Wonders of Medicinal Plants. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1995. Newall CA, Anderson LA, Phillipson JD. Herbal Medicines: A Guide for Health-Care Professionals. London: The Pharmaceutical Press; 1996. Schulz V, Hänsel R, Tyler VE. Rational Phytotherapy: A Physicians’ Guide to Herbal Medicine. 3rd ed. Berlin: Springer; 1998. Snow JM. Echinacea. Protocol J Botanical Medicine. 1997;2:18–24. Thompson KD. Antiviral activity of Viracea against acyclovir susceptible and acyclovir resistant strains of herpes simplex virus. Antiviral Res. 1998;39:55–61. Tyler VE. Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals. Binghamton, NY: Pharmaceutical Products Press; 1994. Verhoef MJ, Hagen N, Pelletier G, Forsyth P. Alternative therapy use in neurologic disease: use in brain tumor patients. Neurology 1999;52:617–622. Copyright ©  Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Echinacea , Herbal Medicine No Comments » by admin Aloe Vera November 4, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Aloe Vera Aloe vera has a long history of use as a medicinal plant, with written records of its use going back to 1750 BC. Today it is grown in most subtropical and tropical locations, including the Caribbean, southern United States, Latin America, and the Middle East. Many people also grow a small potted version indoors for use in healing minor burns and cuts. Aloe Vera Plant Description Aloe vera is a perennial plant with yellow flowers. Its tough, fleshy, spearlike leaves can grow up to 20 inches long, and the whole plant up to 4 feet high. Only the leaves are used for medicine, but different parts of the leaves are used for different purposes. The clear, thick gel that is most commonly associated with aloe vera comes from the inner part of the leaf. Between this gel and the outer skin of the Aloe Vera leaf are some special cells that contain a bitter yellow juice. When this juice is dried, it forms aloe latex. What’s Aloe Vera Made Of? Aloe Vera gel contains glycoproteins, which stop pain and inflammation and speed the healing process, and polysaccharides, which stimulate skin growth and repair. The anthraquinones in aloe latex work as powerful laxatives, and in smaller amounts, these chemicals can help stop kidney stone formation. Aloe gel can be used to heal both internal and external wounds. It greatly speeds the healing of many skin injuries, including ulcerations, burns, and frostbite. Aloe latex is a powerful laxative, but because it can cause painful cramping, it is not used frequently. In smaller doses, aloe latex can help prevent kidney stones or reduce their size. It is also useful as a stool softener, particularly in people who have painful hemorrhoids. Aloe juice is a liquid form of aloe gel that you can take internally. Because Aloe Vera has antibacterial properties, aloe juice can be used to treat bacterial infections in the gastro-intestinal tract. Aloe Vera is also effective for healing peptic ulcers because it reduces the stomach acids that aggravate ulcers. Recent studies have shown that acetylated mannose, an antiviral component of aloe, has important HIV-fighting properties. Acetylated mannose attacks the virus itself, but more important, it greatly enhances the action of AZT, a powerful drug used to treat HIV infection. If taken in conjunction with aloe, the amount of AZT taken for HIV could be reduced by 90 percent, which would greatly reduce the expense and side effects associated with AZT. Available Forms of Aloe Vera Aloe gel is best fresh from an aloe plant, but it is also available commercially in a stabilized gel form. Aloe latex is available in a powdered form or in 500-mg capsules for use as a laxative. Aloe juice is a liquid form of the gel. How to Take Aloe Vera Aloe gel is best when taken fresh from the plant. Many people keep an aloe plant in their kitchen to treat minor burns or cuts. It can also be effective for treating hives and poison ivy. To use the gel, slit a leaf lengthwise and remove the gel inside. Apply liberally to affected area. Aloe latex has been used traditionally as a laxative, but it is used infrequently in the US. Because it can produce painful cramping, other gentler herbal laxatives such as cascara and senna are recommended first. For kidney stones and as a stool softener, take 0.05 to 0.2 grams of dry aloe extract (latex). For HIV, take 800 to 1600 mg of acetylated mannose per day. This is equivalent to .5 to 1 liter of aloe vera juice, although amounts of acetylated mannose may vary in different products. Precautions for Aloe Vera Aloe gel is safe for external use, unless it causes a rare allergic reaction. Discontinue use if it irritates the skin. Aloe gel is not useful for treatment of deep wounds. Aloe latex may cause severe intestinal cramps or diarrhea. Pregnant or nursing women should not take aloe latex because it may cause uterine contractions and trigger miscarriage. Aloe latex is not recommended for gastrointestinal illness, intestinal obstruction, appendicitis, or stomach pain of unknown cause. It may aggravate ulcers, hemorrhoids, diverticulosis, diverticulitis, colitis, or irritable bowel syndrome. If it’s taken over a long period of time, aloe latex can cause dependence or disturb the electrolyte balance. It may also cause urine to turn a harmless red color. Children under 12 should not use aloe latex. Possible Interactions with Aloe Vera Chronic internal use of aloe could cause potassium deficiency. Low potassium levels can interfere with certain heart medications, like digoxin or other antiarrhythmic medications used to correct irregular heartbeat. The potential for potassium deficiency is greater if you use aloe with licorice, corticosteroid medications, and most diuretics (except potassium-sparing diuretics that do not deplete potassium levels). It is best to avoid taking aloe with any of these medications. Supporting Research on Aloe Vera Blitz JJ, et al. Aloe vera gel in peptic ulcer therapy: preliminary report. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 1963;62:731–735. Blumenthal M, ed. The Complete German Commission E Monographs. Boston, Mass: Integrative Medicine Communications. 1998. Brinker F. Herb Contraindications and Drug Interactions. 2nd ed. Sandy, Ore: Eclectic Medical; 1998:28-30. Brinker F. The Toxicology of Botanical Medicines. Rev 2nd ed. Sandy, Ore: Eclectic Medical; 1996. Castleman M. The Healing Herbs. New York, NY: Bantam Books. 1991. Chauhan O, Godhwani JL, Khanna NK, et al. Anti-inflammatory activity of Muktashukti bhasma. Indian J Exp Biol. 1998;36(10):985–989. Danhof I. Potential benefits from orally-injested internal aloe vera gel. International Aloe Science Council Tenth Annual Aloe Scientific Semina; 1991; Irving, Texas. De Smet PAGM, et al, eds. Adverse Effects of Herb Drugs 2. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag; 1993. Desai KN, Wei H, Lamartiniere CA. The preventive and therapeutic potential of the squalene-containing compound, Roidex, on tumor promotion and regression. Cancer Lett. 1996; 101(1):93-96. Duke J. The Green Pharmacy. Emmaus, Penn: Rodale Press. 1997. Fahim MS, Wang M. Zinc acetate and lyophilized Aloe barbadensis as vaginal contraceptive. Contraception. 1996;53:231–236. Fulton JE Jr. The stimulation of postdermabrasion wound healing with stabilized aloe vera gel-polyethylene oxide dressing. J Dermatol Surg Onco. 1990;16:460. Grindlay D, Reynolds T. The aloe vera phenomenon: a review of the properties and modern uses of the leaf parenchyma gel. J Ethnopharmacol. 1986;16:117–151. Gruenwald J, Brendler T, Jaenicke C et al, eds. PDR for Herbal Medicines. Montvale, NJ: Medical Economics Company. 1998. Heggers J, et al. Beneficial effects of aloe in wound healing. Phytother Res. 1993;7:S48–S52. Murray M, Pizzorno J. Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing. 1991. Murray M. Healing Power of Herbs. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing. 1995. Newall C, et al. Herbal Medicines. London, England: Pharmaceutical Press. 1996. Paszkiewicz-Gadek A, Chlabicz J, Galasinski W. The influence of selected potential oncostatics of plant origin on the protein biosynthesis in vitro. Pol J Pharmacol. 1988;40(2):183–190. Plemmons JM, et al. Evaluation of acemannan in the treatment of aphthous stomatitis. Wounds.1994;6. Ryndina AM, Lin’kov VI, Dadiomova MA, et al. Experience using antihypoxic drugs in the treatment of acute neurosensory hearing loss in children with meningitis [in Russian]. Vestn Otorinolaringol. 1989;Mar–Apr(2):14–17. Saoo K, et al. Antiviral activity of aloe extracts against cytomegalovirus. Phytother Res. 1996;10:348–350. Schmidt JM, Greenspoon JS. Aloe vera dermal wound gel is associated with a delay in wound healing. Ostet Gynecol. 1991;78(1). Shida, T. et al. 1985. Effect of aloe extract on peripheral phagocytosis in adult bronchial asthma. Planta Med 51. Schmidt JM, Greenspoon JS. Aloe vera dermal wound gel is associated with a delay in wound healing. Ostet Gynecol. 1991;78(1). Syed TA, et al. Management of psoriasis with aloe vera extract in a hydrophilic cream: a placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Trop Med Int Health. 1996;1:505–509. Tyler V. The Honest Herbal. New York, NY: Pharmaceutical Products Press. 1993. Vazquez B, et al. Anti-inflammatory activity of extracts from aloe vera gel. JEthnopharmacol. 1996;55:69–75. Wichtl M, ed. Herbal Drugs and Phytopharmaceuticals. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1994. Copyright © Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Aloe Vera , Herbal Medicine No Comments » by admin Lavender Oil – Lavender Plants June 29, 2010 in Featured , Herbal Medicine by admin Lavender Oil – Lavender Plants Natural Remedies for Insomnia and Depression You may already appreciate lavender (Lavandula angustifolia) for its aromatic fragrance, used in soaps, shampoos, and sachets for scenting clothes. But this herb also is considered a natural remedy for a range of ailments, from insomnia and anxiety to depression and mood disturbances. Recent studies bear out years of anecdotal evidence showing that lavender produces calming, soothing, and anticonvulsive effects. According to some research, lavender essential oil may be as effective as certain barbiturates in treating sleep disorders. Lavender Plant Description Lavender is native to the mountainous zones of the Mediterranean where it grows in sunny, stony habitats, and it is now grown throughout southern Europe. Lavender is a heavily branched short shrub that grows to a height of 60 cm. Its broad rootstock bears woody branches with erect, rod-like, leafy, green shoots. A silvery down covers the gray-green narrow leaves, which are oblong and tapered, attached directly at the base, and curled spirally. The oil in the lavender plant’s small, blue-violet flowers is what gives them their fragrant scent. The flowers are arranged in spirals of 6 to 10 blossoms, forming interrupted spikes above the foliage. Lavender Plant Parts Used The fresh or dried flowers of the lavender plant are used for medicinal purposes. Lavender Medicinal Uses/Indications Lavender is a recognized treatment for the following conditions and symptoms. - Restlessness - Insomnia - Abdominal complaints - Rheumatism - Loss of appetite Lavender oil may also be used externally for a variety of treatments. Aromatherapists use it as a tonic in inhalation therapy to treat nervous disorders and exhaustion. Herbalists treat skin ailments, such as fungal infections, burns, wounds, eczema, and acne, with lavender oil. It is also used externally in a healing bath for circulatory disorders and as a rub for rheumatic ailments. Available Forms of Lavender Commercial lavender preparations are made from dried lavender flower, dried herb, and essential lavender oil. Lavender is available in the following forms: - Drug - Infusions - Teas - Lavender oil - Dried flower - Tinctures How to Take Lavender The following are recommended doses for lavender. - Internal use: Tea: 1 to 2 tsp. whole herb per cup of water. Lavender oil: 1 to 3 drops may be taken on sugar cube (however, other authorities advise against taking lavender oil internally). Tincture (1:4): 20 to 40 drops three times a day. - External use: inhalation: 2 to 4 drops in 2 to 3 cups of boiling water; inhale vapors for headache, depression, or insomnia. Topical application: lavender oil is one of the few oils that can be safely applied undiluted. For ease of application, add 1 to 4 drops per tablespoon of base oil. Precautions There are no side effects reported, although there is a slight risk of allergic reaction to lavender in certain people. Possible Interactions There are no known reports of harmful drug interactions with this herb but it may increase the sedative effects of many medications. Use with caution if taking medications with sedative effects such as antihistamines and therapies for anxiety and insomnia. Supporting Research on Lavender Atanassova-Shopova S, Roussinov KS. On certain central neurotropic effects of lavender essential oil. Bull Inst Physiology. 1970;8:69-76. Blumenthal M, ed. The Complete German Commission E Monographs. Boston, Mass: Integrative Medicine Communications; 1998. Dorland’s Illustrated Medical Dictionary. 25th ed. Philadelphia, Pa: W.B. Saunders; 1974. Gamez MJ, Jimenez J, Navarro C, Zarzuelo A. Aromatherapy: evidence for sedative effects of the essential oil of lavender after inhalation. Z Naturforsch. 1991;46c:1067-1072. Grieve M. A Modern Herbal. Vol. I. New York, NY: Dover; 1971. Gruenwald J, Brendler T, Jaenicke C. PDR for Herbal Medicines. Montvale, NJ: Medical Economics Company; 1998. Guillemain J, Rousseau A, Delaveau P. Effets neurodepresseurs de l’huile essentielle de Lavandula angustifolia Mill. Ann Pharmaceutiques Francaises. 1989;47:337-343. Hardy M, Kirk-Smith MD. Replacement of drug treatment for insomnia by ambient odor. Lancet. 1995;346:701. Lis-Balchin M, Hart S. A preliminary study of the effect of essential oils on skeletal and smooth muscle in vitro. J Ethnopharmacol. 1997;58(4):183-187. Schulz V, Hansel R, Tyler V. Rational Phytotherapy: A Physicians’ Guide to Herbal Medicine. 3rd ed. Berlin, Germany: Springer; 1998. Siurin SA. Effects of essential oil on lipid peroxidation and lipid metabolism in patients with chronic bronchitis. Klin Med (Mosk). 1997;58(4):43-45. Thomson WA, ed. Medicines from the Earth: A Guide to Healing Plants. Maidenhead, England: McGraw-Hill Book Company; 1978. Yamada K, Mimaki Y, Sashida Y. Anticonvulsive effects of inhaling lavender oil vapour. Biol Pharm Bull. 1994;17(2):359-360. Copyright © 2000 Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Depression , Herbal Medicine , Insomnia No Comments » by admin St. John’s Wort June 18, 2010 in Featured , Herbal Medicine by admin St. John's Wort St. John’s Wort once was thought to rid the body of evil spirits, but more recently it has been used to treat problems such as depression, anxiety, and sleeplessness. When steeped in oil and applied to the skin, it helps heal wounds and burns. Research suggests it may also be useful in treating infections caused by viruses. Here are some illnesses and conditions that St. John’s wort has been used to treat: bullet	Depression. St. John’s wort reduces symptoms of depression in people with mild to moderate forms of the condition. bullet	Seasonal affective disorder. Used alone, St. John’s wort improves mood. Effects are even greater when the herb is used in combination with light therapy. bullet	Other mood problems. St. John’s wort helps reduce anxiety, listlessness, and feelings of worthlessness. bullet	Sleep problems. The herb relieves sleeplessness (insomnia) and the tendency to sleep too long (hypersomnia). bullet	HIV infection and AIDS. Research and patients’ experiences suggest St. John’s wort may improve the health of people infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes AIDS. bullet	Wounds and burns. In forms that can be applied to the skin, St. John’s wort reduces pain and inflammation and promotes healing. bullet	Hemorrhoids. “Red oil,” a preparation made by steeping St. John’s wort flowers in oil, eases discomfort when applied to hemorrhoids. St. John’s Wort – Plant Description St. John’s wort is a shrubby plant with clusters of yellow flowers. The plant is often in full bloom around June 24, the day traditionally celebrated as the birthday of John the Baptist. Both the flowers and leaves are used as medicine. What is St. John’s Wort Made Of? The best-studied active components are hypericin and pseudohypericin, found in both the leaves and flowers. There has been recent research to suggest that these best-studied components may not be the most active in the plant, with significant debate ensuing within the industry. It also includes other components such as essential oils and flavonoids. Available Forms of St. John’s wort You can buy St. John’s wort in many forms: capsules, liquids, oil-based skin lotions, and teas. You can also buy chopped or powdered forms of the dried herb. Look for products that are standardized to contain 0.3% hypericin. How to Take St. John’s Wort When taken by mouth for depression and other mood problems, the usual dose is 300 to 500 mg at 0.3 percent, three times a day, with meals, for a minimum of four to six weeks. You can also make a tea by steeping 1 to 2 tsp. of dried St. John’s wort in a cup of boiling water for 10 minutes. Drink 1 to 2 cups a day for four to six weeks. But keep in mind that the dose you get when you make St. John’s wort tea may not be as consistent as what you get in capsules or other products. For treating wounds, burns or hemorrhoids, use an oil-based preparation of St. John’s wort that you can rub onto your skin. Precautions bullet	Depression is a serious condition. If your depression is severe or if you feel like hurting yourself or someone else, see a health care professional before using St. John’s wort. There are some conditions that you should not try to treat yourself with herbs or other over-the-counter medicines. A health care professional can help you decide whether St. John’s wort is right for you. bullet	Do not take St. John’s wort if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. bullet	St. John’s wort may make your skin unusually sensitive to sunlight. Although this reaction is rare, you should be careful about sun exposure if you have fair skin or if you are taking St. John’s wort in large doses or over a long time. Use a sunscreen with a skin protection factor (SPF) of at least 15, and do not use sunlamps, tanning booths or tanning beds. Side effects of St. John’s wort are usually mild and may include: - Abdominal pain, bloating, constipation - Nausea, vomiting - Dizziness - Dry mouth - Itching, hives, skin rash - Sleep problems - Elevated blood pressure - Unusual tiredness Possible Interactions with St. John’s Wort Using St. John’s wort with antiviral agents like indinavir and other protease inhibitors is not recommended. There is the possibility of an interaction between this herb and these medications that could undermine the effectiveness of the antiviral medications. St. John’s wort may interact with antidepressant medication that are used to treat depression or other mood disorders. Therefore, do not take this herb with any such medications. You should not take St. John’s wort if you are taking the heart medication digoxin because of the potentially dangerous interaction between this herb and this medication. You should not take this herb with immunosuppressive medications like cyclosporin because it may reduce the effectiveness of these medications. There have also been reports of bleeding in women taking St. John’s wort with birth control medications. The interaction between St. John’s wort and birth control medications may result in decreased effectiveness of these medications. Supporting Research on St. John’s Wort Bombardelli E, Morazzoni P. Hypericum perforatum. Fitoterapia. 1995;LXVI:43–68. Brinker F. Herb Contraindications and Drug Interactions. 2nd ed. Sandy, Ore: Eclectic Medical; 1998:123-125. Brown R. Potential interactions of herbal medicines with antipsychotics, antidepressants, and hypnotics. Eur J Herb Med. 1997;3(2):25–28. Degar S, et al. Inactivation of the human immunodeficiency virus by hypericin: Evidence for phytochemical alterations of p24 and a block in uncoating. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 1992;8:1929–1936. De Smet P, Peter AGM, Nolen WA. St. John’s wort as an antidepressant. Br Med J. 1996;313:241–247. D’Arcy PF. Adverse reactions and interactions with herbal medicines. Adv Drug React Toxicol Rev. 1993;12(3):147–162. Furner V, Bek M, Gold JA. A phase I/II unblinded dose ranging study of hypericin in HIV-positive subjects. Int Conf AIDS. 1991;7:199. Cott JM. In vitro receptor binding and enzyme inhibition by Hypericum perforatum extract. Pharmacopsychiatry. 1997;30(suppl 2):108–112. Gulick R, et al. Human hypericism: A photosensitivity reaction to hypericin (St. John’s wort). Int Conf AIDS. 1992; 8:B90. Hardman JG, Limbird LE, Molinoff PB, et al. Goodman and Gilman’s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics. 9th ed. New York, NY: Pergamon Press; 1996. Heiligenstein E, Guenther G. Over-the-counter psychotropics: a review of melatonin, St John’s wort, valerian, and kava kava. J Am Coll Health. 1998;46(6):271–276. Hippius H. St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum)—an herbal antidepressant. Curr Med Res Opin. 1998;14(3):171–184. Holz J, Demisch L, Gollnik B. Investigations about antidepressive and mood changing effects of Hypericum perforatum. Planta Med. 1989;55:643. Johne A, Brockmoller J, Bauer S, et al. Pharmacokinetic interaction of digoxin with an herbal extract from St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatun). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics 1999;66:338-45. Lavie G, et al. Studies of the human mechanism of action of the antiviral agents hypericin and pseudohypericin. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1989;86:5963–5967. Lieberman S. Nutraceutical review of St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) for the treatment of depression. J Women’s Health. 1998;7(2):177–182. Linde K, Ramirez G, Mulrow CD, et al. St. John’s wort for depression: an overview and meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials. BMJ. 1996;313:253–257. Martinez B, Kasper S, Ruhrmann S, Moller HJ. Hypericum in the treatment of seasonal affective disorders. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1994;7(Suppl 1):S29–33. McGuffin M, Hobbs C, Upton R, et al, eds. Botanical Safety Handbook . Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1997. Meruelo D, Lavie G, Lavie D. Therapeutic agents with dramatic antiretroviral activity and little toxicity at effective doses: Aromatic polycyclic diones hypericin and pseudohypericin. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1988;85:5230–5234. Miller LG. Herbal medicinals: selected clinical considerations focusing on known or potential drug-herb interactions. Arch Intern Med. 1998;158(20):2200–2211. Muller WE, Rolli M, Schafer C, Hafner, U. Effects of hypericum extract (LI 160) in biochemical models of antidepressant activity. Pharmacopsychiatry. 1997;30(suppl):102–107. Murray MT. Common questions about St. John’s wort extract. Am J Natural Med. 1997;4(7):14–19. Murray MT. The Healing Power of Herbs: The Enlightened Person’s Guide to the Wonders of Medicinal Plants. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1995. Nebel A, Schneider BJ, Baker RK, et al. Potential metabolic interaction between St. John’s wort and theophylline. Ann Pharmacother. 1999;33:502. Nordfors M, Hartvig P. St. John’s wort against depression in favor again [in Swedish]. Lakartidningen. 1997;94(25):2365–2367. Okpanyi SN, Weischer ML. Experimental animal studies of the psychotropic activity of the Hypericum extract. Arzneim-Forsch. 1987;37:10–13. Perovic S, Muller WEG. Pharmacological profile of Hypericum extract: effect on serotonin uptake by postsynaptic receptors. Arzneim-Forsch. 1995;45:1145–1148. Piscitelli S, Burstein AH, Chaitt D, et al. Indinavir concentrations and St. John’s wort [letter]. Lancet. 2000;355:547-548. Rasmussen P. St. John’s wort: a review of its use in depression. Australian Journal of Medical Herbalism. 1998;10:8–13. Reichert R. St John’s wort extract as a tricyclic medication substitute for mild to moderate depression. Quart Rev Nat Med. 1995;Winter:275–278. Ruschitzka F, Meier PJ, Turina M, et al. Acute heart transplant rejection due to Saint John’s wort. Lancet. 2000,355. Available at www.thelancet.com. Sparenburg B, Demisch L, Hoezl J. Antidepressant constituents of St. John’s wort. PZ Wiss. 1993;6:50–54. Tyler VE. The Honest Herbal: A Sensible Guide to the Use of Herbs and Related Remedies. Binghamton, NY: Pharmaceutical Products Press; 1993. Wagner H, Bladt S. Pharmaceutical quality of hypericum extracts. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1994;(suppl 1):S65–S68. Woelk H, Burkhard G, Grunwald J. Benefits and risks of the hypericum extract LI 160: drug monitoring study with 3250 patients. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1994;(suppl 1):S34–S38. Yue Q, Bergquist C, Gerden B. Safety of St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) [letter]. Lancet. 2000;355:576-577. Copyright © 2000 Integrative Medicine Communications The publisher does not accept any responsibility for the accuracy of the information or the consequences arising from the application, use, or misuse of any of the information contained herein, including any injury and/or damage to any person or property as a matter of product liability, negligence, or otherwise. No warranty, expressed or implied, is made in regard to the contents of this material. No claims or endorsements are made for any drugs or compounds currently marketed or in investigative use. This material is not intended as a guide to self-medication. The reader is advised to discuss the information provided here with a doctor, pharmacist, nurse, or other authorized healthcare practitioner and to check product information (including package inserts) regarding dosage, precautions, warnings, interactions, and contraindications before administering any drug, herb, or supplement discussed herein. Tags: Depression , Herbal Medicine No Comments » To start connecting please log in first.															 You can also create an account . Username Password Remember Me Members Groups Forums Tags Acne Acupuncture Alzheimer's Aromatherapy Bone Infection Breast Cancer Bronchitis Cancer Cholesterol Cystic Fibrosis Depression Dermatology Diabetes Endocarditis Fibromyalgia Fitness Food Allergies Gastritis Herbal Medicine Homeopathy Insomnia Kidney Stones Leukemia Massage Therapy Men's Health Menopause Multiple Sclerosis Nail Disorders Nutrition Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Prostate Cancer Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Stress Sun Tanning Tendinitis Traditional Chinese Medicine Ulcerative Colitis Varicose Veins Vitamins - Supplements Water Whooping Cough Women's Health Yoga Recent Posts Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Couples Massages HIV and AIDS Dementia Symptoms WPMU DEV Copyright ©2012 Alternative Dr - Alternative Medicine Wellness Community Go back to top ↑ SEO Services Company Al