
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 17:42:11 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.37 (Unix) PHP/4.4.4 mod_ssl/2.8.28 OpenSSL/0.9.8d
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.4
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Depression and Combined Therapies Meet the Staff Site Map Contact Us The ABCs of TCM & Acupuncture Find an Acupuncturist Ask an Acupuncturist Find a School Extended Search Acupuncture Calendar Classified Advertising Industry News Discussion Forum Needles, Supplies & Equipment Herbs, Nutrients, Supplements Seminars, Education & Services Quick Links News Current Issue Previous Issues Author Guidelines Editorial Calendar Columnists Acupuncture Links FAQs Herbs & Botanicals Vitamins, Minerals and Dietary Supplements Newsletters To Your Health AT News Update AT Deals & Events Browse Editorial Topics AT News Update e-mail newsletter Subscribe Today Local Guides E-mail to a Friend | Printer Friendly Version | PDF Version Acupuncture Today November, 2005, Vol. 06, Issue 11 Share | Depression and Combined Therapies By Ju He, LAc, Dipl. Ac., CHM and Meg Davis Depression is a prevalent and serious illness. In the United States, approximately 4.9 percent of the population experiences depression. Diagnosis The diagnosis of depression is based on the following list of symptoms: depressed mood for a majority of the day; markedly decreased interest or pleasure in all or almost all activities for a majority of the day; significant unintended changes in weight or appetite; insomnia or hypersomnia; psychomotor agitations or retardation; fatigue or loss of energy, and feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt; diminished ability to think or concentrate; and recurrent thoughts of death, suicide, or attempted suicide. At least five of the above symptoms must be present nearly every day for a two-week period for a person to be diagnosed as experiencing depression. Epidemiology and Risk Factors The common factors that increase the likelihood of experiencing depression include: gender (women are twice as likely to experience depression as men); major medical illness; family history of depression; sleep disturbances; low socioeconomic status; and present stressful life events. In addition, individuals ages 15 to 24 seem to be at higher risk of presenting three or more depressive symptoms. Patients with major medical illnesses experience depression at a rate higher than those who are relatively healthy. The prevalence of depression in the population of people with major medical illnesses is as follows: Condition Percentage Alzheimer's disease Cancer Chronic fatigue Congestive heart failure Coronary artery disease Diabetes mellitus Fibromyalgia HIV/AIDS Multiple sclerosis Parkinson's disease Rheumatoid arthritis Stroke 11-22% 6-39% 17% 36.5% 8-44% 11% 18% 4-35% 54% 10-32% 12.5% 22-50% If used over a period of time, some substances may cause depression, includingalcohol,amphotericin B, codeine, antihypertensives (reserpine, methyldopa, propranolol), baclofen, corticosteriods, cocaine, estrogens, histamine antagonists , and marijuana. Classification of Depressive Disorders and Their Characteristics Major Depression melancholic features, older, experiences loss of pleasure, worse in morning atypical feature(s), younger, anxious and vegetative rapid cycling episodes (more than four per year) Dysthymia experiencing mild and long-term depressed mood, present more often than not for at least 2 years poor appetite, insomnia, low energy, low self-esteem, difficulty concentrating, feelings of hopelessness Bipolar Disorder episodes of mania and hypomania includes three or more of the following: grandiosity (inflated self-esteem), decreased need for sleep, feeling unusually pressured, rapid speech, racing thoughts, distractibility; increased goal-directed behavior, impaired judgment Bereavement reaction to the death of a loved one affects mood, sleep, and appetite usually lasts approximately 2 months Affective Disorders Specific to Women premenstrual dysphoric disorder postpartum depression menopausal symptoms Prevention Primary prevention should be directed toward individuals with risk factors. Tertiary prevention, which involves treatment of depressive episodes for at least 9 months, is essential in individuals who have had three or more episodes of depression. Treatments Psychopharmacology In the human body, serotonin is synthesized from tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HT). According to the biogenic amine theory, depression is due to a deficiency of monoamines, such as norepinephrine and serotonin, at certain key sites in the brain. Mania is envisioned as being caused by an overproduction of these neurotransmitters. Almost all of these antidepressants affect the metabolism of serotonin, including: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as fluoxetine 5-HT antagonists (nefazodone, trazodone) tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), such as bupropion and mirtazapine monoanime oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), which degrade norepinephrine, serotonin, and tyramine Psychotherapy Psychotherapeutic treatment of depression includes behavioral therapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, and interpersonal therapy. Behavioral therapy identifies problematic situations and behaviors, helps with social skill training, and increases pleasant activities (while reducing unpleasant ones). Cognitive-behavioral therapy encourages a systematic change in negative thought patterns, requires patient monitoring of thoughts and negative thought patterns, and uses techniques for challenging maladaptive thoughts. Interpersonal therapy teaches recognition of interpersonal function and dysfunction, and teaches improvement of coping skills through enhanced interpersonal functioning. Mild-to-moderately depressed patients may still have enough motivation to have an interest in actively participating in their treatment. Patients who clearly identify their depression as a result of environmental stressors should be seen as strong candidates for psychotherapy, because it can provide a remedy specific to the problem. Acupuncture, Herbal Therapies, and Changing Lifestyle According to traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), depression is a condition that presents with both deficiency and excess symptoms. The bipolar type of depression is the most frequent depression condition seen by TCM practitioners. Fatigue, loss of appetite, and low body weight are deficient symptoms. Postpartum depression is most often due to qi and blood deficiency. Women with menopausal symptoms usually experience yin and qi deficiency. Anxiety, agitation, mania, and obesity reflect the excess conditions of liver fire and phlegm. The TCM practitioner should start to reduce the physical symptoms of depression, adjust the organ functions that affect the mental patterns of depression, and educate the patient on healthy lifestyle choices. The Chinese herbal formulas of bu zhong yi qi tang (ginseng & astragalus formula), gui pi tang (ginseng & longan formula), and suan zao ren tang (zizyphus formula) are very helpful for patients with insomnia and fatigue due to qi and blood deficiency. Acupuncture has shown positive results in pain management and stroke recovery, and some research has shown that it might change neurotransmitter levels in the brain. Acupuncture is very useful to patients with emotional insomnia, agitation and mania due to liver qi stagnation and liver fire hyperactivity. The points on the scalp are the first choice in the treatment of depression. They are quite good at treating emotional agitation and insomnia. Frequently used scalp points in this type of treatment include sishengcong , taiyang , yintang , anmian , GB 8, GB 20, St 8, UB 7, UB 10, Du 20, and Du 24. Scalp points can be combined with the body points of Ht 7, Sp 6, St 36, LI 4, LI 3, K 3, and P 6. Fewer needles should be used for patients experiencing severe fatigue. The use of auricular (ear) points heightens the overall effectiveness of treatment. The final goal of the treatment of depression is for patients to have a normal life and become independent from drug treatment. It is important to have as part of every treatment protocol for depression counseling in the need for physical exercise, lifestyle changes and proper nutrition. Physical exercise stimulates the sympathetic system and induces the secretion of norepinephrine. A normal diet (especially one with protein-rich foods) provides tryptophan, a material that synthesizes serotonin. Tryptophan is an essential amino acid, and like vitamins, is available in protein-rich foods. Endogenous neurotransmitters are very important for the recovery of depression. Conclusion Depression is a common mental disorder. Its causes are unclear. Acupuncture and Oriental medicine can play a unique role alongside other therapies in the treatment of depression. It is safe, stable, and more focused on physical changes of symptoms. Acupuncture has been shown to have multiple positive outcomes of a person on the physical, emotional, and mental levels. In order to clearly understand the effectiveness of acupuncture and Chinese herbs in treating depression, we need clinical trials, criteria of symptom changes, and organized scientific data. With an increase in reproducible clinical trials will come increased respect for acupuncture and Oriental medicine in the treatment of depression from professionals in conventional medicine. Reference Levenson JL. Depression . Philadelphia: American College of Physicians, 2000, p. 8. AT Deals & Events e-mail newsletter Subscribe Today Alternative Health News The Relationship Between Doctors and Massage: A Look at the Past In 1888, a practicing physician in Carlsbad, Bohemia, by the name of Emil Kleen MD, PhD, wrote a book called the Handbook of Massage in his Swedish language. Singing Out Stress: A Massage Therapist's View of Singing In a nutshell, being authentic is about being entirely relaxed in the 
seat of who you are. Much of the world is in a constant state of frenzy,
 and this affects us. The amount of stimulation is overwhelming to try 
and filter through and keep a grasp on your sanity. Massage Therapy Research Examines New Possibilities Research is an emerging component in the massage therapy field, all the more since the Massage Therapy Foundation (MTF) came on the scene in 1990. An Apple a Day: Lessons From Steve Jobs I recently read Steve Jobs' biography, and though a long book, I highly recommend it. As I was reading it, I couldn't help but think about how much he changed our world. Laughter: It Just Might Be the Best Medicine for You We have all heard this saying before, and I am sure we have all 
experienced the "pick-me-up" a good chuckle provides when we are feeling
 down. However, did this adage become common simply due to parents 
trying to calm their children when sick or angry? We Get Letters & E-Mail Evaluating Concussions: Stay Current of the Latest Research and Protocols; How to Solve Buyer's Remorse in Chiropractic; We Need to Raise Educational Standards, Not Lower Them. The Medical Model vs. the Chiropractic Wellness Model: Let's Compare There is something powerful in an ultimatum, especially when it involves
 making a comparison or calling someone's bluff. There is a certain 
decisiveness to the phase, "Put up or shut up," that just can't be 
denied. A New Method for Dealing with Hip Rotators Remember "Piece Goods Often Go On Quilts" or as my anatomy teacher 
taught us, "Pirformis and the Go-Go Queens?" Both are memorization tools
 for recalling the names of the six deep lateral rotators of the hip. Massage Therapy and Joint Mobilization Massage therapy involves a number of treatment tools that can be 
employed for a variety of purposes. Massage can be done to decrease 
stress, improve local fluid circulation, create energetic balancing or 
simply provide touch. Practice Building: Learning to Engage All the Senses Patients are constantly evaluating their treatment experience utilizing a
 multitude of sensory stimuli including sight, hearing, smell and touch. Change in Obscure Tenn. Law Targets Profession The state of Tennessee now has a bill before its state legislature that 
will have a significant impact on the massage therapy profession and its
 standing with consumers. Using Social Media to Enhance Your Practice The world has changed dramatically in the past 10 years, and especially 
in the past five years, in terms of how we choose to communicate. Reimagining Our Health Care System: Making Health the Goal Today's health care system is oriented toward high-tech, 
transaction-based services that prolong life by controlling disease. But
 upwards of 75 percent of America's health care expenses are due to 
lifestyle-influenced chronic diseases. Experimental Exercise for Golfers, Part 3 As I've emphasized in the first two parts of this series [Oct. 21 and Dec. 2, 2011 issues, respectively], I've noticed that every golfer wants two things related to the sport. One is to drive the ball further, and the other is to keep playing golf without injury. Trying to Get Something From Nothing You are going to be hearing more and more about evidence-based massage 
therapy (EBMT). Partly, this reflects a current trend in health care to 
re-evaluate treatment and to determine what has a sound basis for use 
and what doesn't. Make a Resolution to End the Massage Therapy Discount All too often, massage therapists discount their services in an effort 
to bring clients in the door. Sure, it is risky for a client to spend 
$100 and an hour (or more) of time on an unknown massage therapist. Research Abstracts From the Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics Chiropractic Treatment vs. Self-Management in Patients With Acute Chest Pain; Intraoral Myofascial Therapy for Chronic Myogenous TMD; Effect of Cervical Spine Manipulative Therapy on Judo Athletes' Grip Strength. California Chiropractic Board Targeted – Again As a long list of prior naïve governors has done, California Gov. Jerry Brown has targeted the state chiropractic board
 for elimination as an independent board, and instead proposed that it 
be put under the Department of Consumer Affairs along with the medical 
profession. That Calf Strain May Be a Deep-Vein Thrombosis I recently read an article in the Journal of Orthopedic and Sports Physical Therapy that discusses an interesting situation we should all be aware of – deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) presenting as a calf strain. Kinesiology: May the Force Be With You There is no question about it - kinesiology is cool! That's what I think
 anyway, and it boggles my mind when others are not as intrigued. But, I
 think it is just that some simply do not realize the benefit of this 
fascinating field of study. Achilles Injuries, Part 1: Insertional Tendinitis Despite its broad width and significant strength, the Achilles tendon is
 injured with surprising regularity. WIBB Exclusive: Selling Yourself Short What is wrong with the following statement? FIRE!!!! Ready...aim. It 
seems silly, counter intuitive and even dangerous to get such important 
steps this badly out of order. You would not do it with a rifle, why 
would you do it with your business? Statins and Cardiovascular Disease: Not as Protective as We're Led to Believe I am regularly asked about statins by chiropractors whose general medical practitioner tells them they need to be on statins because their total cholesterol is a little over 200 mg/dL. Conservative vs. Surgical Care of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis The study reports the results of the Spine Patient Outcomes Research 
Trial (SPORT), which included a randomized cohort (RC) and a concurrent 
observational cohort (OC) of patients who declined randomization. Manipulation Improves Recruitment of Multifidus Muscles, Reduces Disability Our understanding of the elusive subluxation and the effects of spinal 
manipulation has gradually evolved as the science of articular 
neurology, biomechanics, and motor programming has matured. Chiro Noir Redux It is the tail end of the fifth decade of the 21st century. Health care in the United States is controlled by huge international corporations. Doctors of all kinds must work for one of them or risk professional alienation and financial ruin. Relieving the Diseases Associated with Aging Michael Morgan, LMT, CST-D, witnessed the harsh effects of Alzheimer's 
firsthand and he couldn't forget. Association Looking for New Members The National Association of Nurse Massage Therapists (NANMT) is looking 
for a few good members, according to new Board President, Judy Dean, RN,
 DS, NCBMB, CHt. Build Your Practice by Building Relationships In the age of cyberspace information overload and continuing-education 
seminars on any topic you can imagine, is it any wonder we can stay 
focused? In our world of instant gratification, our attention spans are 
becoming shorter by the minute. Traditional Hawaiian Healing Arts Lomilomi, sometimes called simply lomi, is the bodywork component of traditional Hawaiian healing arts and it has been used in the Hawaiian Islands for centuries. Freeing the Heart, Part III: Elongating the Esophagus The premise asserted in the first two articles of this series is that 
physically freeing the space around the heart can make a significant 
contribution to the quality of life for your clients and may reduce the 
chronic component of their ongoing somatic difficulties. News in Brief Northwestern Research Keeps Making News; Chiropractic Patient Names Palmer College in Will; Logan Announces New Staff Appointments, Promotions; Kentuckiana Marks 10-Year Anniversary of Exec. Director. To report inappropriate ads, click here . Archives News Current Issue Previous Issues Previous Polls Advertising Advertiser Resource Center Marketing Resource Center Editorial Editorial Resource Center Just For Students Acupuncture Schools Free Positions Wanted Posting Where To Practice? Important Links Editorial Topics Link To Us Acupuncture Links The ABCs of TCM & Acupuncture Herbs & Botanicals Vitamins, Minerals and Dietary Supplements Media Guide Acupuncture Today Media Guide Member Services Classified Advertising Acupuncture Calendar Acupuncture Directory Discussion Forum Reader Services Receive The Print Publication Update Your Mailing Address Other Links About Us Contact Us Meet The Staff News Update Subscribe Unsubscribe Update E-mail Current Issue Deals & Events Subscribe Unsubscribe Current Issue To Your Health Subscribe Unsubscribe Update E-mail Current Issue Archives Policies Privacy Policy User Agreement Other MPA Media Sites Toyourhealth.com Chiroweb.com Chirofind.com Dynamicchiropractic.com Dynamicchiropractic.ca DCPracticeINSIGHTS.com Massagetoday.com Nutritionalwellness.com Naturopathydigest.com Chiropracticresearchreview.com 