
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 23:33:38 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.5
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 23:33:38 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
P3P: CP="NON CURa ADMa DEVa TAIa CONi OUR DELa BUS IND PHY ONL UNI PUR COM NAV DEM STA"
Set-Cookie: xid=ffd5ced6810ef0658a725108e69fb98f; path=/; domain=www.feedthemachine.com; httponly
Set-Cookie: xid=ffd5ced6810ef0658a725108e69fb98f; path=/; domain=www.feedthemachine.com; httponly
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

Elete Water Pure Electrolyte 8oz Refill bottle - Feed The Machine SEARCH Advanced search Categories Pre Workout During Workout Post Workout Daily Proteins Carbohydrates Amino Acids Energy Boost Electrolytes VO2Max Multi Vitamins Antioxidants Joint Health Specialty Bars Gels Energy Chews Accessories ***CLEARANCE*** Manufacturers FTM Brand Nuun First Endurance Carbo Pro Hammer Nutrition DBM Nutrition (Kona) Mera Pharmaceuticals Honey Stinger Eload Sports Nutrition GU Energy NEHP (FLUID) PacificHealth Labs PureFit Clif Bar SaltStick SportLegs Hydrapak Vespa Power Elete Water Bonk Breaker Other manufacturers... Special Gift certificates Help Contact us Privacy statement Terms & Conditions Feed The Machine :: During Workout :: Elete Water Pure Electrolyte 8oz Refill bottle Elete Water Pure Electrolyte 8oz Refill bottle Details Manufacturer Elete Water SKU EW8ozBOT Quantity in stock 3 item(s) available Weight 0.60 lbs Retail price: $14.98 Price: $14.98 VIP Membership VIP: $12.73 Become a VIP Member and receive a big discounts on most products in your orders!  It's easy! CLICK HERE FOR MORE INFO. Options Quantity 1 2 3 Add to cart Description Feed The Machine's point of View: What we like about Elete is the simplicity of the product, it’s natural ingredients, and it’s delivery system. Elete offers electrolytes with nothing else added in a liquid form. Just add a serving to your water bottle and you’re ready to go. If you just want electrolytes with no added taste, Elete is the way to go, especially if you don’t like carrying pills and keeping track of them while training or racing. Elete's product information: HYDRATION = WATER + ELECTROLYTES + DELIVERY SYSTEM Electrolytes are essential to our health. They help our body absorb water and control fluid balance. Although drinking water during exercise is critical to avoid dehydration, drinking plain water that is not fortified with electrolytes can lead to a serious condition called hyponatremia. Hyponatremia occurs when blood sodium concentration falls to extremely low levels, which can result in seizures, coma, and death. Electrolytes not only prevent dehydration, but they're critical to muscle function, nerve conduction, energy production and flow, and heart function. For the endurance athlete, a major benefit of electrolytes is that they help prevent muscle cramps, which can impede performance. Athletes must be careful to avoid a shortage of electrolytes during training: Loss of electrolytes through sweat must be replaced, but most sports drink and electrolyte replacement supplements, powders, and gels ignore the fact that the body also uses an additional balance of minerals beyond sodium. One essential electrolyte is magnesium, which is necessary for energy production, muscle contraction, cardiovascular and respiratory function. Another important reason athletes need to supplement with a balance of electrolytes is that if minerals (electrolytes) become depleted, negative effects like cramping occur. Magnesium—not sodium—can help prevent muscle cramps. Sweat contains more than sodium and potassium: While sodium and potassium are two important elements in sweat, they are not the only ones. Sweat also contains magnesium, chloride, and other trace minerals. It is better to replace electrolytes throughout activity: The best way to replace electrolytes is in moderated quantities every time you drink, not in short, concentrated bursts. Sugar-laden sports drinks can be overwhelming: While carbohydrates are necessary for the body to manufacture energy, drinking sugar in every gulp fatigues the palette, causes nausea, and, in some instances, provides more calories than is necessary. Did you know that a serving of most sports drinks contains as much sugar as Kool-Aid? elete™ is the only electrolyte fully compatible with hydration systems: Unlike sports drinks or electrolyte-replacement powders or gels, elete™ can be added to your hydration system without negatively affecting the integrity of the bladder, hose, or valve. In addition, elete™ requires no more cleanup for your pack than plain water. Your cart Cart is empty View cart Orders history Returns Bonuses Authentication Username Password Log in Register Recover password If Javascript is disabled in your browser click here Bookmarks Bookmark This Page! Copyright © 2004-2012 Feed The Machine Feed the Machine is about helping the endurance athlete achieve extreme performance. Marathons, Ironman, Cycling, Triathlons, Running, Swimming, or whatever your xtreme endurance sport, we have the optimum nutrician products to help you achieve the next level. Sportsnutrition stores are not all the same. We count on the very best endurance sports nutrition products for woman and men as we race - trust our experienced team as your total sports nutrition source. Whether you are looking for a sports nutrition supplement, energy gel, protein barsl, sports energy drink, muscle supplement, or other products from the best in sports nutrition, count on us. We carry the best including Amino Vital, champion nutrition, cytosport, extran, peak bar, hammer nutrition, cytosport muscle milk, ecaps, carb boom, first endurance, Kona endurance, kona endurance pro, optygen, optygen hp, astafactor, cytosport cytogainer, cytosport cytomax, champion nutrition ultramet, cytosport whey, sportquest, and athlete octane. Thanks for making Feed the