
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 09 Apr 2012 02:32:44 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
Last-Modified: Sun, 08 Apr 2012 22:17:27 GMT
ETag: "2e9ef98ac5d80739f1a1d5b72e07a6d8"
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

How to Improve Digestive Tract Health Welcome Natural Health Shop Stretching & Foam Rolling Holistic Audio Programs Home Receive Updates Via Health Concerns Health Warnings Natural Health Solutions Healthy Eating Resources Emotional Health and Well-Being Personal and Environmental Wellness Children's Health Issues Healthy Pregnancy Stretching and Foam Rolling Natural Health Care Easy Healthy Recipes Healthy Beverages Healthy Desserts Healthy Dressings Healthy Meals Healthy Salads Healthy Soups Full Body Cleanse Recipes Videos Music & Singing for Health Must-See Videos Dr. Ben Kim's Radio Show How to Improve Digestive Tract Health Posted By Dr. Ben Kim Natural Health Solutions This post offers a collection of dietary and lifestyle guidelines that I have found to be helpful to people looking to overcome ulcerative colitis and other inflammatory bowel conditions. Because these guidelines are designed to take burden off of the gastrointestinal tract, following them can also help relieve common symptoms of indigestion, including bloating, excessive gas production, acid reflux, constipation, and diarrhea. Ulcerative colitis is a condition that is characterized by inflammation in the colon. The most common symptoms of ulcerative colitis are: Abdominal cramping and pain that usually go away after having a bowel movement. Diarrhea, sometimes with blood and mucus. Weight loss. A painful spasm of the anal sphincter that is accompanied by a strong desire to have a bowel movement, but that results in the passing of little to no fecal matter. Some people with advanced cases of ulcerative colitis can have as many as forty to fifty episodes of diarrhea a day. If the pathological process of ulcerative colitis goes unabated, sometimes, there is little choice but to surgically remove portions of the colon. Regrettably, most conventional practitioners treat ulcerative colitis with immunosuppressive drugs like prednisone. While these drugs can decrease symptoms in the short term, they often lead to long term worsening of overall health due to numerous negative effects produced by these drugs. What follows are guidelines that I have found to be helpful to people looking to address ulcerative colitis via natural means: 1. Take a high quality source of friendly bacteria every day. A study published in the July 2005 edition of the American Journal of Gastroenteritis found that giving a probiotic mixture to people with mild to moderate cases of ulcerative colitis who had not responded to conventional therapy produced a 77% remission/response rate with no adverse effects. Three sources of friendly bacteria that I can recommend are Synbiotic Plus , Dr. Ohhira's professional grade probiotic and our super green food formula . You can also obtain friendly bacteria from traditionally fermented foods like sauerkraut and kim chi . I have found that fermented dairy products such as kefir and yogurt do not tend to produce the same positive results that fermented plant products do. This is most likely because people with ulcerative colitis do not have much capacity to efficiently digest animal protein, even if the animal protein in question is from a clean and organic source. This is not to say that people with ulcerative colitis can never have fermented dairy products. I just don't recommend them early in the recovery process. 2. Be careful not to eat a lot of raw plant foods, especially during flare-ups. In the midst of a flare-up, it is best to eat mainly soft, cooked plant foods, the best ones being steamed zucchini, porridge made with white rice , and potato-based soups. What about those folks who point to white rice being a highly refined food and therefore not a healthy food choice?  In theory, white rice is inferior to fresh vegetables and whole grains that are minimally processed.  But sometimes, one has to recognize that theory doesn't apply to every circumstance, and because I have experienced good results firsthand in feeding well cooked white rice to folks who were having dozens of bouts of bloody diarrhea a day while eating nothing but fresh vegetables, I stand behind this recommendation with confidence. For some people, even small amounts of raw plant foods (including raw vegetable juices and green food powders) can increase the intensity and frequency of their symptoms. Raw plant foods and their juices can be added back into the diet on a gradual basis once a flare-up has subsided. 3. Ensure adequate vitamin D status. Ulcerative colitis is strongly associated with immune system dysfunction. An adequate blood level of Vitamin D is necessary to optimally support a healthy immune system. Vitamin D can be obtained from healthy exposure to the sun. It can also be obtained from healthy food sources such as wild salmon, organic eggs, a high quality source of cod liver oil , and sardines. For comprehensive guidance on how to make sure that you are getting enough vitamin D, click here: How To Make Sure That You Are Getting Enough Vitamin D 4. Avoid fats and oils that are high in omega-6 fatty acids. Fats and oils that are high in omega-6 fatty acids can contribute to inflammation throughout the body, including in the colon. The worst offenders are oils made out of the following plants: safflower, corn, cottonseed, and sunflower. Sesame oil and peanut oil are also high in omega-6 fatty acids and should be used sparingly by those with inflammatory bowel conditions. 5. Regularly eat foods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids. A study performed at the Cleveland Clinic found that animal-based omega-3 fatty acids can help people recover from inflammatory bowel conditions, including ulcerative colitis. Although some organic flesh meats are excellent sources of omega-3 fatty acids, I have found that many people with ulcerative colitis - especially those in the midst of a flare-up - cannot tolerate cooked flesh meats. The best source of animal-based omega-3 fatty acids that I know of is cod liver oil.  High quality cod liver oil is an excellent source of two omega-3 fatty acids - DHA and EPA - that can help decrease inflammation throughout the body, and is typically well tolerated by people with ulcerative colitis. I have found that it is best for people with ulcerative colitis to take approximately one teaspoon per 50 pounds of body weight per day, before or with a meal. Raw wild salmon and raw organic eggs are also good sources of omega-3 fatty acids and are surprisingly well tolerated by people with ulcerative colitis. 6. Minimize intake of sugar and refined carbohydrates. Sugar and refined carbohydrates can cause harmful changes to the balance of bacteria that live in the digestive tract. Put another way, regularly eating sugar and refined carbohydrates can diminish the benefits of ingesting friendly bacteria, which we have already identified as an essential key to addressing ulcerative colitis through natural means. Regular consumption of sugar and refined carbohydrates can also create a chronically elevated blood insulin level, which can contribute to inflammation throughout the body, including within the digestive tract. 7. Most importantly, give careful consideration to chronic emotional stressors. The digestive tract is supplied by its own nervous system, called the enteric nervous system . The enteric nervous system is intimately interconnected with the central nervous system, an association that makes perfect sense given that the two nervous systems share a common origin - a piece of tissue that develops in a growing embryo called the neural crest. The relationship between the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system is such that emotional stress exacts a heavy toll on the digestive tract. If you haven't already done so, you can learn more about the ways in which emotional stressors affect human health in my article on natural ways to reduce stress . The one common link between every person who has asked me for help with ulcerative colitis is that all of them could clearly identify one or more emotional stressors that either triggered the onset of their ulcerative colitis, or that was contributing to their symptoms in an obvious way. Emotional stress is such a significant contributor to the pathological process of ulcerative colitis that if I developed a moderate to advanced case of ulcerative colitis, one of the first steps that I would take would be to arrange to take time off from work so that I could give my mind and body an opportunity to rest and return to a state of harmony. I'm certain that to not take this step would be to markedly reduce my chances of experiencing a full recovery. For part two of this look at ulcerative colitis where I review a detailed food and lifestyle plan that can be used to apply the principles outlined in this article, click here: Ulcerative Colitis Diet Plan . To receive newly published articles and recipes like this one, stay in touch with us via Article Tools Email Print Comment Alter Text Size Please Rate This Select rating Cancel rating Not useful Fair Good Quite good Extremely useful Your rating: None Average: 4.7 ( 153 votes) Most E-mailed Why Drinking Too Much Water Is Dangerous What Most Doctors Won't Tell You About Cholesterol What Most Doctors Won't Tell You About Colds and Flus How to Have Healthy Bowel Movements Public Exposure: DNA, Democracy and the Wireless Revolution - A Must-See Documentary on the Dangers of Cell Phone Use Highest Rated Where's My Bag? 4.87059 Soup for Healthy Bones and Teeth 4.833335 The Secret History of the War on Cancer 4.82993 12 Cancer-Causing Substances in the Workplace and Community 4.80435 What to Eat - Principles of Healthy Eating 4.723575 Related Posts Friendly bacteria American Journal of Gastroenteritis Synbiotic Plus Dr. Ohhira's professional grade probiotic Super green food formula infection Submitted by Anonymous on September 16, 2009 - 16:21. After longtime suffering, I discovered pure pineapple juice.  I have been able to eat all kinds of foods since I drink the juice before or along with my food.  I challenge myself to make sure it really works by eating foods that would usually have me in agony, and it has really worked. I can't say that I am completely pain free, but when I do feel it, it is a dull pain and not constant and unbearable. » reply Ulcerative Colitis, IBD, Crohn's, etc. Submitted by Rebecca Cody on September 17, 2009 - 05:58. While most of the advice in this article is helpful, there is one major flaw. People with serious intestinal inflammation have lost the very tips of the little villi - the absorptive finger-like projections that line the intestine. This tip end is required to digest sugar and all starches, including rice, potatoes, all grains, etc. By removing all sugar (honey is OK because it is a monosaccharide, not a disaccharide or polysaccharide) and starches from the diet and eating healthy cooked vegetables, fruits, meats and fats, these people heal, usually within a year or two. However, they usually start feeling much better and having normal bowel movements quickly. The diet which seems to heal the gut most readily and quickly is the Specific Carbohydrate Diet, described in the book and website, Breaking the Vicious Cycle by Elaine Gottschall. Natasha Campbell-McBride uses this diet, with some modifications, to heal people with autism, ADD/ADHD, schizophrenia, dyslexia, dyspraxia and depression. Even postpartum psychosis responds to this diet. She describes this in her book, Gut and Psychology Syndrome. Her website is www.GAPS.com . Both use good probiotics as well and one or two other supplements, probably including cod liver oil for vitamins A and D in their natural forms. » reply Dear Dr. Kim Submitted by Christina on September 17, 2009 - 07:20. Dear Dr. Kim , congratulations not only for this extremely usefull article but for the hole site . It is a pity that me & my family live in such a long distance from the place u live . We 'd be your best customers . Please continue the wonderful job u 're doing by informing us with so many usefull infortmation concerning our physical & mental health . Being so detailed , not only we understand better the causes of our problems but we also educate further ourselves . Unfortunately here in Greece doctors don't apply preventive medicine but only care when crises has risen & a medical condition is out of control & has to be treated immediately with drugs . They only care for the bonuses from the pharmaceutical companies ........ With my best regards for u & your family Christina - Konstantinos - Nickolas » reply improving digestive tract Submitted by Kim Bakker on January 20, 2012 - 18:06. What you are suggesting sure sounds like the GAPS diet. The key to the diet is first healing and sealing the intestines. Your advice goes right along with this diet. My husband who is Celiac has still struggled with his health and the gluten free diet is not enough. As a matter of fact the typical gf diet is terrible with starches that feed bad bacteria. If anyone is struggling with intestinal issues- this is the way to go. Thanks for putting it out there Dr. Kim » reply Tips for common digestive problems Submitted by Thomas Mereness on January 21, 2012 - 22:44. Dr Ben, This was an excellent article!  I arrived at nearly identical  conclusions about food choices that were better or worse for my ulcerative colitis . . . but it took me years of experimenting to do it!  Also, I went to see a doctor (once) about treatment, the Dr told me that "diet will not affect the course of your uncerative colitis" and that I MUST take a steroidal anti inflammtory medicine!  Fortunately I ignored him and proceeded on my own. Thank you for publishing your outstanding newsletter! Best Regards, Tom Mereness » reply Thought of the Moment Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; the most massive characters are seared with scars. - Kahlil Gibran Previous Thoughts... Stay in Touch via Facebook New Natural Health Resources Most Popular Natural Health Tools Recent comments Thank you for sharing your Thank you for sharing your pain, and the joy of rising above it. We are all shaped by our... wendy commented on: How to Protect Your Health Against Toxic Behavior Bible, Buddhism, and Tracey Hi Jen,
For some reason, I opened my Bible, which has been sitting on a shelf for a long time, and... Marianne commented on: How to Protect Your Health Against Toxic Behavior i agree with you on the disagree article. me and my sister were spanked when we were children for what we did wrong and we grew up to be just... Anonymous commented on: Should Parents Spank Their Children? Regarding THC as a neurotoxin and other chronic use concerns Hello,
May I first say, I really appreciate this website and the work you've done to educate those... Keith Helms commented on: Ten Most Dangerous Drugs also No mention of magnesium, deficiency of which is rather common and can cause constipation. Getting... Anonymous commented on: How to Have Healthy Bowel Movements Receive Updates Plus Occasional Shockers Dr. Ben Kim's Newsletter To receive free tips on how to experience your best health, I invite you to join our natural health community by subscribing to my free e-newsletter: Email: Your e-mail address is kept private and you can unsubscribe anytime. More Natural Health Resources Specialty Formulas Proteolytic Enzymes Synbiotic Plus - Intestinal Yeast Cleansing Formula Professional Grade Nutritional Supplements Comprehensive Multi Homocysteine Care Dr. Ohhira's Probiotics 12 Plus Professional Line Vitamin D-3 Whole Food Vitamin C Premium CoQ10 Whole Food Multi for Kids Professional Grade Target Formulas Adrenal Refresh Bone Support Prostate Support Quercetin Vision Support Joint Support Raw Organic Superfood Powders Dr. Ben Kim's Greens Dr. Ben Kim's Greens in Capsules Vitamin C Powder - Acerola Cherry Powder 5 Super Greens Chocolate Powder Holistic Audio Programs Your Best Weight and Health EarthRain:  Drop Into Deep Relaxation Soft Ocean Dreamland:  A Groundbreaking Natural Sleep Aid Inner Focus:  For Optimal Mental Focus Premium Coconut Products Premium Virgin Coconut Oil Premium Coconut Milk Powder Raw Organic Coconut Butter Top Grade Dried Coconut Raw Organic Protein Powders Hemp Protein Powder Hemp, Cacao & Maca Blend Organically Grown Whole Foods Authentic Tibetan Goji Berries Raw Chocolate Nibs and Powder Raw Organic Cashews Premium Turkish Mulberries Truly Raw Honey Natural Personal Care Products Pure Aloe Vera Gel Natural Sunscreen Lotion Natural Anti-Bug Spray Dr. Ohhira's Probiotic Soap Tooth Soap:  An All-Natural Tooth and Gum Cleaner Organic Moisturizing Lotion for Combination or Oily Skin Organic Mediterranean Face Wash Organic Moisturizing Lotion for Extra Dry Skin Natural Health Tools Foam Roller (Premium EVA, 18" by 6") Stretching and Foam Rolling DVD Champion Juicer L'EQUIP XL Pulp Ejector Juicer Vita-Mix Blender TheraCane Self Massaging Tool Laidback Laptop Table Carlson Products Carlson Cod Liver Oil Gel Capsules Carlson Elite Omega-3 Gems Carlson Vitamin D Drops 1000 IU Carlson Cod Liver Oil Carlson Fish Oil Books & Special Reports Experience Your Best Health Maximize Your Height Eight Essential Strategies for Academic Success Fundamentals of Getting Healthy Naturally Ten Main Causes of Disease and Dysfunction How to Keep Your Colon Clean and Healthy Full Body Cleanse Guide to Using Whole Food Vitamins and Minerals to Support Your Health The Truth About Alkalizing Your Blood Artisana Organic Butters Cashini (Peanut Butter Alternative) Macadamia Cashew Butter Organic Almond Butter Organic Cashew Butter Organic Pecan Butter Organic Tahini Organic Walnut Butter Terms of Use Recommended Health Tools Contact Operation Shanti Stretching & Foam Rolling Archive The contents of this website are the opinions of Dr. Ben Kim unless otherwise noted. The information on this website is not intended as personalized medical advice and is not intended to replace the relationship that you have with your primary care provider. Any decisions you make with regard to your daily choices and medical treatments shoul