
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 02:39:40 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pertussis - what is, symptoms and treatment | Health Dictionary Beltina.org Encyclopedia Promotion Minerals Vitamins Dietary supplement Herbs and medical plants Diseases and symptoms Health Dictionary Beltina.org Infectious Diseases Pertussis - what is, symptoms and treatment Pertussis - what is, symptoms and treatment What is Pertussis An illness resulting from INFECTION with the VIRUS Bordetella pertussis. Pertussis is among the childhood diseases for which routine IMMUNIZATION is the standard of care in the United States. The hallmark of the illness is a rapid, violent cough that causes the person to make a “whooping” sound when trying to breathe through the coughing, hence the common term whooping cough. The cough can be severe enough to prevent BREATHING. Pertussis was once a leading cause of death among children under age 5. Though immunization has dramatically reduced infection, pertussis may still be fatal in very young children and very old adults. IMMUNITY, either natural (following infection and illness) or via VACCINE, lasts about 12 years. Symptoms of Pertussis The unmistakable cough is the primary symptom and begins about seven days after exposure. In untreated pertussis, the cough worsens rapidly and may continue for as long as eight weeks. Many people also experience VOMITING with the coughing. The doctor often makes the diagnosis on the basis of the cough, though cultures taken from the MOUTH and NOSE may provide confirmation. Cultures are positive in about 80 percent of people. Pertussis Treatment Treatment in the early stages of pertussis is ANTIBIOTIC MEDICATIONS , typically erythromycin or trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ). The further into the course of illness, the less effective antibiotics become, however. The infection causes the nasal passages, THROAT, bronchi, and bronchioles to ooze fluid that clogs the airways; the cough is the body’s attempt to remove the fluid to permit free breathing. A profusely runny nose (rhinorrhea) is the earliest symptom of pertussis though often is perceived as a cold until the cough begins. Antibiotic therapy can substantially shorten the course and lessen the severity of illness. Most people recover fully with appropriate treatment, particularly when treatment begins early. See also CHILDHOOD DISEASES; DIPHTHERIA; PREVENTIVE HEALTH CARE AND IMMUNIZATION . Open  discussion  on the topic Pertussis - what is, symptoms and treatment No comments found Name/Nick: Title: Email: (will not  be published) Please enter the code in the following field only title fulltext Infectious Diseases Adenovirus Amebiasis Anthrax - what is, symptoms Antibiotic medications Antifungal medications Antiviral medications Babesiosis (Babesia microti) Bacteria definition Botulism - what is, symptoms Campylobacteriosis Candidiasis / Candida Carrier (infection) Chickenpox Chlamydia Cholera disease - treatment Coccidioidomycosis Colds symptoms and treatment Cryptococcosis / Cryptococcus Cryptosporidiosis Cyclosporiasis / Cyclospora Cytomegalovirus / CMV virus Diphtheria - what is Encephalitis (virus) Epstein-Barr virus Escherichia (E) coli infection Fever Foodborne illnesses symptoms Fungus Genital herpes Giardiasis / Giardia intestinalis Gonorrhea in women and men Hantavirus pulmonary Hemorrhagic fevers Herpes simplex virus Herpes zoster treatment Histoplasmosis HIV / AIDS virus / disease Human ehrlichiosis / ehrlichia Human papillomavirus (HPV) Immunization Incubation period Infection definition Influenza virus - symptoms Listeriosis / Bacteria Listeria Lyme disease Malaria - symptoms, treatment Measles virus Meningitis Microbe Mononucleosis - infectious Mumps virus - symptoms Necrotizing fasciitis Normal flora Nosocomial infections Opportunistic infection Parasite Pathogen definition Pertussis Pneumococcal pneumonia Prion definition and what is Prodrome define Protozoa definition Rabies virus Rocky Mountain spotted fever Rubella virus salmonellosis / Salmonella SARS virus Scarlet fever Septicemia - symptoms Shigellosis / Shigella bacteria Smallpox virus Sneeze/cough etiquette Strep throat - symptoms Syphilis Toxic shock syndrome Toxoplasmosis Transmission modes Trichomoniasis Tuberculosis Typhoid fever Virus (infection) definition Waterborne illnesses Top articles on health Penis - definition, function Gonorrhea in women and men Nephron function Balanitis infection, treatment Lung Cancer Scrotum define and function Chromosome define, function Herpes zoster treatment Hyperlipidemia symptoms Cardiac Cycle - define, phases lasty.info | beltina.org | Link Partners | Golf Courses | Travel to Prague | Celebrity pictures rdirectory.net Web Directory Web Directory Free web directory | Directory Submission WebDirectory Add Link | Best Sites UK | DirectoryFir