<http://www.theguanaco.com/?p=836>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Herbs for Diabetes - a treatment based on Ayurvedic herbs to lower blood sugar | theguanaco theguanaco Information about diseases symptoms and treatment Skip to content Start About RSS Gallery Herbs for Diabetes – a treatment based on Ayurvedic herbs to lower blood sugar By admin on March 25, 2012 Ayurveda recommends herbs to be beneficial in controlling sugar levels in the blood. In this article, you will find useful herbs to promote insulin production, or in improving the ability of insulin to lower blood sugar. Herbs useful in diabetes Some useful plants that are beneficial in controlling diabetes. Butea leaves Butea leaves have anti-diabetic properties. Are useful in glucosuria, characterized by the presence of a large amount of glucose in urine. The leaves can be chewed or taken as an infusion or decoction. Cinnamon Cinnamon is strong stimulator of insulin activity and therefore extremely useful in the treatment of diabetes. A little cinnamon sprinkled on any food, can stimulate insulin activity. Helps keep blood sugar under control. Also cinnamon, other spices and herbs that are useful in treating diabetes include cloves, turmeric and bay leaves. Of these cinnamon is the most powerful. Curry leaves Curry leaves possess the qualities of a herbal tonic and nutritional value are excellent for diabetics. Eat fresh curry leaves 10 every adult in the morning for three months is said to prevent diabetes a hereditary predisposition. Thinning properties of these leaves are beneficial in the treatment of diabetes due to obesity. The leaves can be turned into chutney or curry leaf juice mixed in buttermilk. Indian gooseberry Indian gooseberry (LBA) is an ideal food for diabetes drugs. A tablespoon of its juice, mixed with a cup of fresh bitter gourd juice, taken daily for two months, stimulates the secretion of natural insulin. It reduces the level of blood sugar in diabetics. Dietary restrictions should be strictly observed, while following this pattern. It also prevents the occurrence of ocular complications in diabetics. Sweet potato leaves Sweet potato leaves are slightly bitter in taste, and are the fight against diabetes. They are considered beneficial in lowering blood sugar. About 60 g of fresh leaves or 30 g of dried sweet potatoes and 100 g or 12 g of dried gourd skin fresh skin of ash should be cut into small pieces and boiled in water. This decoction should be taken as a tea for diabetics to obtain beneficial results. Cassia Tenner Cassia Tenner helps reduce blood sugar and is therefore beneficial in the treatment of diabetes. A decoction of the whole plant or buds are used to treat this disease. The ground powder with honey is equally effective. Posted in Supplements Tagged Ayurvedic , blood , Herbs , herbs for diabetes , ower , sugar « previous post Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Recent Posts Herbs for Diabetes – a treatment based on Ayurvedic herbs to lower blood sugar Diabetes Natural Treatment – Herbs for Diabetes How herbs for diabetes help reduce blood sugar The advantages of Chinese medicine for cancer Herbs for Cancer – Use a herbal multivitamin to prevent cancer growth and disease A blood test for food allergies Herbal medicine for cervical cancer Solve your health problems and allergies to cats, and save money, too! Allergies to children Stop Arthritis Pain Text Links Allegra Blogroll appetite suppressants MRI Scans Levitra Efectos Secundarios Viagra Finish Well Fitness Plugins Search for: Categories Allergies Anxiety Arthritis Back pain Cancer Cholesterol Critical care Detoxification Diabetes Eyes vision Supplements Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 Tags adults adultsBack allergic to chlorine allergies Allergies to children allergy allergy eczema alleviate Alzheimer's Anti Anxiety Diet Antioxidants Anxiety anxiety attacks Anxiety disorders anxiety reduction techniques artery arthritis Arthritis Pain asthma and allergies back Back Pain back pain effectively Body brain cancer brain tumor cancer Care physicians chemotherapy Cholesterol Critical Care Detox Detoxification Diabetes Disease doctor HDL heart disease herbal herbs for diabetes High cholesterol intensive care Kidney medicine pain Treatment Copyright © 