
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 00:29:03 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 23:29:03 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dental Health About.com Health Dental Care Dental Care Search Dentistry Conditions Prevention and Treatment Children's Dental Care 101 Filed In: Children's Dentistry Dental Health Information about good dental health for children including brushing, flossing, visits to the dentist and more. Children's Dental and Oral Healthcare Basics Understanding the basics of children's dental and oral healthcare needs is the first step in helping your child establish healthy oral habits at an early age. Which Toothbrush is Really  Better - Manual or Electric? Describes which toothbrush is better - manual or electric and benefits of both toothbrushes. Listerine Agent Cool Blue - Product Review This review of Agent Cool Blue plaque detecting rinse by Listerine will help you decide whether or not this product is worth buying. National Children’s Dental Health Month Helpful dental information, tooth brushing charts, activities, photos and more for National Dental Health Month. Mouthguards and Sports - Are Mouthguards Really Necessary? Mouthguards can offer superior protection against dental related injuries. Find out how to choose and take care of a dental mouthguard. When Should I Take My Child to the Dentist for the Fisrt Time? Find out when you should take your child to the dentist for the first time. 10  Fun Alternatives to Halloween Candy If you want to give out something different this year, check out these 10 fun alternatives to Halloween candy. How to Brush Children's Teeth This step by step guide with pictures shows you the proper way to brush your children's teeth. How Often Should I Get a Dental Check Up and Cleaning? Find out how often your child should visit the dentist for a check up and cleaning. How Often Should I Brush My Teeth? Find out how often you should brush your teeth to maintain good dental health. How Often Should I Floss My Teeth? Learn how often to floss your teeth and why it is important for good dental health. What is Fluoride? Learn what fluoride is and how it can help to prevent cavities. How Often Should I Change My Toothbrush? Provides a detailed answer on how often and why it's important to change your toothbrush. What are Dental Sealants? Learn how dental sealants can protect your child from cavities. What is Fluoride? Learn what fluoride is and how it helps to prevent cavities. How to Avoid & Break Children's Bad Dental Habits Learn about children's bad dental habits and how to break them or avoid them. What Causes Bad Breath? Learn what causes bad breath and how to prevent and treat it. Top 10 Reasons to Have a Dental Cleaning Good oral hygiene is important, not only for looks, but for general health as well. 10 Facts That Every Dental Patient Should Know These dental facts will help you learn how to prevent dental problems from happening to you. What is an Orthodontist? Describes what an orthodontist is and what education is required to be an orthodontist. Tips for Choosing the Right Dental Products These tips can help you decide which dental products are important. How To Find an Orthodontist If you need to choose a dental specialist for braces or other orthodontic treatment, follow these 10 tips for choosing the right orthodontist for your needs and for the needs of your family. Reach Access Daily Flosser Dental product review of the Reach Access Daily Flosser and what makes it different from regular dental floss. Sonicare Advance 4700 Electric Toothbrush Review Provides a detailed dental product review of the Sonicare Advance 4700 electric toothbrush. The IntelliClean System from Sonicare and Crest The IntelliClean System from Sonicare and Crest is a rechargeable toothbrush that actually dispenses toothpaste while you brush! Find out the benefits of this amazing product. Brushing on the Go These cool dental products allow you to clean your teeth anytime, anywhere. Dental Health Guide for Children Information about when to take your child to the dentist, what kind of toothpaste is best, when to start brushing and more. Teething - Complete Information About Teething Find out when babies start to teeth, what the signs are, which teeth usually come first and how you comfort your baby during the teething process. Dental Care Basics Good reasons to start practicing oral hygiene with your children due to the rising cost of dentistry First Visit to the Dentist Poll When was your child's first visit to the dentist? Take this poll offered by Vincent Iannelli, M.D., About.com guide to pediatrics. Raisins - Health Food or Junk Food? Are raisins good for your teeth or can they contribute to cavities? I've always thought of raisins as being healthy, but are they? Vincent Iannelli, M.D., offers some interesting insight about this. Dental Plaque Identification at Home You can check your teeth or have your children check theirs for plaque at home using disclosing tablets. Children's Dentistry FAQ's Dr. Keith Coe, a pediatric dentist in Texas, provides very informative answers to frequently asked questions about children's dentistry. Taking Care of Your Teeth and Mouth Marian Eure, our Guide to Senior Health, offers some wonderful tips on taking care of your teeth and mouth. These tips for all ages can help put you on the right path to good dental health and avoid having dental problems in the future. Dental Health Rocks Preschoolers Teaching preschoolers the importance of good dental health isn't always an easy task. PreschoolRock.com has a great and educational curriculum to help you teach your preschoolers about taking care of their teeth as well as dental activities, projects, songs, games and more! Frequently Asked Questions About Fluoride The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry provides answers to frequently asked questions about fluoride as well as the safety of fluoride. National Museum of Dentistry The National Museum of Dentistry is a place where people of all ages can learn about the history of dentistry as well as the importance of a healthy smile. Fluoridated Water -  Questions and Answers Provides answers to frequently asked questions about fluoridated water. Apply now to guide this site Discuss in our forum Explore Dental Care Must Reads When Your Wisdom Teeth Need Pulling All You Need to Know About Root Canals Parent's Guide to Baby Teeth Tooth Whitening Basics How to Brush Your Teeth Properly Most Popular Canker Sore Treatment Information on Root Canals Fun Dental Activities Brushing Your Teeth The Top Root Canal Myths By Category Basic Dental Care Children's Dentistry Dental Emergencies Dental Procedures Missing and False Teeth Cosmetic Dentistry Orthodontics Choosing a Dentist Dental Insurance Dental Careers Dental Glossary Resources and Reviews Dental Care About.com Health Dental Care Children's Dentistry Dental Health Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.