
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 21:33:15 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
expires: {ts '2012-03-14 14:33:15'}
Content-Language: en-US
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cranberry Ultra - On Sale - WholeHealth.com Home Help Health News My Account Cart items: 0  Total: $0.00 About Whole Health Contact Us Convenience Plan Environmental Initiatives Glossary of Terms Guarantees Monthly Drawing Rules Possible Side Effects Privacy Policy Product Returns Shipping Wholesale Inquiries Health Articles Our Newsletter Newsletter Archives My Account My Convenience Plan My Favorites Cart items: 0  Total: $0.00 Shop By A-Z All Products By Category Shop By Need Allergy Amino Acids Anti-Inflammation Antioxidants Brain / Memory CoEnzyme Q10 Diabetes Diet Aids Digestion Energy Eye Health Heart / Cardio Immunity Joint / Bone Liver Health Men's Health Mental Health Minerals Multivitamins Omega-3's Pet Health Pill Boxes Resveratrol Senior Health Sexual Health Skin Care Sleep Support Sports Nutrition Stress Relief Vitamins Weight Loss Women's Health ON ALL U.S. ORDERS OVER $75.00 SAME DAY SHIPPING; ORDER BY 4:00PM EST ABOUT SSL CERTIFICATES Back Share Cranberry Ultra CB1 IN STOCK - YES What is Cranberry Ultra? Cranberry is the red acidic fruit of the shrubby viburnum of North America and Europe.  A long-standing folk remedy for urinary infection, there is actual science to this use of cranberry. Cranberry contains components that prevent the ability of e-coli and other infectious agents to adhere to the lining of the urethra and bladder. 1,2 Without the ability to adhere, these agents cannot infect. Unfortunately, the sugars present in sweetened cranberry juice may actually harm your immune system, and since unsweetened cranberry juice is so difficult to come by and extremely tart, encapsulated extract is the preferred means for taking cranberry. Why Is Our Cranberry Ultra Better? Our Cranberry Ultra™ product contains a standardized 36:1 cranberry extract with a pH-neutral form of vitamin C, encapsulated in gelatin-free vegetarian capsules. Thirty-six pounds of whole cranberries are used to make just 1 pound of the extract. Our extract contains the whole fruit from US and Canadian grown cranberries where the product is manufactured immediately after harvesting to ensure freshness and potency. Many lesser extracts are made from just the juice and are grown or shipped abroad for processing. The vast majority of cranberry extract contains artificial or natural food coloring to make the bright red color many consumers have come to expect. Our product is completely free of added colorants. Our product is the natural color of cranberry extract:  a deep reddish brown. If your cranberry extract is bright red, be suspicious. Cranberry Ultra™ also contains vitamin C, a powerful antioxidant that supports the immune system. We chose a pH-neutral form of the vitamin that is easy on the stomach and won't acidify your system. The ascorbic acid form of vitamin C can temporarily lower the pH in the body, making your body a more suitable environment for some pathogens. It can also increase the body's need for calcium, if those calcium demands are not met through diet, the body may pull calcium from the bones and teeth, weakening them. Related Articles Acai May Lower Cholesterol & Reduce Atherosclerosis Risk Cranberry Less Effective, But Safer Than Antibiotic Cranberries May Benefit Men's Health Cranberry Nearly as Effective as Antibiotic for UTIs, Fewer Side Effects Cranberries Show Potential Against Esophageal Cancer Cranberry Shows Antiviral Potential Click here for more articles! Cranberry Ultra, (60 capsules) CB1 (30 Day Supply) Retail Buy 1 to 2 Buy 3 to 5 Buy 6 or Convenience Plan $24.95 $9.98 $8.73 $7.48 Buy more... Save more! Quantity: Frequency: Send One Time Only Convenience Plan, Send Every 15 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 20 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 25 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 30 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 40 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 45 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 50 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 60 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 75 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 80 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 90 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 100 Days Convenience Plan, Send Every 120 Days To be sure you never run out of your favorite products, we now offer our exclusive Convenience Plan . This plan guarantees delivery of ourhigh quality products directlyto your door exactly when you need them. Additionally, you receive our lowest price oneach order. It is simple, convenient and free! And, you can change, add to, suspend orcancel shipments at any time! Recent Research on Cranberry Cranberry juice has been used as a traditional folk remedy for urinary tract infections (UTIs) for decades, perhaps centuries. Research has supported this folk remedy and indicated that cranberry can be highly effective in the treatment and prevention of UTIs. Now scientist are closer to understanding how cranberry works. 3 Researchers from Worchester Polytechnic Institute (WTI) in Massachesettes presented a paper at the annual meeting of the American Chemical Society in San Francisco on September 10, 2006, that reveals some insight into how cranberry juice prevents UTIs. It has long been suspected that compounds found in cranberries somehow prevent bacteria from attaching to host cells, thereby preventing the bacteria from becoming established in the body. It had been believed that a group of chemical compounds called proanthocyanidins where the active constituent in cranberries. The researchers studied these proanthocyanidins by culturing E. coli bacteria in varying concentrations of cranberry juice or proanthocyanidins. It turns out that the proanthocyanidins do prevent the bacteria from adhering to host cells, but that's not the full story. The researchers found that the cranberry compounds caused the bacteria to change their shape from rods to spherical which caused the bacteria to alter their cell membrane, changing their behavior. E. Coli are gram-negative bacteria. The changes to their membrane, caused them to begin acting like gram-positive bacteria. None of these behaviors have ever been witnessed in E. coli before. And there was one other significant finding. Bacteria, as individuals cannot make a person sick. There needs to be enough bacteria present to produce enough of the toxins that will make someone sick. Bacteria communicate chemically with one another in order to coordinate their attack. The researchers found that the cranberry juice prevented the chemical communication between the bacteria, thus keeping them from attacking the host with their toxins. All these findings make this very exciting research in the world of science. And, more importantly, they demonstrate that cranberry extract and proanthocyanidins may be exceptionally potent antibacterial agents. The lead researcher Dr. Terri Camesano stated "these results are surprising and intriguing, particularly given the increasing concern about the growing resistance of certain disease-causing bacteria to antibiotics." The greater the concentration of proanthocyanidins, the greater the effects on the bacteria, suggesting that extracts and highly concentrated juices have the greatest health benefits. Label Facts Supplement Facts Serving Size: 2 Capsules Servings per container: 30 Amount Per Serving % Daily Value Vitamin C (as Calcium Ascorbate) 80 mg 133% Cranberry Extract 36:1 1000 mg † †Daily value not established. Other ingredients: Vegetable capsule (HPMC [cellulose], water), microcrystalline cellulose (plant fiber), magnesium stearate (vegetable source), and silicon dioxide. Dietary Restrictions Vegetarian capsule used and a vegetarian formula. References Ahuja S, Kaack B, Roberts J. Loss of fimbrial adhesion with the addition of Vaccinum macrocarpon to the growth medium of P-fimbriated Escherichia coli. J Urol 1998 Feb;159(2):559-62. Allison DG, Cronin MA, Hawker J, Freeman S. Influence of cranberry juice on attachment of Escherichia coli to glass. J Basic Microbiol 2000;40(1):3-6. Camesano, T., Y. Liu, et al. (2006). Compounds in Cranberry Juice Show Promise as Alternatives to Antibiotics for Treating a Host of Human Illnesses. Annual Meeting of American Chemical Society, San Francisco. Aschengrau A, Ozonoff D, Coogan P, Vezina R, Heeren T, Zhang Y. Cancer risk and residential proximity to cranberry cultivation in Massachusetts. Am J Public Health 1996 Sep;86(9):1289-96. Avorn J, Monane M, Gurwitz JH, Glynn RJ, Choodnovskiy I, Lipsitz LA. Reduction of bacteriuria and pyuria after ingestion of cranberry juice. JAMA 1994 Mar 9;271(10):751-4. Bomser J, Madhavi DL, Singletary K, Smith MA. In vitro anticancer activity of fruit extracts from Vaccinium species. Planta Med 1996 Jun;62(3):212-6. Fleet JC. New support for a folk remedy: cranberry juice reduces bacteriuria and pyuria in elderly women. Nutr Rev 1994 May;52(5):168-70. Habash MB, Van der Mei HC, Busscher HJ, Reid G. The effect of water, ascorbic acid, and cranberry derived supplementation on human urine and uropathogen adhesion to silicone rubber. Can J Microbiol 1999 Oct;45(10):691-4. Jackson B, Hicks LE. Effect of cranberry juice on urinary pH in older adults. Home Healthc Nurse 1997 Mar;15(3):198-202. Kinney AB, Blount M. Effect of cranberry juice on urinary pH. Nurs Res 1979 Sep-Oct;28(5):287-90. Nazarko L. Infection control. The therapeutic uses of cranberry juice. Nurs Stand 1995 May 17-23;9(34):33-5. Reid G. Potential preventive strategies and therapies in urinary tract infection. World J Urol 1999 Dec;17(6):359-63. Schmidt DR, Sobota AE. An examination of the anti-adherence activity of cranberry juice on urinary and nonurinary bacterial isolates. Microbios 1988;55(224-225):173-81. Sobota AE. Inhibition of bacterial adherence by cranberry juice: potential use for the treatment of urinary tract infections. J Urol 1984 May;131(5):1013-6. Weiss EI, Lev-Dor R, Kashamn Y, Goldhar J, Sharon N, Ofek I. Inhibiting interspecies coaggregation of plaque bacteria with a cranberry juice constituent.J Am Dent Assoc 1998 Dec;129(12):1719-23. Published erratam appear in J Am Dent Assoc 1999 Jan;130(1):36 and 1999 Mar;130(3):332 Wilson T, Porcari JP, Harbin D. Cranberry extract inhibits low density lipoprotein oxidation. Life Sci 1998;62(24):PL381-6. Antioxidants Immunity top | previous page print this page Affiliate Program Wholesale Inquiries Convenience Plan Site Map Privacy Policy 1-866-381-7693 www.WholeHealth.com This website and these statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Please consult a properly trained medical  practitioner for medical advice. Please read the Terms and Conditions of Using this Site.  All Material at this site Copyright 