<http://wp.me/pOn9i-bS>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cinnamon May Help Control Blood Sugar | Health Articles Member Login Help & Support Join eDiets Discuss your goals with our staff, call 1-800-650-9052 FREE Profile Meal Delivery Plans Online Diet Plans Weight Loss Store Testimonials Articles & Videos Top News Diet Fitness Health Diabetes Heart Health Stress & Emotions Lifestyle Success Stories Recipes Videos Fitness Videos Nutrition Videos Weight Loss Videos eDiets Podcast Astrology Print Bookmark Email Page Health Cinnamon May Help Control Blood Sugar Keywords: cinnamon , Diabetes , dieting , nutrition , pam , studies Add Comment Email Page Bookmark Page Post on Twitter Share on Facebook By Pam Ofstein Director of Nutrition Services With the rate of diabetes increasing,  healthy eating and exercise continue to  play an important role in helping control blood sugar levels. Studies are shedding light on the possible benefits of cinnamon use with food and its effects on lowering blood glucose and blood fat levels . In a recent study by the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2009), the results indicated a relationship between the amount of cinnamon consumed and the decrease in insulin concentrations; cinnamon might be an effective, natural tool added to meals to help maintain adequate blood sugar levels . We feel this spice is a good, natural fit to include in our meal plans. The focus with our Living with Diabetes Meal Plan is healthy meals centered around whole foods like grains, lean proteins and healthy fats with the inclusion of herbs and spices — like cinnamon — to provide delicious taste and added health benefits. We have been on the cutting edge for over two years now by including this little spice in our recipes and snacks. Also, don’t forget cinnamon contains antioxidants to help fight off free radicals that can cause disease. Our Living with Diabetes Plan is the perfect combination of balanced, portion-controlled meals and snacks that taste great and promote healthy living . Try this recipe and many more like it on our Living with Diabetes Plan: Cinnamon-Lime Chicken Fajita Salad Ingredients 4 ounces skinless chicken breast 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon canola oil 2 tablespoons chopped yellow onion 2 tablespoons chopped green bell peppers 1 teaspoon minced garlic 1 teaspoon fresh lime juice 2 tablespoons low fat shredded cheddar cheese 1 small (6”) flour tortilla Instructions Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Season chicken with cinnamon and salt and pepper to taste. Place chicken in oven safe dish and bake for 20 minutes or until juices run clear when pricked. Cool, chop and set aside. In a small sauté pan, heat oil over medium heat and sauté onions, peppers and garlic. Mix in chicken and lime juice until heated. Remove from heat and allow to cool for a few minutes. Place mixture on bed of lettuce and top with shredded cheese; serve with warmed tortilla. If salad dressing is needed, please choose a low-fat version with no more than 60 calories per 2 tablespoons. Nutrition Information Per Serving (Makes 1 Serving) : Calories – 380; Total Fat- 10 g; Saturated Fat – 2 g; Trans Fat – 0 g; Cholesterol – 70 mg; Sodium – 440 mg; Total Carbohydrates – 34 g; Fiber – 4 g; Protein – 36 g Check out these other delicious recipes that use cinnamon! – Cinnamon Apple Waffle Sandwich – Fruit and Nut Breakfast Quinoa Add Comment Email Page Bookmark Page Post on Twitter Share on Facebook You may also enjoy these related articles: Crunchy Cinnamon Oatmeal with Cheese and Raspberries Cinnamon-Apple Waffle Sandwich High Blood Pressure Diet Guidelines Comments are closed. Lose 10 lbs. in 5 Weeks! Find the perfect plan for you... Start FREE eDiets Profile: I want to: Lose 10 lbs. Lose 20 lbs. Lose 30 lbs. Lose 40 lbs. Lose 50+ lbs. Explore eDiets Join eDiets About Us Articles & Videos Newsletter Sign Up Testimonials Weight Loss Store Over 20 Diet Plans eDiets Free Trial eDiets Promo Code Quick Weight Loss Diet Programs Biggest Loser Diet Featured Diet Customer Service Member Login Contact Us Help & FAQ Live Support Community My Account Follow eDiets eDiets Podcast Facebook Twitter You Tube My Space RSS/XML Feed Disclaimer: The information provided is intended for your knowledge only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice or treatment for specific medical conditions. Please talk with your healthcare provider regarding any questions or concerns you may have regarding your condition. eDiets, eDiets.com and DietSmart are registered trademarks of
      eDiets.com, Inc. Copyright © eDiets.com, Inc. 1996- . All rights reserved. Homepage | Privacy Policy | Sit