
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:33:35 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 10:04:39 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Hooping Cough eMedTV Sitemap Diseases Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Diseases Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Diseases Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Diseases Articles Video eMedTV Video Diseases Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Leprosy Whooping Cough SARS Influenza Sarcoidosis Myasthenia Gravis Typhoid Fever Botulism UTI Avian Influenza Scleroderma Graves' Disease Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Hooping Cough Were you looking for information about Whooping Cough ? Hooping cough is a common misspelling of whooping cough. Whooping cough (pertussis) is a bacterial infection of the respiratory system. The bacteria that cause this disease are spread through direct contact with an infected person's respiratory secretions, which can be passed either through the air or by touching a contaminated surface. Whooping cough is typically characterized by severe coughing spells that may end in a "whooping" sound when the person inhales. Treatment may involve antibiotics and supportive care; an immunization is also available to help prevent the condition. (Click Whooping Cough for more information about this condition, including what causes it, how it is diagnosed, and what specific treatments are available. You can also click any of the links in the box to the right for specific information.) Advertisement Written by/reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Advertisement Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t