Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Paediatric complicated pneumonia: Diagnosis and management of empyema Paediatric complicated pneumonia: Diagnosis and management of empyema TK Chibuk, E Cohen, JL Robinson, S   Mahant, DS Hartfield; Canadian Paediatric Society, Hospital  Paediatrics Section Paediatr Child Health 2011;16(7):425-7 Index of  position statements from the Hospital Paediatrics Section The Canadian Paediatric Society
      gives permission to print single copies of this document from our website.
      Visit the index of position
      statements to see which are available as pdf files. For permission to reprint or
      reproduce multiple copies, please submit a detailed request to info@cps.ca . Contents Introduction Clinical presentation Diagnosis Management Choice  of antibiotics Choice  of procedural intervention Prognosis/outcome References ABSTRACT Pneumonia can be complicated by an empyema,  progressing from an exudative effusion, to a fibrinopurulent stage with  loculations, and then organized with a thick fibrinous peel. The predominant  causative organisms are Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphyloccocus aureus (including  methicillin-resistant S aureus ) and Streptococcus pyogenes . Recently, an increased  incidence of paediatric complicated pneumonia has been reported. For diagnostic  imaging, a chest radiograph followed by a chest ultrasound is preferred.  Computed tomography chest scans, with associated radiation, should not be  routinely used. Antibiotic coverage should treat the most common causative  organisms. Additional invasive or surgical management is recommended to reduce  the duration of illness in cases not promptly responding to antibiotics or with  significant respiratory compromise. Choice of management should be guided by  best evidence and local expertise. Video-assisted thorascopic surgery or  insertion of a small-bore percutaneous chest tube with instillation of  fibrinolytics are the best current options. Key Words: Chest tube; Complicated pneumonia;  Empyema; Fibrinolytics; Paediatric Pneumonia  is one of the most common reasons for hospitalization in childhood. Although  most bacterial pneumonia will resolve with treatment of the underlying  infection, some cases will be complicated by the development of an empyema,  defined as intrapleural pus or a moderate to large exudative parapneumonic  effusion (stage 1), which can progress to being loculated (stage 2) with  further development of a fibrinous peel (stage 3). Small parapneumonic  effusions are common and do not require drainage. Although other complications  of pneumonia occur (eg, pulmonary abscess or necrotizing lung), those topics  are beyond the scope of the present document. The most common pathogens in this  setting, in an immunocompetent host, are Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus  aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes (group A streptococcus).  Methicillin-resistant S aureus (MRSA) has emerged as a significant  pathogen (1,2). Recent studies have reported an increased incidence of  paediatric complicated pneumonia (3,4), potentially in part as a result of the  emergence of nonvaccine serotypes of pneumococcus since the introduction of the  heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) (5,6). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Children with  complicated pneumonia will present with many of the symptoms and signs of  uncomplicated pneumonia including tachypnea, fever, cough and respiratory  distress. The patient may present with complicated pneumonia or an initially  uncomplicated pneumonia that is poorly responsive to antibiotics (persistent  fever after 48 h to 72 h of antibiotics without clinical improvement,  persistent or worsening respiratory distress and/or hypoxia, or new clinical  findings of a pleural effusion). Findings on examination that are consistent  with a pleural effusion include decreased breath sounds, decreased chest  expansion and dullness to percussion of the affected side. DIAGNOSIS A chest radiograph  (CXR) should always be the initial imaging modality. Ultrasound provides a  noninvasive, radiation-free modality to confirm the presence of a pleural  effusion suspected on CXR. As well, ultrasound can estimate the size of the  effusion, and differentiate free-flowing effusions from those that are  loculated (7). Chest computed tomography is associated with significant  radiation exposure, and generally does not alter management or predict  outcomes; therefore, it should not be performed routinely (8). However, chest  computed tomography should be considered if an alternative diagnosis, such as  malignancy, is suspected. Repeat CXRs are not necessary unless clinical  deterioration is evident. When drainage of fluid is clinically indicated, the  fluid should be sent for bacterial culture. The yield from pleural fluid  cultures is low because most children have already received antibiotics;  however, molecular tests, such as pneumococcal polymerase chain reaction, may  increase yield if available (9). Blood cultures are positive in only a minority  of cases (approximately 10%), but they should be collected before antibiotics  are administered to potentially guide the choice of antibiotics for children  who are sufficiently ill to be hospitalized for pneumonia (3). Sputum culture  is occasionally helpful if available, but is usually difficult to obtain. MANAGEMENT Management of empyemas  is a controversial area. In addition to antibiotics, procedural interventions  to drain the pleural space are often warranted to expedite resolution of  complicated pneumonias. Conservative management with antibiotics alone may  prolong hospitalization. Early procedural intervention is recommended if the  patient is in moderate to severe respiratory distress (10) (worsening  tachypnea, work of breathing and/or hypoxia) because the pleural fluid often  occupies most of the hemithorax and may even cause mediastinal shift. Early  consultation with a paediatric surgeon or interventional radiologist is  recommended. Choice  of antibiotics Antibiotics remain a  key component in the medical management of empyema, with initial parenteral  therapy to cover the most common pathogens, usually followed by oral therapy.  Antibiotic coverage for likely causative organisms is essential. There are no  randomized trials pertaining to the choice of antibiotics, so the potential  choice of agents should be guided by local antimicrobial policies that consider  susceptibility patterns, specifically the prevalence of  penicillin/cefuroxime-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae and MRSA. One  suggested initial empirical antibiotic choice, in the absence of a confirmed  organism, would be cefotaxime or ceftriaxone, with some experts adding  clindamycin to better cover anaerobic infection or community-acquired MRSA.  Adding vancomycin (or linezolid) in place of clindamycin is another option, and  is usually reserved for culture-proven or severe suspected MRSA pneumonia.  Although no evidence exists for the recommended duration of treatment for  empyemas, a total of three to four weeks’ duration is reasonable if there is  adequate drainage and no evidence of additional complications. The switch to  oral antibiotics is appropriate when drainage has been completed, and the  patient is clinically improving and off oxygen (ie, at or just before  discharge). Appropriate oral antibiotics vary depending on local resistance  patterns, but a common option is amoxicillin-­clavulanate. Refer to Table 3 of  the Canadian Paediatric Society’s practice point on pneumonia for antibiotic  dosages ( 11 ). It is not uncommon for children with  empyemas to have fevers that persist for more than 72 h on appropriate therapy;  if the child is otherwise improving clinically, it is usually not a sign of  treatment failure. Choice  of procedural intervention A variety of procedural  interventions are used in Canada  for the management of empyema. These include chest tube placement with or  without fibrinolytics, repeated thoracentesis, video-­assisted thorascopic  surgery (VATS) and open thoracotomy with decortication. Although there is still  ongoing controversy and a need for additional randomized trials, the best  evidence suggests that either VATS, early thoracotomy or small-bore  percutaneous chest tube placement with instillation of fibrinolytics (CTWF)  results in the best outcomes as measured by hospital length of stay (12-17).  CTWF may be the most cost-effective choice (18). Clinicians should consider  local expertise in interventions (eg, a surgeon experienced in performing VATS  or an interventional radiologist able to insert a small-bore pigtail catheter),  and parental and patient preference when deciding on a treatment. Although most  studies have used urokinase as a fibrinolytic agent in CTWF, this agent is not  currently available in Canada.  Therefore, an alternative agent is tissue plasminogen activator (at a dose of 4  mg in 30 mL to 50 mL of normal saline daily for up to three days) (19). PROGNOSIS/OUTCOME Complete recovery of  pulmonary lung function with normalization of the CXR is expected in the  majority of children with complicated pneumonias. In a small number of  patients, lung function testing has revealed minor abnormalities of both a mild  restrictive (20) and mild obstructive (21) nature, although even these  patients demonstrated normal exercise tolerance. Children should be followed  after discharge until they have clinically recovered and their CXRs have  returned to near normal, recognizing that the latter may take several months  (22,23). Repeating the CXR at two to three months is reasonable. REFERENCES Buckingham SC, King MD, Miller ML.  Incidence and etiologies of complicated parapneumonic effusions in children,  1996 to 2001. Pediatr Infect Dis J 2003;22:499-504. Schultz KD, Fan LL, Pinsky J, et al. The  changing face of pleural empyemas in children: Epidemiology and management.  Pediatrics 2004;113:1735-40. Byington CL, LaShonda YS, Johnson TA, et  al. An epidemiological investigation of a sustained high rate of pediatric  parapneumonic empyema: Risk factors and microbiological associations. Clin Infect Dis  2002;34:434-40. Finley  C, Clifton J, FitzGerald JM, Yee J. Empyema: An increasing concern in Canada. Can  Respir J 2008;15:85-92. Byington CL, Korgenski K, Daly J, et al.  Impact of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine on pneumococcal parapneumonic  empyema. Pediatr Infect Dis J 2006;25:250-4. Hicks LA, Harrison LH, Flannery B, et  al. Incidence of pneumococcal disease due to non-pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine (PCV7) serotypes in the United    States during the era of widespread PCV7 vaccination,  1998-2004. J Infect Dis 2007;196:1346-54. Ramnath  RR, Heller RM, Ben-Ami T, et al. Implications of early sonographic evaluation of  parapneumonic effusions in children with pneumonia. Pediatrics 1998;101:68-71. Jaffe A, Calder AD, Owens CM, et al. Role of  routine 
computed tomography in paediatric empyema. 
Thorax 2008;63:897-902. Tarrago D, Fenoll A, Sanchez-Tatay D, et  al. Identification of pneumococcal serotypes from culture-negative clinical 
specimens by novel real-time PCR. Clin Microbiol Infect 2008;14:828-34. World Health Organization. The  Management of Acute Respiratory Infections  in Children: Practical Guidelines for Outpatient Care. Geneva: World Health Organization, 1995. Le Saux N, Robinson J; Canadian  Pediatric Society, Infectious Diseases and Immunization Committee. Pneumonia in  healthy Canadian children and youth: Practice points for management. Paediatr  Child Health 2011;16:417-20. Avansino JR, Goldman B, Sawin RS, et  al. Primary operative versus nonoperative therapy for pediatric empyema: A  meta-analysis. Pediatrics 2005;115:1652-9. Gates RL, Caniano DA, Hayes JR, et  al. Does VATS provide optimal treatment of empyema in children? A systematic  review. J Pediat Surg 2004;39:381-6. Li ST, Gates RL. Primary  operative management for 
pediatric empyema: Decreases in hospital length of stay and 
charges in a national sample. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2008;162:44-8. Mahant S, Cohen E, Weinstein M, et  al. Video-assisted thorascopic surgery vs chest drain with fibrinolytics for  the treatment 
of pleural empyema in children: A systematic review of 
randomized controlled trials. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2010;164:201-3. Sonnappa S, Cohen G, Owens CM, et al.  Comparison of urokinase and video-assisted thorascopic surgery for treatment of  childhood empyema. Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2006;15:221-7. Thomson AH, Hull J, Kumar MR, et al.  Randomised trial of intrapleural urokinase in the treatment of childhood  empyema. Thorax 2002;57:343-7. Cohen E, Weinstein M, Fisman DN.  Cost-effectiveness of competing strategies for the treatment of pediatric  empyema. Pediatrics 2008;21:e1250-7. Weinstein  M, Restrepo R, Chait PG, et al. Effectiveness and safety of tissue plasminogen  activator in the management of complicated parapneumonic effusions. Pediatrics  2004;113:e182-5. McLaughlin FJ, Goldmann DA, Rosenbaum  DM, et al. Empyema in children: Clinical course and long-term follow-up.  Pediatrics 1984;73:587-93. Redding GJ, Walund L, Walund D, et  al. Lung function in children following empyema. Am J Dis Child  1990;144:1337-42. Balfour-Lynn IM, Abrahamson E, Cohen  G, et al. BTS guidelines for the management of pleural effusions in children.  Thorax 2005;60(Suppl I):i1-21. Satish  B, Bunker M, Seddon P. Management of thoracic empyema in childhood: Does the  pleural thickening matter? Arch Dis Child 2003;88:918-21. HOSPITAL PAEDIATRICS SECTION EXECUTIVE Members: Drs Sanjay Mahant, The Hospital  for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario (President); Isabelle M Chevalier,  Sainte-Justine UHC, Montreal, Quebec (President-Elect); Dawn S Hartfield,  Edmonton, Alberta (Past-President); Eyal Cohen, The Hospital for Sick Children,  Toronto, Ontario; Jeret Keith McLeod, Children’s Hospital, Winnipeg, Manitoba;  Jennifer Walton, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta Liaison: Dr Nirej Mistry, The Hospital for  Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario (Representing the CPS Residents  Section) Principal authors: Drs Thea K Chibuk, Edmonton, Alberta; Eyal Cohen,  Toronto, Ontario; Joan L Robinson, Edmonton, Alberta; Sanjay Mahant, Toronto,  Ontario; Dawn S Hartfield, Edmonton, Alberta Posted:
September 2011 Disclaimer: The recommendations in this position statement
      do not
    indicate an exclusive course of treatment or procedure to be followed. Variations, taking
    into account individual circumstances, may be appropriate. I