
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 04:57:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sun, 01-May-2011 04:57:13 GMT; path=/; httponly
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sun, 01-May-2011 04:57:13 GMT; path=/; httponly
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset="utf-8"

Contact Us » Maty's Healthy Products Your cart: 0 items.
    			$ 0.00 Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary Become A Retailer Maty's Healthy Products, LLC PO Box 88, Pittsford, NY 14534 888.900.MATY(6289) fax 585.486.1118 Read more about "Become A Retailer"... Vitamin Angels www.vitaminangels.org An early 20th century writer once said, "You don't pay love back; you pay it forward,” and at Maty’s Healthy Products, we hold that tenet central to our mission. Read more about "Vitamin Angels"... Maty's In The News What Experts are Saying About Maty's Products ... NBC's Weekend Today Show - December 2011 Read more about "Maty's In The News"... National News & Recent Studies National News & Recent Studies Remedies: Honey for Coughing Posted by ANAHAD O'CONNOR on December 16, 2010, 9:09 am Read more about "National News & Recent Studies"... FAQs FAQs Why do we use buckwheat honey in our cough formula? It has been found that the darker honeys have a higher antioxidant content that lighter honeys. Buckwheat honey is one of the darkest honeys produced in the United States. In a study conducted by the University of Illinois back in 2002 it was found that buckwheat honey had the highest antioxidant activity of the various floral honeys tested. Read more about "FAQs"... Blog Maty's Healthy Products Blog Read more about "Blog"... Maty's Healthy Products Review I love a good natural company that makes safe and natural products for  children! I especially love them when they have a good story behind  their company! Maty's is one of those companies that has a story that will warm your heart  and has great products that you will want to thank them for! Read more about "Maty's Healthy Products Review"... Why We Started Maty's Healthy Products Fourteen years ago our daughter, Maty, was born with severe heart defects and was born without a spleen.  She had three heart surgeries, two of them open heart, before age 5.  Her doctors were wonderful and did a great job, but as you can imagine, she had many complications and side effects from all the drugs and surgeries.  She developed alopecia, where she was losing clumps of hair. She also developed psoriasis all over her body.  Born without a spleen, doctors told us she had a weakened immune system.  These types of conditions are not easily dealt with by conventional medical means.  We were told that treatments for alopecia and psoriasis were not appropriate for a child that young.  So being a mom and letting my instincts take over, I decided I needed to do research to find ways to get Maty healthy and to keep her that way. Read more about "Why We Started Maty's Healthy Products"... Help For Allergy Sufferers So you survived another cough and cold season with extreme weather everywhere.  Instead of kicking  back and watching life emerge with the signs of spring, you hesitate and become apprehensive with each new bud.  If this sounds familiar, you may be one of the 67 million Americans who suffer from allergy symptoms. What can we do to help protect ourselves during allergy season? I have listed some things that have helped my family and friends who suffer from seasonal allergies. Read more about "Help For Allergy Sufferers"... It's Exam Time - Can We Boost Our Brain Power! There are approximately 55,000,000 students who attend school in the US and many of them will be facing finals exams this time of the year.  With American students ranking 17th in the world, is there any way to boost their brain power to help them achieve better performance on these tests. Read more about "It's Exam Time - Can We Boost Our Brain Power!"... Next Prev Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary © Maty'