
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 02 Apr 2012 14:04:20 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Chrysalis Oriental Medicine Chinese Medicine is an ancient medical model. The beauty of it is personalization. Since each individual has a unique physiological constitution, personality and emotional makeup, there is no identical disease in two patients. There are well-defined maladies, but the way each one interacts with an individual’s system can vary greatly. Our goal is to help you maintain radiant health, which Chinese Medicine defines as balance of body, mind and spirit.  Chinese medicine was initially designed as a preventive system. Acupuncture is based on ancient Chinese philosophical concepts, and the basic idea is that we all have a vibrant life energy, known as qi (chee) that flows through our body along special paths known as channels or meridians. Along these meridians are specific points where the qi of the entire meridian can be affected. Needles can be inserted into these points to balance the flow of qi throughout the body.  There are more than 350 acupuncture points on the body connected by 12 main meridians.  Each meridian acts as a conductor of qi, and each needle insertion has a different effect on the energy that passes through the meridians.  The goal is to regulate and harmonize the flow of qi throughout the body. Obtaining the skill to diagnose and treat these patterns demands that a Chinese Medicine practitioner have a solid education, experience, observation skills and open communication with the patient. Since each patient requires a personalized treatment, you can understand why Chinese Medicine is often referred to as a healing art. How it works In health, qi flows along these meridians in the body and is believed to become concentrated at certain points where it can enter or leave the body, known as acupoints.  The flow of qi through the meridians can be disrupted by factors such as injury, stress, poor diet or spiritual neglect. It is believed that these imbalances, or blockages in energy flow, result in illness.  An acupuncturist will stimulate or suppress the flow of qi by inserting fine needles into selected acupoints to correct the imbalance. When the underlying imbalance is remedied, the symptoms disperse. How we diagnose Acupuncturists look at the whole person and design a treatment on an individual basis.  We take into account overt symptoms, but also the patient's constitutional makeup and other factors that weaken or strengthen them.  Diagnosis includes analyzing the information collected from conversation, observing the tongue, taking the 18 pulses, and palpating the body.  Treatments adjust and restore balance and may incorporate one or more therapies including acupuncture, herbal formulas, qi gong and nutritional advice. The treatment Typically the acupuncturist will begin with a thorough history. Included in the physical exam are an examination of the pulse and tongue. After this, the acupuncturist will place the patient in a comfortable position and insert the needles. An average of 10 to 20 needles will be inserted, and then the practitioner will leave the room for approximately 20 minutes while the patient rests.  When the time has elapsed, the practitioner will return and remove the needles. Threadlike, sterilized, stainless steel, single-use, disposable needles are inserted into specific points on the body to affect the qi.  Upon insertion, the patient may feel a dull ache, warmth, tingling or nothing at all.  The personalized combination of points allows the body to harmonize its qi to restore health.  People often report feeling pleasantly relaxed during the session. Many conditions can be rapidly alleviated by Chinese Medicine.  However, some conditions that have arisen over a course of years will be relieved only with slow, steady progress.  As in any form of healing, the patient's attitude, nutrition and lifestyle will also affect the outcome of a course of treatment. What acupuncture treats The World Health Organization recognizes that Chinese Medicine treats: Addictions Carpal tunnel Constipation Depression Diarrhea Digestive issues Fibromyalgia Infertility PMS Menopause Irritable bowel syndrome Insomnia Low back pain Migraines Orthopedic issues: neck, shoulder, hip, knee, ankle, spine, etc. Sciatica Many other conditions have also shown positive response to treatment.  Your practitioner can apprise you of his/her specific areas of expertise. Infertility More than 3,000 years old, Chinese Medicine has treated more people than any other medical modality.  Comprised of acupuncture and Chinese herbs, the discipline maintains that the body and mind form an interactive whole with the environment, and that only by treating the many elements as a single energy system can we attain balance and health.  The goal of achieving conception and developing a healthy pregnancy is built upon the creation of this optimum balance. In the treatment of infertility, acupuncture is a valued tool.  Acupuncture works through the meridian system to balance and harmonize the energy from the exterior inwards, causing the inner organs (uterus, liver, kidneys, etc.) to recover their original ability of conception and pregnancy. Chinese herbal medicine occupies a central role in solving infertility.  Primarily a condition of the inner organs (uterus, ovaries, liver, kidneys and spleen), infertility is caused by an energetic deficiency, excess or stagnation.  While acupuncture will benefit the patient's health in a remarkable way, herbal treatment supplements deficiencies from within, and therefore restores the capabilities of the inner organs.  It is this fact that makes the herbal treatment so valuable to a successful infertility remedy.  In fact, if you are planning on taking western fertility medications, it is often helpf