
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 11:44:42 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.camelotcancercare.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Camelot Cancer Care. Alternative cancer treatment using DMSO, Laetrile and high-dose Vitamin C. Camelot - Cancer Care Inc. Home our doctors our treatment program dmso faqs our blog contact us Choosing a Home Health Aide for Your Family Member with Cancer Posted by Sam on April 16th, 2012 As any family with a loved one who has cancer knows, finding support is vital to keeping EVERYONE healthy through the process, even if it’s just one day a week. While friends and family are great, in the event you decide to hire a home health aide, there are questions you should definitely ask before giving that person access to your home and your family. Here are five questions to help you get started with the process and find the best person to support you and your patient through this time of recovery.  It’s very important to remember to take your time and be sure that the aide has the other qualities most important to you and your family too, however.  Take the time to ask your family members what those qualities are – for instance, is it vital that the aide is quiet – or would you rather have someone friendly and bubbly?  That’s just one example, but the time you put into the hiring process at the beginning can save you hours of frustration as you go through aide after aide if you DON’T do your due diligence properly. 5 Questions to Use When Choosing a Home Health Aide Is the Home Health Aide certified and formally trained and how long have they worked in your community? Is the patient’s course of treatment documented, detailing the specific tasks to be carried out by the home health aide? What are the financial procedures of this provider? What procedures does this provider have in place to handle emergencies? Are its caregivers available 24 hours a day, seven days a week? How does this provider ensure patient confidentiality? In addition, definitely request that your potential Aide supply you with a list of references (and call them all).  These may be doctors or nurses, discharge planners, patients or family members that they’ve worked with before. Samantha Mayfield Intake Coordinator Camelot Cancer Care Category Caregiver Tags: Camelot Cancer Care , cancer , Cancer patient , Caregiver , Family Member with Cancer , Home Health Aide , Samantha Mayfield Leave Us a Comment Cat’s Claw – Uncaria Tomentosa Posted by Sam on April 3rd, 2012 There are so many curative treatments that we, in the western world, have yet to discover – or to embrace once they are discovered.  Why?  Why is a complicated issue – certainly the multi-billion dollar pharmaceutical industry does not wish to offer healing and treatment that can be found growing wild, unregulated.  In the case of Cat’s Claw (Uncaria Tomentosa), it is indigenous to the Amazon rainforest, and has been used for two thousand years by the indigenous peoples of South and Central America for everything from acne and diarrhea to diabetes, inflammation and cancer. As we become an ever-increasing “global community” and grow more and more curious about the longevity and health of other human beings, scattered around the planet, more and more often we discover that the commonly used “household remedies” are not to be cast aside in favor of processed, expensive and often damaging “conventional” therapies. Cinnamon and oatmeal, for instance, are natural remedies to high cholesterol.  And drug companies have jumped on the bandwagon, investigating and producing cinnamon in a pill form. Likewise, Uncaria Tomentosa has been heavily researched for medicinal use and immune modulation. Immune modulators are basically nutrients and drugs that stimulate the immune system by increasing (or causing) its activity in the human body. Cat’s Claw is said to do both (although clinical trials up to this point have not proven or disproven its efficacy). For cancer patients specifically, researchers have reported that cat’s claw can aid in DNA cellular repair and prevent cells from mutating, and that it can also help prevent the loss of white blood cells and immune cell damage caused by many chemotherapy drugs. Cat’s claw has been studied for over 20 years is available easily in capsules and tablets, both of which have become widely available in most health food stores at reasonable prices. It is taken today to boost immune function, as well as an all-over tonic and curatively for arthritis and inflammation, bowel and colon problems, and as we shared earlier, as a complementary therapy for cancer. While the unique chemical breakdown of Uncaria Tomentosa (Cat’s Claw) is probably beyond most of us, other than a small group of botanists and medical researchers, what we do know is that this plant has several unique factors that produce alkaloids responsible for strengthening the immune system. With the supporting evidence toward its use in treating cancer, inflammation, viral infection and vascular conditions, this is definitely an herbal treatment worth learning about in today’s “western world” where we are exposed to an endless barrage of cancer-causing chemicals in our food and environment and grow sicker with each generation, despite all of our wealth and endless opportunity. Samantha Mayfield Intake Coordinator Camelot Cancer Care Category Alternative Treatments , Botanicals Tags: Cat's Claw , Uncaria Tomentosa Leave Us a Comment Suzanne Somers pushes for new breast reconstruction option for breast cancer patients Posted by Sam on January 4th, 2012 Suzanne Somers is famous for her alternative approach to health. So when she lost most of one breast to cancer 10 years ago, she wasn’t about to settle for just any old implant. Here, the story of how she waited for — and got — the breast she’d always wanted. http://www.everydayhealth.com/breast-cancer/suzanne-somers-and-the-future-of-breast-reconstruction.aspx Category Alternative Treatments , Breast cancers , Post-Treatment Leave Us a Comment What are Coley’s Toxins, and How Do They Help Fight Cancer? Posted by Sam on October 23rd, 2011 Coley’s toxins (sometimes called Coley’s vaccine , fever therapy or mixed bacterial vaccine ) is an alternative cancer treatment that utilizes a culture of two types of killed bacteria to elicit an immune response.  This immunotherapy treatment is especially effective in certain bone and soft tissue sarcomas. The idea for the use of these toxins in alternative cancer care came from research in Germany. The formula we use at Camelot Cancer Care was originally developed in 1893 by Dr. William Coley while he was a surgeon at New York’s Memorial Hospital.  He had published research about the relationship between an infection and a regression of cancer, which we now know to be due to the immune system’s crucial role in killing cancer.  The mix of the dead Streptococcus pyogenes and Serratia marcescens bacteria prompts the immune system to fight the bacteria and it attacks the cancer cells as well.  The immune response causes a fever, and some researcher suggests that the rise in body temperature also has an effect on the continued development of cancer cells. Coley’s toxins are delivered intravenously – at Camelot Cancer Care, patients receive their treatment painlessly through a picc line or their port if they arrive with one installed. When receiving Coley’s toxins, patients may experience temporary nausea and chills as their fever spikes, but their symptoms usually return to normal within a few hours of the treatment.  This immunotherapy is excellent for combining with other treatments for a more complete alternative cancer treatment program . Category Alternative Treatments , Coley's toxins Tags: alternative cancer care , alternative cancer treatment program Leave Us a Comment 3 New Botanicals Shown to Fight Cancer Posted by Marie on October 3rd, 2011 In addition to DMSO cancer treatment , three new natural treatments are beginning to be become better recognized for their cancer-killing properties.  These alternative cancer care supplements are natural botanicals with few to no side effects, and their cancer-killing properties have been demonstrated in research at major universities. Camelot Cancer Care is excited to incorporate these three botanical treatments into their treatment regimen. 1.  Feverfew. Feverfew is an herbal remedy used to relieve coughs and colds, and it’s also a folk remedy for migraines.  In 2005, scientists discovered that an extract of feverfew is effective against a particular type of leukemia.  It’s the first agent shown to be effective against this type of leukemia, and its properties mean that it’s able to kill malignant cancer cells at the stem cell level.  As most research shows that cancer is a result of mutated stem cells (cells that can become anything), this is an exciting development and an excellent addition to an alternative cancer treatment program. 2.  Easter Lily. Easter lily is used as food in China as well as in traditional Chinese medicine, and researchers at Cornell University have been studying the anti-cancer properties of the Easter lily blooms.  Initial studies show that the extracts of the blooms are extremely cytotoxic to MLF-7 breast cancer and HL-60 leukemia cells. 3.  Jewelweed. This plant, often used as a poison ivy treatment, is also known to stimulate the immune system and help the body fight off cancer.  This topical treatment also contains anti-microbial compounds. Category Alternative Treatments , Botanicals Tags: alternative cancer care , dmso cancer treatment 1 Comment The Importance of Immune Support in Treating Cancer Posted by Marie on September 15th, 2011 A healthy and high-functioning immune system is one of the body’s most important weapons against cancer.  While cancer is normally attributed to causes other than the immune system, research has shown that building up a strong immune response can help the body fight cancer – a point well-recognized by mainstream medicine and alternative cancer treatment clinics . The immune system helps fight cancer and heal the body in two ways. 1. An enhanced immune response helps the body recognize malignancy better .  A malignant tumor occurs when DNA damage to the cells eliminates the function of “programmed death,” causing them to grow and divide without stopping or dying the way a normal cell would.  This forms a growing tumor that will eventually spread to other parts of the body. The immune system, in addition to recognizing pathogens like viruses and bacteria, can recognize malignant cells as something that should be destroyed.  This means that a body with a stronger immune system will have an easier time destroying cancerous cells.  With assistance from immunotherapy treatments like vitamin D3, vitamin B12 or a Myers Cocktail of vitamins and electrolytes, many patients’ bodies will be even more capable of fighting cancer. 2. The immune system helps fight opportunistic infections that overtake a weakened body .  When a patient’s immune function is low and their body is stricken with cancer, they are less able to fight off infections unrelated to their disease.  Their resistance to pathogens is lowered, and opportunistic infections – infections that take over the body when immune function is low – can make sicknesses like pneumonia and influenza deadly.  This resistance is lowered even more by some traditional cancer treatments like radiation and chemotherapy. By using immunotherapy to keep the immune system in high function, doctors can help prevent opportunistic infections and also renew the body’s ability to fight malignant tumors.  As an alternative cancer treatment program , immunotherapy has a number of benefits for the patient’s health and future. Category Alternative Treatments , Immunotherapy Tags: alternative cancer treatment clinics , alternative cancer treatment program 2 Comments The Importance of Having a Post-Treatment Care Program Posted by Marie on September 8th, 2011 After having DMSO cancer treatment , many patients’ scans show bodies free and clear of cancer.  Post-treatment cancer care is also an important part of an alternative cancer treatment program . DMSO, a natural byproduct of wood pulp, is a substance clinically proven to kill cancer cells by reactivating programmed cell death and allowing the immune system to better fight tumor cells.  This shrinks tumors naturally – and when paired with vitamin C and the B-vitamin laetrile, the treatment becomes even more effective.  Camelot Cancer Care’s patients receive their treatments in comfort during their daily two-hour sessions at the clinic. Even after PET scans show a body free of cancer, it’s important to adopt a post-treatment care regimen to extend the benefits of DMSO.  This also lessens the likelihood that cancer will recur and helps patients lead healthier lives.  Though it is always recommended that they consult with their doctor, post-treatment care usually consists of a four-day DMSO treatment regimen once every six months.  The treatment is administered as an IV via the patient’s existing PICC line or through a new, temporary IV line. It’s also important for patients to maintain the lifestyle changes they began during treatment.  Patients should continue to eat a balanced diet rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains; exercise regularly if their condition allows; and avoid smoking or excessive alcohol consumption.  As many vitamins (like vitamin C) have been proven to have cancer-fighting antioxidant powers, many Camelot patients also receive an arsenal of vitamin supplements that should be continued post-treatment.  Patients should also avoid exposure to environmental toxins proven to cause cancer, such as heavy metals, pesticides, mold and certain cleaning fluids. Given comfortably at home, a four-day follow-up round of DMSO treatment costs only $600 plus shipping when shipped to the patient’s house or $800 when administered by the staff at Camelot Cancer Care in Tulsa.  By repeating this process every six months, cancer survivors will be better-equipped to take care of themselves and live long and healthy lives. Category Alternative Treatments , DMSO , Post-Treatment Tags: alternative cancer treatment program , dmso cancer treatment 6 Comments How Laetrile and Vitamin C Help Kill Cancer Posted by Marie on August 31st, 2011 Laetrile and Vitamin C are two lesser-known cancer treatments that can make a huge impact on the spread of this disease.  Used in conjunction with DMSO as an alternative cancer treatment program , these two vitamins offer an extremely effective cancer treatment with fewer side effects and far less stress to the patient. What is Laetrile? Also known as amygdalin or vitamin B17, laetrile is a substance that works to target and kill cancer cells using its own natural offenses.  A laetrile molecule consists of three substances: Glucose (a simple sugar) Hydrogen cyanide Benzaldehyde A cancer cell contains many sugar transporters which grab sugar from the bloodstream and draw it into the cell to provide energy.  As the laetrile molecule approaches, the cancer cell drags it inside and attempts to metabolize it.  However, once inside, the laetrile molecule releases toxic cyanide and benzaldehyde and kills the cell.  Due to this release of a toxic substance, there has been much controversy over the use of laetrile in the medical field, but it is now known that this metabolism pattern does not occur in normal cells and the laetrile affects only cancerous tissue. How Does Vitamin C Help Fight Cancer? Laetrile is often used in conjunction with therapeutic doses of vitamin C.  It’s widely known that a diet rich in vitamins is an excellent way to prevent cancer, but vitamin C can also help fight cancer once it has already developed. Vitamin C is an antioxidant, meaning that it scavenges damaging free radicals from the body and helps prevent cancer long-term.  These free radicals, or molecules with unpaired electrons, can cause DNA damage to cells in the body.  Since damaged DNA is what causes cells to mutate into cancer cells, vitamin C supplementation can help prevent the formation and spread of cancer.  It’s also essential for maintaining good health and a strong immune system, so supplementation during cancer treatment has additional benefits on top of killing cancer cells. An alternative cancer treatment clinics consult can help determine the best course of action for treatment.  Used in conjunction with DMSO, laetrile and vitamin C have the potential to kill cancer cells and bring patients into remission. Category Alternative Treatments , DMSO , Laetrile , Vitamin C Tags: alternative cancer treatment clinics , alternative cancer treatment program 6 Comments 4 Ways DMSO Works to Treat Cancer Posted by Marie on August 23rd, 2011 DMSO, or dimethyl sulfoxide , is a byproduct of wood pulp that is completely safe for humans and has been proven extremely effective in alternative cancer care .  Though radiation and chemotherapy are the most commonly prescribed treatments for cancer, it’s important for patients to know that other options exist and DMSO could save their lives. Originally discovered in Russia in 1866, DMSO’s therapeutic benefits were originally noted in the 20 th century by Dr. Stanley Jacob.  It is FDA-approved as a treatment for bladder inflammation and to reduce brain s welling, but research has found it remarkably effective in reducing the size of malignant tumors and bringing cancer patients into remission .  DMSO works in four ways to fight cancer. Re-activates programmed cell death in cancer cells. In a normal body cell, if the cell’s DNA becomes damaged it will “shut down” and cease to reproduce.  If the damaged cell can’t repair itself, it will go into programmed cell death to avoid causing damage to the body.In a cancerous cell, this programmed cell death doesn’t happen – meaning that the damaged cell becomes “immortal” and continues to replicate.  These ceaselessly replicating cells eventually form a tumor.  In a documented study , DMSO re-activates the programmed cell death mechanisms in cancerous cells.  This means that cancerous cells will begin to die off after exposure to DMSO, and the tumor will shrink over the course of treatment. Acts as a potent carrier molecule. In the body, DMSO binds with water molecules and can pass through cell membranes, pulling in with it helpful substances that normally could not permeate the outside of the cell.  This allows medications and the immune system to destroy cancerous cells much more efficiently and without damaging healthy tissue. Helps to reverse malignant cells. DMSO also helps to reverse or ”differentiate” m alignant cells back into normal cells.  It decreases the energy level of cancerous cells and turns them benign. Scavenges free radicals. Chemically reactive free radicals roaming around the body are a known cause of cancer.  A diet high in fruits and vegetables – particularly those high in vitamin C – is the core of any anti-cancer regimen, but DMSO is known to scavenge potent hydroxyl radicals and interfere with cancer’s development. Taken during comfortable sessions in conjunction with Vitamin C an d Vitamin B17, (also known as Amygdalin or Laetrile), D MSO is an astoundingly effective alternative treatment and a safe solution to cancer.  For more information on DMSO cancer treatment , visit us online. Category DMSO Tags: alternative cancer care , dmso cancer treatment 11 Comments Immunotherapy Study Pushes Alternative Cancer Care into the Limelight Posted by Marie on August 16th, 2011 According to a study recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine, a small group of patients with advanced cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (or CLL) responded extremely well to an unconventional treatment and are all in remission one year later.  The patients were given a genetically-modified version of their immune system’s own T cells , which destroy tumors by identifying specific proteins on another cell that mark it as cancerous. In the study, researchers removed samples of each patient’s own natural T cells and gave the cells an artificial receptor for a protein called CD19 , which is found on cancerous cells in leukemia patients.  The genetically modified T cells attacked more cancer cells than they would have had they not been modified. The patients in the study had tried other, more mainstream treatments for cancer with less success, and the results they achieved with genetic T cell therapy are demonstrating that alternative cancer therapies are often an excellent choice for patients.  Mainstream medicine is beginning to recognize alternative cancer care as a viable and successful option more than ever before. Several of Camelot Cancer Care’s treatments also focus on improving immune function with safe and FDA-approved therapies. Ultraviolet blood irradiation , or UVBI, is an alternative treatment option that – like genetic T cell therapy – boosts the immune system to kill cancer cells.  Not to be confused with radiation therapy, UVBI involves passing the blood through crystal tubing and exposing it to a frequency of UV light that kills bacterial and viral cells.  These dead cells serve as antigens, which trigger the immune system and help it to recognize and kill cancerous cells.  This FDA-approved treatment has few side effects and is an excellent way to safeguard a patient’s body against recurrence. Coley’s toxins , also called mixed bacterial vaccine or fever therapy , is another treatment which triggers an immune response that recognizes tumor cells as invaders and kills them.   The therapy introduces a mixture of bacterial cultures that activate the immune system, and it has been shown to be effective in many soft tissue sarcomas and osteosarcomas. Mainstream medicine is beginning to accept and endorse other forms of cancer treatment.  This exciting new research is bringing patients’ and doctors’ attention to alternative cancer solutions and paving the way for other therapies to take a more prominent role in the treatment of cancer. Category Coley's toxins , Immunotherapy , News , UVBI Tags: alternative cancer care 9 Comments Old Categories Alternative Treatments Botanicals Brain cancers (glioblastoma, astrocytoma, etc) Breast cancers Caregiver Coley's toxins DMSO Immunotherapy Laetrile Lymphomas News Others Post-Treatment Reproductive Organ cancers Success Stories UVBI Vitamin C Home | About Us | Our Treatment Program | DMSO FAQs | Contact Us | Privacy Policies | Legal Notices Alternative Cancer Care | DMSO Cancer Treatment | DMSO uses | Alternative cancer treatment clinics Healthcare web development by Medical Web Experts a New Wave Enterprises company 