
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 05:47:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Stop smoking hypnotherapy case study - Weightloss News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Case Study 25/02/2010 Stop smoking hypnotherapy case study by Tanisha Sakhawat Stop smoking hypnotherapy was the best method for one woman, whose new year's resolution was to quit smoking for good. Carol Anderson vowed to stop smoking as she had started in her teenage years and at 31 years old she wanted to improve her future health prospects. Carol and two other participants agreed to kick the habit together and have recorded their journey on a video journal as part of a documentary. After using her first method to quit, which was NHS helpline advice and removing herself from situations where she would be tempted to smoke, she decided to move on to hypnotherapy, which she is finding much easier and supportive. Stopping smoking through hypnotherapy is said to be one of the most effective ways to quit, but it also takes willpower. The willpower Carol had, was increased after she had a carbon monoxide test. She got her lung capacity monitored through a Spirometry test, a lung function test which looks at the amount of air you can exhale in the first second, to help illuminate problems common among smokers such as Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. She said: “The biggest thing for me was the carbon monoxide test you can get,” Jane explained. “That for me was the wake up call.” Now with a course of hypnotherapy set to continue, Carol should be well on her way to kick the habit for good. Hypnotherapy helps to reduce Carol's cravings, providing support every step of the way. To find out how the Therapy Lounge can help you Lose Weight click here Jealousy biggest relation : Next → ← Previous : Hypnotherapist posts work By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2