
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 13:57:28 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gastric Balloon, Gastric Band, Liposuction Ireland The Hospital Group Call us on 1850 20 40 90 or Complete our Online Form Home About Obesity Calculating Your BMI Why Choose Us Your Next Step Balloon Programme Balloon Programme FAQ Gastric Band Surgery Gastric Band FAQ Gastric-Band-Patient-Testimonial Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass FAQ Gastric Bypass Patient Testimonial Contact-Us Dublin Cork Galway Belfast Call: 1 8 5 0   2 0   4 0   9 0 info@cosmeticsurgery.ie Book a consultation Get some advice Give me a call back Gastric Balloon Programme Ireland Experts agree that successful weight loss programmes should not only help you lose weight, but keep the pounds off over time. The balloon programme combines a clinically proven way to reduce hunger with your own personal team of experts. Email us for more information on Gastric Balloon The Gastric Balloon The balloon is a soft, silicone sack that is inserted into the  stomach and filled with sterile saline. With the balloon you will have a feeling of satiety, or lack of hunger. The balloon will be removed after 6 months. With the help of the balloon, you can more easily adopt the lifestyle changes needed to lose weight. For more information please contact us on Gastric Balloon Surgery Gastric Balloon Programme As an eligible candidate, you will begin your programme by  meeting with a physician and nurse to discuss the programme in detail. Following your procedure, you will meet with your support team and learning the principles that will become the basis of your long-term success. The out patient procedure generally takes 20-30 minutes, after which you will be cared for in your room until you are able to go home the same day. The first week you will be on a liquid diet with instructions to drink lots of water. After the first week, the dietician will recommend solids. You will receive instructions on your initial solid-foods nutrition regime with calorie restrictions. During the six months that the balloon is in place, there will be meetings with your team to measure your weight-loss progress and for education and training. This period is important to prepare you for maintaining weight loss after the balloon is removed. The balloon gives you a window of opportunity to adapt to the lifestyle changes you must make in order to maintain your ideal body weight. For more information please contact us on Gastric Balloon Surgery Gastric Balloon - Education and training You will learn the principles needed to manage your weight and promote long-term health post Gastric balloon . Some of these include nutrition, exercise, eating behaviours and psychological issues related to food. While learning, you will be motivated by your success and turn these principles into habits that will serve you the rest of your life. The Gastric balloon advantage The gastric balloon programme , by comparison, offers many distinct advantages over conventional diets and weight loss programmes. With the balloon you will: •    Have a feeling of fullness •    Lose more weight than with other programmes •    Be supported by a team of medical experts •    Learn principles for long-term success •    No need for General Anaesthetic so less risk of complication •    A start to a healthier life The balloon is not a magic pill, but a tool to change your lifestyle. Taking part in the programme will give you the education and support to change your lifestyle habits and have a better chance for long-term success. For more information please contact us on Gastric Balloon Surgery Gastric Balloon - Pregnancy or planned pregnancy. As with all medical procedures, there are potential risks of unforeseen, unknown or adverse reactions to medications and the procedure itself. Please discuss your questions and expectations about the programme with your physician and evaluate the benefits against the possible risks. For more information please contact us on Gastric Balloon Surgery Gastric Balloon Ireland For those who need a gastric balloon surgeon we offer the latest in gastric band surgery including gastric banding , gastric balloon and gastric bypass surgery in Ireland. For those looking to improve their self image, we offer a whole host of other surgical and non-surgical procedures including the latest in cosmetic plasticsurgery including rhinoplasty, nose jobs and tummy tucks , hair transplant and hair loss treatment and facial treatments and cosmetic dentistry. What is the price of gastric balloon surgery? To find out how much a gastric balloon costs, and to see before and after photos, contact us right now to book your gastric balloon consultation. Post Gastric Balloon Surgery Contact Us Title Mr Mrs Miss Ms First Name Surname Address Town / City County Postcode Country UK ROI Spain USA Other Telephone * Email * Procedure of interest Please Select Abdominoplasty / Tummy Tuck Breast Enlargement Breast Reduction Breast Uplift Face / Neck Lift Liposculpture Male Breast Reduction Otoplasty / Ear Reshaping Rhinoplasty / Nose Job Other (Cosmetic Surgery) Gastric balloon Gastric band Other obesity aftercare Other (Obesity Surgery) Hair Transplant Preferred Clinic Please Select Dublin Clinic Belfast Clinic Cork Clinic Galway Clinic Send a brochure Arrange a consultation Call me back The Hospital Group 2008. All rights reserved. Registered Office: Dolan Park Hospital, Stoney Lane, Bromsgrove, B60 1LY. Registered Number: 02811995 The Hospital Group Ireland is part of www.thehospitalgroup.ie Sitemap Site Designed and Developed by Worldsites www.cosmeticsurgerycork.ie | www.cosmeticsurgerydublin.ie | www.cosmeticsurgerybelfast.ie | www.cosmeticsurgerygalway.ie | www.cosmetictreatme