Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Remedies for Cuts Click above 
						to Bookmark this page for yourself and/or share it with 
						your friends Home Click on the links 
						below for "The Best" in: Health News & Information Article 
						Directory Home & Herbal Remedies Beating & Avoiding Cancer Diets & Weight Loss Healthy Recipes Natural Living Anti-Aging & Longevity Pets and Animals Humor Inspiration Health Books Travel Recreation Hobbies Making Money Romance Luella's 
						Corner The TBYIL 
						Complete Supplement & Health Catalog Links Contact Us If you would like 
						to donate to help us keep this web site active and growing, 
						click on the button above.   Much thanks! - Tony & Luella intraMAX™ 100% 
												Organic MicroComplexed™ 
												IntraCELL™ Level IV Technology ~ 
												415 Nutrients All-In-One, 
												Perfect Whole Foods & Phyto 
												Nutrition ~ Super Energizing ~ 
												All Natural Defense . The 
												Most Scientifically Advanced, 
												Clinically Proven, Health 
												Promoting Organic Nutritional 
												Supplement Available Today! Available Now! Click on the image for 
													more information The Best Colloidal Silver on the 
						Planet! The Best Years in Life Home & Herbal Remedies Collected 
						from around the world and through the ages Heal Cuts Naturally and Stop 
												Them From Bleeding by Tony Isaacs No matter how careful we are, 
												we all get an occasional cut 
												from time to time, and sometimes 
												those cuts can be bad ones. 
												Though serious cuts may require 
												prompt medical attention, there 
												are many good natural ways to 
												disinfect and help heal cuts as 
												well as stop them from bleeding. One of the very best remedies 
												for cuts is raw honey. Raw honey 
												has been used for over 2,000 
												years to prevent and heal 
												infections. The sugar solutions 
												of honey interact with water 
												molecules and inhibit the growth 
												of microorganisms. When wound 
												exudates mix with honey, 
												hydrogen peroxide is produced 
												and released slowly via a 
												glucose oxidase enzyme reaction. 
												As a result, the hydrogen 
												peroxide provides antibacterial 
												activity but does not damage 
												tissue. The best honey for 
												healing is honey from the Manuka 
												tree (Leptospermum scoparium). Apply raw honey and cover with a 
												bandage. With a small cut, the 
												pain from the cut is gone after 
												about 30 minutes, but leaving 
												the honey on overnight is even 
												better. Colloidal silver is a natural 
												antibiotic, germ killing, 
												antiseptic that causes speedy 
												healing and helps rebuild 
												tissues. Apply the silver to 
												cuts and scrapes. The 
												application causes no more pain 
												than plain water. For best 
												results apply frequently and 
												keep the cut area moist with the 
												silver solution. Two other excellent items for 
												healing cuts and scrapes are 
												lavender oil and tea tree oil. 
												Both lavender and tea tree oils 
												speed healing and kill germs. 
												Apply lavender oil or tea tree 
												oil to cuts and scrapes. 
												Application usually causes no 
												pain, and any existing pain from 
												the wound should disappear 
												quickly. Hydrogen peroxide is good for 
												cleaning cuts and has strong 
												antiseptic qualities. It is also 
												good for cuts inside the mouth. 
												Mix 50/50 with water and apply 
												to external cuts with a cotton 
												swab or swish in the mouth for 
												several seconds for cuts inside 
												the mouth. Be sure to apply a 
												topical remedy such as the ones 
												listed here afterward for 
												external cuts. An effective home remedy for 
												cuts can be made by mixing one 
												part powdered echinacea, one 
												part powdered slippery elm and 
												one part powdered cranesbill. 
												Add water to make a paste. Rub 
												on the affected area and cover 
												with a bandage or gauze. The antioxidant power that makes 
												vitamin E beneficial for your 
												heart also speeds the healing of 
												minor cuts. A good way to use 
												vitamin E is to prick a vitamin 
												E capsule with a sterile needle 
												and squeeze the oil onto your 
												cut at least three times a day. 
												Cover more serious cuts with a 
												bandage. Be sure to choose 
												natural vitamin E (d-alpha 
												tocopherol), as it has more 
												antioxidant power than synthetic 
												vitamin E. Two other items which can help 
												heal cuts are garlic and 
												bromelain. Garlic is a natural 
												antibiotic which can be rubbed 
												on minor cuts. Bromelain is a 
												natural extract of the pineapple 
												plant which has been found to 
												speed healing tremendously when 
												taken internally. To stop cuts from bleeding, 
												apply pressure to the cut to 
												help the blood clot. An 
												extremely effective way to stop 
												bleeding is to sprinkle cayenne 
												pepper liberally on the cut. 
												Usually the bleeding will stop 
												in only minutes. Another natural item that can 
												help stop bleeding is tea bags. 
												The tannins in tea help the 
												blood coagulate faster. Apply 
												wet tea bags to the cut. Tea 
												bags are especially good for 
												cuts inside the mouth. For deep cuts and wounds, clean 
												and disinfect thoroughly and 
												then pack with cayenne pepper or 
												raw honey. For best results, use 
												a combination of both. Sources included: http://www.scribd.com/doc/15467411/50-Home-Remedies-That-Work http://dermnetnz.org/treatments/honey.html http://curezone.com/forums/am.asp?i=1532882 About the author Tony Isaacs is a natural health advocate and researcher and the author of books and articles about natural health including "Cancer's Natural Enemy".  Mr. Isaacs articles are featured at Natural News, the Health Science Institute's Healthiertalk website, CureZone, the Crusador online, AlignLife, the Cancer Tutor, the American Chronicle and several other venues. Mr. Isaacs also has The Best Years in Life website for baby boomers and others wishing to avoid prescription drugs and mainstream managed illness and live longer, healthier and happier lives naturally. In addition, he hosts the Yahoo Oleandersoup Health group of over 2000 members and the CureZone "Ask Tony Isaacs - Featuring Luella May" forum. Your website hosts Tony Isaacs and 
											Luella May Click here to 
											visit our CureZone Health Forum: Ask 
											Tony Isaacs: Featuring Luella May – 
											Natural Health, Cancer, Longevity 
											and Home & Herbal Remedies. Misty the Found Dog - 
						Official Mascot of The Best Years in Lif e For the best in health information, 
subscribe to The Rose Laurel Press Newsletter 
featuring articles by Tony M. Isaacs Subscribe to the Rose Laurel Press and The Oleandersoup 
		Forum - Free Subscription Powered by health.groups.yahoo.com Rose Laurel Enterprises * P O Box 121 * Cooper * TX * 75432 Phone: 903-886-2436Fax: 801-926-4273 Email: contact[at]tbyil.com - (replace [at] with @) D isclaimer: 
The information on this page and on this website has not been evaluated by the 
						FDA.  We do not diagnose, treat, cure or 
prevent illness or disease - instead, we try to help people learn how to do so themselves.  
						Anyone who believes they have a 
						serious medical condition or health issue should seek 
						diagnoses from a qualified medical professional before 
						making any decisions on how to best address their 
						health. We do not sell or advocate drugs, nor do we make any 
						claims that anything advocated or sold on this website 
						is a drug. Furthermore, anyone 
						contemplating using any products or information on this 
						website must accept such use as experimental and 
						voluntary.  No claims are made regarding the 
						therapeutic use of the products or information on this 
						website and all products featured or sold on this 
		