
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 01:23:16 GMT
Server: Apache
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Leg Cramps | Natural Cure | Home Remedies Skip to content Home Remedy Central Home remedies & natural cures using aromatherapy, herbs, vitamins, minerals, essential oils, homeopathy, teas, juices and supplements for optimal health "Let food be your medicine"  - Hippocrates Home Home Remedies Natural Cures Herbal Remedies Herbs Extracts Aromatherapy Homeopathy Supplements Herbs Vitamins Herbal Extracts Minerals Nutritional Supplements Amino Acids Drinks Juices Teas Home Remedies > Natural Cures > Leg Cramps Leg Cramps Home Remedies - Natural Cure Leg Cramps When a single muscle, or a group of muscles in the leg contract involuntarily, you are having leg cramps.  Leg cramps HURT, and the only immediate relief is to stretch the muscle back in the opposite direction.  For example, if it is your calf muscle cramping, you may have to reach down, grasp your toes, and pull them forward.  That will momentarily ease the pain, but the cramp often comes back as soon as you let go.  Leg cramps happen most often at night after you have gone to bed. Home Remedies For Leg Cramps: Causes of Leg Cramps: The exact cause of leg cramps is unknown, but there are some common factors that seem to contribute to the likelihood you will have them. Overexertion resulting in extreme muscle fatigue Exercises that use muscles you don’t normally use Dehydration, Electrolyte, fluid, or hormonal imbalances Excess weight Medications, like diuretics, sometimes have side effects causing leg cramps Nerve or muscle diseases Nerve abnormalities Poor circulation or diminished blood supply Quinine: Leg cramps seem to respond well to quinine.  I have known many elderly people who insisted on drinking about 1/4 cup of tonic water before bed each night, and it totally eliminated their leg cramps. Potassium: Adding foods rich in potassium such as bananas, orange juice or potatoes to the diet, helps to avoid leg cramps. Hot Water: A hot shower or warm bath before bed can help soothe over stressed muscles, and prevent leg cramps.  If you feel the leg cramps coming on, you can use a warm towel or heating pad to help alleviate the tenderness. Herbal, Vitamin, And Mineral Supplements: Alfalfa promotes circulation Gingko enhances blood circulation Valerian is a natural muscle relaxant Horse Chestnut relieves muscle cramps Potassium or Vitamin E deficiencies cause leg cramps Niacin and Vitamin C Aids in circulation Vitamin D aids in calcium absorption Calcium and Magnesium deficiencies can cause leg cramps DMG may aid in oxygenation Co-enzyme Q-10 is believed to lower blood pressure and improve blood circulation Common Sense Preventive Measures to Avoid Leg Cramps Stay Hydrated: Dehydration causes leg cramps.  It is especially important to stay well hydrated during workouts.  Drink plenty of fluids before, during, and after exercising. Stretching: Stretching before and after exercising helps prevent leg cramps.  When you begin an exercise routine, be sure to start slowly, and increase your routine gradually.  A sudden change in your level of activity can cause leg cramps.  Keep a rolled up sheet or blanket at your feet to prevent your feet from pointing downward while you sleep, helps to prevent leg cramps. Amazon.com Widgets Browse All Remedies Home Remedies Natural Cures Extracts Herbs Homeopathic Remedies Vitamins Minerals Nutritional Supplements Amino Acids Juices Aromatherapy Teas Admin Essential Oils Health Drinks Herbal Remedies Home Remedy Homeopathy Natural Cure Supplements Administration Guest Post Administration About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms Of Service References Article Submit Directory Products Visitors We have 956 guests online Latest Remedies Sleep Deprivation Hot Flash Liver Disease Lowering Triglycerides PMDD (Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder) live healthy , natural , simple , organic , whole , fresh and clean . Search Home Remedy Follow Us "The doctor of the future will give no medicine, but will interest his patients in the care of the human frame, in diet, and in the cause and prevention of disease"  - Thomas Edison Natural Healing heal with nature using home remedies , aromatherapy , essential oil , herbal tea , vitamins , juices , nutritional supplements , homeopathy , herbs and minerals . Submit a Remedy Have something to share? Suggest a Home Remedy or Submit a New Topic . Copyright 	© Corina Wilson Home Remedies, Natural Cures & Aromatherapy.  Promoting Natural Health and Healing using Aromatherapy, Herbs, Vitamins, Minerals, Essential Oils, Teas, Juices and Nutritional Supplements. Use common sense. Healthy living is your best defense. Home Remedy Central has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and should not be used to prescribe, diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease or illness.  HomeRemedyCentral.com does not represent or endorse the accuracy or reliability of the natural remedies listed.  

Always consult with your doctor or medical professional with any questions you have regarding health concerns. 