Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

MigraBalance for migraine headaches MigraBalance Pro Herbal and nutritional supplements supporting natural cerebrovascular tone formulated for migraine 
headache sufferers MigraBalance is a unique combination of herbal and nutritional supplements aimed 
at enahncing natural cerebrovascular tone and pro-inflammatory mediators to support migraine headache 
sufferers. 60 vegetable capsules Retail $29.95 / Your Cost $22.46 MigraBalance Pro contains 60 vegetable capsules,  each containing: Riboflavin (Vit. B2)	200 mg In some clinical trails, riboflavin seems to reduce the pain and frequency of migraine.
Fifty-nine percent (59%) of patients receiving riboflavin improved by at least 50%. (Holroyd, 2003) Magnesium Amino Acid Chelate		200 mg Magnesium supports vascular tone in several ways: inhibition of vasospasm, inhibition of 
platelet aggregation, interference with synthesis, release and actions of inflammatory mediations, 
stabalization of cell membranes. Feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium, standardized extract)			50 mg Feverfew is a natural botanical commonly recommended to support cerebrovascular tone. 
Researchers found that 70% of migraine sufferers who had taken feverfew daily for prolonged 
periods had both decreased frequency and severity of maigraine headaches. (Johnson, 1985) Dulse		10 mg Dulse is red seaweed grown in cold waters off the coast of New Brunswick. Dulse is a natural 
detoxifying vegetable providing essential vitamins  (particularly B vitamins), minerals, proteins, 
and trace elements  (including lithium). Ginger root		10 mg Ginger root contains the active antioxidant components gingerols, zingerone, and  shogaols. More than 
80% of migraine patients report nausea. Experts agree that ginger is a highly effective anti-nausea 
agent  (Web MD, 2002). The Anatomy of a Typical Migraine The typical migraine headache is throbbing or pulsatile. The migraine is initially unilateral and 
localized in the front temporal and ocular area. A migraine headache builds up over a period of 1-2 
hours, progressing posteriorly and becoming diffuse.  Migraines typically last from several hours to a 
whole day. Migraine pain is moderate to severe, intensifying with routine physical activity. Eighty percent (80%) of migraines are accompanied with nausea and vomitting which usually occur 
later in the migraine attach. Fifty percent (50%) of migraine headaches are accompanied with food 
intolerance. Some migraine patients become pale and clammy, especially if nausea develops. Products complementary to MigraBalance for a comprehensive anti-migraine program: New Life 1000 Omega-3 essential fatty acids from cold water salmon oil. Omega 3 fatty acids dramatically reduce 
harmful cholesterol and triglyceride levels. New Life 1000 is certified pure Omega-3 containing no 
artifical preservatives, colorings, flavors, sugar, starch, or wax.  Contains NO liver oil. Rigorous 
standards and special processing result in the highest quality Omega-3 softgels on the market. De-Oiled Lecithin Our Lecithin has the highest phosphatide concentration available (approx. 98%). Phosphatidyl choline 
in our lecithin is a brain and nerve nutrient. It helps reduce high cholesterol levels. Pure lecithin 
maintains the surface tension of the cell membranes, controling what goes in and out of each cell, 
allowing nutrients in, and wastes out. Green Magic Green Magic contains 17 of the most nutrient dense foods on the planet to provide a convienent, good
tasting way to obtain full spectrum nutrition on a daily basis. The micro-algaes, cereal grass juice
powders, sea vegetables, enzymes, anti-oxidants, phyto-nutrients, and probiotics in Green Magic provide
the nutrients your body needs to support its' natural capability for rejuvenation. Golden Omega-Omega Omega-Omega is a rich source of essential fatty acids, and particularily Omega-3, a key Essential 
Fatty Acid. Omega-Omega contains: organic unrefined flax oil, organic unrefined pumpkin seed oil, 
organic unrefined borage oil, organic flax seed powder, Evening Primrose oil, and natural mixed 
tocopherols. Use Golden Omega-Omega in salad dressing, as a condiment on vegetables, pasta, rice, 
or potatoes. Excellent in dips.  Add to food after it has been removed from heat.  Golden Omega-Omega 
has a delicious nutty flavor. Nutri Cleanse Nutri Cleanse is an all natural, gentle herbal colon
cleanser. The very best diet cannot promote good health if the colon is clogged with a collection of
waste. Nutri-Cleanse was developed to help re-establish a healthy colon and provide dietary fiber.
Nutri-cleanse works gently and naturally to cleanse, heal, and nourish our lower digestive track. Two Commonly Noted Causes of Migraines Hormonal Changes Fluctuations in the level of the hormone estrogen during the menstrual cycle have been linked to 
the onset of migraines. Headaches greatly decrease after menopause. Women who suffer from hormonal 
changes may benefit from the use of a natural progesterone creme. Low Blood Sugar Studies have shown that blood sugar levels are low during a migraine attack, and the lower the 
blood sugar level, the more severe the headache. Nutritional Recommendations Rule out food sensitivities thay may be contributing to migraine headaches. Early studies have suggested that about 30-40% of migraine sufferers benefit markedly by avoiding 
certain foods. The results of four double-blind studies support the role of food in causing migraines. 
A nutritional advisor can help with a controlled elimination diet to identify offending foods that 
impact a migraine sufferer. Avoid dietary amines Foods such as chocolate, cheese, citrus, and alcohol contain amines (e.g., beta-phenylethylamine and 
tyramine) known to cause vasoconstriction either directly or indirectly through the liberation of 
catecholamines. Reduce arachidonic acid Arachidonic acid is found in a disproportionate amount of omega-6 oils in the diet, such as corn oil 
and many high temperature frying oils. Arachidonic acid can increase platelet aggregation, increase 
histamine release, and increase inflamation associated with migraines. Increase consumption of essentail fatty acids Essential fatty acids, especially omega-3 fatty acids will help decrease platelet aggregation and 
change the membrane composition to more of the unsaturated acids. 
Recommended: Golden Omega-Omega , and New Life 1000 for benefits and availability of supplements for essential 
fatty acids. Increase fiber and complex carbohydrates High fiber vegetables, whole grains, and Nutri Cleanse will increase the number of bowel movements and 
decrease bowel transit time, helping alleviate constipation and blood sugar imbalances. Consume a low fat, high complex carbohydrate diet A study conducted by the Loma Linda School of Public Health, 1994-1996, showed that a low-fat, high 
complex carbohydrate diet can dramately lower the frequency, intensity, and duration of migraine 
headaches and, consequently, reduce the usage of pain medications. One of the most important 
contributions of the study was to identify increased levels of blood fat as a common denominator of 
primary headaches. Add De-oiled lecithin to your diet as a natural source of choline Red blood cell choline levels may be different in patients with cluster headaches. In a study of 
cluster headaches, the RBC choline concentration of patients suffering from cluster headaches was 
compared to age-related controls. The RBC choline concentration was reported to be low in patients 
during and between cluster headache periods. during lithium treatment, choline levels rose 78 times. 
(de Belleroche, 1984). Recommended: De-Oiled Lecithin and Green Magic . Take 1 or 2 capsules daily of MigraBalance MigraBalance has been formulated specifically for migraine sufferers for support of healthy 
cerebrovascular tone. Selected References: Bic, Zuzana, at the Loma Linda School of Public Health (1994-1996). Brown D, Gaby A, Reichert R, Clinical Applications of Natural Medicine-Migraine NPRC 
Condition-Specific Monograph Series , 1997. Johnson E, Kadam, Hylands and Hylands, Efficacy of feverfew as prophylactic treatment of 
migraine , British Med. J. 5619-73, 1985. Linde A, et al, Low brain magnesium in migraine headache , 1989:29:590-93 Makhejaan, Baialey J M, A platelet phospholipases inhibitor from the medicinal herb feverfew 
(Tanacetum parthenium) . Mansfield L E, Food Allergy and Migraine: Whom to evaluate and how to treat . Postgrad Med, 
83(7):46 55, 1988. Mowrey and Clayson, The Lancet, 1982. Schoenen J, Lenarrts M, Bastings E, Effectiveness of high-dose riboflavin in migraine prophylaxis:A randomized controlled 
trial . Neurology 50:446, 1998. Schoenen J, et al, Blood magnesium levels in migraines . Cephalagia 97-99, 1991. Solomon S S, Lipton R B, Newman L C, Prophylactic Therapy of C