Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
Set-Cookie: ANONID120681=08c42e55-7c5b-4863-8ca6-795293743a30; domain=thelegveinclinic.com.au; expires=Sun, 28-Apr-2013 04:27:53 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: VISID120681=2ada7683-f7b0-49d5-81c7-da1e38fbde4b#www.thelegveinclinic.com.au#28.04.2012 03:26:49.326; domain=thelegveinclinic.com.au; expires=Sat, 28-Apr-2012 04:57:53 GMT; path=/
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 04:27:53 GMT
Connection: close

Varicose & Spider Veins Home Contact Dr Varcoe Talk to Dr Varoce About Dr Varcoe Making an Appointment About Varicose Veins Who Should Treat Your Leg Veins? What are varicose veins? What are spider veins? Abnormal Leg Veins Frequently Asked Questions Before & After Gallery Watch a Video of Laser Treatment Leg Vein Consultations Making an Appointment Vein Treatments See all Treatment Options Standard Sclerotherapy Ultrasound Guided Sclerotherapy Endovenous Laser Ablation Patient Testimonials Treatment Costs Treatment Finance Options About Dr Varcoe Our Clinic Contact Dr Varcoe About Dr Varcoe Contact Details for Clinic Making an Appointment For Out of Town Patients Community Dr Varcoe Videos In the Media Associated Links You can also find us ... Blog For Doctors General Overview Contact Dr Varcoe My History Register Log In Update My Details Home The Leg Vein Clinic Varicose Vein treatments & spider vein treatments Laser ablation, Ultrasound Guided Sclerotherapy, Sclerotherapy, GOLD COAST CLINIC Can I be guaranteed that the treatment will be successful? Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The short answer is a qualified yes. Varicose Veins: If someone presents with varicose veins I can guarantee that I will get rid of the varicose veins. I can also guarantee that it will be very unlikely that they will ever get any varicose veins related to the underlying vein that I have treated (provided they come in for the scheduled reviews after their initial treatment). Spider Veins: For cosmetic spider vein concerns I can guarantee that I will significantly improve the current situation. If a patient has had multiple previous treatments, that have been unsuccessful and have resulted in an even worse situation, then the expected improvement is obviously not as good as if I had the opportunity to treat the legs initially. Of course I cannot guarantee that spider veins or varicose veins will not occur in other areas as this is the result of genetic coding. Treatment of the underlying incompetent veins by Endovenous Laser Ablation or Ultrasound Guided Sclerotherapy does not affect whether veins will occur in other areas. Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=280374&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment When should I start treatment? Friday, April 13, 2012 I have various hurdles that patients must “jump” over before I will treat their spider veins or varicose veins for cosmetic concerns. In a world of increasing concern about physical appearance, I need to be convinced that the cosmetic concerns are reasonable. By this I mean would an average person think it reasonable for the patient to be seeking treatment. I also use the “2 meter rule” whereby if I cannot see any veins standing 2 meters away then I will not treat. Also if a patient has had numerous previous treatments which have resulted in a poor result then I will be reluctant to treat. This situation is like getting lots of poor tradesmen to do a renovation and by the time a skilled tradesman comes along the structure is just too badly damaged to get an acceptable result no matter what the expertise of the tradesman. I also reluctant to treat patients younger than 21 years old because results are generally not as good as for “older” patients and the tolerance of young patients for the discomfort of treatment and side effects is less. Side effects, particularly matting, are more common in younger patients. Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=280353&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment Why you should get your varicose or spider veins treated? Thursday, April 05, 2012 I am often asked "Should I get my varicose veins or spider veins treated?" The answer is generally "yes" for someone with cosmetic concerns provided the patient has been fully informed of the risks of treatment and they are realistic in their expectations for treatment. If the cosmetic concerns are minor and the patient is young then I generally advise that they seek treatment when their cosmetic concerns are more significant to justify the cost and risk of treatment . Often a patient will present with large varicose veins that are not really concerning them cosmetically and are not associated with any aching. This situation warrants an assessment of whether the patient has significant risk of complications if the situation is left untreated . This is assessed by making a decision about the relative risk based on the pressure effects into the ankle (and the associated risk of ulceration) and the risk of thrombosis (based on past history and size of varicose veins). For some patients the risk of bleeding is also a consideration. Obviously the older the patient is then the less likely I am to advise a procedure is appropriate unless there has already been a complication (complications tend to recur).  If I am in any doubt whether treatment is in the patients best interests I will suggest a review in 6-12 months to determine the rate of progression. Comments (1) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=280212&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? June Peterson commented on 27-Apr-2012 01:14 PM Wow, this is a really bad looking set of veins. Can we see the results of this. Hoping the outcome for this one was a big improvement. Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment How can I prevent varicose veins and spider veins? Sunday, December 11, 2011 There is very little evidence that any specific measures are helpful in preventing varicose veins . However limiting or modifying some of the contributing factors may be helpful in preventing progression of varicose veins. It is likely that exercise, avoiding be overweight and avoiding long periods of standing stationary might be helpful. You should also avoid wearing garments (socks or stockings) that restrict the blood flow from your legs. It may be helpful to avoid constipation and it may also be useful to avoid wearing high heel shoes for prolonged periods of time as these shoes mean the calf muscle is unable to provide an optimal pumping effect. There doesn’t seem to be much evidence that crossing your legs has any effect on varicose veins. Comments (1) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=260570&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Dorothea commented on 28-Feb-2012 05:40 AM Great Website, Thx! Keep up the good effort. Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment How are varicose and spider veins treated? Wednesday, December 07, 2011 Spider veins are invariably treated with Sclerotherapy whereby a small amount of solution (the sclerosant) is injected into the abnormal veins to close them off. The body then dissolves these treated veins. Laser treatment of spider veins has produced inferior results to Sclerotherapy. As with all medical treatments the skill of the treating doctor is a critical component to achieving a successful result. The Australasian College of Phlebology has a register of doctors credentialed to perform certain procedures. Varicose veins are increasingly being treated less with surgery (“vein stripping”) and more with the “non-surgical” procedures of Ultrasound Guided Sclerotherapy (UGS) and Endovenous Laser Ablation (ELA) . Some Phlebologists still perform adjunctive surgery (ambulatory phlebectomies) in association with one of the non-surgical techniques. Whether UGS or ELA is used depends on many factors with the most important being the size of the vein being treated. The larger the veins are more likely to be treated with ELA. Compression stockings These come in a variety of compression strengths ranging from support pantyhose to Class 3 medical compression stockings . In between are the compression stockings that are useful in the prevention of DVT’s when flying and the anti-embolism stockings that are often work in hospital. After Sclerotherapy it is usual for a Class 2 stocking to be worn from 3 days to 2 weeks depending on which vein was treated. As an adjunct to wearing stockings it is important to do as much walking as is possible. Endovenous techniques (radiofrequency and laser) In many countries Endovenous Laser Ablation (ELA) is replacing, or has replaced, the traditional surgical “stripping” of veins . The reasons for this are that ELA can be done as an office procedure (walk-in, walk-out) and has less risk than surgery. It also does not have the recovery time associated with surgery. The long term results of ELA are excellent. Importantly the recurrence rate of new varicose veins after surgery, which is often very concerning for patients, is avoided by performing ELA. The technique of ELA consists of placing a small laser fibre up the middle of the vein. This fibre is then very slowly withdrawn from and the laser energy from the tip of the fibre then heat seals as it is withdrawn. The laser is introduced via a 3-4 mm cut (done under local anaesthetic) and the procedure itself is also done under local anaesthetic. Normal walking is possible straight away as the local anaesthetic is not into the muscles but only placed around the vein being treated. The actual laser treatment is painless although some patients report a buzzing sensation. Comments (1) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=260569&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Sarah Hendersan commented on 02-Apr-2012 04:59 PM Really good info on here. Just a further question about compression stockings - does it have to be a medical stocking? Are garmets like SKINS and other compression sportswear any good for leg compression? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment Are varicose veins and spider veins dangerous? Thursday, December 01, 2011 Spider veins are NOT dangerous and present a cosmetic concern although they can occasionally be associated with some minor aching particularly after prolonged standing. Varicose veins on the other hand can be associated with Deep Vein Thrombosis, Pulmonary Embolism, ulceration of the skin (usually around the ankles), cellulitis (if the damaged skin gets infected) and significant bleeding episodes if the varicose vein is traumatised and bursts. For many people though varicose veins are small and not associated with much in the way of symptoms and the risk of the aforementioned problems is low. Comments (2) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=260556&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? For more information contact Varicose Veins Treatment commented on 13-Feb-2012 03:12 AM I just like the helpful info you provide on your articles. I will bookmark your weblog and test again right here frequently. I'm moderately certain I'll be told many new stuff proper right here! Best of luck for the following! Get great tips for your Body Makeover at http://www.bodymakeoverreviews.co.uk commented on 20-Mar-2012 04:31 PM Can you tell us more about this? I'd care to find out some additional information. Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment Why varicose veins and spider veins usually appear in the legs Sunday, November 27, 2011 The main factor is gravity. Because both varicose veins and spider veins are associated with faulty one way valves that allow back pressure, and the legs have the biggest effect from gravity, this is where varicose veins and spider veins most frequently occur. It is common to get spider veins on face particularly around the cheeks and nose but this is predominantly due to sun damage. Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=260547&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment Factors that increase the risk of varicose veins and spider veins Friday, November 25, 2011 The most important factor in whether or not you will develop varicose veins is your genetic background. This situation can be aggravated by relative inactivity, occupation (prolonged standing), pregnancy, constipation, wearing high heel shoes, being overweight and advancing age. There is also some evidence that dietary factors may have some influence but the specific foods have not been identified. Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=260545&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment Varicose veins and spider veins and why they occur Wednesday, November 23, 2011 Varicose veins are the sausage like veins that appear “above” the surface of the skin. This distinguishes them from the very fine spider veins that appear on the surface of the skin. Spider veins appear as fine purple, blue or red veins in a network sometimes looking like a “spiders web”. Varicose veins, if severe, can look like a bunch of grapes, particularly around the inside of the knee. Varicose veins are invariably associated with a deeper vein that is not working. This “incompetent” deeper vein has either faulty or absent one-way valves that results in back pressure down the vein and the subsequent appearance of varicose veins on the surface. Thus, varicose veins can be thought of as “escape routes” for the underlying back pressure. Spider veins on the other hand rarely have any underlying incompetent veins but invariably are associated with larger surface veins with faulty valves. These “reticular” veins which are blue or green in appearance also have back pressure which then leads to the formation of spider veins (“telangiectasia”). Because of the association of varicose veins and spider veins with these “high pressure” feeder veins it is critical that these associated veins are treated for a satisfactory result to be obtained. Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=260544&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment How often should I get my veins treated? Wednesday, November 02, 2011 This is a question that I am often asked to which I reply.... “ If the quality of treatment is high the treatment frequency will be low” . Specifically for surface veins, if the reticular veins (the blue / green veins that lead into spider veins) are treated prior to treating the spider veins then not only is the treatment more effective but it lasts a lot longer. For example, a 40 year old lady would usually get between 5 – 10 years between treatments if treated correctly. This time between treatments extends as people get older. The treated veins do not come back but there will be new veins grow over time for the same reason that the original veins grew – genetics! If the reticular veins are not treated first then not only do patients often get a poor result but they require frequent treatment (every 6 -12 months) because the treated spider veins will just keep reappearing. There is also a higher incidence of the complication of “matting” if the reticular veins are not treated. Why don’t all doctors treat veins this way? Sadly because the training of some doctors is less than optimal or their real interest lies elsewhere. For deeper veins treated with either Ultrasound Guided Sclerotherapy or Endovenous Laser Ablation , the results are invariably long term and often permanent with any recurrence usually minor in nature and easily treated. These successful results will only occur if the treating doctor is very well trained and experienced . Comments (1) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink Trackback Link http://www.thelegveinclinic.com.au/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=3411&PostID=257153&A=Trackback Trackbacks Post has no trackbacks. Questions?  Or like to leave your feedback? Helen commented on 02-Nov-2011 06:24 PM You have a website full of helpful information, great to see. I have a question regarding the above blog post. It sounds like if we have vein treatments of any sort they need a recheck? What time space do you recommend for a check up on varicose veins? Share your comments about this post or feel free to ask a question. Name (optional) Website (optional) Email Address (optional) To help us avoid email spam, please enter the letters in box below Your comment Previous 1 2 Next Recent Blog Posts Can I be guaranteed that the treatment will be successful? When should I start treatment? Why you should get your varicose or spider veins treated? Who is at risk of getting blood clots on plane trips? How can I prevent varicose veins and spider veins? How are varicose and spider veins treated? How varicose veins are diagnosed Are varicose veins and spider veins dangerous? What are the symptoms of varicose veins? Why varicose veins and spider veins usually appear in the legs Blog Tags non-surgically supplements, natural therapy standard sclerotherapy stripping veins laser ablation treatment cost varicose veins self care varicose veins treatment ultra sound guided sclerotherapy spider veins treatment costs laser ablation (13) non-surgically (7) self care varicose veins (8) spider veins (15) standard sclerotherapy (14) stripping veins (4) supplements, natural therapy (1) treatment (18) treatment cost (3) treatment costs (1) ultra sound guided sclerotherapy (13) varicose veins (27) Blog Archive April 2012 (3) March 2012 (1) December 2011 (4) November 2011 (7) May 2011 (1) LEG VEIN TREATMENTS Standard Sclerotherapy Ultrasound Guided Sclerotherapy Endovenous Laser Ablation (ELA) QUESTIONS? Search for an answer here What sort of veins do you have? YOU CAN ALSO FIND US OUR RSS CHANNEL PRINTER FRIENDLY PAGE Print this page Share | THE LEG VEIN CLINIC Dr Paul Varcoe, Fellow of Australasian College of Phlebology Shop 14, Victoria Square, Broadbeach  Queensland  4218  Australia