
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 23:42:12 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Impact of urinary incontinence on quality of life Pelviperineology A multidisciplinary pelvic floor journal Current Issue | Past Issues | About Us | Search Issue: Vol 28 N.2 June 2009 Navigation Home Past Issues Site Map Information For Authors About US Help Links AAVIS Pelvic Floor Digest Search Editors: Giuseppe Dodi
Bruce Farnsworth Associate Joint Managing Editor: Florian Wagenlehner Co-Editors: Nucelio Lemos Akin Sivaslioglu advertisement THIS ARTICLE Top Full Conclusions Acknowledgements References Download Pdf HOME This Article See also: This
    Issue Complete PDF Pelviperineology June 2009 publication in PDF format
    [2.2 Mb] Understanding Chronic Pelvic Pain by M. Jantos Functional urological complications after colo-rectal cancer surgery by A. Calpista et al. The International Continence Society and Integral Theory Systems for management of the incontinent female. A comparative analysis by Peter Petros Colonic manometry and sacral nerve stimulation in patients with severe constipation by Philip G. Dinning Short-IPGH system for assessment of pelvic floor disease by B. Farnsworth - G. Dodi The effect of suture material on outcomes of surgery for pelvic organ prolapse by H. B. Goldstein et al. The
    impact of birth history on pelvic floor function: a retrospective assessment
    of 10,125 patients by V. Leanza et al. Bowel dysfunction in spinal cord injury patients: pathophysiology and management by Gabriele Bazzocchi et al. Current Issue » advertisement Review article Pdf [116 Kb] Impact of urinary incontinence on quality of life Original article by STAVROS CHARALAMBOUS - ARGYRIOS TRANTAFYLIDIS Department of Urology, Ippokratio General Hospital - Thessaloniki, Greece Abstract: Urinary incontinence (UI) is a relatively common condition in middle-aged and older women. Although it is not a life-threatening
condition, UI negatively impacts health-related quality of life (QOL) by affecting daily living activities, sexual and interpersonal relationships,
psychological well being and social interactions. Some studies also indicate that the social problems associated with UI grow with time, but it
is not clear if that is a function of increasing severity of the condition, or the particular adaptations required for coping with this problem. In
this article we evaluate recent scientific observations regarding the impact of UI in QoL. Key Words: Urinary incontinence; Quality of Life; Women. Urinary incontinence is frequently associated with a negative
impact of quality of life of the patient. It is not really
a disease, but rather a symptom, as a result of either a bladder
or sphincter disorder. Urinary incontinence is defined by
the International Continence Society (ICS) as "involuntary
loss of urine". The symptomatology of incontinence may
be subdivided into three categories: stress urinary incontinence ,
which is caused by "the involuntary loss by effort,
exercise, sneeze or cough"; urge incontinence , which is
the "involuntary loss of urine accompanied by or following
a sudden compelling desire to void which is difficult to
defer"; mixed urinary incontinence , which is defined
as "the involuntary urine loss accompanied by urgency and
present by effort, exercise, sneeze or cough". 1 Women are
more prone to the condition than men. This is because the
incidence for each type of urinary incontinence in females
ranges between 10% and 58% while incidence in men is
estimated to be between 3% and 11% depending on the population
checked and the definition used for incontinence. 2 Although it is not a life-threatening condition, urinary
incontinence has a physical and psychological affect on the
patients, while at the same time it charges them with an
additional financial burden. According to the World Health
Organization (WHO), health is defined as the "condition of
total physical, emotional and social health and prosperity",
disproving the previous opinion of the absence, mostly, of
disease or disability. Even though, the prevalence of urinary
incontinence is similar to other chronic diseases, research
with regards to its effect on the quality of life of the
patients have started only recently in the last fifteen years.
Researchers have designed, developed and suggested the
use of various questionnaires which are completed by the
patients themselves, whereby via the appropriate questions
the degree of the effect of urinary incontinence on the
patients' health and generally on their quality of life is
revealed, graded and evaluated more objectively. 3 Urinary incontinence, in whichever form, sweepingly
affects the life of the patients. It is conceived as a lack of
health which generates feelings of anger and sadness, as
well as embarrassment and depression. Patients avoid social
gatherings and lose self-confidence, which has a proportional
impact on their social interactions, their sexual life
and emotional health .4, 5 Apart from the emotional repercussions,
however, urinary incontinence is a risk factor for
other physical conditions and diseases, while simultaneously
being a financial burden on the patient and his or her
family. In table 1 , the physical, psychological and social
impacts of the disease are summarized. The ability of skin being a barrier between the internal
and the external environment depends on its integrity, the
presence of internal and external cellular lipids and its pH. A disorder of its integrity or its histological structure, allows
for the development of microbes such as staphylococcus.
Secondary infection by Candida albicans is also frequent,
which is also favoured by the humidity of the region. The
contact of urine with skin also aids in the creation of paratrimma,
as well as folliculitis. The perineal dermatitis or
incontinence dermatitis refers to the dermatitis caused by
urinary or fecal incontinence. It causes severe pain and
inflammation in the vagina, the perineum and the buttocks.
The increased humidity of the skin ultimately causes a
mechanical damage. Erosions by friction are caused by half
of the energy on wet skin than on dry skin. Therefore,
urinary incontinence is a major risk factor for decubitus
ulceration.6 Frequency, nocturia, urgency, as well as urge
incontinence have also been shown to increase the risk of
falls, which may lead to fractures and other morbidities. 7 The direct relationship between urinary incontinence,
stress and depression is already adequately documented. In
a population study of 5701 women aged from 50 to 69 years
old, Nygaard et al., discovered that women with severe urinary
incontinence had an 80% greater possibility of presenting
deep depression while women with incontinence of mild to average degree had 40% greater possibility of
presenting depression. 8 In another study, Mellvile et al studied
218 patients with urinary incontinence and found that
major depression and panic disorders very often correspond
to women with urinary incontinence. In patients with urge
or mixed incontinence the possibility is much higher for a
psychological disorder to coexist. Coexistent severe depression
significantly affects the degree in which the patient perceives
incontinence, which is significant in altering quality
of life and general functioning of the patient. 9 In a third
study in Baltimore, 5.024 patients were enrolled in order
to identify the prevalence of overactive bladder symptoms
and its effect on the quality of life. It was concluded that an
overactive bladder, with or without incontinence, presents
a clinically significant impact on the quality of life, on the
quality of sleep and psychological health, both in men and
women. 10 In another prospective study of 82 women, the
correlation between depression and incontinence is identified,
especially in urge incontinence. While only 19.5% of
women with effort incontinence report clinically significant
depression, 44% of women with urge incontinence suffers
from depression. In a recent mail study with 3.536 women,
the incidence of depression appears to be analogous to the
degree of incontinence, as well as to the degree of social isolation
and quality of life. 12 Bogner et al showed that when
urinary incontinence is severe enough, the incidence of a
stress disorder increased by 4 times. 13 Finally, a large and
long-term study with 12568 women aged over 40 years,
showed that stress and depression episodes may be predicted
by the preexistent urge incontinence. In this study, 56.5%
of those who answered reported intense and frequent stress,
while 37.6% suffered from depression of severe degree. 14 Recent guidelines recommend that women with medium
and severe incontinence be screened for coexisting depression
and to be treated accordingly. 12 Heavy psychological issues in adults may sometimes have
roots in continence status, urinary control and independence
acquired during childhood. As children approach the age
of 2 years, they recognize that they can control when they
sleep, when and what they eat and when they urinate and
thus they acquire a feeling of independence and personality.
This important initial stage of development prepares the
child for the life ahead. When, however, later in life incontinence
is exhibited, this regression and loss of control may
have serious consequences. Self-confidence is reduced by
the disability to control the bladder and by matters such as
cleanliness, which already contribute to the psychological
problems. Often, too, this may be accompanied by alienation
from family and friends and this may be additionally
detrimental to the patient's self-confidence. 15 The above studies all demonstrate that urinary incontinence
is an obstacle in good physical and social well-being
and consequently it is an obstacle to the patient's maintenance
of general fitness. In a large European randomised
study with 9487 women, more than 60% of them with
medium to severe symptoms reported restriction in their
activities, including physical exercise, due to a possible
incontinence episode. 16 Brown et al reviewed the information
collected by more than 41000 women in the Australian
Longitudinal Study on Women's Health (ALSWH) and
found that more than 33.3% of women between the ages of
45 and 50 report that they avoid athletic activities fearing an
incontinence episode during exercise. 17 Finally, in an American
study 3364 women were examined using the International
Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ). In this study,
it was revealed that women with severe incontinence have
2.64 times greater possibility not to exercise, in comparison
to continent women. Also, 85.3% of women with severe
incontinence consider their problem as being a chief obstacle
to physical exercise, compared to the 64.5% of women
with average incontinence. 18 And of course, apart from the
important psychosocial parameters, avoidance of physical
exercise increases the risk for many other diseases, such as
osteoporosis, hypertension, coronary heart disease, etc. 17 Urinary Incontinence is related to reduced personal and
social life and to reduced total quality of life. It may seriously
affect sociability, and the social gatherings the patient
attends are modified so that possible unpleasant moment
and embarrassment by sudden loss of urine are avoided. 19 Urge incontinence especially may have an especially intense
and negative impact on the quality of life as it affects social
presence, psychological mood, work environment, family
surroundings and fitness and sexual life. 5 Urgent incontinence
affects healthy way of life than incontinence by effort,
because a hyperactive bladder is harder to control, more
often it will interrupt sleep or other daily activities and more
possible may lead to loss of urine of more than 50 ml, as
may occur in a typical episode of incontinence by effort. 20 Various ways and strategies that the patients' uses and more
especially the avoidance of social activity due to possible
"leak" may further affect health. 21 The matter of incontinence is often just a reason for the
loss of independence for elderly people. In a study, urinary
incontinence is "incriminated" as a steady prediction factor
either for hospitalization, either for being committed to an
institution, with relative hospitalization risk 1.3 in women
and 1.5 in men and relative institutionalization risk 2 and
3.2 respectively. 22 Urge incontinence is also a predictor for
institutionalization, with relative risk being 3.07 (95% CI
1,24-7,50) in comparison to 1.15 for the age (95% CI ,
1,10-1,19) and 1.22 for depression (95% CI 1,27-3,21). 23 Also important, is the disorder caused by urinary incontinence
in normal sexual function. Shaw in 2002 presented a
review of articles in English language since 1980, whereby
sexual dysfunction incidence, due to urinary incontinence
ranged from 2% to 64%. 24 In an Austrian study, which evaluated
incontinence by information gathered from questionnaires,
it was found that from the total of patients who report
urinary incontinence, 30.5% reports simultaneous sexual
dysfunction, as a consequence of loss of urine. 25 In another
study, which evaluated the impact of urinary incontinence
in sexual function in premenopausal women, researchers
discovered that urinary incontinence, both by stress and
urge, significantly reduce sexual function in sexually active
women, with patients reporting lower scores of desire, stimulation,
lubrication of the vagina, orgasm and satisfaction,
but not in pain. 4 Salonia et al established 46% of 216
women, who were diagnosed with urinary incontinence with
the use of questionnaires, physical and urodynamics examination,
exhibited sexual dysfunction. Sexual dysfunction in
these women, was diagnosed with the FSFI (female sexual
function index). Of these women 34% reports loss of sexual
desire, 23% difficulty in sexual stimulation and 11% complained
about difficulty in orgasm. 26 In another multicentre
study, with mailed questionnaires which concerned urinary
incontinence after surgical operation for pelvic organ prolapse,
Morgan et al. found that incontinence in these women
was related to low possibility of sexual activity. Among sexually
active women, the risk of sexual dysfunction was analogous
to the degree of incontinence. 27 The total impact of urinary incontinence on quality of life
was estimated in an Austrian study, which evaluated 2,498
women (mean age 49.7 years old) and 1,236 men (mean age
48.6 years old). It was discovered that 65.7% of the women
and 58.3% of the men consider that the disorder was detrimental
to their quality of life and indeed 18.3% and 16.6% stated that the detriment was average to grave. Additionally,
this detriment was correlated statistically significantly both
with the degree and the incidence as well as with the number
of pads and other urine collection devices. The impact on
way of life is multi-factored causing problems in social
activities, in maintaining a good physical exercise though
sports and in assurance of independence. 25 Kelleher et al designed and created the King's Health
Questionnaire (KHQ) a questionnaire of 21 points to estimate
the quality of life of women with urinary incontinence.
In the initial evaluation it was discovered that the great
majority of women, in spite of the urodynamic findings, felt
that incontinence affected their quality of life negatively,
with incidence of 66.6% among women with mixed type
incontinence up to 81.2% among women with hyperactive
detrusor. The most frequent complaints were irritation by
humidity, smell and the need to wear pads, change their wet
underwear regularly, restrict their fluid input and avoid specific
clothes. 28 CONCLUSIONS The destructive consequences of urinary incontinence to
      the psychology and the sexual and social life of the patients,
      in combination with the significant financial impact on
      the society, requires a change in the way of thinking with
      regards diagnosis and treatment of this quite wide-spread
      disorder. And even though full continence is not always feasible,
      important improvement may usually be achieved in
      most patients, so that a normal way of life can be maintained. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS to Zoe Charalambous for editing
B.A (Hons) English Literature and Creative writing (Warwick),
M.A Classics (UCL). REFERENCES Abrams P et al. The standardisation of terminology in lower
urinary tract function: report from the standardisation sub-committee
of the International Continence Society. Urology 2003;
61: 37-49. Hunskaar et al. Epidemiology and natural history of urinary
      incontinence. In: Incontinence. Edited by P. Abrams, S. Khoury
      and A. Wein. London: Health Publications, pp. 199-226,
      1999. Corcos J et al. Quality assessment in men and women with urinary
      incontinence. J Urol 2002; 168: 896-905. Aslan G et al. Sexual function in women with urinary incontinence.
      Int J Impot Res 2005; 17: 248-251. Tubaro A. Defining overactive bladder: epidemiology and
      burden of disease. Urology 2004; 64: 2-6. Farage MA et al. Incontinence in the aged: contact dermatitis
      and other cutaneous consequences. Contact Dermatitis 2007;
      57: 211-217. Brown JS et al. Urinary incontinence: does it increase risk for
      falls and fractures? J Am Geriatr Soc 2000; 48: 721-725. Nygaard I et al. Urinary incontinence and depression in middle-
      aged United States women. Obstet Gynecol 2003; 101:
      149-156. Melville et al. Prevalence of comorbid psychiatric illness and
      its impact on symptom perception, quality of life, and functional
      status in women with urinary incontinence. Am J Obstet
      Gynecol 2002; 187: 80-7. Stewart WF et al. Prevalence and burden of overactive bladder
      in the United States. World J Urol 2003; 20: 327-36. Stach-Lempinen Bet al. Severe depression determines quality
of life in urinary incontinent women. Neurourol Urodyn 2003;
22: 563-568. Melville JL et al. Incontinence severity and major depression
      in incontinent women. Obstet Gynecol 2005; 106: 585-592. Bogner HR et al. Anxiety disorders and disability secondary to
      urinary incontinence among adults over age 50. Int J Psychiatry
      Med 2002; 32: 141-154. Perry S et al. An investigation of the relationship between anxiety
      and depression and urge incontinence in women: development
      of a psychological model. Br J Health Psychol 2006; 11:
      463-482. Miner PB. Economic and Personal Impact of Fecal and Urinary
      Incontinence. Gastroenterology 2004; 126: S8-S13. DuBeau CE et al. The impact of urge urinary incontinence on
      quality of life: importance of patients' perspective and explanatory
      style. J Am Geriatr Soc 1998; 46: 683-692. Brown WJ et al. Too wet to exercise? Leaking urine as a barrier
      to physical activity in women. J Sci Med Sport 2001; 4:
      373-378. Nygaard I et al. Is urinary incontinence a barrier to exercise in
      women? Obstet Gynecol 2005; 106: 307-314. Millard RJ, Moore KH. Urinary incontinence: the Cinderella
      subject. Med J Aust 1996; 165: 124-125. Specht JKP. 9 myths of incontinence in older adults: both clinicians
      and the over-65 set need to know more. Am J Nurs 2005;
      105: 58-68. Miller J, Hoffman E. The causes and consequences of overactive
      bladder. J Womens Health 2006; 15: 251-260. Thom DH et al. Medically recognized urinary incontinence and
      risks of hospitalization, nursing home admission and mortality.
      Age Ageing 1997; 26: 367-374. Nuotio M et al. Predictors of institutionalization in an older
      population during a 13-year period: the effect of urge incontinence.
      J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2003; 58: 756-762. Shaw C. A systematic review of the literature on the prevalence
      of sexual impairment in women with urinary incontinence and
      the prevalence of urinary leakage during sexual activity. Eur
      Urol 2002; 42: 432-440. Temml C et al. Urinary incontinence in both sexes: prevalence
      rates and impact on quality of life and sexual life. Neurourol
      Urodyn 2000; 19: 259-271. Salonia A et al. Sexual dysfunction is common in women with
      lower urinary tract symptoms and urinary incontinence: results
      of a cross-sectional study. Eur Urol 2004; 45: 642-8; discussion
      648. Morgan DM et al. Are persistent or recurrent symptoms of urinary
      incontinence after surgery associated with adverse effects
      on sexual activity or function? Int Urogynecol J Pelvic Floor
      Dysfunct 2008; 19: 509-15. Kelleher CJ et al. A new questionnaire to assess the quality of
      life of urinary incontinent women. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1997;
      104: 1374-1379. Corresponding Author: STAVROS N. CHARALAMBOUS MD, PhD, FEBU Urological Surgeon
Associate Director
Head of Female Urology, Neurourology and Urodynamics
Ippokratio General Hospital
Thessaloniki, Greece email: st.charalambous @ ippokratio.gr Current Issue | Past Issues | Contact us | Site Map | Credits | Help Contents Copyright © 2007