Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 25 Oct 2006 12:44:57 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "cf76b96033f8c61:a33d"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 07:58:04 GMT
Connection: close

herb data, Psyllium, Plantago ispagula, Plantago ovata, Ispaghula, Spogel Seeds,Ishabgol, Snigdhajira, Isapghul, Plantago, holisticonline.com Home Search Holisticonline Grandmas 
			Remedies Quality vitamins,  natural remedies Specialgifts.com Big savings on gemstones, jewelry and gifts. Alternative
    Medicine Stress
    Management Conditions/
      Treatments Preferred
    Providers Holistic Living Alternative
    Therapies Acupuncture Aromatherapy Ayurveda Biofeedback Chelation
    Therapy Herbal
    Medicine Homeopathy Humor
    Therapy Hydrotherapy Imagery Light Therapy Massage Meditation NLP Nutrition Prayer/
      Spiritual Reiki Shiatsu Yoga FAQ (Health) Feedback Register Media Herb Information Name: Psyllium Biological

    Name: Plantago ispagula, Plantago ovata Other

    Names: Ispaghula, Spogel Seeds,Ishabgol, Snigdhajira, Isapghul, Psyllium, Plantago Description: This herb is found in India and Iran. Parts

    Used: Seeds Active Compounds: Psyllium is a bulk-forming laxative and is high in both fiber and mucilage. Psyllium seeds contain 10-30% mucilage. The laxative properties of psyllium are due to the swelling of the husk when it comes in contact with water. This forms a gelatinous mass and keeps the feces hydrated and soft. The resulting bulk stimulates a reflex contraction of the walls of the bowel, followed by emptying. History: In addition to its traditional and current use for constipation, psyllium was also used topically to treat skin irritations, including poison ivy reactions and insect bites and stings. It has also been used in traditional herbal systems of China and India to treat diarrhea, hemorrhoids, bladder problems, and high blood pressure. Remedies

    For : Demulcent, emollient, laxative, diuretic Useful for: • atherosclerosis • constipation • diabetes • diarrhea • hemorrhoids • high cholesterol • high triglycerides • irritable bowel syndrome • psoriasis • weight loss and obesity Dosage: 1-2 tbs. in warm or cool water, stirred until it thickens into a gel. Many people take 7.5 grams of the seeds or 5 grams of the husks one to two times per day, with water or juice. It’s important to maintain adequate fluid intake when using psyllium. Safety: Using psyllium in recommended amounts is generally safe. People with chronic constipation should seek the advice of a health care professional. Side effects, such as allergic skin and respiratory reactions to psyllium dust, have largely been limited to people working in plants manufacturing psyllium products. No other information about the safety of this herb is available. Use caution. Ayurvedic herbs are often taken in combination to neutralize the toxicity one herb with the opposing effect of other. Do not take except under the supervision of a qualified professional. [ Look For Another Herb ][ HolisticOnLine Home ] HolisticOnLine is developed and maintained

by International Cyber Business

Services, Inc. Send mail to: info@holisticonline.com with

questions or comments about this web site. Copyright © 1998-2000