Connection: close
Server: Nginx / Varnish
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://hongkonghypnotherapy.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding

smoking cessation «  Hong Kong Hypnotherapy Facebook Hong Kong Hypnotherapy Front About me Blog Frequently asked questions Contact Hong Kong Hypnotherapy Blogs tagged: smoking cessation Achieve mastery over your New Year’s resolutions              – an introduction to using hypnosis for weight management, smoking cessation and stopping nail-biting December 18th, 2011 Need a boost to help you stick to your resolutions? Come and find out why more and more people are turning to hypnosis to help them lose weight, quit smoking and stop nail-biting. In this session, you will learn about the role the subconscious mind plays in forming and holding on to bad habits and [...] TEENAGE SMOKERS AND ADULT SMOKERS: WHAT MOTIVATES YOU? May 22nd, 2011 I am doing a small scale study to investigate key differences between adult and adolescent smokers in terms of motivation to smoke and motivation to quit and offering participants a discount on the smoking cessation package that I offer. Whilst doing research for World No Tobacco Day (31st May), I came across the findings, by [...] Making New Year’s Resolutions work February 3rd, 2011 You may have reneged on New Year’s resolutions you made in January, but it is never too late to get back on track and the Chinese New Year provides the perfect opportunity to renew your resolutions and stick with them. For those who missed my workshop on this topic at The New Age Shop last [...] Find us on Facebook Testimonials A thoroughly professional service from beginning to end. We set clear goals and a choice of approaches was offered in order to achieve them. Back up materials to supplement sessions have enabled me to maintain initial progress. I felt reassured at every stage by Fiona’s calm, persistent support. Thank you so much! — Gillian Workshops I will be holding regular workshops at the New Age shop in Central throughout the year. Please check in regularly for details here . Tags anxiety fear finding self habits hong kong hypnosis hypnotherapy IBS irritable bowel syndrome love nail-biting new year's resolutions noise phobia quit quit smoking relationship self-hypnosis smoking smoking ban smoking cessation speech stop smoking stress stress management studies subconscious mind valentine wedding weight weight loss workshops world no tobacco day Recent Posts New Location Finding that perfect relationship Merry Christmas Scheduled workshops Achieve mastery over your New Year’s resolutions Professional Membership The General Hypnotherapy Register For the maintenance of good practice, the promotion of unity and the encouragement of continuing development within the profession of Hypnotherapy. The General Hypnotherapy Standards Council The GHSC acts as a link between the hypnotherapy industry and the Department of Health (DH), who has actively encouraged the Council to continue its work towards promoting the status of Voluntary Self-regulation (VSR) for the hypnotherapy profession. Hypnotherapy Links Cognitive reactions to smoking relapse, New Scientist Does Hypnosis Help Stop Smoking? How Effective Is Hypnosis in Relieving Pain? Hypnosis and Pain Reduction: The Latest Research Hypnosis has 'real' brain effect Hypnotherapist Register Hypnotherapy and hypnosis training courses in the UK from the LCCH Hypnotherapy and hypnosis training courses in the UK, Malaysia and Singapore from the LCCH Reflections Bookshop & Resource Center UK Hypnotherapy D