
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 06:03:03 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.molecularist.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Probiotics | Molecularist Home About Where I’ve spoken, where I’ll speak My narrative writing Archives Molecularist a person who creates, modifies, and hacks molecules and then makes them do wondrous things Older Entries » Hacking the Microbiome for Fun and Profit: Can Killing Just One Mouth Bacterium Stop Cavities? | Discover Magazine “A mouthwash that kills S. mutans and leaves the rest of the bacteria to take over S. mutans‘s real estate could spell the end of cavities. In a small clinical study last year, one team found that one application of the mouthwash knocked down S. mutans levels, and that harmless bacteria grew back in its place. If the mouthwash pans out, it could join the ranks of an emerging new type of treatment: better living through hacking the microbiome.” This is really cool. And this article get extra points for the endnotes on probiotics and fecal transplants. I totally believe we are entering an age where we are going to manipulate our microbiome for health and medicine. [via @edyong209] Read this article… February 15th, 2012 | Tags: antimicrobial peptides , bacteria , microbes , mouth , mouthwash , practical microbiology , probiotics |  Category: Innovation , Links of note , Science | One comment UM Carey Law | Federal Regulation of Probiotics An Analysis of the Existing Regulatory Framework and Recommendations for Alternative Frameworks A team of researchers at the University of Maryland Baltimore is studying federal regulation of probiotics under a grant from NIH’s Human Microbiome Project (HMP). A portion of HMP funds were set aside to study the Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications (often referred to as the ELSI issues) of the Project’s scientific goals. The probiotics project is an interdisciplinary collaboration between faculty members from the University of Maryland Schools of Law, Pharmacy and Medicine. This site is chock-full of info on probiotics policy, regulations, and science. Really good stuff. Read this article… February 14th, 2012 | Tags: interesting , probiotics , reviews , studies , website legal |  Category: Links of note , Science , The Narrative | Leave a comment PLoS Biology: How Bacteria Turn Fiber into Food “Now, a new study by Eric Martens, David Bolam, and colleagues has looked into how a pair of the most common species of gut bacteria metabolize polysaccharides, showing that each bacterium is highly specialized. Using a high-throughput system for feeding the bacteria dozens of kinds of carbohydrates, one at a time, and tracking the bacteria’s gene expression, they were able to see how these microbes have tailored themselves to fill specific niches in the gut.” This is a really good study. For me, a better understanding of the gut metabolic ecology will allow for the development of better probiotics. One interesting finding in this study is that some bug don’t grow well on simple sugar because their sensors are built for complex sugars. Made me think of folks in developed world and what effect eating more simple sugars (high-fructose corn syrup) has on gut flora and any consequential obesity. Read this article… February 11th, 2012 | Tags: bacteria , bacteria fiber digestion , carbohydrates , genetics , gut , metabolism , Microbe , probiotics , science , sugars , summary |  Category: Links of note , Science , The Narrative | Leave a comment Friendly bacteria move in mysterious ways : Nature News “Many yoghurts are loaded with live bacteria, and labelled with claims that consuming these microorganisms can be good for your health. But a study published today shows that such yoghurts have only subtle effects on the bacteria already in the gut and do not replace them.” Yes, but the paper goes to point out that both in humans and mice, there was an upregulation of polysaccharide metabolism genes in the existing gut microbes. Hm, there are some serious implications there. Read this article… February 10th, 2012 | Tags: biology , medicine , microbes , probiotics , science , study , yogurt |  Category: Links of note , Science | One comment Probiotics (MCP-1084) – Global Industry Analysts, Inc. A Global Strategic Business Report This report analyzes the worldwide markets for Probiotics in US$ Million. The report provides separate comprehensive analytics for the US, Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Latin America. Annual estimates and forecasts are provided for each region for the period 2007 through 2015. Also, a seven-year historic analysis is provided for these markets. The report profiles 119 companies including many key and niche players such as BioGaia Biologics AB, Chr. Hansen A/S, Danisco A/S, Groupe Danone, Institut Rosell, Lifeway Foods, Inc., Natren, Inc., Nestlé Nutrition, Probi AB, Seven Seas Ireland Ltd., Stonyfield Farm, Valio Ltd., and Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd. Market data and analytics are derived from primary and secondary research. Company profiles are mostly extracted from URL research and reported select online sources. Alas, too expensive for me to purchase. But if I were really in the business, probably worth it. Read this article… February 2nd, 2012 | Tags: analysis , business , market , probiotics , report |  Category: Links of note , Strategy | Leave a comment Global probiotics market approaching $30bn by 2015: Report “Global Industry Analysts (GIA) predicts the global probiotics market will be worth $28.8bn by 2015, even though the market is still considered to be in infancy. “ I like this. Read this article… February 2nd, 2012 | Tags: business , industry , market trend , probiotics |  Category: Links of note , The Narrative | Leave a comment Probiotic-prebiotic combination may ease eczema in kids: Study “Supplements containing a combination of Lactobacillus salivarius and fructo-oligosaccharide for eight weeks were associated with significant reductions in measures of the severity of eczema, compared with a control group receiving only prebiotics, according to findings published in the British Journal of Dermatology.” In addition to the usual yogurt bugs, I am starting to see salivarius popping up more frequently. It’s from the mouth, by the way. Read this article… February 1st, 2012 | Tags: bacteria , children , health , medicine , microbes , practical microbes , prebiotics , probiotics , study |  Category: Links of note , Science , Strategy | Leave a comment Trend: Probiotics, and a commentary When I lived in the US in the 90s, it was hard to find live-culture yogurt in supermarkets (you could find them in natural food stores, of course). The only one I could find was Stonyfield yogurt. When I lived in Finland, not only were there a bunch of live-culture milk products, but there was one in particular “ Valio A+ ” that was specifically recommended for women to balance their flora. Now back in the US, it’s hard not to find live-culture yogurt, and some are specifically marketed, yes, for women to balance their flora. Furthermore, the use of live bacterial cultures for health purposes, called probiotics, has become mainstream enough that you can find probiotic supplements for children in the supermarket. What does this mean? It means that folks are becoming aware of functional foods, of the importance of microorganism in their diet, and that the feeding desire to find a short cut (a pill rather than eating wholesome yogurt) is always a good business. I’ve been seeking out all these probiotic products to get an idea of what’s out there, what the message is, and, for me, always on the look out for practical use of microbes, I’ve been trying to understand what microorganisms are in fashion. OK, so the science behind probiotics is still in progress, so I will not go into that right now. But, going on the premise that yogurt is the gold standard for beneficial live (with microorganisms) food, then my standard for all probiotic products used for digestive health is Stonyfield’s yogurt. Stonyfield’s has 6 bacteria (S thermophilus, L bulgaricus, L acidophilus, Bifidus, L casei, and L rhamnosus). I’d say that most of the products I have seen have one or more of these bugs. There are some proprietary sub-species and I’ve been pleased to see a few products with S salivarius or some other bacteria. For me, the type, variety, and number of bacteria in a probiotic food or supplement is key. And I think it’s just snake oil if the product only has one bug. Nonetheless, I think as probiotics go mainstream, buyers will be more astute as to what they are looking for. Also, I hope that new applications show up, beyond gut and vaginal flora health (I can think of a few). What I do know, is that doctors are starting to suggest probiotics to patients on antibiotics or with digestive issues such as colitis or C diff.* And that’s great. Do you eat probiotic foods or take supplements? Send me pics of the ones you see or take! I could/should create a database of products and attach reviews or commentary. Hm…. not another project…. *Ego boost: A gastroenterologist aked me recently what probiotics I recommended. Ha! My first probiotic consulting gig? January 27th, 2012 | Tags: bacteria , digestion , gut , health , microbes , practical microbes , probiotics , stonyfield , valio , yogurt |  Category: Strategy , The Narrative | Leave a comment Health benefits and health claims of probiotics: bridging science and marketing – BJN “Health claims for probiotics are evaluated by the Panel on Dietetic Products, Nutrition and Allergies of the European Food Safety Authority. Despite a substantial amount of basic and clinical research on the beneficial effects of probiotics, all of the evaluated claim applications thus far have received a negative opinion. With the restrictions on the use of clinical endpoints, validated biomarkers for gut health and immune health in relation to reduction in disease risk are needed. Clear-cut criteria for design as well as evaluation of future studies are needed. An open dialogue between basic and clinical scientists, regulatory authorities, food and nutrition industry, and consumers could bridge the gap between science and marketing of probiotics.” Not sure what to make of this other than the comment that ‘clear-cut criteria’ will be needed to actually turn claims into science. Read this article… January 19th, 2012 | Tags: evaluation , health , human , medicine , probiotics |  Category: Innovation , Links of note , Science , The Narrative | Leave a comment Viral infection: The gut microbiota: friend or foe? : Nature Reviews Microbiology “We normally think of the gut microbiota as the ‘friendly’ bacteria that carry out many beneficial functions, including protecting us from infection. But two studies now identify a different side to the gut microbiota, showing that it can actually facilitate viral infection and promote transmission.” Another interesting review that is in a CLOSED ACCESS paper. The barrier to casual reading is too high. Read this article… December 3rd, 2011 | Tags: bacteria , gut , microbes , microbiology , microbiota , probiotics |  Category: Links of note , Science | One comment Older Entries » Seek and ye shall find Recent posts A human gut microbial gene catalogue established by metagenomic sequencing :  Nature Genome Sequence of E. coli O104:H4 Leads to Rapid Development of a Targeted Antimicrobial Agent against This Emerging Pathogen – PLoS ONE Bacterial genomics: A new source of antimicrobial targets : Nature Reviews Microbiology A Method for Generation Phage Cocktail with Great Therapeutic Potential – PLoS ONE Macro and Micro Diversity of Clostridium difficile Isolates from Diverse Sources and Geographical Locations – PLoS ONE Tags antibiotics bacteria beer biology brewing business cool design diybio drugs ecology energy environment evolution food fungi future genetics genomics gut health history humans interesting medicine microbes microbiology microbiome molecularbiology power practicalmicrobes practical microbes probiotics publishing recycling research science sustainability sxsw sxsw2012 synthbio syntheticbiology trend virus waste Copyright © 2012 Molecul