Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Back Exercises  | Frame Chiropractic and Acupuncture The Toledo Chiropractor to see - Chiropractor Toledo Get Your Back Back! An estimated four out of every five adults suffers from back pain at some point in their lives. Many turn to prescription and over-the-counter drugs to relieve the pain, but this only masks the symptoms; it does nothing to get at the root cause of the pain. Chiropractic and back strengthening exercises are far more beneficial and effective because they harness the body’s own natural healing abilities to go after the source of the pain, rather than simply fooling the body’s warning system by relieving the pain. Many find that performing some simple, at-home back exercises helps relieve pain and makes the muscles in the back, hips, thighs and stomach stronger and more flexible. These exercises work well in conjunction with a program of aerobic exercise such as swimming, running, walking or bicycling. It is important to remember that if you feel any pain at all when performing any of these stretching exercises, you should stop immediately so you do not make the condition worse than it already is. The following are good beginner back strengthening exercises: Wall Slides Lean your back against a wall with your feet about 12 inches out from the wall. Hold your abdominal muscles tight while you slowly bend both knees 45 degrees. Hold this position for 45 seconds. Slowly return to upright position. Repeat 10 times. Heel Raises Stand with weight evenly distributed on both feet. Slowly raise your heels up and then lower them. Repeat 10 times. Straight Leg Raises Lie on your back with one leg straight and one knee bent. Tighten your abdominal muscles to stabilize your lower back. Slowly lift straight leg straight up about 6 to 12 inches and hold for 1 to 5 seconds. Slowly lower leg back down. Repeat 10 times. Do the same with other leg. Back Leg Swing Stand behind a chair and hold on to the top of it with both hands. Swing one leg back and up, keeping the knee straight. Slowly lower the leg. Do the same with the other leg. Repeat 5 times with each leg. Perform these exercises on a regular basis, along with regular chiropractic checkups, and I bet you'll notice a reduction in the severity of your back pain in no time at all! Make an Appointment Email Doctor Search: Patient Login Dr. Mickey Asks... How do you know when you're healthy? Ask most Toledo residents this simple question and you're likely to hear, "When you feel good" or "When you're at your proper weight for your height" or "When you have lots of energy and vitality." Great answers. But our chiropractic patients know that true health is when your body is working as it was designed. True health is how you function, not how you feel. Why are some people allergic to pollen and others aren't? It's not the pollen. Chiropractors know that if it were, everyone would be allergic to pollen, nuts and pet dander. But that's not the case. It's the person, not the pollen! If you live in Toledo and your stress levels are high, then each year the grass, the trees or the weeds put your nervous system over the top. Many report that chiropractic care helps reduce the frequency and severity of their allergic response. Chiropractic Website by Perfect Patients. Copyright | Legal | Privacy | Sitemap | Toledo Chiropractor HOME About Us Meet Dr. Mickey Frame Acupuncture MUA Facts About MUA Spinal Decompression Our Techniques What To Expect Your First Visi