<7% reduction from circumcision. Condom use and ART coverage, alone or in combination, were found to
reduce new HIV infections by from 64% to 95% by 2025 and to reduce
mortality by 10% to 34%. Circumcision brought about a 3% to 13%
reduction in new HIV infections and a 2% to 4% reduction in mortality;
according to Lima, its impact “was overshadowed when combined with the
other interventions." “We were surprised by how little effect it had,” she said. [emphasis mine.] The solution to the HIV/AIDS epidemic has been well known for a long time. The early prevention efforts in Uganda and Brazil's leading example of universal access to HIV medications and widespread distribution of condoms has shown in the real world precisely what this mathematical model has shown in the virtual world. Circumcision has no such real world corollary. In fact, there are examples of where it has had no discernable effect, such as in Lesotho, Malawi, and even parts of Kenya. In the United States, high levels of male circumcision and high levels of HIV conflict sharply with Europe and Japan where levels of both are very low. Funds diverted to circumcision campaigns, especially those targeted at children who are not at risk, reduce resources for interventions that do work. This is a truth we have repeated often. Coupled with the recent news from a randomized controlled trial in Kenya showing that male circumcision provides no protection in women and in fact likely increases their risk, male circumcision looks not only unattractive, but dangerous. Reference Lima V et al. The combined impact of male circumcision, condom
use and HAART coverage on the HIV-1 epidemic in South Africa: a
mathematical model . 5 th IAS Conference on HIV Treatment, Pathogenesis and Prevention, Cape Town, abstract WECA105, 2009. Posted by Joe at 12:28 PM in HIV Prevention , IAS 2009 - Cape Town , Prevalence , Trends | Permalink | Comments (2) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Friday, July 24, 2009 ISRAEL & USA: Israeli Doctor of Operation Abraham proposes campaign to circumcise American Hispanics and African-Americans Dr. Inon Schenker is set to present a plan to circumcise American Hispanics and African-Americans in accordance with a model designed by the Israeli organization Operation Abraham, and previously implemented in Swaziland and other parts of Africa. According  to the summary detailed on the website for the 2009 National HIV Prevention Conference , Dr. Schenker details a model that "involves: 1) Tailoring a community mobilization effort in collaboration with leading CBOs and FBOs credible with the target populations including:
development, packaging and dissemination of population-specific
messages promoting MC; utilizing role models; educational campaigns, 2) Opening community-level designated MC clinics with fully trained
teams being able to use "Operation Abraham Collaborative" delivery
systems effectively, 3) Lobbying for AAP and Medicaid policy change, 4) Developing a clients' education campaign to minimize risk compensation, 5) Implementing a systematic follow-up, M&E program guided by CDC [sic throughout]." The 2009 National HIV Prevention Conference is set to take place August 23-26, 2009, in Atlanta, Georgia. To summarize , an Israeli national and representative wants to come to America to circumcise communities that have previously rejected circumcision as foreign to their culture and practice. He wants to do it in the name of science despite the inappropriateness of the intervention to the local epidemic and in the name of an unspoken circumcision ideology/colonialism (Israeli and Jewish). I can't make it any more stark than that. Link: Introducing Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention in Non-Circumcising Communities in the U.S. Posted by David Wilton at 12:14 PM in NHPC 2009 , Public Policy Activism | Permalink | Comments (1) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Wednesday, July 22, 2009 CIRCUMCISION: Haiti and the Dominican Republic; Dominicans are a hard sell, Haitians ready to sign up Bailey et al. wish to employ a strategy to pick off the weak (impressionable youth and mothers) and hope to build a bulwark (a generation of circumcised to displace the older intact generations) and then launch an offensive against the powerless (infants). Such is the conclusion of the following study. I wonder about how much the local health authorities (Balbuena, Caso) know about Bailey et al. and whether the need for such an intervention got any attention in setting up this study. It is doubtful in the extreme that the disadvantages and harms were offered in any of the discussions with participants or local sponsors. And most telling of all is the use of prevention in the title of this article rather than risk reduction . ABSTRACT: Acceptability of male circumcision for the prevention of HIV/AIDS in the Dominican Republic [ We aren't even using risk reduction anymore. ] Presented by Maximo Brito (United States). M. Brito 1 , H. Balbuena 2 , L. Caso 2 , R. Bailey 3 1 University of Illinois at Chicago, Section of Infectious Diseases, Chicago, United States, 2 Secretaria de Salud Publica, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, 3 University of Illinois at Chicago, School of Public Health, Chicago, United States Background: The
objective of this study was to assess the opinions and attitudes about
MC, the acceptability of the procedure , the circumcision status ,
sexual practices, and history of sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
among men 18 to 50 years of age in the Altagracia Province in the
Dominican Republic. Methods: A survey was
administered to 368 men in 5 municipalities across the province. The
questionnaire was divided in 3 sections: 1) background demographics, 2)
male circumcision and 3) sexual health. Data were analyzed using SAS
version 9.1.3. Descriptive statistics were generated for each of the
variables corresponding to specific questions in the survey and
contingency tables were constructed to calculate measures of
association. Logistic regression analysis was performed . Results: The
sample consisted of 238 (65%) Dominican men and 130 (35%) Haitian
immigrants. Almost all the men were uncircumcised (95%) and about half
(52%) were single. Overall, Haitian men were more likely to agree to a
circumcision than Dominicans (OR=1.89, 95%CI, 1.18-3.02). Similarly,
younger men (18-30 year-old) were more agreeable to the procedure
compared to their older (31-50 year-old) counterparts (OR=1.65, 95% CI,
1.02-2.66). After controlling for age, the difference between
Dominicans and Haitians persisted (OR=1.83, 95 % CI 1.14-2.95).
Participants who believed that circumcision improves hygiene and may
reduce the risk of STIs, HIV or penile cancer were two to three times
more likely to say that they would have the procedure if it was offered
to them. The acceptability of circumcision increased considerably after
an information session describing the benefits of the procedure [ I think it's fair to assume this was the hard-sell ]. Conclusions: We believe that rolling out circumcision services in the DR is
feasible. An education program aimed at sexually active young males and
mothers [ ? ] is essential to increase the acceptance of the procedure in the
population. Posted by David Wilton at 03:11 PM in IAS 2009 - Cape Town | Permalink | Comments (1) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Updated: IAS 2009 Live [Open Thread in the Comments] Ok, I'm a little late and haven't covered this much. My bad. Here is a link to live coverage. IAS 2009 Live Shared via AddThis EDIT: Ok, I blew it and missed the IAS 2009 conference in its entirety. Still, let me take this opportunity to be critical. The following post on the live blog from the conference strikes me as self-serving and desperate in these difficult economic times. IAS: New Evidence of Broad Benefits of HIV Investments At the conclusion of IAS 2009 , the International AIDS Society released a statement highlighting new evidence illustrating how
investments in HIV have contributed to reductions in infant mortality
and TB incidence, improved access to health services for women, and
expanded health systems capacity. Research presented at the conference -- as well as an IAS two-day meeting on health systems strengthening, sponsored by the Rockefeller Foundation and the World Bank ,
in conjunction with IAS 2009 -- included evidence suggesting that the
scaling up of HIV programmes can lead to improvements in outcomes
related to other health conditions and bolster health care
infrastructure overall. Read more… Read more if you want, but it is more of the same claims that AIDS spending to the detriment of other more pressing health problems is good because it is really just a way of addressing all sorts of other health issues. Before I can buy that in a continent where starvation, war, and water born diseases kill far more than AIDS, I need to see evidence that spending on these problems  directly can't measure up to the secondary effects of AIDS spending. I doubt such evidence is out there or would be forthcoming if studied. Posted by David Wilton at 02:02 PM in IAS 2009 - Cape Town | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Tuesday, July 21, 2009 BREAKING SOON: Further Analysis of African RCTs Indicates Cirumcision Does not Reduce Incidence of Three STDs A new study soon to be released in the August edition of The Journal of Infectious Diseases reports that circumcision does not reduce the risk of incident Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, or Trichomonas Vaginalis. The results come from further data mining of the Kenyan Randomized Controlled Trials. At the time of posting, the paper was not available in its entirety. It should be noted the infamous Robert Bailey was involved in this study. Expect furious spinning. As an aside, mentioned in the comments, but not in the main post of yesterday, the equally infamous Ronald Gray was involved in the early termination of the study of sero-conversion among female partners of circumcised, HIV+ men. Posted by Joe at 07:00 AM in Health Care Policy , HIV Prevention , Research & Politics | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Monday, July 20, 2009 AFRICA: Why did Wawer et al. stop the study examining HIV infection among sero-discordant female partners of circumcised men? A nagging concern has arisen in the wake of a recently published study [pdf] examining HIV infection rates in female partners of HIV-positive, circumcised men. The study, authored by Wawer et al., was stopped early, reportedly due to "futility." However, valuable information may have been lost by stopping the study early. The clear trend was towards much greater rates of HIV infection among the female partners of circumcised men. Indeed, HIV infection sero-conversion rates were trending towards 50% or greater among these women. The researchers called continuing the observation and collection of data an exercise in futility. If the authors were only seeking a benefit to female partners of circumcised HIV-positive men, they would be correct to describe the continued search as futile. However, why were they not also looking for a negative impact? The relevant facts of the study are these. The male half of the couples recruited were already HIV-positive. The trend was towards higher sero-conversion among women in the couples where the male was circumcised. No additional ethical dilemmas were present in continuing to observe the trend. In fact, offering circumcision to the intact males arguably would have presented the additional ethical dilemma. Therefore, continued observation to the scheduled completion date of the study could only have yielded more and better data, possibly rising to the level of statistical significance. It is hard to conclude anything other than that the researchers were not looking for a negative impact and perhaps may have desired to avoid a statistically significant adverse finding to male circumcision. Johns Hopkins University, home to Bloomberg School of Public Health, has been a hot bed of research into the efficacy of male circumcision in reducing HIV risk. An adverse finding could jeopardize not only their programs, both research and roll out, centered around the belief  that male circumcision has value in the HIV/AIDS fight, but also the entire circumcision industry growing up around this latest fad in HIV/AIDS prevention. The real reason no statistical significance was observed may be because the observers avoided that possibility. Posted by David Wilton at 01:38 PM in HIV Prevention | Permalink | Comments (6) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Friday, July 17, 2009 AFRICA: More evidence women at greater risk of HIV from circumcised men If you need a single, pointed example of scientists lacking common sense and of failing to grasp the totality of the circumstances, all you need is to examine a recent study published in The Lancet and authored by Maria
Wawer et al. at the Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore. Wawer examined the rate at which the female partners of 922 men contracted HIV and then compared the circumcised men's rate of transmission with the intact men. Fully 18% of circumcised men's partners contracted HIV compared with 12% of intact men. Despite this clear, unequivocal contraindication, the authors state that men should still be offered circumcision regardless of their HIV status in order to avoid the stigma associated with the perception (or reality) of having HIV. In other words, the authors suggest the stigma should be placed on men who choose the rational option to remain intact. And then, just to be funny , the authors suggest all men be offered circumcision for the laughable, dangerous, and utterly counter-intuitive purpose of reducing the likelihood of circumcised HIV-infected men and men of unknown status from using their status to coerce women to have unprotected sex. Download Wawer-study-circum-effect-on-women.pdf . Link: Circumcising HIV-Infected Men Increases Transmission to Women Posted by David Wilton at 07:43 AM in HIV Prevention , pdf files , Research & Politics | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Tuesday, July 14, 2009 Renton wants to take away choice, shift health decisions from patient to parents, doctors, third parties; also hates NORM-UK This just in from NORM-UK (edited slightly by me): Another week, another article from circumcision evangelist Alex Renton attacking NORM-UK, this time in the Daily Mail . But these are raising [NORM-UK's] profile and exposing a core of support in the
British public - enquiries and website hits are up sharply. [Mr. Renton's latest hysterical outburst:] http://www.mailonsunday.co.uk/health/article-1199472/It-protects-men-women-fatal-diseases-sexual-infections-So-boys-circumcised.html [Letters in response to the Observer article (see my post below on the latter):] http://www.guardian.co.uk/lifeandstyle/2009/jul/12/letters-big-issue-male-circumcision ... Mr. Renton defends his own forced circumcision openly, perhaps providing a motive behind his histrionics on the issue. I know it's made me crazy on occasion - but in favor of human rights principles. Mr. Renton, on the other hand, goes in the other direction, failing to discuss consent, contrary indications, and asserting the truly bizarre, claims of a secret fear among UK doctors for refusing to come out full force for infant circumcision and against consent and choice. The sense in his articles is one of the proverbial scenario of panic when a nut stands and yells "Fire!" in a crowded theater. Go forth and comment by following the links above! Posted by David Wilton at 08:20 AM in Crazy | Permalink | Comments (1) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Older » Subscribe and receive a numbered copy of The Intactivists: San Francisco Pride 2009-2010 as our thank you! Or buy the book online to support us! Here's why . { IAS 2011 - Rome } Did you know that our twitter feed includes many news items you won't find in the blog? Click on MC_HIV to view and follow our full twitter feed. Twitter Feed follow MC_HIV on Twitter Subscribe to this blog's feed Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Search About Male Circumcision and HIV provides a place for a public health policy debate on the linking of male circumcision and HIV/AIDS. It seeks to address questions of cost versus benefit, the effectiveness of circumcision in the fight against HIV/AIDS in real world settings, and the differing points of view of researchers, the media, and all contributors to the policy discussion. Contributors David Wilton David Wilton is a lawyer by training. He has a long-standing interest in issues of body integrity and HIV/AIDS. He maintains this site and blogs from San Francisco, California. His primary interests outside of nurturing a debate on the controversial measure of removing sexual tissue to reduce the spread of HIV are in the areas of international relations, languages, and journalism. Interviews Circumcision and HIV: A Conversation with David Wilton CUT, The PODCAST: In this episode, Eli Ungar-Sargon sits down with David Wilton of Male Circumcision and HIV to discuss the issue of circumcision and HIV-AIDS. Below, San Francisco attorney David Wilton discusses male circumcision, HIV, and human rights. Read a transcription of this interview here . San Francisco attorney David Wilton interviewed on Outlook Video viz human rights and male circumcision Contact Circumcisionandhiv.com PO Box 40312 San Francisco, CA 94140 [Please put CIRCUMCISIONANDHIV in the subject line.] San Francisco Pride Outreach 2011 2010 2009 Bonobo3D - Documenting Intactivism Intactivist Blogs infocirc End Routine Infant Circumcision IntactNews Barefoot Intactivist peaceful parenting Men Do Complain | Mythbusting Circumcision Choose Intact IntactByDefault no circumcision Beyond the Bris Jewish Intactivist Organizations קה"ל - קהילת הורים לילדים שלמים ברית מילה - חדשות מהארץ והעולם Beyond the Bris Jewish Circumcision Resource Center Jews Against Circumcision ברית מילה Gonnen.org Intactivist Organizations The WHOLE Network: Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information - The WHOLE Network - Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information Circumcision Information Resource Center of Colorado Doctors Opposing Circumcision NORM - The National Organization of Restoring Men MGMbill.org International Coalition for Genital Integrity - Intactivist Group Bay Area Intactivists | Promoting Genital Integrity For All Intaction.org to End Infant Circumcision Now ARC - Attorneys for the Rights of the Child National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers  Intactivists Intactivist Allies ~ Peaceful Parenting ~ Woman, Uncensored TLC Tugger The Teapot Atheist The Lifelube Blog - gay . sexy . healthy The Kvetcher · David Kelsey The Guggie Daily Tantalus Prime Stop Circumcision RollingDoughnut.com NOHARMM Home Page mothering magazine - inspiring natural families since 1976 ManHood: The foreskin substitute for men who are circumcised, foreskin restoration, or intact with penile discomfort Joseph4GI Intactivism Pages - HIV page History of Circumcision Growing with my Girls Gloria Lemay Global Health Council Gene Expression DailyKos: Diarist RealityBias Cut: The Film Circumcision information for Australians | Circinfo.org Circumcision Information and Resource Pages Blog powered by TypePad Amazon.com Widgets Categories 15th CROI (2008) AAP 2010 AAP NCE 2009 Affliction Fiction AIDS 2008 - Mexico City AIDS 2012 ASHM 2008 Circumcision Journalism Crazy Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) Genital Integrity Genital Integrity 2008 Genital Integrity 2010 Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis Health Care Policy HIV Prevention IAS 2007 - Sydney IAS 2009 - Cape Town IAS 2010 - Vienna IAS 2011 - Rome Informed Consent Intactivism Law MSM, Same Sex Issues NHPC 2009 Notebook Off Topic pdf files Prevalence Pro-Circumcision Lobby Public Policy Activism Q & A Religion Research & Politics Science SFMGMBill.org Trends Vaccines Web/Tech Weblogs Around the Web Circumcision and AIDS at MGMbill.org A decidedly anti-circumcision site with a calm approach to addressing the human rights issues likely to become problematic in the rush to roll out circumcision as an HIV prophylactic. Circumcision and HIV at circumstitions.com One of the most thorough reviews anywhere of circumcision and the history behind the HIV prevention community's study of it. The science behind this prophylactic tool is much more equivocal than the most recent researchers would have you believe. New Zealand based. Circumcision and HIV: Harm Outweighs Benefits from circumcision.org From the Circumcision Resource Center, Boston, Massachusetts. This human rights organization has published such books as Questioning Circumcision: A Jewish Perspective and Circumcision: The Hidden Trauma . Sitting on its board are a number of individuals affiliated with Harvard and other Ivy League institutions. Circumcision and HIV infection from CIRP.org From the Circumcision Information Resource Pages. An excellent primer on the issue. Doctors Opposing Circumcision statement on HIV Doctor's Opposing Circumcision is a Seattle based physicians group that provides education, information and advice on medical circumcision and its effects. Statement on AIDS and Circumcision from the International Coalition for Genital Integrity Another thorough treatment of male circumcision's likely impact on the spread of HIV from an "alliance of organizations dedicated to protecting the normal anatomy of males, females and the intersexed ... [that] was formed to coalesce the many activist organizations, each with a specific focus, into one, common voice." Does circumcision prevent HIV infection? - NORM-UK John Dalton puts together a critique of the African studies and their weaknesses. He examines the evidence, appropriateness, and possible outcomes from promoting circumcision and calling it a "prevention." Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 Jul