
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 01:17:07 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Exercises For Lower Back Pain Home Eat Healthy Get Moving Restore Balance Fight Radicals Heal Naturally Browse Diets Read Blog Nutrition Health Articles » Lower Back Pain » Exercises for Lower Back Pain Exercises for Lower Back Pain This page is about easy and simple exercises for lower back pain that do not 
require any special equipment. It also features recommended exercises for acute and severe back pain. Doctors believe that if this exercise routine is done at 
least 2-3 times a week it can help prevent or ease back pain. Before you start, remember the following... When you have acute pain, engage in gentle walking on a flat surface for a few 
minutes every 1-2 hours within 24-72 hours of injury. This can help speed 
recovery and may help reduce back pain. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist especially if you have had a history 
of back problem, surgery or injury, before you start doing the exercises for lower 
back pain. Stretch at least five days a week and incorporate these lower back pain exercises 
with your daily routine to keep your back and its supporting muscles strong, 
stable and flexible and help prevent a recurrence of back pain. When stretching, do it gently and slowly, and avoid sudden movements. Focus on 
the muscles that you are stretching and hold the stretch when you start to feel 
the muscle tension. Start with a 1 or 2-second hold and gradually increase the amount to 5 seconds. 
Start out with 2 repetitions and gradually increase to 10 repetitions. Discontinue the back pain exercises if you feel pain, even 
with a gentle stretch. Remember to keep your abdominal muscles tight and breathe deeply and slowly 
while you exercise and expect to feel some soreness in the beginning and don't 
let your fear of pain keep you from doing the exercises for lower back pain. Work the 'S' words, Stretching and Strengthening Single-Knee-to-Chest Stretch Lie on your back with your knees bent, 
						your feet flat against the floor, and your arms at your 
						sides. Using both hands, pull up one knee and 
						press it to your chest until 
						you feel a gentle stretch in the low back. Hold 
						for 5 seconds. This will stretch some of your lower back 
						and buttock muscles. Return to the starting position, 
						and then repeat with the opposite leg. Double-Knee-to-Chest Lie on your back with your knees bent and feet 
						resting on the floor. With your hands, pull one knee to 
						your chest, then the other knee until you feel a gentle 
						stretch in the low back. Hold both knees for 20 counts, and then put one leg 
						down at a time. Hold for 5 seconds. Repeat 10 times. Straight Leg Raises Lie on your back with one leg straight and one knee 
						bent. Tighten you abdominal muscles to stabilize you 
						lower back and slowly lift leg straight up about 6 -12 
						inches. Hold 5 seconds. Lower leg slowly. Repeat 10 
						times. Lower Back Or Trunk Rotation Keep your shoulders firmly on the floor, knees bent, 
						hands on your chest, roll your bent knees to one side. 
						Hold for 5 seconds. Relax. Repeat 10 times on each side. Pelvic Tilt Lie on your back with your arms at your 
						sides, your knees bent, feet flat on the floor about a 
						hip-width apart, and your knees slightly closer together 
						than your feet. Flatten the end of your back against the 
						floor and hold for 5 seconds. Relax. Repeat 10 times. Pelvic Lift or Bridge Exercise Lie on your back with your knees bent, 
						your feet flat on the floor and at shoulder-width apart, 
						and your arms at your sides. With shoulders and head 
						relaxed on the floor and abdominal muscles tight, raise 
						your hips off the floor to form a straight line from 
						knees to shoulders. Hold for 5 seconds. Repeat 10 times. Leg Raises Lie on your back with one leg extended 
						and one knee bent. Keep your abdominal muscles tight to 
						stabilize your lower back. Slowly lift leg straight up 
						about 6 to 12 inches. Hold up to 5 seconds. Lower leg 
						slowly. Repeat 10 times on each side. The Single Leg Pull Lie on your back with one leg bent, foot flat on the 
						floor and the other leg extended straight out. Use your 
						hands to pull the bent knee to your chest while keeping 
						your back and other knee pressed against the floor. Hold 
						for 5 seconds. Lower your leg to the starting position 
						and relax. Repeat 10 times on each side. Hamstring Stretch Lie on your back with legs bent. Hold 
						one thigh behind knee. Slowly straighten knee until a 
						stretch is felt in back of thigh. Hold 5 seconds. Relax. 
						Repeat 10 times on each side. Partial Abdominal Crunch Lie on your back with your knees bent, 
						your feet flat on the floor and at shoulder-width apart, 
						and your arms at your sides. Cross your arms over your 
						chest, keeping your middle and lower back are flat on 
						the floor. Raise up to get your shoulder blades off the 
						floor. Expect not to go up too far in the beginning. 
						Hold 5 minutes. Repeat 10 times. Cat and Camel Stretch Get down on your hands and knees. Slowly let your back and abdomen sag toward the floor. Hold for 5 seconds. Then slowly arch your back away from the floor. Pull 
						your abdomen up toward the ceiling. Hold for 5 seconds. 
						Repeat 10 times. This is one of the stretching exercises 
						for lower back pain that is good for increasing your 
						back flexibility. Cross-Over Lie on your back and cross one knee over 
						your other leg.With the opposite hand, pull your knee up 
						and over toward the opposite shoulder, until you feel an 
						outer hip stretch. Keep your foot flat on the ground. 
						Hold for 5 seconds. Repeat 10 times. Side Bend Sit or stand with your back straight. 
										Raise your arm and slowly bend your body 
										over to the opposite side until you feel 
										a stretch. Get More Information from Top Back Pain Websites For more information on back pain, pain management and more... please use the search box below. 
This search box was customized to provide you results from top-rated websites. Popular Searches Antioxidants Alkaline Water Colon Cleanse Healthiest Nuts Fitness Flaxseeds Healthiest Foods Organic Food Vitamins Please Note All the Information within this site is for reference only with no guarantee 
of accuracy; it is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any 
diseases. Statements about the products efficacy have not been evaluated by the 
U.S. Food & Drug Administration. It is important to emphasize that you should not reject mainstream medical 
attention and guidance and the use of recommended products, treatments, and 
remedies for individual disorder should be approved and monitored by your health 
care provider. See disclaimer for more! « «
Return to Homepage from Exercises For Lower Back Pain People are reading Exercises for Lower Back Pain Choosing the Best Mattress For Back Pain Back Pain Inversion Table Remedies for Burning Upper Back Managing Your Lower Back Pain Relief for Back Pain Muscle Spasms Information on Back pain Treatment Options for Chronic Back Pain Severe Back Pain Is In Your Back, Not In Your Head Stay in touch Health extras About | Contact | Health Blog | Health Site Search | Site Map | Privacy Policy C