
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 02:04:54 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gestational Diabetes Gestational Diabetes Lowering Cholesterol .net Home Lower Cholesterol Cholesterol Levels Symptoms Low Cholesterol Diet Normal Levels HDL LDL Causes Medications Numbers Good Cholesterol Lowering Foods Reduce Cholesterol FAQ Newsletter WellnessTrader.com Cholesterol Message Board About Us Natural Rewards On Sale! Testimonials Natural Remedies Tell A Friend 1-800-969-7228 View Cart Check Out Login Signup What is Cholesterol? Types of Cholesterol Symptoms of High Cholesterol Causes of High Cholesterol Cholesterol Levels Cholesterol and Arteries HDL Cholesterol Benefits Cholesterol Guidelines Raise HDL Cholesterol Lower LDL Cholesterol Lower Triglycerides Cholesterol Lowering Drugs Natural Remedies Supplement Store Cholesterol Lowering Foods Low Cholesterol Diet Lifestyle Recommendations Cholesterol Glossary Helpful Links Cholesterol News How to Order My Account User Info | View Cart Checkout Signup for newsletter Signup as a new user Site Info How To Order Shipping Information About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy 5 Star Guarantee Gestational Diabetes Gestational diabetes is the condition
by which pregnant women who have never had diabetes suddenly find
that they are insulin resistant and have a resultant high level of
sugar in their blood. It is believed that this condition arises as a
result of the actions of certain hormones produced in the placenta.
Estrogen, cortisol and human placental lactogen (HPL) block the
action of insulin in the mother’s body. The body will attempt to
compensate with an oversupply of insulin produced in the pancreas.
For most mothers this works fine. For about 4 % of all pregnant
women, however, it does not, and gestational diabetes is the result. Untreated or poorly controlled diabetes
can have adverse effects on the baby. Excess blood glucose passes
through the placenta with the result that your baby will also have
high blood glucose levels. This causes the baby’s pancreas to
produce more insulin to get rid of the excess glucose. The baby is
now getting more energy that in needs. The excess will be stored as
fat and can lead to a condition known as ‘macrosomia.’ The goal of gestational diabetes
treatment is maintain a blood glucose level similar to pregnant women
who do not have the condition. Treatment typically includes special
meal plans, physical activity sessions, daily glucose level testing
and insulin injection. Diabetes Types Type 1 Diabetes Natural Remedies Controlling Cholesterol Naturally - Dietary supplements help optimize lipid profiles.... Blueberry ingredient to cut the cholesterol, new findings - A component of blueberries can help healthy cholesterol levels.... A close look at Coenzyme Q10 and Policosanol - For most alternative therapies, there’s little or no solid science on which... Triglycerides a risk factor for stroke - Researchers have shown that high triglycerides is a strong independent pred... Cholesterol-lowering drug improves survival after heart transplant - Transplanted hearts stayed healthier in patients who took a cholesterol-low... Indian herb can reduce cholesterol - An extract from a small tree found across Arabia and India can help to redu... Study Finds Cholesterol Drug Does Not Cut Deaths - In a new trial the statin pravastatin (Pravachol) did not reduce the risk o... Natural Compound Used in India Reduces Cholesterol by Blocking Metabolism-Controlling Receptor - UT Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas researchers have helped prove that... More News Home | Natural Remedies | Current News | Discussion Board | Discussion Board
			Guidelines | How to Order Shipping Information | Shopping Cart | About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Search Earn Free Products with Natural Rewards To Order Call: 1-800-969-7228 $6.95 Flat Shipping per Order UPS Ground 2-5 Biz Days Terms of Use and Disclaimer | ©2009 Wellness Trader | US FDA Disclaimer 5-htp.org | alpha-lipoic-acid.com | anxietyremedy.com | arginmaxdirect.com | bacopa-monniera.com | blueberryextract.com bromelain.net | coq10supplement.com | curcumin.net | diabetes-remedy.com | dmae.org | dryeyesyndrome.net enlargedprostateremedy.com | fish-oil-supplements.com | green-tea-extract.com | guggul.net | gymnema.net | high-triglycerides.com highbloodpressureremedy.com | huperzine.net | immune-boosters.com | inflammationremedy.com | memory-loss.com | migraineremedy.com natto-nattokinase.com | osteoarthritisremedy.com | pantethine.net | policosanol.net | redyeastrice.org | sam-e-supplement.com sleepremedy.com 