
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:44:13 GMT
Connection: close

Cinnamon Supplement CinnaMax Shipped Fresh Direct From The Factory! Our Vitamin Catagories Amino Acids Anti-Inflammatory Antioxidant Supplements B Vitamins C Vitamins Calcium Supplements Digestive Aids E Vitamins Energy & Vitality Hair and Skin Care Products Heart Health Herbal Teas Joint & Cartilage Medicinal Herb s Mens Health Supplements Mental Performance Mineral Supplements Multiple Vitamins Natural Food Supplements Protein Supplements Sports Supplements Vitamin A Vitamin D Weight Loss Womens Vitamins Top of Page Our Natural Food Supplements Artichoke Supplement Breath Fresh Bee Propolis ChromeMate Cinnamon Supplement Cod Liver Oil Cranberry Deodorized Garlic Evening Primrose Oil Evening Primrose Oil High Dose Eye Supplement Fish Oil Flaxseed Oil Garlic Oil Garlic and Parsley Supplement Grape Seed Extract Green Tea Trim Herbal Calm Aid Herbal Diuretic Lecithin Lutein Lycopene Oat Bran Octacosanol Energy Boost Omega 3 Salmon Oil Phosphatidyl Choline Pine Bark Extract Pomegranate Antioxidant Supplement Protein Tablets Royal Bee Products Sea Kelp Senna Soy Lecithin Granules St Johns Wort Cinnamon Supplement CinnaMax High Concentrate Cinnamon Bark with Saponin Rich Fenugreek Seed $8.99 100 Count Bottle VP1092R Retails for $11.90 Tweet A Natural Way to Help The Body Properly Metabolize Sugar… Cinnamon is making headlines because this common spice is now regarded as a potential treatment in disorders of glucose control and heart disease. Cinnamon bark has been proven to enable insulin to work more efficiently and has been clinically shown to decrease the symptoms that commonly accompany elevated blood sugar and its harmful effects. Cinnamon contains various health-promoting bioactive polymers. These natural bioactive compounds are shown to potentiate insulin activity, resulting in the beneficial effects Cinnamon has on blood glucose. Fenugreek seed contains a high proportion of soluble fiber and natural saponins to help reduce dietary fat absorption and help control blood sugar. Each 2 Tablets contain Cinnamon (Cinnamon cessia bark) 1000mg Fenugreek (seed) 200mg In a natural, nutritive base containing Psyllium husk, 
                              oat bran and pectin. Find Cinnamon Supplements at a Featured Merchant (below) Supports healthy glucose management Helps lower cholesterol levels naturally Helps reduce blood pressure levels, naturally Contains high concentrate Cinnamon Bark extract Plus Fenugreek seed, naturally rich in beneficial Saponins CinnaMax Contains Safe, Effective High-Concentrate Cinnamon plus Saponin-Rich Fenugreek Seed for Easy Supplementation Formulated without caffeine, corn, gluten, dairy products, salt, starch, sugar, wheat or yeast. No artificial colorings, flavorings or preservatives added. Best know for flavoring food, cinnamon warms the system. As it warms internal organs, it is helpful for stubborn diarrhea, indigestion, gas, bloating, abdominal cramping and spasms in the digestive tract. Fenugreek is one of the oldest known medicinal plants and is extremely versatile. It is helpful for mucous congestion and lung congestion because of its expectorant, astringent and demulcent properties. Fenugreek is used for ulcers, inflammation in the stomach and intestines, loss of appetite and for controlling blood sugar levels. New Study Reports Cinnamon May Improve Blood Sugar Levels... Consumption of Three Grams of Cinnamon a Day May Improve People's Control of Blood Glucose Levels, Scandinavian Scientists Have Reported Ingesting the spice led to reductions in blood insulin levels, the hormone responsible for controlling blood sugar levels, and increased levels of a peptide reported to work by delaying the emptying of the stomach (gastric emptying), according to results of a recent study. Despite the increases in glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), no effects on gastric emptying, feelings of satiety, or changes in blood sugar levels were reported. The results are published in the new issue of the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. "Our finding that cinnamon decreases the insulin demand, despite the lack of change in blood glucose concentrations, was probably due to enhanced glucose uptake via stimulation of the insulin receptor," reported the researchers from Malmo University Hospital. The study adds to a growing body of research reporting that active compounds in cinnamon may improve parameters associated with diabetes. Indeed, the same researchers reported in the same journal in 2007 that consumption of 300 g rice pudding plus 6 g cinnamon led to a decreased rate of gastric emptying. Taking into account the earlier studies, higher doses of cinnamon are apparently required to influence GER and postprandial blood glucose concentrations. The researchers measured the rate of stomach emptying (gastric emptying rate) in 14 healthy subjects with normal fasting blood glucose levels after consuming 300 grams of rice pudding or 300 grams of  rice pudding plus 6 grams of cinnamon. The Scandinavian researchers recruited 15 health subjects (nine men) with an average age of 24.6, an average BMI of 22.5 kg/m2, and with no history of diabetes, and assigned them to randomly consume 300 grams of rice pudding with zero, one or three grams of cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia) added. All of the participants consumed all the meals in a random order, with one week between each. No significant effects on the rate of gastric emptying, levels of satiety, and blood glucose levels were reported. However, the insulin response one and two hours after the meal with three grams of the spice was significantly lower than levels after consuming the control meal. Furthermore, the change in GLP-1 response was significantly higher after ingestion of the pudding with three grams of cinnamon, compared to the control meal, said the researchers. "There seems to be a relation between the amount of cinnamon consumed, the delay in gastric emptying, and the reduction in postprandial blood glucose concentrations," wrote the researchers. "The previously described reduction in postprandial blood glucose concentrations after the ingestion of six grams of cinnamon was much more noticeable than was the lowering of GER. Gastric emptying, as well as other factors, regulates the postprandial blood glucose response, and a delay in gastric emptying leads to a lower postprandial blood glucose concentration." they added. The Scandinavian researchers make reference to the potential in diabetes, while also acknowledging the meta-analysis results. "Clearly, a long-term clinical trial involving a larger number of diabetes patients is needed to evaluate the effects of cinnamon supplementation in type 2 diabetes," wrote the researchers. Source: American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 2009, Volume 89, Pages 815-821 Shipping $100 Orders Ship Free Additional Wholesale Discounts PayPal now accepts payments without the need to register. Sign up for additional benefits! To make a purchase, just press the ADD TO CART buttons for the items you want. When finished shopping click the VIEW CART button above to check out. Shipping charges are added during checkout. Search the Web or a 
  Featured Merchant Healthy Resource Links (Themed Links) IMPORTANT: It is not our intention to prescribe or 
make specific medical claims for any of our products. It is advised that you 
consult a doctor/physician if advice for a specific health concern is required. 
Any effort to diagnose or treat an illness should be done under the guidance of 
a doctor or healthcare professional.  *These statements have not been evaluated
        by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to
        diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Contact Information Privacy