Content-Type: text/html

News You Can Use - Foam Roller For Neck and Back Pain Call Now To Make An Appointment 171 Madison 
        Ave. Suite 1600 New York, NY 10016 293 6th Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11215 Home Express Patient Registration Cost/Insurances Video Testimonials Who We Are Location ----------- Renew PT Blog Services V-Steam Spa Room PEMF Therapy Classes/Workshops About 
              Us Contact 
              Us Press/Media Resource List Advanced Technology Research Center Common Causes of Pain Join Our Mailing List Email: For Email Marketing you can trust News You Can Use - Foam 
          Roller Exercises to Relieve Back and Neck Pain The foam roller will 
          help you get rid of daily stress and muscular imbalance which is often 
          such a part of our busy lives in the modern world. Get Started on Your Foam 
          Roller Workout Today Tired of having neck and back pain? Can’t 
          get to your therapist because of time constraints? Why not try foam 
          rolling your pain away. The foam 
          roller is an extraordinary tool that helps to improve flexibility, 
          eliminates painful trigger points and muscle spasms it also helps to 
          reduce stress and anxiety in the body and mind. These exercises are 
          taken from my current book Ending 
          Female Pain, A Woman's Manual , and are also appropriate for men 
          as well Exercise 1- Foam Roller 
          Upper Back What To Do: 1. Place foam roller on your mid-back 
          with your hands behind your head. 2. For neck support, keep your knees bent with your feet close to the buttocks. 3. Gently roll up and down on the thoracic spine and mid-back muscles. 4. Avoid pulling and/or hyper-extending your neck. 5. Roll 1 to 2 minutes over your mid-back muscles. Focus on the painful 
          spots and concentrate the rolling and rocking on those areas that cause 
          you the most pain. 6. For trigger points, stay on the spots, applying consistent pressure 
          over them for 90 seconds. 7. For muscle spasms, apply consistent pressure and do little clockwise 
          or counterclockwise circles until pain subsides. Exercise 2- Foam Roller 
          Lower Back What To Do: 1. Place the foam roller on your lower 
          back and balance on your hands behind you. Keep your hands close to the foam roller to avoid straining 
          your shoulders. 2. Without collapsing the chest and shoulders, gently roll up and down 
          the lower back muscles. Remember to maintain good upright posture with 
          the chest lifted. 3. Roll 1 to 2 minutes over your lower back muscles. Focus on the painful 
          spots and concentrate the rolling and rocking on that area. Exercise 3- Foam Roller 
          Piriformis and Gluteal Muscles What To Do: Place the foam roller on the right buttock 
          cheek with the ankle of the left foot across your right thigh. 2. Balancing on the right hand and right foot, slowly roll the gluteal 
          and piriformis muscles from top to bottom. Keep your left arm balanced 
          on the left knee. 3. Avoid collapsing the shoulders. 4. Roll 1 to 2 minutes over your gluteal and piriformis muscles. Focus 
          on the painful spots and concentrate the rolling on that area. 5. Repeat on the other leg. Medical Disclaimer Take 
          the time to learn to do the poses safely and correctly. Choose a well-qualified 
          physical therapist or fitness instructor. Check with your doctor to 
          make surefoam rolling is safe for you to try. If you ware in acute 
          pain and would like to have a physical therapy program developed for 
          you for your condition please give us a call at 212-213-4660. All contents of the website are Copyright Protected, 2005-2012 - Renew Physical Therapy, Osteocise®, 
      S.O.S.®, P.R.I.D.E.®, Pelvienne Pain® Programs, Maternal Body Strength® Program, XY Health® Program, Femphysique® Program, and Bodyworks Orthopedics® Program are REGISTERED TRADEMARKS 
      of Renew Physical Therapy. Unauthorized use or reproduction of any material 
      on this website without the express written consent from Renew Physical Therapy, 
      PC is prohibited by law. Website Design Powered by IndeFree Designs © 2009 Indefree Association - All rights reserved. Re