<http://signsofovariancancer.info/?p=1276>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) – GE Griffin | SIGNS OF OVARIAN CANCER Home Terms of Use Privacy Policy Earnings Disclaimer Disclaimer Follow Us On Twiter Facebook Subscribe SIGNS OF OVARIAN CANCER WAYS TO PREVENT IT Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) – GE Griffin by on October 20, 2011 {Ovarian Cancer|Cancer| cancer treatment|Cancer Medication|lung Cancer|Stages of cancer|Ways to prevent Cancer|cancer in women| [Translate] Share Talking about metabolic cancer therapy, and vitamin B17 Download whole interview: record.google.com www.fritthelsevalg.org Record Rating: 4 / 5 {Ovarian Cancer|Cancer| cancer treatment|Cancer Medication|lung Cancer|Stages of cancer|Ways to prevent Cancer|cancer in women| Tagged as: Alternative , Cancer , Griffin , Therapy { 25 comments… read them below or add one } ParadiseOnLand October 20, 2011 at 7:34 am @texasB666 : Your brother needs to take pancreatic enzymes, vitamin B17 and avoid red meat, tomatoes, alcohol, cane sugar & corn sweetener. It is impossible to overdose on B17. Reply ParadiseOnLand October 20, 2011 at 8:03 am Foods rich in vitamin B17 are: Apple seeds, apricot kernels bamboo shoots, barley, beet tops, bitter almond, blackberries, boysenberries, brewers yeast, brown rice, buckwheat, cashews, cherry kernels, cranberries, eucalyptus leaves, currants, fava beans, flax seeds, garbanzo beans, gooseberries, huckleberries, lentils, lima beans, linseed meat, loganberries, macadamia nuts, millet, millet seed, peach kernels, pecans, plum kernels, quince, raspberries, sorghum cane syrup, spinach and sprouts. Reply texasB666 October 20, 2011 at 8:51 am @ParadiseOnLand Do you just have to eat them as the seed in itself or do you have to smash it or something to get the “substance” out of it? My brother has agressive cancer and i’m sure i have to do my best to make him believe that B17 can be a cure…. No one over here believes me. Reply OscarCB1 October 20, 2011 at 9:19 am Grape, apple, apricot seeds??? Bullshit…inmy oppinion Reply maxinatlanta October 20, 2011 at 10:06 am Google Awakening Blog : 14 cancer documentaries there . share Reply DrSpooglemon October 20, 2011 at 10:15 am @daleyboy50 Nightshade berries contain atropine. That is what makes them poisonous. Atropine is used in medicine. It would be not be a good thing for someone to be able to buy bottles of atropine any time they think they could do with some. The same goes for amygdalin. Even if it can be demonstrated to have anti-cancer properties it is not in the public interest for people to sell it freely. Purvayors of such products are unscrouplulous and there actions should be cutrailed… Reply DrSpooglemon October 20, 2011 at 10:45 am @daleyboy50 Look. I don’t think that we shouldn’t look for safer alternatives with fewer side effects but it is foolish to judge chemo and radio therapy on the side effects. I have a friend who recieved radio and her hair fell out. After she was cleared her hair grew back in. It was successful and now she is back to normal. It may not work out for every one but that doesn’t mean we should pay heed to everybody touting “natural” remedies… Reply daleyboy50 October 20, 2011 at 11:43 am @DrSpooglemon Amygdalin, Laetrile, B17, call it what you will its simply from the apricot pip. In my country they are not illegal and i’m glad. There are no problems here and i kind of like the taste when i’ve had them. There is far too much scaremongering going on. I think there should be a change with chemo and radiation mind you. This is damaging to all cells and the immune system with lasting side effects on top. Reply DrSpooglemon October 20, 2011 at 12:11 pm @daleyboy50 Apricot seeds contain high amounts of amygdalin. Amygdalin is cyanogenic. To sell these for the purpose of human consumption SHOULD be illegal. To make unsubstanciated claims about a chemical that has been through NO clinical trials Should be illegal too. Here’s an interesting point. Vit E has anti-cancer properties. It is also demonstrably a vitamin. No controversy there. Amygdalin MAY have anti-cancer properties but it has not been tested and it is NOT a vitamin… Reply daleyboy50 October 20, 2011 at 12:50 pm @DrSpooglemon Fair enough your not a doctor and surprisingly you are aware of the serious corruption. I am surprised you still believe these old tried and tested lines you’ve just copied especially from the cancer industry. I think it stands to reason anything that makes them sit up and take drastic action is worth looking into. I mean they even banned apricot seeds. It shouldn’t be banned it should be part of a healthy diet for everyone. Reply DrSpooglemon October 20, 2011 at 1:04 pm @daleyboy50 LOL. I’m not a Dr. And my names not Spooglemon. In anycase, did Dr. Burlynski advocate the use of amygdalin? I will say it again; amygdalin was sold as a B vit and a cancer cure, under the brand name “Laetrile”, in the early 20th century without ANY evidence to back up EITHER of these claims. Yes, there is corruption. Yes, it is in the drug companies interest for people NOT to be healthy. Yes, there are to many legislators with vested interests. But seriously… Reply daleyboy50 October 20, 2011 at 1:32 pm @DrSpooglemon One day everyone will be sickened by so called Dr’s like you for peddling the same old chemo/radiation treatments that don’t work without testing these alternatives yourselves. You just scare people with the old lines. It doesn’t work, its toxic, it will kill you, no conclusive evidence. You are so ignorant you can’t even see the truth and don’t check on yourself. So many more know now it’s been about money. You only have to see the ‘Dr Burlynski’ documentary to see the ugly truth. Reply BuyApricotSeeds October 20, 2011 at 1:46 pm The man who first expsosed drugs companies and told the world of B17 Apricot seeds. What a hero. Reply lorijeans59 October 20, 2011 at 2:07 pm @ParadiseOnLand Thanks so much The hammer worked perfectly!. The shell of the cherry pit wasn’t as thick as I thought. the flavor  of the seed was bitter almons good flavor Video very good Reply ParadiseOnLand October 20, 2011 at 2:30 pm The malignant cells within a tumor are errant healing cells. Healing cells are trophoblasts, the selfsame cells that form pre-embryonic tissue. Errant/useless trophoblastic (malignant) growth is arrested with Amygdalin (vitamin B17). Amygdalin is abundant in the seeds of 1,200 common fruits, except citrus. Watch G. Edward Griffin’s 1974 documentary: “World Without Cancer.” Reply ParadiseOnLand October 20, 2011 at 2:46 pm @lorijeans59 : I broke a peach stone, with a hammer, to retrieve the seed (or pip) this evening. Reply lorijeans59 October 20, 2011 at 3:42 pm @ParadiseOnLand Thanks again Reply ParadiseOnLand October 20, 2011 at 3:44 pm @lorijeans59 : With a hammer. Apple seeds are easier. Reply lorijeans59 October 20, 2011 at 4:28 pm @ParadiseOnLand Thank U How to get the kernals out of the cherry pit? Reply DrSpooglemon October 20, 2011 at 5:22 pm @daleyboy50 No. Only the beginning of this particular discussion. “Metabolic Therapy” is a product that these people are trying to sell. One of the “Doctors” in question is an “alternative” practitioner, one is still wet behind the ears and the only time served doctor decided to open a private practice in order to deliver this particular “therapy”. It has not been through controlled studies and there is no way of discerning the importance, if any, of amygdalin within this approach… Reply daleyboy50 October 20, 2011 at 5:54 pm @DrSpooglemon You don’t know anything about it. They are already tested, prescribed by professionals. Don’t scare people unnecessarily. It is saving lives. If you don’t believe me listen to these Dr’s who are getting brilliant results with it and are steering away from the 50 year old toxic chemo/radiation. watch?v=ON1CUSJjZL0 end of discussion. Reply DrSpooglemon October 20, 2011 at 6:05 pm @daleyboy50 Yes, it is the dose that makes the poison. That is why medicines should be tested and prescribed by proffesionals. To find out what dose, if any, is theraputic; to find out what dose is toxic; AND to make sure that it is being used properly. End of discussion… Reply daleyboy50 October 20, 2011 at 6:12 pm @DrSpooglemon Don’t stay ignorant. It doesn’t matter what it is called it comes from (NATURAL) crushed apricot pips. You haven’t watched the whole interview. Everything is proved TOXIC (oxygen,water..) in the wrong dose. Reply Silenus6 October 20, 2011 at 6:42 pm Check out the documentaries: “Burzynski: Cancer Is Serious Business” “Healing Cancer: From Inside Out” “Dying To Have Known” &? “Food Matters” The body needs infusions of vitamins and minerals, and not to be cut-up and flooded with toxins. The greatest medical invention of the 20th century is the JUICER. As you put less poisonous (processed and cooked) food into your body and more raw foods and vegetable juices, especially dark leafy greens, you’ll be? amazed at your uncovered potential. Reply governslayer October 20, 2011 at 7:17 pm @bunnylittle I always think to myself though,that at the end of the day these bastards will get their’s. Reply Cancel reply Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: What do the livestrong-like ovarian cancer bracelets say? Next post: Buy Ebook Recent Comments sahara on How would you respond to a sister who may cause more damage by publishing on broken family’s pain.? Danny on How would you respond to a sister who may cause more damage by publishing on broken family’s pain.? governslayer on Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) – GE Griffin Athena13 on How would you respond to a sister who may cause more damage by publishing on broken family’s pain.? Silenus6 on Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) – GE Griffin Follow this blog Categories Select Category Cancer Cancer Early Detention Cancer Prevention Cancer Treatment Health New Therapy For Cancer Ovarian Cancer Ovarian Cancer Treatment Signs Of Ovarian Cancer Uncategorized Archives Select Month March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 Recent Posts The L word – Nikki and Jenny Dying With Dignity LARA FABIAN (Perdere L’amore) CANCER CURE? Phytoplankton Every Cancer Can be Cured in Weeks explains Dr. Leonard Coldwell Tags ????????????????????Cancer About Alternative AWARENESS Best breakthroughs Breast Cancer Center centers cost cure from Guide healing Health India know Life Lung medical News Ovarian Pink Prevention problems Prostate Recognizing Research Ribbon Risk Signs skin someone Survival Survivor symptoms Teal Therapy this treatment Treatments~ TShirt Women Word Recent Comments sahara on How would you respond to a sister who may cause more damage by publishing on broken family’s pain.? Danny on How would you respond to a sister who may cause more damage by publishing on broken family’s pain.? governslayer on Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) – GE Griffin Athena13 on How would you respond to a sister who may cause more damage by publishing on broken family’s pain.? Silenus6 on Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) – GE Griffin Status Updates Hey, we searched all over the database, but we couldn't find any status updates. Have you posted any yet? Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIY