<http://www.bariatriclearningcenter.com/?p=134>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Austin Bariatric Surgery Center – St. David’s Bariatric Learning Center Bariatric Surgery News and Updates Home About Articles Glossary Resources Disclaimer Privacy Policy You are here: Home / Surgery Centers / Austin Bariatric Surgery Center – St. David’s Austin Bariatric Surgery Center – St. David’s July 1, 2007 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved Welcome to the Bariatric Learning Center. We publish independent, unbiased news about the bariatric weight-loss surgery. St. David’s Medical Center in Austin, Texas was recently named a Bariatric Surgery Center of Excellence by the American Society for Bariatric Surgery. To earn this designation, the Austin bariatric surgery center had to undergo an inspection / review of its surgical procedures, outcomes, patient treatment and other factors. Full press release follows: St. David’s Medical Center Bariatric Center Recognized for High-Quality Care with a Bariatric Surgery Center of Excellence Designation St. David’s Medical Center announced today that it has been named an American Society for Bariatric Surgery (ASBS) Bariatric Surgery Center of Excellence. The ASBS Center of Excellence designation recognizes surgical programs with a demonstrated track record of favorable outcomes in weight loss surgery. According to a report released in 2007 by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the number of weight loss surgeries has grown from 16,000 procedures performed in 1992 to 170,000 performed in 2005. Faced with clinical evidence that the most experienced and best-run bariatric surgery programs have by far the lowest rates of complications, the ASBS Centers of Excellence program was created to recognize bariatric surgery centers that perform well. To earn a Center of Excellence designation, St. David’s Medical Center and its co-applicant surgeons and surgeon practice underwent a rigorous application process and site inspection during which all aspects of the program’s surgical processes were closely examined and data on health outcomes was collected. Surgical Review Corporation (SRC), an organization dedicated to pursuing surgical excellence, formulates and establishes the rigorous standards with which St. David’s Medical Center and other Centers of Excellence must comply and thoroughly inspects and evaluates each candidate for designation. Upon review, SRC recommends approval of designation for those physicians and facilities whose practices and outcomes meet the stringent demands set forth in the application process. “Due to the increasing prevalence of morbid obesity and the potential to greatly improve the health of these individuals, we recognized the need to implement a systematic approach to improve quality and reduce the risks inherent in operating on a person with these serious medical conditions,” said Dr. Tim Faulkenberry, Medical Director, St. David’s Medical Center Bariatric Program. “Our Center of Excellence designation signifies that St. David’s and the surgeons who were awarded the Center of Excellence status in conjunction with the hospital have established a comprehensive program that maintains high standards and achieves top performance.” In addition to Dr. Faulkenberry, Dr. Mark Sherrod, Dr. Nancy Marquez, Dr. Patrick Dillawn, and Dr. Steven Fass, all of Southwest Bariatric Surgeons, have been designated as Center of Excellence surgeons. Obesity has become a significant national health issue, with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reporting that 66 percent of all U.S. adults are overweight or obese. Morbid obesity is closely correlated with a number of serious conditions that severely undermine the health of overweight patients, including heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes. Weight loss surgery can help obese patients improve and even eliminate these conditions. St. David’s Medical Center opened its Bariatric Center in August, 2002. The Bariatric Center offers a comprehensive program that includes preoperative testing, psychological counseling, nutrition and exercise consultation, and postoperative support groups. A free seminar about weight loss surgery will be held on Thursday, July 5, 2007, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. at St. David’s Medical Center. To register, call 867-LIFE (5433) or e-mail sdmc.bariatrics@stdavids.com . About St. David’s Medical Center Since 1924, St. David’s Medical Center has provided quality medical care to the residents of Central Texas. Conveniently located in central Austin at 32nd Street and IH-35, St. David’s Medical Center provides comprehensive care with special expertise in neurology and neurosurgery, cardiac services, bariatric surgery, orthopedics, maternity and newborn services and rehabilitation. The medical center includes St. David’s Hospital (acute care) and St. David’s Rehabilitation Center (physical medicine and rehabilitation). For more information, please visit www.stdavidshospital.com . About American Society for Bariatric Surgery The American Society for Bariatric Surgery (ASBS) is the largest society for this specialty in the world. Founded in 1983, foremost American surgeons have formed the society’s leadership and have established an excellent organization with educational and support programs for surgeons and allied health professionals. The purpose of the society is to advance the art and science of bariatric surgery by continued encouragement of its members to: pursue investigations in both the clinic and the laboratory; interchange ideas, information and experience pertaining to bariatric surgery; promote guidelines for ethical patient selection and care; develop educational programs for physicians, paramedical persons, and lay people; and promote outcome studies and quality assurance. For more information about ASBS, please visit www.asbs.org . Filed Under: Surgery Centers Speak Your Mind Cancel reply Name * Email * Website Search the Site Recent News UK Weight Loss Surgery Clinics Opened by Bodycraft – Two London Locations Teens Lack Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery: The Real Story Oregon Pays for Some Weight Loss Surgery Study: Weight-Loss Surgery Safe for the Mildly Obese? Knoxville Bariatric Surgeons Earn ASMBS Certification Bariatric Surgeons Lobby the FDA for Broader Use of Lap Band Sponsored Links Bariatric Vo