Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 07:43:31 GMT
X-Varnish: 2080399883
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
age: 0
X-Cache: MISS

Natural Herbal Treatments - Natural Remedy for Anxiety Can Relieve Stress Home > Natural Remedy > Natural Remedy for Anxiety Natural Remedy for Anxiety Can Relieve Stress Not all stress is bad as certain forms of stress can help certain functions. Some people
even function better under stress but too much too often can lead to anxiety attacks and this is when you should
seek a natural remedy for anxiety. Sometimes a natural remedy for anxiety is as simple as taking time out from a hectic schedule and just being
able to focus on breathing. Take a 10 minute break every hour and at least once or twice a day. During one of these
breaks; take slow deeps breaths and then exhale. Reducing caffeine intake is another natural remedy for anxiety as caffeine is a stimulant. Small doses of
caffeine increases bile stimulation and has been shown to lower cholesterol but too much caffeine can increase
stress levels. Natural Supplements Help Reduce Anxiety Should you decide to add supplements as a natural remedy for anxiety check with your doctor first to insure they
won’t interact with any existing medications you may be taking. Also, if you have any medical problems such as high
blood pressure or diabetes, your doctor can tell you if the supplements are safe. If you do experiment with a natural remedy for anxiety start with one supplement at a time. If you take several
different supplements and experience any unwanted side affects, you won’t know which one is causing them. It may be possible to mix different herbs to form a natural remedy for anxiety that will work for you, but this
should be done only under the guidance of a licensed naturopathic physician. Many vitamins are useful in fighting stress such as B6 and B12 as they help improve the body’s nervous system.
Many European countries have approved Kava Kava as a treatment for anxiety and insomnia without drowsiness and no
addictive side affects. Kava Kava, however, does not mix well with alcohol, prescriptions for depression such as
valium and Xanax or with many prescription sleeping pills. A popular anti-depressive herb St. John’s Wart has also been shown to be a natural remedy for anxiety as well.
It must be taken for several weeks before the effects can be felt and research shows it lowers stress levels
without fogging your thinking. Valerian, very popular in Europe, is a natural sedative and isn’t addictive as some chemical sedatives are, and
is used as a natural remedy for anxiety. It generally induces sleep, and if you are already taking prescription
sedatives, it is not advisable to add valerian to the mix. Latest Health News DISCLAIMER : This information is not presented by a medical practitioner and is
for educational and informational purposes only. The content is not intended to be a substitute for professional
medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health care
provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice
or delay in seeking it because of something you have read. Since natural and/or dietary supplements are not FDA approved they must be accompanied
by a two-part disclaimer on the product label: that the statement has not been evaluated by FDA and that the
product is not intended to “diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.” □ Home □ Natural Remedy □ Natural Herbal Remedy □ Natural Health Remedy □ Natural Remedy for a Sinus Infection □ Natural Remedy for a Yeast Infection □ Natural Remedy for Acid Reflux □ Natural Remedy for Allergies □ Natural Remedy for Anxiety □ Natural Remedy for Arthritis □ Natural Remedy for Bladder Infections □ Natural Remedy for Cold Sores □ Natural Remedy for Constipation □ Natural Remedy for Depression □ Natural Remedy for Diabetes □ Natural Remedy for Hair Growth □ Natural Remedy for Headaches □ Natural Remedy for Heartburn □ Natural Remedy for High Blood Pressure □ Natural Remedy for High Cholesterol □ Natural Remedy for Hypertension □ Natural Remedy for IBS □ Natural Remedy for Insomnia □ Natural Remedy for Kidney Stones □ Natural Remedies for Menopause □ Natural Remedy for PMS □ Natural Remedy for Psoriasis □ Natural Remedy for Rheumatoid Arthritis □ Natural Remedy for Thyroid □ Natural Sleep Remedy □ Natural Weight Loss Remedy □ Natural Healing Remedy □ Natural Hair Loss Remedy □ Natural Flea Remedy □ Natural Cold Remedy □ Natural Cellulite Remedy □ Natural Cancer Remedy □ Natural Asthma Remedy □ Natural Acne Remedies □ Natural Remedy for Hemorrhoids □ Site Map Copyright 200