Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Corsets: A Type of Spinal Brace - A Treatment Option for Low Back Pain Treatments › Spinal Bracing › Text Size: A A A Corsets: A Type of Spinal Brace A Treatment Option for Low Back Pain Written by Kelly Rehan ; Reviewed by Nicola V. Hawkinson, DNP, RN Tweet There are many types of spinal braces, which are also known as orthotics or    orthoses. This article will focus on corsets, a type of spinal brace commonly    used to treat low back pain . If you'd like to read a comprehensive article about    all types of spinal bracing, please read our spinal bracing overview . Low back pain can be caused by a number of things. Corset braces are often    prescribed to treat low back pain associated with: degenerative disc disease trauma, fracture, or injury spinal deformity (such as scoliosis ) A corset brace may also be used to immobilize your back after spine surgery . You may be interested in these related articles: Neck Braces: A Type of Spinal Brace Trochanteric Belts: A Type of Spinal Brace Low Back Pain Center Spinal Bracing What Does a Corset Brace Look Like? A corset brace is fairly easy to visualize. It looks similar to the corsets    women wore centuries ago. Corset braces are tightened using laces that can be    tied in the back, front, or side. In most cases, these braces are made of cotton    or nylon. And unlike its fashionable counterpart, corset braces are actually    quite comfortable. Corset braces are held up with straps that go over the shoulder. From the front,    the corset usually covers the area from the sternum down to the pelvic area.    From the back, it covers from the shoulder down to below the buttocks. How Does a Corset Brace Work? Corsets work by increasing the pressure in the abdomen, thus reducing the amount    of weight placed on sensitive spinal structures, such as vertebrae and joints.    By reducing the stress on these structures, it creates an environment that allows    your spine to heal faster. Though the corset brace is made of lightweight cloth, it may contain metal    bars that provide rigid reinforcements to prevent movement and help improve    posture. These bars may be added or removed based on your specific treatment    needs. For instance, if you need a brace to help you recover from lumbar spine    surgery, the metal bars will restrict movement and allow the sensitive surgical    area to heal easier. Special Considerations As with all spinal braces, the effectiveness of a corset brace is dependent    on how well it has been tailored to you. In other words, bracing isn't a one-size-fits-all    treatment. It's essential that your brace fits you properly. Fortunately, there are specialists known as orthotists who will ensure that    your corset brace is created just for you. There's also no standard length of    time that you will wear the brace. How long you'll wear the corset brace varies    among patients, so always follow your doctor's specific instructions. He or    she will show you how to care for the brace and make specific recommendations    to maximize the effectiveness of the treatment. View Sources Braces. "Conservative" Treatment for Back and Neck Pain page. DePuy Spine      Web site, Available at: http://www.allaboutbackandneckpain.com/explore/braces.asp.      Accessed March 18, 2010. Kulkarni SS. Spinal Orthotics page. eMedicine Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation      Web site. Available at: http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/314921-overview.      August 25, 2008. Accessed March 17, 2010. Updated on: 05/17/10 Continue Reading: Hyperextension Braces: A Type of Spinal Brace About Spinal Bracing Spinal Bracing Overview Conditions Treated by Spinal Bracing Questions to Ask Your Orthotist Types of Spinal Braces Corsets Hyperextension Braces Molded Jackets Neck Braces Rigid Braces Sacroiliac and Lumbosacral Belts Trochanteric Belts Resources Spinal Anatomy Spinal Conditions A-Z Videos and Animations Treatment Update Could my low back pain be SI-joint related? Learn more » Email Page Print RSS Discuss Stay Informed with SpineUniverse Sign up to receive free updates on news, research, Community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics. Back Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Kyphosis Scoliosis Spinal Bracing Spine Surgery Whiplash Discuss your Scoliosis with the patient community. Related Resources Slideshow Dealing with Stress to Deal with Back Pain Resource Center Surgical & Non-Surgical Options for a Pain-free Life Sponsored by: From our Sponsor Could your low back pain be SI-joint related? Video Low Back Pain Animation Video Series Video Series:  Exercises for Lumbar Degenerative Disc Disease Slideshow Pilates for a Healthy Spine Slideshow Herniated Disc Slideshow Video Back and Neck Braces Animation Slideshow Unusual Treatments for Back Pain Resource Center Patients' Guide To Laser Spine Surgery Sponsored by: Video Series Video Series:  Exercises for Spondylolisthesis Slideshow 5 Simple Yoga Poses for Back Pain Slideshow Sciatica Slideshow Resource Center Reducing Radiation During Spine Surgery Sponsored by: Resource Center Minimally Invasive Alternatives to Traditional Spine Surgery Sponsored by: Connect with Others in the Patient Community! Log In or Sign Up Now! Conditions Ankylosing Spondylitis Back Pain Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Discs Fibromyalgia Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Kyphosis Low Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Sciatica Scoliosis Spinal Cord Injury Spinal Fractures Spinal Stenosis Spinal Tumors Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis) Sprains and Strains Upper Back Pain Whiplash Other Back Problems A-Z Treatments Alternative Treatments Chiropractic Drugs and Medications Mental & Emotional Therapy Pain Management Physical Therapy Spinal Bracing Surgery Wellness Ergonomics Exercise Weight Loss Resources Back Products Clinical Trials Exams and Tests Links of Interest Partners in Education Podcasts Recommended Books Resource Centers Spinal Anatomy SpineAdvisor eNewsletter Archive SpineUniverse en Español Video Directory Community Advice Find A Specialist Expert Blogs For Professionals Spine Conditions Ankylosing Spondylitis Back Pain Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Discs Fibromyalgia Kyphosis Neck Pain Osteoporosis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sciatica Scoliosis Spinal Stenosis Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis) Other Back Problems A-Z Back Pain and Neck Pain Resources Spinal Anatomy Community Advice Clinical Trials Exams and Tests Expert Blogs Find a Doctor for Your Back Pain SpineUniverse en Español SpineAdvisor eNewsletter Archive Back Pain Resource Centers Back Pain Video Directory Policy and Contact About SpineUniverse Press Releases Our Awards Advertising Opportunities Editorial Board Editorial Guidelines Partners and Sponsors Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Terms of Use Contact Us For Professionals © 1999-2012 Vertical Health, LLC This information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem. SpineUniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the SpineUniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of our User Agreement Nicola V. Hawkinson, DNP, RN This ar