
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 01:13:22 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.2-1ubuntu4.11
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 01:13:23 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Spinal Cord Injuries : Rothman Institute Orthopaedics Click to Request an Appointment or call 1-800-321-9999 Home About Us News Contact Search: Physicians Specialties Locations Services Online Resources Workers Comp Referring Physicians Home // Specialties // Conditions //  Spinal Cord Injuries Spinal Cord Injuries Related Specialties Spine Make an Appointment First Name Last Name E-mail Phone Spinal cord injury (SCI) occurs when a traumatic event results in damage to cells in the spinal cord or severs the nerve tracts that relay signals up and down the spinal cord. The most common types of spinal cord injury include: *Contusion (bruising of the spinal cord) *Compression (caused by pressure on the spinal cord) Other types of spinal cord injury include lacerations (severing or tearing of nerve fibers) and central cord syndrome (specific damage to the cervical region of the spinal cord). There is a wide variety of spinal injuries that can cause spinal cord trauma. These include, but are not limited to, traffic accidents, sports-related injuries, work-related mishaps, hunting injuries involving firearms, physical battery, and virtually any sudden and severe shock to the spinal cord. In fact, even a relatively minor injury can result in spinal cord trauma, especially if the spinal cord is compressed or unstable. The most common causes of serious spinal cord injury occur following trauma.  In this situation, the bones of the spine may fracture or the discs may be dislodged leading to trauma to the delicate spinal cord that is surrounded by the bone and discs of the spine. Fluid accumulation, bleeding, and swelling can occur either inside or outside the spinal cord (but still within the spinal canal). This accumulation of fluid or blood can damage the spinal cord through compression. Spinal cord injuries occur in approximately 12,000 to 15,000 people per year in the U.S. About 10,000 of these people are permanently paralyzed, and many of the rest die as a result of their injuries. Young, healthy, and active males between the ages of 15 and 35 are most often the victims of spinal cord trauma. Only about five percent of spinal cord injuries occur in children. The fatality rate is higher with pediatric spine injuries. Spinal cord injuries in older individuals are more likely to occur due to spines weakened by osteoarthritis and osteoporosis. In addition, those patients may have problems with balance problems due to illness or medication, or clumsiness (from the after effects of a stroke, for instance) and thus may be significantly more susceptible. Frequently Asked Questions Treatment Treatment begins with the emergency medical personnel who make an initial evaluation and immobilize the patient for transport. Immediate medical care within the first 8 hours following injury can be critical to the patient's recovery. When injury occurs and for a period of time thereafter, the spinal cord responds by swelling. Treatment starts with steroid drugs such as methylprednisolone. These drugs reduce inflammation in the injured area and help to prevent further damage to cellular membranes that can cause nerve death. Sparing nerves from further damage and death is crucial. Each patient's injury is unique. Some patients require surgery to stabilize the spine, correcting any misalignment and removing compression to the spinal cord caused by bone or disc that presses on the injured cord.  Spinal stabilization can also be important to prevent further damage in the future. Surgery Depending on the circumstances, when surgery is required, it may be performed early or later.  Each case requires careful consideration to define the course of treatment that will lead to the greatest benefit for the patient. When fusion of the spine is required, bone is made to grow between the injured vertebrae.  Spinal instrumentation is often implanted to restore the stability to the spine and assist in the healing of the spinal fusion.  Instrumentation may include rods, wires, hooks and/or screws depending on the case. Related Physicians Todd J. Albert, M.D. Alexander R. Vaccaro, M.D., Ph.D. Alan S. Hilibrand, M.D. D. Greg Anderson, M.D. Jeffrey A. Rihn, M.D. Kris E. Radcliff, M.D. Specialties Hip Knee Spine Sports Medicine Shoulder & Elbow Foot & Ankle Hand & Wrist Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Orthopaedic Oncology About Us History Mission, Vision & Values Why Choose the Rothman Institute? Our Commitment Careers Services X-Rays MRI Physical Therapy Orthotics Community Education Lecture Series Velocity Sports Performance Online Resources Make an Appointment Request Your Medical Records Request Your X-Rays W-9 Forms Patient Registration Pay My Bill Billing Inquiries Locations Center City Philadelphia Northeast Philadelphia South Philadelphia King of Prussia, PA Media, PA West Chester, PA Bryn Mawr, PA Wynnewood, PA Bensalem, PA Voorhees, NJ Cherry Hill, NJ Washington Township, NJ Egg Harbor Township, NJ Manahawkin, NJ Marlton, NJ New Office: Marlton, NJ - Coming in March 2012 Follow Rothman Institute Online Sign up to receive e-mail updates and health information from Rothman Institute First Name Please enter your first name Last Name Please enter your last name Email Please enter your email address Please complete all required 