
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
Content-Type: text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 06:13:23 GMT
Connection: close

Sulfasalazine Reaction Report - Adverse drug reactions causing Diverticulitis - case studies for Diverticulitis and Diverticulitis treatments Sulfasalazine - Diverticulitis Sulfasalazine has been related to the side effect of Diverticulitis.  If you are taking Sulfasalazine and have experienced Diverticulitis this information may be of use to you. HOME :: Amazon.com Widgets Enter your search terms Submit search form Sulfasalazine Drug Insert (if available) IMPORTANT NOTE: The following information is intended to supplement, not substitute for, the expertise and judgment of your physician, pharmacist or other healthcare professional. It should not be construed to indicate that use of the drug is safe, appropriate, or effective for you. Consult your healthcare professional before using this drug. Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP SULFASALAZINE 
            		 - 
            		sulfasalazine tablet, film coated Vintage Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ---------- Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP Rx only DESCRIPTION Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg are formulated in a delayed-release tablet (enteric-coated) for oral administration. Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg are film coated with cellulose acetate phthalate to retard disintegration
         of the tablet in the stomach and reduce potential irritation of the gastric mucosa. Therapeutic Classification: Anti-inflammatory agent and/or immunomodulatory agent. Chemical Designation: 5-([p-(2-pyridylsulfamoyl)phenyl]azo) salicylic acid. Chemical Structure: Inactive ingredients: Carnauba wax, cellulose acetate phthalate, croscarmellose sodium, diethyl phthalate, microcrystalline
         cellulose, polyvinyl pyrilidone, pregelatinized starch, sodium stearyl fumarate, talc. CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics The mode of action of sulfasalazine (SSZ) or its metabolites, 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) and sulfapyridine (SP), is still
         under investigation, but may be related to the anti-inflammatory and/or immunomodulatory properties that have been observed
         in animal and in vitro models, to its affinity for connective tissue, and/or to the relatively high concentration it reaches in serous fluids,
         the liver and intestinal walls, as demonstrated in autoradiographic studies in animals. In ulcerative colitis, clinical studies
         utilizing rectal administration of SSZ, SP and 5-ASA have indicated that the major therapeutic action may reside in the 5-ASA
         moiety. The relative contribution of the parent drug and the major metabolites in rheumatoid arthritis is unknown. Pharmacokinetics In vivo studies have indicated that the absolute bioavailability of orally administered SSZ is less than 15% for parent drug. In
         the intestine, SSZ is metabolized by intestinal bacteria to SP and 5-ASA. Of the two species, SP is relatively well absorbed
         from the intestine and highly metabolized, while 5-ASA is much less well absorbed. Absorption: Following oral administration of 1 g of SSZ to 9 healthy males, less than 15% of a dose of SSZ is absorbed as parent drug.
         Detectable serum concentrations of SSZ have been found in healthy subjects within 90 minutes after the ingestion. Maximum
         concentrations of SSZ occur between 3 and 12 hours post-ingestion, with the mean peak concentration (6  mcg/mL) occurring
         at 6 hours. In comparison, peak plasma levels of both SP and 5-ASA occur approximately 10 hours after dosing. This longer time to peak
         is indicative of gastrointestinal transit to the lower intestine, where bacteria-mediated metabolism occurs. SP apparently
         is well absorbed from the colon, with an estimated bioavailability of 60%. In this same study, 5-ASA is much less well absorbed
         from the gastrointestinal tract, with an estimated bioavailability of from 10% to 30%. Distribution: Following intravenous injection, the calculated volume of distribution (Vdss) for SSZ was 7.5 ± 1.6 L. SSZ is highly bound
         to albumin (>99.3%), while SP is only about 70% bound to albumin. Acetylsulfapyridine (AcSP), the principal metabolite of
         SP, is approximately 90% bound to plasma proteins. Metabolism: As mentioned above, SSZ is metabolized by intestinal bacteria to SP and 5-ASA. Approximately 15% of a dose of SSZ is absorbed
         as parent and is metabolized to some extent in the liver to the same two species. The observed plasma half-life for intravenous
         sulfasalazine is 7.6 ± 3.4 hrs. The primary route of metabolism of SP is via acetylation to form AcSP. The rate of metabolism
         of SP to AcSP is dependent upon acetylator phenotype. In fast acetylators, the mean plasma half-life of SP is 10.4 hrs, while
         in slow acetylators it is 14.8 hours. SP can also be metabolized to 5-hydroxy-sulfapyridine (SPOH) and N-acetyl-5-hydroxy-sulfapyridine.
         5-ASA is primarily metabolized in both the liver and intestine to N-acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid via a non-acetylation phenotype
         dependent route. Due to low plasma levels produced by 5-ASA after oral administration, reliable estimates of plasma half-life
         are not possible. Excretion: Absorbed SP and 5-ASA and their metabolites are primarily eliminated in the urine either as free metabolites or as glucuronide
         conjugates. The majority of 5-ASA stays within the colonic lumen and is excreted as 5-ASA and acetyl-5-ASA with the feces.
         The calculated clearance of SSZ following intravenous administration was 1 L/hr. Renal clearance was estimated to account
         for 37% of total clearance. Special Populations Elderly: Elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis showed a prolonged plasma half-life for SSZ, SP, and their metabolites. The clinical
         impact of this is unknown. Pediatric: Small studies have been reported in the literature in children down to the age of 4 years with ulcerative colitis and inflammatory
         bowel disease. In these populations, relative to adults, the pharmacokinetics of SSZ and SP correlated poorly with either
         age or dose. To date, comparative pharmacokinetic trials have not been conducted to determine whether or not significant pharmacokinetic
         differences exist between children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and adults with rheumatoid arthritis. Acetylator Status: The metabolism of SP to AcSP is mediated by polymorphic enzymes such that two distinct populations of slow and fast metabolizers
         exist. Approximately 60% of the Caucasian population can be classified as belonging to the slow acetylator phenotype. These
         subjects will display a prolonged plasma half-life for SP (14.8 hrs vs. 10.4 hrs) and an accumulation of higher plasma levels
         of SP than fast acetylators. The clinical implication of this is unclear; however, in a small pharmacokinetic trial where
         acetylator status was determined, subjects who were slow acetylators of SP showed a higher incidence of adverse events. Gender: Gender appears not to have an effect on either the rate or the pattern of metabolites of SSZ, SP, or 5-ASA. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg are indicated: a) in the treatment of mild to moderate ulcerative colitis, and as adjunctive therapy in severe ulcerative colitis; b) for the prolongation of the remission period between acute attacks of ulcerative colitis; c) in the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis who have responded inadequately to salicylates or other nonsteroidal
            anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., an insufficient therapeutic response to, or intolerance of, an adequate trial of full doses
            of one or more nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs); and d) in the treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular-course 1 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis who have responded inadequately to salicylates or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg is particularly indicated in patients with ulcerative colitis who cannot
         take uncoated sulfasalazine tablets because of gastrointestinal intolerance, and in whom there is evidence that this intolerance
         is not primarily the result of high blood levels of sulfapyridine and its metabolites, e.g., patients experiencing nausea
         and vomiting with the first few doses of the drug, or patients in whom a reduction in dosage does not alleviate the adverse
         gastrointestinal effects. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis or juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, rest and physiotherapy as indicated should be continued.
         Unlike anti-inflammatory drugs, Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg does not produce an immediate response.
         Concurrent treatment with analgesics and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is recommended at least until the effect
         of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg is apparent. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg are contraindicated in: Hypersensitivity to sulfasalazine, its metabolites, sulfonamides or salicylates, Patients with intestinal or urinary obstruction, Patients with porphyria, as the sulfonamides have been reported to precipitate an acute attack. WARNINGS Only after critical appraisal should Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg be given to patients with hepatic
         or renal damage or blood dyscrasias. Deaths associated with the administration of sulfasalazine have been reported from hypersensitivity
         reactions, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, other blood dyscrasias, renal and liver damage, irreversible neuromuscular and
         central nervous system changes, and fibrosing alveolitis. The presence of clinical signs such as sore throat, fever, pallor,
         purpura or jaundice may be indications of serious blood disorders. Complete blood counts, as well as urinalysis with careful
         microscopic examination, should be done frequently in patients receiving Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg
         (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Oligospermia and infertility have been observed in men treated with sulfasalazine; however, withdrawal of the drug appears
         to reverse these effects. PRECAUTIONS General: Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg should be given with caution to patients with severe allergy or bronchial
         asthma. Adequate fluid intake must be maintained in order to prevent crystalluria and stone formation. Patients with glucose-6-phosphate
         dehydrogenase deficiency should be observed closely for signs of hemolytic anemia. This reaction is frequently dose related.
         If toxic or hypersensitivity reactions occur, Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg should be discontinued immediately. Isolated instances have been reported when Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg have passed undisintegrated.
         If this is observed, the administration of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg should be discontinued immediately. Information for Patients: Patients should be informed of the possibility of adverse effects and of the need for careful medical supervision. The occurrence
         of sore throat, fever, pallor, purpura or jaundice may indicate a serious blood disorder. Should any of these occur, the patient
         should seek medical advice. Patients should be instructed to take Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg in evenly divided doses, preferably
         after meals, and to swallow the tablets whole. Additionally, patients should be advised that sulfasalazine may produce an
         orange-yellow discoloration of the urine or skin. Ulcerative Colitis: Patients with ulcerative colitis should be made aware that ulcerative colitis rarely remits completely, and that the risk
         of relapse can be substantially reduced by continued administration of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg
         at a maintenance dosage. Rheumatoid Arthritis: Rheumatoid arthritis rarely remits. Therefore, continued administration of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500
         mg is indicated. Patients requiring sulfasalazine should follow up with their physicians to determine the need for continued
         administration. Laboratory Tests: Complete blood counts, including differential white cell count and liver function tests, should be performed before starting
         Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg and every second week during the first three months of therapy. During
         the second three months, the same tests should be done once monthly and thereafter once every three months, and as clinically
         indicated. Urinalysis and an assessment of renal function should also be done periodically during treatment with Sulfasalazine
         Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg. The determination of serum sulfapyridine levels may be useful since concentrations greater than 50 mcg/mL appear to be associated
         with an increased incidence of adverse reactions. Drug Interactions: Reduced absorption of folic acid and digoxin have been reported when those agents were administered concomitantly with sulfasalazine. When daily doses of sulfasalazine 2 g  and weekly doses of methotrexate 7.5 mg were coadministered to 15 rheumatoid arthritis
         patients in a drug-drug interaction study, the pharmacokinetic disposition of the drugs was not altered. Daily doses of sulfasalazine
         2 g (maximum 3 g) and weekly doses of methotrexate 7.5 mg (maximum 15 mg) were administered alone or in combination to 310
         rheumatoid arthritis patients in two controlled 52-week clinical studies. The overall toxicity profile of the combination
         revealed an increased incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events, especially nausea, when compared to the incidence associated
         with either drug administered alone. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions: The presence of sulfasalazine or its metabolites in body fluids has not been reported to interfere with laboratory test procedures. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility: Two year oral carcinogenicity studies were conducted in male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. Sulfasalazine was tested
         at 84 (496 mg/m 2 ), 168 (991 mg/m 2 ) and 337.5 (1991 mg/m 2 ) mg/kg/day doses in rats. A statistically significant increase in the incidence of urinary bladder transitional cell papillomas
         was observed in male rats. In female rats, two (4%) of the 337.5 mg/kg rats had transitional cell papilloma of the kidney.
         The increased incidence of neoplasms in the urinary bladder and kidney of rats was also associated with an increase in the
         renal calculi formation and hyperplasia of transitional cell epithelium. For the mouse study, sulfasalazine was tested at
         675 (2025 mg/m 2 ), 1350 (4050 mg/m 2 ) and 2700 (8100 mg/m 2 ) mg/kg/day. The incidence of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma in male and female mice was significantly greater than the
         control at all doses tested. Sulfasalazine did not show the mutagenicity in the bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames test) or in the L51784 mouse lymphoma
         cell assay at the HGPRT gene. However, sulfasalazine showed equivocal mutagenic response in the micronucleus assay of mouse
         and rat bone marrow and mouse peripheral RBC and in the sister chromatid exchange, chromosomal aberration, and micronucleus
         assays in lymphocytes obtained from humans. Impairment of male fertility was observed in reproductive studies performed in rats at a dose of 800 mg/kg/day (4800 mg/m 2 ). Oligospermia and infertility have been described in men treated with sulfasalazine. Withdrawal of the drug appears to reverse
         these effects. Pregnancy: Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category B. Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence
         of impaired female fertility or harm to the fetus due to sulfasalazine. There are, however, no adequate and well-controlled
         studies in pregnant women. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should
         be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. A national survey evaluated the outcome of pregnancies associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In 186 pregnancies
         in women treated with sulfasalazine alone or sulfasalazine and concomitant steroid therapy, the incidence of fetal morbidity
         and mortality was comparable both to that of 245 untreated IBD pregnancies, and to pregnancies in the general population. 2 A study of 1455 pregnancies associated with exposure to sulfonamides including sulfasalazine, indicated that this group of
         drugs did not appear to be associated with fetal malformation. 3 A review of the medical literature covering 1155 pregnancies in women with ulcerative colitis suggested that the outcome
         was similar to that expected in the general population. 4 No clinical studies have been performed to evaluate the effect of sulfasalazine on the growth development and functional maturation
         of children whose mothers received the drug during pregnancy. Nonteratogenic Effects: Sulfasalazine and sulfapyridine pass the placental barrier. Although sulfapyridine has been shown to have poor bilirubin-displacing
         capacity, the potential for kernicterus in newborns should be kept in mind. A case of agranulocytosis has been reported in an infant whose mother was taking both sulfasalazine and prednisone throughout
         pregnancy. Nursing Mothers: Caution should be exercised when Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg is administered to a nursing mother. Sulfonamides
         are excreted in the milk. In the newborn, they compete with bilirubin for binding sites on the plasma proteins and may cause
         kernicterus. Insignificant amounts of uncleaved sulfasalazine have been found in milk, whereas the sulfapyridine levels in
         milk are about 30% to 60% of those in the maternal serum. Sulfapyridine has been shown to have a poor bilirubin-displacing
         capacity. Pediatric Use: The safety and effectiveness of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg in pediatric patients below the age of
         two years with ulcerative colitis have not been established. The safety and effectiveness of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg for the treatment of the signs and symptoms
         of polyarticular-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in pediatric patients ages 6-16 years is supported by evidence from
         adequate and well-controlled studies in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The extrapolation from adults with rheumatoid
         arthritis to children with polyarticular-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis is based on similarities in disease and response
         to therapy between these two patient populations. Published studies support the extrapolation of safety and effectiveness
         for sulfasalazine to polyarticular-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis 1,5 (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). It has been reported that the frequency of adverse events in patients with systemic-course of juvenile arthritis is high. 6 Use in children with systemic-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis has frequently resulted in a serum sickness-like reaction. 5 This reaction is often severe and presents as fever, nausea, vomiting, headache, rash, and abnormal liver function tests.
         Treatment of systemic-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis with sulfasalazine is not recommended. ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions associated with sulfasalazine in ulcerative colitis are anorexia, headache, nausea, vomiting,
         gastric distress, and apparently reversible oligospermia. These occur in about one-third of the patients. Less frequent adverse
         reactions are pruritus, urticaria, rash, fever, Heinz body anemia, hemolytic anemia and cyanosis, which may occur at a frequency
         of 1 in 30 patients or less. Experience suggests that with a daily dose of 4 g or more, or total serum sulfapyridine levels
         above 50 mcg/mL, the incidence of adverse reactions tends to increase. Similar adverse reactions are associated with sulfasalazine use in adult rheumatoid arthritis, although there was a greater
         incidence of some reactions. In rheumatoid arthritis studies, the following common adverse reactions were noted: nausea (19%),
         dyspepsia (13%), rash (13%), headache (9%), abdominal pain (8%), vomiting (8%), fever (5%), dizziness (4%), stomatitis (4%),
         pruritis (4%), abnormal liver function tests (4%), leukopenia (3%), and thrombocytopenia (1%). One report 7 showed a 10% rate of immunoglobulin suppression, which was slowly reversible and rarely accompanied by clinical findings. In general, the adverse reactions in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patients are similar to those seen in patients with adult
         rheumatoid arthritis except for a high frequency of serum sickness-like syndrome in systemic-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
         (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). One clinical trial showed an approximate 10% rate of immunoglobulin suppression. 1 Although the listing which follows includes a few adverse reactions which have not been reported with this specific drug,
         the pharmacological similarities among the sulfonamides require that each of these reactions be considered when Sulfasalazine
         Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg is administered. Less common or rare adverse reactions include: Blood dyscrasias: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, megaloblastic (macrocytic) anemia, purpura, hypoprothrombinemia, methemoglobinemia, congenital
         neutropenia, and myelodysplastic syndrome. Hypersensitivity reactions: erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome), exfoliative dermatitis, epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome) with corneal
         damage, anaphylaxis, serum sickness syndrome, pneumonitis with or without eosinophilia, vasculitis, fibrosing alveolitis,
         pleuritis, pericarditis with or without tamponade, allergic myocarditis, polyarteritis nodosa, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome,
         hepatitis and hepatic necrosis with or without immune complexes, fulminant hepatitis, sometimes leading to liver transplantation,
         parapsoriasis varioliformis acuta (Mucha-Haberman syndrome), rhabdomyolysis, photosensitization, arthralgia, periorbital edema,
         conjunctival and scleral injection and alopecia. Gastrointestinal reactions: hepatitis, pancreatitis, bloody diarrhea, impaired folic acid absorption, impaired digoxin absorption, diarrhea, and neutropenic
         enterocolitis. Central nervous system reactions: transverse myelitis, convulsions, meningitis, transient lesions of the posterior spinal column, cauda equina syndrome, Guillain-Barre
         syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, mental depression, vertigo, hearing loss, insomnia, ataxia, hallucinations, tinnitus and
         drowsiness. Renal reactions: toxic nephrosis with oliguria and anuria, nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, urinary tract infections, hematuria, crystalluria,
         proteinuria, and hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Other reactions: urine discoloration and skin discoloration. The sulfonamides bear certain chemical similarities to some goitrogens, diuretics (acetazolamide and the thiazides), and oral
         hypoglycemic agents. Goiter production, diuresis and hypoglycemia have occurred rarely in patients receiving sulfonamides.
         Cross-sensitivity may exist with these agents. Rats appear to be especially susceptible to the goitrogenic effects of sulfonamides
         and long-term administration has produced thyroid malignancies in this species. Postmarketing Reports The following events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine
         in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot
         be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential
         causal connection to mesalamine: Gastrointestinal: Reports of hepatotoxicity, including elevated liver function tests (SGOT/AST, SGPT/ALT, GGT, LDH, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin),
         jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, cirrhosis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure.
         Some of these cases were fatal. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome, which included hepatic function changes, was also reported. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None reported. OVERDOSAGE There is evidence that the incidence and severity of toxicity following overdosage is directly related to the total serum
         sulfapyridine concentration. Symptoms of overdosage may include nausea, vomiting, gastric distress and abdominal pains. In
         more advanced cases, central nervous system symptoms such as drowsiness, convulsions, etc., may be observed. Serum sulfapyridine
         concentrations may be used to monitor the progress of recovery from overdosage. There are no documented reports of deaths due to ingestion of large single doses of sulfasalazine. It has not been possible
         to determine the LD 50 in laboratory animals such as mice, since the highest oral daily dose of sulfasalazine which can be given (12 g/kg) is not
         lethal. Doses of regular sulfasalazine tablets of 16 g per day have been given to patients without mortality. Instructions for Overdosage: Gastric lavage or emesis plus catharsis as indicated. Alkalinize urine. If kidney function is normal, force fluids. If anuria
         is present, restrict fluids and salt, and treat appropriately. Catheterization of the ureters may be indicated for complete
         renal blockage by crystals. The low molecular weight of sulfasalazine and its metabolites may facilitate their removal by
         dialysis. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg should be adjusted to each individual’s response and tolerance. Patients should be instructed to take Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg  in evenly divided doses, preferably
         after meals, and to swallow the tablets whole. Ulcerative Colitis Initial Therapy: Adults: 3 to 4 g daily in evenly divided doses with dosage intervals not exceeding eight hours. It may be advisable to initiate therapy
         with a lower dosage, e.g., 1 to 2 g daily, to reduce possible gastrointestinal intolerance. If daily doses exceeding 4 g are
         required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect, the increased risk of toxicity should be kept in mind. Children, six years of age and older: 40 to 60 mg/kg of body weight in each 24-hour period, divided into 3 to 6 doses. Maintenance Therapy: Adults: 2 g daily. Children, six years of age and older: 30 mg/kg of body weight in each 24-hour period, divided into 4 doses. The response of acute ulcerative colitis to Sulfasalazine
         Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg can be evaluated by clinical criteria, including the presence of fever, weight changes,
         and degree and frequency of diarrhea and bleeding, as well as by sigmoidoscopy and the evaluation of biopsy samples. It is
         often necessary to continue medication even when clinical symptoms, including diarrhea, have been controlled. When endoscopic
         examination confirms satisfactory improvement, dosage of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg should be reduced
         to a maintenance level. If diarrhea recurs, dosage should be increased to previously effective levels. Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg is particularly indicated in patients who cannot take uncoated sulfasalazine
         tablets because of gastrointestinal intolerance (e.g., anorexia, nausea). If symptoms of gastric intolerance (anorexia, nausea,
         vomiting, etc.) occur after the first few doses of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg, they are probably due
         to increased serum levels of total sulfapyridine, and may be alleviated by halving the daily dose of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release
         Tablets, USP, 500 mg and subsequently increasing it gradually over several days. If gastric intolerance continues, the drug
         should be stopped for 5 to 7 days, then reintroduced at a lower daily dose. Adult Rheumatoid Arthritis: 2 g daily in two evenly divided doses. It is advisable to initiate therapy with a lower dosage of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release
         Tablets, USP, 500 mg, e.g., 0.5 to 1 g daily, to reduce possible gastrointestinal intolerance. A suggested dosing schedule
         is given below. In rheumatoid arthritis, the effect of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg can be assessed by the degree of
         improvement in the number and extent of actively inflamed joints. A therapeutic response has been observed as early as 4 weeks
         after starting treatment with Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg, but treatment for 12 weeks may be required
         in some patients before clinical benefit is noted. Consideration can be given to increasing the daily dose of Sulfasalazine
         Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg to 3 g if the clinical response after 12 weeks is inadequate. Careful monitoring is recommended
         for doses over 2 g per day. Suggested Dosing Schedule for Adult Rheumatoid Arthritis: Number of Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg Week of Treatment Morning Evening 1 - One 2 One One 3 One Two 4 Two Two Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis – polyarticular course: Children, six years of age and older: 30 to 50 mg/kg of body weight daily in two evenly divided doses. Typically, the maximum dose is 2 g per day. To reduce possible
         gastrointestinal intolerance, begin with a quarter to a third of the planned maintenance dose and increase weekly until reaching
         the maintenance dose at one month. Some patients may be sensitive to treatment with sulfasalazine. Various desensitization-like regimens have been reported to
         be effective in 34 of 53 patients, 8 7 of 8 patients, 9 and 19 of 20 patients. 10 These regimens suggest starting with a total daily dose of 50 to 250 mg sulfasalazine initially, and doubling it every 4
         to 7 days until the desired therapeutic level is achieved. If the symptoms of sensitivity recur, Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release
         Tablets, USP, 500 mg should be discontinued. Desensitization should not be attempted in patients who have a history of agranulocytosis,
         or who have experienced an anaphylactoid reaction while previously receiving sulfasalazine. HOW SUPPLIED Sulfasalazine Delayed-Release Tablets, USP, 500 mg, are oval, gold-colored, convex, coated tablets, debossed "5905" on the
         top side and "V" on the bottom side. They are available in the following package sizes: 10’s, 100’s, 300’s, 500’s and 1000’s Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. REFERENCES van Rossum MAJ, et al. Sulfasalazine in the treatment of juvenile chronic arthritis: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
            multicenter study. Arth Rheum 1998; 41:808-816. Mogadam M, et al. Pregnancy in inflammatory bowel disease: effect of sulfasalazine and corticosteroids on fetal outcome. Gastroenterology
            1981; 80: 726. Kaufman DW, editor. Birth defects and drugs during pregnancy. Littleton, MA: Publishing Sciences Group, Inc., 1977:296-313. Jarnerot G. Fertility, sterility and pregnancy in chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Scand J Gastroenterol 1982;17:1-4. Imundo LF, Jacobs JC. Sulfasalazine therapy for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol 1996; 23:360-366. Hertzberger-ten Cate R, Cats A. Toxicity of sulfasalazine in systemic juvenile chronic arthritis. Clin Exp Rheumatol 1991;9:85-8. Farr M, et al. Immunodeficiencies associated with sulphasalazine therapy in inflammatory arthritis. British Jnl Rheum 1991;30:413-417. Korelitz B, et al. Desensitization to sulfasalazine in allergic patients with IBD: an important therapeutic modality. Gastroenterology
            1982;82:1104. Holdworth CG. Sulphasalazine desensitization. Br Med J 1981; 282:110. Taffet SL, Das KM. Desensitization of patients with inflammatory bowel disease to sulfasalazine. Am J Med 1982; 73:520-4. Manufactured by: VINTAGE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. Charlotte, NC 28206 8180829 R12/06-R13 SULFASALAZINE sulfasalazine 
                     				tablet, film coated Product Information Product Type HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG NDC Product Code (Source) 0254-5905 Route of Administration ORAL DEA Schedule INGREDIENTS Name (Active Moiety) Type Strength sulfasalazine (sulfasalazine) Active 500 MILLIGRAM  In 1 TABLET carnauba wax Inactive cellulose acetate phthalate Inactive croscarmellose sodium Inactive diethyl phthalate Inactive microcrystalline cellulose Inactive polyvinyl pyrilidone Inactive pregelatinized starch Inactive sodium stearyl fumarate Inactive talc Inactive Product Characteristics Color YELLOW (gold) Score no score Shape OVAL Size 18mm Flavor Imprint Code 5905;V Contains Coating true Symbol false Packaging # NDC Package Description Multilevel Packaging 1 0254-5905-05 10 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 2 0254-5905-28 100 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 3 0254-5905-36 300 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 4 0254-5905-35 500 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None 5 0254-5905-38 1000 TABLET				
                           							In 1
                           							BOTTLE, PLASTIC None Revised: 01/2007 Vintage Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Report Details Drugs Involved in Report Drug Name Dosage Form Drug Involvement Route of Administration Amoun