Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Los Angeles Obesity Surgery Options | LA Lap Band Gastric Bypass Bariatric Surgery Options Weight Loss Surgery in Los Angeles, CA Non-Surgical Treatment Dieting, exercise, and medication have long been regarded as the conventional methods to achieve weight loss. Sometimes, these efforts are successful in the short term. However, for people who are morbidly obese , the results rarely last. For many, this can translate into what's called the "yo-yo syndrome," where patients continually gain and lose weight with the possibility of serious psychological and health consequences. Recent research reveals that conventional methods of weight loss generally fail to produce permanent weight loss . Several studies have shown that patients on diets, exercise programs, or medication are able to lose approximately 10% of their body weight but tend to regain two-thirds of it within one year, and almost all of it within five years. Another study found that less than 5% of patients in weight loss programs were able to maintain their reduced weight after five years. Surgical Treatment Over the years, weight-loss surgery has proven to be a successful method for the treatment of morbid obesity. Surgical options have continued to evolve and Surgical Weight Control Center is pleased to be able to offer patients the Roux en-Y Gastric Bypass and BioEnterics LAP-BAND® System surgery . The Laparoscopic approach is the least traumatic and recovery time is a lot less. These procedures are unique tool that can help you achieve and maintain significant weight loss, improve your health, and enhance your quality of life. Can I Afford Weight Loss Surgery? Tax Refunds for Your Bariatric Surgery Do I Qualify for Weight Loss Surgery? Emotional Readiness and Weight Loss Surgery Read more about Surgical Weight Control . SPIDER® Surgical System Learn about Bariatric Surgery and Age . Read about the Risks and Possible Complications of Weight Loss Surgery . Learn about Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery Recovery Time . Last Minute Reminders before Weight Loss Surgery LAP-BAND® System The lap band system is an inflatable silicone band that is placed laparoscopically around the upper portion of the stomach, creating a small gastric pouch. This system limits the amount of food the stomach will hold at any time. The band is placed without cutting or stapling of the stomach and there is no intestinal re-routing to bypass normal digestion. With this minimally invasive surgery, patients generally experience reduced pain and scarring, a faster recovery period and it is adjustable and reversible. { Learn More about Lap Band Surgery } Gastric Bypass Surgery The most commonly performed gastric bypass surgery is the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass , in which staples are used to permanently close off part of the stomach to reduce the capacity of food a patient can consume at one time. Additionally, a Y-shaped piece of the upper intestine is attached to this small stomach pouch. As a result, food from the stomach bypasses the initial sections of the intestine, which would normally absorb calories and nutrients after eating. { Learn More about Gastric Bypass Surgery } What is a sleeve gastrectomy? Sleeve Gastrectomy is a type of restrictive weight loss operation. It reduces the amount of food you can eat by reducing the size of the stomach. A thin vertical sleeve, or narrow section of the stomach, is created by using a stapling device, removing the rest of the stomach. Populations of cells that may contribute in the stimulation of hunger are removed during this process. The remaining stomach "sleeve" is roughly the size of a small banana. This procedure limits the amount of food you can eat and helps you feel full sooner. It allows for normal digestion and absorption. Food consumed passes through the digestive tract in the usual order, allowing it to be fully absorbed in the body. The sleeve gastrectomy procedure The majority of weight loss sleeve gastrectomies performed today use a laparoscopic technique, which is considered minimally invasive. Laparoscopic surgery usually results in a shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, smaller scars, and less pain than open surgical procedures. With the Sleeve, there is no foreign object implanted within the body and no adjustments or "fills" are necessary.  Also, since there is no malabsorptive component to the operation, nutritional deficiencies are uncommon.  Weight loss from the Sleeve is similar to that of Gastric Banding, but is less than weight loss with Gastric Bypass. Contact Dr. Carson Liu Please Type Your Questions/Comments Here Type of Request Make Appointment Insurance Question Confidential Email Appointment Enter the code above here: * Home About Obesity Obesity: A Disease Effects of Obesity Obesity Questions BMI Calculator What is Diabesity™? Diabetes Control Procedures Surgery Options Do I Qualify for Weight Loss Surgery? Surgical Weight Control SPIDER® Surgical System Bariatric Surgery and Age Lap-Band® Info Requirements for Lap-Band Surgery What to Expect After Surgery Single-Incision Laparoscopic Surgery (SILS) LAP-BAND® Questions My Lap-Band® Journey Weight Loss Surgery Medical Considerations Questions About Lap-Band® Weight Loss Surgery Lifestyle Changes after LAP-BAND® Working With Your LAP-BAND® Surgeon Gastric Bypass Info Requirements for Surgery What to Expect Gastric Bypass Questions Lap-Band® vs. Gastric Bypass Realize Band Revisional Surgery ROSE Questions About ROSE StomaphyX™ Heartburn Relief Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery Recovery Time Emotional Readiness and Weight Loss Surgery Last Minute Reminders before Weight Loss Surgery Before & After Testimonials Post-op Patients Post-op Patients Post-Operative Care Support Groups Our Team Dr. Carson Liu Media Media Recent Articles Recent Videos Recent Radio Interviews Blog Surgery Financing Can I Afford Weight Loss Surgery? Weight Loss Financing Tax Refunds for Your Bariatric Surgery Contact Dr. Carson Liu Contact Us Map & Directions Testimonial Julie Are you obese? BMI Calculator. Carson D. Liu online at visit superdoctors.com "Through preventive weight loss surgery we could reverse or improve diabetes, hypertension, and joint disease." "LAP-BAND® weight loss surgery is the wave of the future. We are here to guide you to a happier, healthier life." "The LAP-BAND® procedure is very, very safe. The surgery is quick, minimally invasive and virtually painless." "We provide our patients with safe and effective weight loss surgery. We also offer quality post-op care." "Throughout his career as a weight loss surgeon, Dr. Carson Liu has performed over 2600 Bariatric Surgeries." "Obesity is a chronic disease. We provide information to help you know whether obesity surgery is right for you." "Dr. Liu makes a difference in the lives of his patients through his commitment and care. - American Diabetes Association" "If you are obese and have failed at numerous diets, surgery may be your only realistic option for lasting weight loss." attend a free seminar Are you interested in lasting weight loss? Lap Band Weight Loss Surgery | Contact us | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Gastric Bypass Surgery Bariatric Surgery Disclaimer: Los Angeles top ranked surgeon Dr. Carson Liu provides information about Lap Band Surgery , Gastric Bypass Surgery and other obesity surgery procedures for informational purposes only and is not to be taken as medical advice. If you are considering weight loss surgery in Los Angeles, Irvine, Santa Monica, Culver City or anywhere in the LA area please contact our bariatric clinic today. c Dr. Carson Liu - Bariatric Surgery Marketed by LookingYourBest.com | Online Resourc