
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 07:33:11 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 07:33:11 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Diabetes and Pregnancy skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Diabetes and Pregnancy Follow the links below to find information on gestational diabetes, as well as pre-existing diabetic conditions that may have an effect on pregnancy. Reviewed September 2011 Printer friendly page 27 Resources Found Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Title: Diabetes in pregnancy Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: Most of the information in this topic is about gestational diabetes, which is diabetes that develops during pregnancy. Date: Jan 2012 Title: Diabetes in pregnancy Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: Most of the information in this topic is about gestational diabetes, which is diabetes that develops during pregnancy. Date: Jan 2012 Title: Gestational diabetes - diabetes that begins during pregnancy Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: Everyone needs a hormone called insulin to move glucose from their blood into cells and to control blood glucose levels. Date: Oct 2011 Title: Preparing for pregnancy - Diabetes Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: If you have diabetes (either type 1 or type 2) you will need to be very careful to maintain healthy blood sugar levels when you are trying to get pregnant. Date: Sep 2011 Title: Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion versus multiple daily injections of insulin for pregnant women with diabetes Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: There is insufficient evidence on the effects of different ways of administering insulin for pregnant women with diabetes. Diabetes is a condition in which glucose (sugar) in the blood is too high because the body is resistant to the effects of insulin ... Date: Sep 2011 Title: Gestational diabetes mellitus Publisher: Virtual Medical Centre.com Description: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is is glucose intolerance that is first diagnosed during pregnancy (gestation). It is a temporary condition that usually disappears after pregnancy. However, for some women the condition becomes chronic. Without treatment, it may lead to significant health problems for a mother and her baby. Date: Apr 2011 Title: Diabetes - gestational Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Gestational diabetes occurs during pregnancy. When gestational diabetes is well controlled, the risks to the baby and mother are greatly reduced. Women are at greater risk of developing type 2 diabetes after experiencing gestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes is diagnosed using an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Date: Feb 2011 Title: Diabetes in pregnancy: its impact on Australian women and their babies Publisher: Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) Description: Diabetes is known to adversely affect women and their babies during pregnancy, labour and delivery. This differs by maternal diabetes status and has not been described at the national level before. This report explores these differences in Australian mothers and their babies. Date: Dec 2010 Title: Preconception care for diabetic women to improve maternal and infant health Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Current guidelines in many countries including Australia, the United Kingdom and United States recommend preconception care of diabetic women. Pregnant women with type I or type II diabetes are at a greater risk of adverse outcomes in pregnancy such as ... Date: Oct 2010 Title: Pregnancy Publisher: Diabetes Australia - Vic (DA - Vic) Description: Pregnancy and pre-existing diabetes. Date: Oct 2010 Title: Gestational diabetes Publisher: Diabetes Australia - Vic (DA - Vic) Description: What is gestational diabetes and how it is managed. Date: Oct 2010 Title: Drugs for gestational diabetes Publisher: Australian Prescriber Description: Gestational diabetes is increasing in Australia. Appropriate screening, diagnosis and management is important, not only to improve perinatal and maternal outcomes, but also because it may help to decrease the incidence of type 2 diabetes in the future. Date: Oct 2010 Title: Gestational diabetes Publisher: The Jean Hailes Foundation for Women's Health Description: Gestational diabetes, along with type 2 diabetes, is on the rise in the western world - a direct result of lifestyle, diet and the modern technology designed to make life easier and more 'convenient'. Date: Sep 2010 Title: Oral anti-diabetic agents for women with pre-existing diabetes mellitus, impaired glucose tolerance or previous gestational diabetes mellitus Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Pregnant women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes are at a greater risk of adverse outcomes in pregnancy, such as miscarriage or large babies and preterm birth. Being pregnant can trigger diabetes in women with impaired glucose tolerance or can accelerate t... Date: Aug 2010 Title: Very little evidence from randomised trials about optimal blood sugar (glucose) targets for pregnant women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Women who have either type 1 or type 2 diabetes before they become pregnant have an increased risk of pregnancy loss, high birthweight babies and perinatal deaths. The metabolic disruptions to the fetus caused by the mother's high blood sugars and insul... Date: Jul 2010 Title: Screening for gestational diabetes and subsequent management for improving maternal and infant health Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a form of diabetes that can develop during pregnancy, usually toward the end of the second trimester. Having GDM increases the risk of complications during the rest of the pregnancy. Women with GDM are more likely ... Date: Jun 2010 Title: Diabetes and getting pregnant - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Your questions answered about how to ensure you have a safe pregnancy if you have diabetes. Date: Sep 2009 Title: Gestational diabetes: Q and A - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Gestational diabetes is a temporary form of diabetes that happens during pregnancy. Date: Sep 2009 Title: Treatments for gestational diabetes Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: The best way of identifying and treating women with abnormal blood glucose tests in pregnancy is not known. Raised blood glucose levels during pregnancy is known as gestational diabetes. This abnormality may be associated with bigger babies, more diffic... Date: Jul 2009 Title: Gestational diabetes mellitus in Australia, 2005-06 Publisher: Australian Institute of Health and Welfare Description: This is the first national report on the incidence of gestational diabetes mellitus among Australian women. The report uses data from the National Diabetes Services Scheme and the National Hospital Morbidity Database to determine the number of cases of GDM among Australian women of child-bearing age. Date: Dec 2008 Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Diabetes Pregnancy Complications Types of Diabetes © 2012 National Health Call Cen