<http://www.healthadel.com/?p=5103>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Asthma Attack Preventers and Relievers - Healthadel.com Healthadel.com Health Information Home About Contact Us Advertise Subscribe Asthma Attack Preventers and Relievers by Patrick Asthma is a chronic illness that is said to be increasing on a worldwide scale in both adults and children. If you or your child suffers from asthma you should know that there are two main types of asthma treatment: asthma preventers and asthma attack relievers. Both of these are available in a variety of devices known as inhalers. Although neither are asthma cures, they both help to control the disease and enable the sufferer to breathe more easily. Asthma Attack Preventers Asthma preventers are designed to reduce the chances of an asthma attack occurring. They work by reducing the swelling and inflammations experienced in the airways and are advised to be taken on a daily basis even if the sufferer is not experiencing any symptoms. The main ingredient in asthma prevents for adults are corticosteroids and due to the possible side effects only the lowest dose needed will be administered. Children will not be prescribed preventers of this kind, they instead will have non steroid based medicine. Asthma Attack Relievers Asthma relievers are for sufferers to take during an asthma attack or during a prolonged period of troubled breathing. They work by opening up the airways making it easier for the sufferer to breathe. As they do not reduce inflammation of the airways, asthma sufferers are often advised to take their asthma preventers at the same time as the relievers. Most asthma attack relievers will alleviate the symptoms of asthma almost instantly although some will be prescribed that have a longer lasting effect. Other Asthma Treatment Medication Most forms of asthma treatment medication comes in the form of an aerosol based inhaler however there are different forms of preventers of asthma attack medication. These include: • Steroid tablets – these are generally only prescribed to those whose asthma is really bad.  They will usually be prescribed in short doses and work to instantly calm down an inflamed airway. • Anti-inflammatory tablets – these are a relatively new asthma attack treatment but they have proven to be very effective for people who suffer from aspirin related asthma and brittle asthma. • Omalizumab – This comes in the form of an injection and is generally only used on those who have a persistent and severe form of allergic asthma. Asthma Attack Treatment for Children Due to the side effects that can be experienced when taking the steroid based treatments, children are more likely to be prescribed asthma treatment inhalers that contain nedocromil sodium and sodium cromoglycate. Although not as effective as the asthma treatment for adults they are much safer. The main ingredients in asthma attack relievers are terbutaline and salbutamol. Whilst these are generally safe for children, toddlers and babies under the age of two will be prescribed a different type of asthma treatment – ipratromium bromide. Natural Remedies for Asthma To avoid the harmful side effects that come with many forms of asthma treatment medication many people are now looking for natural treatments. This is particularly true in the case of children with some natural remedies for asthma even leading to a lower reliance on medication. Some home remedies to try include: • Red hot chilli peppers – Foods that are naturally hot, naturally open up the airways and work as an anti-inflammatory. • Salmon – Salmon and any fish rich in Omega 3 somehow seem to help the lungs react better to irritants.  Some people have also claimed that eating foods rich in Omega 3 can prevent a person from getting asthma in the first place.  Researchers have also shown that asthma sufferers who eat salmon on a regular basis are 50% less likely to have an asthma attack than those who don’t. • Yoghurt – Vitamin B12 which is found in yoghurt is proven to alleviate asthma symptoms and can even prevent an asthma attack. • Orange Juice – and other foods rich in Vitamin C can decrease the wheezing suffered by asthma sufferers by up to 30%. • Onions – Cooked onions are said to combat the irritants which can cause asthma attacks. • Coffee – the caffeine found in regular coffee is said to control and prevent asthma attacks due to its bronchodilating effects. Three cups of coffee a day is enough to alleviate asthma symptoms but it should not be given to children. Aside from the above, eliminating other asthma attack causes , like the pets of your house, mold and any other irritant can also help to prevent an asthma attack. Before trying any of the treatments mentioned in this article you are recommended to speak to your doctor first. Tagged as: Asthma , Children , Natural , Prevention , Remedies , Treatment Cancel reply Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: Getting Rid of Stretch Marks Next post: You Can Diet at Work! Recent Posts Facts About Ecstasy The Drug Are Electronic Cigarettes Safe? Best Weight Loss Supplements for Women Fitness Tips for Seniors Do Weight Loss Pills Work? Categories Abuse Alternative Therapies Babies Healthcare Dental and Oral Healthcare Diet Drug Side Effects Excercise Financial Illnesses And Conditions Injuries Lifestyle Medical Profession Pregnancy And Childcare Procedures Sexual Health Skin Care Sleeping Disorders Substance Abuse Treatments Popular Comments Jessica on Knock Knees Correction in Adults . Torie on 9 Signs of Diabetes . Austin on How To Detox Your Body . Lilith on What is The Herpes Virus ? Rae on What Happens To Your Body When Smoking Marijuana ? Sandra on The History of Medical Negligence © 2007 - 2012 Healthadel.com. Health Adel Medical Health Information Resource. The information within Healthadel.com should in no way take place of professional medical advice. This website contains information for educational purposes and you should always consult a doctor about anything medical related. All rights reserved.
Healthad