Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

OurHealthNetwork.com - Sports Orthotics: Basketball 0 items | $0.00 | View Cart Home > Medical Products Store > Medical Products Store Find Products: Select a Body Part Foot Knee Arm/Hand Cosmetic Dermatology Back/Spine Shoulder Physical Therapy General Medical Choose How to Search By Manufacturer Pick Your Condition SELECT * FROM STORE_DEPARTMENTS WHERE PARENT_ID = NULL AND IS_INACTIVE IS NULL ORDER BY LFT Search by Keyword: Medical Products Store Sports Orthotics: Basketball Running, frequent sudden stops, quick changes in direction, and jumping apply intense and abnormal weight and pressure to the balls of the feet, the arches, and especially the ankles. Our custom-made sports orthotics for basketball are designed to comfortably maintain the feet in a neutral (or normal) position, allowing them to meet these forces and pressures with the greatest support and shock absorbency possible; thus fatigue and pain are reduced. To "keep you in the game," and pain free, we have designed an orthotic which takes the abnormal weight and pressure incurred, and gently re-distributes it evenly across the entire foot. This will reduce foot pain and fatigue, and help to prevent injuries. How Our Orthotics Work: The advanced technology we employ enables our orthotics to gently maintain the heel in its neutral position, stabilizing the rear foot and ankle and helping to prevent ankle sprains, Achilles Tendonitis, shin splints, and inflammation of the tendons that run down the front of the ankle into the foot. Our custom-made sports orthotics also provide comfortable, semi-flexible support to the arch by "giving" to absorb the shock of each step, rather than our foot absorbing the shock (our orthotics act in the same way a shock absorber does on an automobile). When your weight is removed from the orthotic, the arch returns to its original height since the material we use has a built-in "memory." This action will help to prevent plantar fasciitis, heel spurs, arch pain, and lower back pain. Increase Your Endurance and Efficiency: OurFootDoctor.com's custom-made sports orthotics can increase your endurance and efficiency, and help to prevent injuries to the feet, ankles, shins, knees, hips, and lower back. By providing increased padding and support for the balls of the feet using materials that mimic the action of our own fatty pads, these orthotics will not only provide comfort, but will also help to prevent stress fractures, joint pain, and callus pain. I'm Ready To Order A set of custom-made sports orthotics for basketball, designed under the supervision of a board certified podiatrist, is just $189.90. A foam impression kit will be shipped to you for $44.95. When you order now, you will be billed just $44.95 for the foam impression kit. That amount will apply directly toward the purchase of your custom-made sports orthotics. When you return your impression kit along with your self-examination form, you'll be asked to pay the remaining $144.95 with a check or credit card. Product Number: 90006 Price: $44.95 / per kit Quantity: Recommend to a Friend | Newsletter Sign Up | Ask Our Doctor | Medical Conditions | Medical Products Store | Medical Definitions | About Us | Contact Us | Testimonials | Policies © 2006 OurH