<http://www.whitehouse.gov/ the_press_office/ Mexico_ City_Policy_ and_Assistance_for_Voluntary_
Population_ Planning/>, accessed Jan. 28, 2009.
2. The White House, Statement released after the President rescinds "Mexico City Policy," <http://www. whitehouse.gov/ statement-released-after-the- president-
rescinds/>, accessed Jan. 28, 2009. MALE CIRCUMCISION AND
HPV PREVALENCE Young men who have been circumcised are less likely than those who have not to be infected with the human papillomavirus (HPV), according to a study of data from a male circumcision trial conducted in Orange Farm, South Africa. 1 Of the 3,274 uncircumcised men aged 18–24 recruited between February 2002 and July 2004, half were randomly assigned to the intervention group to be circumcised and half were assigned to the control group; urethral swab samples from 1,264 participants were collected at the 21-month follow-up visit and analyzed for HPV and gonorrhea. In univariate intention-to-treat analyses, HPV prevalence was lower for men in the intervention group than for those in the control group (15% vs. 22%), and the prevalence rate ratio was 0.66, suggesting that circumcision is negatively associated with HPV infection. Controlling for social, demographic and sexual behavior characteristics and HIV status did not significantly change the prevalence rate ratio (0.68). Similar analyses for gonorrhea found no difference between circumcised and uncircumcised men. Because the researchers did not test men's HPV status at baseline, they were not able to determine what proportions of circumcised and uncircumcised men became infected over the study period, only the proportions of the two groups with HPV at the 21-month endpoint. The authors remark, however, that given the sample randomization, the controlled analyses and the lack of difference in gonorrheal prevalence between the two groups, it is likely that the difference in HPV prevalence at 21 months was due to the protective effect of the circumcision intervention on HPV infection. 1. Auvert B et al., Effect of male circumcision on the prevalence of high-risk human papillomavirus in young men: results of a randomized controlled trial conducted in Orange Farm, South Africa, Journal of Infectious Diseases, 2009, 199(1):14–19. GENDER VIOLENCE OVERLOOKED 
BY AFRICAN GOVERNMENTS Sub-Saharan African governments are not appropriately acknowledging and addressing gender-based violence, according to a report released by USAID's Africa's Health in 2010 project. 1 The report, which reviewed Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) findings and national planning documents from Cameroon, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe, found that the prevalence of violence against 15–49-year-old women was high in all seven countries, ranging from about 30% to 60%. Between 70% and 80% of ever-
married women who had experienced gender-based violence reported their husband as the perpetrator; across countries, there were strong associations between violence and husband's controlling behavior and drunkenness. Although the topic of gender-based violence is included in most countries' planning documents, it is often not included in overall priorities. Furthermore, despite the richness of DHS data, the findings seem not to be used to inform policies and programs in the planning documents. The authors make recommendations for national governments, including the need to "acknowledge that domestic violence is a public health problem" that "needs to be officially recognized and addressed, via public policy and appropriate budget allocation." 1. Borwankar R, Diallo R and Sommerfelt AE, Gender-Based Violence in Sub-
Saharan Africa: A Review of Demographic and Health Survey Findings and Their Use in National Planning, 2008, <http:// africahealth2010.aed.org/PDF/GBV.pdf>, accessed Feb. 23, 2009. » table of contents » search the IPSRH archive » guidelines for authors © copyright 1996-2012 , Guttmacher Institute RSS :