Last-Modified: Wed, 28 Dec 2011 11:46:28 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Urinary incontinent, Types of Urinary Incontinence Causes Treatment: Health care tips Health care tips Urinary incontinent, Types of Urinary Incontinence Causes Treatment Failure in contraction of voluntary muscles of urinary bladder resulting in continuous urine flowing out of bladder is called as urinary incontinence. In easy terms urinary incontinence is loss of bladder control. Aged adults are more sufferers from urinary incontinence. Some adults also experience urinary Incontinence rarely. Stress urinary incontinence and Urge incontinence are the two main types of urinary incontinence. Leaking of urine and uncontrolled wetting of clothes is the main symptom of incontinent bladder. Incontinent bladder has become a embarrassing problem in most of old ages. Stress urinary incontinence occurs at the time of laughing, sneezing, coughing, etc. Stress incontinence is usually temporary and is not recognized easily and is also not a major medical disorder. Retraining of urethral muscles is the main treatment option for urinary incontinence due to stress. Training of pelvic floor muscles by the Physical Therapist is a effective treatment for Stress urinary incontinent. Urge incontinence is the sudden urge to urinate beyond the voluntary control of bladder muscles. The older adults or aged people experience urge incontinence commonly. Most of the women ignores this problem and seek medical help after the urinary incontinent becomes severe as they always have to go for toilet. Weakened urinary muscle is the main cause of incontinent bladder. Also a over active urinary bladder leads to incontinent bladder. When the bladder muscles or the muscles supports the bladder are weaken, the stress incontinent occurs during sneezing, coughing, laughing and other stressful activities. The overactive bladder induces a strong urge to urinate even though when urinary bladder is incompletely filled Damage of the nerves which supply urinary bladder also causes incontinent bladder. Prostate problems in males also causes urinary incontinent. Removal of the prostate gland in males lead to this type of incontinence some women’s experience urinary incontinent after childbirth or after menopause. Symptoms of urinary incontinent Minor leakage of urine continuously from the bladder, Dribbling of urine, Wetting of clothes, which irritates more. In some incontinent, both loss of stools and urine occurs. Episodes of strong urinary urgency are the symptoms of urinary  incontinent. Types of urinary incontinence include Stress incontinence : Loss of urine when pressure is exerted on urinary bladder. Stress on body is exerted during coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting some weight, etc. psychological stress is not related to this stress incontinent but the physical stress is the main cause. Stress incontinent occurs due to weakened sphincter muscle at the neck of urinary bladder. Stress incontinent is experienced more when urinary bladder is full. Stress incontinent is the common type of incontinent bladder, and is commonly seen in women. Physical changes women due to pregnancy, childbirth and menopause leads to stress incontinent. Mixed incontinence : when the person have symptoms of two or more type of urinary incontinence such as stress incontinent and urge incontinence together is called as mixed incontinence. Functional incontinence : Many oldage people will have uncontrolled bladder, especially when stays on bed for long time with a chronic diseases. A physical or mental impairment such as partial paralysis, joint disability, makes oldage people unable to get up from bed and to void. This makes them to void on the bed itself ia called as functional incontinence. Urge incontinence : This is a sudden, intense urge to urinate, followed by an involuntary loss of urine. Your bladder muscle contracts and may give you a warning of only a few seconds to a minute to reach a toilet. With urge incontinence, you may also need to urinate often. The need to urinate may even wake you up several times a night. Some people with urge incontinence have a strong desire to urinate when they hear water running or after they drink only a small amount of liquid. Simply going from sitting to standing may even cause you to leak urine. Urge incontinence may be caused by a urinary tract infection or by anything that irritates the bladder. It can also be caused by bowel problems or damage to the nervous system associated with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, stroke or injury. In urge incontinence, the bladder is said to be “overactive” —The bladder is contracting even when your bladder isn’t full. In fact, urge incontinence is often called an overactive bladder. Overflow incontinence : If you frequently or constantly dribble urine, you may have overflow incontinence. This is an inability to empty your bladder, leading to overflow. With overflow incontinence, sometimes you may feel as if you never completely empty your bladder. When you try to urinate, you may produce only a weak stream of urine. This type of incontinence is common in people with a damaged bladder or blocked urethra and in men with prostate gland problems. Nerve damage from diabetes also can lead to overflow incontinence. Some medications can cause or increase the risk of developing overflow incontinence. Gross total incontinence : This term is sometimes used to describe continuous leaking of urine, day and night, or periodic large volumes of urine and uncontrollable leaking. The bladder has no storage capacity. Some people have this type of incontinence because they were born with an anatomical defect. It can be caused by a spinal cord injury or by injury to the urinary system from surgery. An abnormal opening (fistula) between the bladder and an adjacent structure, such as the birth canal, also may cause this type of high-grade urinary incontinence. Treatment of urinary incontinent includes Treatment of  urinary incontinence is given on the nature of cause, and need of  medical help to correct the problem. Exercises to strengthen the  bladder muscles, Medications to reduce the action of over active  urinary bladder. Don’t let urinary incontinent to trouble  your daily activities and never hesitate to seek a medical help. In many  situations, some urinary incontinent can be cured completely not some  can be controlled. When urinary incontinent is not able to eliminate,  some medical devices helps to relieve the problem of incontinent. No Comments No comments yet. Leave a comment *Name *Email (not published) Recent Posts DNA, Chromosomes, Genes, what is DNA Test ? Functions, Genetics… Sciatica Causes Signs Symptoms, Treament of Sciatica nerve pain Pleural effusion, Causes Symptoms Treatment, Complications, Thoracentesis Glaucoma eye disorder Types Causes Symptoms, Treatment of Glaucoma Vitamin C Functions, Deficiency disorders, Sources of Vitamin C, RDA, High Dosage Recent Comments deepa on Stroke Causes Symptoms, What causes stroke, paralysis mukurwe on Abortion Causes, Prevention, Treatment of Spontaneous Abortion Isabellah Evelyn on Abortion Causes, Prevention, Treatment of Spontaneous Abortion hildayesupatham on Dry cough Treatment, Causes of Dry cough, Home remedies nikkie alipio on Tonsillitis causes Symptoms, Tonsillitis