Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aloe vera Aloe vera Aloe vera is a healing plant used to treat sunburns ,
minor burns, scrapes, ulcers, arthritis and 
constipation, making it a virtual necessity for 
minor emergencies. Aloe vera has healing, soothing and cleansing
properties making it an ideal addition to any 
medicine cabinet. It may be used internally
or externally to utilize the plant's unique healing
properties. The juice, leaf or gel extracted from the aloe
vera plant can be used to treat a variety of skin
conditions or to soothe the intestinal system.
Aloe vera provides anti-inflammatory and  pain-relieving
substances that are especially beneficial for treating
the gastrointestinal tract and skin inflammations. Aloe vera gel may be used to relieve minor skin
irritations, including scrapes, burns, insect bites, sunburns ,
diaper rash, itching and poison ivy. Aloe vera gel 
spreads evenly for faster absorption and penetration. Aloe vera supplies the body with vitamins, minerals
and 18 amino acids. It also contains B vitamins 1, 2,
and 6, vitamin C ,
niacinamide, choline and the minerals calcium, iron,
lecithin, magnesium, manganese, potassium, sodium
and zinc. Aloe Vera Avocado Freesia Spring Rain Rosewater Goldleaf & Hydrangea Filigree Island Thymes Herbal Metaphors Crab-Apple Fieldberries Clementine-Lavender Elixir of Love No. 1 Almond and Aloe Cucumber & Elder Flower Sandalwood Goat's Milk & Honey Berry Buttons Cherish Midnight Moon Tahitian Vanilla Beauty Guides Personal Beauty Care & Hygiene Natural & Herbal Guides The Herb Quarterly 1001 Beauty Secrets Search • Contact Us • Articles • Home Alternative Medicine • Beauty • Nutrition • Fitness Note: The
information, formulas, herbs, and recipes contained within 
this web site are not to be considered substitutes for proper
medical care. As with any other medicine or remedy, if you 
are sick, you should consult a physician to find out if these
alternatives are right for you. 1001 Beauty Secrets does not make
any medical claims nor warranties regarding the use of the 
products listed on this site. These remedies may not be for
everyone, and like any other type of remedy may have side
effects. You should consult your physician before taking any
medicatio