Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Delta Dental - Members - Your Healthy Teeth - Healthy Teeth Articles Benefits Administrators Members About Your Dental Plan Getting the Most From Your Dental Plan Member Services Your Healthy Teeth Translation Services Frequently Asked Questions Forms Report Fraud Contact Us Login for Online Services Brokers Dentists Find a Dentist About Us Dental Plans News Focus on Prevention Fluoride Your Oral Health Career Opportunities Small Business Login for Online Services Current Location: Delta Dental > Members > Your Healthy Teeth > Healthy Teeth Articles Members Your Healthy Teeth - Healthy Teeth Articles Test Your Dental IQ Are you surprised at the amount of   sugar in some of your favorite foods? Did you know that sugar plays a   harmful role in tooth decay? Sugar when combined with bacterial plaque forms   acids which weaken the enamel (the hard outside covering of your teeth). The   acids dissolve the minerals that make your tooth enamel hard. When the surface   of the enamel becomes porous—tiny holes appear. After a while, repeated acid   attacks cause the tiny holes in the enamel to get bigger until one large hole   appears. This is a cavity. So you can see why it is so important to visit your   dentist for regular checkups so that the plaque you can't get with your   toothbrush can be removed. What is Plaque? Your mouth   is a busy place. Bacteria are constantly on the move on your teeth. Having   bacteria in your mouth is a normal thing, however, certain types can attach   themselves to the enamel that covers your teeth. These bacteria form together to   create a sticky film, called plaque. When you don't clean your teeth after   eating, plaque bacteria use sugar as a source of energy. The bacteria convert   the sugar into harmful acids that attack tooth enamel. Repeated attacks may   cause the enamel to break down, resulting in cavities. How do sealants help prevent   decay? The first step in maintaining a healthy mouth is preventing   tooth decay, and sealants can offer excellent protection against cavities. A   sealant is a plastic material that is usually applied to the chewing surfaces of   the back teeth. This plastic resin bonds into the depressions and grooves   (called pits and fissures) of the chewing surfaces of back teeth. The sealant   then acts as a barrier, protecting these vulnerable areas by "sealing out"   plaque and food. Who would benefit the most from   sealants? Children are excellent candidates for sealants as decay   usually begins early in life. And sealants are an available benefit for children   through age 15 (a co-payment may apply). The key here is to stop acid from   attacking the enamel and causing tooth decay. By having sealants applied to your   childrens' teeth, you can help protect them against cavities. Visit your dentist today and ask if   sealants can be part of your child's preventive program. Back to Top Back to Main Articles Page Back   to Your Healthy Teeth Main Page © Copyright |