
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Set-Cookie: 240plan=R3762665158; path=/; expires=Thu, 15-Mar-2012 06:09:04 GMT
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 18:06:10 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.X (OVH)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

What To Do If Your Child Has Cradle Cap? Get Optiderma delivered by email: skin health issues A-Z learn about your skin babies & skin rashes pregnancy & skin women & delicate issues herbal remedies skin nutrients essential oils homeopathic remedies other natural therapies optimum skin health skin cleanse anti-inflammatory diet anti-inflammatory recipes chemical ingredients skin care recipes skin health articles interviews with experts philosophy about us newsletter contact us advertise Optiderma > they talk about it > interviews with experts > "what to do if your child has cradle cap?" skin health articles interviews with experts Athlete's foot Birthmarks Cold sores Cradle Cap Eczema Fungus Psoriasis Sunburn Urticaria Warts More Skin Issues How long for a cut to heal? How to heal open wounds faster Is coconut milk healthy? What to do when a scrape oozes What does fish oil do for the body? What causes strawberry birthmarks in infants?... Bug Bites That Blister: What to do? Why do fever blisters hurt? Long-term use of the birth control pill can cause a deficiency of vitamin C, B, magnesium, zinc, and friendly bacteria. What to Do If Your Child Has Cradle Cap? Interview with Doctor Pina LoGiudice , ND, LAc, Licensed Acupuncturist. Posted on Jun 02, 2011 by Joséphine Beck Are you worried about scaly patches on your baby's scalp? Read what Naturopathic Doctor Pina LoGiudice recommends to parents whose infant has cradle cap . Optiderma: Why do babies get cradle cap? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: We are not really sure. Cradle cap also known as seborrheic dermatitis affects the scalp of infants.  Seborrhea is a very common inflammatory condition of the skin that creates flaky, white to yellow scales that is due to either a fungal infection or overproduction of the oil glands. Optiderma: Is cradle cap harmless or can it also be a sign of a most significant medical problem? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: In infants, it is usually a harmless condition that is not associated with any significant medical problem. However, if the condition worsens  or if the baby is not thriving medical attention is necessary. Optiderma: What should parents do at the first sign of cradle cap? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: Cradle cap can develop from birth to the first three months of life.  The first thing to do is not panic.  Since it is usually a self resolving condition, you can leave it alone or if you are not sure what it is, do go to your local pediatrician for an assessment. Optiderma: What kind of shampoo, lotion or cream is best to reduce cradle cap? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: As often the problem resolves itself, aggressive treatment is not necessary.  However, I usually recommend to parents that after the baby's warm bath you can apply coconut oil or olive oil to the scalp to moisten and further soften the  scales.  Then with a very fine toothed comb with gentle strokes, you can brush against the scales to remove them or use a wet wash cloth and gently rub the baby's scalp in circles. Optiderma: Are you against the use of hydrocortisone cream to treat cradle cap? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: I find that it is usually not necessary. Optiderma: Are there any effective homeopathic remedies you recommend? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: I usually do not use homeopathy for cradle cap, but not to say it would not be beneficial. If you can get the specific symptoms on the child, homeopathy does work wonders. Optiderma: Would you have any other advice when dealing with cradle cap? Dr. Pina LoGiudice: If you are finding that the olive oil/coconut oil is not working, you can also shampoo the scalp using a tea tree oil shampoo while giving an oral probiotic since the cradle cap may have a fungal component. About Pina LoGiudice Dr. Pina LoGiudice graduated from Bastyr University, the leading accredited university for science-based natural medicine. She completed five years of training in naturopathic medicine and acupuncture. She received her Bachelor’s degree from the University of Rochester. She is a member of the Holistic Moms Association, Holistic Pediatric Association, American Association for Naturopathic Physicians, Physicians for Social Responsibility and is a Diplomat in Acupuncture. She is a past board member, secretary and Vice-President of the New York Association of Naturopathic Physicians. Dr. Pina LoGiudice is licensed as an acupuncturist in the State of New York, and is considered a naturopathic physician in the State of Washington, where naturopathic physicians are licensed to practice medicine. Dr. LoGiudice enjoys working with various conditions - and especially enjoys helping each woman prepare her body for pregnancy and works extensively with natural and Chinese medicines for children’s best health. She is a co-author in the third edition of the Textbook of Natural Medicine. She is on the adjunctive faculty staff at the Natural Gourmet Institute for Food and Health in Manhattan and has taught at New York University. She has recently been published in the Journal of Complementary and Integrative Medicine, writing about the benefits of garlic for children’s health. She has lectured nationally at the Integrative Health Symposium (formerly CAM Expo) in both New York City and Los Angeles. Considered a natural medicine expert, Dr. LoGiudice has been asked to appear on national (the Hallmark Channel) and local television (News12 Long Island), radio (on the air with Dr. Fratellone, 1600AM), and national media (SustainLane). Dr. Pina also writes articles about natural health for Earth Mama Angel Baby, a company that formulates natural products for pregnancy and early motherhood. For more information, visit her website: http://www.innersourcehealth.com/ Other useful links on cradle cap Natural Remedies for Cradle Cap : learn about nutrition, homeopathic remedies, and other home remedies to get rid of cradle cap Cradle Cap Oil Remedy : a recipe with almond and tea tree oil Oleo Calcareous Liniment for Baby Skin Rashes widely recommended by French maternity hospitals! Comments from the community (0) No comment posted yet, be the first...! Add your comment: pseudo: comment: Enter the words below: ( What's this? ) We ask you to enter these words to prevent bots from cluttering Optiderma.com with spam. You either have JavaScript turned off, or have blocked JavaScript with a browser add-on. Please turn on JavaScript, or unblock recaptcha.net in order to use this form. I can't read this Other interviews in the same category: Managing Eczema in Children Are you having limited success treating your child's eczema? Naturopath Rachel Boon has advice to give you! Can Acupuncture Improve Skin Health? Acupuncture is not only effective as a beauty treatment, it can help with many other skin conditions. Interview with Fiona Jennings. Can Proper Nutrition Help Teenagers Get Rid of Acne? Almost every teen gets acne at some point. This interview answers common questions about teenage acne and nutrition. How to Look Younger Naturally? Help your look stay young and your skin be healthy! Pia Huber unveils how to take good care of skin without using artificial intervention. How to Use Essential Oils to Heal a Cut Essential oils can assist in the treatment of cuts and wounds. Learn how to promote natural healing with Danny O'Rawe, N.D. Why Change To a Natural Living Lifestyle? Larry Cook, Author of The Beginner\'s Guide to Natural Living, explains how Natural Living can help clear your skin. How Can Naturopathic Medicine Help to Treat Eczema? Discover what can be done on a daily basis to help with eczema with Naturopathic Doctor Candice Esposito. Is Organic Cotton Better for Baby Skin? Does it make a difference to buy organic certified tee-shirts for your child? Learn about the danger of some commonly used substances... How Can Naturopathic Medicine Help With Hives? \"Without identifying the cause you are mainly treating the symptoms and hives will never go away.\" Learn more with Dr Wiancek. Skin Picking: Is There Any Effective Therapy? Skin picking, also known as Dermatillomania or CSP (compulsive skin picking) is a disorder that can be treated. Interview with Dr. Segal. Treating Acne with Acupuncture Find out how acupuncture can be used to treat acne in this interview with Delphine Baumer, Registered Acupuncturist. Is Psoriasis Curable? According to the majority of people in the health industry, psoriasis is incurable. But is this really true? Let\'s ask Dr. Erikson, Doctor of TCM. Body Butter and Pumpkin Patch Soap for Eczema Rocky Mountain Soap Company developed two products for eczema sufferers. What\'s so special about this eczema duo? Psychological Kinesiology: can positive thinking heal our skin? Let’s learn how Psychological Kinesiology works and how it could help people who suffer from a chronic skin condition. Which antioxidants should you include in your diet? Antioxidants in foods have become a bit of a trend. Which antioxidants are best for your skin? Answers with Nutrition Expert Sophia Medinski. Probiotics: can friendly bacteria improve skin health? Get a better understanding of how probiotics work on the skin level. Interview with Jo Ann Hattner, author of \'Gut Insight\'. How does stress affect skin and what can you do about it? Learn with Lisa Jones why stress and skin are closely linked and how to cope with it with a stress management diet. Sun & skin damage: is nutrition important in sun protection? We usually think of sunscreen to save our skin from sun damage. What about nutrition? What foods are good sun protectors? Skin manifestations of nutrient deficiencies Is there a connection between skin conditions and nutrient deficiencies? Interview with Registered Dietitian Yulia Brockdorf. Does Diet Have Any Effect On Psoriasis? There is little scientific research on psoriasis and diet, but it is believed diet impacts psoriasis. Explanation with Erin Palinski. How do you treat a skin rash, such as eczema, with herbs? In this interview, Herbologist Carmen Bell gives advice on which herbal remedies to use to help heal eczema. Cosmetic Acupuncture: an effective treatment to reduce wrinkles? How does cosmetic acupuncture work to reduce signs of aging? Is it a safe and effective? Find answers in this interview with Nancy Skin remedies: can homeopathic remedies treat skin conditions? Dr. Meyre is a Naturopathic Doctor who works as a consultant for Herbasante, a natural health products company in Montreal. Treating skin conditions with naturopathy Dr. Keyes’ naturopathic practice focuses on many health conditions including skin conditions, such as eczema, psoriasis, or acne. Back to interviews index... Read our articles... SHARE this page! If you wish to share this page with more than one person, simply separate e-mail addresses using a coma. Your email address: Your friend's email address: Message for your friend (optional): Security question: ADVERTISE on Optiderma.com... The information provided on Optiderma.com is for educational and informational purposes only and should not be used as a substitute for the advice of an appropriately qualified practitioner. Skin conditions Skin conditions A-Z Your skin health Babies & skin health Pregnancy & skin health Women & skin health Natural remedies Herbal remedies Skin nutrients Homeopathy Essential oils Other therapies Healthy Skin Tips Optimum skin health Healing skin cleanse Anti-inflammatory diet How to avoid chemicals Anti-inflammatory recipes Skin care recipes They talk about it Skin health articles Interviews with experts Resources References About Optiderma About Optiderma Advertise Any questions? Partners Optiderma Links Sitemap Optiderma : skin remedies & healthy tips to help people find natural advice for their skin problem. Copyright 2008-2012 Optiderma - Some rights reserved. This work is under a Creative Commons Attribution Licence .
						