Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 00:47:41 GMT
X-Varnish: 3496338774
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Swanson Health Products - Daily Tips: D-Mannose Makes E Coli Happy Swanson Health Products - Daily Tips You'll learn how to start a vitamin and supplement regimen, improve your current wellness program, and discover natural solutions, including cutting-edge anti-aging hints, for your everyday health needs. Start off each morning with insightful information on men's, women's, and children's health--plus helpful health tips for your pets. You'll find our daily health tips, just like Swanson Health Products, are about much more than just how discount vitamins and supplements can support a healthy lifestyle! Home Archives Subscribe « Sea Vegetables Add Flavor and Nutrients | Main | How to Look for Organic Carpet Cleaners » April 07, 2009 D-Mannose Makes E Coli Happy Like most organic compounds ending with “ose,” d-mannose is a form of sugar. This sugar is a bit different from others, however, in that it never enters the intestinal tract for the body to break down the sugar. Once the sugar reaches the stomach, it enters the bloodstream. The kidneys then will filter the d-mannose from the body. One benefit of d-mannose for good urinary tract health is that it forms an interesting molecular compound that E Coli bacteria really like. These bacteria, which are the cause of the majority of urinary tract infections, cling to the d-mannose rather than to the bladder wall. The bacteria and sugar compound then leaves the body with the rest of your waste, helping to prevent a urinary tract infection. D-mannose is available naturally in foods such as cranberries. D-mannose also comes in pill or powder form for people who need an extra boost of this sugar. Posted at 08:00 AM in Women's Health | Permalink Technorati Tags : cranberries , D-mannose , intestinal tract , sugar , swanson vitamins , urinary tract health TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83453919869e201156f94c722970b Listed below are links to weblogs that reference D-Mannose Makes E Coli Happy : Comments You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the comment feed for this post. Verify your Comment Previewing your Comment Posted by: | This is only a preview. Your comment has not yet been posted. Your comment could not be posted. Error type: Your comment has been saved. Comments are moderated and will not appear until approved by the author. Post another comment The letters and numbers you entered did not match the image. Please try again. As a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below. This prevents automated programs from posting comments. Having trouble reading this image? View an alternate. Post a comment Comments are moderated, and will not appear until the author has approved them. Comment below or sign in with TypePad Facebook Twitter and more... You are currently signed in as (nobody) . Sign Out (URLs automatically linked.) Your Information (Name and email address are required. Email address will not be displayed with the comment.) Name is required to post a comment Please enter a valid email address Invalid URL Name: Email address: URL: Comment: Categories Anti-Aging Aromatherapy Ayurvedic Herbs Bone Health Cardiovascular Health Children's Health Circulatory Health Cleansing and Detoxifying Colon Health Digestive Health Emotional Health Energy and Fitness Essential Fatty Acids First Aid Going Green Green Cleaning Hair, Skin and Nails Healthy Foods Immune Support Joint Health Memory and Brain Health Men's Health Oral Health Organic Food Overall Health & Wellness Pet Health Respiratory Health Seasonal Wellness Sleep Stress Relief Supplements for Beginners Urinary Tract Health Vision Health Weight Loss Women's Health Subscribe to this blog's feed Swanson Homepage Ubiquinol CoQ10 Health Library OnSaleNow! Swanson Outlet Mall Abou