
Chapter V - Urinary System Member Information Home JOIN NOW! Login US Directory International Members Search Members Contact Members Case Studies/Testimonials Get Connected Contact Us Reading/Career Useful Links Articles News Career/Jobs Search by Category Medical Transcription Medical Transcription Course Medical Transcription Job Online MT Courses Home Login Register Search by Zip Search by Category US Directory Contact Members Testimonials Online MTC Chicago , IL 60060 Home Medical Lectures Blood System Lymphatic and Immune system Musculoskeletal System Skin & Appendages Ophthalmology Otorhinolaryngology Endocrine Glands List of Terms associated with Diabetes Cancer Medicine All Diagnostic Tests Obstetric Ultrasound Scan Pulmonary Function Test & Spirometry Radiology Pharmacology & Drug Classifications Body movements and Planes Miscellaneous Breast Human Anatomy Digestive System Urinary System Female Reproductive System Male Reproduction System Nervous System Cardiovascular System Course 1 Grammar Guidelines ABBREVIATIONS ACRONYMS AND INITIALISM ADDRESS GUIDELINES AMPERSAND APGAR SCORE CANCER CLASSIFICATION AND GUIDELINES CAPITALIZATION GUIDELINES DECIMALS Drug Abbreviations Drug Terminology EPONYM USAGE FRACTIONS GUIDELINES WITH BUILDING GUIDELINES WITH AGES BLOOD COUNTS Guidelines with Blood Pressure Guidelines with Dates Guidelines with Proper names SI UNITS VIRGULE Diabetes Mellitus Format for Letters Geographic Names & Proper Names Genetic Terminology Transcribing Globulins & Immunoglobulins Guidelines for transcribing numbers Obstetrics Terminology Transcribing suture Transcribing percentages English Usage Occupation Index Medical Prescription? Some English Prefixes and Suffixes Frequently Used Pleural Forms PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES Medicine Specialties and Specialists Combining Forms Diagnostic Tests CAT Scan Positron Emission Tomography Magnetic Resonance Imaging Ultrasound X-ray MUGA scan Endoscopy Esophagogastroduodenoscopy Colonoscopy Endoscopic Retrograde Bronchoscopy Cystoscopy Hysteroscopy Arthroscopy Laparoscopy Barium Tests Pap Smear Flow Cytometry Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP) KUB Mammography HIV Tests (AIDS Tests) Electroencephalography Echocardiography Electrocardiogram Holter Monitor Single Photon Emission Genetic Testing Tumor Marker Tests Blood Tests Complete Blood Count Liver Function Tests Radioimmunoassay Mantoux Test Heaf Test Gram Staining Renal Function Tests Creatinine Clearance PULMONARY FUNCTION TESTS Normal Laboratory Values Obstetric Ultrasound Scan Transcription resources & indexes All Orthopedic Tests Cancer Drug Index Clinical Sign Index Commonly Used Cancer Regimens List of Eponyms in Medicine Other Transcription Resources Surgical Instrument List US State Index US City Index-State Wise Cities in Alabama (AL) Cities in Alaska (AK) Cities in Arizona Cities in Arkansas (AR) Cities in California (CA) Cities in Colorado (CO) Cities in Connecticut (CT) Cities in Delaware (DE) Cities in Florida (FL) Cities in Georgia (GA) Cities in Hawaii (HI) Cities in Idaho (ID) Cities in Illinois (IL) Cities in Indiana (IL) Cities in Iowa (IA) Cities in Kansas (KS) Cities in Kentucky (KY) Cities in Louisiana (LA) Cities in Maine (ME) Cities in Maryland (MD) Cities in Massachusetts Cities in Michigan (MI) Cities in Minnesota (MN) Cities in Mississippi (MS) Cities in Missouri (MO) Cities in Montana (MT) Cities in Nebraska (NE) Cities in Nevada (NV) Cities in New Hampshire (NH) Cities in New Jersey (NJ) Cities in New Mexico (NM) Cities in New York (NY) Cities in North Carolina (NC) Cities in North Dakota (ND) Cities iin Ohio (OH) Cities in Oklahoma (OK) Cities in Oregon (OR) Cities in Pennsylvania (PA) Cities in Rhode Island (RI) Cities in South Carolina (SC) Cities in South Dakota (SD) Cities in Tennessee (TN) Cities in Texas (TX) Cities in Utah (UT) Cities in Vermont (VT) Cities in Virginia (VA) Cities in Washington (WA) Cities in West Virginia (WV) Cities in Wisconsin (WI) Cities in Wyoming (WY) Cities in Puerto Rico (PR) Abbreviations - A Abbreviations - B Abbreviations - C Abbreviations - D Abbreviations - E Abbreviations - F Abbreviations - G Abbreviations - H Abbreviations - I Abbreviations - J Abbreviations - K Abbreviations - L Abbreviations - N Abbreviations - O Abbreviations - P Abbreviations - Q Abbreviations - R Abbreviations - S Abbreviations - T Abbreviations - U Abbreviations - V Abbreviations - W Abbreviations - X Abbreviations - Y Abbreviations - Z Drug Index - A Drug Index - B Drug Index - C Drug Index - D Drug Index - E Drug Index - F Drug Index - G Drug Index - H Drug Index - I Drug Index - J Drug Index - K Drug Index - L Drug Index - M Drug Index - N Drug Index - O Drug Index - P Drug Index - Q Drug Index - R Drug Index - S Drug Index - T Drug Index - U Drug Index - V Drug Index - W Drug Index - X Drug Index - Y Drug Index - Z Hospital Directory - A Hospital Directory - B Hospital Directory - C Hospital Directory - D Hospital Directory - E Hospital Directory - F Hospital Directory - G Hospital Directory - H Hospital Directory - I Hospital Directory - J Hospital Directory - K Hospital Directory - L Hospital Directory - M Hospital Directory - N Hospital Directory - O Hospital Directory - P Hospital Directory - Q Hospital Directory - R Hospital Directory - S Hospital Directory - T Hospital Directory - U Hospital Directory - V Hospital Directory - W Hospital Directory - Y Hospital Directory - Z Chapter I - Human Anatomy Chapter II - Human Anatomy Chapter III - Human Anatomy Chapter IV - Human Anatomy Chapter V - Human Anatomy Chapter VI - Human_Anatomy Chapter VII - Human Anatomy Chapter I - Cardiovascular System Chapter II - Cardiovascular System Chapter III - Cardiovascular System Chapter IV - Cardiovascular System Chapter I - Dermatology Chapter II - Dermatology Chapter III - Dermatology Chapter IV - Dermatology Chapter I - Digestive System Chapter II - Digestive System Chapter III - Digestive System Chapter I - Respiratory System Chapter II - Respiratory System Chapter III - Respiratory System Chapter IV - Respiratory System Chapter V - Respiratory System Chapter I - Endocrine System Chapter II - Endocrine System Chapter III - Endocrine System Chapter IV - Endocrine System Chapter V - Endocrine System Chapter VI - Endocrine System Chapter VII - Endocrine System Chapter VIII - Endocrine System Chapter I - Urinary System Chapter II - Urinary System Chapter III - Urinary System Chapter IV - Urinary System Chapter V - Urinary System Chapter VI - Urinary System Chapter I - Male Reproduction Chapter II - Male Reproduction Chapter III - Male Reproduction Chapter IV - Male Reproduction Chapter V - Male Reproduction Chapter I - Gynecology Chapter II - Obstetrics Chapter III - Female Reproductive System Chapter IV - Female Reproduction Chapter V - Female Reproduction Chapter VI - Female Reproduction Chapter VII - Obstetric Procedures Chapter I - Bony Organization Chapter II - Vertebral Column Chapter IV - All about Muscles Chapter V - Fractures Chapter VI - Bone Pathology Chapter I - Eye Anatomy Chater II - Eye Physiology Chapter III - Visual Apparatus Chapter IV-Eye Pathology Chapter V - Common Eye Procedures Chapter VI - Eye Pharmacology Chapter I - ENT Anatomy Chapter II - ENT Examination Chapter III - ENT Pathology Chapter IV - ENT Procedures Chapter V - Common Terms Anemia & Types of Anemia Body Movements and Planes Blood Type Blood Transfusion and Substitutes Breast Anatomy and Pathology Cancer Drug Classification Infectious Diseases Suture materials Training Audio Files Section I - Audio Files Transcribed Documents Transcribed Documents-Section I Quality Assessment Standards The 206 Bones in Human Body Section II - Abbrevation Audio Files Section II - Transcribing Abbreviations Section III - Examination Audio Filies Section III - Transcribing Physical Exam Section IV - Audios for Drugs Section V - Specialty Audios Section V - Specialty Transcriptions Section IV - Transcription of Drugs Section VI - Specialty Audios Section VI - Specialty Transcriptions Useful Downloads Chapter III - Chest & Pelvis Section VII - Audio Section VII - Specialty Transcription Section VIII - Audio Section IX - Audio Dictation Section VIII - Specialty Transcription Section X - Audio Dictation Section IX - Transcribed Documents Section X - Transcribed Documents Appears in Categories Medical Transcription Course Online MT Course Chapter V - Urinary System Urinary Bladder The urinary bladder is the organ that collects urine excreted by the kidneys prior to disposal by urination. Urine enters the bladder via the ureters and exits via the urethra. Anatomy The urinary bladder is a hollow, muscular and distensible organ that sits on the pelvic floor (superior to the prostate in males). On its anterior border lies the pubic symphysis and, on it’s posterior border, the vagina (in females) and rectum (in males). The urinary bladder is normally capable of storing 1.1-1.3 liters of urine, but because it is made up of transitional epithelium it is able to stretch to volumes of even several liters. The ureters enter the bladder diagonally from its dorsolateral floor in an area called the trigone. The trigone is a triangular shaped area on the posteroinferior wall of the bladder. The urethra exits at the lowest point of the triangle of the trigone Detrusor muscle The detrusor muscle is a layer of the urinary bladder wall, made up of smooth muscle fibers arranged in inner and outer longitudinal layers and a middle circular layer. Contraction of the detrusor muscle causes the bladder to expel urine through the urethra. Problems with this muscle can lead to incontinence. Diseases of the bladder · Bladder sphincter dyssynergia, a condition where the sufferer cannot coordinate relaxation of the urethra sphincter with the contraction of the bladder muscles · Cystitis-Cystitis is the inflammation of the bladder. The condition primarily affects women, but can affect all age groups from either sex. There are several types of cystitis: Bacterial cystitis (most common) Interstitial cystitis, which is rare, difficult to diagnose, and does not involve foreign organisms Hemorrhagic cystitis The main cause of bacterial cystitis (or urinary tract infection) is coliform bacteria. These bacteria commonly occupy the bowel, and may become transferred to the urethra, then the bladder, and cause cystitis. An antibiotic is the initial treatment for bacterial cystitis and drinking lots of water. · Cystolithiasis · Cancer of the urinary bladder: bladder cancer · Hematuria-is the presence of blood in the urine. It is a sign of a large number of diseases of the kidneys and the urinary tract, ranging from trivial to lethal. Occasionally "hemoglobinuria" is used synonymously, although more precisely it only refers to hemoglobin in the urine. Red discoloration of the urine can have various causes: · Blood · Microscopic hematuria (small amounts of blood, can only be seen on urinalysis or light microscopy) · Macroscopic (or "frank" or "gross") hematuria · Hemoglobin (only the red pigment, not the red blood cells) · Other pigments (e.g. porphyrins in porphyria) · Interstitial cystitis-Interstitial cystitis (commonly abbreviated to "IC") is a urinary bladder disease of unknown cause characterized by pelvic and intense bladder pain, urinary frequency (as often as every 10 minutes), pain with sexual intercourse, and often pain with urination. It is not unusual for patients to experience nocturia and pain with sexual intercourse. IC is also known as painful bladder syndrome (PBS), particularly outside of the USA. · Ureterocele · Urinary bladder dysfunction · Urinary incontinence Urinary incontinence Urinary incontinence is the involuntary excretion of urine from one's body. It is often temporary, and it almost always results from an underlying medical condition. Women experience incontinence twice as often as men. Pregnancy and childbirth, menopause, and the structure of the female urinary tract account for this difference. But both women and men can become incontinent from neurologic injury, birth defects, strokes, multiple sclerosis, and physical problems associated with aging. While urinary incontinence affects older women more often than younger women. Incontinence is treatable and often curable at all ages. Types of incontinence Stress incontinence Stress incontinence is incontinence that is caused by actions such as coughing, laughing, sneezing, exercising or other movements that increase intraabdominal pressure and thus increase pressure on the bladder. Physical changes resulting from pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause often cause stress incontinence. It is the most common form of incontinence in women and is treatable. Urge incontinence Urge incontinence is involuntary loss of urine occurring for no apparent reason while suddenly feeling the need or urge to urinate. The most common cause of urge incontinence is inappropriate bladder contractions. Medical professionals describe such a bladder as "unstable," "spastic," or "overactive." It may also be called "reflex incontinence" if it results from overactive nerves controlling the bladder. Involuntary actions of bladder muscles can occur because of damage to the nerves of the bladder, to the nervous system (spinal cord and brain), or to the muscles themselves. Multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, and injury--including injury that occurs during surgery--all can harm bladder nerves or muscles. Functional incontinence People with functional incontinence may have problems thinking, moving, or communicating that prevent them from reaching a toilet. Overflow incontinence Overflow incontinence occurs when the patient's bladder is always full so that it frequently leaks urine. Weak bladder muscles or a blocked urethra can cause this type of incontinence. Other types of incontinence Stress and urge incontinence often occur together in women. Combinations of incontinence - and this combination in particular - are sometimes referred to as "mixed incontinence." "Transient incontinence" is a temporary version of incontinence. It can be triggered by medications, urinary tract infections, mental impairment, restricted mobility, and stool impaction (severe constipation), which can push against the urinary tract and obstruct outflow. Diagnosis of incontinence A careful history taking is essential especially in the pattern of voiding and urine leakage as it suggests the type of incontinence faced. Other important points include straining and discomfort, use of drugs, recent surgery, and illness. The test often performed is the measurement of bladder capacity and residual urine for evidence of poorly functioning bladder muscles. Other tests include: Stress test - the patient relaxes, then coughs vigorously as the doctor watches for loss of urine. Urinalysis - urine is tested for evidence of infection, urinary stones, or other contributing causes. Blood tests - blood is taken, sent to a laboratory, and examined for substances related to causes of incontinence. Ultrasound - sound waves are used to "see" the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Cystoscopy - a thin tube with a tiny camera is inserted in the urethra and used to see the inside of the urethra and bladder. Urodynamics - various techniques measure pressure in the bladder and the flow of urine. Treatment of incontinence Exercises Kegel exercises to strengthen or retrain pelvic floor muscles and sphincter muscles can reduce or cure stress leakage. Electrical stimulation Brief doses of electrical stimulation can strengthen muscles in the lower pelvis in a way similar to exercising the muscles. Electrodes are temporarily placed in the vagina or rectum to stimulate nearby muscles. This will stabilize overactive muscles and stimulate contraction of urethral muscles. Electrical stimulation can be used to reduce both stress incontinence and urge incontinence. Biofeedback Biofeedback uses measuring devices to help you become aware of your body's functioning. By using electronic devices or diaries to track when your bladder and urethral muscles contract, you can gain control over these muscles. Timed voiding or bladder training Timed voiding (urinating) and bladder training are techniques that use biofeedback. In timed voiding, you fill in a chart of voiding and leaking. From the patterns that appear in your chart, you can plan to empty your bladder before you would otherwise leak. Medications Medications can reduce many types of leakage. Some drugs inhibit contractions of an overactive bladder. Others relax muscles, leading to more complete bladder emptying during urination. Some drugs tighten muscles at the bladder neck and urethra, preventing leakage. And some, especially hormones such as estrogen, are believed to cause muscles involved in urination to function normally. Pessaries A pessary is a medical device that is inserted into the vagina. The most common kind is ring shaped, and is typically recommended to correct vaginal prolapse. The pessary compresses the urethra against the symphysis pubis and elevates the bladder neck. For some women this may reduce stress leakage. Implants Implants are substances injected into tissues around the urethra. The implant adds bulk and helps to close the urethra to reduce stress incontinence. Surgery Doctors usually suggest surgery to alleviate incontinence only after other treatments have been tried. Many surgical options have high rates of success. Most stress incontinence results from the bladder dropping down toward the vagina. Therefore, common surgery for stress incontinence involves pulling the bladder up to a more normal position. Working through an incision in the vagina or abdomen, the surgeon raises the bladder and secures it with a string attached to muscle, ligament, or bone. Catheterization If you are incontinent because your bladder never empties completely (overflow incontinence) or your bladder cannot empty because of poor muscle tone, past surgery, or spinal cord injury, you might use a catheter to empty your bladder. A catheter is a tube that you can learn to insert through the urethra into the bladder to drain urine. Catheters may be used once in a while or on a constant basis, in which case the tube connects to a bag that you can attach to your leg. Bladder cancer Bladder cancer refers to any of several types of malignant growths of the urinary bladder. It is a disease in which abnormal cells multiply without control in the bladder. The bladder is a hollow, muscular organ that stores urine; it is located in the lower abdomen. The most common type of bladder cancer begins in cells lining the inside of the bladder (epithelial cells) and is called transitional cell carcinoma (TCC). The greatest risk factor for bladder cancer is a genetic predisposition; it is also associated with smoking and occupational exposure to aniline-based dyes (such as in textile factories), as well as with petrol and other chemicals. Signs and symptoms-Bladder cancer may cause blood in the urine, pain during urination, frequent urination, or feeling the need to urinate without results. Treatment The treatment of bladder cancer depends on how deep the tumor invades into the bladder wall. Superficial tumors (those not entering the muscle layer) can be "shaved off" using an electrocautery device. Tumors which infiltrate the bladder require more radical surgery where part or all of the bladder is removed and the urinary stream is diverted. Radiation can also be used to treat this disease. Immunotherapy in the form of BCG instillation is also used to treat and prevent the recurrence of superficial tumors. Genetics The FGFR3, HRAS, RB1 and TP53 genes are associated with bladder cancer. As with most cancers, the exact causes of bladder cancer are not known; however, many risk factors are associated with this disease. Chief among them are smoking and exposure to industrial chemicals. All text of this article available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License (see Copyrights for details). Online MT Course Chapter V - Urinary System Home Medical Lectures Blood System Lymphatic and Immune system Musculoskeletal System Skin & Appendages Ophthalmology Otorhinolaryngology Endocrine Glands List of Terms associated with Diabetes Cancer Medicine All Diagnostic Tests Obstetric Ultrasound Scan Pulmonary Function Test & Spirometry Radiology Pharmacology & Drug Classifications Body movements and Planes Miscellaneous Breast Human Anatomy Digestive System Urinary System Female Reproductive System Male Reproduction System Nervous System Cardiovascular System Course 1 Grammar Guidelines ABBREVIATIONS ACRONYMS AND INITIALISM ADDRESS GUIDELINES AMPERSAND APGAR SCORE CANCER CLASSIFICATION AND GUIDELINES CAPITALIZATION GUIDELINES DECIMALS Drug Abbreviations Drug Terminology EPONYM USAGE FRACTIONS GUIDELINES WITH BUILDING GUIDELINES WITH AGES BLOOD COUNTS Guidelines with Blood Pressure Guidelines with Dates Guidelines with Proper names SI UNITS VIRGULE Diabetes Mellitus Format for Letters Geographic Names & Proper Names Genetic Terminology Transcribing Globulins & Immunoglobulins Guidelines for transcribing numbers Obstetrics Terminology Transcribing suture Transcribing percentages English Usage Occupation Index Medical Prescription? Some English Prefixes and Suffixes Frequently Used Pleural Forms PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES Medicine Specialties and Specialists Combining Forms Diagnostic Tests CAT Scan Positron Emission Tomography Magnetic Resonance Imaging Ultrasound X-ray MUGA scan Endoscopy Esophagogastroduodenoscopy Colonoscopy Endoscopic Retrograde Bronchoscopy Cystoscopy Hysteroscopy Arthroscopy Laparoscopy Barium Tests Pap Smear Flow Cytometry Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP) KUB Mammography HIV Tests (AIDS Tests) Electroencephalography Echocardiography Electrocardiogram Holter Monitor Single Photon Emission Genetic Testing Tumor Marker Tests Blood Tests Complete Blood Count Liver Function Tests Radioimmunoassay Mantoux Test Heaf Test Gram Staining Renal Function Tests Creatinine Clearance PULMONARY FUNCTION TESTS Normal Laboratory Values Obstetric Ultrasound Scan Transcription resources & indexes All Orthopedic Tests Cancer Drug Index Clinical Sign Index Commonly Used Cancer Regimens List of Eponyms in Medicine Other Transcription Resources Surgical Instrument List US State Index US City Index-State Wise Cities in Alabama (AL) Cities in Alaska (AK) Cities in Arizona Cities in Arkansas (AR) Cities in California (CA) Cities in Colorado (CO) Cities in Connecticut (CT) Cities in Delaware (DE) Cities in Florida (FL) Cities in Georgia (GA) Cities in Hawaii (HI) Cities in Idaho (ID) Cities in Illinois (IL) Cities in Indiana (IL) Cities in Iowa (IA) Cities in Kansas (KS) Cities in Kentucky (KY) Cities in Louisiana (LA) Cities in Maine (ME) Cities in Maryland (MD) Cities in Massachusetts Cities in Michigan (MI) Cities in Minnesota (MN) Cities in Mississippi (MS) Cities in Missouri (MO) Cities in Montana (MT) Cities in Nebraska (NE) Cities in Nevada (NV) Cities in New Hampshire (NH) Cities in New Jersey (NJ) Cities in New Mexico (NM) Cities in New York (NY) Cities in North Carolina (NC) Cities in North Dakota (ND) Cities iin Ohio (OH) Cities in Oklahoma (OK) Cities in Oregon (OR) Cities in Pennsylvania (PA) Cities in Rhode Island (RI) Cities in South Carolina (SC) Cities in South Dakota (SD) Cities in Tennessee (TN) Cities in Texas (TX) Cities in Utah (UT) Cities in Vermont (VT) Cities in Virginia (VA) Cities in Washington (WA) Cities in West Virginia (WV) Cities in Wisconsin (WI) Cities in Wyoming (WY) Cities in Puerto Rico (PR) Abbreviations - A Abbreviations - B Abbreviations - C Abbreviations - D Abbreviations - E Abbreviations - F Abbreviations - G Abbreviations - H Abbreviations - I Abbreviations - J Abbreviations - K Abbreviations - L Abbreviations - N Abbreviations - O Abbreviations - P Abbreviations - Q Abbreviations - R Abbreviations - S Abbreviations - T Abbreviations - U Abbreviations - V Abbreviations - W Abbreviations - X Abbreviations - Y Abbreviations - Z Drug Index - A Drug Index - B Drug Index - C Drug Index - D Drug Index - E Drug Index - F Drug Index - G Drug Index - H Drug Index - I Drug Index - J Drug Index - K Drug Index - L Drug Index - M Drug Index - N Drug Index - O Drug Index - P Drug Index - Q Drug Index - R Drug Index - S Drug Index - T Drug Index - U Drug Index - V Drug Index - W Drug Index - X Drug Index - Y Drug Index - Z Hospital Directory - A Hospital Directory - B Hospital Directory - C Hospital Directory - D Hospital Directory - E Hospital Directory - F Hospital Directory - G Hospital Directory - H Hospital Directory - I Hospital Directory - J Hospital Directory - K Hospital Directory - L Hospital Directory - M Hospital Directory - N Hospital Directory - O Hospital Directory - P Hospital Directory - Q Hospital Directory - R Hospital Directory - S Hospital Directory - T Hospital Directory - U Hospital Directory - V Hospital Directory - W Hospital Directory - Y Hospital Directory - Z Chapter I - Human Anatomy Chapter II - Human Anatomy Chapter III - Human Anatomy Chapter IV - Human Anatomy Chapter V - Human Anatomy Chapter VI - Human_Anatomy Chapter VII - Human Anatomy Chapter I - Cardiovascular System Chapter II - Cardiovascular System Chapter III - Cardiovascular System Chapter IV - Cardiovascular System Chapter I - Dermatology Chapter II - Dermatology Chapter III - Dermatology Chapter IV - Dermatology Chapter I - Digestive System Chapter II - Digestive System Chapter III - Digestive System Chapter I - Respiratory System Chapter II - Respiratory System Chapter III - Respiratory System Chapter IV - Respiratory System Chapter V - Respiratory System Chapter I - Endocrine System Chapter II - Endocrine System Chapter III - Endocrine System Chapter IV - Endocrine System Chapter V - Endocrine System Chapter VI - Endocrine System Chapter VII - Endocrine System Chapter VIII - Endocrine System Chapter I - Urinary System Chapter II - Urinary System Chapter III - Urinary System Chapter IV - Urinary System Chapter V - Urinary System Chapter VI - Urinary System Chapter I - Male Reproduction Chapter II - Male Reproduction Chapter III - Male Reproduction Chapter IV - Male Reproduction Chapter V - Male Reproduction Chapter I - Gynecology Chapter II - Obstetrics Chapter III - Female Reproductive System Chapter IV - Female Reproduction Chapter V - Female Reproduction Chapter VI - Female Reproduction Chapter VII - Obstetric Procedures Chapter I - Bony Organization Chapter II - Vertebral Column Chapter IV - All about Muscles Chapter V - Fractures Chapter VI - Bone Pathology Chapter I - Eye Anatomy Chater II - Eye Physiology Chapter III - Visual Apparatus Chapter IV-Eye Pathology Chapter V - Common Eye Procedures Chapter VI - Eye Pharmacology Chapter I - ENT Anatomy Chapter II - ENT Examination Chapter III - ENT Pathology Chapter IV - ENT Procedures Chapter V - Common Terms Anemia & Types of Anemia Body Movements and Planes Blood Type Blood Transfusion and Substitutes Breast Anatomy and Pathology Cancer Drug Classification Infectious Diseases Suture materials Training Audio Files Section I - Audio Files Transcribed Documents Transcribed Documents-Section I Quality Assessment Standards The 206 Bones in Human Body Section II - Abbrevation Audio Files Section II - Transcribing Abbreviations Section III - Examination Audio Filies Section III - Transcribing Physical Exam Section IV - Audios for Drugs Section V - Specialty Audios Section V - Specialty Transcriptions Section IV - Transcription of Drugs Section VI - Specialty Audios Section VI - Specialty Transcriptions Useful Downloads Chapter III - Chest & Pelvis Section VII - Audio Section VII - Specialty Transcription Section VIII - Audio Section IX - Audio Dictation Section VIII - Specialty Transcription Section X - Audio Dictation Section IX - Transcribed Documents Section X - Transcribed Documents Contact Medical Transcription Courses near you. Firstname * Lastname * Email * Phone * Alt. Phone Zip * Brief reason to contact * More information... Requirements for Online MT Course Medical Transcription Curriculum requirements, Skills and Abilities: ·	High school diploma and versatile with English language...... Starting a Medical Transcription Business Starting a Medical Transcription Business - Medical transcription is one of the few hot careers of this decade. With aging population and decreasing workforce, never before has the shortage of... ... Medical Transcription Outsourcing – Future? Medical Transcription Outsourcing – Future? It is an established fact that atleast 20 to 30% of medical transcription work is outsourced to other countries that include India and Philippines, with.. ... Medical transcriptionist Salary and their Earnings-How much does an MT really earn Medical transcriptionist Salary and their Earnings-How much does an MT really earn. One will be amazed at the complexities and range of what a transcriptionist usually earns, be it a medical...... Transcription FAQs Frequently Asked Questions About Transcription and Online Free MT Course - our medical transcription course is completely free of charge. This will save you around $2000 to $4000. So, what is required... Search for transcription jobs Express Search Medical Transcription Jobs - Search for some of the best MT jobs here. Every month the listings are updated to let you know which companies are looking for you. ... Future Outlook For Medical Transcription According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the future outlook for medical transcription looks good. This is a lucrative, in demand-career with great growth opportunities.... Medical Transcription Resumes In the constantly changing job market, a well-written, effective resume is an excellent tool for finding a desirable job. This applies to all fields, including that of medical transcription... What Education Does a Medical Transcriptionist Need? If you are looking for a job in medical transcription, you will need some sort of formal MT training beyond high school. Fortunately, medical transcription education doesn't require the time and cost ... Medical Transcription Proofreading Tips The correct attitude for a Medical Transcriptionist should be one of independence and responsibility for his or her work. Medical Transcriptionists function with a minimum of direct supervision. ... Medical Transcription Jobs Medical transcribing means interpreting information of medical records that are dictated by healthcare professionals and physicians. ... Medical Transcription A  reliable and dependable service in medical transcription will bring more business than you can take care of. A highly trained medical transcriptionist will retain the integrity of the document.... Is A Medical Transcription Career Right For You? There's a lot of hype about the medical transcription industry being an easy career choice. Some people even believe all that hype. It is a great career and you'll make good money... Voice Recognition And Medical Transcription You’ve probably heard different opinions and views on this subject. If you’re a medical transcriptionist you may even be concerned about voice recognition taking over your career… and you’re not alone... Medical Transcription Home Study Courses If you are interested in medical transcription training but have a busy schedule, there are options to brick-and-mortar vocational schools. ... Choosing Medical Transcription as a Career Medical transcription is one of those careers where you either hate it or love it. I have been a medical transcriptionist for a long time and still love what I do. ... Home Based Medical Transcription Many Moms are looking for home based businesses for a variety of valid reasons. There are stay at home Moms who want to earn the household a second income, those who want to get out of the rat race... Online Courses in Medical Transcription If you're thinking about enrolling in a medical transcription school but can't fit classes into your schedule, you might want to consider learning from an online school.... Popular Questions by MTs Popular Questions... Contact Us | Site Map | RSS Feeds | Articles | Jobs 