
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 03:26:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

CCSB.ORG Acupuncture Cancer Center of Santa Barbara Home About Us History Mission Statement Leadership Medical Care & Support Support the Legacy Calendar Events Publications Locations & Interactive Map Employment Volunteers News Room Cancer Information By Disease Treatment Complementary & Alternative Medicine Clinical Trials Screening & Detection Supportive Care Prevention Patients & Families Medical Care & Support Programs & Services Cancer Resource Library Clinical Trials Cancer Prevention Calendar Grateful Patients & Families Frequently Asked Questions Healthcare Professionals Departments & Programs Medical Library Clinical Trials Cancer Information Medical Education A | A | A Employment News Room Calendar Giving Locations Contact Us FAQ Home » Cancer Information » Complementary & Alternative Medicine » Acupuncture » About Us Cancer Information By Disease Treatment Complementary & Alternative Medicine Clinical Trials Screening & Detection Supportive Care Prevention Patients & Families Healthcare Professionals Cancer Information Acupuncture (PDQ®) Overview Questions and Answers About Acupuncture Current Clinical Trials Changes to This Summary (07/26/2011) General CAM Information Evaluation of CAM Approaches Questions to Ask Your Health Care Provider About CAM To Learn More About CAM Overview Acupuncture applies needles, heat, pressure, and other treatments to one or more places on the skin known as acupuncture points (see Question 1). Acupuncture has been used in China and other Asian countries for thousands of years as part of traditional Chinese medicine (see Question 2). Acupuncture has been used in the United States for about 200 years (see Question 2). Acupuncture is used to treat many illnesses and ailments; however, it is mainly used to control pain, including cancer pain, and to help control nausea and vomiting . (see Question 2). There is strong evidence from clinical trials that acupuncture relieves nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy (see Question 7). Acupuncture may work by causing physical responses in nerve cells , the pituitary gland , and parts of the brain (see Question 4). Laboratory and animal studies of acupuncture for cancer treatment suggest acupuncture can reduce vomiting caused by chemotherapy and may help a person's immune system work better (see Question 6). The most acupuncture research on cancer has been done in China (see Question 7). Most acupuncture research with cancer patients studies the use of acupuncture to relieve symptoms caused by cancer treatment (see Question 7). It is important that acupuncture treatment be given by a qualified practitioner who uses a new set of disposable (single-use) needles for each patient (see Question 8 ). [ Back to Top ] Questions and Answers About Acupuncture What is acupuncture? Acupuncture applies needles, heat, pressure, and other treatments to certain places on the skin to cause a change in the physical functions of the body. The use of acupuncture is part of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). TCM is a medical system that has been used for thousands of years to prevent, diagnose , and treat disease. Acupuncture is based on the belief that qi (vital energy) flows through the body along a network of paths, called meridians . Qi is said to affect a person’s spiritual , emotional, mental, and physical condition. According to TCM, qi has two forces, yin and yang . Yin and yang are opposite forces that work together to form a whole. The forces of yin and yang depend on each other and are made from each other in an unending cycle, such as hot and cold, day and night, and health and disease. Nothing is ever all yin or all yang, both exist in all things, including people. Many of the major organs of the body are believed to be yin-yang pairs that must be in balance to be  healthy. When a person's yin and yang are not in balance, qi can become blocked. Blocked qi causes pain, illness, or other health problems. TCM uses acupuncture, diet , herbal therapy, meditation, physical exercise, and massage to restore health by unblocking qi and correcting the balance of yin and yang within the person.Most acupuncturists in the United States practice acupuncture according to the  traditions of Chinese medicine . However, there are other types of acupuncture, including some used for medical treatment,  that have different theories about meridians and acupoint locations.What is the history of the discovery and use of acupuncture as a
            complementary and alternative treatment for cancer?The oldest medical book known, written in China 4000 years ago, describes the use of acupuncture to treat medical problems. The use of the treatment spread to other Asian countries and to other regions of the world, including to Europe by the 1700s. In the United States, acupuncture has been used for about 200 years.Research on acupuncture began in the United States in 1976. Twenty years later, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the acupuncture needle as a medical device . Many illnesses are treated with acupuncture, but it is used mainly to control pain, including pain in cancer patients and to help control nausea and vomiting . Its primary use in cancer patients has been as an addition to conventional (standard)  therapy.What is the theory behind the claim that acupuncture is useful in treating cancer?According to TCM, qi can be unblocked by using acupuncture at certain places on the skin, called acupoints . Acupoints are places where the meridians come to the surface of the body. There are more than 2,000 acupoints on the human body, with specific acupoints for each condition being treated.What physical effects may acupuncture have when used in cancer patients?Acupuncture may cause physical responses in nerve cells , the pituitary gland , and parts of the brain. These responses can cause the body to release proteins , hormones , and brain chemicals that control a number of   body functions. It is proposed that, in this way, acupuncture affects blood pressure and body temperature,   boosts immune system activity,  and  causes the body's natural painkillers, such as endorphins ,  to be released.How is acupuncture administered?The acupuncture method most well-known uses needles. Disposable, stainless steel needles that are slightly thicker than a human hair are inserted into the skin at acupoints. The acupuncture practitioner determines the correct acupoints to use for the problem being treated. The inserted needles may be twirled, moved up and down at different speeds and depths, heated, or charged with a weak electric current. There are other acupuncture methods that do not use needles. Some acupuncture techniques include the following: Electroacupuncture : A procedure in which pulses of weak electrical current are sent through acupuncture needles into acupoints in the skin. Trigger point acupuncture : The placing of  acupuncture needles in a place on the skin that is  away from the painful part of the body. Trigger points have to do with referred pain, pain that is not felt at the site of injury, but is sent along nerves and felt elsewhere in the body. Laser acupuncture : The use of a weak laser beam instead of an acupuncture needle to stimulate an acupoint. Acupuncture point injection : The use of a syringe and needle to inject drugs , vitamins , herbal extracts , or other fluids into the body at an acupoint. Microwave acupuncture : The use of a microwave device attached to an acupuncture needle to deliver microwave radiation to an acupoint. Acupressure : A type of massage therapy in which the fingers are used to press on an acupoint. In cancer patients, acupressure has been used to control symptoms such as pain or nausea and vomiting . Moxibustion : A type of heat therapy in which an herb is burned above the body to warm a meridian at an acupoint and increase the flow of blood and qi. The herb may be placed directly on the skin,  held close to the skin for several minutes, or placed on the  tip of an acupuncture needle. Cupping : A procedure in which a rounded glass cup is warmed and placed upside down over an area of the body, making a vacuum that holds the cup to the skin. Cupping is used to increase the flow of blood and qi. It is believed to open up the skin’s pores and allow toxins to leave the body.
Have any preclinical (laboratory or animal) studies  been conducted using    
	acupuncture?
Scientific studies on the use of acupuncture to treat cancer and side effects of cancer began only recently. Laboratory and animal studies suggest that acupuncture can reduce vomiting caused by chemotherapy and may help the immune system be stronger during chemotherapy. Animal studies support the use of electroacupuncture to relieve cancer pain. Laboratory and animal studies have also looked at how acupuncture works for cancer treatment,   such as the role of acupuncture in stimulating immune functions , including  increasing blood cell count and enhancing lymphocyte and natural killer cell activity. Have any  clinical trials (research studies with people) of acupuncture been conducted? Most studies of the use of acupuncture in cancer patients have been done in China. In 1997, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) began evaluating the safety and effectiveness of acupuncture as a complementary and alternative therapy . Studies of the effect of acupuncture on the immune system Human studies on the effect of acupuncture have shown that it changes immune system response. Studies of the effect of acupuncture on pain In clinical studies , acupuncture reduced the amount of pain in some cancer patients. In one study, most of the patients treated with acupuncture were able to stop taking drugs for pain relief or to take smaller doses . The findings from these studies are not considered strong, however, because of weaknesses in study design and size. Studies using strict scientific methods are needed to prove how acupuncture affects pain. Studies of the effect of acupuncture on muscle and joint pain from aromatase inhibitors Aromatase inhibitors , a type of hormone therapy for postmenopausal women who have hormone-dependent breast cancer , may cause muscle and joint pain. A randomized study found that true acupuncture was much more effective in relieving joint pain and stiffness than sham (inactive) acupuncture in patients taking aromatase inhibitors. Studies of the effect of acupuncture on nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy The strongest evidence of the effect of acupuncture has come from clinical trials on the use of acupuncture to relieve nausea and vomiting. Several types of clinical trials using different acupuncture methods showed acupuncture reduced nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy, surgery , and morning sickness. It appears to be more effective in preventing vomiting than in reducing nausea.A study of acupuncture, vitamin B6 injections , or both  for nausea and vomiting in patients treated with chemotherapy for ovarian cancer found that acupuncture and vitamin B6 together gave more relief from vomiting than acupuncture or vitamin B6 alone.A study was made of acupressure for relief of nausea and vomiting in women undergoing chemotherapy. The study found that acupressure applied to an acupuncture point with a wristband helped to decrease nausea and vomiting  and reduced the amount of medicine the women used for those symptoms . Studies of the effect of acupuncture on hot flashes in patients treated for cancer Hormone therapy may cause hot flashes in women with breast cancer and men with prostate cancer . Some studies have shown that acupuncture may be effective in relieving hot flashes in these patients. Study of the effect of acupuncture on fatigue in patients treated for cancer A randomized study of patients with cancer-related fatigue found that those who had a series of acupuncture treatments had less fatigue  compared to those who had acupressure or sham acupressure treatments. Studies of the effect of acupuncture on cancer  symptoms (other than nausea) and side effects of cancer treatment The aim of most acupuncture clinical observation and clinical trials in cancer patients has been to study the effects of acupuncture on  cancer symptoms and side effects  caused by cancer treatment, including weight loss, cough, coughing up blood, anxiety , depression ,  dry mouth, proctitis , speech problems, blocked esophagus , hiccups,     and fluid in the arms or legs. Studies have shown that, for many patients, treatment with acupuncture either relieves symptoms or keeps them from getting worse.Have any side effects or risks been reported from acupuncture?There have been few complications reported. Problems are caused by  using needles that are not sterile (free of germs) and from placing the needle in the wrong place, movement of the patient, or a defect in the needle.  Problems include soreness and pain during treatment; feeling tired, lightheaded, or sleepy; and infections . Because chemotherapy and radiation therapy weaken the body's immune system, a strict clean needle method must be used when acupuncture treatment is given to cancer patients. It is important to seek treatment from a qualified acupuncture practitioner who uses a new set of  disposable (single-use) needles for each patient.
Is acupuncture approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use as a cancer treatment in the United States?The FDA approved acupuncture needles for use by licensed practitioners in 1996. The FDA requires that sterile, nontoxic needles be used and that they be labeled for single use by qualified practitioners only.More than 40 states and the District of Columbia have laws regulating acupuncture practice  (see www.acufinder.com for an online database of licensed acupuncture providers).   The National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine ( www.nccaom.org ) certifies practitioners of acupuncture and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Most states require this certification. [ Back to Top ] Current Clinical Trials Check NCI’s list of cancer clinical trials for cancer CAM clinical trials on acupuncture therapy , acupuncture-like transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation , electroacupuncture therapy and acupressure therapy that are actively enrolling patients. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site . [ Back to Top ] Changes to This Summary (07/26/2011) The PDQ cancer information summaries are reviewed regularly and updated as new information becomes available.  This section describes the latest changes made to this summary as of the date above. Editorial changes were made to this summary. [ Back to Top ] General CAM Information Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM)—also referred to as integrative medicine—includes a broad range of healing philosophies, approaches, and therapies. A therapy is generally called complementary when it is used in addition to conventional treatments; it is often called alternative when it is used instead of conventional treatment. (Conventional treatments are those that are widely accepted and practiced by the mainstream medical community.) Depending on how they are used, some therapies can be considered either complementary or alternative. Complementary and alternative therapies are used in an effort to prevent illness, reduce stress, prevent or reduce side effects and symptoms, or control or cure disease. Unlike conventional treatments for cancer, complementary and alternative therapies are often not covered by insurance companies. Patients should check with their insurance provider to find out about coverage for complementary and alternative therapies. Cancer patients considering complementary and alternative therapies should discuss this decision with their doctor, nurse, or pharmacist as they would any therapeutic approach, because some complementary and alternative therapies may interfere with their standard treatment or may be harmful when used with conventional treatment. [ Back to Top ] Evaluation of CAM Approaches It is important that the same rigorous scientific evaluation used to assess conventional approaches be used to evaluate CAM therapies. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) are sponsoring a number of clinical trials (research studies) at medical centers to evaluate CAM therapies for cancer. Conventional approaches to cancer treatment have generally been studied for safety and effectiveness through a rigorous scientific process that includes clinical trials with large numbers of patients. Less is known about the safety and effectiveness of complementary and alternative methods. Few CAM therapies have undergone rigorous evaluation. A small number of CAM therapies originally considered to be purely alternative approaches are finding a place in cancer treatment—not as cures, but as complementary therapies that may help patients feel better and recover faster. One example is acupuncture. According to a panel of experts at a National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus Conference in November 1997, acupuncture has been found to be effective in the management of chemotherapy-associated nausea and vomiting and in controlling pain associated with surgery. In contrast, some approaches, such as the use of laetrile, have been studied and found ineffective or potentially harmful. The NCI Best Case Series Program , which was started  in 1991, is one way CAM approaches that are being used in practice are being investigated. The program is overseen by the NCI’s Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine (OCCAM). Health care professionals who offer alternative cancer therapies submit their patients’ medical records and related materials to OCCAM. OCCAM conducts a critical review of the materials and develops follow-up research strategies for approaches deemed to warrant NCI-initiated research. [ Back to Top ] Questions to Ask Your Health Care Provider About CAM When considering complementary and alternative therapies, patients should ask their health care provider the following questions: What side effects can be expected? What are the risks associated with this therapy? Do the known benefits outweigh the risks? What benefits can be expected from this therapy? Will the therapy interfere with conventional treatment? Is this therapy part of a clinical trial? If so, who is sponsoring the trial? Will the therapy be covered by health insurance? [ Back to Top ] To Learn More About CAM National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) facilitates research and evaluation of complementary and alternative practices, and provides information about a variety of approaches to health professionals and the public. NCCAM Clearinghouse Post Office Box 7923 Gaithersburg, MD 20898–7923 Telephone: 1–888–644–6226 (toll free) 301–519–3153 (for International callers) TTY (for deaf and hard of hearing callers): 1–866–464–3615 Fax: 1–866–464–3616 E-mail: info@nccam.nih.gov Web site: http://nccam.nih.gov CAM on PubMed NCCAM and the NIH National Library of Medicine (NLM) jointly developed CAM on PubMed , a free and easy-to-use search tool for finding CAM-related journal citations. As a subset of the NLM's PubMed bibliographic database, CAM on PubMed features more than 230,000 references and abstracts for CAM-related articles from scientific journals. This database also provides links to the Web sites of over 1,800 journals, allowing users to view full-text articles. (A subscription or other fee may be required to access full-text articles.) CAM on PubMed is available through the NCCAM Web site . It can also be accessed through NLM PubMed bibliographic database by selecting the "Limits" tab and choosing "Complementary Medicine" as a subset. Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine The NCI Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine (OCCAM) coordinates the activities of the NCI in the area of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). OCCAM supports CAM cancer research and provides information about cancer-related CAM to health providers and the general public via the NCI Web site . National Cancer Institute (NCI) Cancer Information Service U.S. residents may call the NCI Cancer Information Service toll free at 1-800-4-CANCER (1-800-422-6237) Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm. A trained Cancer Information Specialist is available to answer your questions. Food and Drug Administration The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates drugs and medical devices to ensure that they are safe and effective. Food and Drug Administration 5600 Fishers Lane Rockville, MD 20857 Telephone: 1–888–463–6332 (toll free) Web site: http://www.fda.gov/ Federal Trade Commission The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) enforces consumer protection laws. Publications available from the FTC include: Who Cares: Sources of Information About Health Care Products and Services Fraudulent Health Claims: Don’t Be Fooled Consumer Response Center Federal Trade Commission CRC-240 Washington, DC 20580 Telephone: 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357) (toll free) TTY (for deaf and  hearing impaired callers): 202-326-2502 Web site: http://www.ftc.gov/ [ Back to Top ] 2006-05-11 This information was last updated on 2011-07-26 Focused on Cancer • Centered on You Site Map • Privacy Policy • Disclaimer •
            PH: 805.682.7300 •
            FAX: 805.898.3608 • Employees • My Account Site Map • Privacy Policy • Disclaimer • Employees • My Account Cancer Center of Santa Barbara • 300 West Pueblo Street, Santa Barbara, CA 93105 PH: 805.682.7300 • 