Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

acupuncture and herbal medicine for pain, stress, and chronic disease treatment tension headaches - Would you like information about relieving tension headaches with traditional medicine? Emotional stress and muscular tension can cause very severe headaches in the back or front of the head. Anyone who suffers more than three mild headaches a month should look into acupuncture and traditional medicine to relieve the pain of tension headache. If you have tension headaches, please visit our site for information on treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. Women who note a relationship between the menstrual cycle and tension headache, vascular headache, sinus headache, and migraine headache may also find acupuncture and Chinese herbal treatments helpful. viral hepatitis - Increasing numbers of people are being infected with the various hepatitis viruses. Hepatitis A, widespread in central and southern Asia, and which is transmitted fairly easily by poor hygiene and uncooked foods, as well as chopsticks and drinking glasses, is not usually fatal, but can result in unpleasant symptoms of fatigue, nausea, decreased appetite, and joint and muscle pain. Nonetheless, hepatitis A occasionally causes quick destruction of the liver and death. There are no effective treatments in Western medicine for hepatitis A, and so physicians address each of the symptoms symptomatically when they can. Hepatitis A has an incubation period of 1 to three weeks and can also be transmitted sexually. Outbreaks in day care centers are increasingly common. There may be a place for Chinese medicine in the treatment of hepatitis A, and although some people seem to develop better resistance to viral illness during acupuncture treatment, there is no evidence at present that acupuncture can prevent hepatitis A. Vaccination is a reasonable solution and should be strongly considered. It should be noted that the Chinese discovered the principles of vaccination long before they were known in the West.Infection with hepatitis B is more likely to result in serious and chronic disease, and this seems to also be true for hepatitis C. Hepatitis D seems to be limited to an association with hepatitis B. Curiously, hepatitis D has similarities to plant viruses, and may have had its origins in the plant world. Hepatitis E seems to be an enterovirus and is transmitted by an oral-fecal route, and hepatitis G and F are presently under investigation. There may be some similarities in the G virus to certain viruses which infect other primates. Transmission of hepatitis B occurs during pregnancy, with intravenous and blood transfusion contamination, and sexually. Health care workers are also at risk through exposure to body fluids and blood. Exposure to untreated sewage also presents a risk. trigeminal neuralgia - trigeminal neuralgia, or "tic doloreaux" (which means "painful spasm"), is a painful and disturbing syndrome of pain in one of three divisions of the trigeminal nerve. There are three areas of the face, which are served by the trigeminal nerve, roughly corresponding to the forehead and eyebrow, the eye and cheek and upper jaw, and the lower jaw. Usually one sided, it can occasionally affect both sides of the face. Typically, the pain is extremely penetrating and intense, and can be triggered by movement of the facial muscles or touching a "trigger" point on the face or inside the mouth. If you have considered traditional medicine techniques such as acupuncture and herbal medicine for this problem, you can come to our site for information on trigeminal neuralgia treatment. integrative medicine - Instead of integrative or complementary medicine vrs. "modern" medicine, the appropriate distinction is one of medicine and non-medicine. Aside from being logically unassailable, such a perspective allows us to focus on the factors that define medical practice, free of the cultural bias that normally corrupts such discussions. Our own Western heritage, after all, has its roots in Arabic, Greek, and Persian roots in addition to those that came from European influence, and each of these medicines had also sucessfully "integrated" concepts and techniques from other cultures. holistic medicine - The complex traditional medicines of other cultures and the past have generally not created false distinctions between body and mind. The system of medical thinking which dominates the United States has its origins in a 19th century view of how the body functions. Little was known or theorized about the neuroendocrine system, and physicians trained in this country over the past 50 years have tended to specialize to an antiquated categorization of workroles. These categories which are no longer scientifically or clinically justified, but enormous economic investment has been made into this structure of theory and practice, as well as even more enormous investments of ego. For this reason, it is unlikely that a challenge to the present medical industrial complex will make much progress. Oriental medicine and women's health issues - Have you ever wondered about preventative medicine and Oriental medicine to address issues in women's health? In the Oriental method of treatment, one of the most important approaches is herbal medicine. In actuality, more than just herbs are used, usually including roots, barks, flowers, and fruits. Sometimes animal products are used, but we never use endangered species of plants or animals at Acupuncture Associates. Infertility, postpartum disorders, premenstrual disorders, irregular periods, heavy bleeding, endometriosis, hormone related emotional imbalances, pelvic pain, menopausal symptoms, disorders of the lunar cycle, as well as many other gynecologic disorders can be treated with the help of acupuncture and herbal medicine. botox or acupuncture for headache - Have you been reading about botox injections for the treatment of chronic headache? Have you wondered if acupuncture might be a better, less risky, and less expensive alternative to botox? "botox" is a preparation of botulism toxin that has become a popular treatment for a variety of problems in which increased muscle tone has been diagnosed. Injection of botox into muscles results in a partial paralysis of the neuro-endocrine mechanisms that maintain muscle tone. It is, in essence, a pharmaceutical method of "snipping" bundles of muscles to make them weaker. what is alternative medicine? - One of the more confusing terms in common use is "alternative medicine". It is common to hear of Oriental or Chinese medicine referred to as an "alternative" to Western medical practice. This is a misguided distinction based on economics and politics. For reasons unrelated to clinical effectiveness or scientific validity, some practices have become dominant in our society, and some, ignored, Techniques that have stood the tests of time and patient acceptance in other cultures are often rejected because they are unfamiliar and strange to physicians increasingly trained in a narrow industrialized model of medical care. what is complementary medicine? - The concept of "complementary medicine" is illogical. One might draw the parallel of speaking of light, and "complementary" light rather than understanding that the issue is defining the difference between light and the absence of light. So, instead of integrative or complementary medicine, the appropriate distinction is one of medicine and non-medicine. Aside from being logically unassailable, such a perspective allows us to focus on the factors that define medical practice, free of the cultural bias that normally corrupts such discussions. Our own Western heritage, after all, has its roots in Arabic, Greek, and Persian roots in addition to those that came from European influence. visit The Lunar Clinic, the first virtual Chinese herbal clinic exclusively for women - Combining the best of Western medical knowledge with the time-honored traditions of Oriental herbal medicine, women around the World are now empowered with more choices for themselves and their families.The unique strengths of Chinese herbal medicine to regulate and balance the lunar and life cycles are now available to women in the West through The Lunar Clinic. Designed and directed by a nurse with more than 28 years of experience in Western medicine as well as unique qualifications in Oriental medicine,The Lunar Clinic is the first e-medicine site exclusively for women. As a result of the efforts of hundreds of generations of physicians, shamans, wise women, and mothers of all nations and cultures, it is now known that health is a dynamic state, always changing and adapting to changes in environment, food, social network, and spiritual and emotional condition. abnormal menstrual cycles - dysfunctional uterine bleeding is a term which is applied by Western physicians to a variety of disorders which result in prolonged menstrual bleeding, bleeding which is too heavy or too light or absent, or comes more often than every 25 days or less often than every 32 days. Usually bleeding from structural abnormalities, such as tumors or endometriosis is excluded from this category. Chinese medicine and acupuncture is often the most reasonable choice for correcting functional disorders of all sorts because of the very low risk involved when compared with hormonal, drug, or surgical therapy. acupuncture and tinnitus - Are you wondering about treating tinnitus with traditional Oriental medicine? Tinnitus, or "ringing in the ears", is a disturbing symptom in which it seems as if a constant humming, ringing, or buzzing affects one or both ears. A variation of this symptom is a blowing or "swooshing" sound in the ear that coincides with the pulse beat. If you have considered traditional Chinese medicine techniques such as acupuncture and herbal medicine for this problem, you can come to our site for information on tinnitus treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert on Oriental herbs. acupuncture and infertility - Time will prove that traditional Chinese medicine's methods of treatment like acupuncture, helps to reduce medical cost and suffering. The treatment of infertility uses the body's natural resources to achieve successful pregnancy. In vivo or in vitro methods use unnatural methods to restrict the possible combinations of sperm and egg, and can never duplicate the unmanipulated methods of traditional medicine. Increasing numbers of parents are seeking the benefits of non invasive and less dangerous traditional herbal medicine and acupuncture to achieve pregnancy. Physical and emotional imbalances during and after pregnancy can also be treated. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. Chinese medicine and menopause Many changes in the body and psyche are seen as the lunar cycle of bleeding transforms into a lunar cycle of building spirit. In our society, this transition is often associated with physical symptoms of hot flash, depression, abnormal response to emotion, impaired heat regulation, and changes in sexual desire levels as well as an improvement or worsening of conditions present before menopause such as migraine headache, memory impairment, arthritis, cardiovascular disease, and osteopenia and osteoporosis. The Chinese specialty of fu-ke, which includes obstetrics, gynecology, and some aspects of pediatrics, has effective techniques to be considered in addition or in place of modern Western technique. acupuncture and irritable bowel syndrome - Have you ever wondered about treating the pain, cramping, bloating, gas, constipation and diarrhea of irritable bowel syndrome with acupuncture? Some people with this diagnosis have found that there is a close relationship between their emotional state and their digestive system. Some have also found that they are sensitive to certain foods or spices. Travel or a disruption of the normal schedule can also be a contributing factor. Some women have found that there is a relationship between bowel symptoms and the menstrual cycle. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an Oriental herbalist. Oriental medicine and rheumatoid arthritis - Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus erythematosis and rheumatoid arthritis can sometimes be treated with acupuncture and Chinese medicinals. In general, there is no one pattern of disharmony in Chinese medicine which corresponds exactly to the Western diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis, so different patients may receive different patterns of treatment. One advantage of the traditonal medicines of the Orient is the emphasis on individualizing treament to fit the pattern, age, sex, diet, and constitution of the patient. Tibetan herbs - Are you looking for traditional Tibetan herbal formulas, or advice on Tibetan medicine? Do you need the services of an experienced herbalist who knows how to compound the ancient remedies of the Far East? Do you wonder if Tibetan medicine can help your problems? If you answer "yes" to any of these questions, then you can come to our site for information on the use of Tibetan herbs and Tibetan medicine to balance complex disorders. Balinese medicine - Balinese medicine is a unique tradition whose origins stem from many Asian countries and has been uniquely integrated by the Balinese. It has strong parallels with African medicine, Tibetan medicine and Chinese medicine, as well as the Ayurvedic medicine of India. In Bali, many factors are thought to contribute to disease. In addition to emotional and physical disorders, Balinese medicine addresses attention to the invisible realms around us to deal with complex spiritual and psychological disorders. If you are curious about the healing mantras of Balinese medicine, come to our site for further information stroke and vascular accidents - A vast amount of disability results from strokes, brain attacks, and vascular accidents. Stroke can be a result of a blood clot, a hemorrhage, or an embolus of fat or other material. Ideally, even when the symptoms are still evolving, the patient should be treated with acupuncture. Acupuncture can also help restore function and strength and coordination, as well as addressing numbness and pain and speech problems that can follow stroke. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert on Oriental herbs. acupuncture for Bell's palsy - Sudden weakness or paralysis of muscles of the face and tongue supplied by the seventh cranial nerve is known as Bell's palsy. Usually associated with a viral problem, I have also seen this when the patient is exposed to a draft or wind. Acupuncture is usually very effective with Bell's palsy when applied very soon after the onset of symptoms. There are some plant derived formulas that can be helpful, also. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. acupuncture and premenstrual syndrome - Have you ever wondered about treating premenstrual syndrome with acupuncture? In the Oriental method of treatment, one of the most important tools of treatment is herbal medicine, closely followed by acupuncture. Premenstrual syndrome, irregular periods, amenorrhea, female and male infertility, menopausal symptoms, and many gynecologic problems can be helped by acupuncture and Oriental herbal therapy. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert on Chinese herbs. acupuncture and premenstrual dysphoria disease - Have you ever wondered about treating premenstrual dysphoria (which means an "unhappy mood") with acupuncture? In the Oriental method of treatment, one of the most important methods of treatment is acupuncture, combined with herbal therapy. Emotional upset and physical symptoms such as pelvic pain, breast pain, cravings, constipation, bloating, diarrhea, abnormal bleeding and back pain can be helped by Oriental medicine. Visit this page to know more about treatments with acupuncture and consultation with an Oriental herbalist. acupuncture and arthritis - The pain of arthritis can often be helped by the effective application of acupuncture and moxibustion. Dietary therapy and treatment with herbs can also be helpful. The side effects of drug therapy may then be avoided. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. Oriental medicine in Cleveland - There are not many physicians knowledgeable in Oriental medicine in Ohio. We were the first to offer comprehensive Oriental therapy in Cleveland and Dr. Grotte was the first physician in Ohio to be board certified in acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine. If you are wondering if acupuncture or herbal medicine can help you, please visit this page to learn about our Cleveland clinic. acupuncture and postpartum disorders - Are you wondering about relief for postpartum depression, emotional imbalances in the period after giving birth, and other physical problems that can follow having a baby? If you answer in the affirmative, then you can come to our site for information on the treatment of postpartum imbalances with acupuncture and Oriental medicines. Visit this page to know more about acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. acupuncture for low back pain - Pain in the back, whether due to arthritis, sciatica, neuralgia, post herpetic neuralgia, muscle strain, injury, or even after back surgery has been unsuccessful, can be helped by acupuncture and Chinese herbs. Symptoms that worsen in damp weather can also be treated with moxibustion and herbal therapy. Most people will suffer low back pain on occasion. Relieving pain with acupuncture makes it possible to begin exercise therapy to restore range of motion and function. The side effects of drug therapy may then be avoided. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert in Chinese herbs. chronic headaches - Are you wondering about relieving chronic headache with traditional medicine? You can come to our site for information on relieving chronic headache with acupuncture. If you have more than 2 to 3 headaches a week, you may be suffering from chronic headache. Here we tell you more about acupuncture and traditional oriental medicine to address chronic pain and chronic headache. acupuncture and endometriosis - Have you ever wondered about treating endometriosis with traditional medicines and acupuncture? In the Oriental method of gynecology, known as "fu-ke" in the language of Traditional Chinese medicine (tcm), one of the most important approaches is herbal medicine. In actually, more than just herbs are used, usually including roots, barks, flowers, and fruits. Learn more about the Oriental treatment of endometriosis when you visit this page. Chinese herbalist services - If you are in need of a Chinese herbalist to expertly formulate a therapy for a complex or simple disorder, you may want to know more about this subject. More and more physicians and patients are interested in the use of plant derived medications to treat the symptoms of disease. Chinese herbal medicines have a long tradition of use in Europe and Asia and have proven to be helpful with many fewer side effects than drug therapy. A skilled Chinese herbalist can guide you. chronic pain treatments - Traditional medicine, also known as Oriental medicine, is a rare art that is very popular in the Far East and Europe. Physicians and patients in the United States are also learning the value of these ancient traditions. For more than 2500 years, generations of patients and physicians have depended on traditional medicine for chronic pain treatments. Go to this page to know more about chronic pain treatments. acupuncture and chronic fatigue - Have you ever wondered about treating chronic fatigue with acupuncture? In the Oriental method of treatment, one of the most important methods of treatment is acupuncture. Chronic fatigue, insomnia, problems concentrating, and poor stamina, as well as the symptoms of many other diseases can be reduced with the help of acupuncture and herbal medicine. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert on Oriental herbs. trigger point migraine - Have you been diagnosed with "trigger point migraine"? Neurologists have recently created a new category for headache known as trigger point migraine, as most people with chronic headache have tender points along the channels of the neck and head. Oriental doctors have known of these for centuries, and are much more sophisticated in the treatment of migraines than modern physicians. Recognizing that merely injecting the trigger point may have some effect is not the same as understanding the anatomy of the acupuncture meridians. The root cause of trigger point migraines may also be better addressed by the individualized approach that results from evaluation by a physician trained in all aspects of Oriental medicine. Oriental medicine and osteoarthritis - Present theory in the West suggests that some forms of arthritis, such as osteoarthritis, are the result of excessive wear on the joints from normal living activity, or from prolonged use of a joint in an abnormal way. Those who are involved in repetitive activities, or heavy weight bearing work may place abnormal stress on a joint and develop damage at an early age. Weakness of muscles around the joint as well as abnormal use may contribute to the breakdown of the joint. Chinese medicine and acupuncture can help with the pain of osteoarthritis and patients may more comfortably exercise to maintain strength and range of motion. If drugs are used, the dosage and thus the side effects may be reduced. pain management - Traditional medicine, one form of which is also known as Oriental medicine, is a rare art that is very popular in the Far East. For more than 2500 years, generations of patients and physicians have depended on acupuncture and traditional medicine for pain management. Go to this page to know more about pain management with acupuncture and herbal medicine. Chinese medicine herbs - In the ancient traditions of medicine, physicians utilized all sorts of natural resources to aid them in treating disease. A long history of using plant based medicines exists in Asia, and is only rarely available in the West. Many ingredients are combined to form an individualized formula to address the unique problems of each patient. Learn more about Chinese medicine herbs by visiting this page. acupuncture for painful disorders - Acupuncture can help the pain from a variety of diseases and disorders that cause pain. Since pain is a symptom, sometimes it is preferable to address the cause of the pain even when the pain is gone. Chronic disorders may also require long term treatment for the best result. To find out more about treating pain with acupuncture, visit this page. clinical acupuncture and Oriental medicine - Have you ever wondered about clinical acupuncture and Oriental medicine? Would you like to know whether you could be benefited from this centuries-old practice? For more information on these techniques, visit this page. female infertility - Oriental methods to address female infertility at a reasonable cost involve herbal medicine and acupuncture. Many causes of female infertility, such as irregular cycles, amenorrhea, problems with ovulation, and histories of many miscarriages can be addressed by the use of traditional methods. It is better to use these techniques primarily, without trying to combine them with Western surgical or hormonal treatments. Visit this page to know more about traditional medicine for overcoming female infertility. migraine headaches - Are you wondering about relieving migraine headaches with traditional medicine? Many people suffer these very severe headaches on a regular basis. If you are one of these migraine sufferers, then you can come to our site for information on treating migraine headaches with acupuncture. Most of the time people with migraine headache also have tension headache, vascular headache, sinus headache, and these can be addressed. Here we tell you more about our treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist acupuncture for sciatica - Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve can be helped by rapid application of acupuncture. This pain typically radiates along the back of the buttocks, thighs and legs, but other patterns are possible. Pain in the back, whether due to arthritis, sciatica, neuralgia, post herpetic neuralgia, muscle strain, injury, or even after back surgery has been unsuccessful, can be helped by acupuncture and Chinese herbs. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert on Chinese herbs. Chinese herbal remedies - More and more physicians and patients are interested in the use of plant-derived medications to treat the symptoms of disease. Chinese herbal medicines have a long tradition of use in Europe and Asia and have proven to be helpful with many fewer side effects than drug therapy. Chinese herbal medicines have been used for a variety of medical and surgical problems. If you have wondered if Chinese herbal medicine can be helpful for you, this page will give you more information. infertility treatment - Our experience suggests that acupuncture and Chinese herbology are more effective and much less unpleasant and dangerous than hormonal treatment and surgery for infertility treatment. The cost of a course of Western treatment is also 40 to 100 times greater than a similar course of acupuncture treatment. In this page you can know more about infertility treatment. Japanese acupuncture - Have you ever wondered about Japanese acupuncture and whether it can help you? Japanese style acupuncture uses smaller needles and less stimulation of the acupuncture points. Patients generally feel more comfortable with treatment. Rapid results are also sometimes possible with Japanese acupuncture, and so it has become a very popular style in the United States. For more information on treatment with Japanese acupuncture and consultation for herbal therapy, please visit this page. infertility treatments - Time will prove that traditional methods of infertility treatments like acupuncture help to reduce medical cost and utilize natural means to attain pregnancy. Unlike Western in vitro and hormonal stimulation, traditional tools such as acupuncture try to address the underlying cause of infertility. One secret of improving health at a reasonable cost lies in the use of traditional medicines to address your physical and emotional imbalances. Visit this page to more about infertility treatments. knee injuries - The results of our treatment for knee injuries are often very satisfying to the patient in terms of pain relief, decrease of swelling, and return to function. Here we tell you more about traditional medicine, treatment with acupuncture, and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. vascular headaches - Are you wondering about treating vascular headaches with traditional medicine? If you answer in the affirmative, then you can come to our site for information on the treatment of vascular headaches with acupuncture. knee injury - Traditional medicine and acupuncture can effectively treat a knee injury. Although this aspect of acupuncture is not well known to everyone, we always advise a patient to try to undergo treatment within 48 hours of a knee injury. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. medical diagnosis - For more than 2500 years, generations of patients and physicians have depended on Oriental methods of medical diagnosis to guide the physician in providing appropriate preventative care, basic medical treatment, and advanced therapy for balancing complex disorders. Here we tell you more about the Oriental medical diagnosis available at our office. chronic pain - The treatment of chronic painful conditions is one area where traditional medical techniques are well known. Acupuncture, moxibustion, and herbal medicines can all be applied to treat the suffering of chronic pain. If you are suffering from chronic pain, go to this page to know more about Oriental approaches for chronic pain treatments. Oriental medicine - One who practices Oriental medicine, believes that for positive results in medicine, there has to be mutual trust, mutual responsibility and a common commitment between the physician and his patient. Traditional doctors seek to serve only the patient's well being. From this page, you can know more about the advantages of Oriental medicine. smoking cessation therapy - Are you wondering about smoking cessation therapy using acupuncture? Tobacco addiction is one of the most difficult as it involves both strong habit and unpleasant withdrawal symptoms. If you have been having problems quitting smoking or tobacco use, then you can come to our site for information on smoking cessation therapy with acupuncture. Visit this page to know how you can get rid of your smoking habit. sports injuries - Traditional medicine, also known as Oriental medicine, is a rare art that is very popular in the Far East. For more than 2500 years, generations of patients and physicians have depended on traditional medicine for injuries from martial arts, exercise, and recreational and professional sports. Go to this page to know more about our treatment with acupuncture and consultation with an expert on Chinese herbs. Tibetan medicine - Tibetan medicine is one of the traditional medicines of central Asia. The emphasis here is on the complex interaction between the mind and the body. A complex herbal system is the mainstay of therapy, but there are also unique aspects to Tibetan acupuncture and moxibustion. Visit this page to know more about treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. arthritis treatment - Our experience suggests that acupuncture and Chinese herbology are effective and cause fewer side effects than NSAID's and other drugs for arthritis treatment. Many patients are looking into the benefits of traditional oriental medicine to treat arthritis. In this page, you can know more about arthritis treatment. acupuncture for asthma - What Western doctors term asthma is a syndrome of airway inflammation and constriction, which affects the patient with cough, wheezing, and shortness of breath. Both allergy and viral infections can trigger an asthmatic episode, as well as exposure to directly irritating substances such as smoke and cosmetic fragrances. Both asthma and allergy symptoms are increasing in our society, and often require treatment with powerful drugs that cause a variety of side effects. If you have wondered if your asthma can be helped with acupuncture, visit this page. acupuncture for sinusitis -Symptoms of allergy and hypersensitivity may affect the body in the sinuses, the airways, the mucous membranes, the lungs or the skin. Some individuals develop problems in all of these areas. Sinus symptoms may include congestion, watery or sticky discharges, pain and pressure. Sinus inflammation can also trigger facial headaches as well as "migraine" type vascular headaches. Go to this page to know more about our treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. traditional Chinese medicine - The rare arts of traditional Chinese medicine are now available in Cleveland. For initial consultation on traditional Chinese medicine, you have to schedule an appointment with us. Here we tell you more about the benefits of acupuncture, moxibustion, Chinese herbs, and meditation. traditional medicine - For more than 2500 years, generations of patients and physicians have depended on traditional medicine for preventative care and basic medical treatment. Traditional medicine also helps to deal with complex disorders in your body. Visit this page to gather more knowledge on treatment with acupuncture and consultation with a Chinese herbalist. healing mantra - One of the more remarkable aspects of Balinese medicine is the use of mantra to create medicines or to treat disease using the resonance of the human voice. Very few persons in the West are even aware that such a system of healing mantra exists. Special guest author, Donna J. Morris has provided an introduction to the healing mantra of Balinese medicine so that you can learn more about this fascinating subject. African medicine - Many traditions of medicine emerged from the continent of Africa. Egyptian medicine and the West African medicine of Ifa are only two of the many systems that have influenced our modern practices. African medicine involves herbal medicine as well as the use of breath and voice and touch to treat patients and make medicines. In this way, it has parallels with Tibetan medicine, Balinese medicine, Chinese medicine, and Ayurveda. Visit this page to learn more about one form of African medicine Unani medicine - In ancient Greece, a form of medicine developed which is known in Asia as Unani medicine. Unani is the Persian word for "Greek", and, in parallel with Ayurvedic and other traditional Oriental medicines, Unani medicine postulates four "humours"; dry, moist, hot and cold. Dietary therapy, moxibustion, bleeding and cupping techniques of Unani medicine are based on this view. Visit this page to know more about Unani medicine Sufi medicine - The Islamic tradition has contributed greatly to our modern Western system, and Sufi medicine is one aspect of this extensive science. One unique aspect of Sufi medicine is the use of attars, or purified plant essences, to address spiritual and physical imbalances. Aromatherapy may have its earliest origins in Sufi medicine. Visit this page to learn more about Sufi medicine and the use of attars. menopause and Chinese medicine - One observation of Chinese physicians is that there are hormonal phases which all of us pass through during our lifetime. Traditionally, men's life patterns revolved around an eight-year cycle, and womens' phases reflected a seven-year cycle. Although the end of the lunar cycles often occurs at age 49 or later in our society, preventative approaches can be considered at age 35 or even earlier. Menopausal symptoms may reflect an imbalanced response during a normally uneventful transition, and can sometimes be helped considerably with acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine. Hot flashes, headache, joint pain, mood changes, cravings, fatigue, and disorders of the body's temperature regulation are only some of the many disorders that can accompany an unbalanced menopause. Visit our site to learn more. HRT and Oriental medicine - Increasing numbers of women are questioning the value of standardized hormone replacement therapy (hrt). Routine use of synthetic hormones to replace those lost in menopause may not be as beneficial as once believed. If hormones should be used, they should be natural in configuration (even if they are synthetically produced) meaning that progesterone and the three natural human estrogens are the only sources considered. The use of premarin and products containing premarin should not be used under any circumstances. Oriental medicine historically has utilized hormone therapy, so it is possible to derive a hormone replacement therapy consistent with each patient's individual constitutional tendency. It is also beneficial to consider the use of herbal medicine and other Chinese medicinals as these may reduce the doses of hormones needed, or may make it possible to treat side effects of hormones. In some cases, Chinese medicine can substitute for hormone replacement therapy. Acupuncture and carpal tunnel - Symptoms of numbness in the thumb and first two fingers of the hand may result from a disorder of the median nerve. It is common to have pain which extends up the forearm, and this seems to be worse upon awakening. Patients also complain of coldness in the fingers, and the sensation that the hand is "asleep". This symptom is known to physicians as "pins and needles paresthesias", or sometimes as "dysesthesia", which means an "unpleasant" sensation. One reason for this disorder is that sometimes the median nerve is entrapped in a channel near the wrist known as the "carpal tunnel". However, it is also possible to have similar symptoms when the disorder is higher up in the arm, or originates from problems in the neck. Shoulder pain and neck pain are symptoms which suggest that the issue may not be carpal tunnel syndrome, but rather a structural or qi problem in another area. Repetitive activities at work or at home, especially with the wrist flexed, can lead to this problem, as can the use of vibrating power tools. Increased fluid retention, such as during pregnancy or with certain drugs, can also result in carpal tunnel syndrome. Acupuncture and viral hepatitis Increasing numbers of people are being infected with the various hepatitis viruses. Hepatitis A, widespread in central and southern Asia, and which is transmitted fairly easily by poor hygiene and uncooked foods, as well as chopsticks and drinking glasses, is not usually fatal, but can result in unpleasant symptoms of fatigue, nausea, decreased appetite, and joint and muscle pain. Nonetheless, hepatitis A occasionally causes quick destruction of the liver and death. There are no effective treatments in Western medicine for hepatitis A, and so physicians address each of the symptoms symptomatically when they can. Hepatitis C is primarily transmitted by transfusion, but can also be transmitted sexually and by needle sharing. It also presents a significant risk to physicians, surgeons, nurses, and emergency and rescue workers, as with the other hepatitis subtypes. Chronic infection with hepatitis B, hepatitis B and D, and hepatitis C increases the likelihood of chronic and difficult to treat symptoms, including scarring of the liver, known to doctors as "cirrhosis". If enough of the liver is damaged by inflammation, liver failure will occur. This is fatal unless the patient has a liver transplant. Unusual and sometimes fatal complications of acute viral hepatitis include aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hypoglycemia, and polyarteritis. The risk appears to be higher if infection occurs at a very early age or if chronic liver disease is also present. Acupuncture and rheumatoid arthritis - Acupuncture therapy and traditional medicine prepared from different herbs and roots are individualized to each patient's presentation whether the diagnosis is osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis or other forms, such as autoimmune arthritis or the arthritis of lupus erythematosis or psoriasis. Knowing the Chinese pattern of the disorder can also help in choosing which form of Western drug therapy may work the most effectively, and acupuncture and Chinese medicinals may in some situations improve the response to Western drugs at lower dosages, as well as to address the side effects commonly seen with pharmaceutical drugs. Treating rheumatoid arthritis with acupuncture should be seen as a long term process, especially if the condition has been present for many years. Symptoms of autoimmune arthritis can also include tissues and organs outside of the joints, and this can lead to multiple specialists with often conflicting advice and treatment. Often there is considerable muscle weakness or problems with the tendons as a result of inability to exercise when pain levels are high. A physician skilled in Oriental medicine is most likely to be able to coordinate care and provide approaches which can address the multiple level nature of autoimmune disease. Please visit our site to obtain information on treatment with traditional Oriental medicine. Chinese medicine consultations on the internet - The Lunar Clinic is the first virtual Chinese medicine clinic exclusively for women. Many women can benefit from the preventative orientation of Oriental medicine and Chinese medicine in particular. Unfortunately, skilled and experienced consultation in Chinese dietary therapy and Chinese medicine is difficult to find in many areas of the country. For women who wish to investigate the value of traditional Chinese medicine in addressing problems of the various phases of life, a virtual clinic may be the answer. Magic and medicine - Truly, when a pain that has been present for years, and has been unresponsive to all of the surgical and pharmaceutical technology that modern medicine can apply, yet resolves by the insertion of a few dollars' worth of stainless steel needles, it does seem like "magic". This magic, in appearance, is reminiscent of the magical thinking of childhood, where enchantment and spells are accepted as part of the order of the world. As we grow up in the West, and certainly, as we become physicians and scientists, this view of the world is increasingly rejected. The "magic" of traditional medicines actually lie in the subtlety of the understanding that its practitioners have of the causes and treatments of disease. This is not hidden from view as an occult science would be, but rather it reflects an unlooked-for reality that requires a process of initiation, training and personal discipline to achieve. Visit our Home page Dr. L.B. Grotte, M.D., was the first physician in Ohio to be board certified in both acupuncture and Chinese herbology. He has studied Oriental medicine since 1972 and has practiced Oriental medicine in Cleveland for more than 27 years. Our small practice specializes in creating individualized treatment plans combining Western and Oriental methods. Call us at 440-461-7488 to ma