
College Station Texas Morbid Obesity Weight Loss Home Doctors Dr. Richard D. Alford Dr. Michael W. Steines Dr. Kimiye R. Cabrera Bariatrics What is Obesity Am I Obese What is Morbid Obesity Causes of Morbid Obesity Health Conditions Threats of Obesity Will Surgery Work Body Mass Index (BMI) Where do I Begin Options for Treatment Diets Have Not Worked How Does Surgery Work? How my GI Tract Works Is Surgery Right for Me? Surgery Is For Me Risks and Complications Preparation for Surgery Life After Surgery Bariatric Resources Paying for Surgery Everyone Needs Support Surgery Options Gastric Bypass Lap Band Gastric Sleeve Staff Contact Us Patient Forms FAQs FREE Seminars Before & After Pay Online St. Joseph Professional Building 2700 E. 29th Street Suite #105 Bryan , TX 77802 ph. 979-776-5631 fx. 979-776-6184 BBB Accredited Business Bariatrics » Surgery Is For Me » Life After Surgery » Bariatric Resources call 979-776-5631 Bariatric Resources You have found a resource for Morbid Obesity Weight Loss in College Station Texas with the General & Bariatric Surgical Associates. General & Bariatric Surgical Associates has been serving the Brazos Valley and College Station Texas for over 19 years;  all with very low complication rates and no fatalities.   Our goal is to provide weight loss surgery, gastric bypass, gastric sleeve, lap band and Morbid Obesity Weight Loss services to patients in and around College Station Texas with clinical outcomes that far exceed recognized standards. In the past 7 years, General & Bariatric Surgical Associates has taken a special interest in tackling the disease of obesity by offering Morbid Obesity Weight Loss among other Surgery Options . If you are interested in finding out more information about Morbid Obesity Weight Loss or weight loss surgery options in College Station Texas, please contact us.  We look forward to hearing from you!! Morbid Obesity Weight Loss news: HOUSE CALL: Weight-loss surgery can help eliminate diabetes - St. Louis Post-Dispatch For many people suffering from diabetes mellitus (type II), morbid obesity is the major underlying ... with BMIs between 30 and 40 if they have obesity-related illnesses such as diabetes. Other weight-loss surgeries are only recommended for people with ... Doctors Often Fail to Recommend Bariatric Surgery as Treatment for Morbid Obesity -My Bariatric Life - HealthCentral.com Poor Communication Between Doctors and the Weight-Loss Surgery Community Although bariatric surgery is the most successful treatment for morbid obesity, only one in ten who have weight-loss surgery do so because their doctor recommended it. Physicians ... Weight-Loss Surgery for a Healthier You - Coastal Courier Description: Free seminar for anyone who is considering weight-loss surgery. Attend one or all of the sessions, including information sessions (10 a.m. & 2 p.m.), "Morbid Obesity and Overall Wellness" (11:10 a.m.), "Morbid Obesity and Obstructive Sleep ... Obesity Now Costs Americans More In HealthCare Spending Than Smoking - Forbes You may also not know that the reform law includes incentives to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries to get them into a primary care doctor to discuss and execute a weight loss ... Obesity has risen a full 34% since 1960 while morbid obesity ... Surgery May Improve Chronic Health Conditions - The Business Journal Numerous studies of patients with morbid obesity have shown that many of their chronic medical conditions improved or resolved after they received bariatric (weight loss) surgery to treat morbid obesity. Researchers reviewed the outcomes of more ... College Station Texas news: Tuition vote splits Texas A&M System Board of Regents - Bryan College Station Eagle Meanwhile, as was expected, regents held tuition flat at the flagship College Station campus while approving increases at all the other System universities that requested an increase. Only Texas A&M-San Antonio joined the College Station campus ... Owls to open 2013 football season at Texas A&M - Houston Chronicle Rice will open the 2013 football season against Texas A&M in College Station, marking the first meeting between the two schools since the breakup of the Southwest Conference. The game will be played Aug. 31. “Rice and Texas A&M have a deep tradition on ... Texas A&M and Baylor Face Off in Pivotal Series - KBTX.com COLLEGE STATION, Texas – Olsen Field at Blue Bell Park and Baylor Ballpark will be the venues for one of college baseball’s most important series this weekend as the No. 2 Texas A&M baseball team will face Big 12-leading No. 6 Baylor in a ... Power Surge Lifts Aggie baseball over Texas Tech 7-2 - KBTX.com COLLEGE STATION, Texas – Senior first baseman Jacob House connected on a pair of home runs Saturday afternoon as the ninth-ranked Texas A&M baseball team powered past Texas Tech 7-2 in front of 4,775 fans at Olsen Field at Blue Bell Park. Texas A&M raises fees, tuition at some campuses - KENS 5 COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) -- Texas A&M University regents have raised some student fees and tuition at a few campuses. The A&M System Board of Regents voted 6-3 to raise fees in four areas and tuition at some of the university system's campuses. Contact Us To contact GBSA, fill out the form below. Name Phone Number E-Mail Address Interested In: General Weight Loss Surgery Gastric Bypass LAP BAND Gastric Sleeve Other Comments Submit Copyright 2009-2012 General and Bariatric Surgical Associates. All rights reserved. | Terms Of Use | P