Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 23 Feb 2011 13:35:22 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "54f716855ed3cb1:2213"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 11:49:37 GMT
Connection: close

Routine 4 -Looking Backwards - Exercises Illustrated,Chinese qigong, styles, methods,  practice, health, TCM ,natural therapy. Old TCM Website A/H1N1 flu TCM TCM News TCM And Life Diseases Inquiry TCM Answers TCM Encyclopaedia Video Gallery Literature Service And Products TCM Theory TCM Diagnosis TCM Helps On-Line Prevention And Rehabilitation Science Of Chinese Materia Medica TCM Prescription Sino-Western Medicine Joint TCM & Diseases TCM Natural Therapy Magazine TCM Activities Cases TCM Group TCM Search Tool Contact Us About Us Site Map Taking Chinese Medicine Diabetes Acne(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Aging Allergic rhinitis Anaemia(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Arthritis Asthma Bronchitis Cancer Cataract Chronic hepatitis Cervical spondylopatyh Colitis(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Constipation Depression Duodenal ulcer Eczema Eye care Fatigue Gallstone Glaucoma Gout Hay fever Heart diseases Hemorrhoid High Blood Pressure High cholesterol Impotence Insomnia Irritability kidney stone(TCM) Lumbago(TCM) Menopause(TCM) Menstrual disorder(TCM) Migraine headache(TCM) Obesity Osteo-arthrosis(TCM) periarthritis(TCM) Prostate disease(TCM) Psoriasis Insomnia(TCM) Rheumatoid arthritis Sciatica(TCM) Skin care(TCM) Spur(TCM) Stomach-ache(TCM) Thyroid disease(TCM) Tinnitus(TCM) Vertigo Parkinson(TCM) TCM Reflexology Asthma(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cervical spine disease Children's poor appe Common cold Constipation Diabetes Diarrhoea Frigidity Hemorrhoid Heart diseases Hypertension Headache(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Impotence Insomnia Irregular Menstruation Lumber muscle strain neurodermatitis Menopause(TCM PREVENTION) Obesity Parkinson Disease periarthritis(TCM PREVENTION) Prostate disease Psoriasis Rheumatoid arthritis Sinusitis Tinnitus(TCM PREVENTION) TCM Acupuncture Acute mastadenitis Sprain of soft tissues of the limbs Acute lumbar sprain Lumbago Rheumatoid arthritis Gonitis Thecal cyst External humeral epicondylitis Scapulohumeral periarthritis Stiff neck Dysfunction of temporomandibular joint Cervical spondylopathy Schizophrenia Globus hystericus Sequela of apoplexy Angioneurotic headache Intercostal neuralgia Sciatica Peripheral facial paralysis Diabetes Hyperthyroidism Seminal emission Prostatitis Prostatitis Retention of urine Urinary tract stones Infection of urinary tract Primary thrombocytopenic purpura Leukocytopenia Biliary tract infection and cholelithiasis Gastroptosis Gastric and duodenal ulcer Chronic gastritis Acute gastritis Coronary heart disease Arrhythmia Vomiting Toothache Tennis Elbow Painful Hemorrhoids Painful Elevation of the Arm Intestinal Worms Hysteria Epistaxis--Nosebleed Cystitis and Urethritis Coldness of the Extremities Car and Air Sickness Amenorrhea Acute Optic Neuritis Acute Lumbar pain Abdominal Pain Allergies Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Backache Colitis Constipation Depression Emotional instabilityaffective disoroers Gastro-intestinal disorders Gynecological disorders Headache Hypertension (high blood pressure) Infertility Insomnia Lumbar disc syndrome Menopause Migraine Neck Problnms Numbness Obesity Paralysis and paresis Parkinsonism Psoriasis Sciatica Sexual impotence Sinusitis (cgronic) Smoking Stroke residuals Tinnitus Trigeminal neuralgia TCM Herbal Tea Hypertension Formula Anti-Cancer Formula Health Care Formula Arthritis Care Formula Skin Revitalizing Formula Slim Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cholesterol/Eyes Care Formula Diabetes Formula Migraine Formula Constipation Formula Detox/Purify Formula Prostate Care Formula Male Fertility Formula Female Fertility Formula Menopause Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Menstruation Formula Sciatica Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Skin Disease Formula Insomnia Formula Lumbago Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Sinusitis Formula Swelling Care Formula Tinnitus Formula Stone Relief Formula Thyroids Formula Stomach & ulcer Formula Colitis Care Formula Asthma Formula Romance Formula Haircome Formula Cardiovascular Formula Web Encyclopaedia Answers Disease Acupoints Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs Joining TCM Group Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs All Acupoints Here: Home -> Qigong -> Ba Duan Jin -> Step-by-Step Descriptions of the Routines -> The Exercises Illustrated >Information Routine 4 -Looking Backwards From: TCM_xiaozhong Time: 12/9/2008 3:44:00 PM Acupuncture: TCM to the world a breakthrough "national essence of acupuncture," the story in the United States the special use of acupuncture "national essence of acupuncture," the story in the United States the special use of acupuncture Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department [PDF]Routine 4 -Looking Backwards Looking Backwards to Prevent Sickness and Strain 1. (Continue from the previous routine) Straighten the knees slowly to stand up straight, with the feet apart. Straighten the arms, with the palms facing back and the fingers pointing down. Look straight ahead  [Fig. 28] . Continue to turn the arms fully outward, with the palms out. Turn the head left to the back. Pause in this position, looking back to the left [Fig. 29] . 2. Relax the waist and hips. Move the body weight slowly downward, the knees slightly bent. Turn the arms inward, press the palms down at the sides, with the fingers pointing forward. Look straight ahead [Fig. 30] . Same as movement 1, but in the reverse direction [Figs.31-32] . Same as movement 2 [Fig. 33] . This routine should be done three times each, left and right. Slightly bend the knees during the final repetition, and move the hands to a position in front of the abdomen, palms up and fingers pointing to each other. Look straight ahead [Fig. 34] . [Key points] Keep the head erect and high, and the shoulders down. When turning the  head, do not turn the upper body. When turning the arms, pull back the shoulders. [Common mistakes] Upper body tilted back, head and arms not turned enough or the head turning too quickly. [Corrections] Pull in the chin, and make sure to tum the head and arms to the required extent. [ Functions and effects ] This routine is good for combating disorders related to the heart, liver, spleen, lungs and kidneys, as well as stress resulting from anger, grief, worry and fear, which harm one's health from the inside. The stretching movements help to exercise the organs in the chest and abdominal cavities. Looking backwards stimulates such points as Dazhui on the neck and Shuxue along the spine, enhancing their prevention and healing effects. The routine also helps to improve the pulling strength of the muscle groups of the neck and shoulders, improves the movements of the neck and the muscles around the eyes, thus preventing fatigue of the eye muscles, and diseases and injuries of the shoulders, neck and back. In addition, it improves the circulation of the blood around the neck and brain, so as to disburden the central nervous system. [PDF]Routine 4 -Looking Backwards Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Routine 3 Routine 5 Extensive Reading Foot massage--- self-care massage video TCM inquiry: the most consummate disease database in our country. TCM knows: health life should be talked freely! TCM and life: life-cultivation and nourishment of face Qigong is a kind of natural therapy which is good for improving human body’s immunity Mild Reminder Ten days Qigong Study Tour Science of prescriptions: science of prescription-wipping through the old to bring forth Diagnostics: diagnostics- TCM magic treasure！ Sino-western medicine joint: Sino-western medicine joint-obvious drug effects Life-cultivation and rehabilitation: good place of providing health physique Customized Tours Design your own decision with our help to meet your unique interests.You don't have to compromise,just do exactly what you want to do!we will arrange the satisfied plan according to your demand.It includes the following aspects: Study Tours Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Name: EMail: Theme: Questions: Special Recommendation New Feeling - One Million Women Globally have Witnessed its Magical Effect of Slimming! Study Tours Nourishing yin and invigorating the kidney Hardness and confidence begin from Kidney Tonic Pills Yangshuo China Oriental Discovery TCM Service Questionnaire on Service Platform TCM Search Tool TCM expert group Service Platform for Patient Health Archive Questionnaire on TCM education Related Reading Gongfu and Painting Tour Guilin Health Tours Acupuncture E-magzine General Health E-magzine. Taiji for Health Ba Duan Jin Copyright©2003,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department About Us | TCM | Reflexology | Acupuncture | Taiji | Qigong | Herbal Tea | Products | Advertise | Contact us | TCM Union | Site Map Tel: +86-773-5820588 Fax: +86-773-5845295 E-mail: tcmadv