<http://gastricbypassfacts.com/?p=388>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Bariatric Surgery Is Simply Weight Loss Surgery By Another Name Home Gastric Bypass Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Is Growing Fast Bariatric Surgery Or Weight Loss Surgery? Biliopancreatic Diversion Meeting The Cost Of Bariatric Surgery Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy Stomach Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy For The Super Obese Sleeve Gastrectomy With Duodenal Switch Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Gastric Bypass – Before and After Pictures The Father of Gastric Bypass Surgery The Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Estimating The Cost Of Gastric Bypass Surgery Insurance Cover For Gastric Bypass Surgery Will Insurers Ease Funding For Surgery? Life After Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Bypass And Your Expectations Vitamins And Minerals After Gastric Bypass Drinking And Gastric Bypass Surgery Do Not Mix Environmental Factors And The Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Surgery Risks Gastric Bypass Risk And Binge Eating Post Operative Gastric Bypass Complications Gastric Bypass Surgery And The Digestive System The Carnie Wilson Gastric Bypass The Renee Williams Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Questions How Does The Sleeve Gastrectomy Work? Gastric Bypass – Solving A Manmade Problem? How Does A Gastric Bypass Promote Weight Loss? A 40% Risk Of Gastric Bypass Complications? Is The Mini Gastric Bypass An Ideal Solution? Lap Band Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Banding The Theory Of Gastric Banding Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery The Adjustable Gastric Band The Newest And Safest Option Laparoscopic Gastric Band Is A Popular Choice Are You Suitable For Gastric Lap Banding? The Cost Of Lap Band Surgery Covering Your Lap Band Surgery Cost Lap Band Insurance Coverage The Risks Of Gastric Lap Band Surgery Problems Of Laparoscopic Gastric Banding The Risks Of Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery Lap Band Success Rate Lap Band Surgery To Cure Morbid Obesity Is Lap Banding The Answer For Obese Teenagers? Is Gastric Banding Simply Cosmetic Surgery? Gastric Band Surgery Is Not Always Advisable Losing Weight After Adjustable Gastric Banding Gastric Band Surgery Or Diet And Exercise Obesity Obesity Articles Morbid Obesity Morbid Obesity Is A Growing Problem Morbid Obesity Treatment Morbid Obesity And Getting The Help You Need An Obese Person Simply Eats Too Much Obesity Statistics | Obesity Rates and Graphs Psychological Treatments Improve Success Rates The Connection Between Leptin And Obesity The Failure Of Diet As A Solution For Obesity The First Non-Prescription Obesity Pills Obesity and Depression in America The Role Of Fast Food In Obesity The True Cost of the Obesity Epidemic Obesity Surgery Is Not Just About Losing Weight Obesity Questions Are You Simply Overweight Or Clinically Obese? Why Am I Obese And Just What Causes Obesity? When Does Obesity Become Life-Threatening? Are Genetics Another Way To Explain Obesity? Child Obesity The Dangers Of Childhood Obesity 9 Steps To Tackling Childhood Obesity Child Obesity Statistics Child Obesity Surveys Growing Teen Obesity Means More Surgery The Advisability Of Surgery In Teens Obesity At Young Ages Is Common Pure Fruit Juice To Lower Obesity In Children The Problem Of Child Obesity And School Menus Bariatric Surgery Is Simply Weight Loss Surgery By Another Name Many of us are familiar with the terms Gastric Bypass Surgery and Weight Loss Surgery but the term Bariatric Surgery is one that you may not have come across before. The term bariatrics comes from the Greek “baro” (weight) and the suffix “-iatrics” (a branch of medicine – as in geriatrics) and first came into use just over 40 years ago when it was felt that the treatment of obesity, together with the study of its causes and prevention, warranted its own branch of medicine. Today bariatrics encompasses all aspects of medicine associated with obesity including what is more properly termed bariatric surgery. In addition, surgeons performing weight loss operations will often prefer to use the title of bariatric surgeon and many are members of The American Society for Bariatric Surgery (ASBS), which was formed some 20 years ago and which represents the largest group of obesity specialists to be found anywhere in the world. Despite its relatively short history, bariatric surgery has become a major component of the healthcare system due in no small part to the explosion of obesity across the Western world. Literally millions of Americans are classed as being clinically obese today (at last count the figure was put at over 72 million) and a significant proportion of these people are sufficiently overweight to be categorized as morbidly obese and candidates for bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery is also a quite unique field of surgery in that obesity brings with it a number of medical conditions including diabetes, hypertension, sleep apnea, urinary incontinence, liver disease, and arthritis all of which can potentially be cured through bariatric surgery. More in its favor however is the fact that, at present, it is the only real solution to the problem of severe obesity. While most doctors will start patients on a program of diet and exercise to cure their weight problem this is being seen by many today as nothing more than the “politically correct” thing to do and a required step in a process that will ultimately lead to surgery if a satisfactory solution is to be found. The traditional route of diet and exercise simply doesn’t work in the vast majority of cases and many specialists in the field are fast coming to the conclusion that dieting can actually do more harm than good in the long run. Similarly, drug treatment to assist in weight loss is also proving less than effective for most patients and, although new drugs are under development and testing, most doctors again feel that this is not the answer to the problem. At the end of the day, despite the risks and complications, bariatric surgery works and, for many patients, this is the route that they want to take. This said, bariatric surgery is certainly not an easy way out for people suffering from morbid obesity and the surgery itself is just the start of what will become a dramatic and permanent change to your lifestyle. In particular, it will be necessary to adopt an entirely new eating regime following surgery and patients need to follow what is often referred to as a bariatric surgery diet. This takes some getting used to and, while it is not easy for many people, bariatric eating is very much the secret to continued weight loss success. As technology advances, surgical techniques improve and surgeons gain experience there can be little doubt that bariatric surgery will continue to grow. Previous: Bariatric Surgery Is Growing At A Phenomenal Rate Next: Biliopancreatic Diversion Interesting Posts Are Genetics Simply Another Excuse To Explain Obesity? Gastric bypass surgery is proving to be a lifesaver for many people as the problem of obesity sweeps across much of the western world but its biggest... Causes Of Obesity | Why Am I Obese And Just What Causes Obesity? Most people will tell you that obesity in quite simply a case of eating too much food and not taking enough exercise. But can it really be as simple... The Connection Between Leptin And Obesity In many of the world's industrialized countries today obesity has become an extremely common condition. Indeed, in the United States, which has the... Are You Simply Overweight Or Clinically Obese? We are all familiar with being overweight and many of us will have experienced being overweight. Many of us are indeed more or less permanently... The First Non-Prescription Obesity Pills Have Arrived After a long wait the United States Food and Drug Administration has finally approved a diet pill which can be purchased over-the-counter and which... Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery Laparoscopic surgery (also referred to as keyhole, bandaid or minimally invasive surgery) was first pioneered around 100 years ago with the first... Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Gastric bypass is the most common operation for weight loss in the United States with approximately 140,000 surgeries being carried out annually. Childhood Obesity Statistics Obesity statistics from around the world make depressing reading these days,but when you turn your attention to childhood obesity statistics the... Copyright © Gas