Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 13:56:58 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "a49646a4eaccd1:1f50"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 14:07:52 GMT
Connection: close

Diabetes and Pregnancy Home Diabetes Guides Most visited What is diabetes? Diabetes symptoms Signs of diabetes Causes of diabetes Effects of diabetes Newly diagnosed Diabetes management Diabetes prevention Diabetes research Diabetes test Diabetes in South Asians Diabetes types Type 1 diabetes Type 2 diabetes Gestational diabetes Pre diabetes Diabetes Support Visit the Diabetes Forum Blood glucose Blood glucose meters Blood glucose diary Blood sugar levels How to test your blood glucose Hypoglycemia HbA1c High blood sugar symptoms Insulin Insulin resistance Medication Health issues Diabetes in pregnancy Diabetic foot Diabetic nephropathy Diabetic neuropathy Diabetic retinopathy Ketones See all guides Food & Recipes Diabetes food recipes Diabetes and alcohol Diabetic chocolate Diabetic food Food diary Food exchange calculator Which foods help diabetes? Talk about food Low carb forum Non low-carb forum Diabetes food forum Diet Diabetes diet Carbohydrates Carb counting Low carb diet Vegan diet Vegetarian diet Exercise and Fitness BMI calculator Diabetes and exercise Diabetes and fitness Weight loss Forum Diabetes Shop myLifestyle Kids Donate Insurance Professionals Search  Diabetes.co.uk and the forum: e.g.  Low-carb, Ketones, Type 2 Site Contents Diabetes > Pregnancy and Diabetes > Index Login Join the Forum Diabetes and Pregnancy Be well prepared for your pregnancy. Pregnancy and Diabetes Blood Glucose Levels During Pregnancy Diabetes During Pregnancy Preparing for Pregnancy Diabetes and Breastfeeding Pregnancy and After the Birth Join the Newsletter Forum updates,  previews &  community news. Explore Diabetes Information Diabetes Types Pre-Diabetes Diabetes Tools and Calculators Diabetes Events Blood Glucose and Diabetes Care Insulin Diabetes Medication Managing Diabetes Complications Diabetes, Exercise and Fitness Diabetes and Emotions Diabetes and Sex Diabetes and Travel Pets and Diabetes Diabetes in South Asians Diabetes Features Real Life Stories Diabetes Education Diabetes Research Diabetes and NHS Healthcare Professionals Pregnancy and Diabetes Up to 3% of women may be affected by gestational diabetes during pregnancy It is estimated that between 2% and 3% percent of 
	   pregnant women are affected by gestational diabetes during pregnancy. If the mother’s 
	    body cannot produce sufficient insulin to overcome this,  diabetes in 
	    pregnancy can develop. In the Pregnancy section: Blood sugar levels during pregnancy Diabetes during your pregnancy Diabetes and preparing for pregnancy Diabetes and breastfeeding Pregnancy and after your birth Type 1 diabetes and pregnancy People with type 1 diabetes should aim  to achieve tight control of their diabetes prior to and throughout their  pregnancy. To help you to meet the target level of diabetes control, you may be  put onto an insulin pump, if you are not on one already, and your health team  should provide plenty of support. Pregnancy Transcript You may already have diabetes, such as type 1 or type 2  diabetes, before starting your pregnancy or you may develop gestational diabetes  during your pregnancy. Gestational diabetes is a form or diabetes that can develop  specifically during pregnancy and usually disappears again after pregnancy has  finished. See our video on gestational diabetes for more info about this type  of diabetes. Blood sugar control is especially important during pregnancy  to ensure your baby is healthy. The target HbA1c for mothers in pregnancy is  6.1% (43 mmol/mol). This can be quite a challenging target, which may require dedication  to reach. If you have  diabetes before your pregnancy then it’s best to prepare for pregnancy before  you try to conceive. Preparation may include: Undergoing a health assessment Attending a preconception clinic Achieving the target HbA1c for pregnancy Being vaccinated against illnesses such as  chickenpox and rubella Begin taking folic acid Depending on your type of diabetes, you may or may not need  medication. If you have type 1 diabetes, you may be put onto an insulin  pump to help you achieve tight diabetes control. If you have type 2 diabetes,  you may or may not need medication. It is possible that you may be put onto  insulin or have your medication changed during pregnancy. If you develop gestational diabetes, you may or may not need  medication depending on your blood sugar levels. Having diabetes can increase the chances of problems  developing for your baby such as: Having a larger baby Abnormal development of organs Higher likelihood of the baby developing  diabetes later in life Stillbirth or miscarriage These risks can be reduced with good control of blood sugar  levels through your pregnancy. People with diabetes are more at risk of the following  difficulties during pregnancy: Pre-eclampsia - very high blood pressure Development of retinopathy - particularly if  blood pressure rises significantly Again, achieving good control of your diabetes can help to  reduce the risks. Some of the risks may come across as quite scary but  expecting mothers with diabetes are well looked after by health teams. You can  expect to receive regular checks throughout your pregnancy and access to  specialists. If you have questions or any concerns, they will be happy to  help you. Transcript Type 2 diabetes and pregnancy Pregnancy typically  places higher demands for insulin than normal and therefore it is quite common  for people with type 2 diabetes to  be put onto insulin during their pregnancy. Whether you are put onto insulin or  not, you should receive plenty of help from your health team to ensure your  diabetes is well controlled through your pregnancy. Gestational diabetes and pregnancy Gestational diabetes  is a form of diabetes that develops during pregnancy if the body cannot fully  cope with the additional insulin demands of both the mother and baby. The first  line of treatment for gestational diabetes is through diet and exercise,  however, diabetes tablets and insulin may be needed if blood glucose levels  remain high. Read more about the  symptoms, risk factors and treatment for gestational diabetes Target blood glucose  levels before and during pregnancy The target HbA1c (a measure of long term diabetic control) for  people with diabetes prior to and during pregnancy is 6.1% (or 43 mmol/mol). Risks for your baby  from diabetes during pregnancy The following risks  are more common as a result of diabetes: Abnormal development,  particularly with the baby’s heart Heart and breathing  problems shortly after birth Stillbirth or death  shortly after the birth Developing diabetes  later in life These risks can be  reduced with good diabetes control. Risks for a mother  from diabetes in pregnancy Raised blood sugar  levels during pregnancy increases your chances of having a larger baby, which  could mean the need to have an induced labour or a caesarean section delivery. The chances of suffering a miscarriage are also higher with diabetes. Similarly to the risks  for your baby, the risks for you can also be reduced with well controlled  diabetes. Diabetes and  preconception care If you have diabetes  prior to being pregnant, it is highly recommended to prepare for your pregnancy  by ensuring you receive preconception care. Make an appointment to discuss the  best preparation for your pregnancy. Blood glucose control  during pregnancy Hypoglycemia (low blood sugar levels) and hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels) are both likely to  happen during pregnancy. Keeping your blood  sugar levels well managed is essential to reduce the chances of complications  developing for you or your baby. Explore Pregnancy and Diabetes Diabetes and the elderly Diabetes and weight loss Diabetes and skin care Diabetes and sleep Join the Diabetes Newsletter Do you have questions about pregnancy? Try the Diabetes Forum . diabetes news Patients taking atorvastatin twice as likely to report muscle pain - Wed, 28 Mar 2012 Diabetics at greater risk of chronic kidney disease - Wed, 28 Mar 2012 Sacked diabetic threatens to take rail bosses to discrimination tribunal - Wed, 28 Mar 2012 More News Join us Follow @Diabetescouk Sitemap · Our Mission · About · Advertise · Contact Disclaimer · Privacy · Jobs · Links · References · Contributors · Newsletter Archive Get a badge · Diabetes on Facebook · Diabetes on Twitter Read the Diabetes Blog © 2012 Diabetes.co.uk - The Global Diabetes 