<19.8 12.5-18 [28-40] 2.3 [5] 0.5 [1]/week Normal weight 19.8-26.0 11.5-16 [25-35] 1.6 [3.5] 0.4 [1]/week Overweight 26.0-29.0 7-11.5 [15-25] 0.9 [2] 0.3 [0.7]/week Severely obese >29.0 ~ 6.8 [15]* --- --- * The recommended
                weight gain for morbidly obese women is at least 6.0 kg
                (accounting for the products of conceptus). This recognizes that
                many gain less weight with good pregnancy outcomes. Adapted from the recommendations of the Subcommittee on
                Nutritional Status and Weight Gain During Pregnancy, Food and
                Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine: Nutrition During
                Pregnancy. National Academy Press, Washington, D.C., 1990. DIABETES IN PREGNANCY Insulin is the primary anabolic hormone of pregnancy. Early in
        gestation, progesterone in concert with estrogen has a direct tropic
        effect on the pancreatic b cells. Postprandial insulin concentrations
        rise in the presence of normal glucose tolerance, and contribute to an
        anabolic process of accretion of maternal subcutaneous fat and adipocyte
        enlargement. Animal models also demonstrate hepatic glycogen
        accumulation and an increase in lean body mass. Insulin sensitivity appears to decline starting after 12-14 weeks of
        gestation, with progression to severe insulin resistance during the 3rd
        trimester (303), under the influence of rising placental hormones
        including human chorionic somatomammotropin, placental growth hormone
        variant, cortisol, prolactin, and progesterone. Marked hyperinsulinemia
        creates an anabolic state of maternal fuel storage during the fed state,
        which is offset by the catabolic effects of these insulin antagonists in
        the fasted state. Insulin resistance at the skeletal muscle and
        hepatocyte prolongs the accessibility of nutrients within the plasma
        compartment after feeding to allow a rapid transfer of stored nutrients
        to the fetal compartment in the second half of gestation, corresponding
        with the time of a geometric increase in the fetal-placental mass (304).
        This system is disturbed when insulin secretion is inadequate, as with
        diabetes mellitus. All of the plasma substrates are affected, including
        fasting and postprandial glucose, FFA's, triglycerides, cholesterol, and
        branched-chain amino acids (305,306). These metabolic disturbances
        provide increased fuels to the fetal compartment, resulting in fetal
        hyperinsulinemia which mediates the adverse effects of diabetes mellitus
        on the offspring (307-10). The timing of the metabolic insult predicts
        the adverse outcome ("fuel-mediated teratogenesis"), with both
        perinatal and long-term consequences (307,308). Complications Disturbances in maternal metabolism at the time of conception
        increases the risk of congenital anomalies and spontaneous abortion
        (307,309,311). In patients with fair to good control at conception, the
        incidence of birth defects is approximately 5% (312,313), two times
        greater than that in the non-diabetic population. Further worsening of
        glycemic control is associated with dramatic increases in malformation
        rates (312). The risk of spontaneous abortion is directly proportional
        to the glycohemoglobin level in early pregnancy (312). Optimization of
        control prior to conception may reduce the congenital malformation rate
        to that of the non-diabetic population (314,315). Macrosomia (birth weight above the 90th percentile for gestational
        age) is a frequent complication of both pregestational and gestational
        diabetes mellitus. Neonates may have almost twice as much adiposity as
        offspring of normal mothers (316), proportional to maternal metabolic
        control (317). The truncal obesity and asymmetric fetal growth
        associated with diabetes mellitus increase the risk of shoulder dystocia,
        birth trauma, and operative delivery. Fetal islet cell function, with b
        cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia and amniotic fluid hyperinsulinemia, is
        associated with maternal metabolic control, particularly that found in
        the second trimester (318,319). Once b cell hyperplasia occurs, the
        subsequent fetal hyperinsulinemia may further augment fetal growth in
        the absence of elevated maternal nutrients (318). Maternal postload
        glucose peaks may be blunted by exaggerated fetal glucose siphoning,
        which may cause false negative oral glucose tolerance test results
        (320). Early diagnosis and intervention are therefore critical to avoid
        complications in the offspring. Intrauterine fetal growth restriction is
        now rarely seen except in pregnancies complicated by hypertension or
        nephropathy (321). There is an increase in the prevalence of obesity in the offspring of
        diabetic mothers (322). A direct correlation between maternal metabolic
        control and the development of childhood and adolescent obesity was seen
        in the Pima Indian study (323,324). Amniotic fluid insulin levels as a
        measure of stimulated fetal islet function also correlate positively
        with childhood obesity.(325). Both animal and human studies demonstrate that disturbances in islet
        function during intrauterine life predispose the individual to impaired
        glucose tolerance (322). Pettitt et al examined offspring born to women
        from 3 risk groups: those who had diabetes during pregnancy
        ("diabetic"), those with a genetic predisposition to diabetes
        who had normal glucose tolerance during pregnancy but developed diabetes
        subsequently ("prediabetic"), and those who never developed
        diabetes ("nondiabetic"). Controlling for other confounding
        variables, Type 2 diabetes mellitus was present in 45.5% of those age
        20-24 who were offspring of diabetic pregnancies, 8.6% of offspring of
        prediabetic mothers, and 1.4% of offspring of nondiabetic mothers.(326).
        Amniotic fluid insulin levels as a measure of fetal hyperinsulinemia are
        a strong predictor of impaired glucose tolerance in adolescence (327).
        These studies demonstrate the profound impact of an adverse metabolic
        environment on a genetic predisposition. Diagnosis of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus According to NHANES III, 2.9-17.3% of nonpregnant women age 20-49
        have impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus (328).
        Pregestational diabetes mellitus complicates up to 0.5% of pregnancies
        (329), although the prevalence of diabetes in younger age groups has
        dramatically increased in the last 10 years. Gestational diabetes
        mellitus (GDM), defined as "glucose intolerance with onset or first
        recognition during pregnancy," occurs in approximately 4% of
        pregnancies, with higher rates in at risk populations (330,331). The
        diagnosis does not exclude the possibility that unrecognized diabetes
        predated the pregnancy. Patients with GDM demonstrate features found in
        patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, including attenuated first phase
        and subsequent insulin release, adjusted for the level of insulin
        resistance (332,333). Therefore, the progressive insulin resistance of
        pregnancy reveals women at high risk for the development of Type 2
        diabetes mellitus. Women with GDM are generally asymptomatic, and detection requires an
        active screening program (Table 4). Low risk individuals, who do not
        need to be screened, include women with all of the following
        characteristics: member of a racial/ethnic group with a low prevalence
        of GDM; age < 25 years; normal weight (BMI < 25 kg/m2); no family
        history of diabetes; and no personal history of abnormal glucose
        metabolism or poor obstetric outcome. Those at particularly high risk
        for developing GDM (marked obesity, strong family history of Type 2
        diabetes mellitus, personal history of GDM, glucose intolerance, or
        glucosuria) should be screened as soon as they present pregnant to allow
        early intervention (334). If GDM is not found, testing should be
        repeated at 24-28 weeks or at any time the patient develops symptoms
        suggestive of hyperglycemia. All others should be screened at 24-28
        weeks' gestational age. The current recommendation is a 50 gram oral
        glucose challenge test without regard to the time of day or time of the
        last meal (335). Women with a one hour plasma glucose value > 140
        mg/dl (7.8 mmol/L) require definitive evaluation with an oral glucose
        tolerance test. This involves approximately 14-18.5% of pregnant
        women,(330) with a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 87%.
        Decreasing the screening threshold to 130 mg/dl (7.2 mmol/L), increases
        the need for oral glucose tolerance tests to 20-25% of all pregnant
        women, but also increases the sensitivity to more than 90%. Blood
        glucose meters are inadequate for the screening process as they carry an
        intratest variability of 10-15% (334,336). TABLE
                4. Screening Strategy for the Detection of GDM GDM risk assessment --
                Should be ascertained at the first prenatal visit. Low risk Blood glucose testing is not
                routinely required if all of the following characteristics are
                present: Member of an ethnic group with a low prevalence of GDM No known diabetes in first degree relatives Age < 25 years Weight normal before pregnancy (BMI < 26 kg/m2) No history of abnormal glucose metabolism No history of poor obstetric outcome Average risk Defined as a patient outside one or
                more of the above characteristics. Perform blood glucose testing at 24-28 weeks using either: Two step procedure: 50 gm glucose challenge test (GCT)*
                    followed by a diagnostic oral glucose tolerance test in
                    those meeting the threshold value in the GCT. One step procedure: Diagnostic oral glucose tolerance test
                    performed on all subjects. High risk Defined as a patient with one or more
                of the following characteristics: marked obesity (BMI >40 kg/m2) strong family history of Type 2 diabetes mellitus personal history of GDM, glucose intolerance, or
                    glucosuria Perform blood glucose testing as soon as feasible, using the
                procedures described above. If GDM is not diagnosed, blood glucose testing should be
                    repeated at 24-28 weeks, or at any time a patient has
                    symptoms or signs that are suggestive of hyperglycemia. * 50 gram oral
                glucose load administered without regard to time of day or time
                of last meal. Venous plasma glucose is measured 1 hour later. A
                value of > 140 mg/dl [7.8 mmol/L] indicates the need for a
                full diagnostic glucose tolerance test. Adapted and reprinted with permission by Metzger BE: Summary and
                recommendations of the Fourth International Workshop Conference
                on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus. Diabetes Care 21 (Suppl2):
                B161, 1998. A positive screening test is followed by a 100-gram oral glucose
        tolerance test. The original O'Sullivan and Mahan criteria for the
        diagnosis of GDM were developed to identify a population of pregnant
        women at high risk for the subsequent development of diabetes mellitus
        (337). Later modifications to the criteria were based on alterations in
        the glucose assay techniques. The current Carpenter and Coustan criteria
        (2 values at or above: fasting glucose 95 mg/dl, 1-hour 180 mg/dl,
        2-hour 155 mg/dl, 3-hour 140 mg/dl) were adopted by the American
        Diabetes Association (335) because of evidence of perinatal morbidities
        similar to those found in pregnancies diagnosed with the earlier NDDG
        criteria (338-40). An international study funded by the NIH is currently
        underway to identify criteria using a 2-hour 75 gram glucose tolerance
        test to diagnose GDM based on perinatal outcome measures. Maternal Complications of Pregestational Diabetes Mellitus Diabetes in pregnancy is classified based on the severity of the
        metabolic disturbance and the presence and severity of maternal
        microvascular, neurologic, and macrovascular complications. These
        identify perinatal risk. In addition, pregnancy may alter the
        progression of these complications. Baseline retinopathic, renal, and
        neurologic function should be determined. Those identified with
        complications should be counseled regarding their perinatal risk and
        undergo intensive monitoring throughout pregnancy and postpartum using a
        team approach of specialists. Retinopathy may progress during pregnancy secondary to poor glycemic
        control prior to pregnancy, rapid improvement in control during
        pregnancy, and concomitant hypertension (341,342). The Diabetes Control
        and Complications Trial (DCCT) demontrated that pregnancy itself adds
        independently to the risk of retinopathy progression (343). Patients
        with diabetes lack the autoregulation of retinal vessel constriction
        which normally protects the retina from the hyperdynamic changes of
        pregnancy (344). In addition, the potent angiogenic factor, fibroblast
        growth factor-2, is elevated in the second and third trimesters and
        correlate with glycohemoglobin levels (345). Retinopathy may continue to
        progress into the postpartum period (343,344,346), before it regresses. Patients with diabetes mellitus have a four-fold increased risk of
        pregnancy-induced hypertension or preeclampsia (347), which may
        accelerate nephropathy. Other factors which increase the risk of
        nephropathy progression include pregnancy-induced glomerular
        hyperfiltration, increased transmission of systemic pressure to the
        glomerulus in the presence of hypertension, increase in urinary tract
        infections, vesicoureteral reflux and physiological hydronephrosis, and
        inability to use ACE inhibitor therapy in pregnancy secondary to risk of
        fetal anephrism. Patients with mild diabetic nephropathy (microalbuminuria,
        proteinuria, and creatinine <1.4 mg/dl) generally exhibit a transient
        worsening during pregnancy (348,349). Patients with more severe degrees
        of nephropathy may have an accelerated decline in renal function with
        pregnancy (350,351). The prevalence of diabetic neuropathy increases with the duration of
        diabetes mellitus, with rates up to 50% after 25 years. Autonomic
        neuropathy may adversely impact on maternal morbidity and pregnancy
        outcome (352,353). The irregular gastric emptying of gastroparesis
        causes erratic blood sugar control from a mismatch of insulin
        administration with the nutrient delivery to the small intestine.
        Postprandial emesis may be exacerbated by the "morning
        sickness" of early pregnancy and later by the mechanical
        compression of the stomach by an enlarging uterus. This can lead to
        intractable vomiting with maternal and fetal malnutrition,
        hypoalbuminemia, dehydration, and maternal aspiration. Incomplete
        bladder emptying may predispose to recurrent urinary tract infections
        and worsening renal function. Individuals with orthostatic hypotension,
        an infrequent finding in diabetic pregnancies, may have symptomatic
        improvement with the volume expansion of pregnancy (354) or may worsen
        with the normal pregnancy decline in blood pressure. Macrovascular disease may progress in pregnancy. Cholesterol and
        triglyceride levels increase during gestation (see below). Diabetes is a
        risk factor for pregnancy-induced hypertension or preeclampsia
        (355,356). Microvascular disease may further increase the risk. The
        marked fluid shifts which occur postpartum increase the risk of
        myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure in women with
        coronary artery disease (357). Women who have had diabetes for more than
        25 years should undergo stress testing prior to conception to allow
        intervention at that time if necessary. Management Monitoring The goal of therapy is to maintain normal maternal pre- and
        postprandial glucose levels to avoid the immediate and long-term risks
        to the offspring. The trade-off of tight control is an increased risk
        for hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia is frequent in patients with Type 1
        diabetes mellitus, particularly in the first trimester (358), often
        during nocturnal hours. Intensive self-glucose monitoring is essential. Patients with GDM and pregestational diabetes should monitor fasting
        urinary ketones to assess the adequacy of their nutritional intake and
        determine potential metabolic decompensation early in its development.
        Those with GDM on dietary therapy monitor fasting and one- or two-hour
        postprandial glucose levels to determine adequacy of therapy. Patients
        requiring insulin therapy may add premeal and bedtime glucose levels to
        facilitate insulin adjustment. Postmeal glucose levels demonstrate
        better correlation with birthweight than premeal glucose levels,
        reflecting fuel delivery to the fetus (359). Ongoing postprandial
        hyperglycemia despite normal preprandial glucose levels requires
        adjustment of meal size and frequency. Diet Diet is the cornerstone of therapy. Dietary prescriptions are
        individualized for ethnic and personal preferences, activity level, and
        prepregnancy BMI. The Institute of Medicine has published optimal weight
        gain guidelines during pregnancy based on associations between weight
        gain in pregnancy and perinatal morbidity (300)(Table 3, see above).
        Recommended weight gain is inversely proportional to maternal adiposity.
        A diet of 30-32 kcal/kg ideal body weight is prescribed in the first
        trimester, with an increase to 35-38 kcal/kg ideal body weight in the
        second trimester, with adjustments to attain the desired weight gain.
        The calories include 50-55% carbohydrate, <30% fat, and 1.0-1.5 g/kg
        ideal body weight protein. Intake is spread throughout the day with the
        addition of a bedtime snack to avoid the predilection for accelerated
        starvation (360). Carbohydrate intake is limited at breakfast because of
        the increased insulin resistance at that time. Isocaloric dietary
        modifications which increase fat to reduce postprandial hyperglycemia
        (361) have undetermined impact on other maternal fuels, and the impact
        on the long-term outcome of the offspring has not been assessed. High
        fat diets are associated with altered vascular reactivity in the
        offspring of a rat model (362,363). Periconception supplementation with
        folic acid (0.8 mg/day) is recommended for diabetics, as it is for all
        women, to reduce the increased risk of neural tube defects. Insulin Patients with Type 1 diabetes mellitus lack endogenous insulin are
        deficient in some of the counterregulatory hormones and are predisposed
        to wide glucose excursions. As noted previously, intensive insulin
        therapy should be instituted prior to conception to reduce neonatal
        malformations and other morbidity. If patients with pregestational
        diabetes not undergoing intensive insulin therapy and under poor control
        are found to be pregnant, they should be hospitalized immediately for
        institution of intensive insulin therapy. Details of intensive therapy
        are beyond the scope of this discussion. This type of treatment
        generally involves giving basal insulin and premeal boluses of
        short-acting insulin either as multiple daily injections or using the
        insulin pump, with adjustments of insulin doses based upon pre- and
        post-meal glucose levels, meal size, and activity levels. Intensive
        insulin therapy must be closely monitored. Women with optimal glucose
        control at conception demonstrate little change in insulin requirement
        in the first trimester, with a modest decline at 10-14 weeks' gestation.
        Insulin requirements subsequently increase substantially to plateau late
        in the third trimester at total daily doses up to 3-fold above
        prepregnancy levels, and may decline modestly near term. A marked
        decline in insulin requirements suggests placental or renal dysfunction
        and warrants intensive maternal and fetal assessments. Patients with
        Type 2 diabetes mellitus should be treated with insulin prior to
        conception or at the first prenatal visit in an unplanned pregnancy. There is no consensus regarding the level at which insulin therapy
        should be instituted in patients with GDM. Patients with fasting glucose
        > 105 mg/dl should receive insulin therapy. Rates of macrosomia have
        been reduced in settings where most of the patients with fasting glucose
        level < 105 mg/dl have received insulin therapy.(364) Attempts to use
        fetal ultrasound measurements of macrosomia to target patients for
        insulin intervention have resulted in a reduction in neonatal macrosomia
        (365-7), but may not reduce the long-term risks of obesity and glucose
        intolerance as these may occur in offspring with normal birth weights
        (324). Generally accepted targets of therapy are a fasting glucose
        <90-94 mg/dl, 1-hour postprandial glucose < 140 mg/dl, and 2-hour
        postprandial glucose < 120 mg/dl. Insulin doses of 0.5-2.0 units/kg
        are generally required to attain these goals. Exercise Exercise improves insulin sensitivity and peripheral glucose uptake.
        Moderate exercise has been used safely to improve glycemic
        control,(368,369) although previously inactive individuals may have an
        increased risk for uterine contractility, prematurity, fetal growth
        restriction, and fetal bradycardia (370). Oral Agents Oral agents have not been approved for use in pregnancy, as their safety
        has not been established during organogenesis (371,372). Adequacy of
        glycemic control to avoid short- and long-term complications must also
        be established. Studies are now underway to examine the use of oral
        agents in patients with GDM who fail dietary therapy (373). Peripartum The goal of therapy in the peripartum period is to maintain glucoses in
        the 70-120 mg/dl range. Oral carbohydrate is restricted, and intravenous
        dextrose is administered at rates of 5-8 g/hour. Glucose is monitored
        every 1 to 4 hours, and insulin is administered as necessary either as
        an intravenous infusion (0.01-0.04 U/kg actual body weight/hour)(374) or
        by subcutaneous injection of short-acting insulin every 3-6 hours (375).
        Labor may enhance glucose utilization (376), which may be modulated by
        the use of an epidural anesthetic. Insulin therapy to maintain
        euglycemia in labor is rarely required in GDM and may not be needed in
        many individuals with Type 2 diabetes mellitus. Insulin requirements decline dramatically postpartum by up to 50-90%.
        Over the next few weeks, insulin requirements generally return to
        prepregnancy levels. Breastfeeding Breastfeeding increases the caloric requirements by 400-500 kcal/day.
        The benefits of breastfeeding are similar for the offspring of
        nondiabetic and diabetic women and should be encouraged. In addition,
        the epidemiologic study in the Pima Indians suggests additional
        long-term benefit in reducing the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes in
        this population (377). A recent study suggests that maternal
        hyperglycemia during breastfeeding may increase the risk of obesity in
        the offspring (378). Glycemic control therefore should not be neglected.
        Women with Type 2 diabetes who wish to breastfeed but require
        pharmacologic intervention postpartum are continued on insulin therapy
        until the child is weaned. Sulfonylureas may be secreted in breast milk
        and can cause hypoglycemia in the infant. The effects of other oral
        agents given to the mother during lactation on the neonate have not been
        determined and therefore should be avoided. Postpartum Management Postpartum reclassification of women with GDM is essential. An oral
        glucose tolerance test is performed at approximately 6 weeks' postpartum
        for reclassification, followed by postpartum counseling. Those with a
        family history of diabetes mellitus, non-Caucasian racial origin,
        obesity, early gestational age at diagnosis, and more marked
        hyperglycemia at diagnosis are at highest risk for progression to
        diabetes mellitus postpartum (379-81). A number of interventions have
        now been shown to reduce the risk of progression to diabetes in
        high-risk populations, especially those with impaired glucose tolerance.
        The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) demonstrated a 58% reduction in
        the progression to diabetes with diet, exercise, and a 7-10% weight loss
        (382). Pharmacologic therapy with metformin in the DPP provides a 31%
        reduction in diabetes (382), while troglitazone therapy demonstrated a
        70% reduction in diabetes in a placebo-controlled trial in women with
        impaired glucose tolerance with prior GDM (383). Patients also may
        exhibit other features of the insulin resistance syndrome, such as
        hypertension, elevated triglycerides, and low HDL-C (384). These
        individuals may be at increased risk for premature vascular disease and
        should be monitored regularly and treated aggressively. Patients should receive continuing follow-up with annual glucose
        testing and re-evaluation prior to any future pregnancies. Therapy
        should be initiated prior to conception to avoid the increased risk of
        congenital anomalies. Those with normal glucose tolerance before
        pregnancy should also be evaluated early in gestation, and if normal,
        again at the usual time of 24-28 weeks gestation. GDM recurs in more
        than half of subsequent pregnancies (385,386), though the risk of
        recurrence might be reduced by interpregnancy intervention (386). Adequate contraception is vital to facilitate pregnancy planning.
        Low-dose oral contraceptives provide acceptable protection and do not
        exacerbate hyperlipidemia or glucose intolerance (387). Preparations
        containing the progestins norethindrone or desogestrel have also shown
        minimal metabolic effect. Patients treated with the thiazolidinedione
        derivatives such as pioglitazone need to be aware of possible loss of
        efficacy of contraception from low dose oral contraceptives. LIPID DISORDERS IN PREGNANCY Alterations in lipid metabolism in pregnancy favor fuel production
        for the developing fetus. Adipose tissue lipolysis increases, elevating
        the substrates for triglyceride synthesis, while lipoprotein lipase
        activity declines during the third trimester, reducing triglyceride
        clearance (388). The triglyceride:cholesterol ratio increases in all of
        the lipoprotein fractions with the first trimester decline in hepatic
        lipase (388). There is a consequent increase in triglycerides from the
        end of the first trimester, approaching levels 3 times greater than
        prepregnancy levels by term. This increase correlates with the rise in
        estrogen levels in pregnancy. This fat mobilization provides fuel for
        fetal development, and midtrimester triglyceride levels correlate with
        neonatal weight, independent of maternal glucose levels and obesity
        (389). Lipoprotein apoB levels increase through gestation (390), and total
        and LDL cholesterol levels rise during the first trimester to peak at
        150% above prepregnancy levels (391). HDL cholesterol increases 25-45%
        in the first trimester, then declines to near prepregnancy levels by
        term (391). The increase is secondary to elevations in HDL2b, with a
        decline in the HDL3a and HDL3b subfractions. The increase in
        triglycerides and fall in HDL are exaggerated when diabetes complicates
        pregnancy (391-3). Postpartum, it generally takes months for the lipids to reach their
        prepregnancy levels, despite an initial fall in the triglycerides and
        cholesterol (391). Patients with preexisting lipid abnormalities must discontinue
        pharmacologic therapy for pregnancy. HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors are
        contraindicated in pregnancy as they may impair fetal neural lipid
        synthesis. Niacin may cause hepatic toxicity and worsen insulin
        resistance, and its safety in pregnancy has not been studied. The
        fibrates have not been studied in pregnancy, although gemfibrozil is
        tumorigenic in rats. Bile acid binding resins are not absorbed. They may
        be used in pregnancy, but care should be taken to avoid fat-soluble
        vitamin deficiency. Severe hypertriglyceridemia may occur in gestation in patients with
        lipoprotein lipase deficiency (394). Eruptive xanthomas have been seen
        in one patient during pregnancy (395). Of greater concern is the risk
        for pancreatitis and ARDS, with a 20% maternal mortality rate (394).
        Prevention requires drastic dietary fat restrictions. Total parenteral
        nutrition with no lipid component, or plasma exchange or lipoprotein
        apheresis may be used (394,396-8)