Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Probiotics and Their Effect on the Body Home Organic Products About Contact FAQ Resources ABN: 77 108 731 255 Email: info@betterhealth-organics.com Call Today +61248410868  | Australia +0248410868 Web Better Health Organics Home Achieve 
			Health Organic Products Business   
			 Opportunity About 
			Us Contact Us Resources Choose Life, Choose Health, Choose Organics! Achieve Health Better Eating Probiotics and Their Effect on the Body Probiotics are nutritional supplements that contain 
						strains of beneficial bacteria. You might wonder why 
						someone would actually introduce bacteria into their 
						diet. Bacteria are living in your body right now, over 3 
						pounds of it just in your intestines. That probably 
						makes you want to run to the doctor's office and pick up 
						a prescription for antibiotics. But before you do, you 
						should realize that not all bacteria are the same. 
						Everyone's body has a combination of good bacteria and 
						bad bacteria living in it. The object is to have more 
						good bacteria than bad, and this is where Probiotics 
						come into play. They replenish the good bacteria and 
						allow it to thrive and crowd out the illness-causing bad 
						bacteria. And overgrowth of bad bacteria can lead to, or 
						complicate a variety of diseases and even in an 
						otherwise healthy person can cause diarrhea and 
						abdominal pain. Doctors in Europe have long recommended 
						probiotics to their patients, and finally, many doctors 
						in the United States are starting to follow their lead. Bad bacteria can enter your body in a variety of ways. 
						It's in the food we eat. It's on the door handles that 
						we touch and the phones that we answer. In short, bad 
						bacteria are all around us. It enters the body and takes 
						up residence in the small and large intestine, and once 
						there, it flourishes. It latches on to the intestinal wall and begins to 
						affect digestion. It causes inflammation of the 
						intestinal lining and begins to inhibit the absorption 
						of many nutrients. It even begins to produce toxic 
						substances, like alcohols and aldehydes. The least 
						serious result of bad bacteria in the gut is gas and 
						bloating, mild abdominal pain, constipation, or diarrhea. But there are serious side effects as well. Overgrowth 
						of bad bacteria is thought to contribute to many of the 
						intestinal disorders we suffer with, like Irritable 
						Bowel Syndrome, Crones disease, and Leaky Gut Syndrome. 
						All in all, bad bacteria are bad for your body. Lucky for us, researchers discovered probiotics, or good 
						bacteria. Most of you probably know more about good 
						bacteria than you think. We've all heard of Acidophilus, 
						right? It is the main culture of most commercially 
						prepared yogurt. We've all been told to look for the 
						label stating "Live and Active Cultures." In essence, 
						yogurt is a very weak probiotic. It contains a specific 
						strain of bacteria that is normally found in our bodies. 
						But this is not the kind of bacteria that makes us sick. 
						This is a good bacterium. And there are many different 
						varieties of it. Good bacteria enter our system, and 
						again take up residence in the intestines. It fights 
						with bad bacteria for nutrients and food, and if there 
						are enough good bacteria, it will crowd out the bad and 
						leave us with a more balanced system. It reduces the 
						amounts of toxic substances in the gut and allows for 
						the more effective production of digestive enzymes, such 
						as lactase, which is needed to digest dairy products. In 
						many cases, people with food sensitivities notice a 
						reduction of their symptoms when they begin a long-term 
						regimen of probiotics. Good bacteria also protect the 
						lining of the intestines and allow our bodies to more 
						easily fight off infection. There are even more benefits to probiotics. 
						Pediatricians in Finland performed a double-blind 
						placebo controlled study with pregnant and nursing 
						women. They found that women taking probiotics during 
						pregnancy and breastfeeding reduced the chance of 
						infants developing eczema, and also helped to prevent 
						allergies in babies. According to Dr. Joseph Mercola, a 
						doctor who uses a combination of holistic measures and 
						standard drugs to treat his patients, taking a probiotic 
						every day can reduce or reverse problems like acne, 
						eczema, psoriasis, bad breath or body odor, 
						developmental delays in some children, yeast infections, 
						high cholesterol levels, chronic fatigue syndrome, 
						fibromyalgia, and frequent colds and flu. So, while we should all probably take a probiotic every 
						day, there are some times in our lives when we should 
						"double up". Antibiotics are quite effective at killing 
						off the bacteria that make us sick, but they also kill 
						off the good bacteria. And science has shown that the 
						bad always grows back more quickly. You need to actively 
						replenish your system with probiotics to rebalance your 
						body. You should also increase your probiotic intake 
						after vaccinations, when you are sick with a cold or 
						flu, and any time you have diarrhea. Also, it is important to note that just eating yogurt is 
						not enough. You need a quality probiotic with at least 
						10 to 16 different strains of live bacteria. Each strain 
						of bacteria works slightly differently with your body, 
						and some strains only take up residence in the small 
						intestine. A study done by Eyal Raz from 
						the University of California, found that good bacteria 
						is just as effective dead as it is alive. You can read more about MiVitality® Probiotic Super Food 
						by clicking HERE . Probiotics are available in a powdered form, and also as a liquid. In-Liven is a Super Food containing: 18 Amino Acids, 
						including the 8 essentials; significant enzymes and a 
						broad spectrum of essential nutrients. The formula contains the complete Lactobacillus 
						family: acidophilus, delbruekii, caseii, bulgaricus, 
						causasicus, fermenti, plantarum, brevis, heleveticus, 
						lactis, bifidus, leichmanni and sporogenes. The Lactobacilli bacteria used in In-Liven are the 
						result of 20 years of research. Our unique lactobacilli bacteria have been subjected to 
						a large number of stressors including: 
						Heat, cold, chlorine, salt, alcohol and many 
						preservatives found in food. Your doctor may be able to give you additional 
						information about probiotics, though many doctors in the 
						United States are just learning about these nutritional 
						supplements. You may find it helpful to search out a 
						doctor who uses a combination of holistic remedies and 
						standard drugs. In any case, you should look into 
						probiotics as a way to improve your health. Return to Top Get 
					our FREE 6 Part eCourse - ' Dare 
					To Live a Healthy Lifestyle! ' when you subscribe to our ‘Better Health’ Newsletter. Your 
			information is NEVER shared. Your Name: Your E-Mail 
				address: Powered by GetResponse email marketing software Click Here Home | About | Contact | Resources | Terms & Conditions | Privacy | Site 
		Map Copyright 2009-2010 betterhealth-organics.com For problems or questions re