
Merulli Acupuncture - Acupuncture FAQ Welcome Your First Visit Acupuncture FAQ Services Contact Print Health Forms Resources Blog Merulli Acupuncture Desiree Merulli, L.Ac., EAMP, LMP Acupuncture FAQ How does acupuncture work? Acupuncture is an ancient healing art that has prevented and treated illness for over 3000 years. Your body is comprised of a network of complex energy pathways called meridians . Qi (pronounced chee) is the energy force that travels along these meridian pathways.  All living things including plants, animals water and air have Qi.  Acupuncture balances the Qi by activating the points located along the meridians.  Maintaining the smooth flow of Qi throughout your body is essential not only for treating pain and illness but also for improving your total well being. What can you expect during treatment? You can expect to have more energy and sleep better as you achieve balance. Since Chinese medicine treats the root of the problem, not just the symptoms, your problem may require several treatments to resolve.  Depending on your condition, treatments could last one week to several months or longer.  Typically a course of 6-10 treatments will get your health issue under control then you may come back for maintenance as needed.  Each person responds differently and several factors including lifestyle, constitution, exercise, diet and outlook influence the treatment outcome. How does Qi become blocked and unbalanced? Your flow of Qi is affected by both internal and external lifestyle factors.  Injuries, improper sleep, toxins from air, water and food take their toll on your body.  Exposure to excessive wind, dampness, and especially emotional reactions such as worry, stress, anxiety and sadness also affect the flow of Qi.  Acupuncture works very well at reducing stress and balancing the emotions. What can acupuncture do for you? Acupuncture treats a host of medical illnesses and brings the body back into balance to facilitate healing.  The World Health Organization recognizes acupuncture as an effective therapy for many medical conditions. Examples include: Bone, Muscle, & Nervous System Disorders Back, neck &  joint pain, headaches, Jaw pain, TMJ, migraines, sciatica, whiplash, fibromyalgia, arthritis, tendonitis, and chronic fatigue syndrome. Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea, indigestion, bloating, IBS, ulcers, constipation and diarrhea Urogenital Disorders Infertility, PMS, impotence and incontinence Emotional Disorders Anxiety, depression, stress and insomnia Immune System Support Ear, nose throat, eye disorders, allergies, asthma, colds and flu Many other conditions not listed here are also treatable with acupuncture.  Please feel free to ask about your specific health concerns. How does acupuncture feel?  Does it hurt? Most of my patients find acupuncture very calming and relaxing and often fall into a restful sleep during treatments. Acupuncture needles are sterile, disposable, flexible and very fine with a diameter about the size of a human hair. Upon insertion the needles produce a slight pinch or no sensation at all.  Acupuncture needles bear no resemblance to the hollow needles used for injections.  Once the needle is in place, you will feel a pleasant sensation of warmth, numbness, tingling, or heaviness as the Qi moving through your meridians.  The needles are left in place for 20-30 minutes while you rest comfortably. Why seek acupuncture for your health care needs? Acupuncture empowers you the individual, giving you control of your health and wellness. Acupuncture treats the whole person, not just the disease. Acupuncture complements other medical care without unpleasant side effects. Acupuncture is a safe, effective and affordable method of health care. Acupuncture activates and nurtures your body’s natural healing process. Welcome Your First Visit Acupuncture FAQ Services Contact Print Health Forms Resources Blog Seattle Clinic: 206-388-3349    Anacortes Clinic: 360-391-9467      qi@