
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 07:14:35 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8b mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.5
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

What triggers/Causes BACKACHE? Titles Titles & descriptions Get notified of new articles: Subscribe me Unsubscribe me Your Ad Here What triggers/Causes BACKACHE? Navigation: Main page » Health and Fitness Print this page Submit article Comment article Quantum Mind Power. Naturally Attract Power, Wealth And Success Into Your Life By Listening To Amazing Recordings Based On Latest Technology. Author: M.Leonard Alexander Poor Posture Lack of exercise Standing or bending down for long periods Sitting in a chair that does not provide enough back support Sleeping on a mattress that does not provide enough back support Lifting, carrying, pushing or pulling heavy loads, or going about these. A fall. The most important cause of backache is obesity. Carrying excess weight puts a strain on the back, on both the bones and the soft tissue (muscles, ligaments, and joint tissues). The excess weight in front of the spine, on the abdomen and chest, leads to pulling the body forward, causing the back muscles to be under a strain to hold the body erect. A weakening of these structures by fat that grows into the tiny spaces around blood vessels and along the borders between muscles and around joints causes these soft tissues to be less able to protect themselves from minor injury. Overeating is another major cause of backache. In a thin person, even eating a large meal too can result in overbalancing the body in the forward position from the extra weight of the food and digestive juices. The reflexive effort to hold the shoulders and ribs off the overloaded intestinal tract adds to the strain on the back. A slipped or ruptured disc causes rather severe back pain, often with radiation down the thigh and leg, sometimes with "hot spots" somewhere along the course of the pain. Diseased discs come on over a period of years, caused by excessive strain on the joints of the back, such as by poor posture, occupational stresses or competitive sports. It is rarely a sudden event in a person having no previous symptoms. Maintaining one position for a long period of time, such as in typing or bending over at work may cause chronic back strain. Learn to sit and bend without strain. Weakness of muscles from lack of exercise is another important cause of backache. Vigorous outdoor exercise that brings into use all the powers and movements of the back can gradually correct certain chronic backaches. Be certain to start an exercise slowly, as exercise of weak muscles can cause a flare-up of pain. Spondylolisthesis is a slipping forward of one vertebra over its neighbor with erosion of a part of one vertebra. Sitting on the floor with the legs straight out in front can cause this type of backache. Low-seated bucket seats give a similar position. A transitional vertebra is a birth defect in which one vertebrae in the low back does double duty, both as a part of the spine above, and as a part of the pelvis below. The resulting overwork leads to pain. Back-strengthening exercises can help this type of pain. Psychological factors are, in some people, a very potent cause of backache. Take away the unhappiness or prescribe long walks in nature to neutralize tension or mental anguish and the backache is sure to disappear. Constitutional factors cause backache, such as constipation, hypoglycemia, pregnancy, menstruation, and pelvic tumors in both men and women. About The Author M.Leonard Alexander - For more info please visit http://www.basic-guide.com This article was posted on April 07, 2005 Powered by CommonSense CMS script - http://www.sensesites.com/ Link exchange Exchange links with our website Carbohydrates: What You must know This scares me to death, every day you walk down the street it is becoming more and more apparent t... Spinach Salad with Strawberries This Spinach Salad may be prepared before the serving, but the dressing for this Spinach Salad with... It’s All About the Calories and Exercising Like most people when I was younger it see