
Tangled up in blue - Australian Cyclist Subscribe to Australian Cyclist : About us : Advertise : Links : eNewsletter : Contact Us Search Home Magazine Archive Where to buy Letters Calendar Classifieds Advertise Subscribe Columns & News Comment News Features Letters Briefs Events MY Generation Riding News Features Ride Guide Women My Bike My Commute Test Events My Ride Technique Travel Features Ride Guide My Trail My Tour Gear Features Gear Guide Workshop Women My Bike Test Reviews Workshop Features Workshop Women Health Fitness Nutrition Women My Bike Health Community News Features Women My Place My Passion My Bike My Bike My Commute My Commute My Trail My Trail My Place My Place My Ride My Ride Cyber-cycling Features Reviews Features Gear Guide Test Reviews Technique Technique My Tour My Tour My Job My Job Home » September/October 2008 > Tangled up in blue Health Tangled up in blue By Teena Preston : 01-Sep-2008 Are cyclists more prone to varicose veins or do you just see their naked legs more than the general population? To save her riding buddy Teena Preston went in search of answers. My friend had only taken up cycling 12 months ago and was still, as far as I knew, in love with her shiny new Bianchi when she tearfully announced she was quitting and dropped her pants to show me why. I was somewhat relieved when she pointed to a vein running down the inside of her calf muscle. "It's a varicose vein!" she cried, and denounced cycling as the cause. The vein actually looked pretty straight and smooth to me, and I was impressed with how strong and lean her calves looked, but it was going to take a lot of convincing to keep my riding buddy. So here goes. Some physiologists refer to the calf muscles as "the little hearts", referring to their role in pushing blood back to the heart. As blood leaves the tiny capillaries in the muscles where nutrients and waste products are exchanged it starts to collect in the veins. Some veins run deep near the bones, others run just under the skin, but they all have one-way valves so blood can only flow toward the heart. In your lower legs, where the blood has a long fight against gravity to get back to the heart, the calf muscles push against the veins, forcing the blood to move. If, however, the valves in a section of vein fail, the blood builds up, stretching the vein and sometimes causing them to become swollen, blue and very visible - these are varicose veins. Varicose veins When veins become abnormally thick, full of twists and turns or enlarged, they are called varicose veins. Varicose veins affect two out of 10 adults, and while they can occur anywhere, it's generally the superficial veins in the legs and thighs that have a tendency to become varicosed - they have the least support but have to hold the most blood against the force of gravity. The exact cause of varicose veins is unknown but the consensus is that there is a strong hereditary component. Dr Luis Navarro, a surgeon turned vein specialist, says the single biggest contributing factor in varicose veins is genetics. "You get varicose veins because usually you are born with a congenital predisposition to varicose veins," he says. There is certainly no hard evidence to suggest cycling causes varicose veins. However, there is a theory that strenuous exercise, including intense cycling, may increase blood pressure in the legs and accentuate existing varicose veins. Besides cosmetic problems, varicose veins are often painful, especially when standing or walking. "It's like getting electrocuted - like a sudden bolt of burning pain just shoots through my leg," says Rob Sutton, a long-time varicose-vein sufferer and avid cycler. They can also itch, and scratching them can cause bleeding and ulcers. The good news is serious complications are rare and in most cases, treatment is not required. Non-surgical treatments include sclerotherapy (injection of a solution that causes the vein to close by irritating the blood vessel), elastic stockings, elevating the legs, and, strangely enough, exercises such as cycling. Cycling rhythmically contracts your calf muscles, helps increase blood return to the heart and minimises blood pooling in the legs. Surgery tends to be reserved for patients with quite extensive and severe varicose veins causing painful symptoms, rather than for cosmetic reasons. Spider veins Spider veins look different to varicose veins but are actually quite similar. They are networks of small, thin, dilated blood vessels that lie close to the skin's surface. They may be red, blue or purple in colour. As with varicose veins, they commonly appear on legs, but can also appear on the face and other parts of the body. Spider veins can appear in a number of different patterns. They may look like a true spider shape with a group of veins radiating out from a central point; or they may be thin, separate lines. They may be deemed unsightly by their owner, but spider veins rarely cause the pain and swelling of varicose veins and tend to be a cosmetic problem only. Treatment options for spider veins are much the same as varicose veins. Exercise veins I've left the good one until last. Veins that protrude during exercise are often mistaken for varicose veins, sending their owners into a small frenzy. When exercising, it is quite common for veins to protrude and, for some athletes, it's a sought-after effect. During exercise muscles swell and harden as they become engorged with blood. As a result superficial veins can be pushed toward the skin surface and appear to bulge. Such veins are generally more visible in persons with less subcutaneous fat. Even without exercise, some people's veins naturally stick out but they are not considered to be varicose veins. This bulging is neither good nor bad but simply a result of normal physiological mechanisms that result from the rise in arterial blood pressure during exertion and/or by having less body fat. Not surprisingly my friend was more impressed with the "less fat" side of the argument than the "more muscle", but after talking to a lot of people, including her doctor, she was eventually convinced that exercise veins are not a precursor to varicose veins. So after a ride, if you find your veins are more prominent than normal, it may be nothing more than a sign of a job well done. If you're concerned or you feel your veins are causing troublesome symptoms, see your doctor for a proper assessment. And if it does turn out that you have varicose or spider veins, all the more reason to keep on pedalling (with doc's OK of course) to keep the blood moving. Varicose and spider vein prevention 1. Elevate your legs when possible, keeping your feet higher than heart level. 2. Exercise. Walking, climbing stairs, cycling and swimming keep your calf muscles in motion to activate the calf muscle pump. 3. Move your legs frequently. Flexing your ankles periodically will pump the blood out of your legs. During periods of prolonged sitting or standing, flex your ankles 10 times. Repeat this every 10 minutes. 4. Support compression hose. These provide external graduated counter-pressure to aid in venous blood flow to the heart. They reduce pooling and pressure in the veins. 5. Maintain your ideal body weight to reduce excess pressure on your legs. 6. Avoid excessive heat on your legs, such as hot tubs and hot baths. Heat will tend to increase vein distention and lead to more pooling of blood. Causes of varicose and spider veins Heredity: 70% of sufferers have a first-degree relative who has varicose veins. Age: starting between 18 and 35, peaking between 50 and 60. Gender: four females for every male. Pregnancy: certain hormones make smooth muscles in veins relax, soften and weaken. Varicose veins that form during pregnancy may spontaneously improve or even disappear a few months after delivery. Lifestyle/occupation: prolonged sitting or standing increases the risk. Blood continuously pressed against the valves eventually causes them to fail. go to top Subscribe to Australian Cyclist : About us : Advertise : Links : eNewsletter : Contact Us ©Copyrights 2012 Australian Cyclist Magazine All articles and photographs on this website remain the copyright of the author/photographer. You may print articles for your personal use but you may not reproduce text or photographs in any other form without the permission of the author/photographer. To request permission please contact: cyclis