
Government finally moves on male circumcision National AIDS Resource Center Home NARC About NARC What NARC Does Programs Explore NARC News Global Resources HIV/AIDS Resources Related Websites Various Websites Events Conf. & Events Vacancies NARC & Partners Contact Us Inquiry & Feedback Sitemap Explore ART Communication Betengna Radio Diaries Dagu Youth Media Fitun Warmline Library/Clearinghouse MARCH Media and Special Events Outreach Regional ARCs Wegen AIDS Talkline Monthly Call Volume Wegen AIDS Talkline Quarterly Callers Data Previous Statistics Local News International News Press Release News Release Inside Scoop Resource Downloads Glossary Organizations Directory FAQs Links Library Resources Health Stats National Factsheets Global Factsheets PMTCT Sites Addis Ababa City Administration Afar National Regional State Amhara National Regional State Benishangul Gumuz National Regional State Dire Dawa Administration Council Gambella National Regional State Harari National Regional State Oromia National Regional State Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples' Regional State Somali National Regional State Tigray National Regional State ART Sites and Information Addis Ababa City Administration Afar National Regional State Amhara National Regional State Benishangul Gumuz National Regional State Dire Dawa Administration Council Gambella National Regional State Harari National Regional State Oromia National Regional State Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples' Regional State Somali National Regional State Tigray National Regional State VCT (PIHCT) Sites Addis Ababa City Administration Afar National Regional State Amhara National Regional State Benishangul Gumuz National Regional State Dire Dawa Administration Council Gambella National Regional State Harari National Regional State Oromia National Regional State Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples' Regional State Somali National Regional State Tigray National Regional State Other NARC Websites People Living with HIV/AIDS World AIDS Day Fitun Warmline Betengna Radio Diaries Dagu Youth Media HAPCO Federal HAPCO Addis Ababa HAPCO Amhara HAPCO Oromia HAPCO Tigray HAPCO SNNPR HAPCO Ministry of Health Skip to content Monday, 13 February 2012 07:51 Government finally moves on male circumcision font size decrease font size increase font size Print E-mail Malawi, 13 February 2012 (PlusNews) - Clement Zulu never thought he  would be circumcised. A Christian from the north of Malawi, Zulu was  among millions of Malawians who believed the practice was a ritual for  the southern Yao people, who are mostly Muslims. But after reading a newspaper article in October 2011 stating that  Malawi had adopted medical male circumcision as part of its HIV  prevention strategy and would begin providing the service, the  34-year-old had a change of heart. Zulu is now one of the many to have  undergone the procedure free at state hospitals. “Having lost my three relatives to HIV/AIDS I decided to take some  precautionary measures that would [help to] prevent me from being  infected," he told IRIN/PlusNews. According to the Principal Secretary for HIV/AIDS in the Office of the  President and Cabinet, Mary Shawa, more than 5,000 men have so far been  circumcised - an "encouraging" figure given that only 4 percent of the  country's medical staff have been trained to carry out the surgical  procedure. “Being a [member of the] medical [profession] does not mean that one  automatically knows how to [perform] circumcisions. So there are special  courses that [have to be] taken regarding the circumcision,” she told  IRIN/PlusNews. The campaign hopes to circumcise more than 250,000 men by 2015, said  National Sexually Transmitted Infections Programme Officer in the  Ministry of Health, Amon Nkhata. As one of the countries hardest hit by HIV/AIDS, Malawi has been criticized for moving too slowly in introducing free male  circumcision in state facilities. Results from three randomized clinical  trials released in 2005 and 2006 provided compelling evidence that circumcision can reduce a man's risk of HIV infection during heterosexual intercourse by as much as 60 percent. The World Health Organization endorsed the procedure as an HIV-prevention measure in 2007, but implementation  of a large-scale male circumcision programme in Malawi has been  controversial in the conservative country. Southern Malawi, where most circumcisions take place, has a large  migrant labour population and an HIV prevalence rate of about 18  percent, accounting for almost 70 percent of the country's HIV  infections, according to government figures. Circumcision is culturally  less prominent in northern Malawi, where prevalence rates are also  lower. The disparity between HIV prevalence and traditional circumcision rates  has raised doubts among some health officials, who argued in local  newspapers that they had not yet been presented with enough clinical  evidence, and the efficacy of male circumcision was questionable given  high HIV prevalence rates among traditionally circumcising populations  in the south. But the government formally launched its voluntary medical male  circumcision programme last year in Mulanje district, which has an  estimated HIV prevalence of 17 percent. Mulanje is one of nine pilot  districts to offer the service. “Malawi had also conducted its own study which also proved the efficacy  of male circumcision in reducing the spread of the virus that causes  AIDS," said Ministry of Health spokesman Henry Chimbali. The government has embarked on an intense campaign to disseminate  accurate information about medical male circumcision. Malawi registers  70,000 new infections a year, and people still had to be reminded that  male circumcision alone is "not 100 percent safe", Chimbali cautioned. Source: http://plusnews.org/report.aspx?reportid=94832 Read 20 times | Like this? Tweet it to your followers! Published in International News Social sharing Add to Google Buzz Add to Facebook Add to Delicious Digg this Add to Reddit Add to StumbleUpon Add to MySpace Add to Technorati More in this category: « Global Fund Crisis - Govt Projects Face Closure Govt Announces Joint Venture to Produce ARVs » back to top Join us on Facebook Resources Resource Downloads Glossary Organizations Directory FAQs Links Library Resources Health Stats ART Sites and Information VCT (PIHCT) Sites PMTCT Sites Life 101, The Journey - Episode 17 Previous Episodes The Black Tigers - Special Edition Previous Episodes The Shooting Stars-FP- Episode 28 Previous Episodes ImageSlideShow requires Javascript Resource Downloads Publications ART Resources MARCH Resources PMTCT Resources Media HCT Resources Federal HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Office Subscribe Join our mailing list Receive Text HTML Local News OAFLA President Called First Ladies of African Countries to Prevent HIV/AIDS Africa's AIDS Treatment Requirement Hit $12 Billion Continent At 'Make-It or Break-It Moment' Over AIDS Over 120,000 mothers receive family planning service Ethiopia to achieve MDGs health targets in controlling prevalence of TB: Minister Subscribe to this RSS feed International News Global Fund cuts AIDS cash to Uganda Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis reduces death rate by almost 60% in adults taking ART in low and middle-income countries Govt Announces Joint Venture to Produce ARVs Government finally moves on male circumcision Global Fund Crisis - Govt Projects Face Closure Subscribe to this RSS feed Betengna is a radio diaries program of PLWHA. Listen In! Sheger  FM 102.1 Debub  Radio (Awassa) Dimtsi Woyane Tigray Oromia Radio Broadcasts Amhara Mass Media Agency Dagu   Addis , an entertaining radio program that portrays  the  challenges young people  face in practicing healthy behaviors. You  can tune into Sheger FM 102.1 on Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Tuesdays at  7:30 PM(Repeat). You can also download and or listen to recent episodes from our website. Fitun   Warmline is a toll-free telephone information  service devoted  to   answering  questions from health care professionals  about HIV/AIDS   care and   treatment. CALL 932 or submit your inqueries online ! You are here: News International News Government finally moves on male circumcision Top Skip to content Home About NARC Programs News Resources Related Websites Events Vacancies Contact Us Sitemap Copyright © 2012 National AIDS Resource Center. All rights reserved This website is funded by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief through 