<http://www.allaboutdiabetes.net/?p=1822>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Herbal and Dietary Supplements for Diabetes | All About Diabetes All About Diabetes Home Herbal and Dietary Supplements for Diabetes Posted on Sep 14, 2011 under Healthy Advocacy | 2 Comments The worldwide prevalence of diabetes mellitus has been increasing in recent years and the Philippines is no exception. While there has been an increase of available medications, these are beyond the means of many Filipinos. The folkloric use of herbal medications has been with us for a long time. Herbal medications are generally thought to be safe because it is derived from natural sources. The reader is forewarned that this impression can lead to a false sense of security. As we have learned from Western medicine, adverse effects are dependent on the dose (of the main and other ingredients), number and amount of impurities, and any concomitant food or drug intake. Absence of data on adverse effects is not the same as absence of adverse effects. The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) of the United States of America lists the following supplements that have been used for diabetes, with a focus on some that have been studied in clinical trials, such as alpha-lipoic acid, chromium, omega-3 fatty acids, and polyphenols. Other supplements listed include garlic, magnesium, coenzyme Q10, ginseng, vanadium, prickly pear cactus, gurmar, Coccinia indica, aloe vera, fenugreek, and bitter melon. Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is a very important micronutrient found in food (especially high in spinach, broccoli, and tomatoes) and sold as a nutritional supplement. It improves glycemic control and polyneuropathies associated with diabetes mellitus probably by stimulating glucose uptake and improving insulin sensitivity. However, only about 30% of the supplement is absorbed and ALA is rapidly eliminated from the body. Chromium (Cr) is a trace element essential in carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism. It is a cofactor for insulin function resulting in enhanced glucose transport into liver, muscle, and adipose tissue. Dietary sources of Cr include brewer’s yeast, beer, whole grains, cheese, egg yolks, broccoli, liver, and meat. The refining of grains and sugars and the processing of foods remove most of the absorbable Cr. Cr supplementation, provided as 1000 microgram per day as Cr picolinate, enhanced insulin sensitivity in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) opined that there is very limited credible evidence for qualified health claims that chromium picolinate may reduce the risk of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Ampalaya (Momordica charantia) is a popular folk remedy for diabetes in the Philippines and in other Asian countries. Not all preparations in the market containing ampalaya have data showing glucose lowering effect. The most promising is the “Makiling variety” ampalaya leaf tablet developed by the National Integrated Research Program on Medicinal Plants (NIRPROMP), under the leadership of Dr. Nelia Maramba, and the sponsorship of the Philippine Center for Health Research and Development (PCHRD) and the Department of Science and Technology (DOST). To our knowledge, this preparation is the most extensively studied to date and its application to be a prescription drug is still under evaluation by the Philippine Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It was shown in a clinical trial that the ampalaya leaf tablet taken at 100 mg/kg/day have similar glycemic control to glibenclamide 5 mg/day (unpublished data). Because of its abortifacient property, ampalaya preparations in general are not recommended for pregnant women. Data regarding cinnamon (cinnamomum cassia) is inconclusive. Some studies showed improvement in fasting and/or postprandial blood glucose and another one showed improvement in HbA1c. The decrease in plasma glucose seem to be more beneficial for those with poorer glycemic control. A meta-analysis, however, concluded that cinnamon does not appear to improve HbA1c, FBG, or lipid parameters in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. However, different doses have been used in various studies, making results comparisons challenging at best. Fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum) is a common condiment in Indian cooking and is used as medicine for diabetes in India and China. Mechanisms proposed include decreased carbohydrate absorption and increased insulin secretion. While there are studies that show improved glycemic control with fenugreek, these studies are of lower quality and more studies are needed. Nopal (Opuntia streptacantha) or the prickly pear cactus, found in arid regions throughout the Western hemisphere, is commonly used for glucose control by those of Mexican descent. It has a high soluble fiber and pectin content, which may affect intestinal glucose uptake, partially accounting for its hypoglycemic actions.” Human studies published in English report decreases in serum glucosela and serum insulin, suggesting an improvement in insulin sensitivity. All articles on Nopal came from the same group of investigators. While the studies on nopal’s hypoglycemic effect are promising, the sample sizes are small and we do not know how many subjects the different publications have in common. Magnesium is another mineral that we need. The mechanism is most likely improved insulin sensitivity. Dietary sources include whole grains, beans, nuts, and green, leafy vegetables. Magne sium deficiency is associated with poor glucose control in patients with diabetes. However, supplementation of magnesium did not produce clear long-term benefits in type 2 diabetes. Gymnema sylvestre (Gurmara) has been used in Ayurveda to regulate sugar metabolism for several centuries. Gymnemic acid molecules are similar to that of glucose molecules molecules and may curb the sugar craving. It has been postulated to increase insulin production, regenerate pancreatic cells, increase utilization of glucose, and causes inhibition of glucose absorption from intestine. American ginseng (P. quiquefolius) has been studied for a possible hypoglycemic effect. However, the trials are small and longer term studies are needed. Liu et al (2004) systematically reviewed traditional Chinese herbal medicines and found that while some Traditional Chinese herbal medicines were shown to be beneficial in both placebo and actively controlled clinical trials, there were limitations in the conduct of these trials. In summary, alpha-lipoic acid, chromium and the “Makiling variety” ampalaya leaf tablet offer the most promise in terms of adjunctive treatment of diabetes mellitus. The other supplements discussed may benefit from more studies. Related terms: chromium and vanadium in philippines cinnamon omega-3 fatty acids alpha lipoic acid chromium coenzyme q10 garlic and magnesium each tablet contains metformin alpha lipoic acid Mike Enriquez endorser for what kind of herbal supplement for diabetics phil herbal meds statistics philippine medicinal plants for type 2 diabitis philippine dietary supplement published food supplements for diabetes in the philippines ginseng - mike enriquez health supplements available in the philippines containing gymnema sylvestre health supplements in diabetes available in philippines role of herbal in diabetic indian medicine with ALA magnesium chromium & vanadium magnesium supplement philippines prickly pear amino acid content coQ10 makiling variety medical association of india - indian food supplements for insulin regeneration for type 2 diabetics filipino term for gymnema sylvestre advertise product rj jacinto alternative medicine for diabetes type 2 in philippines Related posts: Herbal Weight Loss Supplements Safe and Effective? Herbal medications to prevent diabetes? Vitamin Supplements for Diabetics? Dietary Glycemic Load linked to risk for heart disease in women The Alternative Way Related Posts Aromatherapy and Diabetes (Feb 04, 2012) Heart-Friendly Habits (Feb 03, 2012) Good Fat vs Bad Fat (Jan 26, 2012) Excellence Beyond Imperfection (Jan 05, 2012) Nutrition and Weight Loss (Jan 03, 2012) 2 Comments					 so far » by Monique, on September 22 2011 
			@ 10:05 am The role of herbs in shedding calories and reducing BG levels for Diabetics is acclaimed world over. I resorted to NATVIA’s products which derives its ingredients from fresh tips of Setvia plant.It has 95% less calories than sugar. Its without any Aspartame or Saccharine. by gail iglesia, on October 23 2011 
			@ 11:22 pm it’s not really a comment. may i know where i can find the latest statistics on Diabetes in the Philippines? thank you! Comment RSS · TrackBack URI Leave a comment Name: (Required) eMail: (Required) Website: Comment: Categories Diabetes Facts Diabetes Research Fitness Health Watch Healthy Advocacy Healthy News Healthy Recipes People and Places Retirement Tips Stress Busters Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 March 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 February 2010 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 June 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 Recent Search Terms anxiety disorder and diabetes success story of felipe l calamansi juice splenda recipe tikoy making philippine cardivascular outcome on diabetes mellitus anxiety and diabetes list of endocrinologists in philippines statistics on diabetes in philippines food pyramid ng doh philippines philippine literatures 2010 calamansi juice with splenda recipe ponkan diabetic root crops for diabe gallstones surgery price in philipiness calamansi juice for gestational diabetes pregnant felipe gozon\s story calamansi juice good for gestational diabetes pregnant philippine society of endocrinology and metabolism annual convention statistics about wounds in the philippines diet for diabetic patient Top Searches all about diabetes diabetes and anxiety antibiotics and diabetes diabetes and antibiotics philippine diabetes association diabetes anxiety anxiety and diabetes antibiotics for diabetics diabetes antibiotics diabetes in the philippines Recent Comments Noel136: I'm so glad they're trying to marie jee aguilar m.d.: dear Sir/ Madame:

 Good eve roxanne pasco: ask ko lng dn po qng nagbbgay roxanne pasco: Dear Diabetes Philippine may I henry camasura: i'm very much interested to un Michelle: My question is what is the rat gail iglesia: it's not really a comment. may Donna: When the reason for the leg cr Monique: The role of herbs in shedding mari: Hello Sir/Maam,
tanong ko lan Recent Post Protein as a Cure for Diabetes, Obesity Big Hips, Less Diabetes Risk Gastric Bypass Surgery beneficial for Obese Diabetic Teens Diabetes May Slow Mental Function Low-carb Diets Helps Control Type 2 Diabetes Bitter Effects of the Sweet Tooth Aromatherapy and Diabetes Heart-Friendly Habits Salad Premiere Seafood Liguini Meta Log in Valid XHTML XFN WordPress WordPress Th