
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 20:42:16 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.42 (Unix) mod_gzip/1.3.26.1a mod_auth_passthrough/1.8 mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 PHP-CGI/0.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture and Alternative Medicine Inc. What is it?  How does it work? How long does it take? Will my insurance cover the treatment? Is it effective by itself or only in conjunction with other medical treatment? Come and learn how the thousands year old practice can help you manage pain, restore movement and improve function. Date: Tuesday, June 22, 2010 Time: 7:00-8:00 p.m. Location: Our Office  671 Naomi Ave, Arcadia, CA (east of Baldwin, 1 block south of Duarte Rd.) Phone: 626-446-7027 No RSVP needed…..... Bring a Friend Lecture presented by Ann-Pham-Ward, L.Ac RESOURCES Allergies/ Asthma Back Pain Back Pain Headache/ Migraine Knee Pain Neck Pain/ Stiffness 1. Allergies/ Asthma Acupuncture and Seasonal Allergies Symptoms of running nose, sneezing, and watery itchy eyes that recur during specific parts of the year (especially Spring and Fall) are a cause of much suffering of a large segment of the U.S. population. Millions of dollars are spent on medications and the allergy shots for the treatment of seasonal allergies. Western medicine views seasonal allergies as a form of immediate hypersensitivity reaction which occurs when anti-bodies produced by lymphocytes interact with airborne particles such as pollen. Western medicine describes the locations of lymphocytes in addition to being in the blood stream as also in Peyer's patches in the gastrointestinal tract, spleen, lymph nodes, and bone marrow. Interestingly in my practice of acupuncture the Spleen, Stomach, and Large Intestine meridians are utilized a great deal. One sees an interesting overlap of Western and Chinese medical thought. Also, Chinese medical thought sees sweets as being harmful to the Spleen (Chinese sense of the Spleen) function. In my practice sweets are often a major factor in the persistence and intensity of seasonal allergy symptoms. I find it gratifying to treat seasonal allergies with acupuncture. There is often a quick response. Often patients get some relief during the first visit while lying on the exam table with their acupuncture needles in place. Patients are asked to score their nose stuffiness on a zero to ten scale. Zero meaning no stuffiness at all and 10 being the worst possible stuffiness for the patient. A score may be determined before and after the acupuncture treatment. Patients can also determine the effectiveness of acupuncture treatment by tracking the number of sneezes per day and the number of itching episodes around their eyes. After an initial series of treatments, patients come in for further treatments on an as needed basis. Some patients come back in once or twice a year for a booster while others may come more often. In general, patients do better if they avoid sugar and milk in their diets. They have better and longer lasting responses. I have seen many patients who failed medication and allergy shots respond to acupuncture. Patients continue with whatever standard treatments they are currently undergoing while getting acupuncture treatments. Most patients end up significantly reducing or eliminating their dependence on allergy medications. There are many different ways of performing acupuncture, for example TCM (Traditional Chinese Medicine), Japanese, Korean, French Energetics, Worsley 5 Elements, ear, hand, etc. In choosing an acupuncturist the specific style a practitioner uses is not so important as the success rate a practitioner obtains with whatever style they use. Prospective patients should speak with the acupuncturist and inquire about past experience in treating seasonal allergies and their success rate. In conclusion, it is my opinion that acupuncture is an excellent treatment option for seasonal allergies. Patrick J. LaRiccia, M.D., MARF Board Member Back to top 2. Back Pain Acupuncture and Back Pain What is back pain? Back pain is one of the most common reasons people seek medical attention. It is one of the most frequent causes of missed workdays and one of the most expensive conditions in the United States; according to a recent government report, in 1999, nearly one million people in the U.S. took time away from work to treat and recover from some sort of back pain. Back problems can be caused by an inordinately wide range of problems. It can exist alone, or it can be caused by a condition that occurs elsewhere in the body, with the pain being transmitted (referred) to areas of the back by the nervous system. The majority of backache sufferers complain of pain in the lower back; the second most common site of discomfort is the base of the neck. Who suffers from back pain? Half of all adults will experience some form of low back pain during their lifetime. The fact that humans walk upright puts great pressure on the spine and the muscles that support it. Over time, factors such as disease, accidents, poor posture and overexertion can lead to immediate and/or long-term back problems. Most back pain is muscular in nature. Muscle pain perpetuates what is known as the pain cycle, a phenomenon of which the back is particularly susceptible. In the pain cycle, pain causes a muscle to spasm, which may distort the discs, joints and nerves of the spine. This spasm leads to further pain, leading to further spasm, which compounds the original problem. If the nerves are irritated enough, it may cause pain to radiate down into the leg, similar to pain experienced via a herniated disc. In most cases, people who experience an episode of acute back pain will recover in 3-12 weeks. For those who don't recover, however, chronic back pain can be a significant source of inconvenience and suffering. What can acupuncture do? Acupuncture can play an important role in the reduction or elimination of back pain by reducing recovery time and preventing a chronic condition from developing. Research has shown that acupuncture causes the body to produce natural steroids and promote the production of natural endorphins. Steroids decrease inflammation, while endorphins are produced by the body to kill pain. Both substances can play an integral part in the breaking up of the pain cycle. By reducing acute back pain, acupuncture may also reduce the chances of chronic back pain from occurring. It can help avoid the need for costlier and more invasive surgical procedures. And if back pain can be significantly reduced with acupuncture, it also lowers the need for painkillers or other medications that can either cause unwanted side-effects or prolong a patient's condition. Many styles of acupuncture may help ease back pain. Some practitioners may advocate very few needles at particular acupoints on the hand; other practitioners may employ electroacupuncture at several points on the body simultaneously. In general, the longer the pain has been present, the longer it will take for acupuncture to produce a response. As with any other form of care, however, remember that not all patients will respond to acupuncture. Make sure to discuss the situation thoroughly with your acupuncturist before undergoing treatment for back pain (or any other condition). References * Coan RM, et al. The acupuncture treatment of neck pain: a randomized controlled study. Amer J Chin Med 1980;8:181-189. * Ernst E, White AR. Acupuncture for back pain: A meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Arch Intern Med 1998;158:2235-2241. * Lee A. Back pain and the role of acupuncture in management. Available online at www.barefootdoctors.com/backpain.html. * Patel M, Gutzwiller F, Paccaud F, Marazzi A. A meta-analysis of acupuncture for chronic pain. Inter J Epidem 1989;18:900-906. * Thomas M, Lundberg T. Importance of modes of acupuncture in the treatment of chronic nociceptive low back pain. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand 1994;38:63-69. Yi-Kai L, et al. Silver needle therapy for intractable low-back pain at tender point after removal of nucleus pulposus. JMPT June 2000;23(5):320-3. Acupuncture Today Back to top 3. Back Pain Needling Away at Lower Back Pain: Study finds acupuncture an effective treatment MONDAY, Nov. 26 (HealthScoutNews) -- New research shows that the Chinese treatment known as acupuncture may help control lower back pain without the added side effects of many pain control medications. An ancient Eastern science that has been steadily gaining popularity in the West, acupuncture uses the relatively painless placement of tiny needles into various nerve pathways on the body to help stimulate the production of natural pain relievers called endorphins. "Essentially, the acupuncture works somewhat like a pain-relieving drug in the sense that it provides temporary relief," says study author Dr. Charis Meng, a licensed acupuncturist and rheumatologist at the Integrated and Complementary Care Center of Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City. Unlike traditional painkillers, which often require increasing amounts to get the same relief, acupuncture has somewhat of a cumulative effect, Meng says. "After a period of time, the number of treatments can be dramatically reduced while still maintaining the same levels of pain control," she says. According to rehabilitation medicine expert and licensed acupuncturist Dr. James Dillard, for those who can't or don't want to use traditional pain medicines, acupuncture is becoming an accepted way to control chronic pain. "The study is small but well done and is another entry in the growing body of evidence that shows acupuncture can be an accepted and very effective form of therapy for some people," says Dillard, clinical advisor to Columbia University's Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine and assistant clinical professor at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. In particular, he says, the benefits for the elderly can be extremely important. "Most elderly people are already taking a number of medications for various health problems, so anytime you can cut down on the number of pills they have to take and still offer pain relief, that's a good thing," says Dillard. Indeed, the six-week study did concentrate on elderly patients, with 40 participants all over the age of 60. Each complained of chronic low back pain for at least 12 weeks, and all had undergone various types of medical imaging to rule out spinal tumor, infection, fracture, as well as certain neurological symptoms. Patients who had previously undergone either acupuncture or lumbar surgery were also excluded. "The study did include patients who suffered with sciatica or disk problems," says Meng. At the start of the study, patients answered questions and took a test that measured the degree of their pain. The patients were then divided into two groups. One group of 21 patients continued taking standard pain therapy prescribed by their doctors, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, muscle relaxants and acetaminophen (Tylenol), as well as back exercises. The second group of 19 patients also continued taking their traditional therapy, but added twice-weekly acupuncture treatments for five weeks. Pain scores were repeated two weeks into treatment, again one week later, and three weeks after the treatments ended. The result, says Meng, was that "patients who underwent acupuncture had significantly less pain and disability in their lower back than patients who took standard traditional therapies alone." In addition, she says, results were so impressive that 17 of the 21 patients in the group that were allowed only standard therapy elected to begin a six-week acupuncture regimen when the study ended. They, too, experienced similar pain reduction. The results were presented at the annual meeting of the American College of Rheumatology, which met earlier this month in San Francisco. In addition to the lower back pain study, research also presented at the conference found acupuncture provided relief for patients with fibromyalgia, a chronic and painful muscle-related disorder affecting mostly women. During this 16-week study, conducted by a group of Brazilian researchers, 60 patients received nightly doses of 25 milligrams of amitryptiline, an antidepressant found to offer some pain relief. Additionally, 20 of the 60 patients received a once-weekly acupuncture treatment, while 20 more received a weekly sham acupuncture treatment. Using various pain diagnostic methods before and after the study began, the doctors concluded that, over the study period, only those patients who completed the acupuncture treatments had a measurable decrease in their pain. "Fibromyalgia is a devastating problem that is frustrating for both doctor and patient because there are so few treatments that offer significant improvement in symptoms," says Dillard. "As with chronic back pain, anything that you can do to help these patients, particularly if it doesn't require the use of more drugs, becomes an important contribution to their treatment and care," says Dillard. This study, he says, is an important step in expanding the boundaries of treatment for patients with fibromyalgia. SOURCES: Interviews with Charis F. Meng, M.D., rheumatologist, Integrated and Complementary Care Center, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York City; and James Dillard, M.D., medical director of the alternative medicine program, Oxford Health Plans and assistant clinical professor, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York City; November 11, 2001 paper, American College of Rheumatology 65th Annual Scientific Meeting Copyright © 2001 ScoutNews, LLC. All rights reserved. Colette Bouchez, HealthScoutNews Reporter Back to top 4. Headache/ Migraine Acupuncture for Headaches and Head Pain What are headaches? Simply defined, a headache is a pain in the head due to some cause. Headaches may result from any number of factors, including tension; muscle contraction; vascular problems; withdrawal from certain medications; abscesses; or injury. What types of headaches are there? Headaches fall into three main categories: tension-type, migraine and cervicogenic. Tension-type headaches are the most frequent. Patients who endure tension-type headaches usually feel mild to moderate pain on both sides of the head. The pain is usually described as tight, stiff or constricting, as if something is being wrapped around your head and squeezed tightly. While migraines affect far fewer people than tension-type headaches and have a much shorter duration, their symptoms are much more severe. They typically affect women more frequently than men, with pain that usually occurs on one side of the head. Migraines can be so severe that they can cause loss of appetite, blurred vision, nausea and even vomiting. Cervicogenic headaches are the most recently diagnosed type of headache and are musculoskeletal in nature. They may be caused by pain in the neck or spine that is transferred to the head. Many times, cervicogenic headaches go undiagnosed because of their recent classification. Who suffers from headaches? Nearly everyone will suffer a headache at some point in time. They are one of the most common physical complaints that prompt people to treat themselves or seek professional assistance. Some estimates say that up to 50 million Americans suffer from sever, long-lasting, recurring headaches. While most headaches are not necessarily symptomatic of another condition, they can be very distracting and account for significant amounts of time lost from work. What can acupuncture do for headaches? Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has a very consistent and philosophically-based framework for headache etiology, physiology, diagnosis and treatment strategy. Acupuncture, as an effective treatment modality, has been applied to headaches from the earliest beginnings of TCM. Acupuncture is not only effective for migraine headaches, but also works very well with tension headaches, cluster headaches, post-traumatic headaches, and disease-related headaches that might be due to sinus problems, high blood pressure or sleeping disorders. The greatest advantage of acupuncture over Western medicine is that it does virtually no harm. Some medications can have serious side effects and can (in some instances) actually lead to patients experiencing a "rebound" headache. Unlike synthetic drugs, acupuncture has virtually no side effects, and the procedures for treating headaches are much less invasive with acupuncture than with surgery. References * Carlsson J, Fahlcrantz A, Augustinsson LE. Muscle tenderness in tension headache treated with acupuncture or physiotherapy. Cephalalgia 1990;10:131-141. * Hesse J, Mogelvang B, Simonsen H. Acupuncture versus metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis: a randomized trial of trigger point inactivation. J Internal Med 1994;235:451-456. * Vincent CA. A controlled trial of the treatment of migraine by acupuncture. Clin J Pain 1989;5:305-312. * Vincent CA. The treatment of tension headache by acupuncture: a controlled single-case design with time series analysis. J Psychosomatic Res 1990;34:553-561. * Zhang L, Li L. 202 cases of headache treated with electroacupuncture. J Tradit Chin Med 1995;15(2):124-126. Acupuncture Today Back to top 5. Knee Pain Acupuncture and Knee Pain What is knee pain? Knee pain is a fairly common complaint among both children and adults. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, more than 11 million visits are made to physicians' offices each year because of a knee or knee-related problem. It is the most often treated anatomical site by orthopedists, and one of the most oft-examined sites among general practitioners. The knee is the largest joint in the body. It is made up of the lower end of the thighbone (or femur), which rotates on the upper end of the shinbone (tibia), and the kneecap, which slides in a grove on the end of the femur. The knee joint also contains several muscles, which straighten the leg and bend the leg at the knee; tendons, which attach the muscles to the bones; ligaments, which help control motion by connecting bones; and cartilage, which serves to cushion the knee or help it absorb shock during motion. Because of its size, and because it is such a complex structure, it is also one of the most frequently injured joints. Knee injuries can be caused by several factors. Most complaints of knee pain result from some form of trauma, such as a torn or ruptured ligament; a broken or fractured kneecap; torn cartilage; or an accident that causes damage to the area or strains the knee beyond its normal range of motion. Other conditions that can lead to knee pain are infections; arthritis; hemarthrosis (blood in the knee joint); cysts; and bone tumors. Being overweight can also contribute to knee problems by causing excess strain on ligaments and cartilage. Who suffers from knee pain? Many athletes experience knee injuries, particularly to the knee ligaments. Nearly everyone has become familiar with the acronym ACL, which stands for anterior cruciate ligament. ACL tears can be caused by rapidly twisting or changing directions; slowing down when running; or landing from a jump. Injuries to the medial collateral ligament (MCL) are usually caused by contact on the outside of the knee. Knee pain isn't restricted to professional athletes, however. As people get older, the amount of cartilage in the knee decreases, and many ligaments begin to lose some of their elasticity, making them more susceptible to pain and/or injury. What can acupuncture do? Studies have shown acupuncture to be effective in relieving certain types of knee pain, especially arthritic conditions of the knee and knee joint. A 1999 study comparing electroacupuncture to ice massage and transcutaneous nerve stimulation (TENS) for subjects with osteoarthritis found that acupuncture decreased pain and stiffness levels and increased muscle strength and flexion in the knee. Another study published that same year suggested that patients with patellofemoral pain syndrome might benefit from weekly acupuncture treatments. Smaller studies have confirmed that acupuncture is beneficial in reducing knee pain, stiffness and physical disability in patients with knee and knee-related problems. It can ease the discomfort some subjects feel while waiting for knee surgery, and in some cases, it may even be considered an alternative to surgery. As with any other form of care, however, remember that not all patients will respond to acupuncture. Make sure to discuss the situation thoroughly with your acupuncturist before undergoing treatment for knee/leg pain (or any other condition). References * Ernst E, Lee MH. Sympathetic effects of manual and electrical acupuncture of the tsusanli knee point: comparison with the hoku hand point sympathetic effects. Exp Neurol Oct 1986;94(1):1-10. * Fang Z. Arthralgia treated by acupuncture within "chifu" area. J Tradit Chin Med Sep 1999;19(3):207-9. * Jensen R, Gothesen O, Liseth K, Baerheim A. Acupuncture treatment of patellofemoral pain syndrome. J Altern Complement Med Dec 1999;5(6):521-7. * Myhal D, Lebel E, Leung CY, Camerlain M. Radioisotope study of the effect of acupuncture on the articular vascularization of the knee. Union Med Can Dec 1981;110(12):1046-8. French. * Shafshak TS. Electroacupuncture and exercise in body weight reduction and their application in rehabilitating patients with knee osteoarthritis. Am J Chin Med 1995;23(1):15-25. * Wu ZM, Chen CG. Treatment of hydrarthrosis of the knee with manual manipulation and herbs. J Tradit Chin Med Dec 1998;8(4):251-3. * Yurtkuran M, Kocagil T. TENS, electroacupuncture and ice massage: comparison of treatment for osteoarthritis of the knee. Am J Acupunct 1999;27(3-4):133-40. * Zhang WB, Aukland K, Lund T, Wiig H. Distribution of interstitial fluid pressure and fluid volumes in hind-limb skin of rats: relation to meridians? Clin Physiol May 2000;20(3):242-9. Acupuncture Today Back to top 6. Neck Pain/ Stiffness Acupuncture for Neck Pain What is neck pain? Neck pain is a common condition — so common, in fact, that the expression "a pain in the neck" is an oft-used figure of speech in English. It can be mild enough so that it is a mere annoyance, or severe enough that it can adversely affect the quality of one's life. Because of its position and range of motion, and because it plays a vital role in the support of the head, the neck is more subject to injury than any other portion of the spine. While it is much less frequent than back pain, neck pain can occasionally be severe enough to warrant attention from a licensed health professional. Neck pain can have a variety of causes. Keeping your head in an awkward position can cause your neck muscles to fatigue and the joints in your neck to "lock" in place, causing discomfort, stiffness and limited range of motion. Neck pain can also be caused by a sudden force (such as an automobile accident), or a medical condition (swelling, disease, tumors, bleeding, inflammation, etc.). Some neck pain can also cause headaches (see the "Acupuncture for Headaches and Head Pain" section for more information). Who suffers from neck pain? Almost everyone will experience some sort of neck pain or stiffness during their lifetime; however, certain occupations appear to be predisposed to neck symptoms. Manual laborers, for instance, have more symptoms than office workers, and the type of work seems to affect the risk. A person's age and a history of twisting and bending during work can also contribute. Workers who have been required to do repetitive tasks with their upper extremities, or who undergo periods of prolonged sitting with their head in a flexed position (such as typing on a keyboard at a desk) are at risk of developing mechanical neck pain. What can acupuncture do for neck pain? Studies have shown acupuncture to be effective in relieving certain types of neck pain, particularly those caused by whiplash. Some studies suggest acupuncture can treat degenerative neck disorders such as ankylosing spondylosis and cervical spondylosis; in many cases, acupuncture has worked for patients whose conditions could not be solved using conventional approaches. Acupressure and herbal medicine are sometimes used in conjunction with acupuncture for neck pain. Applying acupressure to the neck muscles can reduce spasm and lessen pain, leading to a relaxed state and a heightened sense of well-being. Depending on the patient's condition, certain herbal products can be used to improve circulation and blood flow and ease muscle contraction. References * Coan RM, Wong G, Coan PL. The acupuncture treatment of neck pain: a randomized controlled study. Amer J Chin Med 1982;9:326-332. * David J, Modi S, Aluko AA, Robertshaw C, Farebrother J. Chronic neck pain: a comparison of acupuncture treatment and physiotherapy. British Journal of Rheumatology 1998;37:1118-1122. * Hansen JA. A comparative study of two methods of acupuncture treatment for neck and shoulder pain. Acupuncture in Medicine 1997;15:71-73. * Ross J, White A, Ernst E. Western, minimal acupuncture for neck pain: a cohort study. Acupuncture in Medicine 1999;17:5-8. * White AR, Ernst E. A systematic review of randomized controlled trials of acupuncture for neck pain. Rheumatology (Oxford) 1999;38:143-147. Acupuncture Today Back to top A Gift For You:
$35.00 GROUP THERAPY More Free shipping on all orders over $100.00 within the 48 continental United States. Excludes 
Canada. Home | About us | Products | Office Hours | Map | Appointments | 