
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 11:32:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Content-Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Last-Modified: Sun, 29 Jan 2012 07:07:04 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Biofeedback Home New Articles Privacy Policy and Contact Wisdom Archive Affirmations Law of Attraction Personal Faith Psychic Development Spiritual Growth Spiritual Guidance Spiritual Inspiration Spirituality and Science Dreams More Wisdom Deeksha Even more Wisdom 2012 - Year 2012 Aura Buddhism Archives Chakras Consciousness Dream Dictionary Dream Interpretation Essential Oils Feng Shui Flower Essences Flower Essences God and Religion Hinduism Archives Karma Kundalini Kundalini Yoga Life after death Mayan Calendar Meaning of Dreams Numerology Psychic Ability Spiritual Awakening Spiritual Healing Womens Spirituality Yoga Positions 0125 Biofeedback A Wisdom Archive on Biofeedback Biofeedback A selection of articles related to Biofeedback: Urinary incontinence - Exercises. Kegel exercises to strengthen or retrain pelvic floor muscles and sphincter muscles can reduce or cure stress leakage. Women of all ages can learn and practice these exercises, which are taught by a health care professional The word "biofeedback" was coined in the late 1969 to describe laboratory procedures that trained research subjects to alter brain activity, blood pressure, muscle tension, heart rate and other bodily functions that are not normally controlled voluntarily. Biofeedback is a training technique in which people are taught to improve their health and performance by using signals from their own bodies.Read more here: » Biofeedback: What is Biofeedback? See this and more articles and videos below. More material related to Biofeedback can be found here: Index of Articles related to Biofeedback Glossary related to Biofeedback biofeedback , Biofeedback , Biofeedback - Criticisms , Biofeedback - Origins of biofeedback , Biofeedback - Possible beneficial side effects , Biofeedback - Types of biofeedback » Page 1 « Page 2 Page 3 ARTICLES RELATED TO Biofeedback Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Biofeedback - Origins of biofeedback Neal Miller, a psychology Ph.d and neuroscientist who worked and studied at Yale, is generally considered to be the father of modern-day biofeedback. He came across the basic principles of biofeedback when doing animal experimentation conditioning the behavior of rats. His team found that, by stimulating the pleasure centers of the rats' brains with electricity, it was possible to train rats to control phenomena ranging from their heart rates to their brainwaves. Until that point, it was believed that bodily processes like heart rate were under the control of the autonomic ner ... See also: Biofeedback , Biofeedback - Origins of biofeedback , Biofeedback - Types of biofeedback , Biofeedback - Criticisms , Biofeedback - Possible beneficial side effects Read more here: » Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Biofeedback - Origins of biofeedback Biofeedback: What is Biofeedback? The word "biofeedback" was coined in the late 1969 to describe laboratory procedures that trained research subjects to alter brain activity, blood pressure, muscle tension, heart rate and other bodily functions that are not normally controlled voluntarily. Biofeedback is a training technique in which people are taught to improve their health and performance by using signals from their own bodies. Read more here: » Biofeedback: What is Biofeedback? Videos - biofeedback Part 1 Biofeedback Training with Dr. Carla Fry Biofeedback Training #1 Healing Rhythms (Wild Divine Project) Teaching Module to help clients understand how to use biofeedback Biofeedback TVP2 EEG Biofeedback w TVP2 Play Video Games with Biofeedback Advancer Technologies' "USB Biofeedback Game Controller" harnesses the power of electromyography to allow players to d... What is Biofeedback-What is Neurofeedback -Part 1 of 6 - Early History & Sensors Introduction to Biofeedback & its clinical, consumer and sports applications by Dr. Hal Myers Part 1 of 6 ... It also detail... Related Articles Viewing Aura Colors Through Biofeedback Many people hear the term "aura cameras" and assume that the technology is false.  After all, for years, auras were relegated to the visions of psychics who claimed to be able to see auras around people.  This was subject to much criticism from skeptics who were quick to ask for scientific proof that could not be provided by those who had this ability. The Hawthorne Effect in EEG Biofeedback & Subliminal Training.. The Hawthorne Effect is a little known phenomenon of the unconscious mind. A person starts training at something "new". For a few hours or days, there is significant improvement in this training, then, suddenly, no improvement or in some few cases, a reverse in training is experienced. All About Biofeedback Devices Devices that are helpful in offering a feedback about the biology of our body is known as biofeedback devices. There are a number of bio-feedback devices that are used and this includes X-Rays, PET's, EEG's, MRI's and EKG's. A simple thermometer can also be included within the broad category of biofeedback devices. All the various devices of bio-feedback help in providing information about the working of our body in an easy manner. Biofeedback Therapy for Migraine This is an article about Biofeedback Therapy. Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Treatment of incontinence Urinary incontinence - Exercises. 
Kegel exercises to strengthen or retrain pelvic floor muscles and sphincter muscles can reduce or cure stress leakage. Women of all ages can learn and practice these exercises, which are taught by a health care professional.
Most Kegel exercises do not require equipment. However, one technique involves the use of weighted cones. For this exercise, the patient stands and holds a cone-shaped object within her vagina. As the patient becomes accustomed to the weight, cones of increasing weight are substi ... See also: Urinary incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urinary incontinence in women , Urinary incontinence - Resources , Urinary incontinence - Types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Stress incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urge incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Functional incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Overflow incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Other types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Diagnosis of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Treatment of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Exercises , Urinary incontinence - Electrical stimulation , Urinary incontinence - Biofeedback , Urinary incontinence - Timed voiding or bladder training , Read more here: » Urinary incontinence: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Treatment of incontinence Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Urinary incontinence in women Women experience incontinence twice as often as men. Pregnancy and childbirth, menopause, and the structure of the female urinary tract account for this difference. But both women and men can become incontinent from neurologic injury, birth defects, strokes, multiple sclerosis, and physical problems associated with aging.
While urinary incontince affects older women more often than younger women, the onset of incontinence is not inevitable with age. Incontinence is treatable and often curable at all ages.
Women w ... See also: Urinary incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urinary incontinence in women , Urinary incontinence - Resources , Urinary incontinence - Types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Stress incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urge incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Functional incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Overflow incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Other types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Diagnosis of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Treatment of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Exercises , Urinary incontinence - Electrical stimulation , Urinary incontinence - Biofeedback , Urinary incontinence - Timed voiding or bladder training , Read more here: » Urinary incontinence: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Urinary incontinence in women Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Types of incontinence Urinary incontinence - Stress incontinence. 
Stress incontinence is incontinence that is caused by actions such as coughing, laughing, sneezing, exercising or other movements that increase intrabdominal pressure and thus increase pressure on the bladder. Physical changes resulting from pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause often cause stress incontinence. It is the most common form of incontinence in women and is treatable.
The bladder is supported by muscles of the pelvic floor. If these muscles weaken, the ... See also: Urinary incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urinary incontinence in women , Urinary incontinence - Resources , Urinary incontinence - Types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Stress incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urge incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Functional incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Overflow incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Other types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Diagnosis of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Treatment of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Exercises , Urinary incontinence - Electrical stimulation , Urinary incontinence - Biofeedback , Urinary incontinence - Timed voiding or bladder training , Read more here: » Urinary incontinence: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Types of incontinence Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Diagnosis of incontinence Patients with incontinence should be referred to a medical practitioner specializing in this field. Urologists specialize in the urinary tract, and some urologists further specialize in the female urinary tract. Gynecologists and obstetricians specialize in the female reproductive tract and childbirth. A urogynecologist focuses on urological problems in women. Family practitioners and internists see patients for all kinds of ... See also: Urinary incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urinary incontinence in women , Urinary incontinence - Resources , Urinary incontinence - Types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Stress incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Urge incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Functional incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Overflow incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Other types of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Diagnosis of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Treatment of incontinence , Urinary incontinence - Exercises , Urinary incontinence - Electrical stimulation , Urinary incontinence - Biofeedback , Urinary incontinence - Timed voiding or bladder training , Read more here: » Urinary incontinence: Encyclopedia II - Urinary incontinence - Diagnosis of incontinence Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Human Potential Movement - Criticism The movement has received criticism in two forms. The first is from researchers in psychology, medicine, and science who often dismiss the movement as being grounded in pseudoscience, overusing psychobabble, and whose efficacy can be explained entirely by placebo. This criticism was expressed by Richard Feynman's response to his visit at Esalen.
However, a technique may still be useful despite a pseudoscientific or religious background. The crucial point is whether critics are correct in asserting that the techniques of the human pote ... See also: Human Potential Movement , Human Potential Movement - Roots , Human Potential Movement - Relationship to other fields , Human Potential Movement - Esalen , Human Potential Movement - Criticism , Human Potential Movement - Notable figures Read more here: » Human Potential Movement: Encyclopedia II - Human Potential Movement - Criticism Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Raynaud's disease - Treatment The severity of the disease runs from mild to severe. In people with mild cases, this may be simply an annoyance. More serious cases require medical intervention due to the risks of gangrene and possible digital amputation. Microvascular surgery of the affected areas is a possible therapy.
Treatment for Raynaud's disease may include prescription medicines that enlarge blood vessels, such as calcium channel blockers (nifedipine). Mild cases of Raynaud's can be addressed by biofeedback or a technique to help control involuntary body fun ... See also: Raynaud's disease , Raynaud's disease - Symptoms , Raynaud's disease - Disease vs. Phenomenon , Raynaud's disease - Primary Raynaud's disease , Raynaud's disease - Secondary Raynaud's phenomenon , Raynaud's disease - Prevention , Raynaud's disease - Treatment , Raynaud's disease - Reference Read more here: » Raynaud's disease: Encyclopedia II - Raynaud's disease - Treatment Biofeedback: Encyclopedia II - Lord of Light - Plot Lord of Light is set on a planet colonized by the remnants of a destroyed "Urath", Earth. The crew and colonists from the Star of India found themselves on a strange planet surrounded by hostile indigenous races and must carve a place for themselves or perish. To increase their chances of survival the crew used chemical treatments, biofeedback and electronics to manipulate their minds to manifest superhuman powers. The available technologies also allowed near-immortality through reincarnation using the growth of ne ... See also: Lord of Light , Lord of Light - Structure , Lord of Light - Plot , Lord of Light - The Stories , Lord of Light - Characters , Lord of Light - Major Characters , Lord of Light - Minor Characters , Lord of Light - Film version , Lord of Light - Song Read more here: » Lord of Light: Encyclopedia II - Lord of Light - Plot » Page 1 « Page 2 Page 3 More material related to Biofeedback can be found here: Index of Articles related to Biofeedback Glossary related to Biofeedback Related Articles Biofeedback- An effective therapy Biofeedback is an exciting Breakthrough to healing Physical and Emotional Dysfunctions. It effectively helps the people to deal with the stress of migraines and teach a patient how to lower the body temperature, lower the heart rate and decrease the amount of sweating and muscle tension. So don’t delay be relaxed and keep the stress away to you by relying on Biofeedback. Mind Used For Improving Health Conditions By The Use Of Biofeedback Medical conditions of certain types are treated by the process of biofeedback through the use of minds. The power of the mind is harnessed by bio-feedback so that it can improve the health conditions of a person. The mind-body therapy is used by biofeedback and it is considered to be an alternative and complementary form of medicine. The bodily functions of a person are controlled with the use of one's thought processes and will power. The Hawthorne Effect in EEG Biofeedback & Subliminal Training.. The Hawthorne Effect is a little known phenomenon of the unconscious mind. A person starts training at something "new". For a few hours or days, there is significant improvement in this training, then, suddenly, no improvement or in some few cases, a reverse in training is experienced. The Use of Biofeedback Devices in Hypnotherapy and Psychotherapy How can biofeedback devices such as the Galvanic Skin Response meter be used within a psychotherapy/hypn- otherapy session? Paul Reed is a hypnotherapist, psychotherapist and Master NLP Practitioner who occasionally used GSR meters in sessions with clients. Videos - biofeedback Play Video Games with Biofeedback Advancer Technologies' "USB Biofeedback Game Controller" harnesses the power of electromyography to allow players to d... What is Biofeedback and Neurofeedback? A Mind Media video featuring NeXus-10 and NeXus-32 www.mindmedia.nl Watch this biofeedback video to learn more about how and why biofeedback therapy and neurofeedback training wor... Biofeedback Therapy in Boston from the ABC WCVB-TV CitiLine "Stress" sho