
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 14:27:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Natural Remedies For Colds and Flu HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Personal Health Information and Self-Help » Colds and the Flu » Natural Remedies For Colds and Flu 74 rate or flag By jimmythejock AaaaaaChhhoooooo!!! Colds and Flu Winter brings dismal weather, dark mornings and dark evenings, you go out to work in the dark and return home after a hard day in the dark, only seeing the light of day at weekends if the weather is not overcast and of course to add to the misery of winter cold and flu bugs are rife making you feel as miserable as the weather outside your window. Coughing and sneezing, sore joints, sore head, sweating and feeling cold at the same time, when you talk your voice comes out as a squeak. The main problem with Colds and Flu is that although there are many products on the market to ease the symptoms,there isn't actually a cure. The Flu Virus Guide to Natural Remedies for Colds and Flu Amazon Price: $0.99 The Bible Cure For Colds and Flu: Ancient truths, natural remedies and the latest findings for your health today (New Bible Cure (Siloam)) Amazon Price: $1.15 List Price: $6.99 Symptoms of The Common Cold The Common cold has many forms and the symptoms vary from person to person, the most common symptoms can include a Blocked or runny nose, sneezing, coughing, raspy throat, hoarseness, headaches, a feeling of tiredness and stiff joints. The common cold can last anything between 24 hours and ten days. Symptoms of Flu Flu or Influenza is more debillitating than the common cold and although some of the symptoms are similar the flu can be deadly in older people, babies and people who are already weakend by a Previous illness. Some typical Flu symptoms include Fever usualy 100-103 F in adults and it can be even higher in children. Stuffed or runny nose, coughing, sneezing, headaches, muscleache and extreme fatigue, other symtoms can include sickness and diarrhea. Flu normally runs its course between one and two weeks but in the elderly or infirm as stated earlier flu can lead to more serious conditions such as pneumonia. Cold and Flue Remedies Easing the Symptoms Naturally If you walk into any Pharmacy looking for a cure for the common cold or flu you will find yourself slightly perplexed as there are a multitude of remedies to suit every symptom, but altough these products do a good job they only deal with one or two of the symptoms, leaving the pharmacy you find that you have bought five or six different products spending around $40.00, This can pose an even more serious problem because when you read the list of ingredients in each product you find that most of them contain Paracetemol which although an effective pain killer, can kill if too much is taken. Natural Remedies There is no cure for The Common Cold or for The Flu, but there are many ways that you can use to ease the symptoms of each without the use of chemicals, Natural remedies are just as or even more effective than those that you buy at the pharmacy but you can make them yourself and save a few dollars in the process. Lemon Juice Traditional Medicinals Just for Kids Organic Cold Care Herbal Tea,18-Count Wrapped Tea Bags (Pack of 6) Amazon Price: $22.03 List Price: $33.00 Triple Leaf Tea, Tea Bags, Cold & Flu Time, 1.4-Ounce Bags, 20-Count Boxes (Pack of 6) Amazon Price: $15.60 List Price: $26.49 Yogi Cold Season, Herbal Tea Supplement, 16-Count Tea Bags (Pack of 6) Amazon Price: $18.07 List Price: $27.00 Ice to ease a Sore Throat Throat and Cough Remedies Honey and Lemon Drink Boiling the kettle and filling a cup with boiling water and adding a teaspoon of honey and a teaspoon of lemon juice is one of the most popular and widely used methods. Honey and lemon help to relieve a sore throat and coughs. as honey is sticky it is believed that it leaves a light coating in your throat which helps to ease the friction of coughing and reduces the raspiness in a sore throat making it easier to swallow. the lemon in the drink Is said to break up Phlem in the throat and nasal passages clearing your throat easing coughing and pain. Taking a honey and lemon drink 3 times a day and especially around an hour before you go to bed should help you through the day and night. Herbal Teas Herbal teas can be very expensive but very effective in easing the symptoms of colds and flu but you can make your own if money is tight, make your cup of tea as normal but don't add milk. a pinch of sage and a pinch of thyme to help ease the symptoms of coughing and a sore throat. The sage acts as an antisceptic which kills germs and the Thyme inhibits the growth of microbes which thrive when you have a cold or flu, allow steeping for 30 minutes. Drink warm. This tea is good for soothing coughs, sore throats and tonsils, whilst also killing germs. Water Water or to be more exact Ice is a good way to relieve the pain of a sore throat, if you prefer you can add a little orange juice or lemon juice to the water before you put it in the freezer to give it more flavour. As part of the treatment in Hospital when you have your tonsils removed Ice is given to patients to help in pain relief. Salt and Water A teaspoon of salt added to a glass of water is another way to help a sore throat or a cough, do not drink it though, gargle in your mouth for around 30 seconds, this helps to break up Phlem easing the raspiness of coughing and throat pain. Eucalyptus oil Easing a Blocked or Runny Nose Naturally Boiling the kettle and pouring the water into a mixing bowl adding a dash of eucalyptus oil and Menthol essential oils is a great remedy to clear the sinuses, put a dry towel over your head, lean toward the bowl and put the towel around the outside of the bowl, Breath in as deep as possible through your nose and breath out through your mouth. The eucalyptus oil and the menthol are a fast and effective method of clearing your sinuses. Peppermint Oil For Headaches Natural Headache Cures The herb rosemary has been found valuable in easing headaches resulting from a Cold or Flu. A handful of this herb should be boiled in a litre of water and put in a mug. The head should be covered with a towel and the steam inhaled for as long as the patient can bear. This should be repeated till the headache is relieved. you could also add rosemary to the eucalyptus and menthol essential oils above to clear blocked sinuses and relieve your headache at the same time. Peppermint Massage To relieve headache pressure and pain caused by sinus congestion have someone gently massage your shoulders and the back of your neck. This treatment often unblocks congestion in the sinuses. Massage combined drops of peppermint oil and wintergreen oil into the temples and nape of the neck to relieve tension. Massage sinus region of the face to relieve sinus headaches. Sleep Fluids and Warmth The most natural remedy for colds and Flu is to take plenty of rest and drink plenty of fluids, keeping warm and cosy. when we suffer from Colds and Flu our bodies naturally crave warmth, rest and fluids and by ignoring our bodies messages we prolonge the life of the virus. FAMILY CARE HUMIDIFIER MICCROBAN COOL MIST  COOL MOISTURE FOR COLDS AND FLU Current Bid: $19.99 1964  Bayer Aspirin for colds and flu   ad (# 4510) Current Bid: $16.95 Herbal Zap is an instant Ayurvedic drink vs Colds and Flu     $ 15.88 for 10-pk Current Bid: $15.88 ELDERBERRIES (1 lb) For colds, coughs, flu, cholesterol, heart health, and more! Current Bid: $16.50 vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful (3) Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Comments Loading... naturman 4 months ago There is no cure for the flu, however people with an underlinning illness like asthma should have the flu jab now. KatieBaloo 4 months ago Great Post! xiao 6 months ago so ice can ease sore throat? won't it make it worse? well, i shall try it. Staci-Barbo7 2 years ago Jimmy, I agree that a natural approach is much better than quashing symptoms with chemicals that can actually be dangerous to your health.  Your suggestions are great.  Peppermint and eucalyptus oil are definitely the best for that awful sinus & chest congestion - suddenly you feel like you can breathe from your TOES. I also take Vitamin C (Emergen-C) and get out in the sunshine at the FIRST hint of cold symptoms.  It usually completely halts the progression of the symptoms. Steve Orris 3 years ago Oh no, this advise will never do.  I'd rather use man-made chemicals to cover up symptoms rather than these things to get rid of the source of the problem. (I hope you can appreciate satire.) MR.SEO 3 years ago Very imformative information. You're really done your research. Keep up the good work. terenceyap07 3 years ago Well done, my friend. This is a very useful point of reference. *smiles* Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 94 jimmythejock From Scotland 2,535 Followers 505 Hubs Joined 5 years ago Read more Hubs by jimmythejock Contact jimmythejock Related Hubs Home Remedies for Seasonal Allergy Symptoms by Money Glitch How To Treat  And Cure A Stiff Neck To Ease The Pain by Sue Adams Therapeutic Essential Oils and Healing by Money Glitch Essential Oils For Healthy Hair by TheresaAnn How to Deal With Sinus Challenges by TheresaAnn How to prepare a home remedy for instant cold and cough... by soni2006 Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. te