< 2 µg/ml  the oral -lactams of choice are amoxicillin, cefuroxime axetil, cefprozil and  cefpodoxime. Parenteral -lactams should include penicillin (or ampicillin, or  piperacillin, but not ticarcillin), cefuroxime axetil, although this is marginal, and  cefotaxime, ceftriaxone and cefepime. Other agents which could be used include  imipenem, fluoroquinolones, and the macrolides, doxycycline and clindamycin  although their activity can be variable. When treating penicillin-resistant pneumococcus (MIC > 2 µg/ml) the best choices are  fluoroquinolones or possibly vancomycin. However, vancomycin is recommended  with caution given the fact that the experience in using this agent in RTIs is limited. Empiric management of CAP For the empiric treatment of patients who present with suspected pneumonia and who  do not require hospitalization, the following agents, in no order of preference, are  recommended (Table 2): Doxycycline, or macrolides, or a fluoroquinolone with  enhanced activity against the pneumococcus (levofloxacin, moxifloxacin and gatifloxacin). For empiric management of inpatients, a -lactam plus a macrolide or a fluoroquinolone alone is recommended. If the patient is critically ill and requires hospitalization in the ICU, the  recommendation is for a -lactam plus a macrolide or a -lactam plus a  fluoroquinolone. Very recent work is now available which does point toward a  recognition that fluoroquinolones will also be useful as single agents in ICU patients. Prediction model for identification of patient risk for persons with community-acquired pneumonia. This model may be used to help guide the initial decision on site of care; however, its use may not be appropriate for all patients with this illness and therefore should be applied in conjunction with physician judgement. Adapted from Fine MJ, et al. A prediction rule to identify low-risk patients with community-acquired pneumonia. N Engl J Med 1997; 336: 243-50. Prof. Bartlett commented that the latest IDSA Guidelines recommend that  fluoroquinolones be used for both outpatients and hospitalized patients. The justification  for this recommendation is based upon a number of important benefits provided by  fluoroquinolones, as they have been demonstrated to have good activity against the major  pulmonary pathogens including pneumococcus, H. influenzae and atypical strains. There  are data available from clinical trials to support this choice. In addition, the drugs have a  low toxicity profile and can be administered in a very convenient schedule, utilizing both  oral and parenteral formulations in a once-daily regimen. ©1998-2000 BIOMEDIS International, Ltd. All rights reserved.  Reproduction in any manner in whole