
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 12:00:00 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Traction to the low back area Home Overview Why Choose PhysioFit? Orthopedic Manual Therapy Post-Surgical Rehab Vestibular/Balance Rehab Lymphedema Therapy Women's Health Pelvic Floor Therapy Blocked Milk Duct Therapy TMJ PT for Children Sports Rehab The ATM2 Machine The Back2Life Machine Patient Testimonials Physical Therapy Pilates Pilates Gyrotonic /Gyrokinesis TRX Suspension Training Feldenkrais Personal Training Bodywork and Pilates Golf Fitness Program Senior Fitness Program Independent Gym Program Craniosacral Therapy PhysioFitness Massage Therapy Nutritional Counseling Self Pay Physical Therapy Magic Bodies Wellness Testimonials Wellness Profiles Newsletters Store Workshops/Training Contact Us Class Schedule Wellness Forms Patient Forms Injuries & Conditions Ankle Arthritis Upper Back and Neck Mid Back Lower Back Lumbar Spine Anatomy Lower Back Issues Faqs Research Articles Lower Back Surgery Exercises Cumulative Trauma Elbow Fibromyalgia Foot Hamstring Hand Hip Knee Muscle Cramps Osteoporosis Pediatric Shoulder Tendonitis Wrist Sports Activities Work Activities Injury Care Women's Health Issues Pain Care Receive relevant articles Access all content Receive our newsletter User: Password: Sign up | Forgot Password? Traction to the low back area I'm seeing a Physical Therapist for traction to the low back area. She told me it would take a few sessions to find out what kind of traction might work best for me. I thought traction was where they put you on the table, apply a harness, and the machine pulls. What other kinds are there? Your basic understanding of traction is quite accurate. But the use of traction has been modified and updated as technology has improved and as our understanding of the use of traction has changed. First, traction may be sustained (held steady) or intermittent (on and off in a repeated cycle). It may be applied manually (the therapist distracts and holds the body part) or by motorized means (on a mechanized table). The force applied may be considered a distraction or traction . Distraction tells us the therapist is attempting to use the force at a specific level or area of the spine. Traction is more of a general dispersion of the force throughout the spine. Traction can be applied with the patient in many different positions. You may be lying on your back, face down, suspended upright, or even inverted (upside down). Sometimes a special table is used to put the patient's spine in a specific posture. These tables are split with the upper portion stable and the lower portion adjustable. No harness is needed when using a split table because the force is provided by the body posture or motion of the table. It sounds like you are in good hands. Finding a therapist who understands how traction works and who doesn't just apply the same type of traction to all patients is important. However, you may want to ask your therapist more about what she meant and what is intended for future sessions. Ralph E. Gay, MD, DC, and Jeffrey S. Brault, DO, PT. Evidence-informed Management of Chronic Low Back Pain with Traction Therapy. In The Spine Journal . February 2008. Vol. 8. No. 1. Pp. 234-242. Copyright (2010) Physiofit.  All r