
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 08:33:21 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.39 (Unix)
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Helpful Alternative Therapies For Varicose Veins Home Varicose Veins Causes of  Varicose Veins Varicose Vein Treatments Self Treatment Surgery for Varicose Veins What is Sclerotherapy? Alternative medicine Laser Treatment Treat Hemorrhoids Varicose Veins & Diet Exercise & Varicose Veins Radiology for PCS Old & New Treatments Trivax PCS Treatments New Vein Technique EVLT-Risks Sclerotherapy Advances Prevent Varicose Veins Crochet Hook Phase II Trial New Tests DVT Treatment Acupuncture Holistic Medicine Plant Medicine Support Hosiery Measuring Hose Hosiery And Varicose Veins Quick Fix Microwave Therapy Diosmin 95 Latest Treatments Less Pain Varicose Therapies Green Tea Compression Stockings Clinical Trials Helpful Alternative Therapies for Varicose Veins Varicose veins generally appear on the legs-although can appear elsewhere-- in the form of swollen and distorted blood vessels. Our veins have valves which prevent blood from flowing backwards; leg muscles pump the veins which send blood to the heart, yet when veins become varicose the valves no longer work properly, allowing blood to flow backwards, thus enlarging the vein. Because the legs in particular are subject to higher pressure when standing, legs are the most common site for varicose veins. Varicose veins can become quite painful when standing for long periods or walking, and can quite often itch, sometimes severely, although serious complications are rare. Those who are obese, pregnant, going through menopause, or often stand for long periods of time may be more at risk for varicose veins, and it also appears genetics may play a part as well. Nearly 25 percent of women and a percent of men in the United States are affected by varicose veins-in some of those people the issue may be merely cosmetic, while in others varicose veins may lead to more serious complications such as phlebitis, skin ulcers or even blood clots. Medical Treatments for Varicose Veins If you are diagnosed with varicose veins, your doctor may have you wear elastic stockings, elevate the legs and exercise. The traditional surgical treatment is known as vein stripping , which removes the effective veins, however there are newer, less invasive treatments known as ablation or endovenous laser treatment; essentially the veins are removed or ablated, with few serious side effect. Regular exercise can greatly improve blood circulation to the legs, although bicycling or swimming-activities which do not pound the legs against the ground or floor-are the preferred choices. There are additionally many alternative therapies which can be extremely helpful in the treatment of varicose veins. Hydrotherapy The goal with varicose veins is to stimulate blood circulation and shrink swollen veins ; alternating hot and cold leg baths can be quite useful in improving circulation. Applying cold compresses to the legs can encourage this necessary circulation and reduce the vein swelling; adding an astringent such as apple cider vinegar or witch hazel can be added to the water for additional benefits. A "typical" hydrotherapy treatment could include filling two large buckets with water, one as hot as you can tolerate, the other as cold as you can tolerate. Soak your legs in the hot water for three minutes, remove and immediately soak your legs in the cold water for one minute, repeating four times and ending with cold water. Nutritional Therapies Vitamin C is well known for its ability to rejuvenate blood vessels; eating oranges and grapefruits with the white inner rind intact, as well as dark red and purple berries, such as cherries, blackberries, black currants, blueberries, and grapes can all prove helpful in treating varicose veins. People with varicose veins tend to have an abnormal tendency to store fibrin, which disrupts the healthy action of the blood vessels. Garlic, onions, cayenne pepper, ginger and bromelain all help to dissolve fibrin. Adequate fiber is also essential for healthy blood vessels; increase your intake of fiber by eating more vegetables, oatmeal, beans, fruits, brown rice, rye and buckwheat. Keep your weight down and add at least eight glasses of water to your daily routine. Herbal Therapies Some herbs which you may find effective in controlling your varicose veins include butcher's broom, comfrey, horse chestnut, marigold and stone root. Butcher's broom contains a substance which decreases inflammation while constricting the veins, or a compress of butcher's broom can be applied externally. St. John's wort can also reduce inflammation, either externally or internally. Witch hazel can either be taken internally as a tea, or in a strong solution as a compress; lavender can also be applied externally to reduce inflammation and help heal enlarged vessels. Rosemary has been found to strengthen and protect vessels with it antioxidants while also improving circulation and can be used in foods or in a liniment applied topically. If you are susceptible to varicose veins you could try several of the different alternative treatments available in order to see which ones work the best for you. Keeping your weight at a normal level, eating healthy and getting plenty of exercise can go a long way in the prevention and treatment of varicose veins. Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use and Disclai