<http://www.easyhealthyfeet.com/?p=218>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Cookie,User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Set-Cookie: wpgb_visit_last_php-default=1335128646; expires=Mon, 22-Apr-2013 21:04:06 GMT; path=/
Last-Modified: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 21:04:07 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Spenco Insoles Bring Comfort to Those Who Stand on the Job | Healthy Feet Home Contact Us Articles Feb 13, 2012 Posted  in Articles | 0 Comments Spenco Insoles Bring Comfort to Those Who Stand on the Job Hello there! If you are new here, you might want to subscribe to the RSS feed for updates on this topic. Many jobs require a person to stand all day, which means that the feet, ankles, knees, hips, and lower back can bring considerable discomfort by the end of the day. Help avoid that by inserting a pair of Spenco Insoles designed to cushion and comfort your tootsies while standing. For both men and women, Spenco makes Polysorb Insoles. This Insoles line are made from a lightweight, closed foam material that is injected with nitrogen to help bring support and cushioning in the same insole. The Polysorb layer is then combined with additional supportive materials to provide localized support such as through the arch and heel, and is covered in soft, antimicrobial fabric that helps fight foot odor. For those of us who stand all day to make a living, Spenco recommends one of the following Polysorb insoles: Cross Trainers, Walker Runner, Total Support, Spenco For Her Total Support, Spenco For Her Cushion Insoles with Q Factor, or the Earthbound Insoles. Each insole provides different types of support, and where you feel the fatigue or pain will determine which pair is perfect for you. All of the Spenco Polysorb Insoles have received the prestigious Seal of Acceptance from the American Podiatric Medical Association. Men and women have slightly different body structures, and those differences sometimes require women to need specialized foot care. For the specific design and alignment of the woman’s foot, Spenco offers the For Her Total Support Insoles and the For Her Cushioning Insoles with Q Factor. Both of these insoles provide all day comfort, support, and cushioning to the woman’s foot. The gel like materials in the insole absorb shock while returning energy to the striking point. The friction resistant top cloth helps reduce friction and the chance of blisters and includes an antimicrobial treatment to fight foot odor. When you are on your feet all day, treat yourself to a pair of Spenco cushioning insoles. At the end of the day, enjoy less foot fatigue, less pain in your joints and lower back, and possibly more energy to be able to go home and enjoy time with your family. Each pair of Spenco Insoles comes with a full one year unconditional guarantee. For detailed information on these Spenco Insoles and other fine foot care products, visit Direct Insoles today! Direct Insoles features Insoles, Orthotic Arch Supports and other fine quality foot care products from top brand names such as Spenco, Superfeet, Sof Sole, Arch Angels and others. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Vincent_Miceli http://EzineArticles.com/?Spenco-Insoles-Bring-Comfort-to-Those-Who-Stand-on-the-Job&id=4763802 Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Namerequired Mail (will not be published) required Website Sponsors Tag Cloud arch angels Arch Angels Insoles arch angels support arch support arch support insoles arch supports buy zetaclear calluses corns corns on feet Cracked Heel Cracked Heel Treatment cushioning insoles Diabetes feet flat feet foot foot care foot odor foot orthotic foot orthotics foot pain foot problems fungus fungus treatment heel pain Heel Treatment home remedies nail fungus on orthotic arch supports orthotics plantar fascia plantar fasciitis Podiatrist pronation Pueblo podiatrist shoes spenco spenco insoles sweaty feet toenail fungus toe nail fungus toenail fungus tre