
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 12:32:55 GMT
Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=D235B05EC4A5C683240740C9B255288D; Path=/
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: Close

Air Filters, Dehumidifiers and Humidifiers - CNN CNN EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO Sign up Log in Home Video NewsPulse U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports HEALTH MAIN LIVING WELL DIET & FITNESS MENTAL HEALTH CONDITIONS HEALTH A-Z Email Print Close This content is created or selected by the HealthGrades editorial team and is funded by an advertising sponsor. The content is subject to the HealthGrades medical review process for accuracy, balance and objectivity. The content is not edited or otherwise influenced by the advertisers appearing on this page except with the possible suggestion of the broad topic area. For more information, read the HealthGrades advertising policy. This content is selected and managed by the HealthGrades editorial staff. View All COPD Articles COPD › Air Filters, Dehumidifiers and Humidifiers Air Filters, Dehumidifiers and Humidifiers COPD Symptoms & Diagnosis Causes Treatment Lifestyle Changes Living with COPD Finding Help | View all COPD Articles » Here are some tips for understanding the air in your house and the air-quality appliances that can alter it. Air filters Purpose: Air-filtration systems pull most mold, pollen, dust mites, and other particulates out of household air. The best systems use HEPA (high-efficiency particulate absorption) filters that have multiple pleats that trap tiny particles. Such a filter can be installed in the duct adjacent to the furnace fan. They also are available as portable room units. Another kind of unit, the electronic cleaner, is especially good at sweeping mold and pollen particles from the air by catching them on an electrically charged plate. The type of air cleaner known as an ionizer produces electrically charged ions that bond to particles in the air and causes them to cling to walls, ceilings, and drapes. Filter systems improve air quality by removing pollutants. HEPA systems can be up to 99.9 percent efficient in removing floating particles from the air. Compare this with regular furnace filters, which are only 10 percent efficient in removing lint from the air. For a filtration system to be fully effective, it needs to run 24 hours a day. Health benefits: A good air-filtration system can make a difference for people with severe allergies or asthma, but it's not a necessity for the average person. Keep in mind that studies have not proved that any filters dramatically reduce allergy or asthma symptoms. The best possible benefit may come from HEPA filters. So before you invest a lot of money, make sure you take other steps first. In general, families with allergy problems should first look for and eliminate or contain the source of the problem: pets, rugs, dust mites, and moldy areas in the home are the first suspects. Disadvantages: Air-filtration systems need to be meticulously maintained. Changing the filters according to the manufacturers' instructions is critical to the success of the system. Also, these systems are no substitute for good indoor hygiene. If you have a cat, dog, or old rugs, your house is dusty, or you leave your windows open, the filtration system cannot do its work well. Some systems with smaller motors are noisy, especially for the bedroom. They don't turn the air over as quickly and as efficiently as larger units. In the case of ionizers, the particulates that were sent clinging to your walls, ceilings, and drapes fall off in a few days, back into your breathing environment. Dehumidifiers Purpose: Dehumidifiers remove moisture from the air. This curbs the growth of mold and dust mites. They are particularly useful in parts of the house where humidity collects, such as damp basements. Dehumidifiers draw air over cold coils, condensing out its moisture, before passing the air over warm coils and back into the room. (Air conditioners also take a certain amount of moisture out of the air, but dehumidifiers do so much more efficiently.) The condensed water drips into a container in the unit that has to be emptied. The water can be routed directly to a drain by means of a hose. Home dehumidifiers remove between 10 and 50 pints of water from the air each day, depending on the relative humidity. The capacity of a unit is measured by the number of pints it can remove in a 24-hour period at 60 percent relative humidity and at 80 degrees. Harmful dust mites, those microscopic organisms that particularly aggravate allergy and asthma sufferers, thrive in high humidity. They live in your bedclothes, your drapes, your rugs, and the air in your home. Removing excessive moisture from indoor air helps control these pests. Dehumidifiers also can help limit mold and bacterial growth. Health benefits: Dehumidifiers are critical for households in humid climates with very old people or very young children, or for families with a history of allergies or asthma. In their first two years of life, children spend a lot of time on the floor or rug. If you have a 10-year-old rug, it likely has a host of dust mites that thrive in the high humidity. And the more you are exposed to something to which you have a genetic tendency to be allergic, the more likely you are to become allergic to it, whether it's mold, bacteria, or dust mites. ‹ Previous 1 2 Next › Spotlight on COPD Can You Drink with COPD? 8 Common Complications of COPD Medications for COPD Should You Use an Air Filter? 9 Tips to Quit Smoking Glossary of COPD Terms View All Terms Allergen , Antiprotease , Asthma , Bronchitis , Bronchodilator , COPD , Cor Pulmonale , Cystic Fibrosis , Decongestant , Diaphragm , Elastin , Emphysema , Humidifier , Hyperinflation , Inflammation , Inhaler , Oxygen , Pneumonia , Respiration Reference: Lungs, Breathing and Respiration section
on Better Medicine Your Guide to COPD COPD Symptoms & Diagnosis Causes Treatment Lifestyle Changes Living with COPD Finding Help The Buzz about COPD Take a Breathing Health Test Personal Story: From Patient to Patience Celebrities Affected by Lung Disease Does COPD Increase the Risk of Lung Cancer? What to Eat with COPD View All COPD Articles Harvard Logo Expert Advice from Harvard Medical School Exercise Prescription for COPD › COPD Features Why COPD is Worse for Women Take a Breathing Health Test Could You Have COPD and Not Know It? 5 Celebrities Affected by Lung Disease Does COPD Increase the Risk of Lung Cancer? What to Eat with COPD Do You Have a Chronic Condition? Did You Know? View Source Close Medical Reviewer: Akin, Louise RN, BSN Medical Reviewer: Pierce-Smith, Daphne RN, MSN, CCRC, FNP Copyright: © Health Ink & Vitality Communications Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive disease that makes it difficult to breathe. A. True B. False Submit Correct! Incorrect Answer: True. COPD is a progressive disease, which means it gets worse over time. Smoking is the most common cause of COPD. Chronic bronchitis and emphysema are the two main conditions of COPD in the United States. In fact, most people who have COPD have both conditions. Learn More About Emphysema, Take the Quiz › More Health Resources Walking aids for multiple sclerosis What RA does to your body Can you eat to beat psoriasis? Language exercises after stroke Tips for schizophrenia caregivers Find More on Better Medicine Myth or Fact? Test Your Vision IQ 9 Risk Factors for Lung Cancer How to Prevent Osteoporosis Weather forecast Home | Video | NewsPulse | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Work With Us | Tools & Widgets | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Radio | CNN Shop | Site map CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN Expansion | | | | CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts © 2010 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Advertising 