Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture: Introduction to acupuncture and its history Home What
      can we treat? Therapies Doctors Finding
      us Articles Useful links Research Site
      map Patient Guidance Treatments which may be used in Complementary and Integrated Medicine Acupuncture Links within this treatment: Acupunture: Introduction How Acupuncture works What can Acupunture treat? Other treatments: Main Therapies page Introduction Acupuncture has probably been practised in China for some 3,500 years,
        but the exact date of its origin is difficult to determine. The first
        medical textbook on acupuncture is called the Nei Ching Su Wen; this
        literally means the 'Yellow Emperor's Classical Internal Medicine' and
        it dates from about 400 BC. Acupuncture has been known to Western doctors
        since the Jesuits first went to China in the 17th century, and was used
        extensively by physicians in this country in the early part of the 19th
        century. The first edition of the Lancet in 1823 carried a detailed report
        of the use of acupuncture in timpany and rheumatism, extolling the virtues
        of this technique. The author, John Elliotson, was a consultant physician
        at St Thomas's Hospital in central London. Traditional Chinese medicine The first recorded therapeutic success with acupuncture occurs in the
        'historial records' of some 2,000 years ago. Pein Chueh, a physician,
        used acupuncture to revive a dying patient already in a coma. The practice
        of acupuncture was progressively developed and refined throughout Chinese
        history until the Ching dynasty (1644-1911 AD). During
        this period acupuncture fell into disrepute and was discouraged in favour
        of Western medicine, but since the Communist revolution of 1948 has been
        revitalized and is now widely used in China. Acupuncture is one of the therapeutic techniques used in Traditional
        Chinese Medicine (TCM), which has its own complete system of anatomy,
        physiology and diagnosis: the main tenets are described in detail in
        the Nei Ching Su Wen. The traditional Chinese viewed the human body as
        a balance between two opposing forces, yin and yang: yin represents placidity
        or water, while yang represents activity or fire. If yin or yang are
        deficient or in gross excess, the balance between them is distorted and
        disease results. The Chinese concept of health can best be defined as
        a normal fluctuating balance between yin and yang; their system of diagnosis
        and therapy is designed to particularise the imbalance of yin and yang
        and correct it, thereby restoring the body to a health state. In order
        to effect this change, the Chinese insert needles into acupuncture points.
        The majority of the important acupuncture points are on 14 channels running
        over the body, each representing an internal organ. Qi, or vital energy,
        is said to flow through these channels. In disease the flow of qi is
        altered and the insertion of an acupuncture needle into an appropriate
        point is said to correct the flow of vital energy, thereby restoring
        the body to health. The Chinese also developed a very sophisticated idea of physiology, and
        specific functions were defined for each of the 12 main organs. The Nei
        Ching Su Wen states that 'the heart fills the pulse with blood….
        And the force of the pulse flows into the arteries, and the force of
        the arteries ascends into the lungs'. This describes the double circulation
        of blood some 2,000 years before William Harvey. The anatomy (acupuncture
        points and channels) and physiology of traditional Chinese medicine,
        along with a detailed examination of the pulse and tongue, provides the
        basis for TCM. A set of empirical rules are then followed in order to
        select the appropriate acupuncture points to treat disease and dispel
        the pathogens causing these imbalances. For instance, there are particular
        acupuncture points that can be used to disperse the pathogen damp that
        may be affecting the spleen. However, not all acupuncturists use a traditional Chinese approach; some
        just treat the tender points that arise in a variety of musculoskeletal
        diseases. A number of clinical trials have shown that the treatment of
        tender trigger points for painful diseases produces a defined and significantly
        useful clinical result. In the treatment of pain it is not yet clear
        which approach is the best - the traditional Chinese diagnosis or simply
        treating tender trigger points. However, in non-painful diseases, such
        as asthma or bowel disease, trigger points do not always occur and so,
        in order to perform effective acupuncture, a traditional diagnosis must
      be made and the points selected within the context of TCM. Reproduced with the kind permission of BMA Publications from
        Professor George Lewith's book, Understanding C