Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Help Stopping Smoking: Self Help To Stop Smoking > Help Stopping Smoking Home Page Information Information About Us What Is Hypnotherapy How To Use These Recordings The Hypnosis Recordings Shop - CDs and MP3s Search this site Please Enter a search term Stop Smoking Index Help For Drug Addictions Stop Smoking Now Overcome Your Drug Addiction Stop Cocaine Abuse Your Shopping Cart There are no items in your shopping cart yet Free  Relaxation MP3s You get a free set of 2 MP3 downloads when you buy this or any other product on this site. Currencies: Euro US Dollar UK Pound Help Stopping Smoking By Listening €17.95 €22.95 Stop Smoking Help is on the Way Quit smoking by just listening Reduce nicotine cravings instantly "Help Stopping Smoking" is guaranteed to help you Easy to use anytime, anywhere Smoking Kills, Be a Quitter You probably don't need an expert like Duncan McColl to remind you that smoking can kill you.  Millions of dollars is spent on anti-smoking ads and literature every year, and yet, you're still smoking.  If you need smoking help, you need the expertise that comes along with a hypnosis recording like "Help Stopping Smoking."  No matter how long you've been puffing, you can stop now. Lung cancer, mouth cancer, throat cancer, and many more diseases are directly related to smoking. You know you want to quit, but no matter how much stop smoking help you've used in the past, it never seems to stick, does it?  Well, this time is different.  This time, you're a quitter. Stop Smoking Help That Targets Your Brain When you utilize a recording like "Help Stopping Smoking," you don't have to sit and memorise ways to reduce your cravings.  You also don't have to chew on foul tasting gum or try an antidepressant to try to head off the next nic fit.  Instead, you can simply close your eyes and listen to the hypnosis in action. How does it work?  When your brain is accessed at the subconscious level, as it is with hypnosis, you are reprogramming your brain to stop smoking on its own.  You are teaching your brain to forget the taste of tar and chemicals and to start thinking about healthier habits. Who Need Stop Smoking Help? Even if you've been smoking for decades, the "Help Stopping Smoking" recording can help you.  Those brain patterns are simple to reverse once you have access to the deeper levels of your brain.  As you listen to the recording again and again, you will begin to notice your cravings dissipate and your smoking diminish, if not stop completely. Even if you've had horrible withdrawal symptoms before, that won't be the case anymore.  Since your brain won't even want the nicotine anymore, you will simply cease to smoke and become the non-smoker you never thought you could be. You Can Finally Say Goodbye to Cigarettes If you have yellowed fingers, bad breath, and you find you're spending more on cigarettes than you'd like, it's time to stop smoking.  Stop smoking help isn't as unreliable as it's been in the past.  Unlike other quitting methods that work for some, but not for others, hypnosis works on everyone who listens – even if you don't believe it at first.  This stop smoking help isn't just another gimmick – it's what your brain needs to stop the pattern cold turkey. With Duncan McColl's "Help Stopping Smoking," you have a friend in your corner with decades of experience helping others who haven't been able to stamp out their bad habit.  Your lungs will thank you and your body will continue to thank you for your much longer life. Hypnosis Recordings | Contact us | Terms of Use | 