
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 21:19:11 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

All about Acupuncture : Acupuncture Chart All about Acupuncture Acupuncture Chart Acupuncture Arlington MA Acupuncture Charts Acupuncture Clinic Acupuncture Indianapolis Acupuncture Kansas City Acupuncture Knoxville Acupuncture Manhattan Acupuncture Meridian Chart Acupuncture Meridians Acupuncture Needles Acupuncture Omaha Acupuncture Phoenix Acupuncture Point Diagram Acupuncture Points Acupuncture Portland Acupuncture Reno Acupuncture San Antonio Acupuncture St Louis Acupuncture Tacoma Acupuncture Tampa Acupuncture Ancient Chinese Acupuncture Auricular Acupuncture Canine Acupuncture Chinese Acupuncture Equine Acupuncture Malpractice Insurance Acupuncture Tennis Elbow Acupuncture Veterinary Acupuncture This article is part of a series that discuss the benefits of Acupuncture. Acupuncture Chart Due to the hectic lifestyle that many people experience today, health problems and disorders have become a 
common problem. The effects of a hectic lifestyle, such as bad eating habits, busy working schedules, no exercise etc.,
can all contribute to the increase in these health problems. 
Health disorders like blood pressure, weight gain etc, may build up slowly and steadily, without people being aware that 
these problems are happening. 
If these health problems are not taken care of at the right time, they can become severe and intense. 
However, the many medical treatments used by doctors today may bring along some kind of unwanted side effects with them. 
The ancient technique of acupunture has been used for centuries to give health benefits without side effects. 
An acupuncture chart can easily show you how the use of acupuncture will help you deal with such daily 
hassles. Acupuncture can be used to provide relief from the symptoms of many diseases and the ailments without causing any side 
effects. 
Acupuncture is done by inserting thin solid steel needles into the places on the body shown on the acupuncture chart to be linked with pain relief in the affected areas. These needles are for single time use and are available in 
sterilized packs. The treatment involves activating the pressure points and the anatomical points shown on the acupuncture chart with the use of different techniques. The experienced practitioners treat each patient 
with a new set of needles. Each set of needles come in a separate sealed pack and are hygienic and safe to use. 
However, this treatment must be obtained from an experienced and qualified practitioner. Wrong treatment can lead into 
puncturing of the organs thus inviting foreign infections. First the right pressure points and anatomical points on the patients body for the treatment of the painful symptoms have
been confirmed by the qualified practitioner from the acupuncture chart . Then the skin in the treatment 
areas is cleaned with disinfectant or some alcoholic solution before it is treated. Different acupuncture charts are available to guide the qualified practitioner with the specifications 
of the acupuncture points for different symptoms being experienced by the patient. These charts have been developed over 
hundreds of year using the results of the Chinese Therapies such as moxibution, reflexology, massage etc. 
These charts demonstrate the paths of the flow of the positive energy in the body. There are many pressure points in a human body. Each Acupuncture chart highlights on the specific part 
of the body in regard with the pressure points. Therefore there are many charts for the different parts of the body i.e. 
for stomach, feet, back, head and ears that suggests the treatment for the aliment. Before proceeding with the treatment, the patients are asked to give their details and rest of the information such 
as medical health report to their doctors. The main aim behind this to get details about the patient and to know if that 
person has had any medical allergies or if  that person is taking any medical history. 
Acupuncture can provide long-term results against irritating pains and chronic diseases. Stomach problems like acid reflux , irritable bowel problem, colitis, etc. and gynecological problems like morning 
sickness, menstrual cramps, pricking pains like neck pains, shoulder pains, muscle sprains, sciatica, respiratory problems 
like cold, asthma etc. and many more disorders can be relieved by this acupuncture technique. Magnets are used for the 
needle free treatments and are beneficial for the people who are scared of needles and electro activation pads that give 
the same effect as that of the needle treatments. After the treatments, the patient feels relaxed which also gives the feeling of weight loss. Muscle pains 
and sprains are eliminated or reduced in some cases depending on the severity of the disorder. 
Massage therapies taken along with the acupuncture therapies can work wonders. I hope this article provided you with the information and understanding you were looking for. Brian Waybridge, the author of this article, found acupuncture very beneficial for pain relief as he got older. Disclaimer All Rights Reserved | © 2001 - 2008 CherryKay Services
            Ltd. Winton House, Winton Square, Basingstoke, RG21 8EN United Kingdom Phone: UK 01633-87