Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Health benefits of aloe vera Subscribe To This Site Health Benefits of Aloe Vera Health benefits of Aloe Vera........ The Aloe plant is also known as the “lily of the desert” or the “medicine plant” and is native to Africa.The plant is approximately 96% water with the remaining 4% including amino acids, minerals, vitamins, enzymes, essential oil, and glycoproteins. The Aloe Vera extract is made from the whole of the leaves.  As far back as 1500 BC, Egyptian healers described how they used it in their notes.  Today, it is commercially grown in the Caribbean, the Mediterranean, Japan, and the United States. Health Benefits of Aloe Vera One of the most famous health benefits of Aloe Vera is it’s use for burns.  The leaf is broken and its gel or juice is then placed on the burn to prevent blisters and take away the majority of the pain. Other health benefits of Aloe Vera include healing skin ulcers, burns, (including sunburn) scrapes, insect bites and stings.  The Aloe plant is believed to help by accelerating wound healing and reducing inflammation. The gel from the Aloe plant is also used in the areas of frostbite, for itching from shingles and allergies and to help clear up warts.  Simply spread the gel gently on the irritated area and let it soak in.  Reapply as often as you like. Another health benefit of Aloe Vera is that it is used to keep the skin supple and to treat acne and eczema. The Aloe increases the oxygen to the skin and the strength of the skin tissue. Aloe Vera Juice Benefits Aloe Vera juice is made from just the inner leaf of the plant.  Aloe Vera contains 3 fatty acids that are anti-inflammatory.  This is what helps the stomach, intestines, and colon. When taken in the form of juice, Aloe Vera aids in the following areas:  inflammatory bowel disease, candida, ulcers, intestinal infections, constipation, and other digestive tract disorders, such as colitis. Always use an aloe vera supplement that is of the highest quality. The label should say that it is 90 to 100 percent Aloe Vera.  Be aware that many lotions and products that say they have aloe, actually contain very little Aloe Vera and have no health benefits. Featured Aloe Vera Supplement We have found a special formula that contains a blend of over 70 powerful nutrients to give you energy, keep your body functioning at its highest level and give you the maximum aloe vera benefits you need. It is manufactured by a top natural health provider and the product is called Total Balance. The company manufactures its products using strict pharmaceutical GMP Compliance, which is the most controlled standard for dietary supplements on the market. They also file a Certificate of Analysis (COA) for each product they make to insure the potency of the ingredients it contains. Make Total Balance with aloe vera a part of your daily regimen and feel healthier and more energetic than ever before! more than health benefits of aloe vera on our Herbal Nutriti