
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 07:33:50 GMT
Server: LiteSpeed
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Content-Type: text/html

What Disorders Can Acupuncture Treat and How Does It Work? - Alternative World Reiki Association Alternative Medicine articles What Disorders Can Acupuncture Treat and How Does It Work? How did acupuncture start? The story was met with widespread disbelief. During a visit to China in 1978, cardiologist Doctor Isadore Rosenfeld witnessed open-heart surgery on a patient, anaesthetised only with acupuncture. A major operation and the patient was awake! Nothing like it had ever been seen before in the west. But acupuncture is over 5000 years old. There is evidence that it was practiced by the ancient Egyptians. South African tribesmen scratched their bodies to cure disease and the Eskimos used a simple form of acupuncture. In ancient China the Yellow Emperor's bible on internal medicine talks about the importance of acupuncture for curing disease and restoring health. Today, in China and Taiwan there are over 232,000 traditional Chinese medical doctors practicing acupuncture. In America there are more than 8000 qualified acupuncturists, 16 acupuncture schools and 2 medical schools teaching acupuncture. As a treatment it's accepted and practiced worldwide. What ailments can acupuncture treat? Many people assume that acupuncture is used as a simple pain control technique. A technique where needles are inserted to interrupt the nerve pathways that send pain messages to the brain. But acupuncture is much more than this. It's designed to treat any malady and works to balance the energy of your entire body. Based on clinical experience, it's known that acupuncture can treat a variety of respiratory, eye and mouth, gastro-intestinal, neurological and muscular disorders. It's especially effective on headaches, migraine and back pain. Acupuncture is also used to stop smoking, lose weight, lower blood pressure, relive constipation, anxiety, insomnia, allergies, asthma and alleviate skin disorders. How can it treat all these ailments? It works by 'unblocking' and balancing your energy 'circuits'. And unlike conventional drugs, there are only beneficial side-effects such as sleeping better, more energy, deeper breathing and many other bonuses. How does acupuncture work? Acupuncture means 'to puncture with a needle'. Fine, flexible needles, about the diameter of a human hair, are inserted into points along the principal meridians of your body. Your body has a network of energy channels or 'meridians' in which your 'ki' flows. Each meridian is associated with a physiological system and internal organ. There are 12 principal meridians that run the length of your body and each one has more than 350 acupuncture points. Acupuncture points are specific locations along the meridians. Inserting a needle into a point will 'unblock' or stimulate the energy flow through the meridian in a very predictable and measured way. What happens during a treatment session? Acupucture is all part of the philosophy and practice of TCM or Traditional Chinese Medicine, which uses an intricate system of pulse and tongue diagnosis. A qualified acupuncturist will also check the 'palpation' of the acupuncture points or meridians, your medical history and any other signs or symptoms of disorder. The treatment is painless and insertion of the needles can feel like an insect bite or tiny prick. If you are sensitive you will feel warmth or energy flow and is often described as a 'buzz'. Sometimes moxibustion is used to increase the heat effect at the insertion point. A Chinese herb, 'Moxa', is placed on the needle and lit. This can stimulate the blood flow as well as the 'chi'. Is acupuncture safe? Nobody can predict the changes that will occur. Your body will do what it needs to do to heal itself. But the healing process starts with skilful diagnosis and the correct stimulation of precise acupuncture points. Acupuncture will often compliment traditional western medicine, and in the hands of a trained and properly qualified acupuncturist, you are perfectly safe. And for many people it is enjoyable too. Although the Chinese may have enjoyed the benefits of acupuncture for many centuries, the legacy of discoveries by men such as Dr Isadore Rosenfeld means we can all benefit from this wonderful treatment. Terry Dunn writes regular articles on how to use alternative therapies to improve your health. From aromatherapy to yoga, discover what it's like, how it works and how you can benefit. To read more articles, visit his website, http://www.holistichealthtalk.com RELATED ARTICLES About ADD ( Attention Deficit Disorder ), its Symptoms Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) is a condition that is usually characterized by behavioral and learning disorders. ADD generally diagnosed in children, mostly affects the boys than the girls. ADD not only occurs in childhood but also continues till adulthood in some cases. St Johns Wort: The Magickal Herb It was customary in Britain and Europe on St John's Eve (June 23), to gather certain herbs, such as St John's wort, vervain, trefoil and rue, all of which were believed to have magical properties. St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) does, in fact, have scientifically proven anti-depressant qualities. Drinks were brewed from it to cure madness, sciatica, epilepsy and paralysis. The salve made from the herb cured wounds from spears and swords - or, so it is said. What Exactly is Alternative Therapy and How Does It Boost Your Health and Well-being? My first yoga retreat Migraine and Feverfew Many people today will tell you that they suffer from migraine. Many people however don't really understand what a migraine is and they really just have a headache. How Do You Get Hemorrhoids? A lot of people don't even know they have hemorrhoids.  The rectum is not an area you can readily see.  Some times you don't know you have hemorrhoids until you see blood in the toilet water after a bowel movement, when you start to have pain or discomfort in the rectum, or when you feel extra tissue around the rectum. Endorphins ? Strong Painkillers Your Subconscious May Be Able to Provide The sources of the original "natural high," endorphins and ekephalins can nonetheless lose their ability to kill pain if the situation becomes chronic. Visualizations may be able to help your subconscious to send in reinforcements. The Natural Way To Whiten Teeth No patience for bleaching? There may be another way to get white teeth, and it's as simple as munching on an apple. Health Benefits of Hemp Oil Hemp oil  has long been recognised as one of the most versatile and beneficial substances known to man. Derived from hemp seeds (a member of the achene family of fruits) it has been regarded as a superfood due to its high essential fatty acid content and the unique ratio of omega3 to omega6 and gamma linolenic acid (GLA) - 2:5:1. Organic Juices for Constipation Organic fresh made juices have cleansing and laxative action, which will help you eliminate constipation.  Taken regularly they will help you have daily bowel movements. Are You Suffering From Chronic Constipation? Embarrassing as it may be, we have all suffered from constipation at one time in our life or another.  According to the National Health Interview Survey as many as 3 million Americans suffer from frequent if not chronic constipation.  While constipation is not recognized as a degenerative disease or serious disorder, people who are constipated often feel bloated, uncomfortable and even sluggish.  Constipation by itself is miserable enough, but sufferers often experience painful bowel movements that can become compounded by hemorrhoids that form due to straining. Treating Arthritis - Naturally There are actually three common types of arthritis. These are Osteoarthritis which is the most common, affecting around 16 million Americans with an average age of 45. It usually will attack weight bearing joints like knees, hips, and ankles but has been found in the fingers, neck and spine. Each of our joints is cushioned by cartilage, a very dense, sponge-like substance. Osteoarthritis attacks that cartilage and gradually wears it down. Using Pain To Institute Change In Your Life! Why do you do something that harms you? Why do you do something that has an overall negative effect in your life? Why do you do something that will make you unhappy later? More Vegetable Constipation Remedies Here are more constipation remedies using vegetables.  Use vegetables every day for good health.  When you have constipation then you want to eat more vegetables and fruits than normal.  After you clear your constipation, them back off from eating excess vegetables and just eat what you need to prevent constipation. A Natural Body Detox Can Dramatically Improve Your Health Detoxification therapy is a completely natural and necessary process to get you healthy and feeling your best!  If you've never done an official detox program, you are long overdue for a cleansing experience that will renew your energy, reduce food cravings, improve your metabolism, give you radiant skin, better your sleep, and strengthen your immune system. An Udderly Ricidulous Home Remedy Home Remedies - Facts or Quacks? Bois De Santal: The Source of Tranquility The near extinct bois de santal has a sensual and exotic scent that gives an elevating experience for those who use it. The oil extraction process of the sandalwood is lengthy; the tree has to be about 30 years old before the process can take place. ADHD The Easier Solution ADHD is a very rapidly growing part of the health care industry. The symptoms are varied, including: irritability, hyperactivity and behavioral problems. Many kids are so affected that they require some pretty hefty drugs to control them. Far Infrared Sauna Technology Comes of Age What exactly is infrared, or radiant heat? No need to worry - it has nothing to do with either ultraviolet radiation (which gives you a sunburn and damages your skin) or atomic radiation (the kind from a nuclear bomb). Flu Vaccine Hysteria Last week the media circus surrounding the flu vaccine reached a crescendo. How Dirty Dishes And Stale Bread Saved The Wo