Connection: close

All natural flu and cold soothers - WSVN-TV - Email Print Text Size All natural flu and cold soothers © Hemera/Thinkstock By Scott Meeks easy GREEN tv.com If you're not suffering from a sore throat right now, I bet you know someone who is.  Probably a few people at work, your kids – just about everyone seems to be carrying around cough drops and tissues these days. Well instead of turning to your medicine chest, try a few HOMEMADE remedies first.  They won't make you loopy like that over-the-counter stuff.  And they're easier on your body and the environment. Remember, these are all concoctions that are meant to SOOTHE your symptoms.  If you have a severe cold or flu, you should always head to the doctor! NON-LOOPY LEMON COUGH SYRUP Ingredients 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 tablespoons honey Mix together the lemon juice and honey.  Zap it in the microwave for 10 seconds to loosen it up a little. The honey coats your throat to ease the cough while the lemon gives you a little bump of vitamin C. COLD & FLU BREW (for that pesky sore throat) Ingredients 2 cups water 2 thick slices of lemon 2 slices of ginger root 2 chamomile tea bags 1 squirt of honey Simmer water, lemon and ginger root for about 10 minutes. Strain out the lemon and ginger and add 2 chamomile tea bags. Let the bags steep in the water for 5-10 minutes. Add a little honey and drink up! Ginger has anti-viral compounds.  Chamomile is an immune booster and will help you sleep. SPICY GARLIC GULP Ingredients ¼ lemon cut into chunks 2 slices of ginger 1 garlic clove peeled 1 squirt of honey Pinch of red pepper flakes 8 ounces boiling water Add all ingredients to a coffee mug and let it steep for 5 minutes.  Drink up and your sinuses will be clear in no time! *DISCLAIMER* : The information contained in or provided through this site section is intended for general consumer understanding and education only and is not intended to be and is not a substitute for professional advice.  Use of this site section and any information contained on or provided through this site section is at your own risk and any information contained on or provided through this site section is provided on an "as is" basis without any representations or warranties. All content © Copyright 2000-2007, WorldNow and WSVN. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this