
Northern Arizona Healthcare - Tooth Decay Northern Arizona Healthcare | Flagstaff Medical Center | Verde Valley Medical Center | Heart & Vascular Center Home | Contact Us | Find a Physician | How to Give Mission Statement Board of Directors Contact Us How to Give Maps and Directions Vendor Access Community Benefits About NAH Camp Verde Health Center Flagstaff Medical Center Flagstaff Medical Center Services Healthcare Partnerships Locate a Facility Verde Valley Medical Center Verde Valley Medical Center Services VVMC - Sedona Campus Facility Information Cancer Centers of Northern Arizona Healthcare Education Fit Kids of Arizona Flagstaff Medical Center Services Guardian Air Heart and Vascular Center of Northern Arizona Northern Arizona Homecare Northern Arizona Hospice Verde Valley Medical Center Services VVMC Sedona Campus Services Our Services Billing Inquiries E-mail a patient Healthcare Directives Patient Pre-Registration Patient Privacy Requesting your Medical Records Patients & Visitors Introduction Improving Quality HCAHPS Scores Patient Satisfaction Quality Indicators More Information Quality Flagstaff Medical Center News FMC Community Events FMC For the Media Verde Valley Medical Center News VVMC Community Events VVMC For the Media VVMC Support Groups Community Magazines Health Education Articles Stay Connected With Us News & Events Get Involved at FMC Get Involved at VVMC FMC Foundation VVMC Foundation Northern Arizona Hospice Get Involved Careers FMC Find a Physician Healthcare Informatics VVMC Find a Physician For Physicians Health Resources Tooth Decay Tooth Decay (Cavities; Dental Caries; Dental Decay) by Rick Alan En Español (Spanish Version) Definition | Causes | Risk Factors | Symptoms | Diagnosis | Treatment | Prevention Definition Tooth decay is the destruction of tooth material, which includes: Enamel—the hard outer surface of the tooth Dentin—the second softer layer beneath the enamel Pulp—the inside of the tooth containing the nerve and blood supply Root—the area of the tooth anchoring it in the bone Tooth Decay © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes Tooth decay, also known as caries, is caused by bacteria interacting with food particles left on the surface of the tooth. Bacteria feed on the sugars in the food and produce acids. These acids and bacteria combine to form a sticky substance called plaque. Plaque clings to your teeth and gives the acids a chance to eat away at the protective enamel of the tooth, eventually causing tooth decay.    The process is reversible in the early stages through intake of calcium, phosphate, and fluoride. Risk Factors All of us carry bacteria in our mouth which make us susceptible to tooth decay. A risk factor is something that increases your chance of getting a disease or condition. Risk factors include: Poor dental hygiene High numbers of  bacteria Insufficient fluoride Frequent use of medications containing sugar or causing dry mouth Diet high in sugars Malnutrition, including vitamin and mineral deficiencies Medical conditions, such as Sjogren's syndrome , that decrease the flow of saliva in the mouth Children whose caregivers or siblings have severe caries have a greater chance for dental caries Symptoms Symptoms include: Tooth sensitivity to hot or cold Tooth discomfort after eating Darkening of the tooth surface Bad breath or a foul taste in the mouth Throbbing, lingering pain in tooth Diagnosis Tooth decay or caries is diagnosed by monitoring over a period of time. This involves clinical examination as well as  x-rays. A dentist checks for tooth decay by: Asking about pain in the teeth Visually inspecting the surface of the teeth Probing teeth with dental instruments to check for: Sensitivity Pain Softness Surface defects Taking x-rays of teeth Treatment Sometimes tooth decay that is stopped before it reaches the dentin (second layer of the tooth) will repair itself. Treatment for more severe decay includes: Fillings When decay reaches the dentin, your dentist will treat it by: Numbing the tooth and surrounding tissue area Removing the decay with instruments Filling the hole with a dental filling; the filling can be silver or tooth colored Root Canal Tooth decay that reaches the pulp and/or root of the tooth is treated with a root canal : The tooth is numbed and a hole is drilled through the top of the tooth. Pus and dead tissue are removed from the tooth. The inside of the tooth and the root (nerve) canals are cleaned and filled with a permanent filling. The root (nerve) canal is sealed. A crown is placed on the tooth to protect it. Tooth Extraction (Removal) Removal of the tooth is required if: Tooth decay and/or tooth infection is too extensive for filling or root canal. A break or crack in the tooth that has allowed for decay is too severe to be repaired. An extensive infection exists between the tooth and gum. If the tooth is removed, it will be replaced with: A partial bridge A denture A tooth implant If you are diagnosed with tooth decay, follow your dentist's
        instructions
        . Prevention Measures that help prevent and stop tooth decay include: Proper dental hygiene, including: Brushing teeth
              with fluoride toothpaste after meals or at least twice per day Daily flossing
              between teeth and gums—Bacteria living between the teeth can only be removed with floss or interdental cleaners. Getting regular dental check-ups and teeth cleaning Limiting the amount of sugar and carbohydrates  you eat and drink, including: Honey Sodas Candy Cakes Cookies Other sweets Rinsing your mouth with water after eating sugars Replacing your toothbrush every 3 to 4 months Avoiding sugar-containing drinks (including fruit juices), especially in nursing bottles, and careful brushing can help prevent childhood tooth decay Chewing gum with xylitol or sorbitol—This may reduce your risk of cavities. Talk to your dentist about the use of a sealant , a protective plastic covering which is applied to the chewing surfaces of teeth. This is the location where initial tooth decay starts. Sealants usually last anywhere from 5-15 years. Prevention is particularly important for children, especially after the permanent teeth come in. Supplemental fluoride in early childhood (with dose adjustment for the amount of natural or added fluoride in local water supplies) can prevent early caries. Fluoride can also be applied to permanent teeth as a long acting “varnish,” though re-varnishing is usually necessary at least twice yearly. RESOURCES: Academy of General Dentistry http://www.agd.org/ American Dental Association http://www.ada.org/ CANADIAN RESOURCES: Canadian Dental Association http://www.cda-adc.ca/ The Canadian Dental Hygienists Association http://www.cdha.ca/ References: American Dental Association website. Available at:
          http://www.ada.org. Accessed July 27, 2011. Berkow R. The Merck Manual of Medical Information . New York, NY: Pocket; 2000. Murdoch-Kinch CA, Mclean ME. Minimally invasive dentistry. J Am Dent Assoc . 2003;134(4):412-414. National Institutes of Health website. Available at: http://report.nih.gov/nihfactsheets/ViewFactSheet.aspx?csid=129&key=T.  Updated February 2011. Accessed July 27, 2011. Seal out tooth decay. National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research website.  Available at
          http://www.nidcr.nih.gov/OralHealth/Topics/ToothDecay/SealOutToothDecay.htm. Updated March 2011. Accessed July 27, 2011. Selwitz RH, Ismail AL, Pitts NB. Dental caries. Lancet . 2007:369(9555):51-59. Statement on early childhood caries.  American Dental Association website.  Available at:
          http://www.ada.org/2057.aspx. Accessed July 27, 2011. Twetman S. Consistent evidence to support the use of xylitol- and sorbitol-containing chewing gum to prevent dental caries. Evid Based Dent . 2009;10(1):10-1. Last reviewed September 2011 by Laura Morris-Olson, DMD Please be aware that this information is provided to supplement the care provided by your physician. It is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. CALL YOUR HEALTHCARE PROVIDER IMMEDIATELY IF YOU THINK YOU MAY HAVE A MEDICAL EMERGENCY. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Copyright © EBSCO Publishing. All rights reserved. Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Support Site Map | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Accessibility Flagstaff Medical Center - 928-779-3366 Verde Valley Medical Center - 928-634-2251 VVMC - Sedona Campus - 928-204-3000 Copyright © 2012 Northern Arizona Healthc