Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Jansankhya Sthirata Kosh English | Hindi Home - Faq's on Child Health Overview What
                          will JSK do? How
                          is JSK Different? Funds of JSK Membership & Donations State Level Health Data District 
                        Level Health Data Events World 
                            Population India’s Population Why Population Matters Population Concepts Simplified Ongoing
                          Govt. Programmes Related
                          Links on Population FAQ's 
                        on Sexual and Reproductive    Health FAQ's on 
                        Child's Health -Introduction - Care of 
                        the Normal Newborn   Infant - Common 
                        Neonatal Problem s - Common 
                        Feeding Problem s -Care of a Young Child -Common 
                        Childhood Problems Straight Answers Common Childhood Illness Q. How can accidents to children be 
                                  avoided? Accidents are very 
                                  likely to occur in young children as they 
                                  attain mobility, learn to reach out for 
                                  objects and climb,  due to a natural desire to 
                                  learn and explore and an inability to know 
                                  from experience the consequences of what they 
                                  are doing. The common 
                                  household accidents involving young children 
                                  include falls, cuts, burns/scalds, electric 
                                  shocks, near drowning and poisoning due to 
                                  ingestion of chemicals/drugs. It is vital to 
                                  safe-guard your child against these accidents. 
                                  Some of the important precautions includes: Keep the doors leading outside the home and 
                                    the stairway firmly latched. Ensure that the open areas like the balcony 
                                    and the lawn have a railing through which 
                                    child cannot get out, at  the same time 
                                    there is no danger of his hand/ limbs 
                                    getting stuck. The windows should be safe so that a child 
                                    cannot jump out of them. The infant’s cot should have bars all 
                                    around, and when the child is old enough to 
                                    climb over them, he should be using a bed. Keep all sharp instruments like knives, 
                                    scissors, needles etc out of children’s 
                                    reach Match-boxes, gas stoves, heaters, electric 
                                    iron etc should be kept out of children’s 
                                    reach to avoid fire accidents. All unused electricity/power points should 
                                    be covered. Children have a strong tendency 
                                    to poke in a finger in the sockets! To avoid accidental poisonings, keep bottles 
                                    of all medicines, insecticides, domestic 
                                    toilet cleaning solutions, kerosene oil, 
                                    mosquito repellants etc firmly closed and 
                                    out of children’s reach. Children’s toys or clothes should not have 
                                    loose small parts that can come off easily. 
                                    The children tend to put these in their 
                                    mouth and swallow. Likewise, keep small 
                                    objects like coins, beads etc out of their 
                                    reach. Children are known to suffocate even 
                                    while playing with polythene bags! Never leave a child alone in the bathroom or 
                                    leave a bucket of water lying on the floor 
                                    when the baby is around. A young child never be left 
                                    unattended when outside the home. Due to 
                                    their natural curiosity and inexperience 
                                    they are at a high risk of accidents in 
                                    water-pools, staircases, falling from 
                                    terraces, shocks from electric appliances 
                                    etc. Q. What should be the home management of a 
                                  child with diarrhoea? A child has 
                                  diarrhea when there is a change from normal 
                                  bowel habits to more frequent and looser or 
                                  watery stools. The stools are often foul 
                                  smelling. During the diarrhoeal episodes the 
                                  baby becomes sick, irritable and/or 
                                  lethargic. Most diarrhoeas are self limiting 
                                  and last for 2-3 days. The key point in 
                                  home management of a child with diarrhoea is 
                                  replacing the fluid losses with oral liquids. 
                                  This should be started as soon as the child 
                                  develops diarrhea. He should be given 
                                  increased amount of fluids normally given at 
                                  home like lemon water, coconut water, soup, 
                                  daal water, butter milk etc. Breast-fed 
                                  infants should be offered breast milk more 
                                  frequently. He can also be given Oral 
                                  Rehydration Solution. Oral Rehydration 
                                  Solution or ORS is a life saving medicine to 
                                  cure and prevent dehydration. It is readily 
                                  available at all health facilities. One packet 
                                  of WHO ORS is dissolved in 1 liter of clean 
                                  potable water. ORS can be given as small 
                                  frequent sips. A child who is losing fluids 
                                  due to diarrhoea will accept ORS readily. Most children 
                                  with diarrhoea do not require any other 
                                  medication. Consult a doctor if a child 
                                  develops any of the danger signs listed below. Q. What are the danger signs of diarrhea? The major concern in 
                                  diarrhoea is rapid fluid loss resulting in 
                                  dehydration. To prevent this serious side 
                                  effect it is important to replace lost water 
                                  and electrolytes at the earliest. Any 
                                  significant dehydration constitutes an 
                                  emergency, so be aware of the following signs: Excessive 
                                    thirst/ irritability Dry lips, tongue 
                                    and skin Decreased amount 
                                    of urine Very frequent 
                                    passage of watery stools Lethargy or poor 
                                    oral acceptance of fluids A child with any of 
                                  the above signs should be shown to a doctor 
                                  without delay. Consult the doctor 
                                  also if the child has blood in his stools. 
                                  This is dysentery and child requires to be 
                                  given medicines for this. Q. How can 
                                  diarrhoea be prevented? Diarrhoea is an 
                                  important cause of sickness in children. It 
                                  can be prevented by simple measures like: Drinking clean 
                                    drinking water Exclusive breast 
                                    feedingfor first 6 months Avoiding using 
                                    bottle for feeding the infant Frequently 
                                    washing your own and the child’s hands, 
                                    specially on cleaning the child after he has 
                                    passed stools Keeping food 
                                    articles covered. Giving only 
                                    freshly prepared food to the child. Any food 
                                    that is left over from a previous meal 
                                    should not be given to the child again at 
                                    the next meal Avoiding 
                                    consuming food prepared and served in 
                                    unhygienic conditions Q. Is it a right practice to stop breast 
                                  feed if a baby has diarrhea? No, breast feed 
                                  should not be stopped during the diarrhoeal 
                                  episode. Breast milk prevents dehydration and 
                                  maintains nutrition when the child suffers 
                                  from diarrhoea. In fact, during diarrhoea the 
                                  baby should be fed more often than usual. The older infants 
                                  and children who eat solid foods, should also 
                                  continue to be fed as usual. Banana, curd, 
                                  khichri etc. are good foodsto be given during 
                                  the diarrhoeal episodes. Q. Which 
                                  children with cough and cold should be shown 
                                  to a doctor? Cough and Cold are among 
                                  the most common problems of childhood. Often, 
                                  these are accompanied by fever. Most common 
                                  cause of cough and cold in children is viral 
                                  infection. These are mild, self-limiting 
                                  illnesses that improve over a few days. The 
                                  child remains alert, active and continues to 
                                  accept food, though sometimes the appetite may 
                                  be reduced. These mild episodes respond well 
                                  to paracetamol (if there is fever), and home 
                                  remedies like ginger with honey. If the child remains sick 
                                  beyond 2-3 days, “looks sick” and is not 
                                  feeding well, a he should be shown to a 
                                  doctor. If a child younger than 2 months of 
                                  age has cough, he should be shown to a doctor 
                                  without delay since these children can become 
                                  sicker rapidly. Sometimes, the child develops 
                                  more severe form of illness that is called 
                                  pneumonia. In pneumonia a child breathes 
                                  faster than normal and parents may notice that 
                                  the child is having difficulty in breathing. 
                                  Some times an audible sound may be heard when 
                                  the child breathes. A child with severe 
                                  pneumonia may also become lethargic and 
                                  develop difficulty in feeding. A child with 
                                  any of the above signs must be promptly shown 
                                  to a doctor. Q. What are the 
                                  signs of serious illness in an infant/young 
                                  child? A very sick child may have one 
                                  or more of the following features: Not able to feed Abnormally sleepy or 
                                    difficult to awake (lethargic) Fast breathing Convulsions Vomiting every thing taken A child with any of these 
                                  symptoms should be shown to a doctor without 
                                  delay. Webhits: Copyright 
     