<http://getridofflu.learn365.org/?p=339>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Feeling Snuffly?: Some Facts About Colds and Flu | Get rid of Cold, Flu, and Sinus Home Cold-Flu-Sinus "> Cold-Flu-Sinus Privacy & Terms of Use "> Privacy & Terms of Use Get rid of Cold, Flu, and Sinus Follow Me Find out how to stop colds, flu, and sinus infections before they get started.. ← Alternative Therapy for Flue and Common Colds How to Prevent Colds and Flu Naturally → Feeling Snuffly?: Some Facts About Colds and Flu Posted on February 22, 2012 by admin Comments Off The cold and flu season lasts from September to March every year, and unless you live a very secluded life, there is a good chance that you may catch a cold or flu at some point this year. So here are some need-to-know facts about colds and flu; • The common cold is one of 200 ?cold? viruses; there is no known cure or vaccine. • Flu is caused by one of three influenza viruses each year worldwide; vaccines are prepared yearly to tackle the relevant strains. Most people will feel terrible, but recover well. However vulnerable people such as the very young or old, or people with chronic health conditions, are at a greater risk from flu. For these people and for health-workers vaccination is suggested. • Colds and flu are viral and cannot be cured with antibiotics which only tackle bacterial infections. • 1-5% of colds will cause a secondary infection such as sinusitis which may require treatment through antibiotics. • Colds and flu usually last 7-10 days, regardless of any treatments. • The cold affects the head and neck area, mostly causing nasal discomfort, sometimes with throat irritation/coughing. Young children may also experience a fever with a cold, but adults and older children will experience none or minimal fever. • Flu usually starts with an abrupt fever, aches throughout the body, extreme fatigue, and sometimes nausea. After a couple of days these symptoms tend to give way to sore red throat, hacking cough, cold-like symptoms and sometimes a further bout of fever. Symptoms usually go within a further 4-7 days sometimes leaving a lingering cough and tiredness. • Children will catch 3-10 colds a year, and adults half as many. • ?Catching a chill? is an outdated concept; it is now known that becoming cold, chilled or overheated will not make an individual more susceptible to the cold virus. • Stress may increase your chances of developing a cold. • Many of the symptoms associated with colds are a result of the body?s inflammatory response to the virus. 25% of people who contract the cold virus will display no symptoms. • New research has shown that taking asprin to relieve symptoms of a cold may make you more contagious. • It is suggested that children and teenagers should not be given preparations containing asprin to soothe symptoms of colds, flu or chickenpox due to a link with a rare but dangerous condition called Reye?s syndrome. • The best way to avoid a cold, or avoid spreading a cold is to wash your hands regularly with soap and water. The cold virus is mostly passed on through skin contact (from people wiping noses etc), and contact with infected surfaces such as telephones, banisters and door handles. • The cold virus remains active on skin and surfaces for 3 hours, and can also spread through sneezing and coughing. • The flu virus is airborne; spread through coughing and sneezing, quite contagious and often results in clusters of infected people. • You cannot cure a cold or flu, or shorten its natural lifespan, but some over-the-counter treatments may relieve your discomfort. Take care when buying these products as many contain significant amounts of artificial colours, sweeteners such as aspartame, and junk-gunk (also in children?s preparations). • A teaspoon of runny honey will soothe a sore throat or cough without all of the junk usually found is cold and cough preparations. • Steep a few slices of fresh ginger and lemon in hot water and add honey to taste; instantly reviving, and again without the junk. • Steep some fresh sage, thyme and a chamomile tea bag in hot water for sore throats, coughs and general sniffles. • Chicken soup (organic or free-range please) is traditionally thought to help recovery, and this is now backed by some scientific research; veggies will have to try onion and garlic soup (thought to cheer you up as well). • Stay well-hydrated and rest up. • If you are feeling unwell, you need to forget about your exercise routine, and rest until you are well. Working out will add strain to your immune system, increase tiredness, and spread the infection. Until next time, stay healthy! Vikki. Vikki Scovell  BA(hons) PG DIP is a fully qualified Personal Trainer and Fitness Coach. She is a qualified Nutrition Adviser, GP Referred Trainer and runs successful Community and Corporate Exercise classes and events.  Vikki is a consultant in Healthy Eating and Exercise initiatives to schools in the independent sector and publishes School and General Healthy Living  newsletters. Vikki believes passionately that everyone can make small changes to their lifestyle to ensure that they live happier, longer and healthier lives.  She lives in Bristol in the U.K. with her partner Jeremy and two young children Apple and Honey.  For enquiries for nutritional advice, personal training, corporate wellness and general enquiries visit http://www.getfitter.net Amazon.com Widgets Cold, Flu, and Sinus about , Colds , Facts , Feeling , Snuffly ← Alternative Therapy for Flue and Common Colds How to Prevent Colds and Flu Naturally → Comments are closed. Search for: Resources Recent Posts Sinus Infection Symptoms – Do I Have a Sinus Infection? – Nurse’s Guide How to Prevent Colds and Flu Naturally Feeling Snuffly?: Some Facts About Colds and Flu Alternative Therapy for Flue and Common Colds Cold and Flu Prevention Part I – With Foods Topics about Avian Avoid Causes Chronic Colds Common Congestion Effective Evaluate Fever Headache Health Herbal Herbs Immune Infection Infections Influenza Medications Migraine Nasal Natural Naturally poultry Prevent Prevention Problems Relief Remedies Remedy Sinus Sinusitis Sores Spray Spread stomach Swine Symptoms Treat Treating Treatment Treatments Vaccine Virus Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 Get rid of Cold, Flu, and Sinus 