
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 22:43:38 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.37 (Unix) PHP/5.1.6 mod_ssl/2.8.28 OpenSSL/0.9.8a
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 22:43:38 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Can you lose weight with cinnamon? |  Healthy and Hot Skip navigation . Home | Fitness | Exercises | Nutrition | Q & A | Videos | Workout Blogs | Links | Contact Us Search Latest Image Recent blog posts Boosting it up just a little more Back again! Took A Little Brake A Little More!! Lose fat and gain muscle? Now into week three... mmmmm Nap Yo YO Good times Starting Weight Training more Exercise Straps Home Can you lose weight with cinnamon? Submitted by HealthyAndHot on Mon, 2007-02-05 13:59. published to Nutrition Cinnamon has been used for centuries to treat a variety of ailments. Recent studies have found that Cassia cinnamon, also known as Chinese cinnamon ( Cinnamomum aromaticum)  is beneficial as an anti- inflammatory and antioxidant and has been shown to lower cholesterol, triglycerides, and glucose, and improve insulin function. Studies conducted by B Qin and collegues at Nagoya University in Japan studied the effects of a cinnamon extract on the insulin action in rats and analyzed possible changes in insulin signaling occurring in skeletal muscle. Their results suggested that a cinnamon extract improves insulin action by increasing glucose uptake in vivo.  A component of this action is through enhancing the insulin-signaling pathway in skeletal muscle (Qin et al., 2006). Dr. Heping Cao and collegues of the Beltsville Human Nutrition Research Center, investigated the biochemical properties that improve the function of insulin. Their results showed that cinnamon increases the amount of three proteins involved in the body's insulin signaling, glucose transport, and inflammatory response. These effects are similar to those found in insulin. Dr. Cao argues that the study provides new biochemical evidence for the beneficial effects of cinnamon in potentiating insulin action and also suggests anti-inflammatory properties for the antioxidants in cinnamon. Dr. Richard A. Anderson of the Beltsville Human Nutrition Research Center, United States Department of Agriculture is completing human studies to determine how cinnamon may improve insulin functioning in women with polycystic ovary syndrome; individuals with type 2 diabetes; and in people who are very obese.  It is believed that improving insulin function will lead to a decrease in weight and an increase in lean body mass (Goodwin, Sarah, 2006). Bookmark/Search this post with: delicious | digg | reddit | furl | google | yahoo | technorati » login or register to post comments User login Username: * Password: * Create new account Request new password TRY OUR FREE ONLINE BODYFAT TEST!! Find out your body fat percentage and many other important stats
        like BMR, Maximum Heart Rate, Daily Protein intake, and more.. CLICK HERE TO BEGIN Healthy and Hot newsletter Stay informed on our latest news! E-mail: Subscribe Unsubscribe Friends of Healthy and Hot MyFitTribe.com - Health and Fitness Social Network JamCore Training Blog - Home of the JamCore Training System Clark Bartram - America's Most Trusted Fitness Professional Extreme Boot Camp - The Toughest Workout You'll Ever Love! Disclaimer: The information on this website is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. None of the products mentioned in this article or on this website are intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. The information on this website is not intended to provide personal medical, fitness, training or health advice, which should be obtained from a medical professional. This information is made available with the understanding that the author and publisher are not providing medical, psychological, or nutritional counseling services on this site. The information on this Web site does not cover all possible uses, actions, precautions, side effects, and interactions. Liability for individual actions or omissions based upon the contents of this site is expressly disclaimed. This information has not been evaluated or approved by Health Canada. Hos