<http://wp.me/p10bA5-cp>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 01:41:17 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: b724268313bb2ffab63feb3abe3ce5bf
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 00:41:17 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

How to Cure Bronchitis - Herbal Remedies For Bronchitis | GoHerbalRemedies.com Beauty Diet Health Disorders Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Men's Health Natural Cures Sexual Women's Health Home » Herbal Remedies » Herbal Remedy to Cure Bronchitis Herbal Remedy to Cure Bronchitis 15 December, 2008 Written by writer Tweet Bronchitis is mainly a viral infection in bronchial tube which leads toward lung and his viral infection I mainly observed to be recurred immediately after an attack of cold or by flu when the immunity level of flu affected person remains low. The common symptom of bronchitis is heavy cough and attack of cold in which lungs get affected and congested by mucus. Other than allopathic antibiotics, and cough syrups some herbal remedies can be tried to reduce the infection as well as to comfort the ailments. These herbal remedies are all available within our grip and hardly costs anything. However, if there is no effect on application of herbal remedies with 24hours, doctor’s consultation is mandatory because in worst case bronchitis may lead to pneumonia and severe lung infection. Almonds are good to built immunity as well as for the natural resistance to prevent viral infection. Almonds can be consumed in case of bronchitis infection in any form in moderate quantity. Honey treated with onion is a good remedy for bronchial infection . Take half cup of honey and take on behalf cut onion in fine slices. Put the sliced onions into honey and keep this mixture over night. In the morning remove the onion out of the honey and now you can consume the honey thrice or four times a day in 1 tea spoon amount to get relief from the bronchial problem. Onion is a good remedy for bronchitis, you can consume onion is any from, onion extract 1-2 tea spoon full with natural honey helps to take out the phlegm; in fact onion works as expectorant and keeps the bronchial tubes free from congestion. Fresh extracted lemon juice in lukewarm water with 1-2tabespoon full honey with a pinch of salt helps to reduce the intensity of cough and helps to breathe comfortable. Taking lemon tea also proves beneficial for prevention of bronchitis. In take sufficient amount of water helps to liquefy the cough and it becomes easier to cough out the phlegm inside the respiratory track. Taking steam vapor from water ease the problem of chocking. You can take water steam vapor on your nose in head covered condition; for better relief you can add 2-3 drops of rosemary/eucalyptus/ peppermint oil in it. Ginger is another effective expectorant in removing mucus from respiratory track. You can consume ginger root extract with honey or can consume ginger tea. If you enjoyed this post, please consider leaving a comment or subscribing to the RSS feed. Tweet Tags: herbal remedies for bronchitis, how to cure bronchitis, Subscribe to Magazine Follow @ayushveda Popular Natural Treatment for Foul Smell of Vagina - 873 views Gallbladder Diet - 799 views Natural Treatment for Swollen Glands - 764 views Natural Cure of Gastritis - 602 views Herbal Cure For Tuberculosis - 534 views Natural Cure For Dehydration - 511 views Natural Cure For Anal Fissures - 480 views Natural Skin Care Recipes for Glowing Flawless Skin - 465 views Home Remedy for High Blood Sugar - 393 views Natural Cure for Improving Sperm Count - 371 views Easy Treatment Tips for Foot Calluses - 366 views Diet for Typhoid Patient - 363 views Self Care Remedy for Thyroid Problem - 347 views Home Remedies For Pneumonia - 345 views Home Remedies For Delayed Period - 343 views Recent Posts 8 Home Remedies For An Appetite Suppressant 7 Home Remedies For A Burnt Tongue 8 Home Remedies to Increase Metabolism Natural Treatment For Celiac Disease Get Rid Of The Dandruff With The Herbal Cure Know The Herbal Cure For cholesterol Natural Treatments For Arrhythmia 6 Natural Remedies For Ulcerative Colitis 6 Home Remedies For Diverticular Disease Amazing Natural Treatments For Gerd Important Natural Treatments For Fleas Natural Cures For Thrush Important Top 10 Fruit Juices Catwalk Model Diet Facts About Gatorade Recent Posts 8 Home Remedies For An Appetite Suppressant 7 Home Remedies For A Burnt Tongue 8 Home Remedies to Increase Metabolism Natural Treatment For Celiac Disease Get Rid Of The Dandruff With The Herbal Cure Proud Theme of... Follow Us Subscribe Rss Feed Follow us on Twitter Join Facebook Copyright © 2012 GoHe