
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 03:44:54 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.alternativedr.com/altdr/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: bp-message=deleted; expires=Sat, 12-Feb-2011 03:44:54 GMT; path=/altdr/
Set-Cookie: bp-message-type=deleted; expires=Sat, 12-Feb-2011 03:44:54 GMT; path=/altdr/
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Ginkgo Biloba | Alternative Dr Alternative Medicine A-Z Acupuncture Aromatherapy Ayurvedic Medicine Chinese Medicine Chiropractic Featured Herbal Medicine Homeopathy Massage Therapy Mind Body Medicine Naturopathy Yoga Conditions A-Z Conditions A-C Conditions: A > Acne Alzheimer's Disease Anorexia Nervosa Asthma Conditions: B > Bone Infection Bronchitis Conditions: C > Cancer – Breast Cancer Cancer – Prostate Cancer Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Cystic Fibrosis Conditions D-F Conditions: D > Dementia Depression Diabetes Conditions: E > Eczema Endocarditis Conditions: F > Fibromyalgia Food Allergies Conditions G-I Conditions: G > Gastritis Glaucoma Conditions: H > Heart Attack High Cholesterol HIV and AIDS Conditions: I > Insomnia Irritable Bowel Syndrome Conditions J-L Conditions: K > Kidney Stones Conditions: L > Leukemia Lupus Conditions M-O Conditions: M > Menopause Multiple Sclerosis Conditions: N > Nail Disorders Conditions: O > Obesity Osteoporosis Conditions P-R Conditions: P > Parkinson's Disease Conditions: R > Rheumatoid Arthritis Conditions S-U Conditions: S > Stress Disorder Conditions: T > Tendinitis Conditions: U > Ulcerative Colitis Conditions V-Z Conditions: V > Varicose Veins Conditions: W > Whooping Cough Conditions: Y > Yeast Infection Dr. May's Blog Wellness Men's Health Nutrition Peak Performance Pet Wellness Care Physical Fitness Sexual Health Vitamins – Supplements Wellness News Women's Health Wellness Nutrition Vitamins – Supplements Peak Performance Physical Fitness Men's Health Sexual Health Women's Health Wellness News Pet Wellness Care Alternative Medicine A-Z Acupuncture Massage Therapy Homeopathy Featured Chinese Medicine Herbal Medicine Yoga Aromatherapy Ayurvedic Medicine Naturopathy Mind Body Medicine Chiropractic Conditions A-Z Conditions A-C Conditions: A > Acne Alzheimer's Disease Asthma Anorexia Nervosa Conditions: B > Bone Infection Bronchitis Conditions: C > Cancer – Prostate Cancer Cancer – Breast Cancer Cystic Fibrosis Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Conditions D-F Conditions: D > Depression Diabetes Dementia Conditions: E > Eczema Endocarditis Conditions: F > Fibromyalgia Food Allergies Conditions G-I Conditions: G > Gastritis Glaucoma Conditions: H > High Cholesterol Heart Attack HIV and AIDS Conditions: I > Insomnia Irritable Bowel Syndrome Conditions J-L Conditions: K > Kidney Stones Conditions: L > Leukemia Lupus Conditions M-O Conditions: M > Multiple Sclerosis Menopause Conditions: N > Nail Disorders Conditions: O > Osteoporosis Obesity Conditions P-R Conditions: P > Parkinson's Disease Conditions: R > Rheumatoid Arthritis Conditions S-U Conditions: S > Stress Disorder Conditions: T > Tendinitis Conditions: U > Ulcerative Colitis Conditions V-Z Conditions: V > Varicose Veins Conditions: W > Whooping Cough Conditions: Y > Yeast Infection Dr. May's Blog Home Activity Members Groups Forums About Join our Alternative Medicine Community! February 12, 2012, 3:44 am by admin Ginkgo Biloba November 30, 2010 in Herbal Medicine by admin Ginkgo Biloba More than 400 published studies have been done on Ginkgo Biloba extract (GBE), making it one of the best researched of all herbal medicines. In Germany and France it is the most frequently prescribed herbal medicine and is in the top five of all prescriptions written in those countries. Ginkgo Biloba is a powerful aid to circulatory problems, particularly a lack of blood to the brain, which causes memory loss, vertigo, tinnitus, disorientation, headaches, and depression, especially in the elderly. It has strong antioxidant properties as well, protecting both the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system from damage and the effects of aging. Ginkgo Biloba improves blood circulation by strengthening blood vessels and reducing the stickiness of blood platelets, which can help blood circulate more easily, even when atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) is present. This not only helps improve blood flow to the brain, but it also increases blood flow to the limbs and can help prevent or treat heart disease and stroke. Ginkgo Biloba is also used effectively to help prevent mental deterioration for those approaching old age. In a few small studies, Ginkgo Biloba seemed to slow and even stop the progress of Alzheimer’s disease, particularly in the early stages. Recent studies have also shown that Ginkgo Biloba may reduce impotence caused by impaired blood flow. It also may help reduce certain premenstrual symptoms, specifically fluid retention. Ginkgo Biloba Plant Description Ginkgo biloba is the oldest living tree species. It is amazingly adaptable, surviving even the Ice Age and the atomic bomb that destroyed Hiroshima. A single tree can live as long as 1,000 years and grow to a height of 120 feet. It has short branches with fan-shaped leaves and produces inedible fruit that has a strong odor. The fruit contains an edible inner seed. Although Chinese herbal medicine has used both the ginkgo leaf and seed for centuries, modern research has focused on the standardized Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE), which is produced from the leaves. This extract is highly concentrated and much more effective than any other product made from the leaves. What’s Ginkgo Biloba Made Of? Ginkgo biloba is made up of ginkgo flavone glycosides, several terpene molecules unique to ginkgo (ginkgolides and bilobalide), and organic acids. The special terpene molecules are thought to give Ginkgo biloba its ability to fight many of the effects of aging. This includes improving blood circulation, reducing inflammation, and protecting brain cells from damage caused by lack of oxygen. Available Forms of Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo biloba extract standardized to contain 24 percent ginkgo flavone glycosides (50:1 extract) and 6 percent terpene lactones. (There are several different brands of GBE available in the U.S.) Capsules and tincture are also available. How to Take Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo Biloba repairs much of the damage that aging inflicts, particularly on the circulatory and nervous systems. It can also strengthen blood vessels. As a result, Ginkgo Biloba is most often recommended for older people suffering from signs of dementia, such as disorientation, memory loss, headaches, depression, vertigo, and tinnitus. Your health care provider will determine that these conditions are related to lack of blood flow to the brain and not another condition before recommending Ginkgo Biloba. Patients suffering from leg cramps resulting from poor circulation have also seen good results with Ginkgo Biloba. Because GBE strengthens and protects the circulatory and nervous systems, it can be also taken to help prevent heart disease, stroke, and the onset of dementia. Initial results often take four to six weeks, but should continue to accumulate beyond that period. You may not see any dramatic changes for six months. -	Take 120 mg daily in two or three divided doses of 50:1 extract standardized to 24 percent flavone glycosides. If you have more serious dementia or Alzheimer’s disease, you may need to work up to 240 mg daily in two or three divided doses. -	Capsules of dried herb with 10 mg standardized extract (1 to 3 capsules three times a day) -	Tincture (1:5): 2 to 4 ml three times a day -	Fluid extract (1:1): 1 to 3 ml three times a day Precautions and Side Effects of Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo Biloba is very safe and side effects are rare. In a few cases, gastrointestinal upset, headaches, and dizziness were reported. Ginkgo Biloba does not appear to alter heart rate and blood pressure or to change cholesterol and triglyercide levels. Because it decreases platelet aggregation (stickiness), there is some concern that ginkgo may increase risk of intracranial (brain) hemorrhage. Use with caution in conjunction with other blood-thinning agents (for example, Coumadin). Do not handle or ingest the fruit of Ginkgo biloba. The German Commission E reports that a hypersensitivity to Ginkgo biloba preparations is the only known reason not to take GBE. If you are pregnant, you should exercise caution since there is a lack of data concerning showing Ginkgo Biloba’s effect during pregnancy. Do not give Ginkgo Biloba to infants or children. Possible Interactions with Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo has blood-thinning properties and, therefore, should not be used if you are taking anticoagulant (blood-thinning) medications, like aspirin or warfarin. Supporting Research on Ginkgo Biloba Bauer U. Six-month double-blind randomized clinical trial of Ginkgo biloba extract versus placebo in two parallel groups of patients suffering from peripheral arterial insufficiency. Arzneimittelforschung. 1984;34:716–720. Blumenthal M, ed. The Complete German Commission E Monographs: Therapeutic Guide to Herbal Medicines. Boston, Mass: Integrative Medicine Communications; 1998. Brinker F. Herb Contraindications and Drug Interactions. 2nd ed. Sandy, Ore: Eclectic Medical; 1998:76-77. Brown D. Herbal Prescriptions for Better Health. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1996. Carper J. Miracle Cures. New York, NY: HarperCollins, 1997. Castelli D, Colin L, Camel E, et al. Pretreatment of skin with a Ginkgo biloba extract/sodium carboxymethyl-b-1,3-glucan formulation appears to inhibit the elicitation of allergic contact dermatitis in man. Contact Dermatitis. 1998;38(3):123–126. Chung KF, McCusker M, Page CP, et al. Effect of a ginkgoloide mixture (BN52063) in antagonizing skin and platelet responses to platelet-activating factor in man. Lancet. 1987;1(1):248–250. Cupp MJ. Herbal remedies: adverse effects and drug interactions. Am Fam Physician. 1999;59(5):1239–1244. DeSmet PAGM, Keller K, Hänsel R, Chandler RF, eds. Adverse Effects of Herbal Drugs. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag; 1997. Kinghorn, A., Ed. Human Medicinal Agents from Plants. Washington, DC: American Chemical Society, 1993. Le Bars PL, Katz MM, Berman N, Itil TM, Freedman AM, Schatzberg AF. A placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized trial of an extract of Ginkgo biloba for dementia. JAMA. 1997;278:1327–1332. Mashour NH, Lin GI, Frishman WH. Herbal medicine for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Arch Intern Med. 1998;158(9):2225–2234. McGuffin M, Hobbs C, Upton R, et al, eds. Botanical Safety Handbook. Boca Raton, Fla: CRC Press; 1997. Miller LC. Herbal medicinals: selected clinical considerations focusing on known or potential drug-herb interactions. Arch Intern Med. 1998;158(9):2200–2211. Murray M. The Healing Power of Herbs: The Enlightened Person’s Guide to the Wonders of Medicinal Plants. 2nd ed. Rocklin, Calif: Prima Publishing; 1995. Newall C, et al. Herbal Medicines: A Guide for Health-care Professionals. London, England: Pharmaceutical Press; 1996. Peters H, Kieser M, Holscher U. Demonstration of the efficacy of Ginkgo biloba special extract Egb 761 on intermittent claudication a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. Vasa. 1998;27:105–110. Ramassamy C, Christen Y, Clostre F, et al. The Ginkgo biloba extract, EGB761, increases synaptosomal uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine in-vitro and ex-vivo studies. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1992;44:943–945. Ramassamy C, Clostre F, Christen Y, et al. Prevention by Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE761) of the dopaminergic neurotoxicity of MPTP. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1990; 42:785–789. Rosenblatt M, Mindel J. Spontaneous hyphema associated with ingestion of Ginkgo biloba extract. N Engl J Med. 1997;336:1108. Rowin J, Lewis SL. Spontaneous bilateral subdural hematomas associated with chronic ginkgo. Neurol. 1996;46:1775–1776. Schulz V, Hänsel R, Tyler VE. Rational Phytotherapy: A Physicians’ Guide to Herbal Medicine. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag; 1998. Sikora R, Sohn M, Deutz F-J, et al. Ginkgo biloba extract in the therapy of erectile dysfunction. J Urol. 1989;141:188A. Vorberg G. Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE): a long-term study of chronic cerebral insufficiency in geriatric patients. Clin Trials. 1985;22(2):149–157. al-Zuhair H, Abd el-Fattah A, el-Sayed MI. The effect of meclofenoxate with Ginkgo biloba extract or zinc on lipid peroxide, some free radical scavengers, and the cardiovascular system of aged rats. Pharmacol Res. 1998;38(1):65–72. Copyright © Integrative Medicine Communications Tags: Ginkgo Biloba , Herbal Medicine No Comments » To start connecting please log in first.															 You can also create an account . Username Password Remember Me Members Groups Forums Tags Acne Acupuncture Alzheimer's Aromatherapy Bone Infection Breast Cancer Bronchitis Cancer Cholesterol Cystic Fibrosis Depression Dermatology Diabetes Endocarditis Fibromyalgia Fitness Food Allergies Gastritis Herbal Medicine Homeopathy Insomnia Kidney Stones Leukemia Massage Therapy Men's Health Menopause Multiple Sclerosis Nail Disorders Nutrition Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Prostate Cancer Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Stress Sun Tanning Tendinitis Traditional Chinese Medicine Ulcerative Colitis Varicose Veins Vitamins - Supplements Water Whooping Cough Women's Health Yoga Recent Posts Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Couples Massages HIV and AIDS Dementia Symptoms WPMU DEV Copyright ©2012 Alternative Dr - Alternative Medicine Wellness Community Go back to top ↑ SEO Services Company Al