
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
MS-Author-Via: MS-FP/4.0
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 05:31:05 GMT
Connection: close

Health and Wellness News and Information - Goshen Central School 
District, Goshen, NY toplinks District Contact Information Daniel T. Connor Superintendent 227 Main Street Goshen, NY 10924 (845) 615-6720 District Links About Us About the district About the community Community news Academics College in the High school Evening High School Program GHS Course Descriptions Homework Guidelines 
					(PDF) Literacy Program Pupil Personnel Services Teacher Pages The Arts Common Core State Standards Athletics Overview/News SAS Physical Education GIS Physical Education CJH Physical Education GHS Physical Education Athletic Code (PDF) Students of the Month OCIAA Cancellation Page Weekly Schedule 
				(PDF) Staff/Coaches Directory Board of Education Overview Upcoming Meeting Agenda Board Meeting Schedule Board Minutes Goals & Objectives Budget Information Overview/News Tax Levy Cap Information Budget Development Calendar 
				(PDF) Absentee Ballots Board of 
					Education Petitions Glossary of Terms Voter Registration & Eligibility Budget Archives Departments Athletics Department Board of Education Buildings & Grounds Food Services Health & Wellness Instructional Technology/ Technical Services Pupil Personnel 
					Services Student Registration Transportation Food Services Overview School Menus Free & Reduced Lunch Application 
				- English (PDF) Free & Reduced Lunch Application 
				- Spanish (PDF) Pre-Paid Cash Accounts Frequently Asked Questions Birthday Treat Form 
				(PDF) Health & Wellness Overview Health News & Information Internet Safety & Cyber Bullying Awareness SAS School Nurse GIS School Nurse CJH School Nurse GHS School Nurse News Archives The 
			Arts Art 
				Program Music Program The Arts Calendar District Resource Links Alumni Class Reunion Postings Alumni News Register for Alumni Directory Search Alumni Directory Forms & Publications Downloadable Forms One Page Calendar 
					(PDF) District Calendar 
					(PDF) District Policy Manual Newsletters Employment Instructional Positions Non-Instructional Positions Online Application System (OLAS) Register a Student District Quick Links Closings & Delays Staff Resources What's for Lunch? Facebook Twitter School News Notifier e-mail alert system Health and 
		Wellness News and Information Health News S AS student treated for pertussis : 
		View a letter from the Department of Health January 4, 2011 - A student in 
		Scotchtown Avenue Elementary School has been treated for confirmed 
		pertussis (whooping cough). Antibiotics given early in the infection may 
		reduce symptoms and does shorten the period of communicability. READ 
		MORE Â» View the 
		flu season letter from the Department of Health August 4, 2011 - The 
		2011 flu season is on its way. View a letter containing relevant news 
		and recommendations about the flu season from the Orange County 
		Department of Health and the Orange County Medical Society. Letter in English (PDF) Letter in Spanish (PDF) Health Information Information 
		about influenza The first and most important step in protecting 
		against the flu is to get a flu vaccine each season, and The Centers for 
		Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, recommends that everyone 6 
		months of age and older be vaccinated. In addition, the district would like to remind 
		parents to teach your children about good hygiene in order to reduce 
		their risk of getting the flu: Teach children to wash hands often with hot water 
			and soap for at least 20 seconds (that's about as long as it takes 
			to sing the "Happy Birthday" song twice). Teach children the proper way to use hand 
			sanitizers. Gels, rubs and hand wipes all work well, as long as they 
			contain at least 60% alcohol. Teach children to keep their hands away from 
			their face and avoid touching their mouth, nose or eyes. Teach children to cover coughs and sneezes with 
			tissues, or to cough and sneeze into their sleeves - not their 
			hands. For more information about the 201 1-12 Flu Season, 
			visit The New York State Department of Health website . Information about H1N1 With continued media attention focused on the H1N1 
		(Swine Flu) virus, the district is providing a resource page for parents 
		and community members seeking facts and information about this strain of 
		the flu virus. View archived information and letters to parents. Information about 
		pertussis (whooping cough) What is pertussis? Pertussis, or whooping cough, is a highly contagious disease involving 
		the respiratory tract. It is caused by a bacterium that is found in the 
		mouth, nose and throat of an infected person. Who gets pertussis? Pertussis can occur at any age. Pertussis is increasing in 
		teenagers and adults. How is pertussis spread? Pertussis is primarily spread by direct contact with discharges 
		from the nose and throat of persons with whooping cough. What are symptoms of 
		pertussis? Pertussis starts like a common cold , 
		including sneezing, runny nose, low-grade fever and a mild cough. Within two weeks, the cough 
		becomes more severe . R apid coughs can be followed by a crowning or high-pitched 
		whoop. The cough is more frequent at night. When and for how long is a 
		person able to spread pertussis? A person can spread pertussis from the time of the first cough 
		to three weeks after the cough has started. What is the vaccine for 
		pertussis? The vaccine for pertussis is usually given in combination with 
		dipthereisa and tetanus. Immunization authorities recemmond DTaP (dipthereia, 
		tetanus, acellular pertussis) vaccine be given at 2, 4, 6 and 15-18 
		months of age and between 4 and 6 years of age. Tdap is now recommended 
		for 11-18 year olds as a one time booster dose. Can pertussis be treated? YES. 1. If you have a harsh, rapid cough, see your doctor or clinic. 2. Treatment with antibiotics for five days can prevent spreading the 
		infection to others. Wellness Policy The Goshen Central School District established its 
		Wellness Policy in June 2006 in order to achieve the goal of providing a 
		school environment that promotes and protects children's health, 
		well-being and the ability to learn by fostering healthy eating and 
		physical activity. Wellness Policy - June 2006 Wellness Policy Update: Healthy Snacks - 
			September 2007 Internet Safety The Internet can be a great 
		resource for your child. It can be used for research, communication with 
		teachers and other children, interactive games etc. By being able to 
		punch in a few letters on the keyboard, you child can literally access 
		the World Wide Web. That access can however pose hazards and this 
		section offers links and important resources on internet safety. Find out about the New York State Law on Internet Safety and what the Technology 
		Standards are for your child in school. Netiquette “What is Netiquette? Simply 
		stated, it's network etiquette -- that is, the etiquette of cyberspace. 
		And "etiquette" means "the forms required by good breeding or prescribed 
		by authority to be required in social or official life." In other words, 
		Netiquette is a set of rules for behaving properly online.” (Virginia 
		Shea, The Core Rules of Netiquette) Find out what the netiquette rules are . Encourage your child to take a web license on internet safety to check how well you know the rules 
		on internet safety! Cyber Security and Personal Safety These two links provide clear 
		explanations and tips on how to be on guards against Internet fraud, 
		secure your computer and protect your personal information – videos and 
		games to use with your child! Department of Homeland Security New York State Office of Cyber Security and Critical Infrastructure 
			Coordination Reminders about Personal Safety Passwords-use a mix of 
			letters, numbers and symbols. Try also to use upper and lower case 
			letters; Six or more characters are 
			better passwords; Usernames should not 
			include any personal information; Don’t click on banner ads 
			or pop-up ads. This could lead to spyware. Cyberbullying Here is a web site where you 
		can get familiar with the definition of Cyberbullying with great and professional resources. Cyberbullying 
		can happen a number of ways: E -mails Instant Messaging Web Pages and Social 
			Networking (e.g. My Space) Text messages Here is a fact sheet (PDF) on how to find out about the signs of Cyberbullying. 
		In the event you feel you child may be a victim of cyberbullying, do not 
		wait, go and talk to a school administrator, teacher etc. whom might be 
		able to help and address the problem with your help. More 
		Resources on Internet Safety Education.com Bring Learning To Life: A great series of 
			resources on cyberbullying Netiquette Rules: How to behave on the Internet: Code of Conduct Cyber Ethics: Code of Conduct on what to and not to do online NYS Guidance on Bullying and Cyberbullying NYS Department of Education Links on Internet Safety for Parents Bottom Links Home | Contact Us | Directions | Feedback | Goshen A to Z | Search Our Site This site is maintained by Christina Gore , communications specialist, according to the Web publishing guidelines used by the Goshen Central School District. All rights reserved. This Web site was produced by the Capital Region BOCES Communications Service. Â© 2005-11  The district is not responsible for the content of outside links. Clic