Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 14:22:02 GMT
X-Varnish: 1092806259
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
X-Cache: MISS

Article: Top Tips And Back Pain - by Kim Standerline Home Page Complete D irectory New 
    Articles Natural Health Newsletters About Us Advertising please visit our sponsor ** Free 
    Natural Health Newsletters, Click Here ** Article: Top 
    Tips And Back Pain - by 
    Kim Standerline Facts and Figures For Back Pain Back pain to some extent, 
    affects four out of five people in the western world. That’s a heck of a lot 
    of people at any given time suffering from some form of pain, (even if it’s 
    only minor)! Every day in the UK more than 50,000 people consult their GP 
    about their back problem. Within a weekly period that figure adds up to the 
    size of a smallish town. (Think about it). Back pain is now catching up with 
    the common cold as the most frequent complaint of the British public and 
    despite the increase of labour saving devices etc, the incidence of back 
    pain has doubled within the last 10 years. It costs the NHS nearly £500 
    million pounds a year to treat patients complaining of back pain, and 
    British industry loses nearly 6 billion pounds due to the absenteeism of 
    their workers. This totals more than a mind boggling 119 million days lost 
    annually. The age of sufferers is lowering. There are now a growing number 
    in the 16-24 age groups with around one in three young people periodically 
    unfit for work because they complain of a back problem. It is also suggested 
    there is little evidence that some traditional treatments such as 
    acupuncture or lumber supports are effective in the treatment of back 
    problems. Most back pain is not the result of serious injury, but sprains, 
    strains minor injuries and general wear and tear, (and the older you get, 
    the more likelihood it will be wear and tear). How many times have you been 
    told that the best cure for your bad back is to: - •Take to your bed for 
    several days •Lay on a hard surface i.e. put a door under your mattress •Buy 
    an orthopaedic mattress, health bed etc. Usually the wrong advice… 
    Scientific studies within the last few years suggest the best way to treat 
    your bad back is to take a pain killer and keep on moving, because if you do 
    stop moving, you will get stiff and the pain gets worse. Staying in bed 
    often compounds back pain problems In many cases, lying flat can worsen your 
    back condition because your muscles may start to atrophy causing further 
    stresses and strains when you attempt to get up the next day. So it’s 
    sensible if you suffer with chronic and acute lower back pain to try and 
    continue with your daily life as much as possible, though obviously you need 
    to be sensible and take it steady. You should be careful when exercising, 
    back stretches and flexing exercises can sometimes do more harm than good, 
    it’s important your back problem is assessed correctly before starting any 
    of these types of exercise. Many chronic back conditions are caused by 
    sprains of the muscles and ligaments supporting the spine. Inflammation of 
    the joints between your vertebrae or even a prolapsed disc can also be to 
    blame. You may then find pain often spreads into other parts of the body 
    such as your legs and groin causing or worsening problems such as sciatica. 
    Studies show spinal manipulation by osteopath’s and chiropractors etc can 
    often provide short term relief in these types of back pain so it may be 
    worth your while finding a really good practitioner. Low back pain advice 
    Randomised trials have shown that advice given to stay active lead to a 
    faster return to work, so continue your ordinary activities as much as 
    you’re able. Again it’s been proved the less time you have off sick, the 
    more chance you have of being able to resume your job, so even if you hate 
    the thought of it, try and go back to work. Be sensible and if your job 
    involves lots of lifting, bending etc, ask your boss if you can have lighter 
    duties. I would be surprised if they said no if it is a choice between 
    having you at work or off sick. Tips for reducing back pain •Maintain a good 
    posture at all times. Keep your back straight and your head up especially 
    when lifting, as incorrect lifting can harm your back. •Always bend your 
    knees when stooping to pick something up and don't bend at the waist. •A lot 
    of problems start with poor posture. When sitting, choose a firm backed 
    chair and sit with your buttocks to the back of it so your back will 
    naturally fall properly into the backrest. If sitting in a chair without a 
    backrest, try and sit up straight. •Avoid slumping and rounding your back. 
    This exaggerates the natural curvature of your spine, and will cause further 
    back pain. •Watch your diet, your excess weight adds to the stresses and 
    strains on your spine. •Take exercise to help keep your back supple, but you 
    must ensure it is the correct sort and you have taken proper advice first. 
    Walking and swimming are good, (but avoid breaststroke if you have back 
    problems). •Avoid soft sofas and chairs. If you choose a chair, which 
    supports the small of your back, there is less likelihood of you developing 
    back pain. •How old is your mattress? If you are sleeping on a saggy soft 
    mattress, it could be contributing to your back problems. A decent mattress 
    is one of the necessities of life. Also get into the habit of turning and 
    flipping your mattress every 6 months. •Sleep on a contoured pillow to avoid 
    neck strain. Don't use too many pillows. Your neck and spine should be kept 
    in-line whilst you sleep. A small pillow between your knees when you sleep 
    helps keep your hips in-line therefore assisting in avoiding lower back 
    stiffness. •Ensure your mattress is big enough for both you and your partner 
    to sleep on. If sharing a small mattress, you’re probably sleeping in 
    awkward positions because you are crowded out. (This won’t help your back). 
    Learn to look after your back, and hoepfully it will repay you many times 
    over Kim Standerline is 
    the Back Care Advisor at a large hospital Trust in the UK. She is also the 
    author of Let's Talk About Backpain" a self help book for back pain 
    sufferers, and the creator of www.backpain-free.com and www.nursing-hints.com Home Page | Complete D irectory | Articles | Natural Health Newsletters | About Us | Advertising © 1