Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Sacramento Dental Sealants Content on this page requires a newer version of Adobe Flash Player. Content on this page requires a newer version of Adobe Flash Player. Sacramento Dental Sealants You may have heard about sealants but are not too sure what they are and  their benefits. Children’s and teenager’s teeth benefit most from sealants, or adults who  have teeth without fillings or decay. Sealants are put over the back teeth, the  molars and premolars, in order to prevent decay caused by the foods children  eat. Even with regular flossing and brushing, teeth are still susceptible to  decay from bacteria and plaque. Small particles of food get trapped in small  crevices in and between the teeth and the enzymes they release can cause the  tooth enamel to wear away and the teeth to decay. Sealants prevent this from  happening, and can last for at least ten years. Sealants are fast-drying liquids that are painted onto the tops  of the back teeth, which are the ones that do the job of chewing food. The  applied sealant dries on the ridges and in the depressions in the top of the  teeth and seals them in an easy and painless procedure. They are best used when  the second teeth come through and are in place, but can also be used on first  teeth to preserve them for as long as possible, until they are pushed out  naturally by the new adult teeth. It is important to keep the first teeth for as long as possible  because they are space savers for the second teeth. If there is a long period  before the second teeth fill the hole left by the extraction of a baby tooth,  the second tooth may not have enough space to grow properly, and then your  child might require braces. These can also be fitted to ensure a perfect set of  adult teeth and there are braces which are virtually invisible and can be  custom made for different stages of the straightening process. However, sealing  the baby teeth can help prevent the need for braces. Sealants can be applied either by a dentist or a hygienist, who  first of all will clean the teeth thoroughly. Then the teeth are carefully  dried and an acid solution is put on the teeth that are due to be sealed in  order to roughen the surfaces to which the sealant will be applied. The teeth  are then rinsed and dried once more, before the sealant is painted on. There  may be a special light treatment so that the sealant will dry faster, but the  whole procedure is painless and simple. Your child’s teeth will have to be  checked regularly to ensure the sealant has not flaked off or chipped, but  should this occur, sealant can be applied again. This treatment is covered by  many medical insurance policies and will help your child keep their teeth for longer.  In the case of a teenager, the sealant will be of definite benefit, protecting  back teeth from the ravages of decay. Free consultation Call Today Adam and Eve had many advantages, but the principal one was that they escaped teething. Did you know? Grinding your teeth overnight is equivalent to a month’s normal wear on your teeth The-Dentist.com © 2010  | Privacy policy H