
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 08:28:16 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (FreeBSD) DAV/2 SVN/1.5.2 PHP/5.2.6 with Suhosin-Patch mod_python/3.3.1 Python/2.5.1 mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8i mod_fastcgi/2.4.6 mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.8.8
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Yoga Therapy - Ashram Experience yoga | bsy | byb | contact us Home | News | Archives | Glossary | Subscribe | Books | Links | Contacts Browse the Archives Choose a year... 1977 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 January 1981 Blessing 
        to Yoga Editorial The 
        Healing Power of Yoga Swami Satyananda Saraswati Yoga Research & Therapy Yoga 
        Therapy - Ashram Experience Dr. Swami Shankardevananda Saraswati, MB, BS (Syd) Slipped 
        Disc and Sciatica Dr. Swami Karmananda Saraswati MB, BS (Syd) Scientific 
        Yoga Therapy Response Swami Niranjan Saraswati Amaroli Swami Satyananda Saraswati No 
        Escape Swami Kriyamurti Saraswati Experience 
        in Yoga K. Arumugam, Coimbatore Kabir Swami Gaurishankara Saraswati print this page Yoga Therapy - Ashram Experience Dr. Swami Shankardevananda Saraswati, MB, BS (Syd) Yoga reflects the legacy of a wise, ancient civilization. Researchers 
        have only scratched the surface of this knowledge, trying to fathom its 
        breadth and depth through the instruments of science. Here at Bihar School of Yoga, we have had the privilege of working under 
        the guidance of Swami Satyananda Saraswati, a master architect of yoga. 
        His simple, practical methods have alleviated many modern day ailments 
        while increasing the individual's latent spiritual energy. Using this system, we have helped many people with complaints ranging 
        from tension and digestive disorders to problems of epilepsy, hypertension, 
        diabetes, asthma and even cancer, thereby supporting the work of others 
        in the field. *1 Anxiety, *2 depression, neurosis, and some forms of psychosis 
        can also be eliminated through yoga, according to our experience. Our approach is a combination of medicine and yoga expertise. This reduces 
        gross suffering and maintains stability in the lifestyle, until yogic 
        techniques can ease the body into a more functional state, where cure 
        can be achieved. In all cases, yoga serves to relax and de-stress the 
        patient so that medical techniques can work even more efficiently. Currently, 
        there are several investigations under way in clinical settings, medical 
        schools, and ashrams around the world, all under the inspiration and guidance 
        of Swami Satyananda. It appears that yoga is an exceptionally powerful 
        approach, which can be successfully applied even in chronic and incurable 
        cases. Undoubtedly, the majority of yoga research has been on meditation, its 
        effects on consciousness and various physiological responses. *3 The hatha 
        yoga practices of asanas, pranayamas and shatkarmas have been neglected 
        in the research milieu. *4 In both the therapeutic setting, and for the 
        average seeker, these practices are prerequisite for the higher experiences 
        which free us from the shackles of disease and suffering. The benefits of kunjal One cleansing technique is the stomach wash called kunjal kriya or vaman 
        dhauti. This involves drinking six glasses of warm salty water, followed 
        by vomiting, using either the pharyngeal gag reflex, initiated by rubbing 
        the back of the tongue, or by exercising internal control. Vomiting is 
        a natural process voluntarily utilized by animals when they are sick. 
        They eat grass and then regurgitate the contents of their stomachs. But 
        human beings associate the vomiting urge with nausea, pain and distress, 
        and tend to suppress it until the last possible moment. Kunjal, however, is a completely different, painless experience. After 
        three or four attempts, one becomes skilled in the technique and can use 
        it when necessary. It has vast repercussions on the nervous system. People 
        gain many benefits from it, but it is prohibited in cases of high blood 
        pressure, heart disease, acute peptic ulcer, fever and hernia. Kunjal 
        should be learned under guidance, in a therapeutic setting. The practice 
        of asanas and pranayamas together with a proper diet will enhance its 
        effects. In general, kunjal keeps the stomach healthy, clean and well toned; it 
        reduces overstretching and removes mucus and undigested food. It is helpful 
        in controlling indigestion, biliousness, gas formation, constipation and 
        hyperacidity. Removing stomach mucus benefits the lungs. In addition, 
        the broncho-dilation which then occurs can effectively halt an acute attack 
        of asthma, or reduce bronchitis, cough and other lung problems. The sinuses 
        are cleaned by reflex action, thereby relieving sinusitis. Tension, migraine 
        headache and middle ear infections are relieved. Many neurological conditions 
        such as epilepsy and Parkinson's disease have been ameliorated and the 
        progressive downward trend of muscular dystrophy halted. Kunjal's explosive effect on the nervous system is like a mild form of 
        electro-convulsive therapy, beneficial in many forms of depression and 
        anxiety. It is this discharging effect which we believe is partially responsible 
        for the benefits accrued by epileptics, for it releases the nervous build-up 
        which leads to the epileptic seizure. Through repetitive excitation of the pharyngeal gag reflex, this usually 
        unconscious process is brought into our conscious awareness. In this way, 
        we can develop a degree of control over the autonomous processes, somewhat 
        similar to the biofeedback methods. A psychodynamic interpretation of 
        this cleansing kriya might be that it helps us 'get things off our chest' 
        relieving us of the suppressions and choked up emotions responsible for 
        creating many forms of disease. Relaxation therapy We have not mentioned all the healing practices which have been utilized 
        in our yoga therapy at Bihar School of Yoga, and kunjal is only one of 
        the myriad of techniques. The relaxation side of yoga has received a lot 
        of coverage for its use in the control of hypertension. Yoga nidra, or 
        psychic sleep, provides physical, emotional and mental rejuvenation. It 
        culminates in an apparent state of deep sleep (the EEG indicates delta 
        brain waves) but in actual fact, one is totally aware of various internal 
        processes. Swami Rama, in a series of startling demonstrations, has shown 
        this. *6 At Bihar School of Yoga we use the more dynamic forms of yoga 
        nidra and nada yoga for angina and other heart conditions. We consider 
        these to be ideal techniques for the coronary intensive care ward, as 
        a method of inducing relaxation during convalescence and to reduce the 
        chance of complications in the critical few days of post infarction. In 
        several cases, we have noticed the disappearance of ST depression from 
        the EEG. The need for more research The latest research into meditation, biofeedback, and even brain chemistry, 
        with the discovery of such chemicals as encephalins (the brain's own morphine) 
        has revealed that we hold the key to healing within ourselves. We don't 
        have to rely solely on external forms of therapy and manipulation. Scientists 
        are now searching for methods to turn on the switches, to increase or 
        decrease the secretions at will, in order to balance the metabolism and 
        nervous system. Research indicates that yoga possesses the techniques 
        required to do this. We cannot emphasize enough the need for more study 
        and research into the uses of yogic techniques, not only in ashram settings, 
        but also in hospitals and other professional services. This will bring 
        us one step closer to a life which is free from disease. References *1. The following works of Dr. Ainslie Meares: 'Meditation: A psychological approach to cancer treatment', The Practitioner 
        222: 119-122, Jan. 1979. 'Regression of Osteogenic Sarcoma metastasis associated with intensive 
        meditation', Med. J. Aust., Oct. 21, 1978. 'Regression of cancer after intensive meditation', Med. J. Aust., 2 : 
        184, 1976. * 2. M. Girodo, 'Yoga Meditation and Flooding in the treatment 
        of anxiety neurosis', Behav. Th. & Exp. Psychiat., 5 :157-160, 1974. * 3. R.K. Wallace, et al. , 'A wakeful hypo metabolic physiological 
        state', Am. J. Physiol, 221 (3): 795-799, 1971; * 4. The few studies we know of are general and not specific 
        to any individual technique: M.L. Gharote, 'Effect of Yogic Training on physical fitness', Yoga Mimamsa, 
        15(4) : 31-35, 1973. M-V- Bhole and P.V. Karambelkar, 'Water suction in internal cavities during 
        uddiyana and nauli', Yoga Mimamsa, 13(4) : 26-32, 1971. K.S. Gopal, et al., 'Biochemical studies in foreign volunteers practising 
        hatha yoga', J. Res. Ind. Med., 9(3): 1-8, 1974. * 5. K.K. Datey, 'Shavasana: A yogic exercise in the management 
        of hypertension', Angiology, 20:325-333, 1969. C-H- Patel, 'Yoga and biofeedback in the management of hypertension', 
        Lancet,Nov. 10, 1973. * 6. E-E. Green, et al., Biofeedback for Mind-Body Self-Regulation: 
        Healing and Creativity, Topeka, Kansas: The Menninger Foundation, 1971. [ top ] Home | News | Archives | Glossary | Subscribe | Books | Links | Contacts All material © 
        Sivananda Math | All rights reserved | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer Valid XHTML |