
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 07 Apr 2012 07:10:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
X-Pingback: http://www.home-remedies-for-you.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Causes, Types of Incontinence in Women - at Night, Treatment - Women's Health - Natural Remedies Causes, Types of Incontinence in Women - at Night, Treatment Posted in Category : Women's Health |   July 19, 2011 Incontinence in Women Urination and defecation are the two ways in which the body gets rid of waste products that are surplus to the requirement of the body. These waste products are also used to eliminate certain toxins and unwanted substances from the body. Incontinence refers to the condition where the body is unable to control the release of these waste products. In most cases, incontinence is used as a term to describe a lack of control of urination. Urine is held in the bladder by a sphincter muscle which is controllable. The same applies to the anus as well where the anal sphincter controls are affected whether an individual defecates or not. Incontinence refers to the situation where either or both of the sphincters fail to do their jobs. Incontinence is something that is deeply embarrassing for the woman. Urinary incontinence occurs twice as often in women than it does in men. The reasons for this include the difference in the structure of the female urinary tract. Other reasons include pregnancy related problems and damage or temporary damage that occurs during child birth. There are many different causes of incontinence in women . The most common causes of incontinence in women are childbirth, pregnancy, menopause, birth defects, strokes, nerve disorders and age related problems. It should be understood that urinary incontinence in women is a medical problem and not something that the woman must simply accept as a fact of life that is associated with aging. Therefore, medical help should be sought when it is found that the woman is suffering from this problem. Incontinence in elderly women is more common than in younger women although one must not accept this as a part of the ageing process. For incontinence in women, treatment can be sought through different methods before one seeks a surgical option to cure the problem. Surgery should be the last option used after one has exhausted other options for incontinence in women treatment. The first thing that one can do, particularly for urinary incontinence, is to follow a timed schedule for urination. One should urinate regularly and maintain a record of how often this is occurring. It has been found in most cases that women tend to gradually regain control of their bladder through this method. Once this occurs, the timing between visits to the bathroom can be increased as the sphincter muscle becomes more cooperative to instructions. Another way of dealing with urinary incontinence in women is through the use of kegel exercises. Kegel exercises are exercises used to strengthen the sphincter muscle and the bladder muscles. These exercises involve the voluntary contraction and release of the pelvic muscles. The key here is to ensure that one only targets the pelvic muscles and nothing else. By contracting other muscles, especially the stomach muscles, one might end up worsening the situation rather than helping with the condition. Kegel exercises can be performed for just five to ten minutes each day with the benefits being felt within weeks of beginning such a regime. These exercises should not be attempted while one is urinating, even if the urination is involuntary. There is also a medical option for treating urinary incontinence in women. Medications can be used to help reduce the activity of an overactive bladder. An important thing to understand is that stress can also be a trigger for this problem. Medication is very often used as a treatment for stress incontinence. This tackles the underlying problem, which is stress, rather than the symptom of urinary problems. Once the person is in a more relaxed mode, the chances of her recovering from incontinence are higher. Related Posts Symptoms of Urinary Incontinence | Treatment, Home Remedies for Urinary Incontinence Urinary incontinence refers to the loss of bladder control. It is a common problem which may sometim... Bladder Control Problems - in Women, After Pregnancy | Natural Bladder Control Treatment Bladder Control Problems
Bladder control problems are very common in women and research shows that ... Fecal Incontinence Causes | Treatment | Control Bowel Movements Fecal Incontinence Causes and Treatment
Causes of Fecal Incontinence
Fecal incontinence is defined... Home Remedies for Hot Flashes - An Unpleasant Menopausal Symptom That Every Women Experience Excessive Night Sweats | Sleep Hyperhidrosis | Night Sweats Causes • • • Categories Acupressure ADHD Alternate Therapies Aromatherapy Beauty Bone, Joint & Muscles Disorders Child Health Common Ailments Depression Exercise Foods that Heal Gall Bladder General Health Hair Care Hematoma Massage Therapy Men's Health Natural Cures Sexual Health Women's Health Yogic Cures for Diseases Sign up Bookmark us Subscribe newsletter Home Remedies | Articles | Specialists | Ask a Question | Blog | Medicanet | Yoga | Vitamins | English | Spanish Terms and Conditions for Usage of this Site www.home-remedies-for-you.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additiona