
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 21:06:13 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.6 (Fedora)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ulcerative Colitis: Inflammatory Bowel Disease Calculate Your Body Fat Percentage How Flexible Are You? Sit and Reach Test Assess Your Active and Resting Metabolic Rate Calculate Your Real Age & Life Expectancy How Many Calories Do You Burn While Walking Calculate Child or Teen Body Composition Have You Posted  Pictures on the Internet? Invasive Surveillance Awaits MSG Lurks As A Slow Poison In Common Food Items Without Knowing Avoid Ice Creams With Toxic Ingredients Cure Tooth Decay Naturally By  Identifying The Real Cause of Cavities Why is Glycemic Load More Significant Than Glycemic Index? Everything Is A Lie: The Deliberate Intent To Deceive People Is At An All Time High The H1N1 Vaccine Is A Much Greater  Risk To Your Health Than The Flu Itself The Facts, Stats and Dangers of Soda Pop Soy Lecithin: How It Negatively Affects Your Health And Why You Need To Avoid It VO2 Max: How Fit Is An Athlete? Hogwash Alert: One Flu Shot To Protect All Humans From All Flu Strains For Ten Years? Awaken Your Brain: Coming Alive to Vibrant Well-being and a New Reality Free Energy Is An Absolute Imperative For The Future Of The Earth And Humanity How Dangerous Is Fluoride To Your Health? Never Be Sick Again: Understanding Disease Email Address * Please note that most treatment modalities listed below are based on conventional medicine. PreventDisease.com does not advocate the use of any pharmaceutical drug treatments. Long-term drug therapy is very detrimental to human health. All drug information is for your reference only and readers are strongly encouraged to research healthier alternatives to any drug therapies listed. Ulcerative 
                Colitis: Inflammatory Bowel Disease WHAT 
                IS ULCERATIVE COLITIS AND INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE? Inflammatory 
                Bowel Disease Inflammatory 
              bowel disease (IBD) is a general term that covers two specific disorders: 
              ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Ulcerative Colitis. Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory 
              disease of the large intestine. Ulcers form in the inner lining, 
              or mucosa , of the colon or rectum, often resulting in diarrhea, 
              blood, and pus. The inflammation is usually most severe in the sigmoid 
              and rectum and usually diminishes higher in the colon. It is sometimes 
              divided into 1 of 4 categories depending on the location of the 
              disease: Proctitis. 
                  Disease only in the rectum (the lowest part of the large intestine 
                  that connects with the anus). Constitutes about 30% of cases. Protosigmoiditis. 
                  Disease in the rectum and sigmoid (the next portion of the intestine 
                  leading up from the rectum). Constitutes about 30% of cases. Left-Sided 
                  Colitis. Disease in the left side of the large intestine. Constitutes 
                  about 40% of cases. Pancolitis. 
                  Disease in entire colon. Very uncommon. In most patients 
              the location of the disease does not change, but as many as 30% 
              of patients with proctitis or proctosigmoiditis will experience 
              some progression. Crohn's Disease. Crohn's disease is an inflammation 
              that extends into the deeper layers of the intestinal wall. It is 
              found most often in the ileum and the cecum, which is sometimes 
              referred to as the ileocecal region . Crohn's disease, however, 
              can develop in any part of the gastrointestinal tract, including 
              the anus, stomach, esophagus, and even the mouth. It may affect 
              the entire colon or form a string of contiguous ulcers in one part 
              of the colon or develop as multiple scattered clusters of ulcers 
              skipping healthy tissue in between. THE GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT The gastrointestinal 
                      (GI) tract (the digestive system) is a tube that extends 
                      from the mouth to the anus. It is a complex organ system 
                      that first carries food from the mouth down the esophagus 
                      to the stomach and then through the small and large intestine 
                      to be excreted out through the rectum and anus. Esophagus The esophagus , 
                      commonly called the food pipe, is a narrow muscular tube, 
                      about nine and a half inches long, that begins below the 
                      tongue and ends at the stomach. Stomach In the stomach , acids and stomach motion break food down 
                      into particles small enough so that nutrients can be absorbed 
                      by the small intestine. Small Intestine The small 
                      intestine, despite its name, is the longest part of the 
                      gastrointestinal tract and is about 20 feet long. Food that 
                      passes from the stomach into the small intestine first passes 
                      through three parts: First it enters the duodenum, Then the jejunum , and Finally the ileum . Most 
                      of the digestive process occurs in the small intestine. Large Intestine Undigested 
                      material, such as plant fiber, is passed to the large 
                      intestine , mostly in liquid form. The large intestine 
                      is approximately six feet long and is the final portion 
                      of the digestive tract. It follows the small intestine and 
                      includes the cecum , the appendix , the colon , 
                      and the rectum , which extends to the anus . Cecum and Appendix. The cecum and the appendix are located in the lower-right quadrant of the abdomen. Colon. The colon absorbs excess water and salts into 
                      the blood. The remaining waste matter is converted to feces 
                      through bacterial action. The colon is divided into four 
                      major sections. The first section, the ascending colon , 
                          extends upward from the cecum on the right side of the 
                          abdomen. The second section, the transverse colon , 
                          crosses the upper abdomen to the left side. The third section extends downward on the left side 
                          of the abdomen toward the pelvis and is called the descending 
                          colon . The final section is the sigmoid colon . Rectum 
                      and Anus. F eces are stored in the descending and sigmoid 
                      colon until they are passed through the rectum and anus . The rectum extends through the pelvis from 
                      the end of the sigmoid colon to the anus. WHAT 
                CAUSES INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE? The 
                Inflammatory Response Some researchers 
              believe that the disease develops in people who have a genetic susceptibility 
              that enables an agent such as a virus or bacteria to trigger an 
              abnormal immune response. The Immune System's Infection Fighters. The primary infection-fighting 
              units are two types of white blood cells: lymphocytes and leukocytes. Lymphocytes include two subtypes known as T-cell s and B-cells. Both types of cells are designed to recognize foreign invaders (antigens) 
              and to launch an offensive or defensive action against them: B-cells 
                  produce antibodies, which are separate agents that can either 
                  ride along with a B-cell or travel on their own to attack the 
                  antigen. T-cells 
                  have special receptors attached to their surface that recognize 
                  the specific antigen. T-cells are further 
              categorized as killer T-cells or helper T-cells (TH cells). Killer 
                  T-cells directly attack antigens that occur in any cells that 
                  contain a nucleus. Helper 
                  T-cells also recognize antigens, but their role is two fold. 
                  They stimulate B-cells and other white cells to attack the antigen. 
                  They also produce cytokines , powerful immune factors 
                  that have an important role in the inflammatory process . Helper T-Cells 
              and Inflammatory Bowel Disease. The actions of the helper T-cells 
              are of special interest in inflammatory bowel disease: TH-cells 
                  stimulate other white blood cells called B-cells to produce 
                  antibodies. In this case, however, they appear to direct the 
                  B-cells to produce autoantibodies , which are directed 
                  against the body's own cells. TH-cells 
                  also secrete or stimulate the production of powerful immune 
                  factors called cytokines . In small amounts, cytokines 
                  are indispensable for healing. If overproduced, however, they 
                  can cause serious damage, including inflammation and cellular 
                  injury. Cytokines, particularly specific ones known as tumor 
                  necrosis factor , interferon-gamma , and interleukins , 
                  cause intestinal inflammation and damage, which, in a vicious 
                  cycle, attract even more helper-T cells. Helper T-cells 
              are further categorized as TH1 and TH2. An imbalance in these two 
              types appear to occur in IBD, although each disorder has a different 
              balance: of helper-T cells (Th1 and Th2) occurs in IBD: Ulcerative 
                  colitis patients favor a Th2 response, which activates the interleukins 
                  IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, and IL-10 that mostly affect mucosal areas 
                  in the intestine. Research 
                  indicates that Crohn's disease patients have increased activity 
                  in Th1 helper cells, which activates interleukin-2 (IL-2) and 
                  interferon-gamma that affect intestinal cells. Tumor necrosis 
                  factor may a particularly potent immune factor in Crohn's disease. 
                  It is important in properties that regulate inflammation and 
                  cell proliferation. If genetic or other factors increases production 
                  of this immune compound, it can lead to great harm. The interleukin 
              6 appears to play a part in both IBDs, by inhibiting a natural mechanism 
              called apoptosis, a process whereby cells self-destruct. In such 
              cases, cells proliferate faster than they die, causing an excessively 
              strong immune response. Adhesion Molecules. Increased levels of certain molecules 
              called E-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) 
              also appear to play a major role in the inflammatory process by 
              causing certain damaging immune factors to accumulate on intestinal 
              cells. E-selectin may be involved in the early stages of the disease 
              (especially ulcerative colitis) and ICAM-1 in the persistence of 
              either inflammatory bowel disease. Matrix Metalloproteinase. Greater activity of enzymes called 
              matrix metalloproteinase has been detected in the colons of patients 
              with IBD. Such increased levels tend to break down the extracellular 
              matrix, a barrier composed of structural proteins and elastic fibers 
              that surrounds and supports cells, in this case in the colon. Researchers 
              suggest that this activity may cause persistent damage once the 
              inflammatory process has triggered IBD. Genetic 
                Factors Although the 
              causes of inflammatory bowel disease are not yet known, genetic 
              factors certainly play some role. Between 10% and 20% of people 
              with ulcerative colitis have family members with the disease. Specific Genes Involved in Ulcerative Colitis. A number of 
              genes are under investigation. A genetic complex called IKBL may be a marker for severe ulcerative 
              colitis. Some research is also focusing on alpha 1-antitrypsin (alpha 1-AT), 
              an enzyme that helps protect the elasticity of tissue from certain 
              damaging immune factors. Genetic factors that cause alpha 1-AT deficiencies 
              are known to be responsible for some cases of emphysema, and some 
              research indicates that they also may contribute to some cases in 
              which both severe ulcerative colitic and emphysema occur. Infectious 
                Agents Some research 
              indicates that infectious agents, either viruses or mycobacteria, 
              may be responsible for triggering the inflammatory process leading 
              to ulcerative colitis. Studies have found that children with IBD 
              are likely to have more and earlier childhood infections, so a number 
              of specific childhood infectious agents have become a focus of some 
              interest. Escherichia (E.) Coli. E. coli is a very common bacteria 
              that inhabits the intestine. Although in most cases the bacteria 
              are harmless, there are many strains. Some investigators theorize 
              that E. coli strains in people ulcerative colitis may produce more 
              toxins or excessively bind to the intestinal walls. Measles. Of particular notice is the measles virus. Some 
              research has found a link between a history of childhood measles 
              and a higher risk for IBD. In one small study, there was an association 
              between a vaccine-type measles strain and ulcerative colitis. Recent 
              studies have found no higher risk for inflammatory bowel disease 
              with the measles vaccine. And, in fact, one investigation found 
              some protection with the vaccine. Cytomegalovirus. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common virus 
              that is also under suspicion as a contributor to severe cases of 
              IBD. Dietary 
                Factors Because inflammatory 
              bowel disease is much more prevalent in industrialized nations, 
              experts believe diet must play some role, although studies have 
              been conflicting over its importance. There has been some suggestion, 
              for example, that some cases of ulcerative colitis may be caused 
              by an allergy to milk, although studies have failed to prove a causal 
              connection. [See Box, The Role of Diet in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.] WHAT 
                ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE? The two major 
              inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), ulcerative colitis and Crohn's 
              disease share the following characteristics: Symptoms 
                  usually appear in young adults. Symptoms 
                  can develop gradually or have a sudden onset. Both are 
                  chronic. In either disease, symptoms may flare up (relapse) 
                  after symptom-free periods (remission) or symptoms may be continuous 
                  without treatment. Symptoms 
                  can be mild or very severe and disabling. The severity 
                  of symptoms and relapse rates of both IBDs vary with seasons, 
                  with highest risk in the winter and autumn and lowest in summer. The two disorders, 
              however, also have different symptoms and is it important to differentiate 
              between them, since the require different treatments. [ See Table Symptoms of Inflammatory Bowel Disease .] Of particular interest was a 2001 study reporting that early symptoms 
              (called a prodrome) may appear in Crohn's disease, starting about 
              seven years before the full-blown symptoms occur. The prodrome symptoms 
              included bloating, diarrhea, stomach pain, fever, weight loss and 
              fatigue. The prodromal period in ulcerative colitis is much shorted 
              (about a year). Symptoms 
                of Inflammatory Bowel Disease Symptoms Ulcerative 
                      Colitis Crohn's 
                      Disease Diarrhea (Most common symptom of both IBDs) Blood is almost always present in stools; it may be readily 
                      visible or visible only using a. microscope (called occult 
                      blood) Recurrent diarrhea common symptom but onset may be 
                      very gradual and mild or it may not be present. Feces may 
                      also contain mucus. Recurrent diarrhea is an important symptom. Bleeding not 
                      as common as in UC, but can occur. Constipation Constipation can be a symptom of UC but not as common as 
                      diarrhea. Can occur during flare-ups. May occur when the 
                      inflamed rectum triggers a reflex response in the colon 
                      that causes it to retain the stool. Constipation in Crohn's disease is usually a symptom of 
                      obstruction in the small intestine. Abdominal 
                      Symptoms Pain is not prominent symptom. May cause vague discomfort 
                      in the lower abdomen, an ache around the top of the hipbone, 
                      or cramps in the middle of the abdomen. Severe pain can 
                      occur during flare-ups. Vomiting and nausea. Hallmark symptom is recurrent episodes of pain in the lower 
                      right part of the abdomen or above the pubic bone. Often 
                      preceded by and relieved by defecation. Bloating, nausea, 
                      and vomiting may also occur. Intestinal pain may also be 
                      an indication of a serious condition, such as an abscess, 
                      or a perforation of the intestinal wall. Fever May occur with severe attacks. Usually low-grade. Spiking fever and chills indicates complications. Loss 
                      of appetite and weight loss Often not evident in mild or even moderately severe UC. Usually, but not always. Typical weight loss is 10% to 20% 
                      of normal. Abnormal 
                      defecation Increased frequency, a feeling of incomplete 
                      evacuation, and tenesmus (a painful urge for a bowel movement 
                      even if the rectum is empty). Fecal incontinence. Symptoms may be mild or severe. Can occur in active stages. Anal 
                      ulcers and fistulas (Channels that can burrow between 
                      organs, loops of the intestine, or between the intestines 
                      and skin. Almost never a symptom. Fistulas and ulcers around the anus may be early symptoms 
                      of CD. Neurologic 
                      or psychiatric symptoms No. May be early signs of Crohn's disease when accompanied by 
                      gastrointestinal problems. WHO 
                GETS ULCERATIVE COLITIS? General 
                Risk Factors An estimated 
              one to two million Americans suffer from inflammatory bowel disease 
              (IBD). (This wide statistical variation is due to the difficulty 
              in diagnosing these disorders and because people in remission may 
              not be identified.) It was thought that Crohn's disease was far 
              less common than ulcerative colitis, but currently the incidences 
              of each are estimated to be about equal. The incidence may vary 
              depending on gender, age, and geography: Men and 
                  women have equal risk for ulcerative colitis. IBD diagnosed 
                  most often in young people between the ages between the ages 
                  of 10 and 19, but it can occur at any age. Another lesser peak 
                  onset occurs between 50 and 80. About 2% of IBD cases appear 
                  in children below age 10. Ulcerative 
                  colitis is highest among people of European descent. People 
                  of African descent have a lower incidence than Caucasians. Low 
                  incidence regions include Asia (including Japan) and South America. 
                  Ethnically, Jewish people have a higher risk than non-Jewish 
                  individuals. Ulcerative 
                  colitis may disproportionately affect people of higher socioeconomic 
                  classes, but evidence for this is inconclusive. Factors 
                Associated with a Higher or Lower Risk for Ulcerative Colitis Smoking. Smokers have lower than average rates of ulcerative colitis (but 
              higher than average rates of Crohn's disease). Some patients with 
              ulcerative colitis, in fact, have reported that their disorder began 
              after they quit smoking, and many studies have reinforced the association 
              between smoking and protection against ulcerative colitis. (This 
              information is certainly no encouragement to smoke. Rather, patients 
              should ask their physician about trials using nicotine replacement 
              aids.) Breast Feeding. Breast feeding also appears linked to lower 
              risk for UC. Left-Handedness. People who are left handed have a significantly 
              higher risk for both IBDs as well as for certain other diseases 
              associated with immune abnormalities. Depression. A 2001 study reported that patients with ulcerative 
              colitis were more likely to have a history of depression or anxiety 
              than those without the IBD. Some researchers suggest that depression 
              may alter the immune system and make people more susceptible to 
              ulcerative colitis. HOW 
                SERIOUS IS ULCERATIVE COLITIS? General 
                Outlook for Ulcerative Colitis Surgical removal 
              of the colon is the only cure for ulcerative colitis, but the disease 
              varies greatly in severity. In one 10-year study, 87% of patients 
              went into complete remission after a single attack and only 8% developed 
              a chronic persistent condition. Mortality rates were approximately 
              the same as in the general population, although they were higher 
              in UC patients with severe initial attacks or extensive disease. 
              Surgical and medical treatments have complications of their own 
              that can be very severe. Criteria 
                for Severity of Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative colitis 
              is considered mild if a patient has the following symptoms: four or 
                  less movements a day only occasional 
                  blood in the stool a normal 
                  temperature and pulse rate normal 
                  hemoglobin or red blood cell count no abnormalities 
                  observed on x-rays of the colon Ulcerative colitis 
              is considered serious if the following symptoms are present: more than 
                  six movements a day frequent 
                  to persistent blood and mucus in the stool (in serious cases, 
                  stool is liquid and looks like anchovy sauce) fever a rapid 
                  pulse anemia abnormal 
                  x-rays of the colon tenderness 
                  in the abdomen when pressed, with possible distention Complications 
                      of Ulcerative Colitis Complications 
                      in the Intestine Malabsorption 
                    and malnutrition. Malabsorption is the inability of the 
                    intestines to absorb nutrients. In IBD, this occurs as a result 
                    of bleeding and diarrhea, as a side effect from some of the 
                    medications, and as a result of surgery. Malnutrition typically 
                    develops rapidly after the condition has been present for 
                    some time. Toxic 
                    Megacolon. UC patients have a higher than normal risk. 
                    A serious complication that can occur if inflammation spreads 
                    into the deeper layers of the colon. In such cases, the colon 
                    enlarges and becomes paralyzed. In severe cases, it may rupture, 
                    a surgical emergency that carries a 30% mortality rate. Symptoms 
                    include weakness and abdominal pain and bloating; the patient 
                    may be disoriented or groggy. X-rays are needed to confirm 
                    the diagnosis, but barium enemas and colonoscopies should 
                    not be performed. Medications used for pain and diarrhea, 
                    such as opiates and drugs that reduce spasms of the colon 
                    may increase the risk of toxic megacolon. Its incidence is 
                    decreasing with treatment advances. Heavy 
                    Rectal Bleeding. Bleeding due to ulcers in the colon 
                    is a common complication or UC and, in some cases, massive 
                    bleeding can be dangerous. Intestinal 
                    Cancers. UC patients have a higher than normal risk for 
                    colon cancer. Estimated to be 5% to 10% after 10 years and 
                    15% to 40% after 30 years. They should consider annual screening 
                    for colon cancer with colonoscopy beginning as early as age 
                    25, depending on other risk factors, particularly any evidence 
                    of precancerous tissue (dysplasia). New tests for certain 
                    genetic markers may help determine increased risk. Note: inflammation 
                    can produce changes in tissue that resemble precancerous or 
                    cancerous changes, increasing the chance for a false diagnosis 
                    of cancer. Inflammatory bowel disease in the rectum and lower 
                    (sigmoid) colon does not significantly increase the risk for 
                    cancer. [For more information, 
            55, Colon and Rectal Cancers.] Complications 
                      Outside the Intestine Eyes. Inflammation in parts of the eye. Common complication. Retinal 
                    disease, including detachment (rare). People with accompanying 
                    arthritic complications may be at higher risk for eye problems. Joints. Stiffness and arthritic-like symptoms in the joints from inflammation. 
                    The spine is commonly affected. Bones. Low body weight and calcium loss from corticosteroids contribute 
                    to osteoporosis (bone loss). There has been some concern that 
                    the disease itself may promote bone loss, although a 2000 
                    study found no evidence for this. Anemia. Higher than normal risk. Liver 
                    Disorders. Higher risk in UC patients. Of note is a higher 
                    risk (although rare) for primary sclerosing cholangitis, which 
                    is persistent inflammation of the bile duct that can later 
                    cause serious obstruction. Skin 
                    Disorders. UC patients have higher risk for skin disorders 
                    and may experience ulcer eruptions called pyoderma gangrenosum, 
                    that heal in the center and spread. Thromboembolism 
                    (Blood Clots). Clots most likely to occur in lower extremities 
                    and pelvic area. Kidney 
                    Disorders. Kidney stones and some impairment. Lung 
                    Involvement. Common, but may develop for years without 
                    symptoms. Mouth 
                    Sores. Including canker sores, benign growths, and yeast 
                    infections. Slightly higher than average risk in UC, but it 
                    is uncommon and lower than in Crohn's disease. Delayed 
                    Growth and Development in Children. Slightly higher than 
                    average risk in UC, but it is lower than in Crohn's disease. Fertility. Fertility rates in women are close to normal, but UC surgery 
                    can increase the risk for infertility. Prematurity rates high 
                    with both. In one study, almost 40% had ovarian cysts and 
                    18% had a hysterectomy, mostly to relieve pain (study did 
                    not differentiate between UC and CD). Hodgkin's 
                    Disease. Patients with UC are at higher risk for Hodgkin's 
                    disease, according to a 2000 Italian study. The risk of other 
                    cancers was not increased, however. Menstrual 
                    Problems in Women. Menstrual abnormalities, including 
                    premenstrual disorder, abnormal bleeding, and pain. Pain with 
                    intercourse (about 50%). Sexual function may be impaired, 
                    not only because of the emotional impact, but also by treatment 
                    side effects and complications of the diseases, such as fistulas. Emotional 
                    and Neurologic Factors. The emotional consequences of 
                    UC cannot be overestimated, particularly in children. Eating 
                    becomes associated with fear of abdominal pain before the 
                    end of the meal. Frequent attacks of diarrhea can cause such 
                    a strong sense of humiliation that social isolation and low 
                    self-esteem may result. Adolescents with IBD may have added 
                    problems that increase emotional distress, including weight 
                    gain from steroid treatments and delayed puberty. Intestinal 
                      Cancers. UC patients have a higher than normal risk 
                      for colon cancer. Estimated to be 5% to 10% after 10 years 
                      and 15% to 40% after 30 years. They should consider annual 
                      screening for colon cancer with colonoscopy beginning as 
                      early as age 25, depending on other risk factors, particularly 
                      any evidence of precancerous tissue (dysplasia). New tests 
                      for certain genetic markers may help determine increased 
                      risk. Note: inflammation can produce changes in tissue that 
                      resemble precancerous or cancerous changes, increasing the 
                      chance for a false diagnosis of cancer. Inflammatory bowel 
                      disease in the rectum and lower (sigmoid) colon does not 
                      significantly increase the risk for cancer. [For more information, 
                      
            55, Colon and Rectal Cancers.] Complications 
                      Outside the Intestine Eyes. Inflammation in parts of the eye. Common complication. Retinal 
                      disease, including detachment (rare). People with accompanying 
                      arthritic complications may be at higher risk for eye problems. Joints. Stiffness and arthritic-like symptoms in the joints from 
                      inflammation. The spine is commonly affected. Bones. Low body weight and calcium loss from corticosteroids contribute 
                      to osteoporosis (bone loss). There has been some concern 
                      that the disease itself may promote bone loss, although 
                      a 2000 study found no evidence for this. Anemia. Higher than normal risk. Liver 
                      Disorders. Higher risk in UC patients. Of note is a 
                      higher risk (although rare) for primary sclerosing cholangitis, 
                      which is persistent inflammation of the bile duct that can 
                      later cause serious obstruction. Skin 
                      Disorders. UC patients have higher risk for skin disorders 
                      and may experience ulcer eruptions called pyoderma gangrenosum, 
                      that heal in the center and spread. Thromboembolism 
                      (Blood Clots). Clots most likely to occur in lower extremities 
                      and pelvic area. Kidney 
                      Disorders. Kidney stones and some impairment. Lung 
                      Involvement. Common, but may develop for years without 
                      symptoms. Mouth 
                      Sores. Including canker sores, benign growths, and yeast 
                      infections. Slightly higher than average risk in UC, but 
                      it is uncommon and lower than in Crohn's disease. Delayed 
                      Growth and Development in Children. Slightly higher 
                      than average risk in UC, but it is lower than in Crohn's 
                      disease. Fertility. Fertility rates in women are close to normal, but UC surgery 
                      can increase the risk for infertility. Prematurity rates 
                      high with both. In one study, almost 40% had ovarian cysts 
                      and 18% had a hysterectomy, mostly to relieve pain (study 
                      did not differentiate between UC and CD). Hodgkin's 
                      Disease. Patients with UC are at higher risk for Hodgkin's 
                      disease, according to a 2000 Italian study. The risk of 
                      other cancers was not increased, however. Menstrual 
                      Problems in Women. Menstrual abnormalities, including 
                      premenstrual disorder, abnormal bleeding, and pain. Pain 
                      with intercourse (about 50%). Sexual function may be impaired, 
                      not only because of the emotional impact, but also by treatment 
                      side effects and complications of the diseases, such as 
                      fistulas. Emotional 
                      and Neurologic Factors. The emotional consequences of 
                      UC cannot be overestimated, particularly in children. Eating 
                      becomes associated with fear of abdominal pain before the 
                      end of the meal. Frequent attacks of diarrhea can cause 
                      such a strong sense of humiliation that social isolation 
                      and low self-esteem may result. Adolescents with IBD may 
                      have added problems that increase emotional distress, including 
                      weight gain from steroid treatments and delayed puberty. HOW 
                IS INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE DIAGNOSED? Preliminary 
                Examination and Tests The physician 
              will take a history and perform a thorough physical examination. 
              The disease is particularly difficult to diagnose in children, in 
              whom IBD may be mistaken for an infection or even depression if 
              other characteristic symptoms, such as bloody diarrhea and weight 
              loss, are not present. A number of laboratory tests may be taken, such as the following: Blood 
                  tests are used for various reasons. An increased number of white 
                  blood cells may indicate the presence of inflammation. Blood 
                  tests are used to determine the presence of anemia and to measure 
                  liver enzymes. (They are abnormal in about 3% of ulcerative 
                  colitis patients.) New blood tests that measure certain antibodies 
                  may make it easier to differentiate Crohn's disease from ulcerative 
                  colitis in children. A stool 
                  sample is taken and examined for blood, infectious agents, or 
                  both. Endoscopic 
                Procedures Flexible sigmoidoscopy 
              and colonoscopy are procedures that involve snaking a fiberoptic 
              tube called an endoscope through the rectum to view the lining of 
              the colon. The physician also inserts instruments through it to 
              remove tissue sample for a biopsy. The procedures may help the physician 
              to distinguish between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, as 
              well as other diseases: Sigmoidoscopy, 
                  which is used to examine the rectum and left (sigmoid) colon, 
                  lasts about 10 minutes and is done without sedation. It may 
                  be mildly uncomfortable, but it is not painful. Ulcerative colitis 
                  almost always involves the lower left colon and rectum and is 
                  diagnosed using sigmoidoscopy. The physician usually observes 
                  an evenly distributed inflamed surface lining the intestine, 
                  and the bowel wall bleeds easily when touched with a swab. Colonoscopy 
                  allows a view of the entire colon and requires a sedative, but 
                  it is still performed on an outpatient basis. It is usually 
                  not necessary for an initial diagnosis of ulcerative colitis 
                  but it may be useful for determining the extent of the colitis 
                  and for ruling out Crohn's disease. X-rays X-rays are taken 
              of the abdomen when a patient has a severe attack of ulcerative 
              colitis. In such cases, the edges of the colon are swollen and irregular. 
              X-rays may also reveal thickened walls and other signs of severity. In some cases, a barium enema may be performed to view the whole 
              colon. However, this procedure is best avoided and should not be 
              done during active periods of disease in any case, because it increases 
              the risk for toxic megacolon. Magnetic 
                Resonance Imaging (MRI) Magnetic resonance 
              imaging is another advanced imaging technique that may be useful 
              for detecting injuries related to Crohn's diseases. A variant called 
              magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) may prove to be useful for 
              differentiating between Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Ruling 
                out Diseases Resembling Inflammatory Bowel Disease Irritable 
              Bowel Syndrome. Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), also known 
              as spastic colon, functional bowel disease, and spastic colitis, 
              causes many of the same symptoms as inflammatory bowel disease. 
              Bloating, diarrhea, constipation, and abdominal cramps are all symptoms 
              of IBS. Irritable bowel syndrome is not caused by inflammation, 
              however, and no fever or bleeding occurs. Behavioral therapy may 
              be helpful in treating IBS. (No psychologic therapy improves inflammatory 
              bowel disease.) Microscopic Colitis. Microscopic colitis causes chronic 
              watery diarrhea, but the colon lining shows little or no signs of 
              inflammation. It may be genetically linked to celiac sprue. Most 
              patients can expect to improve. Celiac Sprue. Celiac sprue, or celiac disease, is usually 
              first noticed in children. It is an intolerance to gluten (found 
              in wheat) that triggers inflammation in the small intestine and 
              causes diarrhea, vitamin deficiencies, and stool abnormalities. Infections. If endoscopy reveals inflammation, a physician 
              must always rule out possible infections before a diagnosis of inflammatory 
              bowel disease can be confirmed. Acute Appendicitis. Crohn's disease may cause tenderness 
              in the right lower part of the abdomen where the appendix is located 
              and resembles appendicitis. Cancer. Colon or rectal cancers must always be ruled out 
              when symptoms of IBD occur. Intestinal Ischemia. Symptoms similar to IBS can be caused 
              by blockage of blood flow in the intestine. This is more likely 
              to occur in elderly people. WHAT 
                IS THE ROLE OF DIET IN ULCERATIVE COLITIS? Maintaining 
                or Achieving Normal Weight Malnutrition 
              is very common in ulcerative colitis (although it tends to be more 
              severe in Crohn's disease). Some experts recommend that children 
              with IBD increase their calorie and protein intake by 150% of the 
              daily recommended allowance for their specific ages and heights. 
              Studies indicate that nutritional support in children is as important 
              as medications for achieving remission. People whose weights are 
              normal or no less than 90% of normal do not need to add extra calories. Foods 
                Important for Protection Protein. Proteins are very important for growth in children and for repair 
              of cells. Diarrhea can cause protein deficiency and so IBD patients 
              may need more protein than the general population. Patients might 
              consider choosing fish and soy as primary protein sources. One study 
              reported that a soy protein diet was particularly useful for patients 
              who were intolerant to milk products. Dried beans and legumes also 
              provide protein. Complex Carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates found in whole 
              grains, fruits, and vegetables should make up half of a patient's 
              calories. Patients should select complex carbohydrates, which are 
              also a good source of fiber. Fresh fruit (such as apples, grapefruit, 
              oranges, plums, blueberries, raspberries, and strawberries) might 
              actually be specifically protective for IBD. (It should noted, however 
              that simple sugars can increase inflammation, so patients should 
              avoid dried fruits and high-sugar fruits, such as grapes, pineapple, 
              and watermelon.) It should be noted that high-fiber foods can cause gas, bloating, 
              and pain, particularly in IBD patients. Commercial products (eg, 
              Beano) are available that can reduce gas. Eating small, frequent 
              meals can also help. Fluids (non-caffeinated). Drinking plenty of water is particularly 
              important. Fats and Oils. Some studies have found an association between 
              high fat intake with later development of ulcerative colitis. While 
              animal ( saturated ) fats have been most often suspected in 
              IBD, one 2000 study reported an association with ulcerative colitis 
              and a high intake of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (found 
              in vegetable oils) as well as vitamin B6. In addition, in one 2000 
              study, ulcerative colitis patients taking fish oil supplements experienced increased disease activity. Other studies have not reported 
              such risks. Such studies are significant because fish oil contain 
              omega-3 fatty acids, which are thought to have anti-inflammatory 
              effects. Until more is known, patients should maintain a low-fat 
              diet and eat fish in moderation. Potassium-rich Foods. Examples are potatoes, avocados, and 
              bananas. Foods 
                Associated with Higher Risk for Symptoms Exclusion 
              Diets. Exclusion diets are those that eliminate certain allergenic 
              foods or those that might irritate the intestine. To determine these 
              foods, patients use a so-called elimination/challenge approach. 
              First they remove all suspect foods from their diet for two weeks 
              and then reintroduce one food every three days. Patients then watch 
              for any symptoms that might indicate an allergic or irritant response, 
              including gastrointestinal problems, headaches, and flushing. Some 
              experts believe, however, that this approach is very difficult and 
              studies are weak in confirming its value for maintaining remission. Typical avoidance foods are as follows: Saturated 
                  fats, found in animal and dairy products. (Fats, in general, 
                  have complicated effects on IBD and are discussed in detail 
                  below.) Milk products. 
                  Some people with IBD are lactose intolerant (unable to digest 
                  the sugar lactose, found in milk products). Taking lactase tablets 
                  or specially prepared dairy products may help. (Many lactose-intolerant 
                  patients are still able to eat yogurt with active cultures, 
                  which could be helpful for IBD.) Foods 
                  associated with inflammation (alcohol, simple sugars, and caffeine). 
                  Fruits may be protective, but patients should avoid dried fruits 
                  or high-sugar fruits, such as grapes, watermelon, or pineapple. Products 
                  containing corn or gluten (those made from wheat, oats, barley, 
                  or triticale). Common 
                  allergenic foods, such as soy, eggs, peanuts, tomatoes. Foods 
                  that may irritated the intestine, particularly so-called Brassica 
                  vegetables (cabbage, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower, 
                  kale). Oxalate-rich 
              Foods. Oxalate-rich foods may increase the risk for kidney 
              stones, which is a common complication in IBD. Examples are beets, 
              beet tops, black tea, chenopodium, chocolate, cocoa, dried figs, 
              ground pepper, lamb quarters, lime peel, nuts, parsley, poppy seeds, 
              purslane, rhubarb, sorrel, spinach, and Swiss chard. Vitamins 
                and Other Supplements Vitamins. Deficiencies of vitamins A, C, E, B12, and folate (a B vitamin), 
              may result from malabsorption. In general, vitamin supplements may 
              be recommended for everyone with IBD, particularly for children 
              to avoid growth retardation. Vitamins A, C, and E are antioxidants, 
              which are scavengers of damaging particles in the body. Folic acid 
              supplements are particularly important for patients who must restrict 
              fresh fruits and vegetables and for those taking sulfasalazine. 
              Folate deficiencies may contribute to the increased risk for colon 
              cancer in ulcerative colitis patients. Monthly injections of vitamin 
              B-12 may be necessary. Vitamin D is necessary for bone protection. 
              Because some vitamins, such as A and D, can be toxic high doses, 
              patients should discuss specific dosages with their physicians. Mineral Supplements. Supplements of calcium, magnesium, 
              zinc, selenium, and iron may be needed to offset deficiencies in 
              patients with severe IBD. Calcium and magnesium are critical for 
              health and strong bones. Selenium is a potent antioxidant. Iron 
              supplements may be required for anemia. It should be noted that 
              iron overdose is very dangerous. As few as three adult iron tablets 
              can poison children, even fatally. No one, even adults, should take 
              a double dose of iron if one is missed. A physician should advise 
              patients carefully on correct dosage. HOW 
                ARE SYMPTOMS MANAGED? Diarrhea 
                and Constipation The following 
              are some ways of managing diarrhea, constipation, or both: Mild to 
                  moderate diarrhea may be reduced by taking one teaspoon of psyllium 
                  hydrophilic colloid (Metamucil) twice a day in a glass of water. Antidiarrheal 
                  drugs include loperamide (Imodium) and Lomotil. It should be 
                  noted that in very ill patients, large doses of certain antidiarrheal 
                  drugs, such as Lomotil, can trigger the onset of toxic megacolon. Opiates 
                  or drugs used to relax muscle spasms may help relieve mild to 
                  moderate diarrhea and abdominal cramps, but they should be used 
                  for very short periods and not for severe cases. Bulk-type 
                  laxatives can help constipation. Treatment 
                of Anemia Iron supplements 
              may be required for anemia. Intravenous iron with or without erythropoietin 
              (a hormone that acts in the bone marrow to increase the production 
              of red blood cells) is effective for severe anemia in IBD that does 
              not respond to iron alone. Crohn's disease patients benefit from 
              the combination; ulcerative colitis patients usually improve on 
              IV iron alone. Antidepressants Antidepressants 
              may help relieve emotional problems. It should be stressed, however, 
              that inflammatory bowel disease is not a psychologic disorder, and 
              such drugs will not affect the basic illness. Pain-Relievers Acetaminophen, 
              sold as Tylenol and other common brands, is the drug of choice for 
              mild pain. Acetaminophen is not one of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
              drugs (NSAIDs), which include, among dozens of others, aspirin, 
              ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Rufen), and naproxen (Anaprox, Naprosyn, 
              Aleve). NSAIDs are often used against other inflammatory disorders, 
              but they have been implicated in triggering inflammatory 
              bowel disease; one study found that they doubled the risk for emergency 
              treatment of gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with colitis. 
              NSAIDs, therefore, should be avoided for IBD. Alternative 
                Remedies Castor Oil 
              Pack. Some ulcerative colitis patients report relief from the 
              use of a castor oil pack for three consecutive days. The oil is 
              applied directly to the skin and then covered with a clean soft 
              cloth and plastic wrap. A hot water bottle or heating pad is then 
              placed over the pack for 30 to 60 minutes. Acupuncture. Acupuncture may help relieve symptoms in some 
              patients. Stress Reduction. Although stress is not a cause of inflammatory 
              bowel disease, there are reports of an association between stress 
              and symptom flare-ups. One study, for example, found that while 
              short term (past month) stress did not significantly exacerbate 
              ulcerative colitis symptoms, long term perceived stress tripled 
              the rate of flare-ups compared to patients who did not report feelings 
              of stress. Although no evidence exists to confirm that stress reduction 
              techniques, such as relaxation methods, meditation, or cognitive 
              therapy, manage the disease, they might be helpful. WHAT 
                ARE THE DRUG TREATMENTS FOR INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE? General 
                Guidelines Drugs cannot 
              cure inflammatory bowel disease, but they are effective in reducing 
              the inflammation and accompanying symptoms in up to 80% of patients. 
              The primary goal of drug therapy is to reduce inflammation in the 
              intestine. Drugs Used for IBD. Many drugs are available. The best treatments 
              for all phases of ulcerative colitis are preparations of aspirin-like 
              medications called mesalamine, or 5-aminosalicylic acid, and particularly 
              sulfasalazine. Corticosteroids and drugs that suppress the immune 
              system (immunosuppressants) are useful for IBD, both alone or in 
              combinations. New genetically engineered agents, such as infliximab 
              and other new agents are also be investigated. Combinations of standard 
              and new drugs are promising. Determining Success. The success of therapy is determined 
              by its ability to induce and maintain remissions without incurring 
              significant side effects. The patient's condition is generally considered 
              in remission when the intestinal lining has healed and symptoms, 
              such as diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and tenesmus (straining painfully 
              or ineffectively to defecate or urinate), are normal or close to 
              normal. Mesalamine 
                (5-Aminosalicylic Acid): Sulfasalazine and Other Preparations Mesalamine is 
              the common name of the compound 5-aminosalicylic acid or 5-ASA, 
              which inhibits factors in the immune system, importantly, the cytokines 
              that cause inflammation. Mesalamine alone is very effective for 
              IBD and has few side effects, but it is absorbed so quickly in the 
              upper gastrointestinal tract that it usually fails to reach the 
              colon. Other substances, therefore, are added to mesalamine or it 
              is formulated so that it can reach the lower intestine before it 
              is absorbed. Mesalamine preparations and formulations are very useful. They are 
              beneficial for treating active mild to moderate ulcerative colitis 
              (although not as effective as corticosteroids). Unlike corticosteroids, 
              however, they can be used for maintenance therapy and for preventing 
              relapse. Mesalamine seems to benefit women more than men. All mesalamine 
              preparations appear to be safe for children and for women who are 
              pregnant or nursing. Sulfasalazine. Sulfasalazine (Azulfidine) is the standard 
              mesalamine preparation. Sulfasalazine is known as a prodrug because 
              it becomes the active agent that is produced when it breaks down. 
              Intestinal bacteria break the agent down into two components: mesalamine 
              and sulfapyridine. Mesalamine, 
                  the active component, blocks the inflammatory process. Sulfapyridine 
                  (a sulfa antibiotic) plays no role in treating the disease but 
                  it does prevent mesalamine from being absorbed until it reaches 
                  the colon. It is useful 
              for treating mild to moderate UC attacks and for maintaining remission. 
              Long-term therapy may even help protect against colon and rectal 
              cancers in patients with ulcerative colitis. A syrup form of sulfasalazine 
              is available for children. Side effects of sulfasalazine differ depending on the specific component. Mesalamine 
                  Component. Mesalamine has a chemical structure similar to aspirin. 
                  Therefore, people allergic to aspirin should not take any of 
                  the 5-ASA drugs or preparations. Mesalamine itself has few side 
                  effects and is considered safe to take during pregnancy. One 
                  of the most common side effects is diarrhea, which varies depending 
                  on the preparation. For example, olsalazine poses a risk for 
                  diarrhea, which may be minimized by starting out with lower 
                  doses and taking the medication with meals. Other side effects 
                  of all oral forms of mesalamine are skin disorders, nausea, 
                  cramps, itchiness, anxiety attacks, and inflammation of other 
                  organs, although one study reported that mesalamine caused no 
                  more side effects than placebos (inactive substances used for 
                  comparisons in drug studies). Oral mesalamine, particularly 
                  Asacol, may slightly increase the risk for kidney damage. (Olsalazine 
                  has a lesser effect on the kidneys.) Sulfapyridine, 
                  the Sulfa Component. The sulfa component is responsible for 
                  most of sulfasalazine's adverse side effects, which are experienced 
                  by up to 30% of patients taking this drug. Some common side 
                  effects include allergic reactions, heartburn, headache, loss 
                  of appetite, abdominal discomfort, dizziness, anemia, fever, 
                  and rashes. The sulfa component may temporarily lower sperm 
                  count in men and can turn urine a bright orange-yellow color. 
                  Rare but serious side effects include a lupus-like disorder, 
                  pancreatitis, liver damage, and blood disorders, such as hemolytic 
                  anemia. (It should be noted that hemolytic anemia occurs in 
                  some cases of ulcerative colitis even without this treatment.) 
                  Blood counts should be performed regularly, particularly during 
                  the first few weeks of treatment. Sulfasalazine completely inhibits 
                  the absorption of folic acid and patients should take supplements 
                  of this important B vitamin. This is critical during pregnancy. 
                  As with most major drugs for IBD, withdrawal of sulfasalazine 
                  when the disease is still active can trigger a severe relapse. Other Mesalamine 
              Prodrugs. Olsalazine (Dipentum) and balsalazide (Colazide) 
              are similar to sulfasalazine, in that they are broken down by intestinal 
              bacteria into two components, one of which is mesalamine. Unlike 
              sulfasalazine, however, the other component in each drug is a harmless 
              molecule that does not produce the adverse side effects of the sulfa 
              component. (Mesalamine side effects are the same as in sulfasalazine.) 
              They may have greater effects on the kidney than sulfapyridine, 
              however, so kidney function should be monitored periodically. Mesalamine Enemas. Mesalamine enemas (Rowasa) have been 
              reported to help 75% to 90% of patients with ulcerative colitis 
              of the lower colon. Rowasa relieves mild to moderately active UC 
              and prevents relapse. According to a literature review published 
              in 2000, mesalamine enemas were more effective than steroid enemas 
              and oral therapies for left-sided ulcerative colitis. Delayed or Sustained Release Mesalamines. Formulations have 
              been developed that allow mesalamine alone to reach the lower intestine 
              without the need for the sulfa component. A number of oral forms 
              of mesalamine use coatings or time-released formulations to prevent 
              absorption in the upper intestine. Different brands affect different 
              regions in the intestine: Pentasa 
                  is an oral sustained-release mesalamine that is released from 
                  the stomach through the intestine and so is useful for disease 
                  in the both small intestine and colon. Twelve-month remission 
                  rates of up to 64% have been reported in ulcerative colitis 
                  patients with mild to moderate disease. Asacol 
                  is a delayed-release oral agent that is effective from the colon 
                  through the last section of the ileum. Studies have indicated 
                  that it has resulted in symptomatic improvement, including remission, 
                  in nearly three-quarters of patients with mild to moderate ulcerative 
                  colitis. In low doses, Asacol does not appear to be as effective 
                  as olsalazine for maintaining remission, although higher doses 
                  or combinations may improve its effectiveness. Three 
                  agents (Cleversal, Mesasal, Salofalk) are delayed released agents 
                  that are useful from the colon through the ileum. Corticosteroids General Guidelines. Corticosteroids (commonly called steroids ) are powerful 
              anti-inflammatory drugs. They are used only for active ulcerative 
              colitis. Steroids are frequently combined with other drugs to produce 
              more rapid symptom relief and to allow quicker withdrawal, although 
              such combinations do not improve remission time. Because they have 
              serious long-term effects, steroids are not useful for maintenance 
              therapy. Patients who are malnourished are less likely to respond 
              to steroids, and those who had an initial inadequate response to 
              steroids are also less likely to do well with repeat therapy. Corticosteroid Types. Prednisone, prednisolone, hydrocortisone, 
              and methylprednisolone are the most common corticosteroids. Some 
              physicians favor corticotropin (ACTH), which stimulates natural 
              production of steroids, but it is effective only in certain patients 
              and is not in common use. Newer steroids, such as budesonide, fluticasone, 
              beclomethasone, dipropionate, prednisolone-21-methasulphobenzoate, 
              and tixocortol affect only local areas in the intestine and do not 
              circulate throughout the body. Such drugs may avoid the widespread 
              side effects that are a serious problem with long-term treatment 
              using the older steroids. Administering Corticosteroids. Steroids can be taken orally, 
              intravenously, by injection, or rectally as a suppository, enema, 
              or foam. The form is often determined by the severity or location 
              of the condition. In general, 
                  oral preparations are used for moderate to severe ulcerative 
                  colitis. Enemas, 
                  suppositories, and, in limited cases, foam preparations may 
                  be used for mild to moderate ulcerative colitis located in the 
                  left section of the colon, the rectum, and anus. If the 
                  patient requires hospitalization, intravenous steroid therapy, 
                  with or without rectal steroids, are administered initially. 
                  (If these drugs are not effective after a week of intravenous 
                  therapy, they are not likely to work.) Once bowel movements 
              are normal and the patient can eat, oral doses replace intravenous 
              and rectal forms, and then they are tapered gradually. Side Effects of Corticosteroids. Standard steroids can have 
              distressing and sometimes serious long-term side effects. Adverse 
              effects include the following: Susceptibility 
                  to infection Weight 
                  gain (particularly increased fatty tissue on the face and upper 
                  trunk and back) Acne Excess 
                  hair growth Hypertension Accelerated 
                  osteoporosis Cataracts 
                  and glaucoma Diabetes, 
                  wasting of the muscles Menstrual 
                  irregularities Upper 
                  gastrointestinal ulcers, especially when patients also take 
                  NSAIDs Personality 
                  change, including irritability, insomnia, psychosis, and depression. 
                  Such emotional changes are sometimes severe enough to produce 
                  suicidal thoughts. Growth 
                  may be retarded in children. Treatments are 
              available for steroid-induced diabetes, swelling, and hypertension. 
              Vaccines are available to help prevent influenza and pneumonia. 
              Any infection should be treated promptly. Supplemental calcium and 
              vitamin D are important to help to preserve bone mass against osteoporosis. 
              The newer oral steroids, such as budesonide, have far fewer and 
              less severe side effects. Withdrawing from Corticosteroids. Once the intestinal inflammation 
              has subsided, steroids must be withdrawn very gradually in order 
              to give the body time to recover its own ability to produce natural 
              steroids. Withdrawal symptoms, including fever, malaise, and joint 
              pain may occur if the dosage is lowered too rapidly. If this happens, 
              the dosage is increased slightly and maintained until symptoms are 
              gone. More gradual withdrawal is then resumed. Immunosuppressive 
                Drugs For very active 
              inflammatory bowel disease that does not respond to standard treatments, 
              immunosuppressant drugs are now being used for long-term therapy. 
              Such drugs suppress actions of the immune system and therefore its 
              inflammatory response, which causes ulcerative colitis. Immunosuppressants 
              can prevent relapse, even when used alone, and in some studies have 
              proved to be effective for maintaining remissions in ulcerative 
              colitis that have lasted at least two years. The standard agents are purine analogues, especially azathioprine 
              and mercaptopurine. Other immunosuppressants being investigated 
              include methotrexate, cyclosporine, and mycophenolate. Methotrexate 
              is the least expensive of these drugs, but it also has the greatest 
              adverse effects on the liver and in pregnant women. Experts recommend 
              that they be used very cautiously in children, generally only if 
              they relapse after being treated with mesalazine agents and corticosteroids. Most of these agents can take up to 10 to 12 weeks to achieve peak 
              effectiveness. (They may work more rapidly for subsequent attacks). 
              Administering an immunosuppressant intravenously (called a loading 
              dose) may speed up the initial response. An immunosuppressant is often combined with a corticosteroid to 
              speed up response during active attacks. Lower doses of the steroid 
              are then needed, resulting in fewer side effects. Corticosteroids 
              may also be withdrawn more quickly. Immunosuppressants, then, are 
              sometimes referred to as steroid-sparing drugs. Purine Analogues. The two standard immunosuppressants are 
              azathioprine (Imuran) and mercaptopurine (Purinethol). They have 
              similar actions that impair the synthesis of purines and so prevent 
              cell proliferation. They are used for maintenance treatment in chronic 
              active ulcerative colitis to reduce dependency on steroids. Mercaptopurine. Mercaptopurine (Purinethol) is one of the drugs used for maintenance 
                  therapy, and a 2000 study suggested that it may have fewer adverse 
                  effects than its parent drug, azathioprine. Azathioprine. Azathioprine (Imuran) is a prodrug of mercaptopurine. (A prodrug 
                  is a compound that breaks down into the active agent.) Preliminary 
                  research indicates that intravenous (IV) "loading" doses of 
                  azathioprine can help patients with severe ulcerative colitis. 
                  In small 2000 studies, over half the patients who received the 
                  IV infusion followed by oral azathioprine were able to avoid 
                  the need for surgery. Normally one third of patients with similar 
                  symptoms require surgery at the time of hospitalization. Further 
                  research is needed. Mycophenolate. Mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept), also called MMF, is roughly 
                  equivalent in effectiveness and safety to the other agents, 
                  although not as effective in maintaining remission. The major side 
              effects of mercaptopurine and azathioprine are pancreatis, which 
              occurs in 3% to 15% of patients taking these drugs. It resolves 
              when the drugs are stopped. Cyclosporine. Initiating treatment with intravenous cyclosporine 
              followed by oral administration of the drug may also help patients 
              with acute severe ulcerative colitis. Studies indicate that up to 
              half of patients can avoid surgery for over four years. Serious 
              complications, some life threatening, can occur, however, in patients 
              with ulcerative colitis who have an unfavorable response to both 
              cyclosporine and corticosteroids. Long-term remission rates have 
              also been disappointing with this agent. Experts recommend that 
              cyclosporine be used only by ulcerative colitis patients who have 
              previously responded favorably to steroids and who can be closely 
              monitored by knowledgeable specialists. Tacrolimus. Tacrolimus is similar to cyclosporine, but its 
              oral form is better absorbed than oral cyclosporine. Early studies 
              on severe ulcerative colitis patients were promising, but 2001 results 
              have been disappointing. General Side Effects of Immunosuppressants. Although experts 
              have been concerned about dangerous side effects based on experience 
              with immunosuppressants used in transplant operations, the lower 
              doses of the drugs required for IBD and other inflammatory disorders 
              may make them safer for long-term treatments than steroids. Specific 
              side effects occur with individual drugs. The most common side effects of immunosuppressants include the following: Stomach 
                  and intestinal distress Rash Numbness 
                  or tingling in the hands and feet, mouth sores Hair loss 
                  (or excessive hair growth with cyclosporine) The actions of 
              immunosuppressants, however, have more serious effects: They inhibit certain rapidly growing immune system cells, including 
              those that produce antibodies, causing an increased risk for infections. Oversuppression 
                  of the immune system can result in low blood cell counts and 
                  anemia. Between 
                  3% and 15% of patients taking immunosuppressants develop pancreatitis, 
                  which is usually mild and resolves on withdrawal. In some cases 
                  patients may be able to resume the immunosuppressants. Symptoms 
                  of pancreatitis usually occur within the first few weeks and 
                  include nausea, vomiting, and upper abdominal pain that may 
                  radiate to the back. In pregnancy, 
                  the use of immunosuppressants by the mother is associated with 
                  birth defects such as cleft palate, limb deformities, and eye 
                  problems. Their use is generally not recommended for women during 
                  pregnancy or breastfeeding. Pregnant women should absolutely 
                  avoid methotrexate. Other 
                  serious adverse effects include hepatitis, bladder problems, 
                  and menstrual irregularity with possible sterility. (Administering 
                  pulsed doses at the time of menstruation may avert infertility 
                  in women.) Infliximab 
                and Other Biologic Response Modifiers Biologic response 
              modifiers are drugs that interfere with the inflammatory response. 
              Of special interest are drugs that are genetically engineered to 
              target the inflammatory immune factors known as cytokines, particularly 
              tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Infliximab. Infliximab (Remicade) is the first genetically-engineered 
              drug to be approved for Crohn's disease. It may also be helpful 
              for patients with ulcerative colitis, although studies are in early 
              stages. The drug is made from a specially developed antibody (termed 
              a monoclonal antibody ) called cA2, which acts against tumor 
              necrosis factor (TNF), a major player in the inflammatory process 
              that causes IBD. The most common side effects to date are headache, 
              abscess, upper respiratory tract infection, and fatigue. Some patients 
              have experienced high fever, joint swelling, and autoimmune reactions 
              to infliximab, although these effects are rare. Of concern were 
              reports of a few cases of lymphomas in people taking the drug, but 
              the cancers may have been caused by the underlying diseases, not 
              the drug itself. Other Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor Agents. Other anti-TNF 
              drugs are being investigated, including the following: CDP571. 
                  Like infliximab, CDP571 is an anti-TNF monoclonal antibody. Etanercept 
                  (Enbrel). Etanercept is known as a soluble TNF-receptor fusion 
                  protein. It binds to and blocks the actions of TNF. Thalidomide. 
                  Thalidomide can be an effective alternative for patients who 
                  can not tolerate infliximab. It can have serious adverse side 
                  effects, however, including birth defects in offspring of pregnant 
                  women who take this drug. Nicotine Studies are showing 
              that the nicotine patch helps to induce remission and reduce symptoms 
              in almost 40% of patients who use it for four weeks. Another study 
              found, however, that patches are not useful for maintaining remission. 
              Side effects, particularly in nonsmokers, include nausea, lightheadedness, 
              and headache. Investigators are studying methods of applying nicotine 
              directly into the colon. (No one should smoke for relief of ulcerative 
              colitis symptoms; the risks from cigarettes far outweigh the potential 
              benefits of their nicotine.) Investigative 
                Therapies A number of agents, 
              including alternative remedies, are being studied with some degree 
              of success. Progesterone. Medroxyprogesterone acetate (Colirest) is a 
              progesterone analog that resembles cortisol and has similar anti-inflammatory 
              properties as steroids, but causes fewer adverse side effects. Early 
              studies are reporting very promising response rates of about 65% 
              in ulcerative colitis patients. Probiotics and Lactobacilli. Live bacteria called lactobacilli 
              are known as probiotic agents, and include strains such as acidophilus, 
              which is found in yogurt and other fermented milk products. Acidophilus 
              can also be obtained in supplement form. Lactobacilli are so-called 
              good bacteria. They improve the absorption of milk proteins and 
              appear to have many benefits in the intestinal tract. Preliminary 
              evidence indicates a potential usefulness in treating IBD with live 
              cultures. Further research is necessary. Butyrate. Fatty acids such as butyrate have shown mixed results. 
              Although some studies have been disappointing, one 2000 study suggested 
              that oral butyrate increased the effectiveness of oral mesalazine 
              in ulcerative colitis. Some studies have suggested that certain 
              fibers, such as pectin, germinated barley, or Plantago ovata seeds, that produce butyrate may have beneficial properties. 
              In one 1999 study, an enema containing Plantago ovata seeds 
              was as effective as mesalamine in maintaining remission in UC patients, 
              but more research is needed to confirm this. Heparin. Intravenous heparin is an anti-blood clotting agent 
              that also has anti-inflammatory properties and may have benefits 
              for ulcerative colitis. Very small studies have reported improvements 
              in up to 90% of ulcerative colitis patients, and in one study, over 
              half of 13 patients achieved complete remission after four weeks. 
              One small 2000 study showed no benefit with standard (unfractionated) 
              heparin, however, and it caused significant bleeding complications. 
              Experts hope that other forms of heparin, notably low-molecular 
              weight heparin, may prove to be beneficial. Topical Anesthetics. Small studies indicate that enemas 
              using topical anesthetics lidocaine and ropivacaine may be helpful 
              for patients with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis. Hyperbaric Oxygen. Increasing oxygen in body tissues is 
              lethal to anaerobic bacteria (which are found in the colon), and 
              some studies indicated that hyperbaric oxygen (exposure to pure 
              oxygen at high pressure), also called HBOT, may help reduce inflammatory 
              injury in the colon. Anecdotal evidence suggests that HBOT may be 
              effective for a small number of patients with severe perianal Crohn's 
              disease who do not respond to other therapies. And a 2001 study 
              suggested it may be helpful for ulcerative colitis. It is very expensive 
              and time consuming, however, and can have adverse effects including 
              perforation of the eardrums and psychological difficulties. WHAT 
                ARE THE SURGICAL PROCEDURES FOR ULCERATIVE COLITIS? In 20% of ulcerative 
              colitis patients, drug therapy is not effective and surgery is necessary. 
              For a complete cure, a procedure called proctocolectomy is 
              performed in which the entire colon and rectum are removed. It can 
              cure ulcerative colitis, but is still a last resort. Still, studies 
              on effects of surgery have reported it improved the quality of life 
              in most patients. Some experts are urging, in fact, that many patients 
              should consider intestinal surgery in the early stages of the disease. Surgeries may also be required because of hemorrhage, chronic illness, 
              perforation of the colon, or to prevent colon cancer. Proctocolectomy 
                and Ileostomy. Proctocolectomy 
              with ileostomy is removal of the entire colon and creation of an ileostomy . It involves the following: To perform proctocolectomy , the surgeon removes the entire colon, 
                  including lower part of the rectum and the sphincter muscles 
                  that control bowel movements. To perform ileostomy , the surgeon makes a small opening in the lower 
                  right corner of the abdomen called a stoma . The surgeon 
                  then connects cut ends of the small intestine to this opening. 
                  A bag is placed over the opening and accumulates waste matter. 
                  It requires emptying several times a day. Restorative 
                Proctocolectomy with Ileal Pouch-Anal Anastomosis (IPAA) Restorative proctocolectomy 
              with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) have now largely replaced 
              proctocolectomy and ileostomy. IPAAs create natural pouches to collect 
              waste, rather than using an ileostomy bag. Patient satisfaction 
              is high with these operations. In one study, almost three quarters 
              reported complete satisfaction and about 85% said they were in perfect 
              health. The procedures must be performed only on patients in whom 
              it is absolutely clear that ulcerative colitis, and not Crohn's 
              disease, is causing the IBD. Discovering underlying Crohn's disease 
              or other problems during the procedure can increase the risk for 
              complications. Ileoanal Anastomosis. The standard procedure is known as 
              ileoanal anastomosis: The colon 
                  is removed as in proctocolectomy but the surgeon only strips 
                  the superficial diseased inner layer of the rectum, leaving 
                  the sphincter muscles intact. The anus 
                  is then attached to the ileum (the final portion of the small 
                  intestine leading to the colon). A pouch 
                  is constructed out of the small bowel above the anus. Pouches 
                  are usually J- S- or W-shaped. One study suggested that the 
                  W shape may produce better long-term results than the more standard 
                  J shape. A temporary 
                  ileostomy is usually required, which is closed in a second operation 
                  three months later. In about 5% to 
              10% of cases, complications occur that are severe enough to require 
              conversion to an ileostomy. Continent 
                Ileostomy Continent ileostomy 
              is a pouch procedure that may be used for patients whose rectal 
              muscles are not strong enough for ileoanal anastomosis or who have 
              already had an ileostomy and want a more convenient arrangement: The surgeon 
                  forms a natural pouch for collecting waste from the last few 
                  inches of the ileum. A nipple-like 
                  valve is created in the abdominal wall through which a tube 
                  is inserted to drain waste material from the pouch. (In nearly 
                  20% of procedures, the valve malfunctions and needs to be repaired, 
                  but only 5% of patients need to convert to a conventional ileostomy 
                  because of this problem.) At first 
                  the pouch is drained eight to ten times a day, but eventually 
                  it needs to be emptied only about half as many times. Until 
                  recently, the procedure was generally done in two stages, with 
                  an ileostomy bag worn for several months before the pouch is 
                  made. Advances, however, have allowed surgeons to complete the 
                  procedure in one operation unless the patient is very ill. The pouch 
                  is able to collect waste material, and the patient can pass 
                  bowel movements normally through the anus, although they may 
                  be watery and more frequent. Complications 
                from Intestinal Procedures Complications 
              are common with any of intestinal operation. Inflammation 
                  of the pouch (pouchitis) is the most common complication of 
                  the pouch procedures, and one study reported its occurrence 
                  in over 40% of patients. It can usually be treated easily, however. 
                  According to one study about 4.5% of patients developed chronic 
                  pouchitis, which causes increased defecation and requires long-term 
                  medication. Severe 
                  scarring at the incision occurs in more than half of patients. 
                  One study found that placing an experimental absorbable membrane 
                  made from hyaluronate (a natural lubricating substance) along 
                  the incision reduced the rate of scarring up to 15%. When the 
                  rectum is removed, there is a small danger of injury to the 
                  nerves that control erection and bladder function. Small 
                  bowel obstructive may occur with some of the procedures. If 
                  this occurs in pouch procedures, the pouch may need to be removed. Pelvic 
                  infection occurs in less than ten percent of pouch procedures 
                  (more often after hand-sewn than stapled anastomoses), and it 
                  occurs almost four times more often in men than in women. It 
                  is also more common in ulcerative colitis patients who also 
                  have toxic megacolon. Valve 
                  leakage may occur or the catheter may become blocked in continent 
                  ileostomies; in at least 10% of these procedures, the valve 
                  needs to be repaired later on. Appendectomy Some studies 
              have also reported that appendectomy (removal of the appendix) protects 
              against ulcerative colitis, and one 2001 study even suggested that 
              removing the appendix may help prevent UC recurrence. Some experts 
              theorize that removing the appendix alters the T-cell balance in 
              the immune system that then works in favor of UC patients. A major 
              2001 study suggested, however, that specific inflammatory conditions 
              leading to appendicitis were the protective factors--and only in 
              people under 20. WHERE 
                ELSE CAN HELP BE FOUND FOR ULCERATIVE COLITIS? Crohn's & 
              Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., 386 Park Avenue South. 17th 
              Floor, New York, NY 10016-8804. Call (800-932-2423) or (212-685-3440)or 
              on the Internet ( http://www.ccfa.org/ ) Primary site for information on IBD. Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of Canada; 60 St. Clair Avenue East, 
              Suite 600, Toronto, Ontario M4T 1N5 Call: (416) 920-5035, or (800) 
              387-1479. On the internet ( http://www.ccfc.ca/ ) National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse, Office of 
              Communications and Public Liaison, NIDDK, NIH, Building 31, Room 
              9A04, 31 Center Drive, MSC 2560, Bethesda, MD 20892-2560. On the 
              Internet ( http://www.niddk.nih.gov/ ) Offers patient information and educational materials. American Gastroenterological Association, American Digestive Health 
              Foundation, 7910 Woodmont Avenue, 7th Floor, Bethesda, MD 20814. 
              Call (301 654-2055)or on the Internet ( http://www.gastro.org ) American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, 13 Elm Street, 
              Manchester, MA 01944-1314 Call (978-526-8330) or on the Internet 
              ( http://www.asge.org/ ) American College of Gastroenterology, 4900 B South 31 St., Arlington, 
              VA 22206. Call (703-820-7400) or on the Internet ( http://www.acg.gi.org/ ) For information on organ transplantation, United Network for Organ 
              Sharing (http://www.unos.org/) At this time, the University of Pittsburgh 
              Medical Center has performed the most small-bowel transplantations. VIEWER RELATIONS About Us | Contact Us | Write For Us | Advertise | Services | Media Inquires | Terms and Conditions | Copyright Policy | Privacy Statement STAY CONNECTED Newsletter | RSS | FaceBook | Twitter | YouTube | Buzz | Bloggers | Volunteer | Donate This site is owned and operated by PreventDisease.com  2011. All Rights Reserved. All content on this site may be copied, without permission, whether reproduced digitally or in print, provided copyright, reference and source information are intact and use is strictly for not-for-profit purposes.  Please review our copyright policy for ful