
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 08:34:06 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy | Smoking Hypnosis | London Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Home » Hypnotherapy » Stop Smoking Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy At Therapy Lounge, we use a unique combination of Advanced Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy , the principles of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and Neuro Linguistic Programming (NLP) to help you become and all importantly remain a happy, healthy, confident non-smoker. Our confidence is helping you to stop smoking is reflected in our industry leading 12 months guarantee . Evidence proves that the vast majority of smokers who stop smoking for more than one year, will never smoke again. So included within the cost, we provide a 12 month guarantee during which, if you have any smoking related issues, we will see again (and if necessary again and again and.....!) on a strictly free of charge basis. The reason why we're so successful at helping clients to permanently stop smoking is because we simultaneously retrain both the conscious (CBT) and the unconscious (stop smoking hypnosis) parts of your mind. And as a result, all those old self-limiting beliefs about smoking; like how smoking helps you relax or feel somehow better; and how you enjoy the actual experience of smoking; or how you smoke because you're addicted to nicotine; or how it's going to be really hard to quit; all these self limiting beliefs will easily and comfortably become a thing of the past. We'll also replace those old habitual smoking behaviours with far more natural and healthy strategies to help you feel mentally calmer, physically more relaxed and altogether more confident. So as a result, the all too familiar withdrawal pangs of irritability, mood swings and cravings, the primary reasons why people fail to permanently stop smoking, are replaced with feelings of mental calmness, physical relaxation, improved self-confidence, increased energy and vitality and an overall sense of wellbeing. So what if it really is that simple? What if after just one two-hour stop smoking session at The Therapy Lounge, that thing you thought was going to be so difficult, turned out to be so very easy? What if all your beliefs about how hard it's going to be to quit smoking are completely false? What if tomorrow you really can become a happy, healthy non-smoker? Our two hour smoking cessation therapy costs £350 and comes with our industry busting 12 month guarantee. We have three Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Practices in London, so if you would like to stop smoking now, or you saimply want to talk wiht one of our smoking cessation specialists, call The Therapy Lounge on 020 7485 5745 or click here to arrange an appointment. Please feel free to read our lastest research on Nicotine Replacement Therapy: Research into the Smoking Cessation Conspiracy . Book your appointment Want to have a chat? Contact us Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Hypnotherapy News 10/01/2012 NRT 'not effective' for smoking cessation, research finds A new study has discovered that Nicotine Replacement Therapies (NRT) are not effective long-term smoking cessation methods, The Telegraph reports.
The products, which in... 05/01/2012 Smoking's financial impact underestimated Figures from the Department of Health suggest that half of all smokers understand the financial impact of smoking, reports The Telegraph.
As well as the obvious negative... Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Testimonials ".....I can't understand how I ever found the time to smoke 50 cigarettes a day....." Quick Enquiry Name * Contact number * Email * Treatment No preference Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Office No preference Charing Cross The City Westminster Canary Wharf Harley Street North West London East Dulwich Borehamwood Hemel Hempstead Office No Preference * mandatory fields Accreditation This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2