Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Isotonic Drinks-Herbalife H3O Pro Isotonic Drink Herbalife H3O Pro™ Isotonic Drink For 
							exceptional performance - demand more from your sports 
							drink Top athletes push their body 
					to the limit to deliver an exceptional performance. How do they 
					do it? Two crucial factors aid an exceptional performance: energy and hydration . Whatever your 
					sport , whether you are a keen team player in a sport 
					like football or hockey, a fan of challenging endurance activities 
					such as marathons or triathlons, a fitness enthusiast who enjoys 
					activities such as gym sessions, or a game of tennis - hydration and energy are vital in achieving results 
					to be proud of. As little as 2% fluid 
					loss during exercise or mild dehydration can significantly harm 
					your performance. For an exceptional performance, water 
					alone is not enough. Developed with experts in sports nutrition , 
				H3O Pro™ is an innovative isotonic drink helping to power exceptional 
				performances. As we demand more from our bodies during exercise, 
				it's vital that we support our body and provide what it needs. That's 
				why you get so much more from H3O Pro™ isotonic drinks than other 
				brands on the market. Key Benefits of H3O Pro™ How It Works Hydration Sweating during exercise causes loss 
						of essential electrolytes (or salts) such as sodium as well 
						as potassium, calcium, magnesium and chloride. replacing 
						the electrolytes can aid rapid hydration 
						and help you avoid the negative effects of dehydration such 
						as muscle cramps, fatigue and headaches. Energy and Stamina Energising carbohydrates
						provide your body with immediate and sustained 
						energy to prevent unwanted performance dips - keeping 
						you at the top of your game! Absorption Energy releasing B-vitamins 
						help improve absorption of essential nutrients 
						which means that your body can react faster to the nutrients 
						provided in H3O Pro™ helping to power your performance. Protection Oxygen production during exercise increases 
						free radical production which can cause damage to the body's 
						cells. Key antioxidants vitamins C & E 
						and mixed tocopherals help protect the body's tissues against 
						the potentially damaging effects of free radicals. Do you wake up with leg cramps? You need 
				to replenish sodium, postassium and magnesium. Magnesium reduces 
				cramping and helps the muscle tissue to relax and perform better 
				and then you dont fatigue as much. Usage Information The best time to enjoy Herbalife H3O Pro™ Isotonic 
				Drink is during your workout to keep you hydrated whilst providing 
				a supply of energy, electrolytes and antioxidants to help power 
				an exceptional performance. However H3O Pro™ can also help you stay hydrated and energised before your workout. Pour 
				contents of one sachet into a water bottle and add water to produce 
				500ml of H3O Pro™; one serving of H3O Pro™ in 500ml is recommended 
				for every hour of strenuous exercise. Additional Information: For exceptional performance 
				water alone is not enough H3O Pro™ Isotonic 
				Drink- backed by science Question and 
				Answers and Ingredients H3O Pro™ 
						Isotonic Drink - Lemon 
						Lime - Code 2646 - 10 sachets per box For prices and ordering please sign into the members website H3O 
						Pro™ Sports Bottle - View shopping cart Checkout Herbalife Isotonic 
					Sports Drinks Isotonic Drinks Water is not enough Why H30 Pro? Question and Answer Success Stories Herbal Vitality Home Members Web Site Distributors Wanted Order Online Select Country View Shopping Cart Checkout Herbal Vita