
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 17:17:11 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding
X-UA-Compatible: IE=EmulateIE8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Summit Medical Group - Dementia Searching . . . We Recommend Doctors and Practitioners Specialties & Services Live Well Library Other Results See more search results Follow us on: We are here to help: 908-273-4300 Home Services Practitioners Live Well Library My Summit Medical Group E-mail Page Digg Reddit LinkedIn Facebook Delicious StumbleUpon Twitter Live Well Library > Senior Health Advisor > Dementia Dementia What is dementia? Dementia is a gradual loss of mental functions such as the ability 
to think, remember, reason, and plan. Dementia is not a disease, 
but a group of symptoms. As the problem gets worse, a person with 
dementia is no longer able to do everyday tasks. Their behavior 
and personality also change. Dementia is not a normal part of aging. In normal aging memory 
loss is slow, not sudden. As they age, people may forget names, 
phone numbers, or where objects are. People with dementia also 
have problems with problem-solving and thinking things through. Contact your healthcare provider if you are unsure whether 
symptoms are due to normal aging or to another cause. How does it occur? Damaged brain cells cause the symptoms of dementia. These cells 
can no longer store or work with information in the normal way. 
The most common cause of dementia is Alzheimer's disease. Strokes, 
sometimes in the form of many small strokes you may not be aware 
of having, also can cause dementia. Other conditions that can 
cause dementia include: Huntington's disease multiple sclerosis vascular disease Pick's Disease Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease Parkinson's disease Lewy body disease (a disorder similar to Alzheimer's) alcoholism or drug abuse AIDS. As the disease causing the dementia gets worse, more brain 
functions are lost. What are the symptoms? Many symptoms are possible. At the beginning of dementia, symptoms 
may be mild. However, as time passes, people may have more of the 
following symptoms: memory problems (trouble remembering recent events or trouble 
remembering people, places, times, and dates) poor judgment and not being able to understand the results of 
their actions decline in thinking ability (for example, not being able to 
figure out the correct order in which to put clothing on) trouble following instructions or staying with a task, causing 
problems paying bills, fixing meals, shopping, or taking 
medicines lack of emotions, such as a lack of interest in what is going 
on around them, less participation in activities previously 
enjoyed, or withdrawal from other people loss of interest in food and less concern about looking neat 
and being clean irritability and a tendency to overreact wandering away from home or getting lost believing that someone is taking money or belongings or that 
family members are not who they say they are. As the disease gets worse, it causes problems with control of the 
body. The person may: be unable to control their bowel or bladder be unsteady while walking, leading to falls and the eventual 
inability to walk forget how to eat or have trouble chewing and swallowing have a hard time speaking and thinking of the right words and 
eventually become unable to speak. How is it diagnosed? Family members or friends need to tell the healthcare provider how 
long the person has had symptoms and whether the symptoms started 
suddenly or came on gradually. The provider will do a physical exam to find out whether the 
person has had a stroke or has another condition that could cause 
the symptoms. The provider will ask about symptoms and any drug or 
alcohol use. The following tests also may be done: blood tests brain wave tracing (EEG, or electroencephalogram) heart wave tracing (EKG, or electrocardiogram) CT scan MRI tests to check how well the person can concentrate, remember, 
understand, and make decisions. How is it treated? There is no cure for most causes of dementia. A few medical 
conditions, such as encephalitis (a viral infection in the brain), 
cause symptoms of dementia that can be reversed with treatment. Medicine may help. Donepezil (Aricept), galantamine (Razadyne), 
and rivastigmine (Exelon) are drugs that may slow memory loss 
early in the disease. Memantine (Namenda) may help slow memory 
loss in later stages of the disease. None of these medicines can 
cure or reverse Alzheimer's disease. You should not expect big 
improvements when these medicines are given. Not all people with 
dementia should take these medicines. Those whose disease is very 
severe will not benefit. Talk to your healthcare provider about 
these issues. Other medicines continue to be studied to see 
whether they might be helpful. How long do the effects last? Most dementias do not get better and do get worse over time. Your 
healthcare provider can explain more about what to expect. What can a family member or friend do? The most important thing is to understand that a person with 
dementia is not responsible for his or her behavior. It occurs 
because of damage to brain cells. A person with dementia may say 
or do hurtful things that family and friends must overlook. It can be hard to know how to care for someone with dementia. They 
may need care 24 hours a day. A big part of treatment is making 
sure the person is safe and well cared for. Keep these things in 
mind: Give the person choices when you can. Decide what kind of care they need and who will give them 
care. Make sure you know what kind of care they are getting. See that anyone caring for them treats them with respect. Written by Carolyn Norrgard, RNC, BA, MEd; Carol Matheis-Kraft, PhD, RNC; and Sally Rigler, MD, for RelayHealth. Published by RelayHealth. © 2009 RelayHealth and/or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. You Might Also Like Alzheimer's Disease Difficult Behaviors Associated with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) Caring for Someone with Alzheimer's Disease Confusion Live Well Libraries Adult Health Advisor Behavioral Health Advisor Cardiology Advisor Eye Advisor Medication Advisor Pediatric Advisor Senior Health Advisor Sports Medicine Advisor Women's Health Advisor © Summit Medical Group 2011 | urgent care | bill payments | insurance | m