<http://www.signs-of-hypoglycemia.com/?p=578>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cinnamon capsules to help manage blood sugar in those with type 2? | Signs Of Hypoglycemia Signs Of Hypoglycemia Signs Of Hypoglycemia Cinnamon capsules to help manage blood sugar in those with type 2? Question by jannsody : Cinnamon capsules to help manage blood sugar in those with type 2? Anyone take cinnamon caps, and does it help lower the blood sugar?  And how about preventing type 2 diabetes in the first place (my father has type I — insulin dependent).  Thank you! Thank you for your input about cinnamon not showing much benefit, if any, for those with type 1 diabetes.  (My father actually mentioned that to me awhile ago I was mainly wondering about trying to prevent type 2 diabetes and the cinnamon.  I’m actually not sure if the cinn caps were causing my breathing problems to worsen (I also have anxiety), but I have stopped taking it anyway.  The cinn caps that I started taking had cinnamon bark in it as well as cinnamon ‘water-extract’ (‘bark’).  I’m wondering about alpha lipoic acid caps as well. Best answer: Answer by John S Well there a remedy that helps as long as you take it. ALl you have to do is get some corn silk and let it soak in water over night then strain water and drink it twice a day. This will help alot. ALso there are stores that sell corn silk. OK Just get about 3 ears of corn with the silk and take it off if the ends are dark cut them off. and put in about a quart of water and let soak over night. On the next day strina and drink the water twice a day. Add your own answer in the comments! Category: Uncategorized Tag: blood , capsules , cinnamon , Help , manage , sugar , those , type March 23rd, 2012 4 comments admin 4 Responses Jay W says: There is no reliable evidence that cinnamon has any effect in people who already have diabetes.  There is some unreliable evidence that it lowers blood sugar in some people, but whether this helps prevent diabetes (or makes you more healthy at all) is doubtful. If your father has type 1 diabetes (young age, normal weight, always been insulin dependent) you will not get it from him.  Type 1 is not hereditary and is not a risk factor for type 2 diabetes.  If your father has insulin dependent type 2 diabetes (older age, overweight, originally on oral medication), then this IS a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. As always, discuss these and any questions with your doctor. March 23, 2012 at 1:08 pm Reply thesecretisfaithworks4u2 says: The best thing to do would be to check with your local American Diabetes Association or an Endocrinologist. March 23, 2012 at 1:13 pm Reply Autumn says: “Cinnamon does not aid Type 1 diabetes control Despite earlier promising findings, it seems unlikely that cinnamon can improve blood sugar levels in people with type 1, or insulin-dependent, diabetes, researchers report.” March 23, 2012 at 1:54 pm Reply merrybodner says: Neither cinnamon nor any other caps seem to affect blood sugar. Talk to your doctor. March 23, 2012 at 2:43 pm Reply Leave a Comment or Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011