
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
WN: IIS16
P3P: CP="CAO ADMa DEVa TAIa CONi OUR OTRi IND PHY ONL UNI COM NAV INT DEM PRE"
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
wn_vars: CACHE_DB
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
ntCoent-Length: 56175
Cache-Control: private, max-age=292
Expires: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 18:47:22 GMT
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 18:42:30 GMT
Connection: close

All natural flu and cold soothers - WSFA.com: News Weather and Sports for Montgomery, AL. WSFA.com: News Weather and Sports for Montgomery, AL.All natural flu and cold soothers SITE SEARCH WEB SEARCH BY More news Food Write it Down! Text/Email Alerts Entertainment Editorials WSFA 12 News Jobs Sunbelt Ag News Slideshows Consumer Video More news Education Inside Ala's Legislature Decision 2012 Cash for Kindness Does it Work? CrimeStoppers County Road 12 Making a Difference Severe Weather Satellite/Radar Loop Maps Alabama SAF-T-Net Text/Email Alerts Video Doppler 12 StormVision ALFA SkyVision Cams Personal Forecast Sports Event Webcasts Tide and Tigers Today Text/Email Alerts Video Alabama Sports Headlines Baseball Auto Racing Football College Sports News Basketball Cancer Center Alzheimer's  Center The Nutrition Corner Health Tips HEALTH CONNECTIONS Cholesterol Center Exercise & Weight Loss Diabetes Center Combat allergies. Main Tax Guide Mother's Day Entertainment Money Home/Family Health Food Pets Tech Travel Beauty & Style Auto VideoBytes Press Releases Syndication What's On TV America Now Find Bounce TV (12.2) on cable or satellite NBC Programming Education Sunbelt Ag News Alabama Live! Obituaries Meet the News Team Email Us History of WSFA-TV Advertise on WSFA.com WSFA 12 News Jobs Editorials FAQs Member Center Frequently Asked Questions Email Share | Print All natural flu and cold soothers © Hemera/Thinkstock More from easyGREENtv More>> How to make eco-friendly Easter baskets How to make eco-friendly Easter baskets Easter baskets are the perfect way to celebrate the arrival of spring, but if you're not careful, your cute little bunny bin could be anything but a friend to the environment. More >> All natural flu and cold soothers All natural flu and cold soothers Just about everyone seems to be carrying around cough drops and tissues these days. Here are a few homemade remedies that can help you soothe that cough. More >> Eco-friendly Christmas cleanup Eco-friendly Christmas cleanup The Christmas cleanup is never fun, but it can be easy and green!  Here are some tips that will help you find new purposes for things you probably considered tossing in the garbage! More >> Light the holidays with LEDs Light the holidays with LEDs Take a stroll in your neighborhood and the eco-friendly glow is clear and bright. LEDs are adding quite a modern flair to traditional front yard displays. More >> Eco-friendly holiday wrap Eco-friendly holiday wrap Your household produces about 25 percent more waste during the holiday season. Here are some tips that will help you reuse, remix and reinvent your holiday wrap. More >> By Scott Meeks easy GREEN tv.com If you're not suffering from a sore throat right now, I bet you know someone who is.  Probably a few people at work, your kids – just about everyone seems to be carrying around cough drops and tissues these days. Well instead of turning to your medicine chest, try a few HOMEMADE remedies first.  They won't make you loopy like that over-the-counter stuff.  And they're easier on your body and the environment. Remember, these are all concoctions that are meant to SOOTHE your symptoms.  If you have a severe cold or flu, you should always head to the doctor! NON-LOOPY LEMON COUGH SYRUP Ingredients 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 tablespoons honey Mix together the lemon juice and honey.  Zap it in the microwave for 10 seconds to loosen it up a little. The honey coats your throat to ease the cough while the lemon gives you a little bump of vitamin C. COLD & FLU BREW (for that pesky sore throat) Ingredients 2 cups water 2 thick slices of lemon 2 slices of ginger root 2 chamomile tea bags 1 squirt of honey Simmer water, lemon and ginger root for about 10 minutes. Strain out the lemon and ginger and add 2 chamomile tea bags. Let the bags steep in the water for 5-10 minutes. Add a little honey and drink up! Ginger has anti-viral compounds.  Chamomile is an immune booster and will help you sleep. SPICY GARLIC GULP Ingredients ¼ lemon cut into chunks 2 slices of ginger 1 garlic clove peeled 1 squirt of honey Pinch of red pepper flakes 8 ounces boiling water Add all ingredients to a coffee mug and let it steep for 5 minutes.  Drink up and your sinuses will be clear in no time! *DISCLAIMER* : The information contained in or provided through this site section is intended for general consumer understanding and education only and is not intended to be and is not a substitute for professional advice.  Use of this site section and any information contained on or provided through this site section is at your own risk and any information contained on or provided through this site section is provided on an "as is" basis without any representations or warranties. Explore WSFA.com Home Write it Down! What’s On TV Entertainment Editorials Education Food WSFA 12 News Jobs America Now Sunbelt Ag News News Today In Alabama Alabama Live! Inside Ala.’s Legislature Consumer Politics / Government CrimeStoppers Weather Severe Weather Satellite / Radar Loop Maps Airport Delays Maps Weather Headlines Doppler 12 StormVision Interactive Radar ALFA SkyVision Cams Sports Sports Event Webcasts Alabama Sports Headlines Baseball Other Sports Football NBCSports.com NBA/WNBA Video Video About Us Meet the News Team Email Us History of WSFA-TV EEO Report Advertise on WSFA All content © Copyright 2000 - 2012 WorldNow and WSFA, a Raycom Media Station . All Rights Reserved. For more information on this