
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8k PHP/5.3.10
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 19:36:21 GMT
Connection: close

Comfort Aire Dehumidifiers | AllergyBuyersClub View Cart | Checkout Store Hours | Order Status I Need Relief From Select Allergies Asthma Bed Bugs Chemicals Dust Mites Humidity Mold & Mildew Pet Dander Pollen Sinuses Shop By Brand Select Air O Swiss Humidifiers Airfree Air Sterilizers Airpura Air Purifiers Alen Air Purifiers Austin Air Purifiers Blueair Air Purifiers Crane Humidifiers Danby Dehumidifiers Delonghi Dehumidifiers Dyson Vacuums Electrolux Vacuum Cleaners Friedrich Dehumidifiers Frigidaire Dehumidifiers IQAir Air Purifiers Ladybug Steam Cleaners Miele Vacuum Cleaners Plasmawave Air Purifiers Santa Fe Dehumidifiers Sebo Vacuum Cleaners Winix Dehumidifiers Whirlpool Air Purifiers All Brands Air Purifiers | Asthma | Bedding | Dehumidifiers | EMF | Furniture | Humidifiers | Lighting | Sinus Care | Steam Cleaners | Vacuum Cleaners | Water Filters | CATALOG Dehumidifiers by Use Home Dehumidifiers Basement Dehumidifiers Dehumidifiers with Pump Bedroom & Quiet Dehumidifiers Crawl Space Dehumidifiers Mold Dehumidifiers Commercial Dehumidifiers Whole House Dehumidifiers Flood Dehumidifiers Indoor Pool Dehumidifiers Small & Portable Dehumidifiers Desiccant Dehumidifiers Dehumidifier Accessories Comparisons Compare Dehumidifiers Reviews Dehumidifier Reviews ON SALE GIFTS New Products Top Categories Air Purifiers Bedding Dehumidifiers Dust Mite Covers Humidifiers Replacement Filters Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters All Categories Air Conditioners Air Purifiers Asthma Treatment Bath Bedding Bed Bug Covers Dust Mite Covers Carpet Cleaners Cleaning Cleaning Supplies Clothing Dehumidifiers Dental Health EMF Shields Fans Floor Cleaners Furnace Filters Furniture Health & Beauty Home Decor Humidifiers Mattresses Natural Lighting Nutrition Supplements Pet Allergy Control Replacement Filters Saunas Sinus Care Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Test Kits UV Sanitization Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters Clearance Center Learning Center Customer Service FAQ Order Catalog Order Status Returns Shipping Policy Programs Affiliates Medical Reimbursement Patient Literature Press / Media Comfort Aire Dehumidifiers Dehumidifiers are essential for anyone who wants to prevent mold spores from growing in their home or basement. If you keep the humidity low, dust mites cannot survive. Some Comfort Aire dehumidifiers have a low temperature feature, especially useful for moisture removal in mildew, odor filled basements. Comfort Aire dehumidifiers just keep going and going, sucking out water from your air at a fast clip while being energy misers. Put on an auxiliary pump, so you can just set and forget. These smart dehumidifiers even turn themselves back on to the preset levels after a power outage! If you want more options, see our complete selection of dehumidifiers . Comfort-Aire Dehumidifier Sale – Save $20! Fast Free Shipping! Why we Like Comfort Aire Dehumidifiers We recommend the BHD-501-G Comfort Aire dehumidifiers, for people who need reliable, cost effective, humidity control in areas up to 1000 sq. ft., and operation down to 41°F for basement dehumidification. These dehumidifiers also offer accurate touchpad controls with digital humidity display - an appreciated extra not always found on dehumidifiers in this lower price range. Furthermore, the auto restart feature guarantees your settings will be saved and the unit will start back up after any power outage. To insure your purchase arrives in excellent condition we have added foam support inserts and an outer box to the standard packaging from the manufacturer. Pluses of Comfortaire Dehumidifiers 1. Low temperature operation: Comfort Aire dehumidifiers operate down to 41°F, great convenience for basements. 2. Auto restart useful through power outages: Particularly useful for those away from home often or vacation homes, because these dehumidifiers will automatically re-start themselves at the original settings once the power is restored. 3. Energy efficient: The Comfort Aire dehumidifiers received an Energy Star rating, and it is always a big plus to save on electricity. 4. Set and forget humidity control with digital display: The digitally adjustable humidistat allows the operator to set the humidity level to a desired setting at 5% increments from 35% to 85% relative humidity. The intuitive controls are clearly readable on the top of the dehumidifier, and digital readouts give the room humidity and in addition the humidity level at which the adjustable humidistat has been set. The internal humidistat maintains humidity level in a room automatically to desired setting by cycling the dehumidifier on and off as needed. 5. Easy drainage options: 1. Water bucket with auto-shut off: uses a lever system to shut the machine off when the bucket is filled rather than the "float on a wire" system that tends to jam occasionally in some other dehumidifiers. When the bucket has filled, the unit will shut off automatically and let you know by a warning light on the top. 2. Automatic, easy to use gravity drain or pump: For those who want to constantly drain the water by use of gravity or a pump, Comfort Aire dehumidifiers are  ideal because the drain connection does not attach to a hole in the bottom of the bucket, but has a drain connection above the bucket. Included is a 1 foot plastic tube that gets pushed onto this drain connection, then  you can run the tube out the back corner of the cabinet, and attach a hose to the threaded end of the tube, and never worry about emptying the bucket. 6. Easy access, large front loading bucket: water removal buckets hold 21 pints, and are more convenient in front; easy grip handle is on bucket for emptying water, and slides in and out of dehumidifier easily. 7. Portable: Comfort Aire dehumidifiers roll easily on 4 casters, and can be lifted using the sturdy built-in hand grips. 8. Fast drying fan speeds: Both fan speeds (high and low) produce a higher volume of air than most other dehumidifiers and so will dry rooms more quickly. Minuses: 1. Included continuous drainage tube can be awkward to insert into the continuous drainage hole. 2. Comfort Aire dehumidifiers need at least 12" of space all around the unit for the manufacturer's specified operation. Learn more about Dehumidifiers Articles: Home Dehumidifiers - A complete selection of models that are perfect for your home or basement. Commercial and Industrial Dehumidifiers - Our selection of commercial and industrial dehumidifier models for serious dehumidification. How to Choose a Dehumidifier Questionnaire - To choose the right dehumidifier for your personal needs, these questions should be answered. Product Comparisons: Compare Comfort Aire Dehumidifiers - Comfort Aire Dehumidifier Comparison - Compare features and benefits of all Comfort Aire dehumidifiers on AllergyBuyersClub Product Listings: Comfort Aire Dehumidifier Reviews - Comfort Aire Dehumidifier reviews by expert reviewers and ratings to help you choose the best Comfort Aire dehumidifier for dehumidification where you need it. Click here for BBB Business Review © 1998-2012 AllergyBuyersClub.com - A Division of Boston Green Goods Inc. All Rights Reserved. Information presented at AllergyBuyersClub.com is developed by the AllergyBuyersClub Staff+ and is for educational
            purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Use of this online service is subject
            to the disclaimer and the terms
              and conditions . *Free shipping on all orders over $150 for the 48 contiguous states. Excludes some heavyweight items as noted on specific product pages. Contact
            Us - About
            Us - Privacy
            Policy - Shipping - Customer Service - Affiliate Progra