
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 23:24:13 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.20 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.20 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.ashen-eye.com/xmlrpc.php
ETag: "46666a518d58d55cc8b4274f7caf62bc"
Last-Modified: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 23:24:21 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2012  January  21 | ashen-eye.com ashen-eye.com Page Contact Privacy Policy Categories Acting Advertising Alternative Medicine Arts & Entertainment Babies Beauty Beer & Wine Books Business & Finance Careers Cars Celebrities Clothing College Comedy Computers Cooking Crafts Cruises Dating Debt Consolidation Destinations Education Electronics Exercise Extreme Food & Beverage Furniture Gadgets Gardening General Hair Loss Health & Well-Being Hobbies Holidays Home & Family Home Improvement Home Security Home-Based Business Humor Individual Sports Insurance Interior Design Internet Marketing Investing Jewelry Language Loans/Mortgages Marketing Medicine Motorcycles Movies Muscle Building Music News Nutrition Other Other Business Other Health Other Shopping Parenting Personal Finance Pets Photography Programming Real Estate Recipes Religion Restaurants RVs Sales Senior Living Shopping Society Software Sports & Recreation Supplements Team Sports Technology Toys Travel & Leisure Travel Tips Trucks/SUVs Vacations Vehicles Website Design Weddings Weight Loss Writing Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 Why Longevity is an Important Factor when Choosing Raccoon Repellent Filed under Gardening by admin Trying to choose between different types of raccoon repellent can be a tough task to undertake. You’re bound to read many customer reviews to see what people have to say about their experiences with the products, and this influx of information can only confuse you more in many cases. While we can’t cover every single aspect you need to consider when choosing a repellent, we can tell you that one thing you should watch out for is how long the repellents last. Some products – usually those that come in spray or granule form – will remain potent longer than others as they are exposed to elements such as rain or snow. Be sure to read the product descriptions thoroughly to see how long the products are supposed to last. Electronic products such as motion detector sprinklers and ultrasonic raccoon repellents are one option that lasts longer, since they are battery operated and only need occasional battery changes. raccoon repellent January 21, 2012 at 9:47 pm Comments (0) Protecting Your Portable Device’s Screen Filed under Gadgets by admin Most new portable devices have large and attractive screens capable of displaying high definition images. This makes them a crucial component to the device. However, since the device is meant to be portable, the screen may often sit inside one’s pocket, and rub up against hard keys that can scratch or break the screen. A solution to this problem is to use screen protectors. Screen protectors fit over a screen and take the brunt of the scratches. This can prolong the life of your new mobile device. Most people who have used a screen protector are very happy with them. For example, a Zagg Invisible Shield Review states that the screen protectors helped save a mobile device from a terrible scratch that would have ruined it. Since mobile devices cost hundreds of dollars, a screen protector is a worthwhile investment. The cost of purchasing a screen protector is nothing compared to the savings from not having to repair a screen. zagg invisible shield review January 21, 2012 at 5:12 pm Comments (0) How to Create a Website Filed under Internet Marketing by admin The need to create a website is increasing every day. This therefore brings about the need for individuals interested in understanding the basic requirements for creating a website. In developing it, one needs to first know what a website is; a website is a collection of interrelated web pages that contain various types of media including but not limited to text and images. When it comes to developing a website, the following steps are necessary. First, you should asses the needs of your website. You should take time to think about the type of website that you want; how many pages it will have and also how the users will interact with it. Generally when you want to create a website you should have a concrete idea about every aspect of it and then use the idea as a guide. The second step involves creating and editing the content that you plan to have on your website. When you create a website you should know that content is king. This basically means that the content on your site is what will attract the users to it and for this reason you should ensure that you have reliable information on your site. The other essential step necessary to create a website involves getting a reliable web hosting provider. There are many players in this industry and you should therefore be very careful when you want to get this service. Conduct searches for the best providers and also look at forums so as to know what other users think about the service provider. This will help you a lot as the company with good reviews is likely to be the best one to deal with. The last step involves promoting and marketing your website to make it known to your target market. There are many ways that you can market your website. The most common ones being social media (which will help you connect with potential users of you site), blogs and forums. Blogs and forums will help you to create back links to your site. Whenever you post a message on the forum, make sure that you leave a link to your site. To create a website, make sure that you follow the above processes and you will not regret it. create a website January 21, 2012 at 2:21 pm Comments (0) Understanding Female Incontinence and Some Simple Solutions Filed under Other Health by admin Female incontinence typically refers to the loss of control over the urinary bladder resulting in involuntary passage of urine in the clothes. The main causes of urinary incontinence in women are stress incontinence and an overactive bladder function. Also various other factors like genetic weakness of the muscle, overweight or pregnancies may lead to female incontinence. An overactive bladder function leads to urge incontinence in which there is episodic, sudden and involuntary urinary muscle spasm. This leads to an urgency for urinating though the bladder is not full. Stress incontinence is a condition in which the urinary leakage occurs when one laughs loudly, sneezes or coughs. This condition is more common in females which constitute about 80% of those suffering from stress incontinence. Urine is formed in the kidneys and then stored in the bladder which is a balloon like structure that expands as the urine collects in it. Under normal conditions, when the bladder fills by about 200-300ml of urine, one feels the desire to urinate. However when it is not possible to urinate, the bladder can hold up to 500-600ml of urine. When one goes for urination, the muscles of the bladder contract and force the urine out of the bladder. At that same time, the sphincter muscles which surround the urethra and normally prevent the flow of urine, relax and allow the urine to flow out through the urethra. Any extra pressure or change in position of the internal organs, may interfere with this process. Thus any trauma to the pelvic floor structure due to surgery, trauma, radiation or even child birth, may lead to symptoms of incontinence. Incontinence may even be short term problem, when it is caused due to urinary tract infections, kidney or bladder stones, constipation or due to the side-effect of some drugs. In these conditions, treatment of the underlying cause will help relieve the incontinence. However when the incontinence continues, it becomes a major health problem. Females generally feel embarrassed, and the problem starts to affect the quality of their life, body image, sexuality and also their emotional state. But they don’t realize that it is a medical problem for which help can be sought. Among the teenagers and young females, incontinence may be due caused by sports injuries affecting the pelvic muscles. About one-third of pregnant females also experience mild incontinence due to the the pressure exerted on the bladder and the surrounding pelvic muscle by the growing baby. Generally after the baby’s birth, the problem may subside, but if during the process of child-birth, there has been any injury to the bladder, urethra or due to undue stretching of the pelvic muscles, the problem of incontinence may continue. Repeated pregnancies and child-birth may further worsen the condition. Also when females reach menopause, the level of estrogen hormone, which is essential for maintaining the proper functioning of the bladder and urethra, begin to decline. This may also lead to urinary incontinence. In all these conditions, simple lifestyle changes like drinking less water or little at a time, restricting the use of certain liquids like coke or coffee, going for urination frequently, tightening the pelvic muscle before laughing/coughing etc. May be helpful. Certain pelvic floor muscle exercises, bladder training, hormonal creams, biofeedback etc. May also help. However for those whom, these do not work, use of a simple pad or pessary may also prove to be helpful to keep them dry and free from any worries of wetting themselves. Surgery may be the last option. female incontinence , simple pad , urinary incontinence January 21, 2012 at 2:19 pm Comments (0) Tennessee Chevrolet for Best Chevrolet Models Filed under Cars by admin Some cars are vintage cars and they find pride in a very admirable history. A car whose history dates way back to the 19 th century deserves a lot of respect. The Chevrolet car models are one of these vintage cars. Their history is rich and the design of their cars has evolved since then. They say that wine gets better with age and surely these Chevrolet cars have become better with age. The2010 Chevrolet is their latest cars to be produced and it is just world class. This article should not create an impression that buying a Chevrolet car will cost you a fortune. On the contrary, there it is going to direct you to that one dealer who will give a good deal on any model of Chevy that you desire. That dealer is Tennessee Chevrolet . They sell both new and used cars at very fair prices that will not cause you any fortune. tennessee chevrolet January 21, 2012 at 5:10 am Comments (0) Selling Your Vehicle Through a Car Dealership Filed under Cars by admin Some people prefer to sell their own vehicles before finding a new car at car dealerships Fort Collins . However, when you put your car up for sale on your own, you will have to handle phone calls and set up times to meet with potential buyers. You may get more money for your vehicle than if you were to trade it in, but it can take longer. If you do feel strongly about selling your own vehicle, you may want to consider selling it via consignment through a car dealership. Convenience Because the car dealers are on hand six days a week, they will be able to handle your potential buyers for you. Thecar dealerships Fort CollinsCO will take all the phone calls inquiring about your car so you don’t need to worry about missing calls while you are at work or sleeping. They will also show your vehicle during normal business hours. You won’t have to do anything but wait for the phone call that your car has sold. Financing When you sell your vehicle on your own instead of at a car dealership, the buyer is on his own to get the financing he needs. He will need to go to various banks and apply for a loan. This can take time and can leave you hanging when you could be looking for other buyers. However, if you sell on consignment through a car dealership, they will be able to help the buyer with financing so you can get an answer more quickly. Fees The only downside to usingcar dealerships Fort Collinsis that you will owe a fee based on the selling price for your car. On the positive side, though, you will likely still make more on the vehicle than the dealer would give you in trade. This still provides you with the benefit of selling your vehicle instead of trading it in without the inconveniences. Selling your vehicle on your own at car dealerships Fort Collins can get rid of the little annoyances of selling your vehicle yourself, such as constant phone calls and coordinating schedules for showings and test drives. The dealer already handles these situations on a daily basis. They can even help with financing for the buyer. While you will need to pay fees on the sale, you are still likely to make more from the sale than you would to trade in your vehicle to the dealer directly. car dealerships fort collins January 21, 2012 at 3:50 am Comments (0) Search January 2012 M T W T F S S « Dec Feb » 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Recent Entries We Will Be Living in San Antonio Engagement Rings with Unusual Stones How to Clean a Video Camera Dayton Ohio is the Best Place to Live How Can You Find the Best Naples Real Estate Agent? When You Need Concrete Coring Los Angeles Companies Can Handle Your Job Physical Gold Can Not Be Used As Money Now How to Lose Weight Fast: Fresh Fruits and Vegetables Are a Must How to Lose Inner Thigh Fat A Great Massage Federal Way Categories Arts & Entertainment Acting Celebrities Comedy Humor Movies Music Photography Writing Business & Finance Advertising Careers Debt Consolidation Home-Based Business Insurance Internet Marketing Investing Loans/Mortgages Marketing Other Business Personal Finance Real Estate Sales Education College Language Food & Beverage Beer & Wine Cooking Other Recipes Restaurants Health & Well-Being Alternative Medicine Beauty Exercise Hair Loss Medicine Muscle Building Nutrition Other Health Supplements Weight Loss Home & Family Babies Crafts Gardening Holidays Home Improvement Home Security Interior Design Parenting Pets Senior Living News General Shopping Clothing Electronics Furniture Jewelry Other Shopping Toys Society Dating Religion Weddings Sports & Recreation Books Extreme Hobbies Individual Sports Team Sports Technology Computers Gadgets Programming Software Website Design Travel & Leisure Cruises Destinations Travel Tips Vacations Vehicles Cars Motorcycles RVs Trucks/SUVs Blogroll Feed techcrunch.com www.chicagotribune.com Popular Tags accident compensation claim beat eczema best auto insurance car insurance companies carp fishing tackle cash advance cat dandruff cellular abroad cheap car insurance click here earn money online family nurse practitioner salary fast weight loss get six pack abs gift ideas headrest dvd player health insurance hgh supplements hostgator coupon how to cure insomnia how to get rid of blackheads how to lose weight fast how to save a marriage kitchen canister sets loans long distance moving companies lose weight make money payday loans payday loans online physics games promotional products quartz worktops road accident compensation rubber car mats seo seo company seo link robot shaggy rugs spanish classes in barcelona veterinarian vitamix blender website weight loss programs wholesale hardwood flooring Meta Log in Entries RSS Comme