Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Allmax ZMA  (90 caps) - Sleep Aids - Fitshop Help Facebook Articles Contact us For Online Customer Service Call: 1-877-224-1881 Supplements Canada, Sports Nutrition, Vitamins & Fitness Equipment at Fitshop.ca. Canada's Supplement Online Store! Stop Overpaying For Your Health. Canadians Enjoy Free Shipping When You Spent Just $99 or More! Volume Discounts Are Available - Click for Details Amino Acids Misc Arginine Pure BCAA's / Recovery Caffeine Products Carbs CLA Creatine D-Aspartic Acid Diuretics EFA  / Omega 3 Endurance / Electrolytes Energy / Ginseng Estrogen Blockers GH Boosters Glutamine Gluten Free Joint / Arthritis Kosher L-Carnitine Meal Replacement Mixing Cups Muscle Builders Nitric Oxide NSF Approved Post-Workout Pre-Workout Protein - Bars / Food Protein - Blends Protein - Isolate/hydrolysate Protein - Lactose Free Protein - Natural/Stevia Protein - New Zealand Whey Protein - Slow Release/Casein Protein - Vegetable Protein- Beef/Egg RTD Drinks Sex / Libido Testosterone Vitamins - Multi Waxy Maize Weight Gainers Weightloss ZMA Alkaline (PH Products) Antioxidants Appetite Suppressants Bone/Calcium CLA Cold & Flu Detox Products Digestion + Enzymes Diuretics Dr. Oz Top Fat Burners Dr. Oz Top Supplements EFA  / Omega 3 Endurance / Electrolytes Energy / Ginseng Fibre/Fiber GH Boosters Glutamine Gluten Free Green Tea Greens / Phytoberry Healthy Foods Hormone Balance Immune Support Joint / Arthritis Kids Kosher L-Carnitine Liver Health Low Carb Foods Meal Replacement Men's Health Minerals A - ZMA Mixing Cups Mood Enhancement Probiotics Prostate Health Protein - Bars / Food Protein - Isolate Whey Protein - Natural / Stevia Protein - New Zealand Whey Protein - Vegetable Raspberry Ketones Sex / Libido Sleep Aids Stress / DHT / Cortisol Vegan Foods Vitamin B's Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamins - Multi Vitamins A - Z Weightloss Women's Health ZMA Abdominal Ankle / Wrist Weights As Seen On TV Bags - Gym/Lunch Balance / Agility Bands & Tubing Belts Lifting Body Fat Calipers Books / DVD's Chin-up / Push-up Clothing Dumbbells / Weights Exercise / Medicine Balls Foam Rollers Gloves Grip Strength Gym Accessories Home Gym Jump Ropes Kettle Bells Lifting Straps Mixing Cups MMA Accessories Mouth Guards P90X & Equipment Power Lifting Equip Sauna Suits Sports Summer Tanning Products Under $9.99 Weighted Vests Wraps & Supports Yoga & Pilates Conditions Please Select Aging Alzheimer's Anxiety Arthritis Asthma & Allergies Autism Back Pain Belly Fat Cholesterol Cold Sores Depression/Mood Diabetes/Blood Sugar Digestive Problems Energy Fibromyalgia Gout Growth Hormone (HGH) Hair Loss Heart Health High Blood Pressure Hot Flashes Immune System Infertility Iron Deficiency Joint Problems Kidney Health Liver Health Low Testosterone Menopause Muscle Cramps Osteoporosis Prostate Health Sexuality Skin Care Sleep Disorders Stress Thyroid Urinary Tract Water Retention Brands Please Select 6 Pack Bags Absolute Nutrition AccuFitness Advanced Genetics All American EFX AllMax Femme Allmax Nutrition Amazing Grass As Seen On TV Ascenta Beachbody Best Belts Better Body Bio MD - Carb Blocker BPI Sports - 1.M.R. Brain Pharma BSN Sports Nutrition Carb Boom! Champion Nutrition Close Grip CMI ConCret /ProMera Health Cory Everson Fitness Cytosport Daryl's Protein Bars Dream Tan Dymatize Nutrition Dynamis EAS Easy Body Fitness E-Boost Emergen-C / Elec Mix E-Pharm Fitshop FortiFX Protein Bars FRS Live Strong FUSION BODYBUILDING Gaspari Nutrition Georges St-Pierre Goliath Labs Grenade Thermo D Grizzly Hammer Nutrition Heartland Gold Himalaya Hydroxycut iHealth Inbalance Nutrition Iron Asylum Iron Body Fitness Iron Woody ISO-BARS / Fit Stars IsoPure Jan Tana Joint Grease Joy of the Mountains Kaizen Naturals Labrada Lifeline Fitness Liquid Grip Lorna Vanderhaeghe Magnum Nutraceuticals Master Lock MHP (Pudding) Mirafit Misc Equipment MRI Muscle Maxx Muscle Pharm MuscleMeds Muscletech MVP Nutrition Natures Plus New Nordic NOW Foods NuLife Vitamins Nutrex NX Labs Opro Shield Optimum Nutrition Organika P-28 Protein Bread P90X & Equipment Parks & Sun Sports PB2 Peanut Butter Perfect Body Perfect Shaker Pharma Freak / Ripped Freak PhD - Wired Prairie Naturals Premier Nutrition PrimaForce Pro Tan/Bikini Bite PrOATein Bars Progressive Nutritional Promax Protein Crunch JSK Pure Force Pure Naturals Quick Trim ReCleanse Regenovate Revolution Rollers Inc. Sante Nutra Scivation SD Pharm/ Geranium 20 Sex God Supplements Shake Weight Shen Min Slimate Strive Supreme Protein Syntrax Tested Nutrition ThermoLife Tiger Tail Titan PowerLifting TwinLab Ultimate Nutrition Universal Nutrition USP Labs Valeo Veeva Vitaminder Vitargo VPX Sports Whey Crisps Xenadrine Xtremelean York Fitness Signup for the Fitshop Newsletter and save big every week! Follow us on Twitter Fitshop's on Facebook Quick Links 9.99 and under Meal Replacements Dr. Oz's Top 4 Top Weight Loss What's Hot Kosher NSF Approved Gluten Free Vegan Foods Home | General Health | Sleep Aids Allmax ZMA  (90 caps) Quantity : $ 24.94 CAD Help us share this product with the world! Description Recommended Usage Ingredients Enhance strength, endurance, recovery, and growth with the original ZMA formula from SNAC System. ZMA is an advanced zinc/magnesium formulation designed to replace deficiencies caused from exercise and stress. ZMA is a scientifically designed mineral-support formula that can dramatically increase natural levels of anabolic hormones and improve athletic performance. In fact, if taken as recommended, ZMA can increase free testosterone by 30% while boosting IGF-1 levels significantly. Zinc and magnesium deficiencies are common in the general population and even more prevalent in athletes. To illustrate the point, in 1998, the mineral status of over 250 NFL players was tested. Over 70% of the players were either depleted or deficient in both zinc and magnesium. It sounds almost unbelievable because of all the attention we give to good nutrition, but most athletes and active people are deficient in zinc and magnesium which results in decreased hormone levels and diminished strength and power. Zinc Zinc is essential to numerous chemical reactions in the body, including protein synthesis and cellular energy. Its immune system values begin with zinc's ability to regulate the production of T cells. Zinc also helps provides critical protection to the liver, assists in deterring enlargement of the prostate gland, and is essential in maintaining reproductive organ health. Magnesium Magnesium is essential for normal heart function, transporting neurochemicals essential in muscle function and mood regulation, and in the critical balance of sodium and potassium within our cells. Despite its vital contributions, the U.S. Department of Agriculture found that 74% of people take in less than the recommended Daily Value of 400 milligrams (for men). The zinc and magnesium formulations usually contain 450 milligrams. Significantly increases the level of free testosterone Prevents IGF-1 (Insulin growth factor) levels from decreasing during intense training Increases strength gains Reduces muscle cramps Improves recovery The Cause of Zinc and Magnesium Deficiencies Why are we so deficient in zinc and magnesium? Probably the biggest reason is that rigorous exercise and stress result in significant mineral losses. And, to make matters worse, most ordinary types of zinc and magnesium are poorly absorbed.  It's very difficult to recover proper amounts without specific supplementation. The Solution ZMA is designed to combat these deficiencies. University studies have found that the zinc and magnesium contained in ZMA are absorbed far better than other forms. An independent ZMA study was recently conducted on competitive NCAA football players at Western Washington University. The results show that, in eight weeks, the ZMA group increased free and total testosterone levels by 30%, while the placebo group showed a decrease of 10%. The ZMA group also had a slight increase in IGF-1 levels compared to a 20% decrease in the placebo group. In addition to increasing anabolic-hormone levels, the ZMA group gained 2.5 times more strength and functional power over the placebo group. What to Expect So, if you're an athlete, or you're under a lot of stress, you probably need extra zinc and magnesium to perform at your best. And if you incorporate ZMA into your supplement program, odds are you'll attain the same kinds of increases in testosterone and GH production that many athletes have already experienced. How should I take ZMA if I'm training late? Take with water preferably on an empty stomach 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime. Please follow Suggested daily consumption table guideline to see the full picture of ZMA consumption. Is it safe? To Date, side effects have not been reported with the use of ZMA. However, consult a health care practitioner prior to use if you have a known medical condition and do not use if you are under 18, pregnant, contemplating getting pregnant or breastfeeding. ZMA vs. Steroids ZMA is rapidly becoming the preferred natural testosterone boosting supplement by many athletes who were previously using prohormones. ZMA has two very important advantages over prohormones. First, ZMA doesn't need to be cycled, because ZMA will not suppress your own endogenous production of testosterone. ZMA may be taken on a continuous basis, while the prohormone proponents suggest that they be cycled. Secondly, since ZMA is not a prohormone or hormone precursor, it is not banned by any athletic organizations. The Evidence - Effects Of ZMA Supplementation Many world class athletes are reporting tremendous benefits from ZMA, in the gym, as well as on the athletic field. For example, more than 250 NFL players are currently taking ZMA. Lester Archambeau, starting defensive end for last years NFC Champion Atlanta Falcons, says he is "extremely satisfied with ZMA. ZMA definitely helps me recover! I can tell when I take it and when I don't. There is no doubt that it makes me sleep better." And when it comes to the gym, the big Falcon claims, "I have much better endurance when taking ZMA." Bryce Paup , Jacksonville Jaguar's multi-All Pro defensive end and 1995 Defensive Player of the Year (he led the NFL with 17.5 sacks) has also been taking advantage of ZMA. Paup says, "When I take ZMA, I sleep better and more soundly, and I feel more rested when I wake up." And when it comes to the football field, Paup claims, "The more I rest and the better I sleep, the better I perform on the field." According to Dr. Brilla, "A group of competitive NCAA football players who took ZMA nightly during an 8 week spring training program had 2.5 times greater muscle strength gains than a placebo group. Pre and post leg strength measurements were made." The strength of the ZMA group increased by 11.6% compared to only a 4.6% increase in the placebo group. "The muscle strength increases may have been mediated by the anabolic hormone increases in the ZMA group. The ZMA group had 30% increases in free and total testosterone levels compared to 10% decreases in the placebo group. The ZMA group also had a slight increase in insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels compared to a 20% decrease in the placebo group. This study shows that anabolic hormone and muscle strength increases can be induced in already strength-trained athletes by using a novel zinc-magnesium preparation", said Brilla. According to co-investigator Victor Conte, Director of BALCO Laboratories in Burlingame, California, "ZMA is the only all natural product that has been clinically proven to increase anabolic hormone levels and muscle strength in trained athletes." The dosage of ZMA used in the study contains 30 mg of zinc and 450 mg of magnesium. "There has never been a study reporting adverse health effects at these moderate dosages." said Conte. John Gamble, strength and conditioning coach for the Miami Dolphins, reports that "players using ZMA are cramping much less and seem to be getting a more deep and restful sleep which enhances their recovery". Various sports performance supplements such as steroids have been considered controversial by many experts. However, ZMA is an all natural product that is a safe and more effective alternative. ZMA is also the first night-time anabolic formula developed specifically to enhance recovery by improving sleep efficiency. ZMA is a very effective sleep aid and is recommended to be taken 30-60 minutes before bedtime. Many athletes fail to realize how important it is to get a deep and restful sleep. Healing, tissue repair, anabolic hormone production and muscle growth are maximized during sleep, so quality sleep is extremely important to athletes. 1. What is ZMA? ZMA is a unique patent-pending anabolic formula manufactured by a proprietary process containing highly bioavailable forms of Zinc, Magnesium Aspartate and Vitamin B6. ZMA is a powerful non-steroidal, all-natural dietary supplement. It’s clinically tested to support muscle strength significantly greater than placebo during a strength training program. 2. How do I use ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA? Take 2 capsules daily on an empty stomach, 30-60 minutes prior to bedtime. ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA is for adult use only. 3. How does each of the ingredients in ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA work? Synergistically these nutrients work together to boost testosterone levels: Zinc (Zinc Monomethionine)– is an anabolic mineral that promotes the production of the growth hormone testosterone which can help to increase muscle strength and size. Zinc can also reduce the build-up of lactic acid in the muscles, allowing you to train longer and harder. Magnesium (as Magnesium Aspartate) – this mineral helps to increase strength and promotes relaxation. It is responsible for transporting oxygen to the muscles. Many athletes are deficient in both zinc and magnesium due to their diets and the amount of stress they place on their bodies. ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA provides the body with optimal amounts of these key minerals to provide increased muscle strength and relaxation when needed. Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine HCl) - the addition of B6 to the ZMA complex promotes the efficient absorption of Zinc and Magnesium. 4. What does ZMA do? By taking the precise amount of Zinc and Magnesium (as found in ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA) you can enhance muscle strength and promote relaxation. 5. Is ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA safe to take? ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA is completely natural and safe to take. There are no known side effects associated with ZMA. 6. How does ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA help me at the gym? ZMA has been shown to support the body’s ability to produce testosterone and can help increase strength. The combination of Zinc and Magnesium has been tested and proven to enhance healthy hormone production of the anabolic hormone testosterone. 7. Can’t I just purchase each of the ingredients found in ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA separately? The dosage of ingredients contained in ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA is the exact amount needed to naturally raise testosterone levels and produce an anabolic effect. It is the specific forms of Magnesium, Zinc and Vitamin B6 found in ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA that works effectively together. Purchasing each of these ingredients separately will not have the same effect as they may not be the precise amount proven in clinical studies. For sake of convenience and to experience your best results you should use the ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA stack. 8. Who can use ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA? ZMA is a natural supplement. The ingredients can naturally be found in everyday food sources. Therefore, it’s safe for use for anyone who wants to improve their athletic performance and increase strength. Both males and females can benefit from ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA’s ability to increase anabolic hormone levels. 9. Is ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA legal? Yes, ALLMAX Nutrition ZMA is legal. It’s a completely natural supplement. The ingredients in ZMA can be found in food sources. Proteins ISO Whey Protein Beef Based Protein Natural Protein Protein Bars Lactose Free Protein For Men Creatine Pre-Workout Men's Health Hair Loss For Women Womens Product Vegetarian Fat burners Yoga & Pilates Shop Supplements General Health Fitness Equipment What's New Mike's Picks Gift Cards Discounts Articles Nutrition Articles Training Articles Motivation Recipes My Order View Your Cart Shipping Information Help Center Terms of Sale Contact Us The Fitshop Newsletter We love our customers and we love our products. Our newsletter is the best way to keep our two favorite things linked together. We send it out every 10 days jam packed with product specials and great information to keep you in the know! I am: Canadian American Check out a sample of our newsletter! We will never share your personal information with anyone. Read our Privacy Policy over at your leisure. Over 3,000 of the Best Health and Fitness Products & Counting! Copyright © Fitshop™ 2011. All rights reserved. ® INTERA