
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 22 Feb 2012 22:07:23 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

COSMETICSINFO.ORG - Your source for safety information about cosmetics and personal care products ingredients Type in an ingredient name, product type or issue related to cosmetic safety. Baby Products Bath Products Eye Makeup Products Facial Makeup Products Fragrance Products Hair Care Products Hair Dye and Hair Coloring Products Nail Products Oral Care Products Personal Cleanliness Products Shaving Products Skin Care Products (Creams, Lotions, Powders, and Sprays) Sunscreen and Suntan Products 1 2 3 Aloe Ferox Leaf Juice Extract What is it? Aloe Barbadensis Flower Extract, Aloe Barbadensis Leaf, Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract, Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice, Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Polysaccharides and Aloe Barbadensis Leaf water are ingredients made from the plant Aloe barbadensis , which is also commonly called Aloe vera . Other specis of aloe, such as Aloe andongensis , Aloe arborescens and Aloe ferox may also be used to derive cosmetic ingredients.  These ingredients include Aloe Andongensis Extract, Aloe Andongensis Leaf Juice, Aloe Arborescens Leaf Extract, Aloe Arborescens Leaf Protoplasts, Aloe Ferox Leaf Extract, Aloe Ferox Leaf Juice and Aloe Ferox Leaf Juice Extract. More information about botanical ingredients In cosmetics and personal care products, ingredients derived from the various species of aloe are used primarily in skin care preparations, makeup formulations and makeup removers, and bath soaps. Safety Information The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reviewed the safety of various aloe species including Aloe barbadensis and Aloe ferox and determined that they may be used as natural flavoring substances for direct addition to food. The Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel has evaluated the safety of the ingredients derived from the Aloe barbadensis species of plant (which is commonly called Aloe vera ).  These are the ingredients made from aloe plants that are most often used in cosmetics.  The CIR Expert Panel concluded that they were safe for use in cosmetics. The CIR Expert Panel noted that aloe-derived ingredients may contain anthraquinones, which can be of concern if present at high levels.  However, the data available for review by the CIR Expert Panel supported the conclusion that the manufacturing process is well-established and that current controls followed during production are adequate to ensure that anthraquinones remain below levels that would be of concern. The CIR Expert Panel included other species of aloe in their review – Aloe andongensis , Aloe arborescens and Aloe ferox , and noted that the characterization of ingredients derived from these plants was not clear, especially with highly productive whole-leaf processing and concluded that there were insufficient data to allow the CIR Expert Panel to reach a conclusion.  These ingredients find very limited use in cosmetics. Why is it used in cosmetics and personal care products? Aloe-derived ingredients enhance the appearance of dry or damaged skin by reducing flaking and restoring suppleness. Scientific facts: Aloe is typically obtained from the leaves of aloe plants. Historically, it has been believed that Aloe improves wound-healing and skin inflammation. IMPORTANT LE