
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: cloudflare-nginx
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 12:28:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
Expires: Wed, 11 Jan 1984 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 12:44:06 GMT
Vary: User-Agent

How to Use Unique Home Remedies For Cough | GET NATURAL HEALTH SOLUTIONS Jump to Content Jump to Navigation Jump to Footer GET NATURAL HEALTH SOLUTIONS Recommendations for Natural Alternative Solutions To Common Health Problems How to Use Unique Home Remedies For Cough Posted February 3rd, 2011 by Chris 1. Try This Orange Juice and Honey Recipe- Combine 2 tablespoons of honey into a glass of orange juice and drink up. You can drink this warm or cold. Warm is soothing if you also have a sore throat that accompanies your cough. 2. Make a Grape Juice and Honey Recipe-You do the same as the orange juice and honey remedy above, just substitute grape juice for the orange juice. 3. Suck on Hard Candy-This helps to create more saliva which moisturizes your mouth and decreases the amount you will cough.This is a great on-the-run remedy. 4. Drink a Water and Apple Cider Vinegar Solution-Add any apple cider vinegar to a glass of water and drink slowly. If you have a hard time with the taste you can add some honey to help the mixture go down easier 5. Make a Quick Vicks Vapor Rub- SteamBoil one cup of water on the stove or in the microwave and add one teaspoon of Vicks Vapor Rub. Keep cup below your nose and breathe in deeply for a few minutes. Be careful not to burn your nostrils or face by being too close to the steam vapors. 6. Soothing Milk With Garlic – Boil 3 cloves of garlic in milk and drink up. This solution is the answer if you have a dry cough. It is not effective for a cough where mucus is present. 7. Mix Honey With Vodka or Brandy – Obviously you do not want to have an excess of this mixture and also this is not one of the natural remedies you can use for your children. 8. Combine Warm Water with Garlic and Oregano -Set a pot of water on the stove and bring it to a boil. Add 3 cloves of garlic and one teaspoon of oregano and continue boiling for 3 to 4 minutes. Pour in cup and drink by itself or you could add to milk. Whatever it takes to make it easier for you to tolerate the taste. 9. Try Vicks Vapor Rub on Your Feet – This perhaps odd answer is astonishingly effective. Simply rub a significant quantity of Vicks onto your feet and put your feet in socks. Sleep like this. google wordpress plugin This entry was posted on Thursday, February 3rd, 2011 at 9:40 AM and is filed under Home Cures . You can follow responses to this entry through the Comments RSS Feed .  You can leave a response or trackback from your site. 2 Responses to: “How to Use Unique Home Remedies For Cough” the pregnancy miracle responds: Posted: February 16th, 2011 at 1:31 AM → “i jus started noticing mine getting a little bigger 2day and im only 3 weeks along”… “Mine seemed like they started growing right away. Isn’t that partially why they are so sore at first?”… martin responds: Posted: August 7th, 2011 at 1:21 AM → Apple cider vinegar may look to you as an easy cure, but you'll definitely be stunned to find out how well it works. Post a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment. GET NATURAL HEALTH SOLUTIONS Home Top - Copyright © 2007-2012, GET NATURAL HEALTH SOLUTIONS. All rights reserved Powered by WordPress - Accessible Beast-Blog v.2.0 theme by: Mike Cherim Note: This is the end of the usable 