<1% and DS <2%. Remember, I can quote all the statistics you'd want but if happens to someone you know it's 100%.That is why we spend a significant portion of our consultation time talking about risks. Death can be from many causes including but not limited to pulmonary embolism, heart attack, massive abdominal infection from leakage. These are real entities, but remember, the risk of surgery is outweighed by the benefits if your BMI is in the appropriate range. Hope that helps Cincerz. LINDA 6 WEEKS POST OP YOU HAVE THE NEXT QUESTION:) I'm 6 weeks out and still have gallbladder I heard if I take the medicine to help make it empty it will cause you to gain weight is this true? and if I don't take it how good are my chances of being okay?I'm so confused! help & how much should I be eating at a  meal a 1/2 cup or a less?sometimes I can eat more if its a soft food less if it is a solid food sometimes a few bites is that normal? Linda, it is important to take the Actigall. The risk of gallstone formation during you weight loss period is reduced from about 20% to 2%. You should take the medication as your surgeon has prescribed. does it cause weight gain & for how long do you take it? Next part, Linda, you should be taking in good amounts of protein and minimizing fat and carbohydrates. We tell our patients to limit their calorie intake to 800kcal a day, eating 3 meals a day, in between drinking liquids and protein  supplements. Liquids usually go down better than solids but you should use solids in your meal. Now, remember in the first 4-6 weeks, in the RGB or RNY (same surgery), you are at risk for narrowing of the stomach connection. If you find yourself with severe difficulty swallowing you may want to get looked at. Good luck!  You can look in our Dietician's Corner for some advice about meals and definitely talk to your surgeon. DIANE AGUADO YOU HAVE THE NEXT QUESTION:) i had gallbladder surgery 23 yrs ago what are my odds of getting rny lap i'm 43 now surgery date 11/06/02 i have a 12 inch scar on my stomach Diane, good question. Is that your gallbladder scar? yes Have you asked your surgeon about his conversion to open rate? And when he does so? Do you mind telling me who your surgeon is? Dr. Madura at Rush in Chicago. He said he wouldn't know till he is in there. Usually, if you just have a scar in the right upper portion of your abdomen, it is pretty straight forward to perform the RNY totally laparoscopically in our hands. BARB YOU HAVE THE NEXT QUESTION:) How many weight loss surgeries have you performed? Our practice works together as a group and we have together performed over 500 bariatric procedures THANK YOU Dr. Jossart! THANK YOU MEMBERS! FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE VISIT Dr. Jossart AT WWW.LAPSF.COM THANK YOU Dr. Jossart FOR TAKING THE TIME TO JOIN US HERE TONIGHT! AND THANK YOU TO OUR MEMBERS AS WELL Thank you everyone! Please contact us if you're interested! Contact us via 
  email or phone or register for an appointment . Read more about morbid 
  obesity surgery , bariatric surgery , or gastric bypass surgery , or LapBand ®. Call today to talk to a Specialist: toll free 866-957-3627 Contact Us Click here to schedule an appointment. Home | What 
      We Do | Contact 
      Us/Appointments | Disclaimers | Office Locations | Hospitals 
      Where We Practice Surgery 
      for Morbid Obesity | Other Laparoscopic Procedures | Sitemap , Laparoscopic Associates of San Francisco, 
    P.C. All rights reserved. Laparoscopic Associates of San Francisco is a service 
    mark of Laparoscopic Associates of San Francisco, P.C. All content contained 
    on this website is protected by copyright, trademark, and/or patent. No content 
    may be reproduced, copied, or redistributed in any form without the express 
    wri