Content-Type: text/html
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close

allAfrica.com: Comments &raquo Traditional Male Circumcision With a Modern Edge English En Français AllAfrica myAfrica Travel blogAfrica Sources Free Headlines: Email RSS My Account Countries All Countries Algeria Angola Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Congo-Kinshasa Cote d'Ivoire Djibouti Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea Bissau Kenya Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger Nigeria Rwanda Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sudan Swaziland São Tomé and Príncipe Tanzania Togo Tunisia Uganda Western Sahara Zambia Zimbabwe Central Africa Angola Burundi Cameroon Central African Republic Chad Congo-Brazzaville Congo-Kinshasa Equatorial Guinea Gabon Rwanda São Tomé and Príncipe East Africa Burundi Comoros Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Kenya Madagascar Mauritius Rwanda Seychelles Somalia South Sudan Sudan Tanzania Uganda North Africa Algeria Egypt Libya Morocco Tunisia Western Sahara Southern Africa Angola Botswana Lesotho Malawi Mozambique Namibia South Africa Swaziland Zambia Zimbabwe West Africa Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Cote d'Ivoire Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea Bissau Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Senegal Sierra Leone São Tomé and Príncipe Togo Topics All Topics AIDS Africa on the Move Agribusiness Aid and Assistance Arms and Armies Arts Asia, Australia, and Africa Athletics Banking Book Reviews Books Business Capital Flows Children Climate Commodities Company Conflict Construction Corruption Currencies Debt Ecotourism Education Energy Environment Europe and Africa External Relations Food and Agriculture Game Parks Governance Health Human Rights ICT Infrastructure International Organisations Investment Labour Land and Rural Issues Latin America and Africa Legal Affairs Malaria Manufacturing Media Middle East and Africa Migration Mining Music Music Reviews NGO Nutrition Oceans Olympics Peacekeeping Petroleum Polio Pregnancy and Childbirth Privatization Refugees Religion Science Soccer Sport Stock Markets Sustainable Development Terrorism Trade Transport Travel Tuberculosis U.S., Canada and Africa Urban Issues Water Wildlife Women World Cup Arts Book Reviews Books Music Music Reviews Business Agribusiness Banking Capital Flows Commodities Company Construction Currencies Debt Energy ICT Infrastructure Investment Labour Manufacturing Mining Petroleum Privatization Stock Markets Trade Transport Conflict Arms and Armies Peacekeeping Refugees Terrorism Environment Climate Oceans Water Wildlife Health AIDS Malaria Nutrition Polio Pregnancy and Childbirth Tuberculosis Sport Athletics Olympics Soccer World Cup Travel Ecotourism Game Parks Development Aid and Assistance Education Environment Food and Agriculture Health Women BizTech BizTech Home Agribusiness Banking Capital Flows Commodities Company Construction Currencies Debt Energy ICT Infrastructure Investment Labour Manufacturing Mining Petroleum Privatization Stock Markets Trade Transport Arts Book Reviews Books Music Music Reviews Sport Athletics Olympics Soccer World Cup External Relations Asia, Australia, and Africa Europe and Africa International Organisations Latin America and Africa Middle East and Africa U.S., Canada and Africa Governance Corruption Governance Human Rights Land and Rural Issues Legal Affairs Media NGO Multimedia Video Audio Document Web Site InFocus Pages PhotoEssays Kenya: Traditional Male Circumcision With a Modern Edge allAfrica.com, 16 March 2012 A chorus of ululations pierces the dawn at Pius Nyaga's homestead in eastern Kenya, marking the end of a brief ritual near the family cowshed. Nyaga's son, Antony Mwiti, has just completed the rite of passage into manhood - the traditional way. Comments Post a comment ML Mar 16 2012, 21:31 Report Abuse From the USAID report "LEVELS AND SPREAD OF HIV SEROPREVALENCE AND
ASSOCIATED FACTORS: EVIDENCE FROM NATIONAL HOUSEHOLD SURVEYS"
"There appears no clear pattern of association between male circumcision
and HIV prevalence—in 8 of 18 countries with data, HIV prevalence is
lower among circumcised men, while in the remaining 10 countries it is
higher."
http://www.measuredhs.com/pubs/pdf/CR22/CR22.pdf The South African National Communication Survey on HIV/AIDS, 2009 found
that 15% of adults across age groups "believe that circumcised men do not
need to use condoms".
http://www.info.gov.za/issues/hiv/survey_2009.htm From the committee of the South African Medical Association Human Rights,
Law & Ethics Committee :
"the Committee expressed serious concern that not enough
scientifically-based evidence was available to confirm that circumcisions
prevented HIV contraction and that the public at large was influenced by
incorrect and misrepresented information. The Committee reiterated its view
that it did not support circumcision to prevent HIV transmission." The one randomized controlled trial into male-to-female transmission showed
a 54% higher rate in the group where the men had been circumcised btw:
http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(09)60998-3/a
bstract ABC (Abstinence, Being faithful, and especially Condoms) is the way
forward.  Promoting genital surgery will cost African lives, not save them. Marc Mar 17 2012, 01:51 Report Abuse A recent study in Denmark found circumcised men have a much higher rate of
sexual problems. 
http://ije.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2011/06/13/ije.dyr104.short?rss
=1 The South African Medical Journal has vehemently challenged the faulty
studies that claim circumcision reduces HIV. 
www.samj.org.za/index.php/samj The few studies in Africa that found male circumcision reduces HIV are
contradicted by observational studies.	See:
www.publichealthinafrica.org/index.php/jphia/article/view/jphia.2011.e4/htm
l_9
This recent study found no association between circumcision in Kenya and
HIV rates.  
www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0015552?utm_sou
rce=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+plosone%2FPLoSONE+%28PL
oS+ONE+Alerts%3A+New+Articles%29 Research shows the male foreskin is the most sensitive part of the penis. 
www.livescience.com/health/070615_penis_sensitivity.html Tom Tobin Mar 17 2012, 07:45 Report Abuse Circumcision is a hoax, being used to play Africans as fools.  A few
pro-cutting people got together, and formed a group, and said, "How can we
do this?"  I know this sounds crazy.  Want proof?  Go to circleaks.com,
people, Daniel Halperin, and click on the link for reference 2, the second
part, not the first.  There, for all to see, are the names of some of
authors of studies which 'proved' that circumcision reduces HIV by 60%. 
rcbailey?  Wasn't it Robert C. Bailey who did one of the studies, along
with Stephen Moses.  There is an smoses on the list.  Along with them, are
the heads of organizations who get off on circumcision as a sexual thing. 
Dr. Gray published studies with Brian Morris, who has long been associated
with promoting circumcision for bathroom splatter, to prevent injury to the
foreskin, and so the foreskin can't get caught in a zipper.
Everybody knows it doesn't actually stop HIV.  We in the US have watched
hundreds of thousands of circumcised men die of AIDS.
It is really time for Africa to wake up, and know that circumcision is a
distraction from real prevention.
Condoms work.  They protect both partners, not just the man. Connect with allAfrica.com AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC. © 2012 AllAfrica // Privacy // Con