Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 21 Jul 2011 18:05:48 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "716c93d1d047cc1:4de"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:29:10 GMT
Connection: close

Sciatica - DrDonnica.com - The First Name in Women's Health We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here . Sciatica Q: I spend my days chasing after two toddlers, so occasional muscle pain is 
  just par for the course. But about a month ago I began experiencing frequent 
  and painful cramping in the backs of my legs, especially when I'm sitting. It's 
  getting so bad that I can't even sit down to enjoy dinner with my family! What 
  could this be, and what can I do about it? Dr. Donnica: It's unclear exactly what is causing your symptoms, but it 
is clear what you need to do about it: you need to consult a physician for a complete 
physical exam. You've described a syndrome called nerve root pressure, which probably 
has its origins in some sort of back strain, especially if the pain extends below 
the knee. It could be "sciatica" if the sciatic nerves are affected, 
but there are many other nerve root possibilities. The pain is generally worsened 
by sitting, prolonged standing, forward bending, coughing, sneezing, lifting or 
straining (as in a bowel movement). The pain may be temporarily relieved by walking, 
lying down, and extending (straightening) the spine. If you have numbness, tingling 
or weakness in one or both legs or any loss of bladder or bowel control, this 
requires immediate medical attention. There are many other factors that may contribute to leg cramping, although 
  the exact causes are generally unknown. Conditions your doctor will want to 
  rule out include spondylolisthesis (a bulging of the disc between the spinal 
  vertebrae) and spinal stenosis. Inadequate stretching and muscle fatigue (common 
  for moms!), deconditioning, dehydration, and depletion of electrolytes (e.g. 
  potassium, magnesium, and calcium) may also be factors. Self-care tips include 
  stopping the activity that seemed to trigger the cramp; gently stretching and 
  massaging the affected muscles; and holding the affected muscles in a stretched 
  position until the cramp stops. Keep well hydrated and be sure to get an adequate 
  amount of calcium and magnesium in your diet or with supplements. Most importantly, 
  however, is for you to get a medical evaluation. Created: 10/29/2004&nbsp -  Donnica Moore, M.D. All the content contained herein is copyrighted pursuant to federal law. Duplication or use without the express written permission of DrDonnica.com subjects the violator to both civil & criminal penalties. Copyright © 2006 DrDonnica.com. All rights reserved. Home | Today on DrDonnica.com | Meet Dr. Donnica | TV Appearances | Clinical Trials Diseases & Conditions | Decisionnaires | Celebrity Speak Out | Guest Experts | Women's Health Champions FAQs | Women’s Health Resources | Archive | Books & Tapes | Site Certification | Advanced Search Mission | What’s New? | Pr