Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://products.mercola.com/d-mannose/index.htm
Last-Modified: Thu, 19 Jan 2012 01:59:02 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "7d70f3ea4dd6cc1:5897"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 07 Mar 2012 02:59:43 GMT
Connection: close

D-Mannose | Urinary Tract Health Supplement - Mercola.com Home Products Articles Health Blog My Clinic Search Contact Us Call Toll Free: 877-985-2695 Tweet Email "The Cranberry Juice 'Myth' Most Women Still Believe..." Myths, half-truths and urban legends abound... And for this thing that strikes primarily women, this well-known half-truth can be a trap if you don't know the 360 degree picture. Discover the groundbreaking development I consider a far better option... If you have less-than-optimal urinary tract health, listen  up.  If you have optimal urinary tract  health, you should still pay attention because that could change. That’s because… Less-than-Optimal Urinary Tract Health Is a Fact of Life for Many Women… New and Improved D-Mannose is not a drug. This nutritional supplement occurs  naturally in cranberries, peaches, apples, other berries, and some plants. At  some time in their lives, one out of  every five women will experience less-than-optimal urinary tract health.  And, it’s not just women who are concerned  with urinary tract health – men are, too. It’s  entirely possible that your urinary tract health could be less than optimal… and you don’t even know it. You’ve  probably heard of a number of ways to promote optimal urinary tract health  naturally. And I bet cranberry juice is one of the things you think can do it  the best… But What's the Scoop with Cranberry Juice … 
Does It Really Work? Cranberry juice is NOT my  recommended choice for promoting urinary tract health because it is high in fructose that  can potentially lead you to health issues. The  D-Mannose found naturally in cranberries, other fruits, and some plants,  however, is exceptional for helping you promote a healthy urinary tract.* Cranberry juice has long been thought to help boost your  urinary tract health.  And, you’ll be  happy to know that studies do indeed show that drinking cranberry juice can help support a healthy urinary tract. But, this will come as a surprise to many, drinking  blueberry, peach, or apple juice could theoretically have the same beneficial  effects, too. However, there’s a  BIG problem with cranberry juice as well all of these other juices: SUGAR. To be more specific, these juices, including cranberry juice,  are loaded with fructose , a  monosaccharide (simple sugar) that can potentially cause many health problems,  including impacting the normal way your urinary tract functions. You see, if you eat sugars and grains (which also rapidly  break down to sugars), it becomes more difficult to maintain a healthy balance  of flora. As a result, you’re much more likely to experience less-than-optimal  urinary tract health. So, although cranberry juice can assist your efforts, I  would not advise using it in its juice form. It simply has far too much sugar  in it.  In a moment, I’m going to expose  another way you can get all the benefits of cranberry (and a lot more) that I  think you’re going to love. But, first, here are a  number of… Simple Things You Can Do to Support Your Urinary Tract Health The  D-Mannose for New and Improved D-Mannose comes from a simple sugar found naturally  in birch and beech trees. Is it all bad news? Of course not. There are simple things you can do to help promote a health  urinary tract, including: Drink plenty of water every day – this dilutes  your urine and helps you regularly flush your system. Urinate when you feel the need. Don't resist the  urge to go. For women, wipe from front to back, and use unscented  and unbleached toilet paper as many women react to the dyes and chemicals in  other toilet papers. Take showers instead of baths. Cleanse your genital area prior to and after  sexual intercourse, or better yet use a bidet. Avoid feminine deodorant sprays, douches, and  powders that can lead to irritation of the urethra and genitals. Only use natural cotton sanitary napkins and  tampons. 97% of women believe they are made of cotton, but the truth is LESS  THAN one percent actually is. By following these simple, but effective suggestions, you can help support your  urinary tract health. But, what can you do if you already have less-than-optimal urinary  tract health or simply want to support your urinary tract health?* Is there any help out there? Yes, and I’m really  excited to share this groundbreaking new development in urinary tract health  with you now…* D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® The Support You Need Is Finally Here* I’d like to tell you about one of the most advanced urinary tract health formulations available today.* It’s called D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS and, as you’ll quickly see, I  feel it’s hands-down the best supplement you can use to help support your  urinary tract … but it does much more, too.* With its Patent-Pending Triple Action, D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS is a unique combination of DDS®  probiotic blend, natural D-Mannose and concentrated Cranberry fruit extract and  FOS. As a natural alternative for  women, D-Mannose  with Cran-Gyn DDS helps: Support your urinary tract health* Maintain a healthy balance of flora* Promote optimal digestive health* Support your immune system* Contribute to the maintenance of healthy  intestinal flora* This award-winning three-in-one blend works by creating a favorable environment for healthy flora  throughout your urinary tract* (see below for more information).   It also helps promote a healthy balance of flora  throughout your digestive system.* In simple terms, that means you get more of  the good guys.* And, since we use an innovative compaction technology that  puts more “goodness” in every pill than we otherwise could, you don’t have to  take a ton of pills to experience the benefits of D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS . In other words, you can finally experience the ongoing support you’ve  always wanted.* … without worrying about side  effects. … without  the worry or fear. By supporting your urinary tract health and promoting ideal  immune and digestive function, you’ll be treating  yourself to wellbeing you deserve.* But, I bet you’re wondering… how does  it really work? To find out, we’ll  have to uncover… Cranberry's Hidden Secret Is Waiting for You You’ve learned earlier that I don’t recommend cranberry  juice because of all the sugar it contains. However, there is a little-known  carbohydrate that can be found naturally in cranberry extract, as well as  peaches, apples, and other berries and even birch trees that is turning heads  everywhere. It’s called D-Mannose and it’s been mostly ignored … until recently. That’s because researchers are discovering that it can  help support your urinary tract health.* But  it doesn’t stop there. D-Mannose promotes a healthy balance of  flora and – here’s the real winner – it  can support urinary tract health.* Although  you can find D-Mannose in cranberries, we use a special all-natural  D-Mannose harvested from birch trees in D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS . But, don’t worry… if  you’re a cranberry lover, I’ve got great news for you… Research  is showing that – although cranberry juice is filled with what I believe are too  many sugars that can lead to other potential health problems – cranberry  EXTRACT is another story altogether.  Recent  studies suggest that components found in cranberry extract may work the same  way as cranberry juice.* That means you’re getting two ingredients to help support  urinary tract health instead of just one with D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS .* But, what would you  say, if I told you that I believe that D-Mannose and cranberry extract alone  were just not good enough? You Get the Additional Power of Probiotics, Too* To give you the best support possible, we went an extra step  further.* D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS is formulated with a  unique combination of DDS® probiotic blend (containing broad spectrum  Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium bifidum, Bifidobacterium longum and  Bifidobacterium lactis) at 5 billion CFU/g potency. What’s this mean to you? Certain  probiotic strains, like L. acidophilus, have demonstrated the ability to support  a health balance of flora.*  Additionally,  studies have also shown that L. acidophilus supports  the health of the vaginal and urethral linings.* Plus, it shows positive  effects in the support of urinary tract health overall.* And, since the probiotic strain we use is acid- and bile-resistant, up to 97% of the probiotics reach your intestine after passing  through your stomach.* That means, you can feel confident knowing that you’re doing  something to help support your urinary  tract health AND you may also benefit with improved digestive health and support  for your immune system.* Plus, an added benefit, you can use D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS to help boost the “good bacteria” in your gut .* You’ll be especially thankful for this when you help promote  your body’s healthy balance of flora.* D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS offers you the powerhouse solution you’ve been seeking…  all in one convenient place to help provide the urinary tract support you want.* Award-Winning Three-in-One Power 
Harnessed For You I’m  honored to tell you that D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS won the 2010 Best of  Supplements award by Better Nutrition , one of the leading health supplement magazines in the USA. The award recognized Cran-Gyn DDS as an outstanding  formulation in the Women’s Health Category based upon extensive input from  experts in the field. Manufactured in a NSF-GMP certified facility with strict quality control , you will also  be happy to know we demand total transparency throughout the entire quality  control process. The facility is also Kosher and Halal certified. Plus, this non-GMO product doesn’t  contain any major food allergens such as dairy, gluten, wheat, corn,  soy, barley, rye, oats, nuts, egg, fish, peanuts, animal fat, or preservatives. In  the final equation, D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS is simply the best product I know of to help support all your urinary tract health needs.* It’s a three-in-one combination that gives  you… Don't Forget About Your Urinary Tract Health – Get Yours Today…* I suggest making sure you always have a supply on hand to support  your urinary tract health*: D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS is gentle enough to use as daily.* Remember, one in five women have less-than-optimal  urinary tract health. Take the smart step and order yours today. Imagine  how helpful D-Mannose  with Cran-Gyn DDS can be. Get the support you’re seeking with  this breakthrough way to support your urinary tract heath.* So, do yourself a favor and regularly  take this product.* What Are You Waiting For? I’ve found that the D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS is one of the best ways to promote total urinary tract health.*  Plus, I still am amazed at the benefits it  offers for your intestinal, digestive and immune functions.* I feel the support D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS offers you is unmatched.* Now, D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS allows you to experience the peace of  mind you’ve been seeking.* Making  the right choice today means support into the future… that should help you rest easier for a long time to  come.* Suggested usage: Take 1 capsule before meal on an empty stomach preferably in the morning as a  dietary supplement for maintenance of urinary tract and gastrointestinal  health.* For additional support: take 2 capsules before meal 1 to 2 times  daily.* To celebrate this groundbreaking new discovery in women’s  urinary tract health*, I’m offering D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS to you at a significant discount. One bottle of D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS sells for $24.95, but if you order now you'll pay just $19.97 – more than 20% off. Or save even more... Three bottles should cost $74.85, but  can be yours today for only $47.97 – more  than 36% off. Remember, it takes just pennies per day to help support your  urinary tract health and your overall wellbeing.* Don't wait another minute – order your D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS TODAY! You deserve nothing  less than optimal health.* Incredible Deal! Buy 2 Get 2 FREE D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® 30 capsules per bottle 4-Month Supply List Price: $99.80 Your Price: $49.90 You Save: $49.90 (50%) † Buy 2 Get 2 FREE when you buy    at list price Incredible Deal! Buy 2 Get 2 FREE (2) D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® 30 capsules per bottle (2) Complete Probiotics 30 capsules per bottle 2-Month Supply List Price: $129.84 Your Price: $64.92 You Save: $64.92 (50%) † Buy 2 Get 2 FREE when you buy    at list price Incredible Deal! D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® 3-Pack (90 capsules) 3-Month Supply List Price: $74.85 Your Price: $47.97 You Save: $26.88 (36%) D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® 1 bottle (30 capsules) 1-Month Supply List Price: $24.95 Your Price: $19.97 You Save: $4.98 (20%) I am so confident that you will be more than satisfied with your purchase of my D-Mannose with Cran-gyn DDS , I am providing a Lifetime 100% Satisfaction Guarantee so you can try them risk free! Please click here for more details. All D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® Labels Click to view D-Mannose with Cran-Gyn DDS® Tweet Email Home | Products | Articles | Health Blog | My Clinic | Search | Contact Us | Sitemap * These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. © Copyright 1997- Dr. Joseph Mercola. All Rights Reserved. This content may be copied in full, with copyright, contact, creation and information intact, without specific permission, when used only in a not-for-profit format. If you want to use this article on your site please click here . If any other use is desired, permission in writing from Mercola.com is required. Disclaimer: The entire contents of this website are based upon the opinions of Dr. Mercola, unless otherwise noted. Individual articles are based upon the opinions of the respective author, who retains copyright as marked. The information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. It is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of Dr. Mercola and his community. Dr. Mercola encourages you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualif