
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 06 Mar 2012 02:39:20 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.33 (Unix) PHP/4.3.4 mod_ssl/2.8.22 OpenSSL/0.9.7e mod_jk/1.2.8
Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=8F43234F711EA82167CDD2337CCCA040; Path=/adult
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bariatric Surgery: Frequently Asked Questions - The University of Chicago Medicine Home | About Us | Directions & Maps | Donate or Volunteer | Contact Us Request an appointment: 1-888-UCH-0200 Site Search Go Specialties and Departments General Surgery Center for the Surgical Treatment of Obesity Why Choose Us? Surgical Options FAQ Meet Our Team Patient Resources Bariatric Surgery Information Session Find a Physician Request an Appointment Patient and Visitor Information Online Library Clinical Trials Classes and Events For Medical Professionals Jobs Email Print Home > Specialties > General Surgery > Center for the Surgical Treatment of Obesity > Bariatric Surgery: Frequently Asked Questions At the University of Chicago Medicine, we want you to feel confident that weight loss surgery is right for you. This Q & A is designed to give you answers to common questions people have about weight loss surgery.  If you do not find answers to your questions regarding bariatric surgery, please call us at (773) 834-3524. How do I know if I am eligible for weight loss surgery? Is weight loss surgery right for everyone? What are the risks of weight loss surgery? How much weight will I lose? Will the weight loss be quick? Can I become pregnant after weight loss surgery? Will my insurance cover the procedure? If I am interested in weight loss surgery, what is my first step? What should I bring to my first appointment with the surgeon? Where is my first appointment? What happens during the first appointment? After the first appointment, how long will it take before I have surgery? How long will I have to stay in the hospital after surgery? How long will I be off of work after surgery? Will I continue seeing my primary care physician after surgery? What if I have excess skin? Will I have to take vitamins? Should I exercise after weight loss surgery? Q. How do I know if I am eligible for weight loss surgery? A. The University of Chicago Medicine follows guidelines supported by the National Institutes of Health in order to determine a patient's eligibility for weight loss surgery. Rather than using weight, we use body mass index (BMI) as a criteria for surgery -- excess fat in relation to height. Individuals are candidates for surgery if: They have failed previous attempts at weight loss in a medically supervised program Their BMI is greater than 40 or between 35 and 40 with major obesity-related medical problems Before becoming eligible for surgery, you will meet with our surgeons, dietitians, psychologists, and members of our nursing staff for a full evaluation. Back to Top Q. Is weight loss surgery right for everyone? A. The short answer is no. Surgery is not a solution for everyone. We only determine whether a patient is right for surgery after a complete evaluation and discussion with the patient.  Because weight loss surgery is a life-altering procedure, we want to make sure our patients are committed to making the lifestyle changes needed for a successful procedure. Back to Top Q. What are the risks of weight loss surgery? A. All major surgery comes with risks, and the risks are different for each patient. At the University of Chicago Medicine, our surgeons have better outcomes than most hospitals. Our lifetime mortality rate is only 0.001 percent. During your first appointment, your surgeon will explain your individual risk level. Back to Top Q. How much weight will I lose? Will the weight loss be quick? A. The amount of weight you lose -- and how fast you lose it -- depends on which weight loss surgery you have.  Patients who have adjustable gastric banding (Lap-Band ® ) procedures usually lose weight more slowly the first year than those who have gastric bypass (RYGB) or duodenal switch procedures (DS), but total weight loss is comparable with each procedure. In our program the average patient loses between 68 to 78 percent of his or her excess body weight after RYGB or DS. Back to Top Q. Can I become pregnant after weight loss surgery? A. Women should avoid pregnancy for at least 18 months after surgery. Please discuss any pregnancy plans with your surgeon during one of your clinic appointments. Back to Top Q. Will my insurance cover the procedure? A. Insurance coverage depends on your insurance plan. For example, some insurance companies require a patient to be in a physician-supervised weight loss program for at least a year before surgery. Before you come in for your first appointment, please call your insurance company to find out if weight loss surgery is covered. The University of Chicago Medicine has an insurance coordinator who can help you after you are approved for surgery. Back to Top Q. If I am interested in weight loss surgery, what is my first step? A. If you are interested in weight loss surgery, please call us at (773) 834-3524. We will help you register for an information session where you will learn more about our program and our weight loss surgery options. Back to Top Q. What should I bring to my first appointment with the surgeon? A. When you come to your first appointment, please bring the following information: Social security number Insurance card Any paperwork needed by your insurance carrier (managed care referral authorization, for example) Any past medical records A list of your current medications A hand written food diary A letter from your primary care doctor acknowledging your interest in surgical weight loss Back to Top Q. Where is my first appointment? A. We offer appointments at two convenient locations. You can see our physicians at the Duchossois Center for Advanced Medicine on our main medical campus in Hyde Park, or at our office in Matteson, Illinois. Back to Top Q. What happens during the first appointment? A. Plan to be at your first appointment for about three hours. The program will be presented to you in a group setting. Then, in private, the surgeon or nurse practitioner will perform an extensive history and physical. Depending on scheduling, our dietitian and psychologist may also see you at this appointment. Back to Top Q. After the first appointment, how long will it take before I have surgery? A. This depends on your insurance provider and the criteria they require, as well as the tests and requirements our team finds necessary. Back to Top Q. How long will I have to stay in the hospital after surgery? A. Your hospital stay will depend on the type of weight loss surgery you have. Generally, hospital stays are between one and three days. Back to Top Q. How long will I be off of work after surgery? A. Again, your time off of work will depend on the type of weight loss surgery you have. After Lap-Band ® surgery, you can return to work in about one-week. The gastric bypass (RYGB) and duodenal switch (DS) procedures average a two- to four-week recuperation. Back to Top Q. Will I continue seeing my primary care physician after surgery? A. Yes. Because your medical condition will change following weight loss surgery, it is essential that you are closely monitored by your primary care doctor.  We will keep him or her informed on your progress. Back to Top Q. What if I have excess skin? A. As you start losing weight, you may notice excess skin. The amount of excess skin you experience is due to your weight loss, age, and smoking habits.  Sometimes, patients choose to have plastic surgery to have this skin removed. We have a surgeon who works very closely with our patients regarding plastic surgery. Back to Top Q. Will I have to take vitamins? A. Yes, but the number depends on your weight loss procedure. The gastric bypass (RYGB) and duodenal switch (DS) procedures require a lifetime of vitamin supplementation -- usually three supplements daily. The Lap-Band ® requires a multivitamin everyday. Back to Top Q. Should I exercise after weight loss surgery? A. Regular exercise is extremely important for maintaining your weight loss. Your bariatric surgery team will help you with the types of exercise you should be doing, and how soon after surgery you should start doing them. Back to Top UCH_009191 (13) More Information Why Choose Us? Surgical Options FAQ Meet Our Team Patient Resources Bariatric Surgery Information Session Appointments New patients: call (773) 834-3524 to register for an information session More information Returning patients: call (773) 834-3524 Find a physician UCH_009192 (8) Video Vivek Prachand, MD, is featured in a series of video interviews about vertical sleeve gastrectomy , what types of patients are appropriate for bariatric weight-loss surgery, common myths surrounding the procedure, and the importance of follow-up care. View more videos UCH_024461 (1) Treatments Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass Laparoscopic biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch Laparoscopic adjustable gastric band Laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy UCH_004597 (8) Related Links Bariatric Surgery Information Session Minimally Invasive Weight Loss Surgery John Alverdy, MD Vivek Prachand, MD Mustafa Hussain, MD Andreas Mykoniatis, MD Kristen Anderson, LCSW, MA Gastrointestinal Disorders Sleep Disorders Center Section of General Surgery Patient Information Guide (PDF) UCH_007520 (17) Online Library Surgical care Surgical treatment for obesity Patients & Visitors Request an Appointment Find a Physician Off-Site Clinic Locations Directions & Maps Visitation Guidelines Medical Records Requests Pay Your Bill Financial Assistance Patient Relations International Patients Quality JCAHO Public Notice Specialties & Departments Cancer Care Gastrointestinal Disorders Heart Care Neurosciences Pediatrics Surgery More Specialties Online Health Library Informacion en Espanol Medical Professionals Refer a Patient Contact a Department Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Grand Rounds & Events Calendar Nursing Careers Related Sites Pritzker School of Medicine Biological Sciences Division University of Chicago Recovery Act Funding (ARRA) UChicagoTech News & Community Science Life Blog Patient Stories Nurses In the News Newsroom Publications Medicine on the Midway Magazine Make a Gift Volunteer Contact Us Privacy Practices Legal Disclaimer Site Map Employee Login © 2012 The University of Chicago Medical Center. All rights reserved. The University of Chicago Medicine 5841 S. Maryland Avenue C