<http://www.freeasthmatreatmenttips.com/?p=1512>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Treating Allergies With Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture | Asthma Treatment Tips Home Sitemap Advertise with us Asthma Tags Asthma Care Asthma Facts Asthma Natural Treatment Asthma Relief Asthma Treatment Asthma Treatment Tips Cure Asthma Naturally Free Asthma Tips Treating Allergies With Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture People often wonder if Chinese medicine can help with seasonal allergies. Acupuncture and herbal therapy can not only help manage the symptoms of allergies, but can also help treat the root deficiency that prevents the body from being able to fight off allergens. Allergies, also known as seasonal hay fever, can affect millions of men and women every year and may be caused by mold, plant pollen, animal dandruff, and dust. Allergies may affect people either: • During a specific season – fall, spring, summer, or even winter • Or, year round (perennial allergies) Symptoms of hay fever, include, but are not limited to: • Sneezing • Watery eyes • Itching of the eyes or nose • Nasal congestion or runny nose • Headache • Coughing or wheezing • Insomnia Allergies can easily take you away from your normal activities and impose a strain on your life. The symptoms can cause missed work or school days, sleep disturbances, and the ability to perform normal activities. In Chinese medicine, allergies are generally caused by a mixed pattern of deficiency in the body. There is an internal deficiency that affects the body’s ability to fend of allergens. There is also an external pattern, which is the actual manifestation of the symptoms of allergies, such as runny nose and itchy eyes. To treat allergies with Chinese medicine, acupuncture may be used to help in the event of an acute attack and control the symptoms. Then, after the symptoms are under control, a customized herbal formula may be prescribed to help build up the internal deficiency to give the body has the resources it needs to fight the allergens off by itself. Additionally, a formula may include herbs to help control the symptoms of the allergies so you may continue on with your daily life. By treating both the internal and external patterns of allergies, Chinese medicine may reduce the intensity of your symptoms as well as prevent future occurrences. In addition to a customized formula, nutritional supplements as well as dietary recommendations can be made to help supplement the body and prevent future occurrences. The body’s root ability to fend off allergies starts with getting the right nutrients to support a healthy immune system. By using Chinese medicine and acupuncture to treat allergies, patients may be able to dramatically reduce the symptoms during the specific season they occur or may be able to get rid of them completely. This allows you to return to work, school, and the other priorities in your life. By: Nicholas LaFasto About the Author: If you are looking for a Denver Acupuncture clinic, please click the link to visit Nicholas LaFasto’s website. Nicholas is a licensed acupuncturist and herbalist practicing in Centennial, Colorado, in the South Metro area of Denver. Treating Allergies With Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture Related posts: Chinese Medicine Treats Seasonal Allergies Acupuncture & Chinese Herbal Medicine = Allergy Relief Asthma treatment with Chinese Medicine (Acupuncture, Qi Gong, Nutrition etc) Asthma treatment with Chinese Medicine (Acupuncture, Qi Gong, Nutrition etc) Chinese Medicine For Allergy – Misleading Concept Or Fact? Posted in Cure Asthma Naturally « Create Your Own Juice Recipes Asthma and Your Airways – What Other People Are Not Telling You About Asthma Treatments » You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is currently not allowed. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Categories Asthma Care Asthma Facts Asthma Natural Treatment Asthma Relief Asthma Treatment Asthma Treatment Tips Cure Asthma Naturally Free Asthma Tips Recent Posts Pulse Oximeter Types For Veterinarians, Athletes, Asthma Sufferers, And Newborns N-Acetyl-l-Cysteine – NAC is the Most Unknown Vital Nutrient For Our Lungs Probiotics And Acid Reflux – Marriage Made In Heaven? Acupressure – The Practice of Acupressure How to Use an Metered Dosed Inhaler (MDI) For Asthma Properly Recent Comments Copyright © Asthma Treatment Tips - Get Free Asthma Treatment Tips - Advertise with us Powered by WordPress | Designed by: Themes Gallery . | Thanks to WordPres