
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 17:51:50 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.42 (Unix) mod_auth_tkt/2.1.0 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.8r
X-Pingback: http://www.emperors.edu/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Emperor's College  » XNKQ Acupuncture Therapy » Print - Emperor's College - http://www.emperors.edu - XNKQ Acupuncture Therapy Posted By Nina On July 21, 2011 @ 7:16 pm In Clinic | No Comments The Xing Nao Kai Qiao (XNKQ) acupuncture protocol was developed in the early 1970s by Dr. Shi Xue Min at Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, China, and has proven to be extremely effective in the treatment of stroke patients , as well as stroke prevention for those at risk. Xing Nao Kai Qiao translates as “awakening the brain and opening the orifices” which means regaining brain functions. Xing Nao Kai Qiao differs from ordinary acupuncture stroke therapies in that it employs acupuncture points that have been specifically formulated to address the root problems associated with stroke and dementia. Since 1972, over two million stroke patients have been treated at the First Teaching Hospital of Tianjin University using the XNKQ method. XNKQ Fast Facts Over 2 million stroke patients have been treated with XNKQ at Tianjin Hospital in China since 1972. According to clinical researchers, the earlier XNKQ acupuncture therapy is used, the better curative effect can be achieved. Compared  to other acupuncture therapies, XNKQ therapy has proven to greatly  increase the cure rate and decrease disablement rate. Source: Shi Xue Min, Medical Journal of the Chinese People’s Armed Police Forces, Vol. 14, No. 05, 2003 The Xing Nao Kai Qiao stroke rehabilitation & prevention protocol has gained recognition in the United States through the documentary 9000 Needles . Due to lack of rehabilitation options using acupuncture in the United States, stroke patient Devin Dearth travels to China with his family where he participates in an integrative stroke rehabilitation program at the First Teaching Hospital of Tianjin University. The tremendous improvements in his condition are sheer testament to the effectiveness of XNKQ. XNKQ in the US Inspired by the documentary 9000 Needles , XNKQ stroke specialist Atsuki Maeda, LAc , started looking for an opportunity to introduce this effective acupuncture treatment in the United States. “My goal is to make this therapy available to as many stroke and dementia patients in the US as possible,” said Atsuki Maeda, LAc. “I wanted to find a way to respond to the recent demand for rehabilitation options and preventive treatments in stroke care.” XNKQ Fast Facts In a case study with 9,005 patients, a very substantial improvement occurred in 59% of the cases and overall some positive effects were noted in 98% of the cases. Xing Nao Kai Qiao stands for “awakening the brain and opening the orifice.” Source: Du Li, LAc, OMD, Treatment of Stroke with Acupuncture (Acupuncture-expert.com) Emperor’s College and Maeda teamed up and introduced the Xing Nao Kai  Qiao Stroke Rehabilitation & Prevention training into the school’s  doctoral program. The Stroke and Dementia Care Center in Emperor’s  College Acupuncture Clinic is the focal point of the training as  doctoral interns learn XNKQ acupuncture therapy under  Maeda’s supervision. “One in ten Americans has experienced  acupuncture today,” said Maeda. “This society is ready for the true integration of Eastern and Western medicine when it comes to innovative  stroke care.” Resources Stroke Acupuncture in the Media Innovative Stroke Rehabilitation Acupuncture: The Benefits of Integrative Therapy , Huffington Post, September 2011 Realizing a Life Long Dream , Acupuncture Today, October 2011 Paralyzed Man Walks Again , Men’s Health, October 2011 Alternative Stroke Therapy Clinic Opens in Santa Monica , Santa Monica Daily Press, August 2011 Stroke Expert Realizes Dream , AcuTake, June 2011 XNKQ-related Literature Dr. Shi Xue Min’s article on the efficacy of XNKQ therapy A Clinical Study on Acupuncture using the Xing Nai Kai Qiao Method to Treat Stroke Patients by 1st Affiliated Hospital of Tianjin College of TCM, China Article printed from Emperor's College: http://www.emperors.edu URL to article: http://www.emperors.edu/2011/07/xnkq-acupuncture-therapy/ Click here to prin