
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 18:08:17 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.12 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10-2ubuntu6.4
Expires: Thu, 08 Jul 2010 23:30:27 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate, max-age=0
X-Ua-Compatible: IE=EmulateIE8
Etag: "9cebde3b66b41065de404ecf3a00e194"
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Set-Cookie: EBBALANCERID=balancer.eb-www3; path=/; domain=.easybloom.com
Via: 1.0 eb-proxy4.plantsense.com
Connection: close

EasyBloom :: Medicinal Aloe - Aloe vera :: Detailed Plant Information Sign in | Register Learn Buy Plant Library My EasyBloom Overview Find THAT Plant http://www.easybloom.com/plantlibrary/plant/medicinal-aloe Photo Credit: National Gardening Association Click on any photo for a larger view. Interesting Facts Aloe was first used by the Ancient Egyptians as an element to preserve dead bodies. The effectiveness of the popular species Aloe vera as a wound healer is still controversial.  While some evidence suggests that A. vera enhances the rate of healing, others state that it in fact slows down the process.  In any case, Aloe vera is used widespread as an herbal medicine.  Be warned against excessive ingestion, however, as A. vera can become toxic and has been known to cause kidney dysfunction and hepatitis among other problems. Medicinal Aloe ( Aloe vera ) Barbados Aloe First Aid Plant Aloe vera are clustering rosettes of narrow, fleshy, stiffly upright, lance-like leaves 1 to 2 feet long. They bear yellow flowers in dense spike atop 3 feet stalk in spring and summer seasons. It is a favorite folk medicine plant used to treat burns, bites, and inflammation. Plant Types: Interior Plant, Perennial, Succulent Light: Shade to Full Sun Height: 1 foot to 2 feet Width: 1 foot to 3 feet Zones: 10a to 15b Bloom Color: Orange, Yellow Bloom Seasons: Early spring, Mid spring, Late spring, Early summer, Mid summer, Late summer, Early fall, Mid fall, Late fall, Early winter, Mid winter, Late winter Leaf Color: Green, Silvery, Variegated Special Features: Attractive foliage, Naturalizing, Not North American native Shape: Rounded, Upright or erect Fertilizer: Miracle-Gro® Water Soluble All Purpose Plant Food Want to know where Medicinal Aloe will thrive in your house or garden?               The EasyBloom Plant Sensor will give you a plant's-eye view of your               environment to measure soil, sunlight, temperature and humidity. Watch a Video > Learn More > Buy EasyBloom > Plant Care Planting: They do very well as indoor or outdoor potted plants, but should be protected from frost and very low temperatures. Plant Growth: Aloe should be planted in a place where it will get full sun or light shade. Aloe should also be protected from frost.  All species grow in clumps of varying sizes, all with fleshy, pointy leaves surrounding a cluster of flowers. Blooming: Flowers cluster in the center of the plant.  They can come in a number of colors, including red, cream, orange or yellow. Soil and Irrigation: Aloe requires well-drained soil with little to moderate water. Pests: Mealybugs.  Prone to scale and fungal stem and leaf rots. / About Us | News | Blog | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Support | Forum | Media © 2012 PlantSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. PlantSense is a registered trademark of PlantSense, 