
Dental Health

 - Wood County Wisconsin Wood County Home Board of Supervisors Departments Municipalities Office Locations Local Links Employees Search Committees Meeting Schedules Meeting Minutes Wood County Redistricting Aging & Disability Resource Center Child Support Enforcement Clerk of Courts Corporation Counsel County Clerk Dispatch Center (911) District Attorney Edgewater Haven Nursing Home Emergency Management Employee Wellness Finance Department Health Department Highway Department Housing Rehabilitation Human Resources Human Services Land Conservation Maintenance & Purchasing Norwood Health Center Park and Forestry Planning & Zoning Register of Deeds Safety & Risk Management Sheriff Social Services Systems Department (IT) Treasurer's Office Unified Services UW Extension County Veterans Service Office Victim Witness Services Login Health Department - Dental Health The most chronic infectious disease among children today is tooth decay. Tooth decay
                    can threaten a child's health and well-being. According to Oral Health America: A Report of the Surgeon General , the biggest problems
                    are access to care, expense, and lack of preventive devices. Healthy Smiles for Wood County operates under the direction of the Wood County Health
                    Department. It has a primary focus on prevention. The program addresses prevention
                    though outreach, education, fluoride varnish placement, sealant placement and systems
                    change. The program is a school-based, school-linked dental sealant and fluoride
                    varnish program in which portable dental equipment is taken to area schools and
                    early childhood centers. Children's teeth are screened and then sealants or fluoride
                    varnish are placed on appropriate teeth. Healthy Smiles for Wood County is the only population based sealant and fluoride
                    varnish program within Wood County. One of the successes of the Healthy Smiles for
                    Wood County program is that it allows for collaboration to assist and locate restorative
                    services for individuals with barriers to dental care. Funding is provided for this program through state and local grants and donations.
                    Current funding providers of the Healthy Smiles for Wood County program include: Children's Health Alliance Community Foundation of South Wood County Delta Dental Plan of Wisconsin, Inc. Dr. O'Leary Elks Ladies of Elks Lodge 693 First Congregational Church UCC Community Outreach Fund: Community Foundation of
                        Greater South Wood County Healthy Smiles for Wisconsin John and Judy Steele Fund: Community Foundation of Greater South Wood County J & L Uniforms Local Dentists, Hygienists, and Assistants Marshfield Area United Way Marshfield Clinic Care Management Ministry Foundation - St. Joseph's Hospital Parent and Community Volunteers Umhoefer Foundation United Way of Inner Wisconsin Wisconsin Dental Association Foundation Wisconsin Department of Health Services Wood County Health Department Department Menu Health Department About Us Health Alerts Family Health Dental Health Immunization Infant Massage Injury Prevention Women, Infants & Children (WIC) Community Health Inspection & Licensing Public Health Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health Health Laws & Rules Calendar of Events Contact Us Publications Healthy Smiles for Wood County Sealant Statistics (Excel) Healthy Smiles for Wood County Fluoride Varnish Statistics (Excel) Healthy Smiles Brochure Fluoride Varnish Brochure Seal-a-Smile Brochure Links Oral Health America Wisconsin Oral 