< 0.001), ranging from 0.66 after the first year to 0.93 after the fifth intervention year. Substantial reductions in notified malaria cases were reported in South Africa and Swaziland over the same period. The success of the program in reducing malaria transmission throughout the target area provides a strong argument for investment in regional malaria control. [author abstract] [ American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene , 76(1), 2007, pp. 42–47] Traditional Medicine: Swaziland Plants are used extensively in Swazi traditional medicine. In the 1970s, the Department of Chemistry at the University of Swaziland decided to examine the scientific basis for this traditional medical system. In the process of researching drugs derived from medicinal plants, researchers began to understand the important cultural heritage that supported this system. The work has involved analyses of medicinal plants collected by rural people familiar with the traditional medical system. A key part of the studies are the ethnobotanical surveys of medicinal plants administered by traditional medical practitioners (TMP's) and the taxonomic identification of plant species by taxonomists with the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. Chemical screening and extraction of possible active constituents is also conducted with TMPs as an integral part of the laboratory team… Today, this work is housed in the Swaziland Center for Research in Medicinal and Indigenous Food Plants. As a result of the center's research on medicinal plants, the scientific bases of the use of traditional plants for therapeutic purposes has been established. [author abstract] [ Sharing Innovative Experiences , Vol.7, 2001: Conservation and Wise Use of Indigenous and Medicinal Plants] ^ Back to top Educational Resources CDC - Travel Information : Southern Africa Report Card – HIV Prevention for Girls and Young Women: Swaziland "This report card aims to provide a summary of HIV prevention for girls and young women in Swaziland. This Report Card is one in a series produced by the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), under the umbrella of the Global Coalition on Women and AIDS, and with the support of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Young Positives. The Report Card is an advocacy tool. It aims to increase and improve the programmatic, policy and funding actions taken on HIV prevention for girls and young women in Swaziland. Its key audiences are national, regional and international policy and decision-makers, and service providers. It builds on global policy commitments, particularly those outlined in the Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS from the 2 June 2006 High-Level Meeting, to follow up on the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on AIDS (UNGASS). The Report Card summarizes the current situation of HIV prevention strategies and services for girls and young women ages 15-24 years in Swaziland. It contains an analysis of five key components that influence HIV prevention, namely: 1. Legal provision; 2. Policy provision; 3. Availability of services; 4. Accessibility of services; [and] 5. Participation and rights. It also provides recommendations for key stakeholders to enhance action on HIV prevention strategies and services for girls and young women in Swaziland. The Report Card is the basis of extensive research carried out during 2007 by IPPF, involving both desk research on published data and reports, and in-country research in Swaziland to provide more qualitative information. This research is detailed in full within a 'Research Dossier on HIV Prevention for Girls and Young Women in Swaziland’(available on request from IPPF)." [c2007] UNAIDS/WHO Epidemiological Fact Sheets on HIV and AIDS, 2008 Update – Swaziland ^ Back to top Original website founded Lucien E. Schlosser and Eberhard Wenzel, 1997. © Copyright for the The WWW Virtual Library and its logos by The WWW Virtual Library . See Also History of VL: PH How to Contribute Join our mailing list The VL: PH site is maintained by the School of Public Health and Community Medicine . Dedicated to the memory of Eberhard Wenzel (1950-2001) Printer Friendly Page Privacy Policy Copyright & Disclaimer Accessibility Online Enquiry School of Public Health and Community Medicine - UNSW - Faculty of Medicine NSW 2052 Australia | Tel: +61 (2) 9385 2517 Fax: +61 (2) 9313 6185 © Copyright 2005 UNSW Faculty of Medicine | CRICOS Provider Code: 00098G | ABN 57 195 873 179    | Authorised by Head of School Page Last Update