Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Cancer Racket My article was originally published in the February/March issue of "Clamor" 
        magazine under the title "Can You Trust Your 
        Doctor?." I have made a few small changes and additions, but it remains 
        95% the same as the one published. It took me at least 100 hours to research 
        and write it. Feel free to print it, e-mail it, post to websites/discussion 
        forums or anywhere else for that matter, non-commercially, unchanged and 
        giving my website as the source. Thank you. Gavin Phillips. "The 
        Cancer Racket" By Gavin Phillips “Everyone should know that most cancer research is largely a fraud…” - Linus Pauling Ph.D. (1901-1994) Two times Nobel Prize winner. By the time that you 
        have finished reading this article, eleven Americans will have died from 
        cancer. This year, about 1.2 million Americans will be diagnosed with 
        cancer and some 560,000 will die from it.  The rates have doubled in less 
        than forty years. In 1971 President Nixon declared the famous "war 
        on cancer". Thirty years and some thirty billion research dollars 
        later we are still being prescribed the same three failing treatments; 
        surgery, chemotherapy and radiation treatment. Why? Three 
        Case Studies My answer begins with 
        a synopsis of three alternative treatments that have been  suppressed 
        for decades by orthodox medicine. First, I must stress that none of these 
        treatments is a guaranteed cancer cure. Some work better with one person 
        than another, depending on the type of cancer. A vitally important role 
        is one of a strict nutritional diet. Royal Raymond Rife The first story is about the Rife radio frequency machine. 
        Royal Raymond Rife was born 1888, in Elkhorn, Nebraska. Rife’s passions 
        were microscopes, microbiology, and electronics. What is an undisputed 
        fact is Rife’s genius in building incredibly complex light microscopes. 
        Roy built five in total, the largest and most powerful was his "Universal 
        Microscope" made with just over 5,200 parts. Electron microscopes 
        today are more powerful but they kill the minute organisms Rife was attempting 
        to see. You have to be able to see them alive in order to identify them 
        and, more importantly, identify what kills them. Rife's "Universal 
        Microscope." It took Rife about twelve years, between 1920-1932, 
        to isolate the cancer microbe. He named it the BX virus. Rife began subjecting 
        the cancer microbe to different radio frequencies to see if it was affected 
        by them. After experimenting for thousands of hours, Rife discovered what 
        he called the “Mortal Oscillatory Rate” of the cancer microbe. Simply, 
        the exact frequency that killed it. Rife successfully cured cancer in 
        over 400 experimental animals before testing was ready for humans. Dr. Millbank Johnson, 
        a close friend of Rife’s, setup the Special Medical Research Committee 
        to witness what transpired at this first clinic. In the summer of 1934, 
        sixteen terminally ill cancer patients were given three minutes of the 
        frequency every day. They soon learned that this was too much because 
        the human body needed more time to dispose of the dead toxins. They were 
        given three minutes every third day.  Fourteen of the supposedly terminally 
        ill patients were clear of cancer and healthy when the clinic closed after 
        three months. The other two patients were pronounced cured one month after 
        the clinic closed. There were very minimal, if any, short term side-effects. Rife wrote in 1953; "16 cases were treated at the clinic for many 
        types of malignancy. After 3 months, 14 of these so-called hopeless cases 
        were signed off as clinically cured by the staff of five medical doctors 
        and Dr. Alvin G. Foord, M.D. Pathologist for the group." In 1937 Rife and some 
        colleagues established a company called Beam Ray. They  manufactured fourteen 
        Frequency Instruments. Dr. James Couche, who was present at the clinic, 
        used one of Rife’s machines with great success for 22 years. The 
        most powerful man in medicine at this time was Dr. Morris Fishbein. He 
        was chief editor of the American Medical Associations (AMA) Journal.  
        Fishbein had failed anatomy and never treated a patient in his life. His 
        only motivation was money and power.  He decided which drugs were to be 
        sold to the public based solely on the drug manufacturers willingness 
        to pay the advertising rates that he set. Fishbein heard about Rife's 
        frequency machine and wanted to buy a share. The offer was refused. He 
        then offered Phil Hoyland, an investor, legal assistance to enable him 
        to steal the company from Rife and the other investors. A lawsuit ensued. The 
        trial of 1939 put an end to any proper scientific investigation of the 
        Frequency Instrument. The trial was the undoing of Rife. Not used to being 
        savagely attacked in open court he crumbled under the pressure. Although 
        he won the case, he turned to alcohol and became an alcoholic.  Fishbein 
        used his pervasive power within the AMA to thwart further investigation 
        of Rife's work. Dr. Millbank Johnson died in 1944. In 1950  Rife joined 
        up with John Crane who was an electrical engineer. They worked together 
        for ten years building more advanced frequency machines. But in 1960 the 
        AMA closed them down. Crane was imprisoned for three years and a month, 
        even though fourteen patients testified as to the effectiveness of the 
        machine. Rife died in 1971. Amygdalin/Laetrile In 1952 Dr. Ernst Krebs from San Francisco advanced 
        the theory that cancer is a deficiency disease, similar to scurvy or pellagra. 
        His theory was that the cause of the disease was the lack of an essential 
        food compound in modern-man’s diet. He identified it as part of the nitriloside 
        family which is found in over 1200 edible plants. Nitriloside, generally 
        referred to as amygdalin, is especially prevalent in the seeds of apricot, 
        blackthorn cherry, nectarine, peach, apples and others. The best way for Krebs to prove his theory would be 
        to have thousands of people eat a diet very high in amygdalin and monitor 
        them. An enormously costly exercise to say the least. Fortunately for 
        Krebs, the experiment had already been carried out. Nestled between W. 
        Pakistan, India and China is the tiny kingdom of Hunza. The people of 
        Hunza consume 200 times more amygdalin in their diet than the average 
        American. Visiting medical teams found them cancer free. In 1973 Prince 
        Mohammed Khan, son of the Mir of Hunza told Charles Hillinger of the LA 
        Times the average age of his people is about 85. More importantly, they 
        live vigorous and mentally alert lives up until a few days before they 
        die. Only in recent years 
        have the first few Hunza cancer cases been reported. That is due to a 
        narrow road being carved in the mountain and food from the "civilized" 
        world is reaching Hunza. In the 1970s the FDA mounted a widespread and 
        erroneous media campaign alleging  that amygdalin is toxic and dangerous 
        because it contains cyanide. Yes, it does, in minute quantities. If you 
        eat the seeds from a hundred apples in a day you risk serious side effects, 
        possibly death.  If you eat enormous amounts of anything you run serious 
        health risks.  Aspirin is twenty times more toxic than the same amount 
        of amygdalin. Orthodox medicine says that Laetrile (a purified form 
        of amygdalin developed by Dr. Krebs) was thoroughly tested and found to 
        be worthless. The longest and most famous Laetrile tests ever performed 
        were run for nearly five years at Americas most prestigious cancer research 
        center, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. At the conclusion 
        of the trials, on June 15, 1977, they released a press statement. The 
        press release read; "...Laetrile was found to possess neither preventative, 
        nor tumor-regressent, nor anti-metastatic, nor curative anticancer activity." So that is it then, right? It does not get more adamant 
        than that, we can close the book on Laetrile. Unfortunately for the officials 
        at Sloan-Kettering there was an unforeseen problem. When a journalist 
        asked Dr. Kanematsu Sugiura; "Do you stick 
        by your belief  that Laetrile stops the spread of cancer"? He replied, "I stick." Those two words were a major embarrassment to the accumulated 
        demigods on the dais. The reason being is that Dr. Kanematsu Sugiura was 
        the preeminent cancer researcher in America, probably the world, at this 
        time. Nobody had ever questioned Sugiura’s data in over sixty years of 
        cancer research before. Sugiura was asked why Sloan-Kettering was against 
        Laetrile. "Why are they so much against it"? Sugiura answered "I don't know. Maybe the medical profession doesn't 
        like it because they are making too much money." Sugiura had to be proven wrong. But other researchers 
        had obtained essentially the same positive results. Dr. Lloyd Schloen 
        a biochemist at Sloan-Kettering had included proteolytic enzymes to his 
        injections and reported 100% cure rate among his albino mice. This data 
        had to be buried. They then changed the protocols of the tests and amounts 
        of Laetrile to make certain that they failed. Not surprisingly, they failed, 
        and that is what they reported. Sloan-Kettering’s 
        motives were clearly revealed in the minutes of a meeting that top officials 
        held on July 2, 1974. The discussions were private and candid. The fact 
        that numerous Sloan-Kettering officials were convinced of the effectiveness 
        of amygdalin is obvious, they just were not sure as to the degree of it's 
        effectiveness. But they were not interested in further testing of this 
        natural product.  The minutes read; "...Sloan-Kettering is not enthusiastic about 
        studying amygdalin [Laetrile] but would like to study CN (cyanide)-releasing 
        drugs." Sloan-Kettering wanted a man-made patentable chemical 
        to mimic the qualities found in amygdalin, because that is where the money 
        is. If a very effective cancer treatment or cure was found in the lowly 
        apricot seed, it would spell economic disaster for the cancer industry. The 
        Hoxsey Remedies Harry Hoxsey, born 
        1901,  was an ex-coalminer with an 8th grade education. From the 1920s 
        to the 1950s Harry Hoxsey and his natural remedies would wage the fiercest 
        battle with conventional medicine this country has ever seen. The remedies 
        were handed down by Harry's great grandfather, John Hoxsey.  John, a veterinarian, 
        had observed a horse he owned heal itself of cancer by eating certain 
        herbs in his pasture. John used the herbs to heal other animals of cancer. Over the years other 
        natural products were added and the remedy was tried on humans. The Hoxsey 
        treatment comprised of two components. A herbal tonic which cleansed the 
        body and boosted the immune system and an external paste for tumors outside 
        the body. Harry opened his first clinic in Dallas in 1924. By 1950 he 
        was the largest privately owned cancer clinic in America, represented 
        in  seventeen States.  Although thousands of cancer patients swore that 
        Hoxsey had cured them of cancer, Harry was branded a "quack" 
        and charlatan by the medical community. Dallas District Attorney, 
        Al Templeton, detested Hoxsey and arrested him an unprecedented one hundred 
        times in two years. Hoxsey would bail himself out  within a day or two 
        because Templeton could never persuade any of Harry's patients to testify 
        against him. Templeton vowed to put Hoxsey away for good, until his own 
        brother secretly used the Hoxsey therapy. His cancer disappeared and Templeton 
        gave Hoxsey the credit.  In a startling about face, Al Templeton became 
        Hoxsey’s lawyer and one of his greatest advocates. In 1939, Esquire magazine 
        writer James Wakefield Burke was asked to write a piece on Hoxsey and 
        expose him as a quack.  James recalls; “ I came to Texas, I expected to stay about a day, get 
        my information, and leave. I became fascinated. I stayed for six weeks, 
        every day Harry would pick me up, bring me to the clinic. “...He would put his arm around these old men and woman, 
        say, “Dad, them doctors been cutting you up, I aint gonna let them sons-o-bitches 
        kill you...He’d treat them and they’d get better and begin to get well.” James wrote an article entitled, “The Quack That Cured 
        Cancer,” but Esquire did not publish it. The late Mildred Nelson treated 
        people with the Hoxsey method for some fifty years, but initially she 
        also thought Hoxsey was a fraud. Mildred’s mother, Della, had contracted 
        uterine cancer and orthodox medicine had given up on her. Mildred’s mother 
        and father wanted to try the Hoxsey treatment. Mildred recalls trying 
        to talk them out of it; “...I thought well, I’ll talk mum out of it you know...they 
        didn’t budge. So I thought, well, I’ll go down there and see what’s going 
        on, then I can get them out of it.” “I called Harry and asked him if he still needed a nurse, 
        “I sure do, be here in the morning.” ...By the end of a year I began to 
        realize, gee this does help, mum had gotten better and to this day is 
        alive and sassy as can be.” Mildred Nelson and James Burke had done something the 
        National Cancer Institute has never done; investigate Hoxsey and his treatments 
        first hand. They found him to be a caring and effective healer who was 
        not profiting from cancer patients. Harry had swore on his fathers death 
        bed that everyone would have access to the remedy, regardless of their 
        ability to pay. As Harry said; “I don’t have to do this kind of work, I’ve got more 
        oil wells than a lot of men call themselves big producers...Any man that 
        would traffic on sick, dying, limp the lame or the blind caused from cancer 
        is the worst scoundrel on earth.” Still, the Hoxsey treatment does not work for everybody. 
        Ironically, Hoxsey himself contracted prostate cancer, but had to resort 
        to surgery when his remedies did not work for him. It was not long before 
        the infamous Morris Fishbein of the AMA heard about the Hoxsey treatment 
        and wanted to buy sole rights to it, with some other AMA doctors. Hoxsey 
        would only agree if it stated in the contract that everyone would have 
        access to the treatments, not just a wealthy few. Fishbein refused and 
        so began a 25 year battle, fought in the media, between Fishbein and Hoxsey. The mudslinging culminated 
        in a lawsuit brought by Hoxsey against Fishbein.  Much to everyone’s amazement, 
        Hoxsey won the case. Even so, in the late 1950’s the FDA closed down all 
        of Hoxsey’s clinics. Mildred Nelson took the treatment to Tijuana Mexico 
        in 1963.  Mildred treated thousands of patients with cancer until her 
        death (her sister has taken over) in 1999. By all accounts, Mildred was 
        one of the finest, most compassionate caregivers you are ever likely to 
        find. While thousands state that Mildred cured them of cancer and with 
        medical records to prove it, the National Cancer Institute turns a blind 
        eye. Please 
        click for Pt 2 E-mail 
        this sites address to someone and help spread the word Return 
        to the top of the page Please 
        