
Sweet! > Carondelet Health Network Carondelet
                Health Network Home | Maps | Contact | Careers Go Home › About Carondelet › Newsroom › News Articles Share |  Follow us News Articles August 03, 2010 Sweet! Carondelet St. Mary’s Hospital Wound Healing Center Uses Honey to Treat Wounds TUCSON, Ariz. – (August 3, 2010) – The latest state-of-the-art wound care treatment didn't come from a lab but from ancient Egyptian tombs containing remnants of honey used 5,000 years ago. Experts at the Carondelet St. Mary’s Hospital Wound Healing Center are using a specialized medical grade honey product called Medihoney™ which has been approved by the FDA for chronic and acute wounds such as diabetic foot ulcers and pressure ulcers. The wound dressings contain active leptospermum honey, a unique honey from New Zealand and Australia that has beneficial plant-derived properties. Recent tests have revealed that honey contains antibacterial agents and leptospermum honey yields more antibacterial activity than honey from outer sources. "Dressings made from leptospermum honey offer a two-fold benefit in wound healing: they help decrease bacteria and keep the wound moist to promote healing while also aiding our ability to remove unhealthy tissue around the wound," said Dr. Rhonda Quick, M.D., a vascular surgeon who serves as the Medical Director for St. Mary’s Hospital Wound Healing Center. The effects of the dressing last up to a week reducing the need for more frequent visits to the center. Medihoney™ dressings have been shown in several large randomized controlled studies to be effective on hard-to-heal wounds. They are among the highly specialized wound care methodologies and treatments offered at Carondelet Wound Healing Center which also include hyperbaric oxygen therapy, negative pressure wound therapy, bio-engineered tissues, biosynthetic dressings and growth factor therapies. Chronic wounds are those which have not healed or responded to previous treatments in 30 days. High risk groups such as the elderly and cancer survivors who have undergone radiation are often faced with slow-to-heal wounds. Other factors that effect healing include diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity and vascular disease. For more information on the treatment of chronic or infected wounds, contact Carondelet St. Mary’s Wound Healing Center located at 1802 W. St. Mary’s Road or call 520-205-7520. Carondelet Health Network, located in Tucson, Arizona, is a Catholic, nonprofit health care system dedicated to responding to the health care needs of Southern Arizonans. With a Mission to Heal, Carondelet was founded by the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carondelet 130 years ago. Carondelet Health Network facilities include Carondelet St. Mary's Hospital, Carondelet St. Joseph's Hospital and Tucson Heart Hospital in Tucson and Carondelet Holy Cross Hospital in Nogales, Arizona. Other Carondelet services include seventeen Carondelet Medical Group primary care locations, an ambulatory surgery center and various outpatient services. Carondelet Health Network is a ministry of Ascension Health, the nation's largest Catholic, non-profit health care system. In Fiscal Year 2009, Carondelet provided over $43 million (8.1 percent of its net revenue) in Community Benefit to improve the health of our community and increase access to health care. More information about Carondelet Health Network is available at www.carondelet.org. Current Articles | Archives | Search Tools Make a Donation Physician Directory Classes & Events Careers Resources Billing Assistance Hospitals & Locations Newborn Photos Contact Us Non-Patient Physician Portal Newsroom Vendors & Suppliers 2202 N. Forbes Blvd., Tucson, AZ | Maps
                        & Directions © 2009 Carondelet Health Network. All Rights Reserve