Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
Set-Cookie: mt=pagetitle=&rid=17119; path=/
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By-Plesk: PleskWin
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 14:50:11 GMT
Connection: close

Aloe Vera The Story of Natural Elements | Bath and Body Guide | Natural Ingredients | FAQs | Testimonials 0 Product(s) in cart | Total $0.00 | View cart 15% OFF all Orders with our Membership - FREE Spa Bath Pillow above $50 Aloe Vera Aloe Vera has long been known as a popular natural skin care product. This plant has been used as a natural body care for centuries and can be traced back to Ancient Egypt where it was given to deceased pharaohs as burial gifts. The plant is often called the "plant of immortality" because of its many health benefits. It is also known as the "lily of the desert" because it can be found growing in deserts and is valuable for health and beauty products. The sap from the aloe vera plant is often harvested to create body and skin care products. Aloe vera is added to many products for its calming effects, including lotions, make up, soaps, shampoos, and sunscreen. Aloe vera is said to have anti-aging benefits because it provides moisture to dry and cracked skin. It has also been used to heal open skin wounds. Because aloe vera has anti-inflammatory benefits, it is a great natural solution to acne. It can help reduce any swelling or redness associated with severe acne. Using aloe vera gel on specific blemishes as a spot treatment has shown significant improvement in reducing the size of the blemish, as well as overall redness to the skin. It may also be able to reduce the look of scars or facial abrasions. These anti-inflammatory benefits are not just limited to the use of body and skin care products. Aloe vera is also great for people who are suffering from arthritis. Arthritis sufferers can use aloe vera to ease the pain and pressure caused by swollen joints. All content protected by Walton Internet Law - Copyright strictly enforced - Do not reproduce without prior written permission Natural Elements Online Store Bath and Body Collections Tropical Lotions Body Washes Tropical Body Butters Tropical Body Oils Hawaiian Bath Salts Body Scrubs Hawaiian Shampoos Hawaiian Conditioners Hawaiian Perfumes Men's Bath and Body Products Hawaiian Sun Care Products Tropical Body Creams Coconut Soaps Tropical Bath Soaps Healing Surfer Salves Bath and Body Travel Bags Lip Balm Sticks Coconut Products Gardenia Products Mango Coconut Products Passion Fruit Products Pikake Products Plumeria Products Vanilla Products White Ginger Products Hawaiian Lotions Hawaiian Bath and Shower Gel Hawaiian Fragrances Hawaiian Natural Soaps Hawaiian Skin Scrubs Hawaiian Body Moisturizers Hawaiian Botanical Lotions Gift Baskets Membership Clearance Articles Hawaiian Natural Bath and Body Hawaiian Natural Skin Care Hawaiian Holistic Healing Learn About Hawaii Hawaiian History Discover Hawaii Hawaii Island by Island Customer Services Natural Elements Special Offer Natural Elements Policy Contact us Useful Links Sitemap Link to Us Advertise with Us ©