
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 23:30:11 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://bankershallchiropractic.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Calgary Chiropractor | Back Pain Why See A Chiropractor? . Back Pain Back pain has long been a reason why people seek out chiropractic care. Whether the symptoms have just started, or if you’ve been experiencing pain for years – chiropractic may be the answer you’re seeking. The all-natural, drug-free approach to dealing with back pain has been helping people get back to their active lifestyles and out of pain. Back pain can be classified by its location such as: •	Upper back – seven neck (cervical) vertebrae (known as C1-C7), •	Middle back – 12 upper back (thoracic) vertebrae (known as T1-T12), •	Lower back – five lower back (lumbar) vertebrae (known as L1-L5), •	Coccydynia – pain of the tailbone, sacrum and coccyx, a group of bones fused together at the base of the spine. •	Sciatica – a condition in which a herniated disc presses on the sciatic nerve, the largest nerve in the body that extends down the spinal column to its exit point in the pelvis and carries nerve fibers to the leg. Upper Back Pain Some of the more common medical conditions that can cause pain in the upper back include: •	Poor posture •	Back injury •	Whiplash •	Back strain •	Exertion •	Incorrect bending or lifting •	Large breasts •	Osteoporosis •	Spinal disc disease •	Ruptured spinal disc •	Referred back pain •	Heart disease Middle Back Pain Some of the possible causes of pain in the middle back include: •	Back injury •	Back strain •	Strained ligaments •	Strained back muscles •	Excessive exertion •	Excessive lifting Spinal diseases: •	Arthritis •	Spinal arthritis •	Scoliosis Internal organ medical disorders •	Pregnancy •	Gallbladder disease •	Heart disease •	Aneurysm •	Lung Disorders •	Pancreatitis •	Peptic ulcers •	Kidney infections Lower Back Pain Pain in the lower back is a problem that nearly everyone at some point in their lives have experienced. The lumbar region of the back, where most of the pain is felt, carries the weight of the upper body. It is the second most common health ailment in the United States, after headaches, and it is the most common cause of job-related disability leading to missed work. Pain in the lower back is also the most common cause of disability in people under the age 50, and billions of dollars are spent on its treatment, with more than half that money being spent on surgical treatment. Pain that is progressive and persists for more than 3 months is considered chronic pain. Acute pain usually lasts for shorter periods. The pain can range from a mild ache to excruciating agony. Many of the causes stem from stresses on the muscles and ligaments that support your spine. The pain can range from a mild ache to excruciating agony. Many of the causes stem from stresses on the muscles and ligaments that support your spine. Pain in the back could be caused by any one of the following medical conditions: 1. Back injuries such as: •	Entire Back strain •	Strained ligaments •	Injury to back muscles •	Strained individual back muscles •	Back muscle spasm •	Excessive exertion •	Excessive lifting •	Slipped disc •	Whiplash 2. Nerve Disorder such as neuritis which is the inflammation of nerve. 3. Spinal Disorders such as: •	Arthritis (joint inflammation) •	Osteoarthritis •	Scoliosis – a musculoskeletal disorder causing a sideways curvature of the spine, or backbone •	Osteoporosis – where the bones thin and weaken from calcium depletion. Common among women and men over 60 •	Cervical spondylosis •	Rickets – bone disease in children, caused by a vitamin D deficiency •	Osteomalacia – bone disease in adults, caused a vitamin D deficiency •	Spinal cancer 4. Referred pain of the back from internal organ disorders •	Abdominal disorders •	Back tumor •	Pancreatitis •	Ulcers •	Crohn’s disease 5. Referred pain of the back common to women: •	Period pain •	Pelvic inflammatory disease •	Uterus malposition •	Endometriosis •	Cervix, Ovarian and Uterine Cancers 6. Tuberculosis Treatment for Back Pain ( lower, middle and upper ) Most acute and chronic pain in the lower back can be treated without surgery. Treatment can involve: 1.	Over-the-counter pain relievers to reduce pain and anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce inflammation. 2.	Spinal manipulation – a “hands-on” approach. When pain does not respond to the above two treatments then the option of surgery may need to be considered. Chiropractic Treatment Chiropractic treatment focuses on spinal adjustment (manipulation) to restore proper spinal function and thereby reduce pain. Chiropractic treatment does not prescribe drugs nor use surgery in the treatment process. In addition to spinal adjustments the chiropractic treatment may also include ultrasound, electrical muscle stimulation and exercise. Muscle Relaxants  and Chiropractic Care The use of muscle relaxants are very common among patients suffering from acute low back pain. These relaxants refer to the group of medications and drugs that are used to treat muscle injury and pain. They help relax muscles, reduce muscle stiffness and ease muscular pain. There are two groups of relaxants: •	Spasmolytics: Skeletal-muscle-relaxants (SMR’s) -, are used to treat muscle injuries and reduce musculoskeletal pain and alleviate muscle spasms. •	Neuromuscular blockers: These are used during surgical procedures to cause temporary paralysis while the surgery is being performed. Examples of two widely used musculoskeletal relaxants used to treat acute, painful lower back pain are Skelaxin (metaxalone) and Robaxin (methocarbamol). Some Side Effects of Relaxant Medications Medical research has shown that pain medications can lead to increased gastrointestinal stress, allergic reactions, respiratory problems, liver toxicity and even kidney failure. Chiropractic Treatment for Lower Back Pain Recent medical research shows that chiropractic therapy is more effective than relaxant medications in treating lower back pain. For more on these findings, refer to: “Hoiriis KT, Pfleger B, McDuffie FC, et al. A randomized clinical trial comparing chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back pain. Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics 2004;27:388-398.” Chiropractic treatment often consists of adjustments of high-velocity, low-amplitude thrusts to the lumbar, pelvic or sacral spinal region. Some chiropractors may also recommend some life-style changes to include some exercise activity. If you suffer from lower back pain and would like to consider chiropractic treatment which is a non-medication treatment, we invite you to schedule an appointment with Dr. John Collins regarding your health. Call us at 403-243-0111. Home About The Doctors Why See A Chiropractor? Cold Laser Therapy Our Techniques Location Office Hours Contact Us Pati