
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 08:56:23 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.16 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
X-Pingback: http://www.aromatherapies.net/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Valerian Root Oil | Aromatherapy Massage Aromatherapy Massage Massage Treatments Using Natural Massage Oils Posts Tagged ‘valerian root oil’ Valerian Root Oil for Anxiety & Sleeplessness Thursday, January 6th, 2011 Valerian plant is a well-known herbal plant that has been used the medieval times. This plant is largely cultivated in most parts of Europe. Earlier, mostly the root was used for curing several ailments. However, today, most parts of the valerian plant are used for a number of medicinal purposes. One of the best valerian root uses is its ability ease mental strain and sleep disorders; valerian root induces sleep by soothing and calming the nerves. In fact, valerian root also helps with anxiety-related problems, and it is used by most aroma therapists to treat anxiety. Valerian root essential oil is extracted through the process of steam distillation. The oil content in the valerian roots is of the order of 1.5 % to 2 % only. Therefore, the oil yield is very small. Valerian root oil is yellow in color, with an unpleasant smell. In order to make it useable and to harness its therapeutic properties, valerian root oil is usually blended with other aromatic oils such as lavender essential oil and rose essential oil. Owing to its unique organic compounds, sometimes valerian root oil is referred to as the “all heal” oil. The most popular therapeutic uses of valerian root oil are as follows: Valerian root oil is widely used for the treatment of problems related to the nervous system such as emotional stress, sleeplessness, fits, seizures, and so on. It is believed by aroma therapists that valerian root can combat anxiety better than conventional sleep inducing drugs. This is primarily because regular intake of such drugs can lead to addiction; however, the intake of valerian root is not addictive. For this unique property, most health care providers prefer to use valerian root for anxiety and palpitation treatment. Subsequently, it also helps to reduce and maintain normal blood pressure. Valerian root oil is also a very good antispasmodic. Therefore, this oil finds wide use in the treatment of muscular spasms. It also provides relief from rheumatic and gout pains. If you suffer from recurring spasms or muscular cramps, a massage with this oil will help alleviate the pain. Valerian oil is also very beneficial for curing headaches resulting from colds and fever or even a migraine. Valerian oil can be applied on minor cuts, bruises, and burns as well. It is known to help prevent infection and hasten the healing process. Despite its many benefits, valerian root oil should be used strictly under medical supervision; this is because long contact with or exposure to this oil may result in numbness. Tags: valerian root anxiety , valerian root oil , valerian root sleep , valerian root uses Posted in Aromatherapy Oils | No Comments » Recent Posts Aromatherapy Essential Oils for Headaches Fragrance Oil Lamps | Scented Oil Lamps Bitter Almond Essential Oil and Extract Chocolate Essential Oil | Chocolate Fragrance Oil Musk Essential Oil | Musk Aromatherapy Archives July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 Categories Acupuncture Aromatherapy Aromatherapy Oils aromatherapy skin care Benefits Home Remedies Massage Therapy Treatments Tags acupressure acupressure massage acupuncture for weight loss acupuncture therapy acupuncture treatments anise oil uses Aromatherapy aromatherapy acne skin care aromatherapy aging skin treatment aromatherapy benefits aromatherapy essential oils aromatherapy for hair care aromatherapy for headaches aromatherapy massage aromatherapy natural skin care aromatherapy oil Aromatherapy Oils aromatherapy pain relief aromatherapy pimple treatment aromatherapy products aromatherapy skin care aromatherapy stress relief aromatherapy treatment aromatherapy uses aromathrapy for hair loss treatment back pain relief back pain treatment benefits of massage therapy best massage oils essential oils for pregnancy essential oils for wrinkles essential oil uses hair loss remedies headache relief indigestion treatment infertility cure infertility natural treatment massage essential oils massage oils massage techniques Massage Therapy relieve back pain treatment for mouth ulcers uses of aromatherapy uses of aromatherapy oils Search for: Meta Log in Entries RSS C