
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 01:50:43 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.8
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.8
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 01:50:44 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

International Travel & Health Vaccination Clinic - Vancouver Canada - Jet Lag Skip to navigation Skip to content Search: You are here: Home » Travel Tips » While You're Travelling » Jet Lag Navigation Home Our Services Large Groups Travel Supplies Contact Us Destinations North America Central America and Mexico Caribbean South America Europe Africa Middle East Asia Indian Subcontinent Australia and the South Pacific Diseases Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Typhoid Traveler's Diarrhea Yellow Fever African Sleeping Sickness Rabies Cholera Japanese Encephalitis Chicken Pox Meningococcal Meningitis Tick-borne Encephalitis Malaria Permethrine Chloroquine Malarone Doxycycline Mefloquine Primaquine Dengue and Dengue Haemorrhagic fever Travel Tips Before You Go Registration of Canadians Abroad Emergency Information Getting a Travel Visa Country Specific Travel Reports CIA World Facts Culturally Sensitive Clothing Advice The Pregnant Traveller Destination Specific Advice Yellow Fever and Malaria Information Nepal Travel - High Altitude African Safaris Advice for Hajj Pilgrims High Altitude Medical Advice Malaria Prevention Medical-Condition Specific Advice The Disabled Traveler The Diabetic Traveler Directory of Dialysis Centers While You're Travelling World Time Zones Traveler's Thrombosis Jet Lag Personal Safety Culture Shock Responsible Travel Tips When You Get Home Deferral Period for Blood Donation Other Health Information Sites Public Health Agency of Canada Health Canada World Health Organization US Disease Control and Prevention International Society of Travel Medicine WHO International Travel Health Travel Medicine Resource Website Other Useful Links Mapquest Maps Weather World Atlas International Adoption Travel Medicine Map Flu Vaccination Program Events and Promotions Links Tips on Jet Lag Most travelers have experienced jet lag. The common     symptoms—insomnia, fatigue, change in appetite, irritability.     After several days at your destination, your body's biological     clock (circadian rhythm) becomes reset, and the symptoms subside.     In general, it takes the body one day to adjust for each time zone     crossed. On long haul flights it will take 2 weeks for all body     functions to revert to normal. Proposed Remedies Like many disorders that have no cure, there are lots of proposed     jet lag remedies and preventatives. Numerous travelers have tried     jet lag “diets.” More recently, exposure to artificial     light sources and melatonin have been touted as being effective     in resetting the body's clock. Diets Despite their apparent popularity, there is no scientific evidence     that jet lag diets do any good. Light Exposure Light exposure seems to play a role in resetting circadian rhythms.     The mechanism involves suppression of the hormone melatonin, which     is secreted by the brain's pineal gland. The current dogma is that for eastward travel additional morning     sunlight (whether cloudy or not) is beneficial, whereas for westward     travel, afternoon light is important. Special high intensity lights     (>10,000 lux) are available to help accomplish this end. Regardless     of travel destination and arrival time, recent studies suggest that     exposure to outdoor light at any time of day assists in readjustment     of your circadian rhythm. Melatonin Placebo-controlled studies have shown that the hormone melatonin     can reset your body's internal clock. In one study, travelers     experienced much less fatigue, required less time to normalize their     sleep patterns on melatonin. Some other studies, however, have shown     no significant beneficial effect. Adverse effects included headache and excessive drowsiness. In summary,     melatonin appears to be somewhat beneficial, but there's much     individual variation in response to this hormone. Concerns have     been raised about melatonin's safety since the drug's     strength, quality, and purity are not standardized. Also, there     are little data on optimal dosing and timing of administration. Since melatonin is a hormone, it is not recommended for children     or during pregnancy. It should also be noted that unidentified chemical     impurities have been detected in some melatonin preparations. For     now melatonin is not recommended until further studies are done     and a synthetic form approved. Sleeping Pills Insomnia is one of the most troublesome symptoms of jet lag. While     you're trying to fall asleep, your internal clock is saying     “wake up.” The following sleeping aids are indicated     and recommended: Sonata (zaleplon): Dose: 10 to 20 mg for adults Immovane: Dose 5 to 7.5 mg for adults These medications have rapid onset, adequate     duration of action, and minimum or no residual effect on daytime     performance. Habituation is possible. They should be used for only a short time and in the lowest effective     dose. Jet Lag Formulas "No Jet Lag" These homeopathic preparations supposedly     help reset your biorhythms. The evidence on their effectiveness     is empirical and no scientific studies have been done. They are     also expensive. Jet Lag is Multifactorial Feeling tired and irritable after a long     trip is not due entirely to changes in your circadian rhythms. The     issue is more complex. For several days prior to departure, you are frantically taking     care of what seems like a thousand and one last minute errands and     details: You are probably too keyed up to get          enough sleep. Your normal eating and drinking patterns are          disrupted. You are somewhat apprehensive about flying. You are anxious about leaving home and/or your family. You fight heavy traffic getting to the airport. You park your car, but wonder if it will be          safe. You carry a heavy suitcase half a mile to          check in and hope it won't get lost. You catch a connecting flight. You stand in line again at check-in. You clear security checkpoints. Then you wait in a crowded, smoky airport          lounge because your overseas flight is delayed by hours. It's no surprise that you're feeling     stressed out even before takeoff. Add to this a lack of sleep enroute,     cramped seating, further dehydration—even constipation. Then,     after arrival in a foreign country, you face still more hassles     simply getting to your hotel. No wonder you've got jet lag. Jet lag is not a single entity and the symptom complex will probably     never be completely alleviated by a single treatment. The symptoms     you experience are usually a combination of travel-related physical     and emotional stress, sleep deprivation, plus the biological effect     of your circadian rhythm being out of synch. Reducing Jet Lag While En-Route Don't drink too much alcohol—Alcohol          is a depressant drug, and larger amounts can cause rebound nervous          stimulation and restlessness, interfering with your sleep. Don't drink too much coffee—Excess          caffeine may cause nervousness and insomnia heartburn. If you          drink coffee at home have your coffee enroute at the destination          time that corresponds to your regular “caffeine fix”          time at home. Do drink water and fruit juices. They are good          substitutes for (or complements to) alcoholic drinks and coffee.          You may be somewhat dehydrated at the beginning of the flight          due to disrupted eating and drinking habits prior to departure.          Also, breathing low-humidity cabin air during a long flight will          dry the mucous membranes of your throat and make you thirsty.          Water and fruit juices are the best drinks to quench your thirst. Sleeping enroute when it coincides with nighttime          at your destination. After Arrival If you have an evening arrival, have a light          dinner and go to bed late. The next day try to eat and sleep according          to the local time. If you have a morning arrival, stay active          during the day and get as much exposure to natural light as possible,          if your schedule and the weather permit. If possible, don't          nap, but overpowering fatigue should not be resisted. If you do          nap, keep it under 45 minutes to avoid grogginess upon awakening. Take a sleeping pill if you have troubling          insomnia (see below). Discontinue sleeping medication after three          to five nights. The Myth Of Dehydration For many years it has been touted by the travel     media that dry cabin air in jet airliners causes dehydration—which     presumably could aggravate jet lag. The recommended remedy has always     been to drink extra fluids enroute—and avoid certain beverages,     such as caffeinated drinks, that would “dehydrate” you. This advice appears to be misleading. According     to a new study from the University of Nebraska Medical Center, healthy     adults showed the same “hydration status” (as determined     from urine analysis and other tests) when they drank caffeinated     beverages, such as coffee or caffeinated colas as when they drank     only water and/or fruit drinks. Lower cabin humidity causes, at     most, only a 3 oz. water loss during an 8-hour trip. (In fact, the     stress of travel may cause your body to retain water.) Compulsive     drinking water or other fluids enroute is unnecessary and will lead     to fluid retention and swelling. Business Travelers If you are traveling on important business, you     probably have more need than others to reduce the stress of traveling     and symptoms of jet lag. Consider the following strategies: Avoid leaving large amounts of work          that may be waiting for you on returning. Arrive one to two days before starting your          business or making important business decisions. Reserve a sleeperette (reclining airline seat)          or at least go business class, to improve the chances of sleeping          enroute, Plan one or two extra days after arrival to          rest and recuperate prior to business activities, Break up a long trip (>6 time zones) along          the way for a day or two. Follow the gener