
Troo Step Insoles - Testimonials Home How? Foot Conditions Other Pain Sports Testimonials Contact Remember How It Felt When You Didn't Have
to Worry About Constant Foot Pain? What do our customers think? Just in case you are still having problems making your decision we
have included some more testimonials that we have received from customers. A s much as we'd like to we can't include all out
testimonials on the site - there are literally so many that it just wouldn't be practical. All of these are genuine comments from genuine people whose lives
have been touched by Troo Step Insoles. We have NEVER asked for a single one of these testimonials and we would
recommend reading our testimonial disclaimer when considering these
experiences. "Thought I would let you have a note about my
'Orthotic Insole' experience. I play golf 3-4 times a week and have suffered for ages with ball of feet soreness
and pain when standing still with full weight on feet - i.e. when putting. First time out with the insoles the pain
in the balls of my feet decreased such that I am only minimally aware of it and the further problem when putting
has just disappeared. Apart from the relief from the continual pain which was really worrying to the point that I
thought I might have to reduce my golf activity considerably, I now find that my level of focus and concentration
has increased because I am not thinking about the other problem. Just a great day when I cam across your
website." Harold Kearsley, Macclesfield, UK "I have bad posture, miss aligned pelvis,
incredibly short hamstrings and quads not to mention the back/neck problems that go with it. My sports
measure/osteopath said my flat feet that also lean on the inside are probably the main cause "your thigh bones
connected to you hip bone" and all that also goes for muscle groups. He recommended orthotic insoles so I bought
some from my chemist for £28.00 they were great I really noticed a difference! Swapping them from shoe to shoe was
a pain, and lets face it at that price your not gonna buy too many. The professional 'made for you' type that are
molded from your foot are around £40.00 -£70.00 WOW. How do they sleep at night? So when they wore out as all
things do I did not replace them until my osteopath gave me another lecture! I had already seen these on the
internet so ordered a couple of pairs.They are GREAT! They do mould very well and the extra pieces are a great idea
I do use them and it's easy. an instant improvement on 'stance' ,less impact and more stamina at work and play. I
like extreme, hiking, paint balling and work bloody long hours, these really relive a lot of problems. I where a
lot of different shoes so have ordered 10 pairs to save on postage and avoid the need to swap around at this price
it is worth it. Your health is the best investment you can make as the returns are "worth more than money..." Nathan Latusek, Sutton Coldfield, UK "Just to let you know that I have received the
other insoles, thankyou so much. Can I say what a massive difference it has made to the pain than I have been
getting. Within two days I can honestly say I was able to walk without the serious pain I have put up with for so
long and you naturally think it will not go away on its own, but it does as I now found out. This was a fantastic
buy, and I will certainly keep you listed as my favourite. Excellent." Allison Drury, Herts,
UK "thought i would send you a personal message
within a week im not limping as much and every now and then can put my foot directly on the floor not back at work
as of yet but hope that wont be long my doctor was bloody so un helpfull once again thanks." Ian Voller,
Herts, UK "Hi, I bought a pair of your insoles, and when
they arrived, I thought they looked rubbish. Ater paying for them, I thought I may as well give them a go, and I
can tell you that they are one of the best pair of insoles I have ever used, sadly I still have sore feet, at the
end of the day, but nothing compared to what they were usually like. I cant believe they are so good, I thank you,
for saving my life, or my feet (you know what I mean) Anyway, I would like to order 3 more pairs (yes I do own more
than one pair of shoes). Cheers, Rose." Rose Mcwhirter, Belfast, UK "Hi There,  I am amazed with the early
results of the insoles, after 6 wks of agony and walking like a permanent cripple, i used the insoles for approx 2
hrs, and i do not exagerate when i say that i now walk free of pain and with no limp whatsoever. I do not know why
or how, but i have tried the scholl insoles with absolutely no relief , so i was  very sceptical when
purchasing the item from you, no disrespect intended, but I enjoy Golf and was suffering during and after the game,
so like you i was up for trying anything, but the almost instant relief is unbelieveable, I would recommend the
product to anyone, many many thanks." David Wright, Hull, UK "Hi John! My feet have not been this comfortable
.. ever!  They're even comfortable when I'm sitting down and in spite of the fact that I tend to wear
"sensible shoes" my feet have still never felt like they're just floating. (Actually, having taken the insole out
of my "sensible shoes" and found it to be little more that the expanded polystyrene you get between apples in a
crate, I find that there is little between me poor ol' foots and the hash shaped rubber sole underneath, with the
hash embossed so heavily into the insole that it is visible on the upper side) My only fear is that because you
urge patience and mine are lovely straight away, I'm thinking I must have done something wrong! But I am definitely
going to be recommending these to all my weak kneed, feeble ankled, sore footed friends!!" Helen
Brookhouse, Devon, UK "I received my inserts yesterday and put them in
my shoes.I am a very big guy 410 lbs. and my feet always hurt. I could not believe the relief i got. It is now so
much easier to walk about. I would always pick the shortest route anytime I had to walk. Now it really does not
matter as my feet do not hurt. Great product and I am ordering another pair right now. Sincerely, John." John Momchin, Rio Rancho, USA "Hi there.I have 3 pair of these insoles and this
is now the 2nd pair for my husband.  I have plantar faciitis and have been in absolute agony over the last 3
months or so.  I could just about go about my daily routine - some days I could not put my foot to the
floor.  Dr's advise - "Oh, it will go away eventually - rest it and here's some anti-inflamitories" (which by
the way did not work and made me sick)  An I glad I tried these insoles!!!! I'm not cured but it's now a pain
I can live with - they are a miracle!  I'm out walking again and going about almost normally. My husband is a
baker - on his feet over 12 hours a day in severe heat - real trouble with painful feet.  Thought these were a
waste of money until I ordered him a pair - he's amazed at the comfort he now enjoys and is now eagerly awaiting
pair number 2 for another pair of shoes!!!!!Congratulations - perhaps they are something you should be advertising
with the healthcare profession?  Without them I would still be in unbearable pain!  I have never seen
them advertised anywhere before and I could NOT live without them now!" Jacci Tracey, Londonderry,
UK "Just a quick message to say what a wonderful
product this is.Gave relief after about a week of using them in my workboots.Now I can do a complete 8hr shift
without ant pain what so ever." Michael Drewett, Somerset, UK "Hello, John. Many thanks. Received insoles today.
These really are the first I have seen that do the job promised, and I have bought quite a few over the past couple
of years, believe me. Wishing you every success." Eric Rowland, Luton,
Bedfordshire "Hi, I bought some troo step insoles from you a
few months ago.  I work in the food industry and I wear wellies all day every day.  Before I had the
insoles I was experiencing standing fatigue which was extremely uncomfortable, and I have to say that after 3 weeks
of starting to use the insoles I have had no foot discomfort at all.  So I am happy to recommend your insoles
to anyone else who may have similar problems." Naomi Falconer, Mirfield, UK "Hi, I bought some insoles from you back in
October, and I must firstly say thanks very much, they have made an incredible difference. I am after ordering some
more for myself and some for my husband, to give them a try." Jamie Dixon, Scarborough,
UK "Hi just wanted to say about insoles i bought when
i lcontacted you before had only used for afew hours and my feet felt better have suffered 2 years drop arch and
heel, now used them 2 days on feet all day all i can say( thanks) i have tryed every product going these are the
best.Will recommed to friends." Elaine Ayers, Swindon, UK "Hi John, insoles you sold me really work and I
has almost instant relief and therefore would like another 2 pairs" Michael Spies, Horley,
UK "hi ive tried these for a few weeks,they have
realy helped my flat feet by building up the arches,my sore feet are no longer sore and my lower back pain has
dissapeared, advise your customers to persevere,many thanks.del ps they also saved me over £300 as i was due to go
for a personal fitting."         D. Dallison, Herts, UK "ordered some inner soles from you approx threer months ago.  They have been very successful in aleviating
foot pain when walking....what a relief!  My father is 84 and always enjoyed extensive walking ...but had
begun to walk less and less as his foot pain increased.  He is now able to increase the walking (10 -12 miles
or so) thanks to the inner soles.  Therefore he would like some more. I too have found the soles very
beneficial... having pain as a result of rhumatoid arthritis some years ago.  Recently walked around Rome for
long days ...with no foot pain at all.  thanks to the inner soles." Liz Came,
UK "Wow! No pain since putting them in my
shoes" Lynne Hobin, Bolton, UK "Must buy for anyone with pain in their feet, they really work! Excellent" Wune Tang, Rugby,
Uk "great product! excellent service - thank you!" Fiona Shaw, Staffordshire, UK "Ooohhh the relief, what bliss, thank you so much" Georgina Scripps, Wolverhampton, UK "A repeat order says it all-also My wife is happy
with them and that says it all!" Stephen Graves, Essex, UK "look to be the solution to my
problem......thanks" Rosalie Lewis, Gwent, UK "a previous customer coming back for more!" Paula McNicol, Maidstone, UK "felt relief on first wearing thanks" Charles Duncan, Epsom, UK "oh yes pain free and i do a lot of miles" Paul Hindes, Antrim, UK "Miraculous, thank you." Mark Jordan,
Rutland, UK "Absolutely fantastic - these really are helping
my foot! Thanks!" Wendy Conway, Gloucestershire "great inner sole" Nick Glendenning,
Yorkshire, UK "... wife put insoles in,felt the difference
straight away." Paul Share, Worcestershire, UK "These work!!!" Ross Anderson, North
Ayrshire, UK "Outstanding insoles, very comfortable!!!!" Richard Corner, Essex, UK "Worn for 2 weeks now.. Feet feel much better
Thanks" Ian Lavelle, Blackpool, UK "rather simple looking, but very comfortable, with
thanks from my sore heel spur" Mark Johnson, Berwick, Australia "Brilliant thank you, helping me put my best foot
forward again! Recommended" Joann Brayford, Liverpool, UK "These insoles are AMAZING!! superb product!! 5*" Jaki Southgate, Gwent, UK "2nd order for theses insoles! Great product " Mr E Bradshaw, E.Yorks, UK "2nd pair. I recommend these insoles. Worked for
me. Thank you. AAA+++" Lynne Hobin, Bolton, UK "Wow! No pain since putting them in my shoes" Lynne Hobin, Bolton, UK Navigation Home How? Foot Conditions Other Pain Sports Testimonials Contact About Guarantee FAQs Disclaimer Privacy Site Map Testimonials "I play golf 3-4 times a week and have suffered for ages with ball of
                            feet soreness and pain when standing still with full weight on feet - i.e. when
                            putting. First time out with the insoles the pain in the balls of my feet decreased
                            such that I am only minimally aware of it and the further problem when putting has just
                            disappeared. Apart from the relief from the continual pain which was really worrying to
                            the point that I thought I might have to reduce my golf activity considerably, I now
                            find that my level of focus and concentration has increased because I am not thinking
                            about the other problem. Just a great day when I cam across your website." Harold Kearsley, Macclesfield, UK "Hi There,  I am amazed with the early results of the insoles,
                            after 6 wks of agony and walking like a permanent cripple, i used the insoles for
                            approx 2 hrs, and i do not exagerate when i say that i now walk free of pain and with
                            no limp whatsoever." David Wright, Hull, UK "Hi, I bought some insoles from you back in October, and I must firstly say thanks very
                            much, they have made an incredible difference. I am after ordering some more for myself
                            and some for my husband, to give them a try." Jamie Dixon, Scarborough, UK "Hello, John. Many thanks. Received insoles today. These really are the first I have
                            seen that do the job promised, and I have bought quite a few over the past couple of
                            years, believe me. Wishing you every success." Eric Rowland, Luton, UK "Just a quick message to say what a wonderful product this
                            is. Gave relief after about a week of using them in my workboots. Now I can do a
                            complete 8hr shift without ant pain what so ever." Michael Drewett, Somerset, UK "I received my inserts yesterday and put them in my shoes.I am a very big guy 410 lbs.
                            and my feet always hurt. I could not believe the relief i got. It is now so much easier
                            to walk about. I would always pick the shortest route anytime I had to walk. Now it
                            really does not matter as my feet do not hurt. Great product and I am ordering another
                            pair right now. Sincerely, John." John Momchin, Rio Rancho, USA "hi ive tried these for a few weeks, they have really helped my flat feet by building
                            up the arches,my sore feet are no longer sore and my lower back pain has dissapeared,
                            advise your customers to persevere,many thanks.del ps they also saved me over £300 as i
                            was due to go for a personal fitting." D. Dallison, Herts, UK "I have bad posture, miss aligned pelvis, incredibly short hamstrings and quads not to
                            mention the back/neck problems that go with it. My sports measure/osteopath said my
                            flat feet that also lean on the inside are probably the main cause "your thigh bones
                            connected to you hip bone" and all that also goes for muscle groups. He recommended
                            orthotic insoles so I bought some from my chemist for £28.00 they were great I really
                            noticed a difference! Swapping them from shoe to shoe was a pain, and lets face it at
                            that price your not gonna buy too many. The professional 'made for you' type that are
                            molded from your foot are around £40.00 -£70.00 WOW. How do they sleep at night? So
                            when they wore out as all things do I did not replace them until my osteopath gave me
                            another lecture! I had already seen these on the internet so ordered a couple of pairs.
                            They are GREAT! They do mould very well and the extra pieces are a great idea I do use
                            them and it's easy. an instant improvement on 'stance' ,less impact and more stamina at
                            work and play. I like extreme, hiking, paint balling and work bloody long hours, these
                            really relive a lot of problems. I wear a lot of different shoes so have ordered 10
                            pairs to save on postage and avoid the need to swap around at this price it is worth
                            it. Your health is the best investment you can make as the returns are "worth more than
                            money". I am giving a pair to my osteopath when my order arrives. He stocks the branded
                            ones in his practice, he makes no profit on them its just a service. Once he tries them
                            I am sure he will point his customers here! I am in no way affiliated with Troo Step, I
                            just like to say what I feel about things that are really bad or really good!" Nathan Latusek, Sutton Coldfield, UK "Hi just wanted to say about insole I bought. When i had only used for a few hours my
                            feet felt better. Have suffered 2 years drop arch and heel, now used them 2 days on
                            feet all day all i can say( thanks) i have tryed every product going these are the
                            best. Will recommed to friends." Elaine Ayers, Swindon, UK "Hi, I bought a pair of your insoles, and when they arrived, I thought they looked
                            rubbish. Ater paying for them, I thought I may as well give them a go, and I can tell
                            you that they are one of the best pair of insoles I have ever used, sadly I still have
                            sore feet, at the end of the day, but nothing compared to what they were usually like.
                            I cant believe they are so good, I thank you, for saving my life, or my feet (you know
                            what I mean) ... Cheers, Rose." Rose Mcwhirter, Belfast, UK "I work in retail and I have to stand for a full 8 hour shift. I had severe heel pain
                            for months and nothing I bought in Boots helped. Even liquid gel soles had no effect
                            and I would end up barely able to walk. Things were so bad I was even considering
                            leaving my job. I saw these soles on the net and I was a bit sceptical. I am now
                            ordering 3 more pairs. My pain has vanished and I can stand for long periods, pain
                            free. I have recommeneded these to my colleagues..." A Parker, London, UK "My father is 84 and always enjoyed extensive walking ...but had begun to walk less and
                            less as his foot pain increased. He is now able to increase the walking (10 -12 miles
                            or so) thanks to the inner soles. I too have found the soles very beneficial... having
                            pain as a result of rhumatoid arthritis some years ago. Recently walked around Rome for
                            long days ...with no foot pain at all. thanks to the inner soles." Liz Came, UK ** Te