Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bee Honey, Get Natural Bee Honey and Wax from Natural Cosmetics
    Supplies Home | About Us | Contact Us | Enquiry | E-mail Infrastructure Quality Control & Commitment Specialised Services Honey Wholesale suppliers and
            exporters of Bee Honey and Bees Wax from India. Essential
          Oils Soap Skin
          Care Creams and Lotions Shampoos Perfumes
          and Fragrances Hair
          Color, Henna Toothpaste
          and Mouthwash Cleansing
          Creams Anti
          Aging Herbs
          by Common Name We have the entire gamut of herbs known by their common names. - Acacia - Gum Tree - Bees Wax - Gotu Kala - Cucumber - Sweet Violet more.. Herbs
          by Botanical Name Our diverse variety of herbs sorted by their botanical names offers you
        an vast spectrum of choice. - Aloe Vera Burm - Anethum Sowa - Azadirachta Indica - Bentonite - Cucumis Sativus - Centella Asiatica more.. Beauty
          Tips How
          to Look More Beautiful How
          to Order Terms
          of Our Offer Delivery
          Period Privacy
          Policy Home » Hair
      Color Ingredients » Honey Honey Parts Offered Honey, Bee wax, Lichi honey, 100% pure and natural honey Send
      Enquiry ! Description Honey is one of nature's wonders. Honey has been around for a long time and
    yet we know little about it. It is nothing more than nectar gathered from
    the blossoms of many flowers by bees. It is then taken into the beehive and
    changed by the worker bees. Worker bees remove the liquid from the nectar.
    The finished product is heavy syrup with 12 to 20 percent moisture and 80 to
    85 percent sugar. It is a good source of quick energy for the human body. Cosmetic Uses Honey and beeswax are used in the beauty industry to soften and heal the skin tissue and help
    attract moisture to the skin. Most lipsticks are made with a beeswax base.
    Honey can be used in making effective facials. Mix one or two tablespoons of
    honey with one-third cup finely ground oatmeal. Oatmeal can be ground in a
    blender. The amount of honey used depends on your thickness preference.
    Blend in a teaspoonful of rose water or tap water. Clean face thoroughly. Spread facial mixture evenly over
    face. Relax for ten minutes to one half hour. Remove with a soft washcloth
    and warm water. Rinse with cold water or use an astringent. Use this facial
    once a week for improved softness in the skin. This treatment also works
    well for oily complexions. Honey comes in many flavors depending on from which flower the bees gather
    the nectar. Milder flavors of honey include Mesquite and Cotton. Orange
    honey comes from citrus areas. There are many flavors of wild flower honey.
    The flavors vary from year to year. Not only are the flavors varied but
    honey also comes in many different forms. Comb, chunk, fine textured,
    liquid, and even solid honey that is sometimes called granulated are all
    forms of honey. In the United States, we are most familiar with liquid and
    fine textured forms. Liquid and fine textured honey are recommended for
    baking. Honey is kind to our skin. Superior quality Honey and Beeswax Cosmetics
    use, which are both luxurious and refreshingly natural are a boon to
    cosmetics. As well as healing honey, cosmetics contain soothing oils. It
    penetrates the skin deeply and is a natural product that is very safe to
    use. Uses Honey boasts many medical benefits. Honey has aided in bad coughing spells
    for years. An effective mix for coughing is to peel and finely chop one
    pound of onions. Add two ounces of honey and ¾ of a pound of brown
    sugar in two pints of water. Simmer gently over low heat for three hours.
    When cool, put in an airtight container and take four to six tablespoons a
    day. As in any illness, it is best to consult a doctor. It is also a mild
    laxative. People have also boasted that chewing the thin wax cappings sliced
    from the comb of honey once a day for one month before the start of the hay
    fever season greatly reduces hay fever symptoms. Chewing these cappings has
    also helped sinus sufferers. Your throat feels scratchy. Swallowing hurts, and it's an effort to raise
    your voice above a whisper. You could suck on a cough drop or down some
    cough syrup, or you could choose to drink a cup of hot tea laced with honey.
    Many professional singers and announcers reach for the honey jar to soothe
    the symptoms of an irritated or sore throat. But did you ever think of
    applying honey to a burn or a scrape? Scientists are discovering that the
    bee's number one commodity could be good medicine for us. Send
      Enquiry ! Essential Oils | Soap | Skin Care
          Creams and Lotions | Perfumes
          and Fragrances Shampoos | Hair Color, Henna | Toothpaste and Mouthwash Cleansing Creams | Anti Aging Herbs
          by Common Name | Herbs
          by Botanical Name Beauty
          tips -:- How to look More
          Beautiful How to Order -:- Terms of Our Offer -:- Delivery Period Infrastructure ! Quality Control & Commitment ! Specialised Services Home ! About
          Us ! Contact Us ! Enquiry ! E-mail © Natural Cosmetic Supplies (A
        Unit of Mother Herbs) . All Rights Reserved ( Terms
          of Use ) Dev