
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 18:01:04 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.migraineinformation.org/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2007  September | Migraines and Headaches A blog about dealing with migraines and headaches... Home Archive About Migraines & Headaches Categories Articles Migraines and Headaches Uncategorized The Meta Login RSS Comments RSS Back to top Discover The Best About Maxalt Migraine Maxalt’s other name is Rizatriptan. It is  known commonly to cure migraines. When a patient gets attacked with  migraine, the head starts pounding and the blood vessels rush to the head in an  intense manner. To help reduce the intensity, Maxalt works in a way to  constricting the veins as well as arteries. This will then reduce the flow of  the blood to the head, and the intensity of the migraine will decrease. “Migraines are also known as vascular headaches, and this  medicine is mainly used to treat this disorder.” While considering consuming this  medicine, it is important to understand that it cannot be take if the migraine  is unusual. The consumption of this medicine will have to be monitored by a  doctor. This also cannot be consumed if the patient has any heart problems. This medicine must also be avoided if  there are any other complications in the body, and are being treated for any  other diseases. Women who are pregnant as well as breast-feeding must not  consume this drug. Though not all people suffer from side effects, there may be  some that do. They may face some side effects like an allergic reaction  or a chest pain. If any patient using this medicine  encounters such a problem, it is best that they discontinue at once. It is also  advisable to keep your doctor posted about the progress in the condition. Depending on your report, he will be able  to guide you about whether you need to stop using it or not. This drug is also  effective when it comes to other symptoms. Since migraine is associated with  vomiting sensations and sensitivity, Maxalt even helps relieve the patient of  these symptoms . Sometimes there may be side effects that will  last only for an hour or so. It may not be too severe, but if it does last,  again your doctor should be notified. It is important to make sure that this  medicine does not have any reactions with other medicines that you are  consuming. If you do detect any sort of problems, you should seek  professional help. Tags: breast feeding heart problems medicine medicines migraine migraines Migraines and Headaches sensitivity vascular headaches Share This 0 Comments :
		09.27.07 Feverfew Migraine Is Now Commonly Used Feverfew is used not only to treat migraines, but other diseases as well. This is a plant that originated in Europe, and has been used for centuries as a common medicine. This is a plant that belongs to the sunflower family. The medicines that contain this plant normally use the leaf extracts, but all the other parts of the plant that grow above the ground can be used too. “The components of this medicine, work in such a way that it works to prevent the constriction of blood vessels.” The constrictions of blood vessels are what cause a migraine. This medicine became popular, as it was much better than most medications that were subscribed for migraine attacks. This can be consumed in the leaf form too. If consumed as a leaf, about two or three can be consumed every day. This can also be consumed as a capsule. This medicine when consumed daily will give a lot of relief to patients suffering from migraine. Since migraine occurs over a period of time, the feverfew medicine can be consumed with white willow. Over about twelve weeks there will be a significant change in the migraine intensity and pain. Feverfew has known to be combined with several other components to provide good results. Some of them are magnesium and vitamin B2. This combination is known to reduce migraine attacks by fifty percent. This medicine can also have a carbon dioxide extract, and this too is as effective as the other combinations. The dose has to be taken with the advice of a health care provider. It can be taken in the dose of 100 to 300 mg, four times a day for effective results. Those consuming this for the treatment of migraine must also remember that this will not give instant results. It will take a while to yield results. Since this is a natural product, there will be no side effects. However it has to be consumed in a normal dosage, and it should not be taken in heavy doses at all. The dosage will also have to be stopped slowly. Tags: common medicine medicine work migraine attacks migraines Migraines and Headaches patients suffering from sunflower family vitamin b2 Share This 0 Comments :
		09.23.07 The Best Info About Excedrin Migraine The Excedrin drug is certified by the  Food and Drug administration to be the first over the counter medicine for  severe migraine. Since migraine is a common illness, and  it affects most people, this drug became very handy. Migraine can be associated  with several symptoms. It may include severe pain, and also vomiting sensations  along with blurred vision. “This drug is known to  effectively reduce the pain and no other symptoms.” But since the pain is the most severe of  all the symptoms concerned with migraine, most people are happy to use this  drug. This can be bought over the counter, and this means immediate relief for  all of them. This drug contains a bit of aspirin as well as a small amount  of caffeine . It has been proved that this drug  effectively can control and reduce the pain when a migraine is caused. This  drug can also be very effective very quickly, and can reduce the pain in about  thirty minutes. Unlike many others anti migraine drugs, this drug can  allow the pain to be relieved for a long time. This will result in people being  able to take part in all activities. It is known that migraine is a very  crippling disease, and thus when an attack occurs, they will not be able to  participate in any physical or mental activities. Excedrin allows the  person to be relieved in a very short time . This drug is also popular because it is  very cost effective. Since a lot of other drugs related to migraine cause a lot  of side effects, this drug is prescribed. It is known to be very safe and also  very effective. Most of the time, this drug is preferred to the rest. This is available in three forms. Any  form can be used, as long as the patient is comfortable with the particular  type. It is also good to consume this drug as per the instructions on the  label. At all times, it is important that a health care professional’s help is  sought for any problems. This will ensure the safety of the individual. Tags: food and drug food and drug administration medicine migraine Migraines and Headaches sensations vomiting Share This 0 Comments :
		09.19.07 Daily Migraine: A Common Problem Faced By Zillions Daily migraine may occur in a chronic or  episodic condition. This is a problem faced by several  thousands of people. This falls under the primary headache syndrome. This also  happens to be the most common type of headache. Most of the time, almost ninety  percent of the primary headaches are related to daily headaches. “The daily migraine is  very easy to identify.” This type of migraine is also more common  among women than men. It will affect the visual, and will then slowly begin as  a headache. Daily migraine will most of the time involve some flashing of the  light, in context to the vision. A daily migraine may also show other  symptoms before it begins, like fatigue or mood changes . Daily migraines attacks are sometimes  very sever, and do not allow the person to indulge in physical activity. The  attack can last from six to seventy two hours. During the attack, the patient  will also suffer from vomiting sensations. Sometimes the pain can be very severe,  while at other times the pain will be very moderate. Most of the time the pain is considered  to be unilateral, but some patients do experience this bilaterally. When the  daily migraine attacks a person, they will be unable to focus well on anything. Most of the time they prefer to be by  themselves. They will not get involved in any activity of any sort. Most  women are prone to get this attack when they approach their menstruation cycle . Daily migraine is most likely to cause  dehydration, and this will only make the pain seem worse. It is advisable that  the patient drinks a lot of water during this time. This kind of migraine can  be triggered due to various reasons. It could be the use of certain  medicines, and it could also happen if caffeine is consumed a lot along with it . Daily migraine will need medication, but  with the help of a professional . It can also be  treated in other ways, like giving the body a little more sleep and pressure packs.  It is important to take the medical history into account. Tags: daily headaches episodic headache migraine Migraines and Headaches ninety percent primary headaches Share This 0 Comments :
		09.15.07 Caffeine Migraine: Learn About The Symptoms It is believed that caffeine is the main  cause of all migraines. This causes all types of headache right  from the common headache to the severe migraine. It is known to have all the  qualities that would cause any kind of headache. This statement is also  contradicted by many of people. “Some advise patients  with migraine to consume caffeine.” This is probably true in certain  circumstances. Caffeine is contained in drinks like tea, coffee and colas. It  is also contained in several other food items. If you have been attacked with a  migraine, and your doctor suspects that it is caused by caffeine, the  consumption of caffeine must be stopped at once. The migraine caused will also be related  to insomnia, anxiety and depression. It is believed that caffeine is related  to all the other symptoms related to migraine. It is still debated widely,  whether a migraine can be caused just by caffeine, or whether certain people  can be affected by a migraine attack, when they do not consume the component. Most  often it has been concluded that it is caffeine that allows the migraine to  occur . At such a time, the migraine can be  controlled by quitting the consumption of caffeine entirely. This can be  replaced with better food items like fresh fruit juices and wholesome meals. It  is being debated, that caffeine can cause migraines in different percentages.  There are the caffeine withdrawal symptoms that cause migraine. Sometimes it is said that about zero  cases of the migraines are caused by caffeine. At other times it is said that  almost half the migraine cases are caused by caffeine. There are still other debates that  caffeine causes almost all of the migraine attacks experienced by all patients. Caffeine is known as a psychoactive drug, and this can be addictive . Since this is addictive, people may  consume it in high volumes. This is sure to trigger migraines. Chocolate is  also known to contain caffeine, and consuming this in excess will also trigger  severe migraine. It is wise to approach a doctor, even if you think that  caffeine is affecting you with a migraine . Tags: addictive anxiety and depression caffeine withdrawal symptoms migraine attack migraine attacks migraines Migraines and Headaches psychoactive drug Share This 0 Comments :
		09.10.07 Atypical Migraine: What Is This All About? A lot of people are confused about a  normal migraine and atypical migraine. Atypical migraine will most often differ  with the kind of symptoms. A doctor will have to be sought if you think you are  experiencing symptoms that are not part of a regular migraine. This is also not  very easy to diagnose, and seeking correct help is very important. “Most often, the  symptoms of this atypical migraine will keep changing.” This is when you will need to seek  professional help. It can be identified because there will be other symptoms  besides the ones that are seen with the regular migraine. Some tests will have  to be taken if there is a doubt about the symptoms. This migraine will be  identified with concern to one symptom . This type of migraine will not be  accompanied with a headache. This will also cause a lot of facial pain. This is  also otherwise known as silent migraine. This migraine can be figured that it  exists, because of its unusual symptom appearances . Another thing with this migraine is that  it could seem a bit complicated. The correct diagnosis will definitely have to  be done. If a typical migraine is suspected, it is  good to provide the doctor with all the possible medical histories, and also  the medication one is undergoing, if there is any. Even if there are any other natural supplements that are  being consumed, it is best to allow the doctor to see the entire history before  taking a decision. Some ways to avoid this migraine is to  make sure that you are taking care not to trigger any symptoms. If this is a  new experience, you must immediately seek professional help. This will allow  you to understand what the symptoms are all about. You can then take care to  avoid certain foods, and also to control stress. Being aware of what causes atypical migraines  will go a long way in helping the patient control the attack. The slightest  symptoms should not be ignored, as this will lead to a chronic state of the  condition. Keeping track of physical condition is very important. Tags: atypical migraine atypical migraines control stress medication Migraines and Headaches natural supplements patient control possible medical Share This 0 Comments :
		09.6.07 What Happens After Migraine? Migraine is considered to be a very  painful disorder. It not only cripples the mind it also  cripples the body. It does not allow a person to take part in any physical  activities. Migraines cause the most severe pain in the head, and this is not  always effectively controlled immediately. “Besides  pain, a person can also go through various other symptoms including nausea as  well as a blurred vision.” Sometimes a migraine can be chronic, and  it may vary in severity from person to person. It can be caused due to various  reasons. And consumption of certain foods may also cause attacks. It is  important to maintain a healthy diet, as well as participate in mild physical exercise  when it comes to controlling a migraine attack. Migraine is experienced by several  people, and is also not restricted to a certain group of people. Anyone from 10  to 45 years old may face such attacks. It could also be hereditary . Migraines are the types of disorders that  have to be treated as soon as the symptoms are recognized. It may last for  anywhere between six to forty eight hours. The duration of the migraine is not very  clear and stable. It may last for about a few hours to many days. It could even  not attack a person for several months or years. The symptoms of migraine  may last well after the attack has subsided . Once symptoms are noted, it is natural  for anybody to approach professional help and to control the attack as soon as  possible. However, in certain cases the migraine attack is so severe, it lasts  for several days. Once this has been treated, the person  may feel that there are some residues left from the attack. The person may  still feel dull and depressed. This will not allow them to perform their daily  activities well. They might also feel uneasy with their sleep patterns, as it  would have been affected for a long time. While facing post migraine  symptoms, it is important to balance the state of the body by eating, exercising  and sleeping well. Tags: healthy diet migraine attack migraine symptoms migraines Migraines and Headaches sleep patterns symptoms of migraine Share This 0 Comments :
		09.2.07 Close Social Web E-mail del.icio.us Digg Furl Netscape Yahoo! My Web StumbleUpon Google Bookmarks Technorati BlinkList Newsvine ma.gnolia reddit Windows 