
Cymbalta (duloxetine HCl): Official Site Sign In Prescribing Information Safety Information and Boxed Warning Medication Guide Información en Español Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Depression Understanding Depression The Impact of Depression Talking With Others About Depression Cymbalta and Depression Information for Friends and Family Generalized Anxiety Disorder Understanding Generalized Anxiety Disorder The Impact of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Talking to Your Doctor About Generalized Anxiety Disorder Cymbalta and Generalized Anxiety Disorder Information for Friends and Family Diabetic Nerve Pain Understanding Diabetic Nerve Pain The Impact of Diabetic Nerve Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Diabetic Nerve Pain Cymbalta and Diabetic Nerve Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Managing Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Understanding Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Low Back Pain Managing Chronic Low Back Pain Understanding Chronic Low Back Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Low Back Pain Information for Friends and Family Fibromyalgia Understanding Fibromyalgia How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Talking to Your Doctor About Fibromyalgia Cymbalta and Fibromyalgia Information for Friends and Family Learn About Cymbalta Información en Español How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work What to Expect Resource Center Important Safety Information Side Effects Commonly Asked Questions About Cymbalta Contact Us About Lilly Managing Your Depression Taking Care of Yourself Be Good to Your Body Be Good to Your Mind Expand Your Network Tools and Resources Treating Your Generalized Anxiety Disorder Managing Your Diabetic Nerve Pain Taking Care of Yourself Be Good to Your Body Make a Plan to Stay Well Tools and Resources Managing Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Taking Care of Yourself Tools and Resources Managing Your Chronic Low Back Pain Taking Care of Yourself Tools and Resources Managing Your Fibromyalgia Taking Care of Yourself Tools and Resources Home > Already Prescribed Cymbalta > Managing Your Depression > Tools and Resources Tools and Resources Learning about depression can make it easier to take an important step on the path toward feeling better. It helps to understand the symptoms and causes of depression, the range of treatments available, and how to care for yourself or a loved one with depression. Tools Here are some materials to help you get started: How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work shows how serotonin and norepinephrine work. Depression Impact Tool helps you understand and identify symptoms you may be experiencing by allowing you to select, rate, and print out your own list of symptoms to share with your doctor. Glossary of relevant terms found on this site Online Depression Resources Advocacy & Support Groups These nonprofit organizations can help you learn more about depression and how to treat and manage it. Some may also be able to direct you to support groups and doctors in your area. Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA) In-depth information on depression and other mood disorders from one of the nation's leading support and advocacy groups. Includes extensive links to local support groups. Find a physician or psychologist to treat depression. Resources and tools are available to help "improve the lives of people with depression and bipolar disorder." www.DBSAlliance.org Families for Depression Awareness A resource for families grappling with depression and related mental illnesses. Includes educational information, personal stories, and advice and support for caregivers. www.FamilyAware.org Freedom From Fear A mental health advocacy association founded in 1984, Freedom From Fear provides anxiety and depression resources for mental illness sufferers and their families. This site offers an anxiety and depression screening tool, as well as referrals to local healthcare providers who will review your results with you at no charge. www.FreedomFromFear.org Mental Health America (MHA) Formerly known as the National Mental Health Association, MHA is "the country's leading nonprofit dedicated to helping ALL people live mentally healthier lives." This site offers advocacy, support, and research covering all aspects of mental health and mental illness. www.MentalHealthAmerica.net National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) NAMI works on the local and national level to provide support and advocacy to people with mental illness, their families, and their friends. This site contains information about depression and other mental illnesses, links to support resources, and news about policy and research initiatives. www.nami.org National Empowerment Center This site offers information on myriad topics, such as self-help groups, legal services, meditation, and self-help techniques in your neighborhood. www.power2u.org On Our Own of Maryland This site offers mental health education and an advocacy network. www.OnOurOwnMD.org SharetheCaregiving, Inc. This not-for-profit organization's mission is to promote and educate the public about group caregiving by using the "Share The Care" model. Friends and family members will find in-depth information and resources. www.ShareTheCare.org Suicide Prevention Action Network of USA (SPAN USA) SPAN USA is an organization for suicide-attempt survivors or people affected by suicide and is dedicated to preventing suicide through public education and awareness; community action; and federal, state, and local grassroots advocacy. www.spanusa.org Back to top Government Agencies These sites, which always end with ".gov," often include publications about an illness, news about medications and clinical trials, links to medical articles and research, and links to local groups and resources. National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) An information-rich site dedicated to mental health issues. Includes several easy-to-read government publications about depression in English and Spanish. www.nimh.nih.gov Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) SAMHSA's National Mental Health Information Center provides a wealth of online mental health information and resources, including a tool that allows you to locate mental health services in your area as well as a list of national toll-free hotlines that provide mental health resources and referrals. www.mentalhealth.samhsa.gov Back to top Health-related Sites Medical sites usually cover a range of topics, offering information about many illnesses, their symptoms and causes, types of treatment, and links to other resources. American Psychiatric Association Find a psychiatrist, fact sheets, pamphlets, tips on choosing a psychiatrist, and other resources. www.psych.org American Psychological Association Here you can find a psychologist to treat depression. www.apa.org National Women's Health Resource Center (NWHRC) The NWHRC site contains excellent overviews of numerous health topics of interest to women, including depression. www.HealthyWomen.org WebMD This site includes a comprehensive and easy-to-follow overview of depression, its symptoms, causes, treatments, and more. www.WebMD.com Back to top Drug Information These sites allow you to find detailed information about widely available medications, including specifics about precautions to take and potential side effects. MedlinePlus This site from the National Institutes of Health and the National Library of Medicine has a database with information about thousands of prescription and over-the-counter medications. www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus Back to top Indications Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in four short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in three short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic osteoarthritis pain and chronic low back pain. Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Prescribing Information | Safety Information and Boxed Warning | Medication Guide | Multimedia Help | Glossary | Site Map | Patient Assistance Program Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Copyright DD61726-012012A ©Lilly USA, LLC 
 2012. All rights reserved. This site is intended for U.S. residents age 18 and over. Cymbalta is a registered trademark of Lilly USA, LLC. No Yes This Site: 