< 
                    back Soo 
                    Mi, Licensed Acupuncturist From 
                    an early age I knew I was going to be a healer. My father 
                    was a practitioner of Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine for 
                    over 40 years and was a major inspiration to me. I used to 
                    watch in awe as he would cure people of their ailments, miraculously 
                    relieving years of pain and suffering. My desire to understand 
                    this ancient art fueled my appetite for knowledge, knowledge 
                    to become a healer myself. I attended Mercy College in New 
                    York and studied under the supervision of Dr. William Prinsky, 
                    one of the leading educators in Chinese medicine and acupuncture 
                    in the country. Although my major field of study is acupuncture 
                    I rounded my education with the study of Chinese Herbal Medicine, 
                    Qi Gong (energy healing), and related fields of Western Medicine 
                    including Pathophysiology and Pharmacology. My specialty is 
                    in pain management and facial rejuvenation. I myself have 
                    suffered from lower back pain and chronic tennis elbow, injuries 
                    I received during my college years. My clinical dissertation 
                    on lateral epicondylitis, known as tennis elbow, earned me 
                    my Masters degree in Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine. The 
                    suffering I went through has made me very empathetic toward 
                    the chronic pain and suffering of my patients, and the fact 
                    that I myself was cured instilled in me the confidence to 
                    help and encourage others. During my internship 
                    at Sound Shore Medical Center, I successfully treated many 
                    gynecological problems through integrative medicine, which 
                    include menstrual problems, uterine cyst, and infertility 
                    to name a few. This experience has given me the invaluable 
                    lesson on the importance of working on the body as a whole 
                    and bringing balance and wholeness to the body. I am a licensed 
                    acupuncturist in New York State, and I am National Board Certified 
                    Diplomat in Acupuncture. I am certified in facial rejuvenation 
                    acupuncture and trained under Mary Elizabeth Wakefield, who 
                    is renowned for facial rejuvenation acupuncture in Hollywood. Jeremy 
                    Sieg, Licensed Acupuncturist Welcome. 
                    As a holistic health practitioner, my practice is dedicated 
                    to helping my patients achieve optimum health through a balance 
                    of body, mind and spirit. Too often, the stresses of modern 
                    urban life push our bodies and minds to the limit, and this 
                    begins to take its toll on our health. The healing traditions 
                    of ancient China are uniquely suited to the health concerns 
                    faced by so many New Yorkers. I invite you to contact me and 
                    find out how Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine can help bring 
                    back a healthful balance to your life. I am a New York State 
                    Licensed Acupuncturist offering acupuncture and Chinese medicine 
                    at two convenient locations, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, 
                    and in Brooklyn. About Me. I was 
                    trained in Acupuncture and Chinese Herbal Medicine at Bastyr 
                    University in Seattle, one of the leading institutions in 
                    the country for the study and advancement of Natural Medicine. 
                    My areas of clinical emphasis are on pain management, depression, 
                    anxiety, geriatric care, gynecological problems and infertility. 
                    I also have over a decade of experience studying and teaching 
                    Tai Chi. The style of Tai Chi I teach is the Yang Family Traditional 
                    form that I learned from Master Yang Jun, 6th generation descendent 
                    of the Yang family. I employ a gentle teaching style, and 
                    I am adept at adapting classes to any special needs of the 
                    student. What 
                    is Acupuncture? Acupuncture 
                    is the insertion of thin, disposable, sterile needles into 
                    specific points on the body. The areas selected are believe 
                    to be active energetic points that act as gateways into the 
                    body's energetic system. Inserting needles into these locations 
                    promotes and strengthens the flow of Qi and assists the body 
                    in reestablishing balance, health and the feeling of well 
                    being. What 
                    is Qi? At the heart of Oriental Medicine is the concept of Qi, an 
                    energy force that exists everywhere. This essential life-bearing 
                    force flows freely throughout the body in a healthy person. 
                    when this energy is obstructed or out of balance, illness 
                    can ensue. Oriental medicine seeks to reestablish and maintain 
                    the balanced movement of Qi. What 
                    is Oriental Medicine? Oriental Medicine is comprehensive medical system originally 
                    formulated in China thousands of years ago. Today it is used 
                    throughout the world to help preserve health and treat simple 
                    to complex medical conditions. Does 
                    Acupuncture Hurt? A mild pinch 
                    or prick may be felt upon insertion. Afterwards, a mild distended 
                    or heat sensation may be felt. The sensation felt by each 
                    patient will vary. For most a deep sense of peace and relaxation 
                    is induced. Commonly 
                    Treated Disorders The World 
                    Health Organization and the National Institute of Health have 
                    issued documentation that hundreds of different diseases are 
                    effectively treated with acupuncture. Some common conditions 
                    that have been successfully treated include: Allergies Asthma Arthritis Acne Anxiety Back 
                      Pain Depression Joint 
                      Problems High 
                      Blood Pressure TMJ Infertility Menopausal 
                      Problems GYN 
                      Problems Insomnia Smoking 
                      cessation Diarrhea Constipation Bronchitis Trigeminal 
                      Neuralgia Carpal 
                      Tunnel Syndrome Sports 
                      Injuries IBS Stress Tension Stroke What 
                    to Expect from your Practitioner Typically, 
                    a first visit begins by taking a complete history. The practitioner 
                    will use the provided information to help complete a comprehensive 
                    intake and exam. A diagnosis and treatment plan will be obtained 
                    from this process. An acupuncture treatment will consist of 
                    the insertion of several needles, which are usually left in 
                    place for 15-45 minutes. Treatment may be augmented with mild 
                    electrical stimulation, the burning of Moxa (a warming herbal 
                    mixture) or other techniques to energetically stimulate the 
                    needles or other select areas. Most health problems take more 
                    than one to four treatments to resolve. In some cases a course 
                    of ten treatments are required before significant benefits 
                    are obtained. During this period the practitioner may modify 
                    his or her diagnosis and treatment plan to adapt to the patient's 
                    improvements. Overall, the patient will feel more relaxed 
                    and balanced after each treatment. 1 Hour Orientation 
                    = $150 (Includes Cupping and possible Muxa) 60 Minute 
                    Treatment = $100 120 Minute 
                    Treatm