
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 01:15:01 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Empowerment Hypnotherapy - Hypnotherapy Leicestershire Testimonials I think most of what could be said about Alexia's amazing abilities as a therapist and more have been said in the other reviews. She is an incredibly talented and compassionate person, who took me on when others turned me away, and is bringing me back to being a whole person again. So I'll just add one thing: If Carlsberg did therapists, they'd be Alexia Elliott!! Sometimes words do not do people justice and sometimes there are not enough words or emotions to express how grateful I am for having met such an inspirational and wonderful woman/therapist. I remember the very first session that I had with Alexia, wondering if this person was going to be able to help me. Within minutes after meeting Alexia, I was at ease and felt very relaxed and comfortable. For once in my life I felt that this time was about ME. After many years I had finally realised and accepted that there were areas in my life that I needed to change  in particular, depressive episodes and weight loss. Little did I realise that the two were so interlinked, and for the first time ever, I felt that there was someone out there who understood the pain and torment that I had been going through." Alexia is truly an amazing therapist with so much empathy and compassion for the people that she works with. I have gained so many valuable life-tools that have helped me to work though, and continue to work through, some of the barriers I had been facing. Worry and anxiety over food and my life was all consuming.  It had all but taken over all my days and left me feeling so scared and alone that I didn't think I could ever feel safe, content or allow myself to smile ever again.  I found Alexia's approach and methods were a massive help, not only in making me feel better about myself but helping me find that teeny little bit of light in my life and showing me how to brighten up my whole existence.  It all made sense after she helped me to see who I really am, turns out I didn't have all that to worry about after all and after a few sessions with her, I began to feel so much better about all that was worrying me.  I can't believe I struggled for so long when I didn't have to.  Alexia has a gentle, yet no nonsense approach that is very caring; understated but SO effective.  I'd trust her with my spirit, mind and worries without hestitation, anytime.   KDP T he emphasis of the teaching is in the title of the course - quick, efficient cures for clients, not whys and wherefores. The client is then left empowered to go on with a life, armed with more choices than they thought possible "Alexia Elliott was the Therapist I had sessions with. She was very Professional but also extremely friendly and put me at my ease straight away. I found the session fees paid for themselves in my case as I spent less on Alcohol due to them. My self belief and health also improved. Thank you." "I looked forward to every session with Alexia and find it so easy to talk to her as I knew I can trust her. Alexia has helped me see things so much more clearly and have the belief to take things a step-at-a-time, with awareness and compassion for the journey that is taking place. Without any doubt, I will always HIGHLY RECOMMEND Alexia because, quite simply, she is the best. An inspirational person that helps you to see your world in a brighter light, an inspirational person that inspires you to be a better person". Kerry "Working with Alexia of Empowerment Therapy has given me an amazing lease of life that seemed impossible 2 months ago. Alexia has a wide range of therapy skills which she constantly develops, a natural empathy toward people and an open mind. Using this mix she provided me with therapy that was specific to my needs, whilst being flexible toward the changes that I experienced. Most importantly, the journey that we went through was fun and creative (along with the odd tear); this provided me with the freedom I needed to gain true self awareness and make necessary change. Empowerment Hypnotherapy is an exceptional service that I would recommend to anyone who is looking to actively improve their life." Fiona "I visited Alexia for weight related issues. I had struggled all my life. As well as weight loss, I was able to explore and close some very difficult issues in my life that were symptoms of my over eating. I am now able to eat sensible choices, eating wise feeling better physically and psychologically". Maisie" "Alexia is a great listener and orchestrator of questions that inevitably make you search your inner soul to find root causes of anxiety and stress related problems, which often manifest as physical conditions. Doctors may prescribe medication and time off to heal, but Alexia brings about a self awareness that enables improved management of the cause and a better outcome. I have no hesitation in recommending her skills to any person or organisation" David "Alexia Elliott was the Therapist I had sessions with. She was very Professional but also extremely friendly and put me at my ease straight away. I found the session fees paid for themselves in my case as I spent less on Alcohol due to them. My self belief and health also improved. Thank you." Pete "As I was coming from a non counselling background, I wanted a course that catered for as wide a range of therapy topics as possible. Talking Cures exceeded this aspiration in every way. I have had doors opened to so many things, it's been a delight to start investigating future directions. The course covers all conceivable presenting problems and goes on to demonstrate many different ways of approaching them - from hypnotherapy, NLP, shamanic approaches and combinations of all three. I found the delivery to be well paced and sympathetic the feelings of the group. In fact it was only looking back when I realised how much ground we had covered every weekend. The theory is interspersed with practical exercises and enlivened by many anecdotes and examples from the real world of counselling. the emphasis of the teaching is in the title of the course - quick, efficient cures for clients, not whys and wherefores. The client is then left empowered to go on with a life, armed with more choices than they thought possible. If asked to sum up the course, I would describe it as a launch pad. A runway designed for students to take off in any direction they choose in the wide world of counselling. I would recommend it heartily to anyone considering taking up counselling, furthering their career or as wonderful self development." Brett Corden (truenorthcounselling@gmail.com "Having started the course with Talking Cures Training with no prior knowledge of hypnotherapy, I can honestly say that it has changed my life. Every single module was excellently taught by Alexia and Martin, both of whom have a wealth of experience in hypnotherapy, NLP and Shamanism. They made every single one of the students feel at home from the word go. I enjoyed the course so much that I have become a professional hypnotherapist myself. I would recommend Talking Cures Training to anyone who wants to learn the skills and techniques involved in hypnotherapy, NLP and Shamanic healing. Every single lesson involved a lot of practical work, backed up with excellent slides and presentations" Mark Home Free Consultation Alexia Elliott Reviews London Clinic Courses Weightloss Course Hypnotherapy Practitioner Training Support Group Contact Treatments Anxiety Irritable Bowel Syndrome Confidence And Self Esteem Depression Spiritual Development Addictions Pain Control Weight Loss Gastric Band Phobias OCD Bullimia Anorexia HypnoBirthing Social Phobia/ Social Anxiety Insomnia PTSD BDD Jelously Emotions Bereavement And Loss Stress Abuse Worry Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP Narrative Therapy Brief Solution Focused Therapy Break Through Therapy Existential Therapy Time Line Therapy Shamanism Analytical Therapy Psycho-Spiritual Therapy FAQs Break Through Therapy Break Through Therapy What is a Breakthrough Session? An intensive one to one session duration anywhere between 3-5 hours depending on what your needs. Why come for a breakthrough session? During a breakthrough session you can: Heal painful emotions, such as guilt, anger and sadness. Control anxiety and stress levels. Eliminate panic attacks and phobias. Solve relationship problems. Increase your physical and mental energy levels. Tackle depression. Quit smoking and other addictions. Improve your self-esteem and confidence. Find a sense of direction, purpose and meaning to your life. Find ways to get yourself out of a rut. Identify and achieve your goals. Take control of your life Become more successful. Obtain relief from physical ailments. What is a breakthrough session? A breakthrough session is an intensive one-to-one personal transformational experience. I am qualified breakthrough therapy with vast experience offering breakthrough sessions. A breakthrough session can last for up to 5hrs in one day the session, usually lasts for 3-5 hours. if you feel, that you have many problems and are unsure which one is causing the greatest amount of pain for you, During a breakthrough session, we will find the  or root cause or the original wound of your problems. As a result of discovering the root cause; you create an open space so to speak to make deep and meaningful changes on your life. You will breakthrough the barriers or blocks which have held you back in the past, and move to the highest level of personal integration and wholeness. Leaving you to become your most authentic self and revealing the "real" you. How does a breakthrough work? I will draw upon a variety of highly effective modern psychological techniques and processes including: NLP, Time Line Therapy and Hypnotherapy. You will be taken through detailed questioning to reveal the root cause of your problem, followed by various therapeutic interventions to bring about the desired change. A breakthrough is a one-day intensive therapy session. You will begin work before the session, when you are given tasking to complete prior to your breakthrough. Following your breakthrough you will be given further tasking to ensure you embody the changes you will have made. Who comes for a breakthrough? People come for a breakthrough for many different reasons, some people have a clear reason for coming or a specific problem they want to resolve. Other people don't know what the problem is but continually fail to get what they want out of life. Some people think that things can't be changed, preferring to think that's just the way things are. During your breakthrough you begin to realise that it's when you allow yourself to dream of the changes that you begin to believe it's possible. Following a breakthrough you will find that the changes have already happened. What if I came for a breakthrough? You can expect your life to change in the ways you hoped for and expected, as well as in ways that surprise and delight you.  You will let go of old beliefs and overwhelming emotions,   you will feel full of energy, motivation and purpose. You will find yourself doing things easily and effortlessly that you previously found challenging or avoided altogether. You will hear people comment "What's different? You seem so happy and confident!" You will see the results: more success, waking feeling energised in the morning, being healthier, slimmer and happier at complete ease with yourself, quiet inside your mind. Before the session After you schedule your session, you'll receive a questionnaire that you'll have to fill completely and deliver at least 2 business days before the scheduled session. The session will be tailored specifically to your need. You may also be assigned some tasks to do. During the session You'll have one of the most outstanding experiences ever! You'll notice yourself getting enhanced at an unbelievable rate, and you'll see the changes happen in front of your eyes like magic! The session usually lasts 3 to 5 hours on average. Breakthrough Therapy in leicester Leicestershire, contact Alexia to find out more about a Breakthrough Session, with highly experienced Leicester based, Breakthrough Therapist Alexia Elliott. Find out how Empowerment Hypnotherapy can help you, call/text on 07966 412209
or email alexia@alexiaelliott.co.uk or simply click here to discover more about your FREE consultation with Alexia Elliott in Leicestershire. Empowerment Hypnotherapy Leicestershire for: Hypnotherapy | NLP | Shamanism | Breakthrough Therapy | Anxiety | Weight Loss | Stress | Depression | Empowerment Hypnotherapy for Hypnotherapy in: Leicester | Leicestershire | Loughborough | Nottingham | Northampton | Derby | London | What is a Mindpod? It is a blend of Hypnotherapy, NLP, Meditation and storytelling; A Mindpod will soothe your mind and relax your body.  A Mindpod is designed to create and lasting change.  A mindpods is therapy in an instant download: Looking for Hypnotherapy Mp3's or Cds Looking for Hypnosis Mp'3 or Cds Looking for Meditation Mp3's or Cds Looking for NLP Mp3's or Cds Please visit www.mindpods.co.uk sitemap | links | Website: Web Design with Seagull Designs Copyright © 2012 Alexia Elliott E