Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Home Remedies for Hemorrhoids: the DIY approach Home Remedies for Hemorrhoids It is not a surprise that most people would opt for home remedies for hemorrhoids rather than seek professional medical help. This is simply because most are embarrassed to have it. Some would rather endure the pain than having to confess to another individual – physician or not, that he/she has hemorrhoids. This is where home remedies for hemorrhoids comes in handy. Herbal plants Most herbal plants that are therapeutic for hemorrhoids normally contain anti– inflammatory, anti–bacterial, antiseptic and skin rejuvenating properties. These properties help heal open wounds and speed up skin healing or regeneration – a perfect treatment against bleeding hemorrhoids. Their astringent property is responsible for the ability to shrink hemorrhoids. Some good examples are: aloe vera witch hazel Japanese pagoda tree bayberry goldenseal root white oak Most of these plants are applied topically onto the affected area. Ice packs For the pain, you can use ice packs to numb the area. This is a good alternative for those who wish to avoid using painkillers. Ice packs also reduce swelling of hemorrhoid. Always remember not to use ice packs for more than 30 minutes straight. Sitz bath Sitz bath is like placing your anus in a sauna. You sit on top of a warm bath and let the hot steam flow right through your anus. This will promote blood circulation, alleviate pain and reduce swelling. Manual insertion This is simply helping your hemorrhoid go back to where it came from. You use your finger to shove the protruding haemorrhoid back into the anal canal. This is only applicable for mild case of haemorrhoid where bleeding and blood clots are not present. Cushion Use doughnut or toilet shaped cushion when using the toilet. This somehow reduces discomfort when defecating with a hemorrhoid in tow. Laxative, stool softeners and petroleum jelly Like the cushion, laxatives and stool softeners can reduce discomfort by preventing straining and ultimately preventing exacerbating your hemorrhoid. Additionally, you can use petroleum jelly to lubricate your anus. This will help your bowel to move even more smoothly and easily. Moist wipes Use moist wipes in cleaning your anus to prevent rubbing and irritating the affected skin. Most wipes out on the market contains herbal medication such as witch hazel to add more protection to your skin. Good hygiene Keep your anus clean and soap residue free. Leaving soap residues can cause additional irritation. It is also safer to use plain water to wash your anus. Always keep your bottom dry after every wash. All the options above can be categorized under conservative management . Home remedies for hemorrhoids are effective AND private! They are very easy to follow and are applicable to almost all cases and types of hemorrhoid. However, remember the principal rule that if your hemorrhoid is asymptomatic , the best approach is to leave it alone. Most asymptomatic hemorrhoids heal on their own when straining is avoided. Now that you have an idea on how to manage your hemorrhoids at home, do not forget it is still best to consult your doctor about your condition. Easy Method Cures Hemorrhoids Safely in 48 Hours! Re