Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Exercise and Menopause Exercise and Menopause Changing the Way You Think About 
			Nutrition, Fitness, and Health Site Navigation: In this Section: Nutrawize Lifestyle 
            Nutrition Services, LLC Exercise And Menopause There was a time when the word was never 
                spoken, even between a mother and daughter. Menopause, still 
                referred to as 'the change' in some circles, has now come out in 
                to the open. It’s about time. After all, a woman can expect to 
                live one-third to one-half of her life past meno-pause, and 
                these can be among the most satisfying years of her life. Part 
                of the reason for its emergence as a hot health topic is likely 
                due to the increasing body of information on how to manage it. 
                Exercise plays a key role in making the transition through 
                menopause easier and in enhancing health, happiness and 
                productivity during the second half of life. What Is Menopause? The medical definition of menopause is cessation of menses 
                for 12 months, caused when the ovaries stop making the hormones 
                estrogen, progesterone and testosterone. For most women, 
                menopause simply marks the end of their reproductive years. 
                While the average age of menopause is about 51, some women may 
                experience it as early as their thirties or as late as their 
                sixties. Symptoms of menopause include: hot flashes, night 
                sweats, bladder and reproductive tract changes, insomnia, 
                headache, lethargy/fatigue, irritability, anxiety, depression, 
                heart palpitations and joint pain. How Does Exercise Help? The good news is that a regular program of physical activity 
                can help manage the uncomfortable symptoms of menopause as well 
                as the related health concerns, such as heart disease and 
                osteoporosis. The mood-elevating, tension-relieving effects of aerobic 
                exercise help reduce the depression and anxiety that often 
                accompanies menopause. Aerobic exercise also promotes the loss 
                of abdominal fat — the place most women more readily gain weight 
                during menopause. In addition, some research studies have shown 
                that the increased estrogen levels that follow a woman’s 
                exercise session coincide with an overall decrease in the 
                severity of hot flashes. Strength training also helps. It 
                stimulates bones to retain the minerals that keep them dense and 
                strong, thus preventing the onset and progression of 
                osteoporosis. These effects of exercise, along with improved 
                blood fats and physical fitness, work together to help prevent 
                heart disease. Keep in mind, though, that good nutrition works 
                hand in hand with a physically active lifestyle. A low-fat, 
                high-fiber diet and adequate calcium intake are vital in order 
                to reap the full benefits of exercise. The Good News If you have been a consistent exerciser during the years 
                leading to menopause, you already have an advantage. Aerobic 
                activity during childbearing years reduces the risk of breast 
                cancer, a disease that becomes more prevalent after menopause. 
                You also will have a jump on your bone health since your 
                strength-training exercises just may have increased the density 
                and strength of your bones. To reap the benefits of exercise, a balanced program of 
                weight-bearing aerobic activity (walking is great), strength 
                training (with weights, resistance bands, yoga or even 
                gardening), and flexibility is essential. Consistency is key; strive for some moderate 
                activity daily, or at least most days of the week, every week. Menopause And Beyond: Exercise Helps … Reduce and prevent symptoms: Hot flashes Vaginal and bladder atrophy Joint pain Anxiety, irritability, depression Sleep disturbances, insomnia Reduce risk of: Heart disease Osteoporosis Weight gain Improve and increase: Strength, stamina, flexibility, energy Function of vital organs Condition of heart, lungs and muscles This ACE Fit Fact is taken from ACE FitnessMatters® 
            magazine. Want more information like this delivered directly to your 
            home? ACE FitnessMatters, the bi-monthly magazine from the American 
            Council on Exercise (ACE), is the source for the most accurate, 
            up-to-date fitness information you need to live a healthy, active 
            life. Subscribe to ACE FitnessMatters Magazine directly from ACE at http://www.acefitness.org/fitnessmatters/ or call 
            1-800-825-3636. The American Council on Exercise® of San Diego, 
            California (ACE®) does not endorse or promote the companies, 
            products or services that reside on this Web site. ACE does not 
            receive revenue generated from any organizations that advertise on 
            this Web site. Copyright 2003 American Council on Exercise. All 
            Rights Reserved. New at Nutrawize SM ! MedGem ™ Measure your Resting Metabolic 
                    Rate for more 
                    accurate diet and weight loss planning! Beeline Shopper ™ Pantry Evaluations Let us analyze your food purchasing habits. Nutrawize SM Lifestyle 
			Nutrition Services, LLC © 2002-2008 | All Rights Reserved | Home | Contact | 