
NHS Direct Wales - Encyclopaedia : Traction Home News About Us Contact Us Site Map Cymraeg A A A Need Medical Help Now? Encyclopaedia Local Services Lifestyle & Wellbeing Online Enquiry Health Alerts & Events Looking after Yourself Encyclopaedia Back to A-Z Printer Version (opens new window) Traction Introduction How is it performed? Selected links Useful Article? Introduction If you have a broken bone or a condition affecting your muscles, neck or spine, you may find that traction is used as part of your treatment. Traction involves the medical team applying a pulling force to the limbs, soft tissues, pelvis or spine. It can either be used to stretch a single part of the body or to separate two individual parts of the body. More specifically, traction can be used to: realign and fix any bone fractures into a permanent position (a fracture is a clean break in the bone that does not break through the skin) treat muscle spasms (sudden, uncontrollable muscle contractions) rest inflamed or infected joints stretch the soft tissues that surround a joint and reduce pain before surgery is carried out correct a muscle contracture (shortening of a muscle) treat deformities that are caused by conditions such as scoliosis (abnormal curvature of the spine) reduce joint dislocations Types of traction There are two main types of traction that use different methods to apply the pulling force to the body or limbs. They are: skin traction skeletal traction These are described in more detail below. Skin traction Skin traction uses various pieces of equipment, such as splints, adhesive bandages and braces, to apply pressure to the affected area of the body to help support it. A pulling force is applied to the affected area of the body through the soft tissues. The soft tissues support and connect other tissues in the body. They include: skin muscles tendons blood vessels fat Skeletal traction Skeletal traction is used when a greater force needs to be placed on the traction apparatus. The force is applied directly to the skeleton, which means that additional weight can be placed on the apparatus without damaging the surrounding soft tissues. Equipment that is used during skeletal traction includes: pins wires screws tongs (gripping tools) These are surgically implanted into the affected bone. See Traction – How it is performed for more information about skin traction and skeletal traction. Manual traction As well as skin traction and skeletal traction, manual traction is available too, although it is rarely used these days. It is usually carried out by a physiotherapist (a healthcare professional who uses massage and manipulation to promote healing). During manual traction, the physiotherapist applies a pulling force manually to affected body part, either using their hands or a weights machine. ^^ Back to top How is it performed? Skin traction Skin traction is often used to treat fractures of the limbs and hips. The pulling force helps to keep the fractured bones in the correct position before surgery is carried out. Skin traction usually takes place while a person is lying in a hospital bed. It uses apparatus such as: adhesive tape bandages gloves and boots that are attached to weights The weights and affected body parts are pulled up using a pulley system that is attached to the bed. Skeletal traction Skeletal traction is used to treat fractures that require more pulling force than skin traction can supply or when splinting (the use of a rigid support) has not been effective. The skin can usually only support up to 3.5kg (8lb), whereas the skeleton can support up to 12kg (25lb). During skeletal traction, pins or screws will be surgically implanted directly into the bone. This can be done using either a local anaesthetic or general anaesthetic. Local anaesthetic is where the affected area is numbed so that no pain or discomfort is felt during the procedure. If you have a general anaesthetic you will be completely unconscious. After the pins or screws have been implanted, weights will be attached to them to pull the affected body part into the correct position. The amount of time that skeletal traction is required will depend on how severely injured the bones are. Does traction work? Despite being widely used for hundreds of years, there is little in the way of clinical evidence to support the use of traction. For example, there is little evidence to prove that manual traction is an effective treatment for spinal conditions such as: neck pain back pain sciatica – pain that is caused by irritation to, or compression of, the sciatic nerve Several studies have been carried out that either produced inconclusive results or concluded that there were more effective treatments than manual traction, such as physiotherapy and exercise. Skin and skeletal traction do seem to be effective in treating some types of fracture, although some healthcare professionals believe that traction is unnecessary in treating minor fractures. ^^ Back to top Selected links NHS Direct Wales Topics Broken bones Sciatica Scoliosis External Links Health and Safety Executive Back Care Welsh Backs ^^ Back to top Did you find this article useful? Yes, useful. Thanks. No, not useful. Please improve. The information on this page has been adapted by NHS Wales from original content supplied by NHS Choices. Find articles begining with: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Related Articles Tapeworm infections Definition " Tapeworm infections " Tau protein test Definition " also called Beta 2 or desialated transferrin test " Tay-Sachs disease Definition " Genetic disorder affecting the nervous system " Teeth grinding(bruxism) Definition " the habit of grinding and clenching your teeth. " Teething Definition " When a child’s first teeth start to emerge through the gum line " Tendon repair, hand Definition " Tendon repair, hand " Tendonitis Definition " Inflammation of a tendon " Tennis elbow Definition " Lateral Epicondylitis " Testicular lumps, and swellings Definition " Varicocele, hydrocele, epididymal cysts, and testicular torsion " Tests Definition " Diagnostic procedures " Tetanus Definition " Also known as lockjaw " Thalassaemia Definition " A disorder of the red blood cells " Threadworms Definition " An intestinal parasite " Thrombosis Definition " Blood clots " Thrush Definition " Candida albicans, candidosis " Thrush, men Definition " Yeast infection in men caused by Candida albicans " Thyroid, over-active Definition " Hyperthyroidism " Thyroid, under-active Definition " Hypothyroidism " TIBC test Definition " also called transferrin test - checks iron stores " Tick-borne encephalitis Definition " Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is a viral infection of the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) that is spread by tiny blood-sucking parasites called ticks. " Tics Definition " Repeated involuntary movements or sounds " Tietze's syndrome Definition " Inflammation of rib cartilages " Tinnitus Definition " Noise in the ear " Tongue-tie Definition " Tongue-tie " Tonsillitis Definition " A severe throat infection " Tooth decay Definition " A bacterial infection of the teeth " Toothache Definition " Painful tooth " Total protein test Definition " checks liver and kidney function " Tourette's syndrome Definition " A condition involving physical or verbal tics " Toxic shock syndrome Definition " A rare but serious form of acute blood poisoning " Toxocariasis Definition " Infection caused by worms found in dogs and cats " Toxoplasmosis Definition " Infection with Toxoplasma gondii germ " TPMT test Definition " tests for side effects from drug treatment " Tracheostomy Definition " Emergency operation to help breathing " Trachoma Definition " Eye infection with chlamydia trachomatis bacteria " Traction Definition " Gentle pulling usually for broken bones " Tranquillisers Definition " Anti-anxiety medicines " Transient ischaemic attack Definition " A condition caused by a temporary reduction in the blood supply to the brain " Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) Definition " Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) " Travel health Definition " Advice for overseas travellers " Travel sickness Definition " Motion sickness " Travel vaccinations Definition " Travel vaccinations " Travellers' diarrhoea Definition " Travellers' diarrhoea " Tremor (essential) Definition " Involuntary shaking of any part of the body " Trichomoniasis Definition " Infection of the genital area " Trichotillomania Definition " Trichotillomania is a long-term condition in which people pull their hair out. " Trigeminal neuralgia Definition " Painful condition involving the trigeminal nerve in the face " Trigger finger Definition " Inflammation tendon sheaths of fingers or thumb " Tuberculosis Definition " A serious infectious disease usually of the lungs " Tuberous sclerosis Definition " A genetic disorder " Turner's syndrome Definition " Genetic condition only found in women " Typhoid fever Definition " Serious bacterial infection 