Vary: Accept-Encoding

How It Works [ 
        click to enlarge ] 1. 
                Correcting one gene sequence, the DNA produces the proper mRNA that is then translated into the functional protein. 2. 
                How Gene Therapy Works 3. 
                Mechanism of Genetic intervention 4. 
                NPR discusses the use of viral gene 
                delivery 5. 
                A retroviral vector can deliver therapeutic DNA into the target 
                cell, thus repairing the cell 6. 
                An adenovirus vector 7. 
                Vector delivery HOW 
        GENE THERAPY WORKS WHAT 
        DOES GENE THERAPY ENTAIL? The idea behind gene therapy is to provide a “good gene” to replace a 
        “bad gene” in a target cell. In short, the "new" genes make 
        "new" proteins which affect cellular chemistry ( Figure 
        1 ): Scientists 
          can correct for a non-functional gene with a functional one Scientists 
          can correct for an altered gene with a correct one Scientists 
          can alter the regulation of a gene—i.e., the degree to which a gene 
          is “turned on or off” to promote protein synthesis For an audio 
        report on Gene Therapy, select Media 
        Item 2 . POTENTIAL 
        USES FOR GENE THERAPY Gene therapy could be used to treat patients with a disorder caused by 
        mutation in a specific gene. Some examples include: Hemophilia: 
          introduce a normal gene for "factor VIII" that helps blood 
          to clot Sickle-cell 
          anemia: introduce the gene into red blood cells to make normal hemoglobin Cancer: 
          introduce a mutation into an oncogene (a gene that promotes cancer), 
          or provide a functional copy of a tumor suppressor gene HOW ARE THERAPEUTIC GENES DELIVERED TO CELLS? A 
        carrier molecule called a vector ( Figure 
        7 ) must be used to deliver the therapeutic gene to the patient’s target 
        cells. Currently, the most common vector is a virus genetically altered 
        to carry normal human DNA ( Figure 
        3 ). The virus is engineered or “disabled” so that it cannot cause 
        an infection in the patient. Some examples of viruses used for gene therapy 
        include: Retroviruses Adenoviruses Adeno-associated 
          viruses Herpes 
          simplex viruses An NPR 
        Radio Report discusses the use of viruses to deliver genetic material. MORE ON VIRAL VECTORS Different types of viruses used as gene therapy vectors work in slightly 
        different ways. Each has advantages and disadvantages. Retroviruses - A class of viruses that can create double-stranded DNA copies of its 
          RNA. These copies can then be integrated into the chromosomes of host 
          cells. e.g. HIV (see Figure 
          5 ) Adenoviruses - A class of viruses with double-stranded DNA that cause respiratory, 
          intestinal, and eye infections in humans. e.g. common cold (see Figure 
          6 ) Adeno-associated 
          viruses - A class of small, single-stranded DNA viruses that 
          can insert its genetic material at a specific site on chromosome 19 Herpes 
          simplex viruses - A class of double-stranded DNA viruses that 
          infects neurons. Herpes simplex virus type 1 is a common human pathogen 
          that causes cold sores TYPES 
        OF GENE THERAPY There are two main types of gene therapy: Germ 
          line therapy - involves modifying reproductive cells; the genetic 
          alteration is passed on to future generations Somatic 
          cell therapy - involves all other types of cells; the genetic 
          alteration is not passed on to future generations so therapy must be 
          repeated in offspring Advantages of germ line therapy include having a healthy child, efficiency, and cost 
        saving compared to somatic cell gene therapy. Disadvantages to germ line therapy include inherent risks and the possibility of genetic 
        engineering for physical and mental enhancements unrelated