
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 23:48:57 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.64 (Red Hat)
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Brain Injury,Spinal Cord Injury,Amputation Register Username: Password: Home | Statistics | Diagnosis | Type of Spinal Cord Injuries | Anatomy of the Spine | Surgical Procedures | Spinal Cord : Hospitalization | Rehabilitation | Nutrition | Equipment | Health Issue | Medications Spinal Cord Injury Surgical Procedures, Spinal Cord Surgery Traditionally, surgery has not been viewed as the mainstay in treatment for spinal cord injury (SCI). Surgery has generally been reserved for those patients with an incomplete SCI, or for those who experience progressive neurological deterioration. Surgery may be done immediately for blood clots, herniated discs, or other lesions applying pressure to the spinal cord. Surgery for SCI has been aimed at stabilizing the spine in an attempt to prevent further injury or to prevent future pain and deformity. Spinal instrumentation involves using rods, bars, wires and screws to provide permanent stability to the spine to correct and solidify the level where a spinal injury has occurred. Instrumentation may be combined with fusion, or bone grafting, to permanently join two vertebrae together. The use of steroids to treat spinal cord injury has been controversial for many years. There is evidence that the use of steroids helps to decrease the swelling that occurs as a result of SCI. Steroids must be given as soon as possible after the initial injury in order to have the desired effect, usually within eight hours, and are given for up to 48 hours after injury. Steroids may help to prevent further injury, but will not return the patient to their previous functioning. The most widely studied steroid for the treatment of SCI is Methylprednisolone. There is some new evidence that early surgical intervention to decompress the spinal cord may significantly improve patient outcomes and reduce the risk of complications. A recent STASCIS (Surgical Treatment of Acute Spinal Cord Injury Study) study has found that 24% of patients who received decompressive surgery within 24 hours of injury showed a significant improvement in ASIA scores. Additionally, patients studied who received early surgical decompression suffered 20% less complications than those patients who had delayed surgical intervention. Recommendations from the Spine Study Trauma Group, a group composed of 40 of the world’s top spine surgeons, are that patients with SCI who have no other major injuries should undergo spinal decompression within 24 hours of injury, and that SCI should be treated as a medical emergency, much like strokes and heart attacks, where treatment must be instituted as soon as possible to achieve the best patient outcome possible. Contact Us for Free Information Help for injury victims and their families Call (800) 669-7700 Now Name: City: State: Select AL AK AZ AR CA CO CT DE DC FL GA HI ID IL IN IA KS KY LA ME MD MA MI MN MS MO MT NE NV NH NJ NM NY NC ND OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VT VA WA WV WI WY PR VI MP GQ AS PA Email: Phone: Date Injured: Type of Injury: Select Injury Type Spinal Cord Injury Brain Injury Amputation Injury I am the injured party I am contacting you on behalf of the injured party Would you like to learn more about your legal rights? Yes No code: What is 3 plus 4? Disclaimer | Medical Care Guide | Legal Services | Resources | Discussion Forum | Contact Us | My Profile | Links Press Release | Sitemap | Related Info | Articles | Head Injury This site is sponsored by The Law Offices of Robert A. Brenner.
Copyright © 2001 - 2011. All rights reserved. PRIVACY PROTECTED PRIVACY POLICY Catastrophic Injury respects your privacy. We store your information in a secure database and never sell your information. We will not share it with unaffiliated parties unless required to by law. If you have any questions please email us at info@catastrophicinjury.com PRIVACY PROTECTED PRIVACY POLICY Catastrophic Injury respects your privacy. We store your information in a secure database and never sell your information. We will not share it with unaffiliated parties unless required to by law. If you have 