<http://wp.me/Petws-8M>; rel=shortlink

Melatonin | Bioethics Ireland Bioethics Ireland from the pen of Dónal O'Mathúna, PhD Skip to content Home Bioethics Christian Ethics The Bible & Ethics January January 5 January 6 January 13 January 15 January 21 January 23 January 26 February February 1 February 2 February 7 February 9 February 15 February 19 February 26 February 27 March March 3 March 17 March 20 March 22 March 23 March 31 April April 4 April 6 April 15 April 18 April 24 April 27 May May 12 May 20 May 26 June June 2 June 9 June 18 July July 8 July 30 August August 7 August 13 August 19 September September 3 September 15 September 23 October October 15 October 27 October 31 November November 30 December December 6 December 12 December 25 December 31 Complementary & Alternative Medicine CAM Articles Herbal Remedies Herbs A Aloe Aristolochia Arnica Artichoke Herbs B Bee products Bilberries Black cohosh Herbs C Capsaicin Carnitine Cascara Cat’s claw Chamomile Chamomile Chondroitin Chromium Cinnamon Cod liver oil Coenzyme Q10 Comfrey Cranberry juice Creatine Herbs D Dandelion Devil’s claw Dong quai Herbs E Echinacea Elderberries Ephedra Evening primrose Herbs F Fenugreek Feverfew Herbs G Garlic Ginkgo Ginseng Glucomannan Glucosamine Goldenseal Grapefruit seed extract Green tea Guarana Guggul Herbs H Hawthorn Hoodia Horse chestnut Herbs I Herbs K Kava Herbs L Lavender Lecithin Lutein Herbs M Melatonin Milk thistle Herbs N Herbs O Omega fats Herbs P Passion flower Peppermint Pomegranate Probiotics Psyllium Pycnogenol Pygeum Herbs Q Herbs R Reishi Rhodiola Herbs S SAM-e Saw palmetto Senna Shark cartilage Stevia Herbs T Tea tree oil Herbs V Valerian Vitamin C Herbs W Wild yams Witch hazel Zinc Herbs Y Herbs Z Evidence & Practice Disaster Bioethics End of Life Forum Global Health Nanoethics Nanoethics publications Science & Christianity Start of Life Ban cloning Cat clones Cloning embryos Stem Cell Research Torture Comments Melatonin People’s reactions to melatonin can vary The Irish Times Health Supplement, p. 13 3 June 2008 DOES IT WORK? Melatonin and insomnia As summer holidays approach, plans of travelling to far-away places will be on the horizon. The excitement can be dampened by thoughts of jet lag. This differs from general travel tiredness because a good night’s sleep generally doesn’t overcome it. Jet lag is caused by our natural ‘body clock’ being thrown out of sequence by crossing time zones. On average, for every three time zones crossed, it takes two days for the body clock to adjust. During the adjustment, sleeping difficulties and problems with concentration and mood are common. Our body clock impacts sleep-wake patterns, body temperature, mood and several hormones. Flying through time zones leaves these cycles out of sync with one another. Several factors influence the body’s rhythms, including exposure to light and dark, exercise, food and a hormone called melatonin. The body’s production of melatonin cycles during the day, influenced by light and darkness. This has led to much interest in melatonin as a treatment for jet lag. Melatonin is available in Ireland only by prescription, although it is classified elsewhere as a dietary supplement. Evidence from studies Melatonin levels are highest during the night and lowest during the day. Its levels start increasing around the time people start feeling sleepy. People who produce abnormally low levels of melatonin often have insomnia and melatonin has been used to successfully treat this condition. However, on average, people fell asleep only 10-15 minutes faster when taking melatonin compared to placebo. Studies involving melatonin and jet lag have had conflicting results. A systematic review is a carefully structured way to summarise the results of several different studies. One published in 2003 concluded that melatonin provided some modest protection against jet lag, while one published in 2006 concluded that melatonin was ineffective. Some of the older studies were poorly designed and many were very small. A difficulty with this research is that people vary a lot in how and to what degree jet lag affects them and then how they respond to melatonin. Another problem studying any sleep aid is the power of the placebo effect. One study found that the quality of people’s sleep improved significantly after they were told they would receive melatonin, but before they actually received any melatonin. Problematic aspects Melatonin normally does not cause side effects. However, anyone with liver or kidney problems should not take it as these problems may allow its level to build up in the body. Taking any hormone orally can suppress the body’s normal production of that hormone. This may lead to sleep problems once the tablets are stopped. Some people experience drowsiness and dizziness after taking melatonin, which is usually worse with alcohol or other sleeping tablets. Do not drive within 4 or 5 hours of taking melatonin. Recommendations Different things help people adjust more quickly to new time zones. These depend on whether flying was to the east or the west, and how many time zones were passed through. In general, jet lag is negligible if fewer than three time zones were crossed. If staying three days or less, keep to your home schedule as closely as possible. Sleeping during a flight should be limited to coincide with night-time at the destination. After flying to the west, direct sunlight should be avoided later in the day, while after flying east avoid early morning light. To stay alert in the new time zone, caffeine can be helpful, as can light exercise. Melatonin may be worth discussing with your doctor, especially if jet lag has been particularly problematic in the past. People respond best to up to 5 mg at the destination’s night-time on the day of arrival and for up to 5 days after arrival. People vary widely in how much melatonin helps them, but it may be worth trying. Products available elsewhere as dietary supplements may not be manufactured to the same quality as those available on prescription. Back to Herbal Remedies list Search this site Search for: Bioethics Centres Center for Bioethics & Human Dignity Center for Bioethics & Culture Hastings Center Irish Council for Bioethics Linacre Centre for Healthcare Ethics Nuffield Council on Bioethics UNESCO Bioethics University of Minnesota Center for Bioethics University of Pennsylvania Center for Bioethics US National Catholic Bioethics Center WHO list of National Bioethics Councils Bioethics in the News New Issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association is Now Available New Issue of The New England Journal of Medicine is Now Available Warning over online ’smart drugs’ that can kill Fertility treatment bans in Europe drive future parents abroad, draw criticism Brazil’s supreme court decriminalizes abortions in cases where fetuses develop without brains Experts Divided on Texas Medical Board’s Plan to Regulate Stem Cell Treatments Dangers of Chinese Medicine Brought to Light by DNA Studies Medical Tattoo Looks to Replace Bulky Devices Uzbekistan’s policy of secretly sterilising women WHO: Dementia cases worldwide will triple to over 115 million by 2050 © Dónal O’Mathúna 2009-2012 Bioethics Ireland Theme: Twenty Ten Blog at WordPress.com . Follow Follow “Bioethics Ireland” Get ever