
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 02:37:10 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

May 2011 Newsletter - Spacio Spa 3 Mother’s Day Gifts She’ll
Love We all know that our health is an important part of living a happy, healthy, full life. So, what better way to show your mom that you care and love her than to give her the gift of good health? Make this Mother's Day extra special with one
of these fantastic, yet healthy, gift ideas: A
Spa Experience: A day at the spa will help one to
release and manage stress, detox and rid impurities, and refresh skin
to look and feel its best. If you can’t afford to give mom a full day
at the spa, give her a 1/2 day or multiple treatment packages that will
give your mom a blissful and health-packed experience. Simply call us
and we’ll customize the ideal experience for your MOM. Or you can also
stop by and we’ll provide you with suggestions on how to spa at home. A
Package of Mind-Body Classes: Mind-Body classes
include
Yoga, Tai Chi, Pilates and Qigong, among others. They all offer
benefits of health. Most take a broad holistic approach that teaches
people a new lifestyle, way of thinking and way of being in the world.
Some physical benefits include: Increased strength and flexibility,
more toned, longer and leaner muscles, relaxation and stress relief,
increased energy and vitality, and detoxification. A
Healthy Library: Help your mom stay up-to-date with
books that help her create a well-balanced, healthy lifestyle. Make it
a holistic gift by purchasing books that cover various topics of
wellness, such as nutrition, fitness and mental well-being. Here are a
few to consider: Get Real and STOP Dieting! Even if your mom knows what she should be doing to eat healthy, it
isn’t always easy to put it
into practice. This book teaches readers five of the most important
rules to eat healthy. Discover 40 recipes that are easy to prepare,
no-fail grocery lists, a guide on reading nutrition labels, healthy
substitutions for unhealthy ingredients, healthy portion sizes with a
visual guide and more. 90-Second Fitness Solution Strength training is an important part of a fitness program, especially
as women get older.
Help mom to build some muscle while strengthening her bones with this
easy guide on introducing strength training into one’s fitness regimen.
The program also includes exercises that can be done without any
equipment, making it doable at home. Solemate: Master the Art of
Aloneness and Transform Your Life This book helps individuals to understand their true self, their needs
and what makes them happy. It is a great book to inspire your mom to
find
happiness from within, to nurture self-love, to reach her goals and her
aspirations, and to conquer her fears in doing so. Wishing you and your mom a wonderful Mother’s Day! MIGRAINES by
Michelle Leno Migraines are miserable - ask anyone who suffers from them! They can be absolutely debilitating and have a profound effect on one's quality of life. Symptoms
can range from mild to severe, lasting an hour to several days. People
often describe the pain as a "pounding" or "throbbing" sensation that
takes over one side of their head. And, for some, migraines can be so
severe they produce accessory symptoms such as nausea or vomiting,
sensitivity to external stimuli (light, noise, or scent), blurred
vision and extreme fatigue. While
the etiology for migraines is unknown, it is speculated that they are
caused by a vulnerable nervous system that is highly sensitive to
changes in one's internal or external environment. This increased
sensitivity is associated with serotonin metabolism and vasodilatation
of the blood vessels surrounding the skull. Decreased serotonin (the
happy hormone) levels seem to be linked to the onset of a migraine,
which affects the brain’s processing and triggers the release of
chemicals that cause painful inflammation and activate the sympathetic
nervous system (fight or flight mode). Incidentally, people that suffer
from chronic migraines also have a tendency to suffer from depression
and anxiety. Western
medicine treats migraines with anti-inflammatory drugs (such as
ibuprofen and naproxen), barbiturates, caffeine, and anti-depressants.
A combination of these medications may be used in treating migraine
symptoms that are especially severe. All of these medications do
nothing to treat the underlying cause of the pathology and often lead
to other problems. All medications are synthetic and thus put strain on
the liver and lymphatic system. Barbiturates are habit forming and
cause drowsiness. SSRIs can lower libido and affect one’s sex life. In
Chinese medicine, migraines are considered a disorder of the liver. The
liver according to Chinese medicine dictates the flow of energy
throughout the body and is closely associated with the nervous system,
hormone regulation, and blood pressure. It is also the organ that is
most affected by both internal and external stress. Research
has shown that acupuncture is an effective and safe modality in
treating migraines. Acupuncture uses the insertion of tiny needles in
specific points to regulate the Liver and correct the body’s
dysfunction. Acupuncture
helps to: regulate brain chemistry by increasing
serotonin, calm the nervous system, improve blood circulation, regulate hormone fluctuations, and decrease inflammation. As the body begins to function more effectively,
migraine intensity and frequency are reduced drastically! Don't be miserable! Call SPACIO today for a free consultation with
Michelle Leno, LAc . We’ll discuss alternatives to the medication your
taking and plan a course of action that will help decrease the
intensity and frequency of your migraines. Let's treat the root of the
problem, not just the branch...soon you'll find other areas of your
health improving and you'll be so much happier and healthier! Read more about acupuncture and its affect on chronic headaches and
migraines at WebMD: Acupuncture
Eases Migraine Headache Pain How to Ensure Your Water is Safe Most people
would think that drinking water is healthy and safe. Unfortunately,
your drinking water may not be as healthful as you would
think. Water in various regions contain toxic levels of
chemicals
and substances, including: arsenic, barium, lead, manganese and nickel,
amongst others. These substances are at high enough levels that
they may increase your risk for developing cancer, skin disorders,
kidney and nervous system problems, and other health issues. This, however, doesn’t mean you should stop
drinking water.  After
all, drinking water is very important to your health.  So, what
can you do to ensure your water is safe? Check Online: Find out how
your local area is
doing in regards to its water supply. A great tool can be found here: http://projects.nytimes.com/toxic-waters/polluters . Municipal Report Card: You
can get a municipal water report or consumer confidence report from
your local city. Your town or city is
required by law to provide consumers with this information. In these
reports, you will see what harmful toxins and chemical exist
in your water and how much. Filter, Filter, Filter: Use a
filter for your drinking water, at a
minimum. If your water is contaminated, bathing in the water can
be harmful as well.  So, you should also consider filtering your
bath water. Pitchers: Because they require refilling,
pitchers are good for a single person or a couple. I’m a fan of Brita￼
But Pur is also a
good product. Faucet Filters: If you have a family, tap
filters are better because
you don’t have to constantly refill your water pitchers. You can
often just attach them to the faucet. Shower Filters: Shower filters act
similarly to your faucet filters. At Home Water Test: Test your
own water with an at home water
test. WaterSafe Test ￼is a good product and can be purchased on
Amazon. Flush Your System: Debris and
elements like
lead can dissolve into your
water, the longer the water sits in pipes. If water hasn’t been
run for more than six hours, run your faucet/shower for at least a
minute or so to help flush the water out until it gets cold. To
help conserve the unused water, reuse the water for washing dishes,
clothes or watering plants. Always Use Cold Water for
Drinking/Cooking: Hot
water tends to dissolve unwanted toxins more quickly than cold water.
As a result, only
use cold water for drinking, making coffee, cooking or even making
juice from concentrate or baby formula. If you want hot water to
drink, heat cold water on the stove or microwave. Take Yours to Go: If you are
exercising
outdoors, make sure that you take your own water in a safe water bottle
to ensure that you are
drinking filtered water. Many park or public water fountains are
not filtered. Stay hydrated, but keep it clean with these tips and you’ll be good to
go! HEALTHY CHOCOLATE SMOOTHIE If you love chocolate , this
protein smoothie will have you swooning. Besides being high in fiber
and protein, you’ll get a healthy dose of antioxidants as a result of
the unsweetened cocoa. Ingredients: 1 Pear 2 Tbsp unsweetened baking cocoa powder 2 Tbsp raw oats 1 scoop organic whey protein 1 tsp cinnamon 3/4 cup water Directions: Put ingredients in a blender and blend until
smooth. Drink immediately. Nutritional Value per Serving Servings per Recipe: 1 Calories: 267 Protein: 22.3 gm / 35% of Calories Carbohydrates: 38.9 gm / 55% of Calories Fiber: 11.6 gm Fat: 2.8 gm / 10% of Calories J OIN US ON FACEBOOK! Spacio fans receive special offers and
discounts. Become a fan of Spacio Spa today! STOP BY: SPACIO SPA 2706 N HALSTED ST, C