
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Microsoft-IIS/5.0
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 09:06:59 GMT
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Set-Cookie: CFID=10832991;path=/
Set-Cookie: CFTOKEN=80f8a22a743310e2%2D6DE0D6CB%2DCBBA%2DF61A%2DE31D8E3DC391B106;path=/
Set-Cookie: CFCLIENT_AAFA=;expires=Tue, 04-Feb-2042 09:06:59 GMT;path=/
Set-Cookie: CFGLOBALS=urltoken%3DCFID%23%3D10832991%26CFTOKEN%23%3D80f8a22a743310e2%2D6DE0D6CB%2DCBBA%2DF61A%2DE31D8E3DC391B106%23lastvisit%3D%7Bts%20%272012%2D02%2D12%2004%3A06%3A59%27%7D%23timecreated%3D%7Bts%20%272012%2D02%2D11%2014%3A25%3A46%27%7D%23hitcount%3D408%23cftoken%3D80f8a22a743310e2%2D6DE0D6CB%2DCBBA%2DF61A%2DE31D8E3DC391B106%23cfid%3D10832991%23;expires=Tue, 04-Feb-2042 09:06:59 GMT;path=/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America - Information About Asthma, Allergies, Food Allergies and More! Education Advocacy Research ASTHMA ALLERGIES AAFA Asthma Overview | Allergic Asthma | Non-Allergic Asthma | Allergy Overview | Indoor | Outdoor | Food and Drug | Latex | Insect | Skin | Eye | About AAFA | Make a Donation | Sponsors | Special Programs | Contact Us | You Can Help! Take Action Certification Program Educational Resources Ask the Allergist Find a Chapter Find a Support Group Find a Clinic Health Professionals En Español Newsroom Contact AAFA Login 1-800-7-ASTHMA info@aafa.org Alternative Therapies What is Alternative Medicine? Any unproven treatment for an illness or disease is considered an alternative medical approach by most American medical doctors. "Unproven" means there is not enough acceptable scientific evidence to show that the treatment works. The term alternative medicine refers to a wide variety of treatments considered outside "mainstream" or "usual" medical approaches in the United States today. Many people turn to alternative medicine to help alleviate their asthma or allergy symptoms. These treatment approaches may include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: Acupuncture Ayruvedic medicine Biofeedback; mental imaging; stress reduction; Relaxation techniques Chiropractic spinal manipulation Diet, exercise, yoga, lifestyle changes Herbal medicine, vitamin supplements Folk medicine from various cultures Laser therapy Massage Hypnosis Art or music therapy Why People Use Alternative Medicine? Recent statistics show that nearly 40 percent of Americans try some form of alternative medicine. Medical and scientific experts do believe that some remedies may be worth a try, providing they are not harmful. In some cases, specific alternative medical treatment may improve or relieve symptoms of a specific illness or disease. Risks should not outweigh the potential benefits. If you believe a particular alternative medical approach might help reduce your asthma or allergy symptoms, talk with your doctor about it, and how you could integrate that treatment into your overall asthma/allergy management plan. No one should use alternative medicine without first consulting a board-certified physician. Any alternative medical approach should be used in addition to your normal asthma or allergy management plan. You should not substitute an alternative medical treatment for your regular medications or treatments. Be especially careful about use of alternative medicine on children. Approaches that are harmless for adults may not be harmless for children! Does Health Insurance Cover Alternative Medical Treatment? Health plans vary in what alternative medicine expenses they will pay. Many plans provide coverage for some but not all alternative therapies. If your doctor writes you a prescription for a specific treatment such as acupuncture or massage, you may be more likely to get partial or full reimbursement of the expense. Always check with your insurance provider before assuming the coverage is available. What are Cautions or Considerations for People Who Use Alternative Medicine? Beware the placebo effect! If you really want an alternative medical treatment to work, you may think it is working, even if it really isn't! This "placebo effect" often occurs for people using alternative medicine. Symptoms of asthma or allergy also may improve on their own as an illness (like a cold or flu) runs its course. If you use prescribed medications for your allergy or asthma symptoms, it may take time for them to "kick in." So you may simply be feeling better because your medications started working—not because the alternative medicine is working. Read between the label lines! The federal government requires labels to state how an herb or vitamin may affect the body but labels are not required to carry health warnings. Labels also cannot claim any medical or health benefit. Products often are not properly labeled, especially those imported from other countries. Many people experience toxic—and sometimes deadly—effects from improperly using labeled herbs. Some products contain unnamed medicines such as steroids, anti-inflammatories or sedatives that act to reduce your symptoms. Other "hidden ingredients" in various products can be dangerous or even lethal. Use products tested for safety and effectiveness. Follow directions! Never increase the amount or frequency of a dose or use a treatment or device in a different way than recommended. Do not use herbs in combinations. Do not take herbs if you are pregnant or breast feeding. Beware of developing allergy symptoms! Allergies to specific plants and other substances (such as latex or nickel) can build up over time. Products you've used for years may suddenly cause mild to serious allergy symptoms, especially if you already are allergic to something. Check to see if new herbs, foods or other products you plan to use are in the same "family" as your known allergens. Use quality products and services! Lack of quality standards is a serious problem for people who use various alternative medical treatments. Look for products that list the amount of the active ingredient(s). Make sure people giving you any kind of treatment are properly certified. Ask your pharmacist or health product store manager for recommendations. Research the product or service before you use it. Consult with your physician before starting any new treatment! This point cannot be stressed enough. If you have symptoms of asthma or allergy, but you have not been diagnosed, consult a board-certified doctor for a proper diagnosis. Do not rely on health product store personnel to help treat undiagnosed symptoms. If you know you have asthma or allergies, again, talk with your doctor about the alternative medicine you want to use—before you try it. Are there Useful Alternative Therapies for People who have Asthma or Allergies? Keep in mind: alternative therapy is medical treatment for which there is no conclusive, supporting scientific evidence. This does not necessarily mean the treatment is useless or ineffective. You simply must be careful in what you choose and how you use it. Acupuncture. A technique that involves inserting needles into key points of the body. Evidence suggests that acupuncture may signal the brain to release endorphins. These are hormones made by the body. When released, endorphins can help reduce pain and create a sense of well being. People with asthma or allergy may experience more relaxed or calmer breathing. Users should be aware of the risk of contaminated needles or punctured organs. Biofeedback. A technique that helps people control involuntary physical responses. Results are mixed, with children and teenagers showing the greatest benefit. Chiropractic spinal manipulation. A technique that emphasizes manipulation of the spine in order to help the body heal itself. There is no evidence that this treatment impairs the underlying disease or pulmonary function. Hypnosis. An artificially induced dream state that leaves the person open to suggestion, hypnosis is a legitimate technique to help people manage various conditions. Hypnosis might give people with asthma or allergies more self-discipline to follow good health practices. Laser treatment. A technique that uses high intensity light to shrink swollen tissue or unblock sinuses. Laser therapy may provide temporary relief, but it may also cause scarring or other long-term physical problems. Massage, relaxation techniques, art/music therapy, yoga. Stress and anxiety may cause your airways to constrict more if you have asthma or allergies. Various techniques can help you relax, reduce anxiety or control your breathing. The results may provide some benefit in helping you cope with asthma or allergy symptoms. However, evidence is not conclusive that these techniques improve lung function. SOURCE: This information should not substitute for seeking responsible, professional medical care. First created 1995; fully updated 1998; most recently updated 2005. © Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America (AAFA) Editorial Board Privacy P