Content-Type: text/html; Charset=ISO-8859-1
Set-Cookie: vsettings=; expires=Wed, 06-Feb-2013 08:00:00 GMT; path=/
Cache-control: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding, User-Agent

Home | Products | Specials | About Us | FAQ's | Shipping View Cart | My Account Search: CLA Extraction Bags Manna 360 All Products Diabetes Health Gifts Men's Health Sexual Health Skin & Hair Care Weight Loss Wellness Aids Join our mailing list! Home > All Products > KegelMaster Kegelmaster

Your KegelMaster will include a plastic storage case and instructions, as well as a DVD. Our Price: $91.96 GoogleProduct: y Product Code: 1261-20 Qty: Description Incontinence & Kegel Exercises Incontinence is sometimes temporary, caused by pregnancy, a urinary tract infection, a vaginal infection, constipation or some specific medications. But incontinence can also be caused by muscular problems, changes in the pelvic region after childbirth, a hormone imbalance, or a neurologic disorder. Kegel exercises are the typical prescription whatever the case. You will find many websites describing the "kegel exercises" that were discovered by Dr. Arnold Kegel over 50 years ago. That is because Kegels are the most significant discovery to help women with incontinence problems. Originally Kegel exercises were done just by women after childbirth to rebuild the vaginal muscles and help with stress incontincence. Later Dr. Kegel discovered that muscle weakness could be found in most women over 40, causing pelvic discomfort, bladder dysfunction and sexual disturbances. From that he concluded that all women should be doing a variable resistance pelvic floor muscle exercise for their general health. The Problem With Plain Kegel Exercises What most of what most of these websites won't tell you is that Dr. Kegel's invention was not just a pelvic floor muscle exerciser, but a Biofeedback device called the "Kegel Perineometer". The important difference between what people are calling a kegel exercise what Dr. Kegel discovered is the "Biofeedback" part. That means that while the exercise is being done, the exerciser is given feedback on how they are doing. None of the exercises or devices available on the market today provide this feedback ... except for the Kegelmaster. Most women who just "do" kegels usually have minimal results due to the lack variable resistance and no feedback to determine if they are doing the exercise properly. The most common problem is contraction of the abdominal muscles at the same time as the PC muscle. When this occurs the abdominal muscles (which are bigger and stronger) push down on the pelvic floor and can actually make the problem worse. That is why the Kegelmaster was invented. It is the first and only (patented) kegel exerciser to provide both progressive resistance and biofeedback in a compact, inexpensive and easy to use device. Enhancing Sex & Kegel Exercises The Kegelmaster offers women a way to rapidly improve vaginal muscle strength and tone. By doing so, women have experienced great sexual benefits by adding resistance to simple kegel exercises. Some women have reported being able to have an orgasm after having years of difficulties. Other women have stated that after the first use of the Kegelmaster they were able to have more intense orgasms. Although women have said they are having stronger more satisfying orgasms, they are also saying they are easily having multiple orgasms. So what is the key to the success stories of these women? By adding progressive dynamic resistance to Kegel exercises, women have used the Kegelmaster to strengthen the vaginal walls and tone the muscles responsible for such orgasms. We have assembled a complete website on this topic if you'd like to learn more about the Kegelmaster. Average Customer Review: Based on 3 reviews Write a review. 0 of 0 people found the following review helpful: This is a must have to get back in shape April 2, 2009 Reviewer: 
                        Antonia W
                        from Chicago, IL  United States My uterus and bladder were dropping and my Doctor recommended this to me, instead of surgery. I can now walk through the mall (without running to the bathroom 10 times), and I can walk 45 min a day with 3lb weights. I could not do this before I started using the KegelMaster. This is an incredible device that has saved me from a life of misery. I recommend this to every woman, this will strenghten your muscles. Was this review helpful to you? 18 of 18 people found the following review helpful: It really works! September 4, 2007 Reviewer: 
                        Maggie This wonderful device literally saved me from having to have repeat bladder repair surgery.  7 Years after my surgery, I began to have prolapse problems again. My doctor sent me to PT who specializes in women's health. She prescribed kegel exercises. She and my doctor were very impressed with the results gained from using the kegel master.  I am still using it 5 years later, the prolapse has pretty much reversed itself and best of all, and I did NOT need surgery again! It works, try it, you have nothing to lose buy your incontinence and prolapse problems! It strengthens the muscles needed to support the pelvic floor and hold everything where it's supposed to be, it works just like it says it does. Was this review helpful to you? 14 of 18 people found the following review helpful: I love my Kegelmaster July 10, 2007 Reviewer: 
                        CL
                        from Frankfurt, Germany I feel this (Kegelmaster) is the best investment I could have made for my self... love it...... I already feel different.  :-) thanks, CL Was this review helpful to you? Browse for more products in the same category as this item: Wellness Aids All Products Wellness Aids > Women's Health About Us | Privacy
			Policy | Send Us Feedback | Bookmark Us | Terms
of Use | Product Index | Category
Index | Help Toll-Free  1-(888)-779-7177 | International 1(916)-987-4858 6326 Main Avenue | Suite 22 | Orangvale CA 95662 Copyright © 2009 Wellness Partners. All Rights Reserved. Ecommerce Web
	

Site Design by Volusion These statements have not been evaluated by the US FDA.  The products 

and content located herein are not intended to tre