Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

20 Top Herbs for Health, Best Herbal Remedies 20 Top Herbs for
Health by Maria Noel Mandile 20
        must-have herbs for your medicine cabinet: you can count on these herbs
        to treat your health problems—without the side effects of drugs -
        Consumer guide: how to be an educated consumer Luckily for us, we live at a time when
        researchers gather new information about herbs almost daily. And they're
        confirming that sometimes herbs just work better than prescription and
        over-the-counter medicines. For example, deglycyrrhizinated licorice
        heals ulcers without the risk of severe bleeding that accompanies
        prescription ulcer medicines. And St. John's wort lifts mild and
        moderate depression without squashing your libido or making you sleepy
        the way prescription antidepressants do. Here we reveal the 20 herbs
        that experts say you can count on to safely treat common chronic
        ailments. Acid Reflux The Best Herb: If you suffer from acid
        reflux, deglycyrrhizinated licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra), or DGL, could
        make meals more pleasant. DGL coats your esophagus, protecting it from
        irritating stomach acid, and reduces painful inflammation in your
        esophagus, says Rob McCaleb, president of the Herb Research Foundation
        in Boulder, Colo. Researchers haven't yet studied DGL's effect on acid
        reflux, but previous studies have confirmed that the herb eases
        inflammation, pain, and other disorders of the gastrointestinal system. The Best Dose: Chew two 250 mg wafers 20
        minutes before you eat a large, spicy, or acidic meal, and take up to
        six wafers a day. DGL must make direct contact with your esophagus to
        help, so chewable DGL wafers provide the best relief. Do not substitute
        any form of regular licorice for DGL because regular licorice can
        increase your blood pressure. And do not use DGL if you are pregnant or
        nursing. Anxiety The Best Herb: Relief can be yours within
        a few hours when you take kava kava (Piper methysticum), which appears
        to calm your nervous system by binding to the brain receptors that
        promote relaxation. This year scientists reviewed n well-designed human
        studies on the herb and concluded that kava kava effectively and safely
        quelled anxiety. You may have seen news stories warning against kava
        kava because it may cause liver damage, but McCaleb says these findings
        have not been substantiated in adults with healthy livers. "The
        major anti-anxiety herb is still kava," he says. The Best Dose: There are two ways to take
        kava kava. Take 400 to 500 mg of powdered kava kava capsules up to six
        times a day until your anxiety subsides. Or stir 1 teaspoon of powdered
        kava kava (sold in some natural food stores) into 1 cup of hot water.
        Let it steep for five minutes, strain it, and drink up to six cups a day
        until your anxiety subsides. If you don't like the taste, stir in a
        teaspoon of honey. You should begin to notice an improvement a few hours
        after the first dose, but the best results occur after a month or more
        of regular use. Do not use kava kava with alcohol, if you are a heavy
        drinker, or if you have existing liver problems like hepatitis. Do not
        use kava kava while pregnant or nursing. Arthritis The Best Herb: "I've used boswellia
        (Boswellia serrata) with my arthritis patients for the last 10 years
        with dramatic results," says Chris D. Meletis, N.D., dean of
        naturopathic medicine at the National College of Naturopathic Medicine
        in Portland, Ore. The herb relieves symptoms of both osteoarthritis and
        rheumatoid arthritis. Meletis adds that people who don't respond well to
        other natural treatments like glucosamine often improve with boswellia. Both kinds of arthritis involve
        inflammation, and boswellia appears to inhibit the chemicals that
        trigger inflammation. Research on its use for osteoarthritis is
        preliminary, but herbalists we consulted say it works for their
        patients. As for rheumatoid arthritis, more than xo placebo-controlled
        German studies show that boswellia significantly reduces pain, swelling,
        and morning stiffness. Researchers concluded that the herb works as well
        as conventional therapies like aspirin and has fewer side effects. The Best Dose: Take 400 mg of boswellia,
        standardized to approximately 65 percent boswellic acids, three times a
        day. You'll need to take it daily for at least a week to experience
        relief. The herb is safe to use indefinitely, but it causes mild stomach
        upset in some people. It hasn't been tested for safety in pregnant and
        nursing women, so consult your practitioner before taking it. Asthma The best Herb: The Middle Eastern herb
        khella (Ammi visnaga) helps halt asthma attacks before they start, says
        David Winston, a Broadway, N.J.-based herbalist and director of the
        Herbal Therapeutics Research Library, who has used the herb successfully
        with asthmatic patients. Scientists don't completely understand how
        khella works, but they do know that it dilates your bronchial passages,
        relaxing the same smooth muscles that spasm during asthma attacks, which
        allows you to breathe easier. The Best Dose: Because of the serious
        nature of asthma, use this herb under the supervision of a health care
        professional, says Christopher Hobbs, L.Ac., a Davis, Calif.-based
        herbalist and acupuncturist. Take 1/4 teaspoon of khella liquid extract
        twice a day. You should begin to notice improvements in two to four
        days, and they'll gradually increase over time. If your asthma is
        triggered by allergies, take khella daily during your allergy season.
        But if you suffer from year-round asthma, take khella continuously. Do
        not use khella to stop an asthma attack once it starts; stick with
        conventional drugs for that. Do not use khella if you are pregnant or
        nursing. The herb may make you more sensitive to sunlight, so wear
        sunblock whenever you go outside for longer than 15 minutes. Congestive Heart
        Failure The Best Herb: If you suffer from
        congestive heart failure and live in Germany, your doctor is likely to
        treat you with hawthorn (Crataegus monogyna) a respected heart treatment
        in that country. The herb improves your heart's ability to pump blood,
        improves blood flow, tones and relaxes your blood vessels, and has an
        excellent safety record, says Adriane FughBerman, M.D., a Washington,
        D.C.-based alternative medicine researcher and assistant clinical
        professor at George Washington University School of Medicine. A 2001
        German study of 88 patients with congestive heart failure found that
        after three months of taking hawthorn, the patients could exercise
        longer, were less likely to feel fatigued, and had a better quality of
        life. The Best Dose: Because of the serious
        nature of congestive heart failure and because hawthorn may enhance the
        effect of some heart medications, work with your doctor if you want to
        start taking it. You can use it in one of two ways: Try 1/2 teaspoon of
        hawthorn solid extract two or three times a day. (You'll find this paste
        in some natural food stores and on websites.) Or try 120 to 240 mg in
        capsule form three times a day. The herb requires four to eight weeks to
        take effect and you'll need to take it indefinitely. Depression The Best Herb: St. John's wort (Hypericum
        perforatum) remains the undisputed champion for mild to moderate
        depression, says James A. Duke, Ph.D., a Fulton, Md.-based herbalist and
        retired USDA botanist. (But it does not treat severe depression, he
        adds.) More than 30 double-blind studies have been done on this roadside
        flower, and researchers have concluded it's just as effective as its
        pharmaceutical counterparts Zoloft and Prozac, but has half the side
        effects. Despite all this research, experts still don't know exactly how
        St. John's wort works. It may lower stress hormones in your body or
        mimic the action of feel-good neurotransmitters in your brain. The Best Dose: You can use St. John's
        wort one of two ways: Take 300 mg of St. John's wort, standardized to
        0.3 percent hypericin, three to four times daily with meals, recommends
        Paul Saunders, N.D., Ph.D., naturopath and professor at the Canadian
        College of Naturopathic Medicine in Toronto. Or take 30 drops of a
        standardized liquid extract in a few ounces of water four times a day.
        Be patient. The herb takes four to six weeks to improve your mood. If
        you don't notice a difference after eight weeks, consult a health care
        professional to try another treatment. And talk to a health care
        practitioner before you combine this herb with drugs; St. John's wort
        may decrease the effect of several pharmaceutical drugs, including birth
        control pills and HIV and heart medications. Seek the advice of a doctor
        or therapist if your depression is severe or you feel suicidal. St.
        John's wort has not been tested for safety in pregnant and nursing
        women, so consult your practitioner before taking it. Diabetes The Best Herb: Gymnema (Gymnema sylvestre)
        may reduce your diabetes symptoms by stimulating your pancreas to pump
        out more insulin. Meletis relies on the herb to help treat type z
        diabetes in his patients. Gymnema has been used for centuries by
        Ayurvedic medical practitioners in India, but research is still
        preliminary. A pair of small studies published in the Journal of
        Ethnopharmacology in 1990 found that the herb reduced blood sugar so
        much that some patients discontinued conventional diabetes drugs. Lab
        tests suggest that gymnema may help control type 1 diabetes as well, but
        more research is needed, Winston says. The Best Dose: Diabetes is a serious
        condition, so always work with your health care professional even if
        you're not on diabetes medications. Take 400 mg three times a day with
        meals. It takes three to four weeks to notice benefits, and you'll
        experience the improvements only as long as you take the herb. Gymnema
        has few side effects, but consult your health care professional before
        taking it if you are pregnant or nursing. Enlarged Prostate The Best Herb: Most men age 50 and older
        need to know about saw palmetto (Serenoa repens). This herb reduces the
        symptoms of enlarged prostate, a common problem of aging. A recent
        review of more than 20 controlled human trials concluded that saw
        palmetto reduced the symptoms of enlarged prostate, including nighttime
        bathroom trips, as effectively as pre scription medication but with
        fewer side effects. Scientists originally thought saw palmetto worked
        like drugs for enlarged prostate. But recent research disproves this,
        McCaleb says, and the exact mechanism of the herb is still a mystery. The Best Dose: Take 320 to 640 mg of saw
        palmetto daily, Saunders recommends. You'll absorb the herb better if
        you take it with a meal that contains a little fat. You'll start to
        notice a difference in a month to six weeks, with progressive
        improvements for six months that then hold steady for as long as you
        take the herb. Saw palmetto may artificially reduce prostate specific
        antigen (PSA) scores (which are thought to indicate your prostate cancer
        risk), so make sure to tell your doctor that you're taking it. Fatigue The Best Herb: You can't beat Siberian
        ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus) as a fatigue-buster. It safely and
        effectively strengthens your adrenal glands so that your body responds
        better to stress (something we could all use), Meletis says. This
        well-researched herb may also regulate your sleep cycle so that you feel
        more rested, and studies show that it can even improve the energy levels
        of shift workers. The Best Dose: Take 400 mg in capsule
        form or 15 to 20 drops of liquid extract. Choose the nonstandardized
        form, and take one dose with breakfast and a second dose with lunch,
        Meletis recommends. Avoid taking the herb later in the day because it
        may make it harder to fall asleep at night. You should feel less tired
        within a few hours of your first dose. Don't use Siberian ginseng if
        you're pregnant or nursing, have heart disease or high blood pressure,
        or you take blood thinners like warfarin. Hay Fever The Best Herb: If you suffer from hay
        fever, the herb eyebright (Euphrasia officinalis) is a
        "phenomenal" solution, Winston says. Eyebright appears to make
        your immune system less reactive to airborne allergens. Although Winston
        and other practitioners know eyebright works, scientists have not
        subjected the herb to human trials. But they do know that the herb
        contains anti-inflammatory and astringent compounds, which reduce
        swelling and itching and dry up a runny nose. The Best Dose: Take 1/4 teaspoon of
        eyebright liquid extract four times a day as needed. You should notice
        some improvement within z4 hours, although severe congestion may take
        longer to improve. The herb appears to be safe, but don't use it without
        the help of a health care professional if you're pregnant or nursing. Herpes The Best Herb: The herpes virus can be
        virulent, but you'll be surprised to learn that a garden herb can beat
        the symptoms into submission. Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) can treat
        and prevent cold sores and genital herpes, both of which are caused by
        the herpes virus. Compounds in lemon balm appear to bind to the virus'
        receptor sites, preventing it from spreading. And the herb reduces
        symptoms like itching, burning, swelling, and tingling, and speeds
        healing, according to several double-blind, placebo-controlled human
        studies in Europe. Regular use of lemon balm cream may prevent future
        outbreaks. The Best Dose: Apply a thick coat of
        lemon balm cream with a concentration of 70 to 1 to the affected area at
        least four times a day. (The concentration will be listed on the label.)
        You should begin to feel relief immediately. The herb has few to no side
        effects and can be used topically even if you are pregnant. Herpes is
        highly contagious and lemon balm does not prevent it from spreading to
        another person. High Blood Pressure The Best Herb: The herb dandelion (Taraxacum
        officinale) may quell high blood pressure. It works like prescription
        diuretics by decreasing your blood volume, which decreases your blood
        pressure, Meletis explains. Although researchers haven't studied the
        effect of this herb on people with high blood pressure, herbalists say
        they've seen it work in their patients. The Best Dose: Take 400 to 800 mg of
        dandelion leaf (not root) capsules, divided into two doses with meals.
        You should experience the diuretic effect within a few hours (meaning
        you'll urinate more), and the blood pressure benefits should last for as
        long as you take the herb. Do not take dandelion if you have gallstones
        or a bile duct obstruction; it can exacerbate your problem. Consult your
        doctor before taking dandelion if you're pregnant or nursing. Diuretics
        can alter the effect of some prescription medicines, so talk to your
        doctor before using them. High Cholesterol The Best Herb: No one knows exactly how
        the Indian herb guggul (Commiphora mukul) works, but it may bind to
        cholesterol in your gut so that you eliminate it before it enters your
        bloodstream, Winston says. Researchers have studied guggul for 30 years
        and one 1994 study stands out. Published in Cardiovascular Drugs and
        Therapy, it found that guggul reduced serum cholesterol by about 18 per,
        cent, LDL ("bad") cholesterol by 13 percent, and triglycerides
        by 12 percent. The Best Dose: If you have high
        cholesterol, be sure to use guggul with the guidance of a health care
        practitioner. Take 250 to 500 mg three times daily with meals. Consult
        your practitioner before taking guggul if you're pregnant or nursing. In
        rare cases, some people may experience mild gastrointestinal distress,
        nausea, or a skin rash; reduce your dose if these occur. Insomnia The Best Herb: Your dreams of a blissful
        sleep can come true if you take valerian (Valeriana officinalis). The
        herb contains valproic acid, a substance that helps people relax and
        fall sleep, Saunders says. In a 2000 double-blind study, German
        scientists gave 75 insomniacs either valerian or a prescription insomnia
        drug 30 minutes before bedtime. Valerian worked just as well as the drug
        and had fewer side effects. Another study found that valerian helps
        people who can't sleep due to stress. The Best Dose: Take 1/2 teaspoon of
        valerian liquid extract in a few ounces of water at dinnertime and again
        at bedtime, Saunders recommends. Put the bottle next to your bed; if you
        wake up in the night, take IA teaspoon more. Scan labels to find a
        liquid extract made with the fresh root and rhizome rather than pills or
        liquid extracts made from dried valerian, Hobbs says. Don't use valerian
        if you've had more than a glass or two of wine with dinner; alcohol will
        magnify the herb's effect. Be aware that some people may be stimulated
        rather than calmed by this herb; stop taking valerian if it makes you
        feel jittery. Consult your health care practitioner before taking
        valerian if you are pregnant or nursing. Irritable Bowel
        Syndrome The Best Herb: Just a tiny amount of
        peppermint oil (Mentha piperita) can curtail the frustrating symptoms of
        irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The oil relaxes the smooth muscle in
        your colon, stopping the cramps and spasms that afflict IBS sufferers.
        It may also relieve constipation, a common IBS symptom, by strengthening
        the muscle contractions that move waste through your intestines,
        Saunders says. A recent review of natural therapies for gastrointestinal
        problems found that peppermint capsules effectively decreased pain for
        kids with IBS. The Best Dose: Take an enteric-coated
        capsule containing o.2 ml of peppermint oil at dinner and another
        capsule at bedtime, Saunders recommends. The enteric coating helps the
        capsule stay intact until it reaches your intestines, where it relieves
        IBS symptoms. The menthol in peppermint oil may cause heartburn in some
        people (if this happens, try taking it before you eat dinner, Saunders
        says). Do not take it while pregnant or nursing without the advice of a
        health care practitioner. Memory loss The Best Herb: If your memory is fading,
        promising research suggests that the Indian herb bacopa (Bacopa monnieri)
        can sharpen it. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study published last
        summer found that adults who took bacopa daily had better short-term
        memories than those who took a placebo. Animal studies indicate that the
        herb works by activating the memory section of the brain, allowing it to
        perform better. The Best Dose: Bacopa can be difficult to
        find; look for either powder or capsules in natural food stores or on
        the Internet. If you use the powder, mix 1/4 to 1 teaspoon in 1 cup of
        water and drink 3 cups a day. If you find capsules, take 60 mg three
        times a day. You should notice an improvement in two to four weeks, but
        you must use bacopa daily to get results. The benefits will last only as
        long as you take the herb. Bacopa has no known side effects, but consult
        your health care practitioner before taking it if you are pregnant or
        nursing. Migraines The Best Herb: If you suffer from
        migraines, you must try feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium). A review of six
        double-blind, placebo-controlled human studies conducted on feverfew
        concluded that it prevents migraines in most people and has few side
        effects. The herb appears to work by inhibiting the release of serotonin,
        a brain chemical that may trigger migraines, and by relaxing constricted
        blood vessels in your head. The Best Dose: Take 125 mg of feverfew
        standardized to 0.2 to 0.7 percent parthenolides twice a day with food,
        Saunders recommends. It may take up to four weeks of daily use to notice
        results, and you must take it indefinitely. Feverfew will not stop a
        migraine in progress. In rare cases it can cause mild stomach upset.
        There are no known drug interactions, but talk to your doctor if you're
        already taking conventional migraine drugs. Do not take feverfew without
        first consulting a health care practitioner if you are pregnant or
        nursing. Nighttime Vision Loss The Best Herb: If your vision fails after
        dark, the European herb bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus) can make a
        noticeable short-term improvement in your sight, Winston says. During
        World War II, British Air Force pilots ate jars of bilberry jam before
        flying night missions to improve their night vision. Purple pigments in
        the berries, called anthocyanins, regenerate an essential protein in
        your eyes known as "visual purple." This protein is broken
        down in sunlight, which can dim your vision. The berries also protect
        your eyes against free radical damage caused by age and sunlight;
        studies in the 1980s found that bilberry extract stopped the progression
        of cataracts and diabetes-related eye damage. The Best Dose: Take 120 to 240 mg of
        bilberry extract capsules twice daily, or eat 1/4 to 1/2 cup of
        blueberries daily (blueberries, a cousin of bilberries, work the same
        way, Winston says). Consult your health care professional before taking
        the capsules if you are pregnant or nursing. Ulcers The Best Herb: A proven soother of
        gastrointestinal ailments, deglycyrrhizinated licorice (Glycyrrhiza
        glabra) or DGL helps gastric ulcers the same way it eases acid reflux,
        by coating the irritated tissues and reducing inflammation. DGL also
        increases levels of prostaglandins, fatty acids that help protect and
        heal ulcers. Several controlled studies have found that DGL treats
        ulcers as effectively as conventional ulcer drugs but with fewer side
        effects. Conventional drugs actually suppress your body's production of
        prostaglandins, increasing your risk of future ulcers and severe
        bleeding. The Best Dose: Chew two to four 250 mg
        tablets of DGL twice daily with meals. DGL is safe for long-term use and
        you must take it daily to get results. If you have a Helicobacter pylori
        infection, which is thought to cause many ulcers, be aware that DGL
        doesn't kill bacteria. If you know you have H. pylori, use the herb
        goldenseal with DGL. Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) is rich in an
        antibiotic compound called berberine. Take up to four 500 mg capsules of
        goldenseal a day with meals. 10ng-term use of this herb may disrupt the
        good bacteria in your intestines, so don't take it for more than a week
        without consulting a health care practitioner. Avoid both DGL and
        goldenseal if you're pregnant or nursing. Varicose veins The Best Herb: Horse chestnut (Aesculus
        hippocastanum) can minimize unsightly varicose veins and prevent future
        ones. Aescin and other compounds in the herb shore up weak capillaries
        and veins, reducing existing varicose veins and relieving the pain and
        swelling that accompany them. Horse chestnut effectively reduced leg
        pain from chronic venous insufficiency (a condition related to varicose
        veins) more than four times as effectively as a placebo, according to 13
        studies involving more than 11,000 people. Be aware that the herb will
        only treat mild to moderate varicose veins; if yours are severe, the
        herb will not reverse them. The Best Dose: To treat existing varicose
        veins, take 300 mg of horse chestnut capsules twice a day. To prevent
        varicose veins, take IO to 2,0 drops of horse chestnut liquid extract
        three times a day, Winston says. You'll need to take it for four to
        eight weeks to notice a difference. You may experience mild side effects
        like stomach upset, headache, and nausea; reduce your dose if this
        occurs. Horse chestnut thins your blood, so don't mix it with blood
        thinners like warfarin or aspirin or take it before surgery. Consult
        your health care practitioner before taking it if you're pregnant or
        nursing. When Good Herbs Get
        Bad Press You've seen the headlines: St. John's
        wort and echinacea don't work. Kava kava is toxic to your liver. If
        these herbs are in your medicine cabinet, it's easy to become concerned
        and discouraged. Our experts offer this advice about how to read between
        the lines of these news stories. Consider the Big Picture. "One study
        doesn't prove anything," points out Davis, Calif.-based herbalist
        and acupuncturist Christopher Hobbs, L.Ac. If previous studies
        consistently showed different results, a single study means little. It's
        usually unnecessary to change your habits until the results can be
        verified by later studies. Check a Trusted Source for Comments,
        Organizations like the American Botanical Council (ABC) often respond to
        new research about herbs. These groups point out details that might flaw
        a study, like that researchers used too weak a dose or treated patients
        for too short a time. When you see news of a study, get the ABC's take
        by calling 512-926-4900 or visiting www.herbalgram.com. And talk to your
        doctor about herb headlines. She may not follow herb news closely, but
        it's worth asking. Don't Ignore Headlines. Skepticism about
        herb headlines is healthy, but don't tune them out. Negative studies are
        as important as positive ones because they help us gain a new
        understanding of herbs. "They raise questions," Meletis says.
        "Maybe we need to be more specific about dosing, or maybe certain
        populations aren't intended to have an herb." Maria Noel Mandile is a freelance
        writer who lives in Derry, N.H. Home | Library | Book
Store | Music Store | Nontoxic
Cleaning
Products | Organic
Herbs | Essential
Oils | Herbal
Remedies | Natural
Cosmetics | Wiccan
Pagan Store | Organic
Gardening | Natural
Child | Natural
Pet | Natural
Home | Organic
Foods | Newsletter | Renaissance & Medieval | Celtic
Jewelry | Herb Database | Gift Store | Links | Chat
Rooms | About | Advertising & Privacy Info. | Magazine
 Stand | Art