Last-Modified: Fri, 13 Jan 2012 16:58:16 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Overactive bladder, Causes Symptoms Treatment Overactive bladder: Health care tips Health care tips Overactive bladder, Causes Symptoms Treatment Overactive bladder Increased urgency to urinate voluntarily or involuntarily along with increased urinary frequency is called as is called as overactive bladder. Unwanted urine leakage soon after the urge to void the urine is called as urge incontinence. The person with the complaint of urge urinary incontinence is not able to control urinating voluntarily and this urge urinary incontinence troubles the daily life. If an individual always hurrying to urinate is because of overactive bladder (OVB). Delayed urination also may be because of overactive bladder. Overactive bladder leads to improper bladder function and causes a sudden urge to urinate and also frequent urination. The increased urge to urinate is because of suppression of destrusor muscles. Overactive bladder also leads to involuntary loss of urine from bladder. Urinary incontinence is the term used for involuntary loss of urine from bladder. Overactive Bladder – Urge urinary incontinence - Facts Over active bladder may alter ones quality of life. Millions of people worldwide are suffering from overactive bladder or uncontrolled bladder activity. Over active bladder troubles even if you are sitting in the office or attending meeting or some important functions. Overactive bladder makes the people to feel embarrassed tends to stay isolated. Overactive bladder may lead oneself to feel inferior and the irritation created by over active bladder reduces the performance at work and leads to unhappy social life. The proper identification of cause of overactive bladder is essential to treat overactive bladder. Symptoms of overactive bladder Signs and symptoms of overactive bladder are as follows Sudden and strong urge to urinate is the main symptom of over active bladder. Experiencing urge incontinence, Involuntary loss of urine from urethra soon after you feel urgency to urinate is common symptom of over active bladder in many people. Frequent urination, urge to pass urine even for every hour, Nocturia: passing urine night time more. Causes of overactive bladder are Neural damage which supplies urinary bladder is the main cause of overactive bladder. Spinal cord injuries may      causes overactive bladder. Stroke or cerebro vascular      accident also causes overactive bladder. Consumption of some      medications, Bladder dysfunction due to an      injury or anatomical damage causes overactive bladder Abdominal surgeries which damages urinary bladder are the main causes of overactive bladder. Facts related to overactive bladder are Women are more prone to have overactive bladder than males. And the occurrence of overactive bladder in males is very less and increased with old age. Don’t hesitate to meet the doctor when you have the symptoms of overactive bladder or frequent urination. Treatment of underlying cause of overactive bladder eliminates the symptoms of overactive bladder. Untreated overactive bladder disrupts the social life and leads to poor daily living activities. Treatment of overactive bladder Treatment options for overactive bladder includes Behavioral treatment Pharmacological treatment and Surgical treatment Behavioral treatment: This treatment option includes some pelvic exercises and techniques to control urge incontinence. Pelvic muscle rehabilitation to improve pelvic muscle tone and prevent leakage Kegel exercises: Regular exercises to      strengthen the pelvic muscles may improve bladder function and helps to      prevent urinary incontinence. Younger people can practice these pelvic      exercises easily. These exercises to strengthen the pelvic muscles to be      done for 80 times a day for minimum eight to ten weeks. The exercises are      believed to strengthen pelvic muscles and urethra which helps to control sphincter      of urethra. Proper exercises with technique helps lot in overactive      bladder treatment and controlling urge incontinence. Exercises done to strengthen external urinary organs help in overactive bladder treatment. These exercises should      be performed for 15 minutes, twice daily, for four to six weeks. Electrical stimulation of      Pelvic floor: Electrical impulses are sent to generate muscle contractions      in pelvic region. This exercise is usually associated with Kegel exercises      for treating overactive bladder. Behavioral therapies for Treatment of urge incontinence Bladder training by      controlling urinary urge to void urine for some extent of time helps to      have a control over urinary bladder. Engage in some activities and      establish control over the urge. The regular practice may helps for urge      urinary incontinence treatment. Pharmacological treatment : Oxybutynin, Tolterodine tricyclic antidepressants are the pharmacological drugs used for overactive bladder treatment. Surgical treatment includes treating the anatomical damages and bladder disorders. No Comments No comments yet. Leave a comment *Name *Email (not published) Recent Posts DNA, Chromosomes, Genes, what is DNA Test ? Functions, Genetics… Sciatica Causes Signs Symptoms, Treament of Sciatica nerve pain Pleural effusion, Causes Symptoms Treatment, Complications, Thoracentesis Glaucoma eye disorder Types Causes Symptoms, Treatment of Glaucoma Vitamin C Functions, Deficiency disorders, Sources of Vitamin C, RDA, High Dosage Recent Comments deepa on Stroke Causes Symptoms, What causes stroke, paralysis mukurwe on Abortion Causes, Prevention, Treatment of Spontaneous Abortion Isabellah Evelyn on Abortion Causes, Prevention, Treatment of Spontaneous Abortion hildayesupatham on Dry cough Treatment, Causes of Dry cough, Home remedies nikkie alipio on Tonsillitis causes Symptoms, Tonsillitis