
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2012 17:26:27 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Pneumonia - Garden Park Medical Center Skip to content Average ER Wait Time Wait times are an average and provided for informational purposes only. What does this mean? Find A Doctor About Us Map & Directions Contact Us About Us Non-Discrimination Provision About Garden Park Contact Us Message from our CEO Community Calendar History of Garden Park I Care Values Map & Directions Phone Directory Quality & Patient Safety Smoke-Free Environment NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES Physicians Physician Resources Find A Doctor GP Physician Services Healthcare Services Heart Health Profiler Services Listing Cardiopulmonary/Neurology Emergency Department Employer Relations Program Family Birth Center Geriatric Services Hospitalist Services Imaging Department Orthopedic/Spinal Surgery Seasons Seniors Behavioral Health Center Speaker's Bureau The Wound Healing Center Patients & Visitors iTriage Get iTriage App Pay Bill Online UpToDate Patient Info Advanced Directive (living will) Web Babies Accepted Insurance Plans Amenities Community Calendar Watch Videos Registration Information Visiting Hours Volunteer Program Health Library Careers Find A Job iResponse Employee Handbook Volunteer Opportunities Events News There are currently no upcoming events See All Events » Weight Loss Surgery versus Medical Therapy for Diabetic Patients 03.29.12 Are brand-name hospitals better? 12.09.11 State of MS Recognizes Garden Park for Surgical Excellence 12.08.11 Find Us On Facebook! 11.15.11 View All News Articles » Follow us on: Home Pneumonia Back Pneumonia (Community-Acquired Pneumonia; CAP; Bronchopneumonia) Definition Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. It affects the lower respiratory tract. This includes small bronchi (airways) and air sacs in the lungs. Development of Pneumonia in the Air Sacs of the  Lungs The normal exchange of gases is interrupted by the build up of fluids. © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes There are three main causes: Bacterial pneumonia—caused by bacteria, most commonly Streptococcus pneumoniae Viral pneumonia—caused by a virus Atypical bacterial  pneumonia —often called "walking pneumonia," but can cause a more serious or potentially fatal pneumonia Other causes of pneumonia include: Fungal infections, such as
            infections that are common in people with AIDS Pneumonias are sometimes described by where it was acquired and how you were exposed to it: Community-acquired pneumonia—acquired in the community (eg, at school, work, gym) Nosocomial pneumonia—acquired during a hospitalization Can be very dangerous, especially for patients on a ventilator Aspiration pneumonia —happens when a foreign matter (often stomach content) is inhaled Aspiration © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Risk Factors Factors that increase your chance of pneumonia include: Age: 65 or older Flu or other respiratory illness Chronic illness, such as heart or lung disease Stroke (aspiration pneumonia due to difficult swallowing) Weakened immune system caused by AIDS or chemotherapy Chronic bronchitis Malnutrition Pregnancy Infants and very young children Alcohol or drug abuse Smoking Chronic exposure to certain chemicals (eg, work in construction or agriculture) Symptoms Symptoms of pneumonia may include some or all of the following: Bacterial Pneumonia Viral Pneumonia Atypical Pneumonia Fever Fever Fever, often low-grade Shaking chills Chills Chills Cough that produces green, yellow, or rust-colored mucus Dry cough Coughing; may be violent at times; produces white mucus Chest pain Headache Possible nausea or vomiting Profuse sweating Muscle pain Weakness Bluish color of the nails or lips due to diminished oxygen in the blood Bluish color of the nails or lips due to diminished oxygen in the blood Confused mental state Weakness Diagnosis The doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history. A physical exam will be done. Diagnosis is based on symptoms and listening to your chest. Tests may include: Chest x-ray —a test that uses radiation to take pictures of structures inside the body, in this case the chest CT scan —a type of x-ray that uses a computer to make pictures of structures inside the chest Blood tests Bronchoscopy —direct examination of airways Sputum culture—testing mucus coughed up from deep in the lungs Pulse oximetry—measures the amount of oxygen in the blood Arterial blood gas—measures oxygen, carbon dioxide, and acid in the blood Treatment Treatment of pneumonia depends on: Type of pneumonia Severity of symptoms Other factors Common treatment approaches include: For bacterial pneumonia—antibiotics For viral pneumonia—antiviral medicines may be prescribed for young children and people with weakened immune systems Note: Antibiotics are ineffective for treating viral pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia—antibiotics It is very important to take the medicine as prescribed. Stopping medicine early may cause a relapse. It may also create a strain of drug resistant bacteria. General treatment approaches include: Getting plenty of rest and drinking lots of fluids Eating a healthy diet (includes lots of fruits and vegetables )—If you do not get enough vitamin C in your diet, ask your doctor if you should take a supplement (up to 1,000 mg). This may  be beneficial for some people. Taking over-the-counter medicines to reduce fever, aches, and cough Being hospitalized (in severe cases) If you are diagnosed with pneumonia, follow your doctor's
        instructions
        . Prevention Certain vaccines may prevent pneumonia: Flu shot for people at high risk, particularly the elderly  (Pneumonia may be a complication of the flu.) Pneumococcal vaccine —General recommendations include: PCV vaccine series  for children PPSV for adults aged 65 years and older and for younger people who are at high risk for getting infected Other preventive measures include: Avoid smoking. Smoke weakens the lungs' resistance to infection. http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/ Avoid close contact with people who have the
            cold or flu. Wash your hands often. This is very important when coming in contact with infected people. Protect yourself on jobs that affect the lungs. Eat a healthy diet. If you do not get enough vitamin C or zinc in your diet, ask your doctor if you should take these supplements. Get adequate rest. Exercise regularly . RESOURCES American Academy of Family Physicians http://www.familydoctor.org/ American Lung Association http://www.lungusa.org/ CANADIAN RESOURCES The Canadian Lung Association http://www.lung.ca/ Health Canada http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ References Blasi F, Aliberti S, Pappalettera M, Tarsia P. 100 years of respiratory medicine: pneumonia. Respir Med . 2007 Mar 21; [Epub ahead of print]. Braunwald E, Harrison TR, Fauci AS, et al. Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine . 17th
          ed. Columbus, OH: McGraw-Hill; 2008. Carpenter CC, Andreoli TE, Griggs RC. Cecil Essentials of Medicine . Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Science; 2003. De Roux A, Marcos MA, Garcia E, Mensa J, Ewig S, Lode H, Torres A. Viral community-Acquired pneumonia in non-immunocompromised adults. Chest .2004;125(4):1343-1351. Fleming CA, Balaguera HU, Craven DE. Risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia. Focus on prophylaxis. Med Clin North Am . 2001;85:1545-1563. Review. McCoy K. Pneumococcal vaccine. EBSCO Health Library website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated January 7, 2011. Accessed January 7, 2011. Niederman MS. Recent advances in community-acquired pneumonia inpatient and outpatient. Chest . 2007 April;4:1205-15. Niederman MS. Review of treatment guidelines for community-acquired pneumonia. Am J Med . 2004;117:Suppl 3A:51S-57S. Review. 10/29/2009 DynaMed Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Hemila H, Louhiala P. Vitamin C for preventing and treating pneumonia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009;(3):CD005532. 2/4/2011 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Lassi Z, Haider B, Bhutta Z. Zinc supplementation for the prevention of pneumonia in children aged 2 months to 59 months. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(12):CD005978.
        
              
          Bhutta ZA, Black RE, Brown KH, et al. Prevention of diarrhea and pneumonia by zinc supplementation in children in developing countries: pooled analysis of randomized controlled trials. Zinc Investigators' Collaborative Group. J Pediatr. 1999;135(6):689-697.
        
              
          Bhandari N, Bahl R, Taneja S, et al. Effect of routine zinc supplementation on pneumonia in children aged 6 months to 3 years: randomised controlled trial in an urban slum. BMJ. 2002;324(7350):1358.
        
              
          Brooks WA, Santosham M, Naheed A, et al. Effect of weekly zinc supplements on incidence of pneumonia and diarrhoea in children younger than 2 years in an urban, low-income population in Bangladesh: randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2005;366(9490):999-1004. Revision Information Reviewer: Tajender S. Vasu, MD Review Date: 09/2011 - Update Date: 09/01/2011 - This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition. Copyright © EBSCO Publishing All rights reserved. About Us About Garden Park CEO Message Contact Us Map & Directions Phone Directory Healthcare Services Service Listing Directory of Services Emergency Department Hospitalist Services Wound Healing Center Patients & Visitors Baby Photos Online Accepted Insurance Plans Amenities Volunteer Program Careers Employee Handbook Find A Job hCare Portal iResponse Remote Login Garden Park Medical Center 15200 Community Road., Gulfport, MS 39503 (228) 575-7000 Patient Pricing & Financial Information Copyright 1999-2012 ehc.com ;  All