
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 05:34:22 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.vein-treatment.net/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Vein treatment: varicose veins, spider veins Vein Treatment varicose vein, vein treatment, spider vein Main menu: Laser vein treatment Vein Treatment News Vein Treatment Spider Vein Treatment Varicose vein treatment Thread veins treatment Deep vein thrombosis Spider veins articles Varicose veins articles Recommended Resources Hemorrhoids treatment Herpes treatment Skin treatment Site search Web Vein treatment Vein Treatment News & Articles Deep vein thrombosis (6) Hemorrhoids Treatment (6) Herpes (5) Sclerotherapy (6) Spider veins (7) Varicose veins (18) Vein treatment (25) Videos (21) We recommend laparoscopic prostate surgery microdermabrasion facials stem cell transplant Varicose veins laser treatment Watch a live laser treatment of varicose veins. Posted: February 22nd, 2008 under Varicose veins , Videos . Comments: none EVLT Varicose Vein Laser Treatment EVLT eliminates unsightly varicose veins with no hospital stay, no scarring and no lengthy recovery or side effects. In less than an hour you can be free from bulging, twisted varicose veins and back to enjoying your everyday activities. EVLT is safe, fast, and effective. EVLT uses targeted laser energy to seal the vein shut and help you look and feel better fast. The EVLT® procedure is simple and effective. It takes less than an hour in a doctor’s office to eliminate varicose veins and get patients back to their everyday                          activities right away. Posted: February 22nd, 2008 under Varicose veins , Videos . Comments: none Video of Varicose Vein Treatment Live Operating room footage. Vascular surgeon uses laser to treat saphenous vein and phlebectomy for varicosities. Here are some explanation of before mentioned terms. The vascular surgeon is trained in the diagnosis and management of diseases affecting all parts of the vascular system except that of the heart and brain. The saphenous veins serve as the principal veins running superficially (near the surface) up the leg. Phlebectomy is surgical removal or all or part of a vein; sometimes done in cases of severe varicose veins . Varicosity – varix or varicose condition in which a vein is swollen and tortuous. Posted: February 14th, 2008 under Varicose veins , Videos . Comments: none Top Products for Vein Treatment Posted: January 24th, 2008 under Vein treatment . Comments: none More than 50% of people suffer from varicose veins Varicose veins are blood vessels which have become dilated, twisted, and swollen. Although they can occur anywhere in the body, they primarily affect the legs and feet. You can identify among the signals an itching, throbbing or burning feeling, which get acute at night after a hard day of work, especially if you have walked a lot or been standing up for long hours.As many as forty million Americans suffer from varicose or spider veins. About 50 to 55 percent of American women and 40 to 45 percent of American men suffer from some form of vein problem. Varicose veins affect one out of two people age 50 and older. Women generally experience varicose veins more frequently than men. Posted: December 19th, 2007 under Varicose veins , Videos . Comments: none Compression stockings and leg health This short education video provides an understanding of how venous disease in the legs occurs and why. Venous disease of the leg can be effectively treated with support hose or compression stockings . In the U.S., 1 of 15 people has venous disease of the legs. Over 2 million workdays are lost in the U.S. each year because of venous disease. Healthy Legs is one of the leading online supplier of support hose, support stockings, support hosiery, and gradient compression hosiery. Posted: December 19th, 2007 under Vein treatment , Videos . Comments: none Sclerotherapy Leg Vein Treatment Sclerotherapy is a highly successful treatment of spider and varicose veins. During the procedure, a sclerosing solution is injected into the vein through a very fine needle. A flushing of the vein occurs and then over a 4-6 week period the vein gradually disappears. Sclerotherapy has been amazingly free of side effects. There is a very low incidence of hyper-pigmentation of the skin at the site of the injection or at the site of the vein being treated. This pigmentation usually disappears over a period of time. Occasionally a small skin ulcer can appear at the sits of injection; however, this also will resolve over a period of time. It is possible to experience slight brusing at the sites of the injections. Produced by Patiently Waiting TV in association with Spore Media (more) Posted: October 1st, 2007 under Sclerotherapy , Videos . Comments: none Hemroids Treatment Hemroids are treated as per their type-internal hemroids and external hemroids. Hemroids which occur during pregnancy can be treated with minor treatments. Usually, Hemroids can be removed by minor operations. Generally, hemroid surgery is recommended for internal hemroids with severe pain/bleeding. Read more » Posted: September 8th, 2007 under Hemorrhoids Treatment . Comments: none « Previous entries Next entries » © 2012 Vein Treatment | Sponsored link: Nepremičnine | Log in Brezplačne online igre | gostovanje : 
Inetia.com | erotična trgovina Disclaimer - The data contained in the Vein treatment.net web
pages is provided for the purpose of educational purposes and
information only. It is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for
professional medical advice and shall not create a physician - patient
relationship. We are not responsible for any consequence resulted from
using this information. Please alwa