
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 14:17:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: Mono
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

AVAC | By Prevention Option | About Male Circumcision Donate | Contact Us | Events | Home By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV By Topic Policy Research Process Ethics Community Engagement Current Research Global Map Timeline Trials Clinical Site Capacity Database Px Wire Anticipating Results Hormonal Contraceptives and HIV Risk Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications Educational Materials Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Advocates' Corner Take Action Advocates' Network P-Values Weekly NewsDigest Calendar of Events The Omololu Falobi Award Links For Media Press Releases AVAC in the News Media Inquiries About AVAC Our Story Programs Staff Donors Board AVAC Fund Support AVAC Financial Information Jobs Quick Links Translate this page Afrikaans Arabic Chinese Simplified Chinese Traditional French German Hindi Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese Russian Spanish Swahili Thai By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision About Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision Resources Clinical Trials VMMC Podcasts VMMC Country Updates PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV Share Print This fact sheet provides basic information
on voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC),
an HIV prevention strategy that has shown
efficacy reducing risk of HIV infection in
HIV-negative men. The intervention is currently
being rolled out for HIV prevention in 13
sub-Saharan African countries with high HIV
prevalence and low levels of adult male
circumcision For in-depth coverage of male
circumcision for HIV prevention, please visit
the Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV
Prevention ( www.malecircumcision.org ),
a collaborative effort among AVAC, FHI 360, the
United Nations Joint Programme on HIV/AIDS
(UNAIDS) and the World Health Organization
(WHO). You can also download this page as a male
circumcision fact sheet (PDF) in English , French , Portuguese , Spanish and Thai . Text below and English PDF last updated
January 2012. Other PDFs were last updated in
June 2010. For more basic fact sheets in this series on
emerging HIV prevention strategies visit www.avac.org/intro . What is medical male
circumcision? Medical male circumcision is the removal of all
or part of the foreskin of the penis by a
trained health professional. The term voluntary
medical male circumcision differentiates
circumcision that is performed by a trained
health professional from traditional
circumcision, which is performed as part of a
religious ritual or cultural rite of
passage. Why is VMMC a key part of
combination prevention? VMMC reduces men’s risk of acquiring HIV from
their female partners by up to 76 percent. It
is not a user-dependent strategy—once a man
is circumcised, it cannot be reversed.
Epidemiologists studying the AIDS epidemic
calculate that scaling up VMMC could have a
major impact on rates of new HIV infections.
For example, if 80 percent of males aged 15-49
in Zimbabwe undergo VMMC between now and 2015,
42 percent of new infections in both men and
women will be averted by 2025. In many other
countries, roughly 20 percent of new infections
would be averted. Prevention is cost-saving:
scaling up VMMC will result save approximately
US$20 billion in costs associated with
treatment and care. What are the data supporting VMMC
for HIV prevention? Male circumcision for HIV prevention was
evaluated in three large-scale randomized
controlled clinical trials that enrolled in
total about 10,000 men in Kenya, Uganda, and
South Africa. Each of these trials used
surgical techniques that had proven safe and
effective over years of use in other contexts.
Participants in these trials have now been
followed for several years. A follow-up study
in Uganda showed effect of circumcision climbed
over time to a 73 percent decrease in HIV risk
at five years. In Kenya, protection persisted
at 60 percent at 4.5 years. A program in South
Africa found that VMMC had reduced the rate of
new HIV infections among men by up to 76
percent outside of the controlled trial
setting. Moreover, these follow-up studies did
not identify increases in sexual risk behavior
among men after VMMC. “Behavioral
disinhibition”—in which men assume that
they are completely protected and increase risk
behaviors—has been one concern related to
VMMC. What types of research are still
going on? Even though VMMC is a proven strategy, there is
still ongoing research. Programs need to be
efficient, cost-effective and
community-supported to reach the targeted
number of circumcisions needed to have the
greatest impact on the global epidemic. There
is operational research ongoing to understand
how to improve efficiencies of surgical VMMC.
There is also progress in development of
devices that would allow for non-surgical VMMC.
Two devices currently being explored, PrePex
and Shang Ring, have been developed to perform
adult male circumcision without surgery. Both
are single-use, disposable devices based on the
principle that cutting off the blood supply to
the foreskin causes the tissue to die or
“necrotize.” These new technologies could
make VMMC simpler and faster to perform for
health providers, versus the current surgical
techniques used for the procedure. The devices
also have the potential to allow for faster
training and may influence countries to
implement task-shifting (in which a specific
procedure or service is shifted from a more
highly-trained health worker to a health worker
with a more limited skill set—such as from
doctors to nurses, nurses to clinical officers,
or clinical officers to trained lay people).
The new devices could reduce the total cost per
procedure—and they might be more appealing or
acceptable to some men and/or their
partners. Why does male circumcision work as
an HIV prevention method? There is no definite answer to why medical male
circumcision reduces men's risk of HIV
infection during vaginal sex, but there are
several possible explanations. The foreskin of
the penis has many cells of a type that are
vulnerable to HIV infection. Removing the
foreskin removes these “target cells” and
makes the penile skin more durable, which might
also reduce risk. Medical male circumcision
also reduces the rate of genital ulcer disease.
Genital ulcers can increase the risk of HIV
infection. What is the status of VMMC
implementation countries? Five years have elapsed since the launch of the
WHO and UNAIDS VMMC guidance. Since then the
pace of VMMC scale-up has been slow and the
effort varied among the 13-targeted sub-Saharan
countries. What are the key considerations for
“implementation advocacy”? National strategy .
Countries are in varying stages of rolling out
operational, communications and community
engagement strategies to meet national
circumcision targets for the next five years as
well as a longer-term strategy that focuses on
the provision of early infant and adolescent
services. Political and community
leadership . There is a need throughout
the targeted countries for local, national and
international champions to foster circumcision
demand creation and political will. Financial support to scale-up
VMMC . This is currently available from
Global Fund, BMGF, PEPFAR, World Bank and
UNITAID. Over time greater reliance on national
and local resources will be needed, and
planning for this should be initiated or
strengthened. Women . They play a pivotal
role in VMMC’s scale-up. Though circumcision
reduces heterosexual men's risk of acquiring
HIV from female partners, there may eventually
be benefits to women if male circumcision
coverage increases to where it reduces the
number of HIV-positive men. Gay men and MSM . It
remains unclear whether medical male
circumcision could have an impact on HIV
transmission among gay men and other men who
have sex with men. A meta-analysis of available
data found insufficient evidence of
circumcision’s protective effect in MSM.
However, recent findings show that circumcision
might help reduce transmission in MSM who
report a preference for the insertive sexual
role. VMMC is currently one of the most powerful
biomedical HIV prevention tools at hand and
success in ending countries’ epidemics
depends on how well it is implemented.
Therefore, AVAC is currently supporting civil
society and high-level political advocacy for
ambitious scale-up of VMMC in slow-implementing
countries. Priorities for 2012 AVAC’s Playbook 2012 sets out top
strategic goals and priorities in HIV
prevention for ourselves—and for the world.
Here’s what we have to say about
microbicides. For more, visit www.avac.org/playbook . Site Map | Links | Jobs | Disclaimer | Webmaster | © 2012 AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Lima | New York | Rio | London | Johannesburg | Nairobi | Delhi | Bangkok | Sydney AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention 101 West 23rd Street · New York, NY +1 212.796.6423 (main) · avac@avac.org Copyright 2012,  All rights reserved. Design by Lo