
Protecting Kid's Teeth FAMILY GENTLE DENTAL CARE DR. DAN PETERSON 1415 
SAGE STREET ~ GERING, NEBRASKA 69341 Call: 308-436-3491 www.dentalgentlecare.com | Home | Our
Office | Services | Staff | Patient
Education | Site Map | HOME CARE TIPS FOR KIDS TO
PROTECT THEIR DENTAL HEALTH Supervise Toothbrushing Tooth decay is a bacterial
        disease...just like hand-washing can help prevent the spread of disease,
        brushing, flossing and seeing your dentist regularly can help prevent
        tooth decay caused by dental disease .+ We would like to help you do a great job in the daily care of your
children's teeth.  Preventive care of their teeth is a daily job the day
they are born.  Here  is what you can do: Clean your baby's gums with a clean, damp
    cloth or let them "chew" or teethe on a clean, damp cloth When the first tooth makes its grand
    appearance you can start brushing it with a small, soft toothbrush that has
    a tiny dab of fluoridated toothpaste Wean your child off the bottle by one year of
    age to prevent baby bottle tooth decay due to sucking on a bottle.  To
    much sucking on pacifiers, fingers or thumbs may cause their teeth to 
    become crooked Give them an infant toothbrush to teethe on Apple dental sealants to help prevent decay.  Sealants are clear protective
                      coatings applied to the teeth in the back of the mouth
                      where nearly 84% of childhood cavities occur. NEVER give your child a bottle of milk,
    juice, pop or sweetened drinks like Kool-Aid at bedtime or naptime.  If
    you must give them something to drink during these times use fluoridated
    water When your child is 12 months old,
            you can begin using a pea size dab of toothpaste.  Be sure to
            press the toothpaste into the bristles of their brush so they won't
            eat the toothpaste! Help your child to floss . ALWAYS brush and floss at night, it is the most
    important time to brush because this is the time  their salivary flow
    is low which can lead to a higher risk of plaque
    formation .  Even
    better brush with them, the best learning can occur through watching To many adults have
        oral health problems, and most can be traced to poor habits acquired in childhood* Let them brush their teeth first and you can
    do some follow-up brushing on the areas they miss.  Most children can
    brush their own teeth by age of five if they have had good brushing
    instructions by their parents and dentist Establish good oral health habits
            early. Let them pick out a favorite toothbrush and
    toothpaste to help motivate them to brush. When the gaps
                              between your child's teeth close, it is important
                              to start flossing . Keep children away from mouthwash,
      mouthwash ingestion by small children can be dangerous, even lethal. 
      Most mouthwashes contain alcohol, often 30% or more, and small children
      can not tolerate it due to their small size. Serve a as good
                              role model by practicing good oral health care
                              yourself. Check your child's mouth for any
            signs of gum disease, bleeding gums, swollen and bright red gums, or
            receding gums and bad breath. Make sure your child has a balanced
            diet .  Insufficient levels of calcium and vitamin C may
            make your child more susceptible to periodontal disease. Educate your child on the health
            risks of using tobacco products at a young age.* Check Your Child's Brushing Listerine has introduced Agent Cool Blue© mouth rinse.  It has a chemical in 
	it that identifies the bacterial buildup that we call plaque. Here’s how it works:  after brushing (and, for those old enough to do it,  
	flossing), you rinse with Agent Cool Blue.  Any area you missed will show a 
	blue stain.  Brush and floss away the stain, and you get the areas you were 
	missing.   If you suspect that your child is trying to pull a fast one on 
	you by brushing quickly and poorly,  a surprise post-brushing inspection 
	with Agent Cool Blue will reveal the truth. Regular dental
    check-ups, beginning by the age of one, and preventive dental care will
    provide your child with "smile" insurance. Routine dental exams uncover problems that
    can be treated in the early stages, when damage is minimal and restorations
    may be small. Visit A.G.D and learn about:
    Tot
    toothbrushes Surgeon General's Report
states: More than 51 million school hours are lost each year to dental related
illnesses! +Dentistry Today September 2003 *Dentistry Today. March 2001 pg 30 ~Dental Economics Feb 2001 pg 70 Patient
Education Home Site Map Babies & Children Dental Index If you have any 
	questions please e-mail me at: drdpeterson@scottsbluff.net 308-436-3491 Office number PLEASE NOTE: The information contained 
	herein is intended for 
	educational purposes only .  It is not intended and should 
	not be construed as the delivery of dental/medical care and is not a substitute for personal 
	hands on dental/medical attention, diagnosis or treatment .  
	Persons requiring diagnosis, treatment, or with specific questions are urged 
	to contact your family dental/health care provider for appropriate care. This site is privately and personally sponsored , funded and 
	supported by Dr. Peterson.  We have no outside funding. Confidentiality of data including your identity, is respected  
	by this Web site. We undertake to honor or exceed the legal requirements of 
	medical/health information privacy that apply in Nebraska. Copyright ©