Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention Loading Scientific  reviews support infant male circumcision The  available evidence strongly supports infancy as the optimal time for male circumcision… Read more>> Demand for male  circumcision rising in Rwanda More  than 20,000 men have been circumcised in Rwanda since the government began  its voluntary medical male circumcision programme in October 2010… Read more>> My experience on  the operating table “It took about 15-20 minutes and I was now a  circumcised male…” Read more>> Media resources Events calendar Resources database Welcome to the Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention, a global resource centre on male circumcision research, programme implementation, documentation, and information. Essential reading Communication Materials Adaptation Guide (2012, PDF, 1.98 MB). This publication was produced by the Communication for Change (C-Change) project and offers comprehensive guidance on communication programmes scaling up services in new settings. It outlines a 10-step, participatory process for adapting materials to make them appealing and relevant to new audiences. Joint Strategic Action Framework to Accelerate the Scale-Up of Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention in Eastern and Southern Africa (2011, PDF, 264 KB). This document articulates a five-year framework to guide accelerated scale-up of VMMC for HIV prevention in selected priority countries in eastern and southern Africa. It is intended for use by key stakeholders to collaborate and coordinate efforts along with national programmes. New to the site Site updates  include an investment framework for the global HIV response, a progress report on Kenya's VMMC programme progress and  a qualitative assessment of attitudes toward voluntary medical male circumcision in the Iringa region of Tanzania. A range of Contributing  Partners provides new materials for the Clearinghouse. Read more>> Use of devices for adult male circumcision in public health HIV prevention programmes: Conclusions of the WHO Technical Advisory Group on Innovations in Male Circumcision (PDF, 504 KB).  This executive summary outlines the main conclusions and recommendations of a report from the World Health Organization’s Technical Advisory Group on Innovations in Male Circumcision on the use of a device as an alternative method for adult male circumcision. Currently WHO only recommends standard surgical methods for voluntary adult medical male circumcision for HIV prevention. A full report will follow. Browse topics Videos MC and women Feedback Your feedback is important for us to improve our Web site. Please send any comments or suggestions to the webmaster . Subscribe to our RSS Join our mailing list Contribute materials Link to our site © Copyright Terms of Use Webmaste