<http://deuniquemarketing.com/?p=753>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 21:15:31 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Alcoholism | De Unique Marketing Feeds Login Feeds Twitter Facebook Login If you have an account with us, you can safely login with the form below. Forgot your password? Registration If you don't have an account yet, you can register below. With just one click. Home Privacy Policy Life Long Residual Earnings A Real Opportunity! Become A Real Reseller Don’t Let Pain Control Your Life! Real Time Pain Relief Recent Post Blog // Latest news and discussions Alcoholism 28 Feb 2012 Posted by DeUnique in Biogetica Causes of Alcoholism There is no known physical cause that leads to alcohol abuse. Certain factors that contribute to alcoholism are as follows: Cultural Factors: Patterns of alcohol consumption are considered to be a reflection of one’s financial status. There is a close correlation between the consumption of alcohol and also the price of alcohol and income levels. Often, people adopt this habit just to fit in with peers. Having friends who drink regularly can promote excessive drinking. Emotional Factors: People who are anxious or under a lot of stress are more prone to consuming alcohol, as it is said to temporarily release certain ‘feel good’ hormones in the body. Psychological Factors: Those suffering from depression and poor self-esteem tend to acquire this habit very easily. It is said that alcohol alters the balance of certain chemicals within the brain that inhibit impulsiveness and excite the nervous system. Addiction: Over a period of time, alcohol becomes an addiction. Alcohol raises the levels of dopamine in the brain, which gives the ‘kick’ or pleasurable effect associated with drinking. Long-term drinking, however, depletes the levels of these chemicals, making the body crave for alcohol to restore the ‘good’ feeling. Thus, it becomes a vicious cycle. Symptoms of Alcohol Abuse Almost all people who suffer from alcohol abuse live in denial of it. They rarely accept that they have a problem that needs to be treated. They often drink when they are alone, and hide alcohol away from people’s view, in order to not be found out. Excessive drinking can lead to the following symptoms: – Loss of concentration – Irritability when unable to get a drink – Emotional problems with partners or other relationships – Inability to remember important schedules or events – Constantly thinking up various excuses to drink – Withdrawal symptoms such as nausea, sweating and nervousness if not able to get a drink Problems Caused Due to Alcoholism Social Problems: Social problems that ensue from alcoholism include absenteeism from work, unemployment, marital tensions, child abuse, financial difficulties and problems with the law, including violence and traffic offences. Physical Problems: Cardiovascular system – High blood pressure Gastrointestinal system – Acidity; Inflammation of the pancreas; Poor absorption leading to deficiencies; Cancer Liver – Inflammation; Fatty deposits; Cirrhosis; Cancer Nervous system – Brain hemorrhage; Loss of memory; Premature degeneration Respiratory system – Pneumonia; Tuberculosis Endocrine system – Low blood sugar; Cushing’s syndrome Reproductive system – Infertility; Fetal alcohol syndrome Skin – Acne; Erythema Vitamin deficiencies – These occur due to an impoverished diet. The most common is Thiamine (B1) deficiency. Direct toxic effects on the brain – There are periods of amnesia for events that occurred during bouts of intoxication. Psychological Problems: Depression – This is very common in alcoholism, and is usually a result of the numerous social problems that heavy drinking creates. Alcohol also acts like a direct depressant. Suicide and attempted suicide is more common in alcoholics. Morbid Jealousy – This is a syndrome characterized by delusions of sexual infidelity. It is usually seen in alcoholics of sensitive or paranoid disposition, whose sexual relationship has deteriorated because of impotence or rejection by the partner. Withdrawal Symptoms – These indicate physical dependence. The earliest manifestation is a subjective sensation of tension on waking in the morning. This may be accompanied by tremors. Another alcoholic drink relieves these symptoms, thus establishing a pattern of morning drinking. Indirect Effects on Behavior – These can result from head injury or lowered blood sugar levels. Alcoholism Treatment Options Conventional Therapy Straightforward advice about the harmful effects of alcohol and safe levels of consumption is sometimes all that is needed. In more serious cases of alcohol abuse, patients may have to be advised to alter leisure activities or change jobs, if these factors are contributing to the problem. Supportive psychotherapy is often crucial in helping the patient effect the necessary changes in lifestyle. Interpretive psychotherapy, either individual or group, can help patients who have relapses. Treatment of this type is available at specialized centers, and is also provided by voluntary organizations such as Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). Drugs Drugs are used at various stages of alcoholism treatment. Benzodiazepines are the drugs of choice for withdrawal symptoms and can be safely given in large doses, provided they are tailed off over a period of 5-7 days, as symptoms subside. It is customary to give high doses of vitamins during withdrawal treatment, because of the possibility of thiamine deficiency. Anti-depressants are given if symptoms of depression are present along with alcoholism. Disulfiram (Antabuse 200-400mg daily) can be given as a deterrent, for patients who find it difficult to resist sudden impulses to drink, after being abstinent. The drug blocks the metabolism of alcohol, causing acetaldehyde to accumulate in the body. Alcohol, if consumed while on the drug, produces an unpleasant reaction consisting of headache, flushing, nausea and labored breathing. The Knowledge that this reaction will occur deters drinking and can even stop the craving. Disulfiram should always be seen as an adjunct to other alcoholism treatments, especially supportive psychotherapy. Naltrexone, a drug known to block the narcotic effects can also be used to reduce the urge for drinking. This is also available in injectable form, which is to be taken once a month. It may reduce the urge to drink by blocking the neurotransmitters in the brain which are thought to be associated with alcohol dependence. Biogetica Therapy for Alcoholism To put it very simply, there are 2 main reasons you have not been able to give up drinking – Physical dependence and Psychological dependence. Biogetica uses natural remedies to ease your withdrawal symptoms, thus making giving up alcohol easier.* The natural remedies in the kits work specifically by: • Balancing your emotional, mental and physiological responses, thus ensuring lasting relief, and encouraging permanent commitment to an alcohol-free life* • Supplying your body with the essential vitamins, minerals and nutrients that are depleted due to excessive alcohol consumption* • Helping restore impaired metabolism and correcting digestive and assimilation processes* • Helping to clear toxins from your liver* • Helping soothe your nerves* • Bringing about emotional and mental changes that help control cravings* It is thus our endeavor to offer you hope and help you steer away from the dangerous path of alcohol dependence, which ruins millions of lives.* Biogetica Alcoholism Kits More From DeUnique Vaginitis means Inflammation Cessation of the Menstrual Cycle Depression Is A Psychological Disorder DeUnique Recommends Alcoholism Help! (Mens Health) Sleep Deprivation: Help is Here – Cure It Naturally (Kimberly101) Ask DeUnique To Recommend Your Posts No Comments Share Leave Reply « Previous Post Next Post » Leave a Reply / Cancel You must be logged in to post a comment. Select Language Afrikaans Albanian Arabic Armenian Azerbaijani Basque Belarusian Bulgarian Catalan Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Croatian Czech Danish Dutch English Estonian Filipino Finnish French Galician Georgian German Greek Haitian Creole Hebrew Hindi Hungarian Icelandic Indonesian Irish Italian Japanese Korean Latvian Lithuanian Macedonian Malay Maltese Norwegian Persian Polish Portuguese Romanian Russian Serbian Slovak Slovenian Spanish Swahili Swedish Thai Turkish Ukrainian Urdu Vietnamese Welsh Yiddish JavaScript is required to use this website translator , site translator , automatic translation , free translation . Buy oil paintings on ArtMaestro. Categories Health & Fitness (48) Biogetica (4) Native Remedies (33) Income Opportunity (1) Internet Marketing (55) Clickbank Storefront CB Pro Ads 0 Digital Storefront 0 Manuscript Of Success 0 Millionaire Society 0 Health & Fitness Advance Holistic Healthcare 0 Best Body Detoxification Guides & Reviews 0 Best Colon Cleanse Guides & Reviews 0 Health A-Z: Ailment Index 0 Natural & Herbal Remedies Blog 0 Painkiller Awareness 0 Rub It On The Pain Is Gone! 0 Income Opportunities Become a Native Remedies Affiliate and Earn 25% Commissions! 0 Become A Real Time Pain Relief Reseller! 0 Life Long Residual Income! 0 MarketBay myPadMedia 0 The Novel Network 0 Touch TextBooks 0 Archives February 2012 (104) Clickbank Products Feedjit Live Traffic Feed Feedjit Live Blog Stats Feedjit Live Blog Stats Feedjit Live Blog Stats Follow Us Twitter Facebook Contact our team Get in touch with our 24/7 support team regarding any issues you may have. We respect your privacy. Login If you have an account with us, you can safely login with the form below. Forgot your password? Search Copyright This site uses valid XHTML 1.0 Strict and CSS. All content Copyright ©