
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 08:37:44 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.11
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 08:37:44 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Adult Male Circumcision | HIV Vaccines and Microbicides Resource Tracking Working Group Search this site: CONTACT HOME | FUNDING FOR HIV PREVENTION RESEARCH The Female Condom  as HIV Prevention PrEP HSV-2 Suppression for HIV Prevention Vaccines Vertical Transmission Prevention Microbicides Treatment as Prevention Adult Male Circumcision RESOURCES Downloadable Graphics Presentations Report Archive BACKGROUND New Developments Methodology Other Resource Tracking Efforts Adult Male Circumcision What is Adult Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention? Medical male circumcision refers to the surgical removal of some or all  the foreskin of the penis by a trained health professional. The  research that has been done to date also shows that medical male  circumcision reduces men’s risk of HIV infection and genital ulcer  disease. It is believed that removing the foreskin with the vulnerable  cells and the resulting toughening of the skin covering the penis  decreases a man’s risk of acquiring HIV during sexual intercourse. Medical male circumcision refers to the surgical removal of some or all the foreskin of the penis by a trained health professional. The research that has been done to date also shows that medical male circumcision reduces men’s risk of HIV infection and genital ulcer disease. It is believed that removing the foreskin with the vulnerable cells and the resulting toughening of the skin covering the penis decreases a man’s risk of acquiring HIV during sexual intercourse. Global public-sector and philanthropic investment in R&D and operations research related to adult male circumcision has totaled US$59 million over the last five years. Investment in circumcision operations research increased to US$21.7 million, an eightfold increase in contributions from the Bill and. Melinda Gates Foundation. All Content © 2000 - 2012 HIV Resource Tracking. Website Mai