
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 16:22:17 GMT
Content-Type: text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1
Connection: close

Lehigh Valley Women's Medical Specialties - Cranberry Juice Better than Yogurt Drink for Urinary Bugs All Topics AIDS Alcohol Allergy Alzheimer's Di... Arthritis Artificial Ins... Asthma Baby Name Birth Control Birth Defects Bladder Blood Disorders Breast Cancer Breastfeeding Cancer Caregiving Children Cholesterol Conception Depression Diabetes Digestion Diseases and C... Divorce Drug Abuse Eating Disorde... Emergency Endocrine Environment Exercise Families Fathers General Gyneco... General Health Gene Therapy Glaucoma Grandparents Grief Headaches Healthcare Heart Attack Heart Disease Hepatitis HIV HPV HRT Hypertension Immunizations Infectious Dis... Infertility Job Opportunit... Kidney Labor and Deli... Managed Care Medical Proced... Medication Use Menopause Menstruation Mental Health Mind and Spirit Miscarriage Mouth Muscle Nose Nutrition Obesity Osteoporosis Overactive Bla... Parasites Parenting Pediatric Gyne... Pets Pregnancy Prevention Recalls Recipes Respiratory Safety Screening Tests Sexuality Shopping SIDS Skin Smoking STDs Stress Stroke Teeth Throat Thyroid Travel Vitamins and S... Weight Loss Women Work Families with Pets For Dad For Grandparents For Kids Healthy Trip Tips Safety News / Recalls Today's Health News What's For Dinner Exercise & Fitness Mental Wellness Nutrition & Diet Prevention HealthyMom Baby Site HealthyMom Profile HealthyMom Status Home > HealthyWomen > Drug Database >
       Cranberry Juice Better than Yogurt Drink for Urinary Bugs Cranberry Juice Better than Yogurt Drink for Urinary Bugs NEW ORLEANS, Sep 11 (Reuters Health) - Probiotics--foods that contain living cultures of 'good' bacteria--are popular in Europe and increasingly common in the US. People ascribe many benefits to eating or drinking these foods, including the ability to prevent urinary tract infections. But now, Finnish researchers have shown that probiotics are not as good as another home remedy, cranberry juice, for treating and preventing urinary tract infections (UTIs). In fact, they report that cranberry juice works, but the probiotics do not. The team reported their findings here Sunday at the 38th Annual Meeting of the Infectious Disease Society of America. Dr. Tero Kontiokari, from the Finnish Student Health Service in Oulu, and colleagues asked 150 women with urinary tract infections to drink either cranberry juice or a milk drink containing the bacterium lactobacillus for 6 months. The investigators monitored the women for symptoms of further UTIs over the study period. "We had three groups. One group got cranberry juice, which also had lingenberry in it, which is a commercial product, another group that took this lactobacillus drink, and then a 'control' group (who took neither product)," the Finnish researcher told Reuters Health. "The main result was that cranberry was effective in preventing urinary tract infection recurrences in these young, active women." This is the first time that young, active women have been studied in this setting, Kontiokari explained. For women thinking of drinking a probiotic to prevent UTIs, the researcher suggested, "don't, it won't work. But if you would like to take cranberry, take 50 or 100 milliliters per day--that will do it." Reuters Copyright 2000 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters Limited content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters Limited. Reuters Limited shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any ac