
Cinnamon | NCCAM Skip navigation links Follow NCCAM: Search Jump to: Home Health Info Research Grants & Funding Training News & Events About NCCAM Home Contact Us Site Map FAQs Accessibility Web Site Policies Privacy Policy Health Info Topics A–Z Herbs at a Glance Información en Español Be an Informed Consumer What Is CAM? Safety Information For Health Care Professionals Clinical Practice Guidelines Literature Reviews Research Research Results Topics A–Z Results by Date Sponsored Research Awarded Grants and Contracts Research Centers Policies & Guidelines Clinical Trials Labs at NCCAM Grants & Funding Funding Opportunities Grantee Policies Application Resources What Will NCCAM Fund? Overview Research Funding Priorities Funding Strategy Types of Grants and Contracts General Award Mechanisms Small Business Research Grant Program (SBIR) Training NCCAM Funding and Programs Grants, Awards, & Opportunities Continuing Education CAM Online Video Lectures Research Training Locations More Training Resources News Press Releases Alerts & Advisories CAM Statistics Events Distinguished Lecture Series Advisory Council Meetings NCCAM Clinical Digest A monthly newsletter with evidence-based information on CAM and a News condition About NCCAM NCCAM at a Glance Mission and Vision Organizational Structure Director's Message Strategic Plans & Reports Budget & Legislation Advisory Council Job Opportunities Cinnamon Common Names: cinnamon, cinnamon bark, Ceylon cinnamon, cassia cinnamon, Chinese cinnamon Latin Name: Cinnamomum zeylanicum (also known as Cinnamomum verum ); Cinnamomum cassia (also known as Cinnamomum aromaticum ) © Steven Foster On this page: Introduction What the Science Says Side Effects and Cautions Sources For More Information Introduction This fact sheet provides basic information about cinnamon—common names, what the science says, potential side effects and cautions, and resources for more information. Common Names —cinnamon, cinnamon bark, Ceylon cinnamon, cassia cinnamon, Chinese cinnamon Latin Names — Cinnamomum zeylanicum (also known as Cinnamomum verum ); Cinnamomum cassia (also known as Cinnamomum aromaticum ) Cinnamon comes from the bark of trees native to China, India, and Southeast Asia. A popular cooking spice in many cultures for centuries, cinnamon also has a long history of use as a folk or traditional medicine. For example, many ancient societies used cinnamon for bronchitis. Additional folk or traditional uses include gastrointestinal problems, loss of appetite, and control of diabetes, as well as a variety of other conditions. Cinnamon bark is used to make powders, capsules, teas, and liquid extracts. Although there are many kinds of cinnamon, Ceylon cinnamon (sometimes referred to as “true” cinnamon) and cassia cinnamon (also known as Chinese cinnamon) are the most familiar. Top What the Science Says High-quality clinical evidence (i.e., studies in people) to support the use of cinnamon for any medical condition is generally lacking. An analysis of five clinical trials concluded that cinnamon does not appear to affect factors related to diabetes and heart disease. Side Effects and Cautions Cinnamon appears to be safe for most people when taken by mouth in amounts up to 6 grams daily for 6 weeks or less. Some people may have allergic reactions to cinnamon or its parts. Cassia cinnamon contains coumarin, the parent compound of warfarin, a medication used to keep blood from clotting. Due to concerns about the possible effects of coumarin, in 2006, the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment warned against consuming large amounts of cassia cinnamon. Cinnamon should not be used in place of conventional medical care or to delay seeking care if you are experiencing symptoms that are of concern; this is particularly true if you have diabetes. Tell all your health care providers about any complementary and alternative approaches you use. Give them a full picture of what you do to manage your health. This will help ensure coordinated and safe care. For tips about talking with your health care providers about complementary and alternative medicine A group of diverse medical and health care systems, practices, and products that are not presently considered to be part of conventional medicine. Complementary medicine is used together with conventional medicine, and alternative medicine is used in place of conventional medicine. , see NCCAM’s Time to Talk campaign . Top Sources Baker WL, Gutierrez-Williams G, White CM, et al. Effect of cinnamon on glucose control and lipid parameters. Diabetes Care . 2008;31(1):41–43. Cassia Cinnamon. Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Accessed at naturaldatabase.com on October 7, 2011. Cinnamon ( Cinnamomum spp.). Natural Standard Database Web site. Accessed at naturalstandard.com on October 7, 2011. Cinnamon bark. In: Blumenthal M, Goldberg A, Brinckman J, eds. Herbal Medicine: Expanded Commission E Monographs . Newton, MA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2000:65–67. Cinnamon bark. Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Accessed at naturaldatabase.com on October 7, 2011. Cinnamon bark, Chinese. In: Blumenthal M, Goldberg A, Brinckman J, eds. Herbal Medicine: Expanded Commission E Monographs . Newton, MA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2000:68–71. Top For More Information Using Dietary Supplements Wisely NCCAM Clearinghouse The NCCAM Clearinghouse provides information on CAM and NCCAM, including publications and searches of Federal databases of scientific and medical literature. The Clearinghouse does not provide medical advice, treatment recommendations, or referrals to practitioners. Toll-free in the U.S.: 1-888-644-6226 TTY (for deaf and hard-of-hearing callers): 1-866-464-3615 Web site: nccam.nih.gov E-mail: info@nccam.nih.gov PubMed® A service of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), PubMed® contains publication information and (in most cases) brief summaries of articles from scientific and medical journals. Web site: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez Office of Dietary Supplements (ODS) ODS seeks to strengthen knowledge and understanding of dietary supplements by evaluating scientific information, supporting research, sharing research results, and educating the public. Its resources include publications and the International Bibliographic Information on Dietary Supplements database. Web site: ods.od.nih.gov NIH National Library of Medicine's MedlinePlus Cinnamon Listing: www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/natural/1002.html This publication is not copyrighted and is in the public domain. Duplication is encouraged. NCCAM has provided this material for your information. It is not intended to substitute for the medical expertise and advice of your primary health care provider. We encourage you to discuss any decisions about treatment or care with your health care provider. The mention of any product, service, or therapy is not an endorsement by NCCAM . * Note: PDF files require a viewer such as the free Adobe Reader . NCCAM Publication No.: 463 Created: October 2011 Top Share/bookmark this page: Download PDF Health Topics A–Z Medical Dictionary Related Topics Using Dietary Supplements Wisely Herbs at a Glance Series Resize text: S M L This page last modified February 08, 2012 Contact Us Privacy and Policies Accessibility Questions? FOIA Información de Salud en Español Site Map NCCAM , 
	National Institutes of Health, 
	9000 Rockville Pike, 
	Bethesda, Maryland 20892 USA,