
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 21:16:59 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Bacterial Infection Remedies | Different Types of Vaginal Infections Home >> Ask a question >> Alternative Health Home remedies for bacterial infection I am looking for natural cure for a bacterial infection probably originating from salmonela (22 Aug 2007) The presence of bacteria in the body is necessary and important. However there are times when the bacterial growth goes unchecked causing you to suffer from different bacterial infections. While there are a number of natural bacterial infection remedies , when it comes to dealing with salmonella infections, it is important to remember that the condition will usually clear itself up in a few days as long as the digestive system is not put under any excessive unnecessary stress. When combating the bacterial infection with home remedies, avoid foods that are heavy as well as foods that contain a lot of oil. In its place you should increase your intake of foods like apple sauce, bananas, rice and toast as these help to make your stool firmer. You should also increase your intake of water as it helps in flushing the bacteria out of your system. Yogurt is very useful and highly recommended when dealing with bacterial infections . Plain yogurt is rich in good bacteria and should be consumed regularly in order to maintain the bacterial balance in the body. Stay away from habits such as smoking and consumption of too much alcohol in order to treat the condition at the earliest. answered by G R on 13 Feb 2012, 11:36:14 Difference between a yeast infection and bacterial infection? Both bacterial and yeast infections are very common in women, yet many of us are not aware of the differences between them. Both the infections are caused by different organisms and therefore their symptoms, as well as the manner in which you treat them will also differ to some extent. It is important for you to determine what kind of infection you are suffering from, in order to treat the bacterial or yeast infection accordingly. A bacterial infection is caused by the overgrowth of harmful bacterial in the body. Some of the most common types of bacterial infection in women include chlamydia, trichomoniasis and gonorrhea. Yeast infection on the other hand occurs in case there is an overgrowth of yeast or Candida Albicans in your body. Some of the factors that trigger yeast infection in women include use of antibiotics, menstrual cycle, diabetes, excess stress, immune system problems and pregnancy. There are many different home remedies that can be recommended for yeast or bacterial infection in women, such as garlic, yogurt, unsweetened cranberry juice and water. However, it is important to remember that a yeast or bacterial infection in women can easily be passed on to her partner through sexual intercourse. Therefore, it is best to seek medical attention and get any infection treated as soon as possible. answered by M W on 10 Feb 2012,  4:03:30 Types of vaginal bacterial infections? Different types of vaginal infections generally have different signs and symptoms and recognizing these is crucial in treating such infections. Bacterial vaginosis, yeast infection and trichomoniasis are the 3 different types of vaginal infections which are common among most women. Bacterial vaginosis can be transmitted sexually but can also be caused by IUD’s and douches. White or grey foul smelling vaginal discharge and redness, irritation and itching are the common signs of bacterial vaginosis. Yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of the Candida albicans fungus in the vaginal area and are not transmitted sexually. Frequent urination, painful intercourse, itching, inflammation and white chunky discharge are some of the symptoms of this vaginal discharge infection. Trichomoniasis on the other hand is a sexually transmitted infection which can affect both women as well as men. These different types of vaginal infections are usually treated with the help of drugs and anti-fungal or antibacterial creams and ointments. In addition to these, alternative home remedies can also be used to treat such infections. Application of fresh yogurt into the vagina is one of the best natural treatments for vaginal discharge infection . Similarly tea tree oil can also be applied on the vaginal area to cure different types of vaginal infections. answered by K C on  6 Feb 2012, 11:11:12 How to get rid of a bacterial infection? Bacterial vaginosis refers to a rather common condition that is characterized by fluid discharge from the vagina and occurs due to that uncontrolled growth of bacteria that are present in the vagina. Studies have shown that the women most prone to the development of the condition are the ones that are in their reproductive years. The symptoms of these bacterial infections are not necessarily very prominent and about 50% of all women will experience absolutely no symptoms. However, the ones that do are likely to experience severe itching around the vaginal area, an unpleasant fishy smell as well as an increased amount of vaginal discharge. When it comes to natural ways to get rid of bacterial vaginosis – there are a number of frequently used methods that can help substantially. For instance, the application of apple cider vinegar over the area on a regular basis will help substantially. Another way to get rid of bacterial infection is to soak a tea bag in some water and cool it in the refrigerator for a while before placing it over the affected area to ease discomfort. Make it a point to switch to cotton undergarments in order to get rid of bacterial infections as a result of moisture buildup. Smoking and consumption of alcohol are known to contribute to the development of the condition as well and should therefore be avoided. answered by G M on  1 Feb 2012,  4:44:04 Hydrogen peroxide answered by L C S on 24 Aug 2007,  5:25:14 Read more questions in Alternative Health Related Topics Bacterial vaginitis Bacterial vaginitis is a vaginal infection. It is one of the most common reasons for vaginitis during reproductive years. Bacterial vaginitis is... Sore Throat Home Remedies Treatment Sore Throat Symptoms Causes Sore Throat Home Remedies
Sore throat refers to the inflammation of the pharynx or back of the throat. It occurs frequently when a person has a... Bacterial Eye Infection | Eye Infection Remedy Cause | Eye Infection An eye infection may be caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Although a lot less common, eye infections may also be caused as a result of... Bacterial Eye Infection | Eye Infection | Eye Infection Cause Swollen An eye infection may be caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Although a lot less common, eye infections may also be caused as a result of... Diabetes | Pid | Bacterial Vaginosis Bacterial VaginosisBacterial Vaginosis is yet another type of infection occurring in the vaginal Related Questions Question bacterial infection cranberry juice | bacterial infection cranberry juice Bacterial infection remedies Bacterial infection is too broad a term used. Inadequate information regarding the organ affected is available.... Bacterial infection symptoms Natural bacterial infection If you are pregnant, it is absolutely not recommended that you take any drugs without medical consultation first. While your obstetrician... Bacterial Infection | Bacterial Infection Home Remedies for Bacterial InfectionThere are bacterial infections of various kinds and can develop on any part of the body. Since you are... Symptoms Vaginal Infection | Remedies Vaginal Infection A vaginal infection is something that most women suffer from, at one point or the other. A vaginal bacterial infection is caused by a fungus... Alternative bacterial infection | bacterial infection Treatment for Bacteral infection -  Vitamins aren't meant to cure bacterial infection.They may assist in helping anti biotic to function well... Log In Here Close User name * (User name is your email address) Password * Sign-up Forgot Your Password ? Related Blogs Group B Strep Bacterial Infection Pregnancy Causes Illness Bacterial Vaginitis Home Remedies Bacterial Vaginosis | Heal Bacterial Vaginitis Natural Pyelonephritis | Remedies Kidney Infection Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis | Chronic Prostatitis Top Searched Keywords grapeseed oil natural cure for liver disease canker sores home remedies for osteoporosis tension arterial high sugar toe nails natural cure for garlic iodine natural remedies for congestion in children Preconception Health, Diet | Pregnancy Preconception | Preconception Planning, Tips - Mar, 2010 25 Natural Remedies for Dry Skin - Jun, 2009 Managing Your Stress And Anxiety Levels During An Economic Downturn - May, 2009 51 Health And Beauty Tips - Mar, 2009 Send us your questions Type Your Question (We do not sell your email address) Abrasions Acne Acne Scars Alcoholism Allergies Alzheimer Amnesia Anaemia Angina Anorexia Anxiety Appendicitis Arteriosclerosis Arthritis Asthma Athletes foot Autoimmune Diseases Back Pain Backache Bacterial Vaginitis Bed Sores Bedwetting Belching Blemishes Bloating Blocked Milk Duct Body odor Body Rash Boils Bone Spur Breast Care Bronchitis Bruises Burning tongue Burns Bursitis Canker Sores Carpal tunnel syndrome Cataract Celiac Disease Chafing Chest Congestion Chicken Pox Chlamydia Cholera Cirrhosis of the Liver Cold Sores Colitis Common Cold Common Digestive Disorders Common Fever Congestion Conjunctivitis Constipation Corns Coronary Heart Disease Cough Cracked Heels Cracked, chapped and dry lips Cystitis Dandruff Dark Circles Dark Skin Dark underarms Defective Vision Depression Diabetes Mellitus Diaper Rash Diarrhoea Digestive Disorder Dizziness Dry Skin Ear Infection Earache Eating Disorders Eczema Edema Endometriosis Enema ENT Disorder Eye Infection Female Sterility Fever Flatulence Freckles Frequent Urination Fungal Infections Gall Bladder Disorders Gastritis Genital warts GERD Gingivitis Goitre Gout Gray Hair Halitosis Hangover Hay Fever Head Congestion Head Lice Headaches Heat Stroke Hemorrhoids Herpes Hiccups High Blood Cholesterol High Blood Pressure Hives Hyperacidity and Heartburn Hyperthyroidism Hysteria Indigestion Influenza Insomnia Interstitial Cystitis Intestinal Worms Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Itching Jaundice Jock Itch Kidney Stones Knee Pain Laryngitis Leg Cramps Lethargy Leucoderma Leucorrhoea Lice Treatment Liver Disease Loss of Hair Low blood pressure Low Blood Sugar Low Immunity Lyme Disease Malaria Mastitis Measles Menopausal Disorders Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Problems Migraine Moles Mononucleosis Morning Sickness Mumps Nasal Congestion Nausea Nephritis Neuritis Nosebleeds Obesity Oral Candidiasis Orchitis Osteoporosis Palpitation Peeling Skin Peptic Ulcer Phlegm Piles Pimples Plantar Fascia or Plantar Fasciitis Pneumonia Poison Ivy Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Premature Ejaculation Premature Greying of Hair Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) Prostate Disorders Psoriasis Pyorrhoea Razor Burns Respiratory Diseases Retain teeth and lip color Rheumatism Ringworm Scabies Schizophrenia Scurvy Sexual Disorders Sexual Impotence Shoulder Pain Sinusitis Skin Blemishes Skin Disease Sleep Apnea Sleeping Disorders Snoring Sore Nipples Sore Throat Spring Ailments Stress Stretch Marks Sunburn Sweating Disorder Swimmers Ear Tennis Elbow Thinning Hair Throat Obstruction Thyroid Tinea Versicolor Tinnitus Toe Nail Fungus Tonsillitis Toothache Tuberculosis Underweight Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Urticaria Vaginal Infections Varicose Veins Vertigo Vitiligo Vomiting Warts Wheezing Whooping Cough Winter Ailments Womens Health Issues Wrinkles Yeast Infection Zits English | Spanish Sitemap Terms and Conditions for Usage of this Site www.home-remedies-for-you.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information. Copyrights© 2011. Home-Remedies-for-You.com Sign up Bookmark us Subscribe newsletter Home Remedies | Articles | Specialists | Ask a Question | Blog | M