<http://wp.me/ptip5-kb>; rel=shortlink

Review: Gestational Diabetes | Diabetic Mediterranean Diet Diabetic Mediterranean Diet Skip to content Home About Buy Book Contact Disclaimer Drugs for Diabetes Ketogenic Mediterranean Diet Low-Carb Mediterranean Diet Prepare for Weight Loss T2 Diabetes and Low-Calorie Diets T2 Diabetes and Low-Carb Diets What Is Normal Blood Sugar? ← MORE Health Benefits of the Mediterranean Diet Expanded Blogroll: Need a Little Light Reading? → March 15, 2010 · 2:00 AM ↓ Jump to Comments Review: Gestational Diabetes Ever heard of gestational diabetes?  It’s when a when a woman develops diabetes during pregnancy.  It usually goes away soon after the baby is born.  All pregnancies are characterized by some degree of insulin resistance and high insulin levels: they are necessary for the baby.  Nevertheless, healthy pregnant women run blood sugars 20% lower than when they are not pregnant. In the U.S., gestational diabetes occurs in 5% of pregnancies.  Compared to caucasians, gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) occurs more often in blacks, native Americans, Asians, and Latinos. So What’s the Big Deal? Numerous problems are associated with GDM, for both the mother and the baby: dangerously high blood pressure ( preeclampsia ) excessive amount of amniotic fluid (the baby in the uterus floats in this fluid) delivery requiring an operation early or premature delivery death of the baby birth trauma, such as broken bones or nerve injury metabolic problems in the baby (low blood sugar, for example) abnormally large baby ( macrosomia , a major problem) Diabetic ketoacidosis —a life-threatening complication of diabetes—is rare in GDM. How Is GDM Diagnosed? ( section updated October 12, 2011 ) Most women should undergo a screening test around the 24th to 28th week of pregnancy.  Screen earlier if undiagnosed type 2 diabetes is suspected.  The screening test is a 50 gram oral dose of glucose (drunk without regard to timing of the last meal).  Blood sugar is tested one hour later.  This blood sample is obtained by a needle in a vein, not by finger prick.  Blood sugar level over 130–140 mg/dl (7.2–7.8 mmol/l) is abnormal. There’s no need for the screening test if a random blood sugar is over 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) or a fasting sugar is over 126 mg/dl: those numbers already define diabetes, assuming they are confirmed with a second high reading.  A random blood sugar over 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) should probably be repeated for confirmation.  Gestational diabetes can be diagnosed at the first prenatal visit if fasting blood sugar is 92 or over mg/dl (5.1 mmol/l or over) but under 126 mg/dl (7 mmol/l), or if hemoglobin A1c at the first prenatal visit is 6.5% or greater. If the mother flunks the screening test, the next step is a three-hour oral glucose tolerance test starting with an empty stomach.  A 100-gram dose of glucose is taken by mouth right after drawing blood for a fasting blood sugar test.  Bood is drawn again at one, two, and three hours after the glucose drink.  If two or more of the following are present, you have GDM: fasting blood sugar > 95 mg/dl (5.3 mmol/l) 1-hour blood sugar > 180 mg/dl (10 mmol/l) 2-hour blood sugar > 155 mg/dl (8.6 mmol/l) 3-hour blood sugar > 140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) As an alternative to the three-hour test, a two-hour test with a 75 gram glucose load is increasingly popular.  On this test, you have GDM if you have at least one of the following: fasting blood sugar 92 mg/dl or over (5.1 mmol/l or over) but under 126 mg/dl (7 mmol/l) 1-hour blood sugar 180 mg/dl or greater (10 mmol/l or greater) 2-hour blood sugar 153 mg/dl or greater (8.5 mmol/l or greater) What’s the Treatment for Gestational Diabetes? Briefly: diet, exercise, blood glucose self-monitoring,  and insulin if needed.  The immediate goal is to achieve normal blood sugars. A registered dietitian is involved in teaching diet modification.  The standard recommendation is to reduce carbohydrate consumption to 35-40% of total calories.  [By comparison, the standard American diet provides about 55% of calories as carbohydrates.]  Protein and fat are about 20% and 40%, respectively.  Total calorie recommendations are based on the mother’s ideal body weight.  Insulin resistance is greatest in the morning, so breakfast is small.  Complex carbohydrates are favored over simple sugars.  Most women will achieve normal glucose (blood sugar) levels with diet modification. Moderate exercise also helps control blood sugars, partially by increasing sensitivity of body tissues to insulin. How often should blood sugar be monitored by the mother?  Ideally, at least four times daily: fasting (on an empty stomach before breakfast) and one hour after the first bite of each meal. Insulin therapy should be seriously considered when fasting glucose is over 90–95 mg/dl (5.0–5.3 mmol/l) or 1-hour-after-meal glucose is over 120-130 mg/dl (6.7–7.2 mmol/l).  Fifteen percent of mothers with GDM will need insulin injections.  If elevated fasting glucose is the only problem, NPH insulin before bedtime is prescribed.  If sugar levels one hour after meals are elevated, then use rapid-acting insulin aspart or insulin lispro just before meals.  In some cases, both NPH and rapid-acting insulin are both necessary. Outside the U.S., glucose-lowering pills are sometimes used: glyburide and/or metformin most commonly. What About After Delivery? Having had gestational diabetes, the mother is at increased risk of developing typical non-pregnant diabetes in the future.  Regular exercise and loss of excess weight decrease the risk substantially. Steve Parker, M.D. Sources:  UpToDate.com article on gestational diabetes, accessed March, 2010 and October, 2011.  American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology position paper published in 2001. Diabetes Care, vol. 34, 2011: supplement 1: S62.  Blood sugar levels on the 3-hour 100-gram glucose tolerance test are from the Fourth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes, published in 2000. Share this: Email Print Facebook StumbleUpon Digg Twitter Reddit 8 Comments Filed under Diabetes Complications , Prevention of T2 Diabetes Tagged as diagnosis of gestational diabetes , gestational diabetes , glucose tolerance test , insulin , macrosomia , normal blood sugar during pregnancy , preeclampsia , treatment of gestational diabetes ← MORE Health Benefits of the Mediterranean Diet Expanded Blogroll: Need a Little Light Reading? → 8 Responses to Review: Gestational Diabetes Brenna March 16, 2010 at 6:01 AM Just had to throw in that babies born to mothers with GDM are at greater risk for being overweight and having DM later in life also. Reply Steve Parker, M.D. March 16, 2010 at 10:59 AM Good points, Brenna. [If this is the Brenna I think it is, note that she has a food and nutrition blog, Eating Simple, which is in my blogroll: http://eating-simple.blogspot.com/ -Steve Reply Brenna March 18, 2010 at 4:53 AM It its, thanks for the shout-out. Reply what is gestational diabetes April 21, 2010 at 5:43 AM Diabetes when detected in pregnant women is known as type 2 gestational diabetes. This diabetes occurs in the second trimester or even as far as the third trimester. There are many factors responsible for the development of gestational diabetes such as age, size or family history. Along with gestational diabetes, high blood pressure is a common problem. It is very important to follow a gestational diet plan to prevent gestational diabetes. It is very much necessary to keep a watch on the amount of calories intake. For more details refer http://www.areyoudiabetic.net/type-2-gestational-diabetes.html Reply Tianshi June 8, 2010 at 2:53 PM Not just exercise,but follow-up of a good diet.In take of plenty water.Have a cool state of mind,not nervous.Laugh alot Reply body lift guide February 7, 2011 at 3:42 AM Gestational diabetes affects the mother in late pregnancy and the baby too. Gestational diabetes is also called glucose intolerance of pregnancy. Reply Praying Pilgrim October 11, 2011 at 9:45 AM I have a question…The blood glucose levels that you have listed above are the same ones that my doc gave me (I failed my 1 hour test and refused the 3 hour test). The doc is treating me as GDM. I went to see a nurtitionist, followed the diet for the first week and ran all low blood sugars (all lower than 109 after meals). In frustration, I ate my regular diet and discovered the my levels went up but not past 144. My question is, when I looked up normal blood glucoce for pregnant women the range given by the American Diabetes Association for Pregnant Women was as follows: 80-110 before meals and >155 2 hours after. The American College of Ob. & Gyn Committee on Practice gives the following: Fasting 105 or less, 110 or less before meals, 155 or less 1 hour after the start of the meal and 135 or less 2 hours after the start of meal. This is a 25-30 point difference…where are do you get the numbers for blood glucose you list and my doc seems to agree with? I am not trying to be rude, just trying to understand. This the only place I found on the web that matches the numbers my doc gave. Thank you for your time. Reply Steve Parker, M.D. October 12, 2011 at 2:27 AM Hi, Praying Pilgrim.  Valid question. The source for my blood sugar numbers above is UpToDate.com, which I reviewed in 2010 and again today, and stand by my numbers.  UpToDate is available only to paid subrcribers ($400/yr), but there is a free (I think) consumer-oriented portion you may want to check out.  UpToDate is written mostly by medical school professors for other doctors. It’s updated much more often than textbooks.  For instance, the experts who wrote the gestational diabetes article now favor the 75-gram, 2-hour glucose tolerance test over the 3-hour 100-gram test (the opposite of their position in 2010). The numbers for the 50-gram screening test  I mention above are from an American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology position paper published in 2001. Upon review of the UpToDate GDM article today, I also learned that the experts there consider gestational diabetes to be present at the first prenatal visit if fasting blood sugar is 92 or over mg/dl (5.1 mmol/l or over) but under 126 mg/dl (7 mmol/l), or if hemoglobin A1c at the first prenatal visit is 6.5% or greater.  These numbers were endorsed by in January, 2011, by the American Diabetes Association (see Diabetes Care , vol. 34, 2011: supplement 1: S62. I will go into my original post and make some changes. Regarding blood sugar levels on the 3-hour, 100-garm glucose tolerance test: they are from the Fourth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes, published in 2000. Here’s a link to UpToDate’s gestational diabetes article for the general public, although I’m not sure it will work. You may have to register at the site: http://www.uptodate.com/contents/patient-information-gestational-diabetes-mellitus?source=see_link This is confusing, for sure. As the experts at UpToDate wrote, the definition of gestational diabetes is in flux. I hope this helps. -Steve Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Enter your comment here... Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: Email (required) (Address never made public) Name (required) Website You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change ) You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change ) You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change ) Cancel Connecting to %s Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Search for: Pages About About the Blog About Steve Parker, M.D. Code of Conduct Privacy And Legal Matters Buy Book Contact Disclaimer Drugs for Diabetes Ketogenic Mediterranean Diet Low-Carb Mediterranean Diet Prepare for Weight Loss T2 Diabetes and Low-Calorie Diets T2 Diabetes and Low-Carb Diets What Is Normal Blood Sugar? This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here . Conquer Diabetes and Prediabetes Promote Your Page Too Top Posts What Is Normal Blood Sugar? Low-Carb Mediterranean Diet Ketogenic Mediterranean Diet Does Cutting Out Sugary Drinks Help With Weight Loss? How Has the U.S. Diet Changed Over the Last Century? Prepare for Weight Loss Low-Carb Diet Reduces Weight AND Increases Adiponectin T2 Diabetes and Low-Carb Diets Drugs for Diabetes Recommended Supplements for the Ketogenic Mediterranean Diet Categories Alcohol (15) Bariatric Surgery (1) Book Reviews (22) cancer (8) Carbohydrate (58) Causes of Diabetes (25) coronary heart disease (44) Dairy Products (6) Dementia (2) Diabetes Complications (22) DM Prevalence (4) Drugs for Diabetes (41) Exercise (18) Fat in Diet (21) Fiber (6) Fish (13) Fruits (14) Glycemic Index and Load (15) Grains (14) Health Benefits (36) Inspiration (1) ketogenic diet (22) legumes (11) Longevity (1) Mediterranean Diet (68) My KMD Experience (53) nuts (9) olive oil (7) Overweight and Obesity (34) Paleo diet (3) Prevention of T2 Diabetes (16) Protein (8) Quote of the Day (26) Recipes (7) Shameless Self-Promotion (12) Stroke (11) Sugar (3) Sugar Substitutes (1) Supplements (1) Uncategorized (71) Vegetables (10) Vegetarian Diet (4) Weight Loss (46) Weight Regain (3) Blogroll About.com: Type 2 Diabetes Advanced Mediterranean Diet Blog All Day I Dream About Food CalorieLab News Carbohydrates Can Kill Diabetes Daily Diabetes Developments Diabetes Mine Diabetes Self-Management Diabetes Update Diet Doctor dLife Blogs dLife Diabetes Blog dLife Diabetes Support Forum Dr. Jay's Blog Eating Simple Evolutionary Psychiatry Fanatic Cook Fat Head Glycemic Index News Health Habits Healthy Low-Carb Living HIIT Mama Hold the Toast Press Livin' La Vida Low-Carb Low Carb Age Low Carb Dietitian Low Carb Diets Blog Michael R. Eades, M.D. My Carb-Sane Asylum Nutrition Unplugged OverLawyered Paleo Diabetic Perfect Health Diet Refuse to Regain Richard David Feinman Skeptic's Health Journal Club Splendid Low-Carbing Summer Tomato The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter The Oldways Table Unrestricted Tastes on Restricted Diets Valerie's Voice Weight Maven Whole Health Source Links CRACKED.com D-solve Diabetes Forums Mendosa.com Metabolism Society Bible Verse of the Day 1 John 5:14-15 “This is the confidence we have in approaching God: that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.  And if we know that he hears us—whatever we ask—we know that we have what we asked of him.” RSS - Posts Email Subscription Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. Join 93 other followers Diabetic Mediterranean Diet · Conquer Diabetes and Prediabetes With Low-Carb Eating Blog at WordPress.com . · Theme: Pilcrow by Automattic . Follow Follow “Diabetic Mediterranean Diet” Get every new post delivered to your Inbox. Join 93 other followers Powered by WordPress.com Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, pl