
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 06:08:41 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.8 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.2.4-2ubuntu5.14 with Suhosin-Patch
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.4-2ubuntu5.14
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alcohol Treatment Guidelines - The management of withdrawal syndromes - Part 7 - Detoxification from stimulant drugs - DryOutNow.com Alcohol Treatment and Alcoholism Advice for Alcoholics and their family THE MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWAL SYNDROMES DETOXIFICATION FROM STIMULANT DRUGS Abrupt cessation of stimulant (amphetamine, cocaine)
     use is associated with depression, anergia, anhedonia,
     increased drug craving, increased appetite, hypersomnolence
     and increased REM sleep (Weiss, Greenfield &
     Mirin, 1994). This initial period of intense symptoms
     is commonly termed the 'crash', which is usually selflimiting
     to a period of days. There have been reports
     of myocardial ischaemia occurring in the first week of
     stimulant withdrawal (Nademanee, Gorelick et al, 1989)
     although this is uncommon, and other medical effects
     are relatively minor. The 'dopamine deficiency' hypothesis of stimulant
     withdrawal has not been supported by clinical practice -
     controlled clinical trials of dopamine agonists have
     yielded inconsistent results. Similarly the use of tricyclic
     antidepressants to limit the effects of withdrawal on the
     basis that they inhibit presynaptic catecholamine neurotransmitter
     uptake, have failed to deliver any significant
     benefit. Antidepressants may however be useful in the
     treatment of an on-going depressive disorder associated
     with stimulant drug misuse. The stimulant withdrawal syndrome is thus best treated
     supportively and symptomatically by allowing the patient
     to sleep and eat as much as necessary. A benzodiazepine The stimulant withdrawal syndrome is best
       treated supportively and symptomatically
       by allowing the patient to sleep and eat
       as much as necessary. A benzodiazepine such as chlordiazepoxide
       may be helpful in selected patients who
       develop agitation or sleep disturbance. such as chlordiazepoxide may be helpful in selected patients who develop agitation or sleep disturbance (Pearsall & Rosen, 1992); these should not be continued
     any longer than two weeks. Neuroleptics should be
     avoided because of their potential to induce dysphoric
     side-effects. As for opiate drugs, the chronic stimulant misuser is
     likely to experience a protracted withdrawal syndrome
     for months or even years which is characterised by
     depressed mood, lethargy and anhedonia together with
     intense craving. There is no specific pharmacological
     antidote for this syndrome or to limit the likelihood of
     relapse, although concurrent depressive disorder may
     respond to antidepressants. In conclusion, the management of stimulant drug
     misuse is largely psycho-social at all stages. Next page .. DETOXIFICATION FROM NICOTINE Alcohol Guidelines index The above information is copyright of Dr Bruce Trathen MBBS MRCPsych (2006). ISBN 0-9545164-0-0. The author grants permission for these guidelines to be downloaded, copied and distributed freely, but does not grant permission for their sale. Medical Information Home Medical Information Alcohol Treatment Guidelines Alcoholism Research Articles Alcoholism Glossary Contact Us Why dryoutnow.com dryoutnow.com are staffed by doctors and other healthcare professionals committed and obliged to provide you with ethical advice. Get the right help now by calling 0845 003 6850 How to Stop Drinking Why Stop Drinking Alcohol ? Alcohol Abuse Treatment Rehabilitation Clinics Alcoholism Services Arrange immediate access to residential             treatment for alcoholism in any area of the UK. Dial 0845 370 0203 . Alcohol Treatment Phone 0845 370 0203 for Immediate Access to UK alcohol Treatment Quit Drinking Advice Call 0845 370 0203 Now dryoutnow.com Home About Triage Healthcare How We Work What Sets Us Apart Aftercare Our Alcohol Services Find Local Alcohol Help Press & Media Contact Us Medical information Alcohol Addiction Services Search for Alcoholism Articles Alcoholism Treatment Guidelines Alcohol Rehab Centres Alcoholism Glossary Alcoholism Resources Help for a friend Advice for family and friends Find Local Help Helping someone who drinks Free Resources to stop drinking Alcohol Assessment Alcohol Treatment Other people who have been helped Home Interventions Help for me Stop Drinking How to Enjoy Life without alcohol Alcohol Assessment Find Local Help Free Resources to stop drinking Other people who have been helped Alcohol Rehab Alcohol Rehab Centres Brochure of Rehab Centres Alcohol Treatment with DryOutNow Alcohol Rehab Articles Contact Us Local help Email Help Contact Us Our Alcohol Services Home Alcohol Detox Self Assessment Alcohol assessment Alcohol help Free Information on Alcohol Treatment How to Enjoy Life without Alcohol Self-Assessment Questionnaire Find Local Help Brochure of Treatment Centres Search website for Alcoholism Articles About DryOutNow.com Alcoholism Info 12 step recovery programme Abuse of alcohol Addiction clinic Alcohol abuse Alcoholic Alcoholics anonymous Alcohol Addiction help UK Alcohol Addiction Alcohol & drug counselling Alcohol dependence Alcohol Detox Alcohol problems Alcohol rehab centre Alcohol rehab programme Alcoholism symptoms Alcohol problems Medical Information Centre Guidelines for Treatment Recent Research Articles Recent News Articles Alcohol Services provided by DryOutNow.com © DryOutNow.com | Press & Media | Pr