Content-Type: text/html
X-IBS-CCDS-VERSION: 2.16.16
X-IBS-CCDS-ORIGIN: origin124
X-Flow: xslt-in-production
Cache-Control: max-age=600
Expires: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 08:56:48 GMT
Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 08:46:48 GMT
Connection: close

Flathead County Confirms One Case Of Whooping Cough - News Story - NBCMontana NBC Montana Missoula 43 ° Bozeman 36 ° Kalispell 37 ° VIEW AFFECTED COUNTIES » HOME News Weather Weather Watchers Montana Today Sports News Staff Email Newsletters Public Files Contact Us KECI KECI News Weather Montana Today Sports News Staff Around Town Gold Star Advertising Station Information Contact KECI KECI Facebook KCFW KCFW News Weather Montana Today Sports News Staff Around Town Gold Star Advertising Station Information Contact KCFW KCFW Facebook KTVM KTVM News Weather Montana Today Sports News Staff Around Town Gold Star Advertising Station Information Contact KTVM KTVM Facebook Multimedia Image Gallery Video Gallery Submit Your Photos Submit Your Videos Programming Station Programming NBC Kids TV Regis and Kelly Nate Berkus The Doctors Ellen Entertainment Tonight FAQ Lifestyle Health Real Estate Auto Travel Money House and Home Entertainment At The Movies Employment Employment EEO Fastlinks This TV Me TV Contact Us KECI KCFW KTVM Waiver Requests Submit a News Story Idea Montana Today Interview Request Gold Star Nomination Community Calendar Submission Home / News RSS E-mail Mobile Flathead County Confirms One Case Of Whooping Cough FLATHEAD COUNTY By Rebecca Vogt KCFW Reporter POSTED: 5:57 pm MDT March 23, 2012 UPDATED: 9:26 pm MDT March 24, 2012 WHITEFISH, Mont. -- The Health Department has confirmed a case of pertussis in a Whitefish Middle School student. Parents of Whitefish students have been notified using a phone information system and notices have also been sent home with students. As a precaution, the department has also cancelled a middle school band concert, in order to stop the whooping cough infection in its tracks. Health officials urge anyone with a cough lasting more than five days to see a doctor. They're also advising students to get the pertussis vaccine. "When an individual gets pertussis or its identified and confirmed then generally we put them on a course of antibiotics usually for five days,” said Community Health Director Jody White, “and then once they've completed that they're no longer contagious and can go back to school, daycare, or work.” Additional details can be found on the Flathead County Health Department’s website or by calling the pertussis hotline at 751-8188. UPDATE: The Flathead County Health Department says the quick response from Whitefish school administrators and nurses has prevented the spread of whooping cough. As of Saturday afternoon, Health Officer Joe Russell tells NBC Montana there are no new reported cases of whooping cough after one Whitefish Middle School student contracted the illness. He says his office took crucial steps to prevent the spread such as giving students who were in close contact a five day course of antibiotics. The department also set up guidelines for a youth wrestling match, refusing entry to anyone with signs of the illness. Health officials will know more about the issue when lab results come back to their office. You share in the NBC Montana.com community, so please keep your comments smart and civil. Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent. Use the "Report Abuse" link if a comment violates these standards or our terms of use. The views expressed are not those of NBCMontana.com, NBCMontana or its affiliated companies. This is a community moderated forum. (Please note the 'Like' and 'Report' buttons.) By posting your comments you agree to accept our Terms of Use . Comments View the discussion thread. blog comments powered by Disqus Comments The views expressed are not those of NBCMontana.com, NBCMontana or its affiliated companies. This is a community moderated forum. By posting your comments you agree to accept our Terms of Use . Commenting for this story has been disabled. Local Headlines Car Catches Fire, Driver Charged With Aggravated DUI Committee Still Taking Suggestions For Fairgrounds Fire Dept: Kids Started E. Missoula Grass Fire Study: Bear Spray Tops Guns In Stopping Grizzlies Financial Struggles Common Among Military Families Tribes Aim To Stop Mine Beneath Mont. Wilderness Electricity Gives A Jolt To Bear Repellent Efforts Whitefish Family Sweeps Stamp Contest Flathead Ski Resorts Happy About End Of Season Weather Country Singers Audition For Texaco Country Showdown Community Action Partnership Calm First Time Homebuyer's Nerves Flathead Residents Celebrate Life Of Late County Commissioner Flathead County Confirms One Case Of Whooping Cough Popular Rock Band Donates To Outdoor Learning Center Montana Ambassadors Honor MSU President Waded Cruzado Gallatin Residents Talk One On One With Building Industry Pros Investment Group Agrees To Buy Bozeman Armory MSU Sexual Assualt Case Causes Waves Through Campus F.W.P. Teaches Young Students How To Hunt Safely Organizers Call TEDx Bozeman A Huge Success Sponsored Links Regional Headlines Clown Caught Trespassing On Bellingham RR Tracks Pentagon Nominates New Lewis-McChord Commander Idaho Lawmaker Sparks Anger With Abortion Comments House Lawmakers Pass Texting-While-Driving Ban Board Gives Nod To Gravel Mine On Salmon River Wife Of Afghan Shooting Suspect Offers Condolences Links We Like Most Popular Stories Financial Struggles Common Among Military Families Military families aren't surprised when they hear
about the financial struggles that Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, his
wife and children faced at home. It's part of their lives, too. Car Catches Fire, Driver Charged With Aggravated DUI A dramatic scene greeted Florence fire crews Sunday morning, when they responded to a car fire on Highway 93. 

Montana Highway Patrol Troopers say the man driving the car was heavily intoxicated. Fire Dept: Kids Started E. Missoula Grass Fire Sunday afternoon crews responded to a grass fire in East Missoula that they say was started by two kids with a lighter. Flathead Ski Resorts Happy About End Of Season Weather It may have seemed like a mild winter, but experts say the snowpack is slightly above average throughout Western Montana. Committee Still Taking Suggestions For Fairgrounds A county committee is working to come up with ideas to keep the Missoula fairgrounds busy and profitable year-round. Video Whitefish Family Sweeps Stamp Contest (03/25/12) Yaak Valley Murder Victim Identified, Was A Registered Sex Offender (03/22/12) Slideshows Highest-Grossing Movies Of All Time "The Hunger Games" raked in an estimated $155 million in its opening weekend. Take a look at Box Office Mojo's list of the top 15 highest-grossing movies of all time. Male Celebrities' Dramatic Weight Loss Now that more than 30% of American men older than 20 are overweight, diet companies like Weight Watchers and Nutrisystem have started targeting more men in their campaigns as well as women. Check out these celebrity men who have undergone dramatic weight loss transformations using a variety of methods. Best Of The Worst: Mug Shot Hall Of Shame Check out these lookers who ran into the law. More Most Popular » Bonten Media News WCTI Deputies: Murder Suspect Throws Urine On Jailer KTXS Human Remains Found, Raising Questions Of Hailey Dunn Disappearance KRCR New Details: Suspect Uses Stolen Plane From Paradise In Getaway WCYB Eight-Year-Old Dies While Helping Family Out Of Fire Table of Contents Home KECI KCFW KTVM Pictures Programming Lifestyle Fastlinks Employment Contact Us Copyright © 2012 Bonten Media Group, Montana USA - All Rights Reserved. In association with: Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms Of Use | Advertising | EEO Policy | Microsoft MapPoint Terms of Use | Microsoft Privacy Statement | 