
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 10:41:15 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.sublimis.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2011  July | Sublimis Blog Home Plastic Surgery Abroad Bariatric Surgery Abroad Dental Implants Abroad Fertility Treatments Abroad Hair Transplant Abroad Archive for July, 2011 Jul 26 2011 Diabetes and Obesity Combo a Major Red Flag in Pregnancy Posted by Plastic Surgeon in Bariatric Surgery Abroad , Fertility Treatments Abroad , tags: argentina , bariatric surgery , diabetes , obesity Diabetes and Obesity Combo a Major Red Flag in Pregnancy Type 2 diabetes and obesity in pregnancy is a daunting duo, according to new research published this month in The Journal of Maternal-Fetal and Neonatal Medicine. The study shows that both conditions independently contribute to higher risks, opening the door to a wide range of pregnancy, delivery and newborn complications. Study authors say the findings are important because obesity and type 2 diabetes are skyrocketing in women of childbearing age. A study in The Journal of the American Medical Association reports that between 2007 and 2008 the prevalence of obesity among adult women in the United States was more than 35 percent. A report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states that approximately 11 percent of women above the age of 20 had diabetes in 2010. Loralei Thornburg, M.D., senior study author and a high-risk pregnancy expert at the University of Rochester Medical Center, emphasizes that the research is needed now more than ever. “We’ve never seen the degree of obesity and type 2 diabetes in women that we are seeing right now, because for a very long time diabetes was a disease of an older population, so we rarely dealt with it in prenatal care. We hope this new knowledge will help physicians better understand and care for this rapidly expanding group of high-risk women.” While numerous studies have established that obesity, in the absence of diabetes, is associated with problems in pregnancy – preterm birth, birth trauma, blood loss and a prolonged hospital stay, to name a few – less is known about type 2 diabetes and what causes difficulties when the two conditions coexist. Researchers from Rochester wanted to determine if obesity alone accounts for the increased risks in this “dual-diagnosis” group, or if diabetes plays a role as well. To determine the influence of obesity and type 2 diabetes when the conditions coexist in pregnancy, Thornburg and lead study author Kristin Knight, M.D., used clinical records and the hospital’s birth certificate database to identify 213 pairs of women who delivered babies at the Medical Center between 2000 and 2008. Each pair included a diabetic and a non-diabetic patient with approximately the same pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI). The majority of women in the study were overweight, obese or morbidly obese. “We matched the pairs pound for pound, because if obesity was the main problem, we’d see similar outcomes between women, whether they had diabetes or not. But if we saw different outcomes between pairs, we’d know the diabetes was impacting outcomes as well,” said Thornburg. Using mathematical models and controlling for outside factors, such as age and tobacco use, researchers found that the patients with type 2 diabetes had overall worse pregnancy, delivery and newborn outcomes than their BMI-matched counterparts. Specifically, diabetic patients had higher rates of preeclampsia, cesarean delivery, shoulder dystocia, preterm delivery, large for gestational age infant, fetal anomaly and admission to the neonatal intensive care unit. “Women and their physicians need to be aware that each condition on its own increases risk in pregnancy, so when they coexist the situation is even more worrisome,” said Knight, a maternal fetal medicine fellow at Rochester. “Pregnancy is a time of great change, and fortunately many women are very open to making modifications during this period in their life. Anything a woman can do to improve her condition, from controlling blood sugar and exercising, to eating nutritious foods and maintaining an optimal weight, will help her deliver a healthier baby.” Knight originally focused her research on the effects of type 1 and type 2 diabetes on pregnancy. In a previous study, she found that women with type 2 diabetes, most of whom were also obese, had poorer outcomes. Consequently, her research turned to obese, type 2 diabetics and their experiences in pregnancy. “If a woman enters pregnancy obese, but hasn’t developed type 2 diabetes, she is in a better place than if she had both,” concluded Thornburg. In addition to Knight and Thornburg, Eva K. Pressman, M.D., and David N. Hackney, M.D., from the Medical Center, also participated in the research. Note: Sublimis offers fertility treatments abroad and weight loss surgery in Argentina No Comments » Jul 04 2011 New Study Finds That Gastric Banding Pays for Itself Posted by Plastic Surgeon in Affordable Medical Treatments , Bariatric Surgery Abroad , News , tags: adjustable gastric banding , gastric banding , gastric bypass surgery , gastric sleeve surgery New Study Finds That Gastric Banding Pays for Itself In Approximately Two Years for Patients With Diabetes and Four Years for Patients Without Diabetes - Analysis Demonstrates Gastric Banding is a Safe and Cost-Effective Weight-Loss Surgery Procedure - Note: Sublimis Argentina offers affordable bariatric surgery abroad . Feel free to contact us for more information Irvine, CA – Allergan, Inc. announced a new study published in the peer-reviewed journal Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases that found the cost of a gastric banding weight-loss surgery procedure, such as Allergan’s LAP-BAND® Adjustable Gastric Banding System, was offset by reductions in obesity-related medical costs within 2.25 years for surgery eligible patients with diabetes, and within four years of the procedure for all surgery eligible patients. The study evaluated healthcare claims data from 7,310 patients who had undergone gastric banding compared to claims from a matched control group of 7,306 surgery eligible obese individuals who did not have weight-loss surgery, for the purpose of quantifying the potential savings of gastric banding. The study found that while post-surgery medical costs for the gastric banding group declined slightly, medical costs for the control group continued to rise, thus resulting in significant savings for the banding sample. These findings underscore the critical effect gastric banding has on containing healthcare costs among the target population. “Although the gastric banding procedure is associated with upfront costs, our analysis shows that those costs are recovered in a relatively short period of time, particularly for obese patients with diabetes,” said study lead author Eric A. Finkelstein, Ph.D., of Duke University and Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School in Singapore. “Although the potential for cost-savings should not drive coverage decisions, some insurance providers are hesitant to cover the costs of bariatric procedures for fear they will break the bank. These results may allay some of those concerns,” Finkelstein said. - Before and after bariatric surgery in Argentina Currently, one in three American adults is obese. Due to increased medical expenditures, absenteeism, and presenteeism (reduced on the job productivity due to health reasons), obesity now costs U.S. businesses roughly $70 billion per year. The total medical bill for the nation as a result of obesity is now projected at $147 billion per year, or nearly 10 percent of all medical expenses in the United States. This figure is projected to reach 16-18 percent of all U.S. healthcare costs in the next 20 years. Given its known correlation to life-threatening co-morbid conditions, such as heart disease, stroke, Type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, sleep apnea and even premature death, obesity is a disease that requires medical treatment. Furthermore, medical research has found that if left untreated those individuals who are currently obese will likely remain obese, highlighting the unmet clinical need among obese patients for the availability of and reimbursement for effective treatment options. “This study is consistent with the vast findings from the published literature that support gastric banding is an effective and safe weight-loss surgery procedure that can produce sustained weight loss, ultimately resulting in reduction of obesity-related comorbid conditions and medical costs,” said Frederick Beddingfield, M.D., Allergan’s Vice President of Clinical Research and Development. “Research of this kind is integral in our efforts as a company to ensure appropriate access to and affordability for the LAP-BAND® System procedure for patients across the country.” Read the rest of this entry » No Comments » Follow us: Search Sublimis Blog en español: Lo Ultimo en Cirugia Plastica Archives January 2012 December 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 January 2011 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 November 2007 Categories Affordable Medical Treatments Bariatric Surgery Abroad Blepharoplasty Breast Augmentation Chin Surgery Cirugia Bariatrica Cirugia Plastica Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Abroad Endocrine Surgery Abroad Facelift Surgery Fertility Treatments Abroad Gastric Bypass surgery Liposuction Lips lift and Augmentation Medical Spa Medicina Reproductiva News Odontologia Orthopedic Surgery Abroad Phlebology Rhinoplasty traumatología y ortopedia Tummy Tuck Uncategorized United Kingdom Plastic Surgery United States Plastic Surgery NetworkedBlogs Blog: Sublimis Blog Topics: medical tourism , plastica surgery , argentina Follow my blog Powered by WordPres