Connection: Close

Probiotics Definition LoveToKnow » Health & Fitness » Vegetarian » Vegetarian Eating » Probiotics Definition Probiotics Definition Miso contains probiotics. By Carly Schuna A probiotics definition includes tiny, microscopic organisms that many people believe benefit the human body and digestive system. These tiny bacteria are found in live cultures of fermented foods like yogurt and miso. They are added by manufacturers to other foods and made into supplements as well. Scientists continue to study the benefits of probiotics on the human body, but preliminary research shows that probiotics may aid digestion, reduce inflammation and bloating, and even ease symptoms of lactose intolerance and other maladies. Probiotics Definition The body contains millions of microorganisms and bacterial strains, some of which are beneficial and some of which are harmful. Probiotics are "good" bacteria similar to types of bacteria that normally exist in the human body. Because these bacteria are similar to those most people already have, they aren't necessary for good health, but they can work with existing bacteria to provide the body with even greater benefits. Several genera of bacteria can be classified as probiotics. The most common are Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium . Other types include: Saccharomyces (a yeast) Bacillus Escherichia Enterococcus All of these microorganisms must meet specific criteria to be classified under the probiotics definition. Basically, they must be living when they enter the body, they must have been documented as having some kind of health benefit, and they must be consumed in amounts that could conceivably offer those benefits. Probiotics work mainly in the large intestine, where they finish the process of digesting any foods not digested in the small intestine. Their growth results in the release of organic acids, which make it less likely for harmful bacteria to grow and develop in the intestines.Probiotics are found in nutritional supplements and fermented foods such as kefir, buttermilk, yogurt, miso, or tempeh. Sometimes they develop and grow naturally as a result of an item's fermentation; in other cases, they are added to a product during its manufacturing process. In natural and alternative medicine fields, probiotics are sometimes used to prevent or even treat digestive and intestinal conditions. It's important not to confuse probiotics with prebiotics , which are indigestible substances that stimulate the activity and effectiveness of beneficial bacteria already found in the body. Benefits Probiotics are believed to help the digestive system. What can probiotics do that other bacteria can't? The jury is still out on just how beneficial these microorganisms are, but preliminary scientific research in multiple studies shows compelling evidence that probiotics: Treat or prevent diarrhea Cut the risk of UTIs and yeast infections Alleviate the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome Lessen the severity and duration of intestinal maladies Reduce inflammation Lower the risk of eczema in children and young people Help manage lactose intolerance Cut the risk of colon cancer Lower cholesterol and blood pressure Boost the immune system's functions Stagnate growth of harmful bacteria Getting Probiotics Probiotics can be purchased in supplement form at health-food markets and natural-food stores. They can also be found at the grocery store, in naturally fermented products. Many of these products are dairy items, such as yogurt, buttermilk, cottage cheese, and kefir . Vegans can also get probiotics by eating non-dairy fermented sources of the bacteria, such as kim chi, sauerkraut, tempeh, miso, and kombucha . All of these foods provide relatively small amounts of probiotics, but the effects of eating them are somewhat cumulative and can make a difference over time. Risks For healthy people, there are generally no risks or negative side effects to consuming probiotics. Since they are so similar to bacteria that already exist in the gut, they don't have any known adverse effects. However, for patients who are very ill or who have compromised immune systems, probiotics should not be used as a treatment and may even worsen illness. Related Topics Good Egg Substitutes in Baking President Clinton Vegetarian Vegan Probiotics Probiotic Foods Types of Probiotics Panang Tofu Curry Vegetarian Eating Health & Fitness Get Vegetarian Advice Get advice from our experts, the LoveToKnow community, and your friends! What would you love to get advice on? Get Advice Give Vegetarian Advice Help our LoveToKnow Vegetarian community by giving your advice for these recent requests: Probiotics vs Prebiotics Vegan Menu vegetarian diet Or browse more topics to see what kind of advice people need. Give Advice Need Advice? Our LoveToKnow Vegetarian community has people willing to help. Describe
your problem in the box below to get the advice you need. Get Advice Browse Vegetarian Categories Benefits of Juicing Growing Sprouts Kombucha Mushroom Protein Sources for Vegetarians Raw Food Diet Plan Tofu Nutrition Vegan Essentials Vegetarian Eating Vegetarian Meals Vegetarian Slideshows Vegetarian Slideshows Living Food Diet How to Make Seitan LoveToKnow Expert Interview Ann Gentry on Vegan Family Meals Ann Gentry, founder of LA's vegan restaurant Real Food Daily, offers advice on where to begin with vegan cooking. New in Vegetarian Vegan Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe Sample Vegan Diet Menu Harmony Valley Vegetarian Mix Review Biscoff Spread Vegan Nut Butter Alternative 30 Minute Vegetarian Meals Follow Us Home Beauty & Style Entertainment & Hobbies Health & Fitness Home, Garden & Events Internet & Technology Money & Business Parenting 