
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.0.0
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 05:20:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17

Asthma Articles: Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Services of Central NY 19 Kellogg Rd, New Hartford, NY 13413 Telephone: (315) 601-6187 Chinese Medicine - Alternative Healthcare for Picture Perfect Health Home | Asthma July 12, 2011 TCM Herbal Remedy for Chronic Asthma In upstate NY, we are finally in the throes of heat and humidity or what we call the dog days of summer.  This is the time when thousands of people in mainland China are lining up at special clinics in their local hospitals to start herbal plaster therapy, or fu tie, for chronic asthma and other respiratory diseases. In Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), it is common knowledge that the best time to treat a chronic winter disease is during the hottest time of the year. In summer the yang (hot) energy of the universe is at its peak and the yin (cold) energy is at its lowest point.  Chinese medicine believes that the human body is a microcosm of the universe, and therefore the same principal holds true.  People who suffer from pulmonary disorders that are aggravated by cold weather typically are constitutionally deficient of yang energy and therefore susceptible to an invasion of pathogenic cold.  Summer is the best time to strengthen the yang energy of the body. The treatment for asthma involves applying an herbal paste to acupuncture points on the upper back.  Chinese herbs that are warm in nature or have the function to eliminate phlegm are used in the preparations.  One such formula grinds equal amounts of bai jie zi, yan hu suo, gan sui, and xi xin into a powder and moistens the mixture with ginger juice to form a paste.  Cakes the size of a quarter are positioned over acupuncture points, covered with gauze and tape and left  in place for three to four hours.  Because the pores of the skin are open during this hot time of year, the medicinal properties of the herbs are more readily absorbed into the body. Continue reading this entry on Asthma » Posted by Joyce Marley at 03:00 AM | TCM Herbal Remedy for Chronic Asthma July 19, 2010 Chinese Herbs: Ginseng, The “Man Root” Ginseng is probably the most famous, most commonly used, and possibly one of the most powerful herbs in the history of Chinese Herbal medicine.  The Chinese pinyin name for ginseng is Ren Shen which translates to “man root”.  One of the oldest principals of Chinese herbal medicine is that the shape, texture or color of a plant or natural substance may mimic certain parts of the body or attributes of certain diseases and therefore suggest a therapeutic correspondence. In the case of ginseng root, Chinese farmers noticed centuries ago that it is shaped like a human body with head, arms and legs and therefore they deducted that it would strengthen the Qi, or energy, of the whole body.  Years of experience using this herb have proven this to be true.  Ren Shen, therefore has been catalogued in Chinese herbal medicine as a Qi tonic. Continue reading this entry on Asthma » Posted by Joyce Marley at 05:21 AM | Chinese Herbs: Ginseng, The “Man Root” June 05, 2010 What Does Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Treat? When I was a first year student in my TCM training, in my enthusiasm and eagerness to apply what I was learning to my future patients, I would approach my professors and say, for example, “can Chinese medicine treat fibromyalgia?”  Or, “can Chinese medicine treat multiple sclerosis?”  Every time, I would get the same response - “what are the signs and symptoms?” We are talking about a system of medicine that has been around for thousands of years.  There really is no frame of reference in Chinese medicine to the Western disease labels that have evolved in modern times.  Chinese medicine will always look at everything going on in the body and determine an imbalance of yin and  yang, Qi and Blood.  In fact, there is a very famous saying in Chinese medicine - “one disease, many treatments...many diseases, one treatment.” What I love about “The Treatment of Modern Western Medical Diseases with Chinese Medicine”, co-authored by Bob Flaws and Philippe Sionneau, is the detailed analysis of 72 different Western medicine labels and all the patterns of imbalance that are usually associated with them in Chinese medicine.  For each of the diseases there is information on the Western etiology, treatment and prognosis.  And then a detailed analysis of the disease mechanisms from a Chinese medicine aspect.  Acupuncture and herbal treatments are suggested based on pattern discrimination.  Summary remarks address the prognosis from a Chinese medicine point of view. Continue reading this entry on Asthma » Posted by Joyce Marley at 05:23 AM | What Does Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Treat? March 29, 2008 Traditional Chinese Medicine Cupping Therapy Cupping Therapy has been an integral part of Chinese medicine for thousands of years and continues to be incorporated into treatments today.  This book by Ilkay Zihni Chitali is an excellent resource for the practitioner of Chinese medicine.  Mr. Chitali provides details for ten different cupping methods.  For each method he explains the technique itself in detail along with valuable illustrations. Examples are given for conditions that may benefit from that particular technique.  Half of the book (almost 100 pages) is devoted to specific treatment protocols for common ailments.  Cupping instructions are given along with acupuncture points, moxibustion and herbal remedies. Case studies accompany each section. Several techniques may be used with children and he specifically notes the difference in cupping duration and technique that should be applied for each age group. Continue reading this entry on Asthma » Posted by Joyce Marley at 07:13 AM | Traditional Chinese Medicine Cupping Therapy June 30, 2006 What Can Acupuncture Treat? The World Health Organization has recognized over 40 common health problems that acupuncture can effectively treat. Most people are aware that acupuncture treats pain, but many do not know the wide range of painful conditions that are commonly improved with acupuncture. Acupuncture treats pain anywhere in the body, including but not limited to: back pain, frozen shoulder, carpal tunnel syndrome, TMJ, trigeminal neuralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, sciatica, plantar fasciitis, shingles pain and migraines. But acupuncture can also treat digestive disorders such as nausea, acid reflux and irritable bowel syndrome. It is commonly used to treat asthma and sinus problems. Acupuncture is very powerful to treat gynecological problems including PMS, menopausal symptoms, endometriosis and even infertility. Continue reading this entry on Asthma » Posted by Webmaster at 04:00 PM | What Can Acupuncture Treat? Home | Meet Joyce | Try It! | In the News | Brochure | Location | Contact | Disclaimer | Article Index Basic Theory | Book Reviews | Common Questions | Health A-Z | Nutrition Therapy | Testimonials Copyright ©2006 Acupuncture Services of Central New York Alternative Health Care for the  Whitesboro, Clinton, 
      