Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Suggested day plan to deal with your menopausal night sweats | 34-menopause-symptoms HOME Menopause Symptoms Topics About: Night Sweats Night Sweats About Night Sweats Definition Symptoms Who is affected? Causes of Night Sweats Hormonal causes Other causes Triggers Night Sweats Treatments Articles About: Night Sweats General Research Suggested day plan to deal with your menopausal night sweats Knowing how to deal with the many signs and symptoms that come with the natural transition that is menopause is crucial in dealing with them quickly and effectively. Night sweats are one of the most common, and most disruptive, of these symptoms and it is believed that up to 75% of all women going through menopause experience this nocturnal discomfort. Waking up drenched in perspiration is the main annoyance for women (and husbands) as your sleep gets disturbed. This can make you crankier during the day as you don’t get the beauty sleep you need. Other disturbing effects of night sweats include irregular heartbeat, chills and nausea. Keep reading for a possible day plan to battle menopausal night sweats. Day plan for night sweats • 7am – When you wake, try going for a quick run. Anything from 20-30 minutes will get the blood flowing and get you alert for the day. Blowing off the cobwebs can give you more energy for the day ahead, even if you are being disturbed by night sweats. • 8am – Make sure you have a cool, but not cold, shower and a simple breakfast. Cereal and a cup of tea can work; some menopausal women suggest that herbal tea helps their symptoms. • 9am-5pm – Whilst at work try to keep calm; keep your desk organize, plan your day and have some laughs in the office. Mid-morning get some fruit for a snack, an orange is a great source of vitamin C which you need at this point. Ensure there is a glass of water on your table in case you need a drink (recommended eight glasses a day). For lunch try a simple salad. • 6pm – Following work try some alone time. Away from any distractions, just read a book and keep yourself content. An idea would be to try some pilates or yoga to stretch your muscles and aid relaxation. • 7pm – A simple dinner. Hold the condiments and spices, anything that might trigger a night sweat and keep the alcohol at a safe distance. Maybe some fish and potatoes would be ideal to help night sweats whilst also any other symptoms you may have. • 10pm – It’s time to sleep and this is the most worrying part. Try to make sure your bedroom is cool, either with a fan, window open or asking your partner to sleep in a separate bed. Then you need to consider: Clothing Wearing practical pajamas is good for night sweats and by practical we mean not restrictive or overly tight. Instead, sleep naked or with ‘breathable’ pajamas. Bedding Keep away from satin and fabrics of that ilk, instead opt for the thin and comforting cotton to keep you cool yet comfy during those sleeping hours. Water Always keep it handy to lower body temperature. More about night sweats Avoiding the common triggers that are spices, alcohol and caffeine is one thing but why not try to get in to a routine. These routines should include daily exercises, simply and nourishing meals alongside adequate sleeping time. Click the following link for more about night sweats. Other Related Articles: What do night sweats indicate? What causes heavy night sweats? Understanding Night Sweats Causes The causes of Night Sweats Sources: The National Institute of Health. "Signs of the Menopausal Transition." www.nih.gov. Boston Women's Health Collective. "Hot Flashes, Night Sweats and Sleep Disturbances." Our Bodies, Ourselves, 2006. Von Muhlen, DG, et al.  "A community-based study of menopause symptoms and estrogen replacement in older women." Maturitas. Sept 1995; 22(2):71-8. ©Copyright 2011. Suggested day plan to d