
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 15:47:30 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ginkgo Biloba  - Side Effects and Benefits of Ginkgo Biloba HOME CONTACT US SEARCH DISEASES DRUGS HOME REMEDIES HERBAL MEDICINES CONTACT US LINKS Herbal Medicines Agrimony Alfalfa Aloe Vera American Ginseng Angelica Arnica Asafoetida Ashwagandha Asian Ginseng Avens Astragalus Barberry Beth Root Bee Balm Blessed Thistle Bilberry Balsam of Peru Black Cohosh Black Currant And Borage Oil Bugleweed Borage Boswellia Cabbage Capsicum Peppers Cardamom Chebulic Myrobylan Carline Thistle Castor Bean Cats Claw Chromium Chamomile Creatine Monohydrate Chickweed Chaste Tree Coenzyme Q10 Coltsfoot Comfrey Condurango Chirata Chaparral Cinnamon Cloves Coconut Coriander Comfrey Cumin Cutch Tree Damiana Dandelion Dates Deodar Devil's Claw Daffodil Dhub Grass Dill Dhea And Dheas Devils Claw Dong-quai Echinacea Elderberry Ginkgo Biloba - Uses and Benefits Botanical Name: - Ginkgo biloba Common Name:- Maidenhair tree Ginkgo biloba leaf extract is the most widely sold phytomedicine in Europe, where it is used to treat the symptoms of early-stage Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, peripheral claudication, and tinnitus of vascular origin. The Ginkgo tree is also called the  Maidenhair Tree because its leaves closely resemble those of the Maidenhair Fern. Ginkgo biloba is one of the most unique trees on the planet today. This fascinating tree is dioecious :  male and female flowers grow on different trees. The Ginkgo hasn't been found growing in the wild but it has been preserved as a sacred tree in Chinese temple gardens since ancient times. Ginkgo biloba has been used medicinally for thousands of years. Ginkgo is used for the treatment of numerous conditions, many which are under scientific investigation. The ginkgo biloba tree is considered to be the oldest living species of tree. It can be traced back more than two hundred million years, existing even before the Ice Age. Each tree may live as long as a thousand years and does not even bear flowers until it is twenty to thirty years old. Dosage of Ginkgo Biloba:- For patients who have memory problems and dementia, the dosage of ginkgo is 120 to 240 mg daily, taken in two to three doses. The dosage for patients who have tinnitus and peripheral vascular disease is no more than 160 mg per day, taken in two or three doses. Uses of Ginkgo biloba:- The important uses of ginkgo biloba are as:- Ginkgo works by increasing blood flow to the brain and throughout the body's network of blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the organ systems. It increases metabolism efficiency, regulates neurotransmitters, and boosts oxygen levels in the brain which uses 20% of the body's oxygen. Ginkgo has two groups of active substances, flavonoids and terpene lactones, including ginkgolides A, B, and C, bilobalide, quercetin, and kaempferol. The ginkgolides have been shown to control allergic inflammation, anaphylactic shock and asthma. Ginkgo also acts as a powerful antioxidant and contributes to the oxidation of free radicals which are believed to contribute to premature aging and dementia. Antioxidants also protect the eyes, cardiovascular system and central nervous system. Ginkgo has been used in traditional medicine to treat circulatory disorders and enhance memory. Scientific studies throughout the years lend support to these traditional uses. Side Effects of Ginkgo Biloba:- Below are some Ginkgo Biloba side effects and cautions: Ginkgo biloba can cause some gastrointestinal discomfort and headaches Should not be used if your taking anti-depressant drugs known as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) - there could be a negative drug interaction Ginkgo may increase risk of bleeding, and should not be used if you have a clotting disorder Ginkgo Biloba should not be used by pregnant women Other side effects include, headaches, restlessness, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting Overall, ginkgo leaf extract  appears to be well tolerated in most healthy adults at recommended doses for up to six months. In several reviews, ginkgo was associated with similar rates of side effects as placebo. Minor symptoms including headache, nausea, and intestinal complaints have been reported. Benefits of Ginkgo Biloba:- Help to maintain normal circulation. Help to maintain the normal function and tone of blood vessels. Maintain oxygen and glucose metabolism in the brain. Prevent capillary fragility and blood leakage into surrounding tissue. Help the normal function of factors that maintain a normal blood flow. Maintain normal coagulation of blood. Reduce tissue damage caused by low blood flow. Inhibit radiation-induced brain edema. Herbal Medicines Elecampane Ephedra Eucalyptus Evening Primrose Eyebright Fennel Fenugreek Feverfew Garlic Gentian Ginger Ginkgo-biloba Ginseng Glucosamine Chondroitin Sulfate Goldenseal Goldenseal Gotu Cola Guggul Hyssop Juniper Kava Kava Kudzu Lavender Lobelia Lobelia Lomatium Marshmallow Meadowsweet Milk Thistle Nettle HEALTH CARE | ABOUT US | CONTACT US | BLOG © 2005 Online-Health-Care.com . All rights reserved. Disclaimer: Online-Health-Care.com is for informational purposes only and is not intended to act as a substitute for a professional healthcare practitioner advise. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, please consult your doctor. We will not be liable for any complications, injuries or other medical accidents arising from or in connection with t