
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 10:23:24 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: exp_last_activity=1329647005; expires=Mon, 18-Feb-2013 10:23:25 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: exp_tracker=a%3A4%3A%7Bi%3A0%3Bs%3A75%3A%22articles%2Fd-mannose-offers-great-protection-against-urinary-tract-infections%22%3Bi%3A1%3Bs%3A61%3A%22articles%2Ffish-oil-and-glucosamine-offer-osteoarthritis-relief%22%3Bi%3A2%3Bs%3A68%3A%22articles%2Fpygeum-africanum-effectively-relieves-enlarged-prostate-bph%22%3Bi%3A3%3Bs%3A84%3A%22articles%2Fpowerful-amino-acid-l-citrulline-proven-to-naturally-restore-erectile-funct%22%3B%7D; path=/
Last-Modified: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 10:23:25 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

D-Mannose Offers Great Protection Against Urinary Tract Infections | Smart Publications Smart Publications About Us Contact Us Health A-Z Health Advisor Health Issues Products Resources Books Blog Advanced Search Home » Articles » D-Mannose Offers Great Protection Against Urinary Tract Infections A A A D-Mannose Offers Great Protection Against Urinary Tract Infections The disease with lots of different names No matter what you call it—cystitis, bladder infection, urinary tract infection or UTI—the symptoms are a real pain in the bladder. You have the sudden urge to pee, but when you make it to the bathroom you feel more of a burning sensation than relief. And if you don’t nip it in the bud, that burning can progress to a full-blown infection that includes fever, chills, lower abdominal pain and/or blood in the urine. About one out of two women will have a UTI at least once during her lifetime. But men can also get bladder infections, especially if they have an enlarged prostate. Urine travels down two thin tubes called ureters to the bladder. Also, a large percentage of individuals with spinal cord injuries suffer from UTIs, and guess who most of those individuals are? Young men who have had accidents—especially motorcycle—or have sustained injuries as a result of combat. Preventing UTIs … naturally The typical treatment for urinary tract infections is a round of antibiotics. The problem is, antibiotics kill both the good and bad bacteria in your gut, which leads to other health problems. The good news is that D-Mannose can prevent UTIs before they take hold. What is D-Mannose? It is a simple sugar structurally related to glucose, that is found in many fruits, including peaches, apples, oranges, cranberries, and blueberries. It is also produced in your body. D-mannose is considered a safe and natural nutritional food supplement. Since it isn't metabolized, it doesn't interfere with blood sugar regulation, and is therefore safe for diabetics. Here’s the incredible part. According to researchers at the Washington University (WU) School of Medicine in St. Louis, most UTIs start when Escherichia coli ( E. coli )—a microorganism that lives in the digestive tract and is found in the anal area—invade the bladder and penetrate a protective coating of the superficial cells that line the bladder. In most cases, urine flow washes out bacteria from the bladder. But the cell wall of E. coli bacteria has tiny finger-like projections that contain complex molecules called lectins on their surface. These lectins are cellular glue that binds the bacteria to the bladder wall so they cannot be easily rinsed out by urination. 1 -Sponsored Ads- Do You Have Health Questions? Solutions Health Advisor Has Health Answers! Try It Now For FREE! Well, the chemical structure of D-Mannose causes it to stick to E. coli bacteria, maybe even more tenaciously than E.coli adheres to human cells. Although the mechanism of how it works is complicated, theoretically, if enough D-mannose is present in the urine, it binds to the bacteria and prevents them from attaching to the urinary tract lining. 2 3 D-mannose has been shown to reduce bacteria in rats in a dose dependent manner. In fact, D-mannose was found to significantly reduce bacteria in one day. 4 Normal urination, therefore, with a sufficient level of D-mannose present, becomes a simple and effective treatment for treating and preventing UTIs. E. coli cells coated by D-mannose in the urine become unglued and get flushed right out of the body. And the beauty about D-mannose is that you can take it year-round without any side effects. You don’t have to wait until symptoms appear. Symptoms of a UTI 6 Frequent urge to urinate Incontinence Painful, burning feeling in the area of the bladder or urethra during urination Fatigue, lethargy Women feel an uncomfortable pressure above the pubic bone. Some men experience a fullness in the rectum. Despite the urge to urinate, only a small amount of urine is passed Milky, cloudy or reddish urine Foul-smelling urine A fever, which may mean that the infection has reached the kidneys Pain in the back or side below the ribs Nausea and/or vomiting How is D-mannose different from cranberry extract? Although D-mannose is found in cranberries, cranberries don’t contain enough of the sugar to have the same effect. At the same time, cranberry extract contains proanthocyanidins that also prevent E. coli from adhering to the urethra and bladder. 5 Cranberry extract also has a potent immune-stimulating effect. The two, when taken together, produce a beneficial synergistic effect on the urinary tract system. An estimated 34 percent of adults aged 20 or older (62.7 million) self-reported having had at least one occurrence of a urinary tract infection or cystitis. How does E. coli invade the bladder in the first place? Almost everyone is familiar with the horror stories that emerged several years ago when several children died from apple juice that was contaminated with E. coli . It’s true that you can get a very bad case of food poisoning from E. coli contamination—which is why you see signs in restaurant and grocery restrooms demanding all food workers to wash their hands—but with the exception of a few, rare dangerous forms, E. coli is a healthy part of our normal bowel bacteria. Page 1 of 2 pages 1 2 > Editor's Note: The natural health solutions described in this article are available through many on-line retailers including those listed below. By clicking these links you help support the important alternative health research we provide. Visit www.amazon.com – a great way to find competitive deals on supplements offered by many different manufacturers. Visit www.hfn-usa.com – when commitment to quality and freshness is important, this factory direct solution is preferred by many of our readers. This article is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Always consult with a physician before embarking on a dietary supplement program. References Anderson, G. et al. Intracellular Bacterial Biofilm-Like Pods in Urinary Tract Infections. Science Vol 301 4, July 2003. Abstract ↑ Bouckaert J, et. al. Receptor binding studies disclose a novel class of high-affinity inhibitors of the Escherichia coli FimH adhesin. Mol Microbiol. 2005 Jan;55(2):441-55. Abstract ↑ Ofek I, Goldhar J. Eshdat Y, Sharon N. The importance of mannose specific adhesins (lectins) in infections caused by Escherichia coli. Scand J Infect Dis Suppl 1982;33:61-7. Abstract ↑ Michaels EK, Chmiel JS, Plotkin BJ, Schaeffer AJ.Effect of D-mannose and D-glucose on Escherichia coli bacteriuria in rats. Urol Res 1983;11:97–102. Abstract ↑ Azfriri D, et al. Inhibitory activity of cranberry juice on adherence of type 1 and type P fimbriated Escherichia coli to eucaryotic cells. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 1989;33:92-8. Abstract ↑ National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse. “Urinary Tract Infections in Adults.” Abstract ↑ Articles of Interest from Smart Publications Health & Wellness Update Natural Solutions for Overative Bladder Syndrome It Might Be Time to Add a  Cranberry Extract Supplement to Your Diet! Try Cranberry Extract  To Prevent Bladder Infections, Tooth Decay and Cancer Cell Growth Health Topics A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) Adrenal Fatigue Allergies Alpha Carotene Alpha Lipoic Acid Alzheimer's Disease Amino Acids Andrographis Paniculata Anti-Aging Antioxidants Anxiety Apple Extract Arginine Arginine Pyroglutamate Arthritis and Joint Health Artichoke Leaf Extract Ashwaghanda Aspergillus Astaxanthin Astragalus Subscribe to Smart Publications Health & Wellness  E-newsletter to receive e-alerts about nutritional Science. Most Popular Articles L-Arginine, the Prosexual Nutrient with Numerous Health Benefits Nattokinase: Powerful Enzyme Prevents Heart Attack and Stroke Nattokinase—The Natural Blood Thinner Protect Your Chromosome Telomeres Naturally by Encouraging Telomerase Production Oral Chelation—The Strongest Natural Treatment for Your Heart, Arteries, Memory, and More—Has Just Become Even More Effective Latest Blog Post February 15 | John Morgenthaler Bio-Identical Hormone Replacement with Jonathan V. Wright Leading to Dramatic Hearing Improvement See more blog entries » Who We Are Smart Publications™ Clarifies the Complex World of Nutrition Science. The editors and researchers at Smart Publications review and analyze thousands of scientific studies per year succinctly capturing and summarizing the results of these studies for website updates, and a monthly newsletter named Smart Publications Health & Wellness Update. More about us» P.O. Box 4667 Petaluma, CA 94955 phone 800-976-2763 Physician Disclaimer Advertise with Smart Publications Copyright Statement Sitemap Contact Smart Publications Health Topics 5-HTP 7-Keto Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) Adrenal Fatigue Allergies Alpha Carotene Alpha Lipoic Acid Alzheimer's Disease Amino Acids Andrographis Paniculata Anti-Aging Antioxidants Anxiety Apple Extract Arginine Arginine Pyroglutamate Arthritis and Joint Health Artichoke Leaf Extract Ashwaghanda Aspergillus Astaxanthin Astragalus Bacopa monniera Bamboo Extract Banaba Beauty From Inside Out Berberine Beta Carotene Black Cohosh Blood Pressure and Hypertension Bone Health and Osteoporosis Boswellin Brain Health and Memory Support Calcium Citrate Calcium Disodium EDTA Cancer Cardiovascular Health Carnosine Centella Asiatica Chelation Cholesterol Choline Chromium Nicotinate Cinnamon Extract Citrulline Coccinia Indica Coenzyme Q-10 Copper Cranberry Curcumin Extract Cysteine D-Ribose Daidzein Depression Devil’s Claw Detoxification Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) DHA Di-indolylmethane Diabetes and Blood Sugar Digestive Health Diindolylmethane (DIM) Dimethylaminoethanol (DMAE) Dong Quai Echinacea Eclipta Alba Egg Shell Calcium Elderberry Eleutherosides Emblica Essential Fatty Acids Energy EDTA Eurycoma Longifolia Evodia Extract Eye Health Ferulic Acid Fish Oils GABA Gamma Tocopherol Garlic Ginger Extract Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Glucosamine Glutathione Goji Berry Gotu Kola GPC Choline Grape Seed Extract Green Coffee Bean Green Tea Gymnema Sylvestre Health Commentaries Health Questionnaires Heart Attacks Heart Health Herbs Hormone Support Huperzine Immune System Support Inflammation Joint Pain Kohki Tea L-Arginine L-Citrulline L-Cysteine L-Theanine L-Tyrosine Licorice Extract Life Extension Lipoic Acid Liver Support Longevity and Anti-Aging Lutein Luteolin Lycium Berry Lycopene Lysine Magnesium Magnolia Malic Acid Mastic Gum Medium-Chain Triglycerides Melatonin Memory Menopause Menaquinone-7 Men's Health Mental Health Metabolic Syndrome Minerals Mixed Tocopherols Multi-Vitamins Myricetin N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC) N-Acetyl-carnosine Naringenin Nattokinase Nettle Notoginseng Nutrition Olive Leaf Oolong Tea Omega-3 Fatty Acids OKG Ornithine Oral Chelation Oral Health - Teeth and Gums Osteoporosis Overall Health Pain Relief Parkinson's Disease Passionflower Peony Persimmon Phenylalanine Pheromones Phosphatidylserine Phytosterol Pine Bark Policosanol Pomegranate Pregnenolone Probiotics Prostate Health Pueraria Mirifica Pumpkin Pygeum Africanum R-Lipoic Acid Red Wine Resveratrol Rhodiola Rosea Rosemary Salacia Reticulata Salvia Miltiorrhiza Schisandra Berry Selenium Sexual Health Silymarin Skin, Hair and Nails Sleep Soy Phytosterol St. John's Wort Stinging Nettle Stress Strontium Citrate Suntheanine Taurine Terminalia Chebula The Common Cold Turmeric Root Tyrosine Uridine Urinary Tract Health Urtica Dioica Root Varicose Veins Vinpocetine Vision Health Vitamin B Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Vitamins Vitex Weight Management White Peony Winthanolides Women's Health Xylitol Yohimbe Zeaxanthin Zinc ©2012  Smart Publications, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy RSS Feed Vi