Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Electrolyte Tablets | $AVE | 3¢ | Medications & Tablets | First-Aid-Product.com View Cart Sales & Specials Customer Service My Account Español Shop By Category First Aid Kits First Aid Cabinets & Stations OSHA SmartCompliance Disaster & Survival Outdoor First Aid Bandages Bloodborne / Airborne Pathogens Burn Care CPR Products CPR Training Manikins Automated External Defibrillators Nursing & Medical Education Medications & Tablets Bandage Wraps & Tapes Unitized First Aid Kit Refills Antiseptics & Ointments Hot & Cold Packs Hearing Protection Eye Care Miscellaneous First Aid Safety Training & Regulations Live Safety Training Shop our $ALE! Shop by Brand Lowest Price Guarantee™ Same Day Shipping on most first aid items 888-228-6694 Order By Phone First Aid Kits First Aid Supply First Aid Refills OSHA Compliance Disaster CPR & AED Fundraising Business Custom Specials! Site Map Help Safety Training Home > Business / Industrial First Aid > Medications & Tablets > Electrolyte Tablets Electrolytes Help to Prevent Muscle Cramps and Heat Prostration due to Excessive Perspiration. Electrolyte Tablets are available in convenient two packs. Electrolyte Tablets - 100 per box ITEM / SKU: H454 / H-454 Electrolyte tablets help minimize fatigue and prevent muscle cramps and heat prostration due to excessive perspiration. Active ingredients: potassium chloride 40 mg, calcium phosphate 10 mg, and magnesium carbonate 9 mg. Electrolyte Tablets - 250 per box ITEM / SKU: 2799250 / I455 / I-455 Electrolyte tablets help minimize fatigue and prevent muscle cramps and heat prostration due to excessive perspiration. Active ingredients: potassium chloride 40 mg, calcium carbonate 10.64 mg, and magnesium oxide 12 mg. Electrolyte Tablets - 500 per box ITEM / SKU: 2799500 / J456 / J-456 Electrolyte tablets help minimize fatigue and prevent muscle cramps and heat prostration due to excessive perspiration. Active ingredients: potassium chloride 40 mg, calcium phosphate 10 mg, and magnesium carbonate 9 mg. Key Chain Pill / Vitamin / Medicine Carrier - Orange ITEM / SKU: PRE-193/O Ever need an Aspirin or Ibuprofen? Wonder where to keep them? Our single dose packets fit well in the pocket carrier. Great for all your Medications, Supplements, etc. Our handy keychain pill carrier has a tight velcro closure to assure your meds don't drop out. Attach   to your keys and keep handy in your purse or wallet - you'll always   know where to find it (just like your keys you never misplace!) Medications & Tablets Antacid (sugar free) Aspirin Back Pain Reliever Cherry Cough Drops Cold & Cough Electrolyte Extra Strength Pain Reliever Feminine Relief Ibuprofen Motion Sickness Name Brand Medications Extra Strength Non-Aspirin Non-Aspirin Sore Throat Lozenges Unitized Medications & Tablets Customer Service Contact Us Shipping & Return Policies Help Custom Labeling First Aid Catalog First Aid Order Form Free Shipping Offer Comments or Questions Easy Ordering Order Online Order by Phone Order by Mail Order by Fax Website First Aid Home Page Kit Buyer's Guide First Aid Guide Links First Aid Order Form Free Shipping Offer Comments or Questions Sitemap Social Media Facebook Twitter Add This Google +1 Categories First Aid Kits First Aid Cabinets & Stations OSHA SmartCompliance Disaster & Survival Outdoor First Aid Bandages Bloodborne / Airborne Pathogens Burn Care CPR Products CPR Training Manikins Automated External Defibrillators Nursing & Medical Education Medications & Tablets Bandage Wraps & Tapes Unitized First Aid Kit Refills Antiseptics & Ointments Hot & Cold Packs Hearing Protection Eye Care Miscellaneous First Aid Safety Training & Regulations Live Safety Training Shop by Manufacturer / Brand Shop by First Aid, CPR &  Safety brand EVERY FIRST AID PRODUCT WE CARRY IS LATEX FREE (unless otherwise noted) 888-228-6694 CALL US TOLL FREE! Looking for a special deal on Electrolytes? Electrolyte tablets in convenient packets Wholesale, Discount, Online! Whether you spell it eletrolite or electrolyte, our electrolyte tabs come in many sizes and quantities...great for hiking, sports, medical needs, and more! We are your source for first aid and safety kits, soft first aid bags, all purpose first aid kits, and general first aid and cpr supplies - Wholesale to the Public Manufacturer Direct Safety Product Sales since 1993 Copyright © 2001 - First-Aid-Product.com, a division of Express Companies, Inc. , & a Member of the Safety.com family of Safety Providers - all rights reserved Follow @FirstAidProduct F-A-P News Product Update: Water Preservative Additive - Now comes in a 2oz bottle Product Update: New Images for Survival Kits KKRT, KKG, and KKBX NEW Lower Shipping Fees! Applies to Ground and Express! Read More Product Update: FAE-6011 now contains 2 ½ oz. twist top bottles of eye wash Product Update: Updated content list for FA-504 Professional Grade First Responder Kit HOT NEW Look for Me4Kidz Kids First Aid Kits electrolyte - Definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary elec·tro·lyte  -   Pronunciation: \i-lek-trə-līt\     Function:noun     Date:1834 1: a nonmetallic electric conductor in which current is carried by the movement of ions2 a: a substance that when dissolved in a suitable solvent or when fused becomes an ionic conductor b: any of the ions (as of sodium or calcium) that in biological fluid regulate or affect most metabolic processes (as the flow of nutrients into and waste products out of cells) Electrolyte Information From Wikipedia An electrolyte is any substance containing free ions that behaves as an electrically conductive medium. Because they generally consist of ions in solution, electrolytes are also known as ionic solutions, but molten electrolytes and solid electrolytes are also possible. They are sometimes referred to in abbreviated jargon as lytes. Principles Electrolytes commonly exist as solutions of acids, bases or salts. Furthermore, some gases may act as electrolytes under conditions of high temperature or low pressure. Electrolyte solutions can also result from the dissolution of some biological (e.g. DNA, polypeptides) and synthetic polymers (e.g. polystyrene sulfonate), termed polyelectrolytes, which contain multiple charged moieties. Electrolyte solutions are normally formed when a salt is placed into a solvent such as water and the individual components dissociate due to the thermodynamic interactions between solvent and solute molecules, in a process called solvation. For example, when table salt, NaCl, is placed in water, the following occurs: NaCl(s) → Na+ + Cl− In simple terms, the electrolyte is a material that dissolves in water to give a solution that conducts an electric current. An electrolyte in a solution may be described as concentrated if it has a high concentration of ions, or dilute if it has a low concentration. If a high proportion of the solute dissociates to form free ions, the electrolyte is strong; if most of the solute does not dissociate, the electrolyte is weak. The properties of electrolytes may be exploited using electrolysis to extract constituent elements and compounds contained within the solution. Physiological importance In physiology, the primary ions of electrolytes are sodium (Na+), potassium (K+), calcium (Ca2+), magnesium (Mg2+), chloride (Cl-), phosphate (PO43-), and hydrogen carbonate (HCO3-). The electric charge symbols of plus (+) and minus (-) indicate that the substance in question is ionic in nature and has an imbalanced distribution of electrons. This is the result of chemical dissociation. All higher lifeforms require a subtle and complex electrolyte balance between the intracellular and extracellular milieu. In particular, the maintenance of precise osmotic gradients of electrolytes is important. Such gradients affect and regulate the hydration of the body, blood pH, and are critical for nerve and muscle function. Various mechanisms have evolved in living species that keep the concentrations of different electrolytes under tight control. Both muscle tissue and neurons are considered electric tissues of the body. Muscles and neurons are activated by electrolyte activity between the extracellular fluid or interstitial fluid, and intracellular fluid. Electrolytes may enter or leave the cell membrane through specialized protein structures embedded in the plasma membrane called ion channels. For example, muscle contraction is dependent upon the presence of calcium (Ca2+), sodium (Na+), and potassium (K+). Without sufficient levels of these key electrolytes, muscle weakness or severe muscle contractions may occur. Electrolyte balance is maintained by oral, or in emergencies, intravenous (IV) intake of electrolyte-containing substances, and is regulated by hormones, generally with the kidneys flushing out excess levels. In humans, electrolyte homeostasis is regulated by hormones such as antidiuretic hormone, aldosterone and parathyroid hormone. Serious electrolyte disturbances, such as dehydration and overhydration, may lead to cardiac and neurological complications and, unless they are rapidly resolved, will result in a medical emergency. Measurement Measurement of electrolytes is a commonly performed diagnostic procedure, performed via blood testing with ion selective electrodes or urinalysis by medical technologists. The interpretation of these values is somewhat meaningless without analysis of the clinical history and is often impossible without parallel measurement of renal function. Electrolytes measured most often are sodium and potassium. Chloride levels are rarely measured except for arterial blood gas interpretation since they are inherently linked to sodium levels. One important test conducted on urine is the specific gravity test to determine the occurrence of electrolyte imbalance. Sports drinks Electrolytes are commonly found in sports drinks. In oral rehydration therapy, electrolyte drinks containing sodium and potassium salts replenish the body's water and electrolyte levels after dehydration caused by exercise, diaphoresis, diarrhea, vomiting or starvation. These drinks are, however, only necessary after truly Herculean efforts, such as marathons and biathlons, have been performed. People exercising in a normal way (for example cycling for one hour) can also drink pure water. It is unnecessary to replace losses of sodium, potassium and other electrolytes during exercise since it is unlikely that a significant depletion the body's stores of these minerals will occur during normal training. However, in extreme exercising conditions over 5 or 6 hours (an Ironman or ultramarathon, for example) the consumption of a complex sports drink with electrolytes is recommended. Athletes who do not consume electrolytes under these conditions risk overhydration (or hyponatremia). [1] Because sports drinks typically contain very high levels of sugar, they are not recommended for regular use by children. Water is considered the only essential beverage for children during exercise. Sports drinks are also not appropriate for replacing the fluid lost during diarrhea. Medicinal rehydration sachets and drinks are available to replace the key electrolyte ions lost. Dentists recommend that regular consumers of sports drinks observe precautions against tooth decay. Electrolyte and sports drinks can be home-made by using the correct proportions of sugar, salt and water. [2] Electrochemistry Main article: electrolysis When electrodes are placed in an electrolyte and a voltage is applied, the electrolyte will conduct electricity. Lone electrons normally cannot pass through the electrolyte; instead, a chemical reaction occurs at the cathode consuming electrons from the cathode, and another reaction occurs at the anode producing electrons to be taken up by the anode. As a result, a negative charge cloud develops in the electrolyte around the cathode, and a positive charge develops around the anode. The ions in the electrolyte move to neutralize these charges so that the reactions can continue and the electrons can keep flowing. For example, in a solution of ordinary salt (sodium chloride, NaCl) in water, the cathode reaction will be 2H2O + 2e− → 2OH− + H2 and hydrogen gas will bubble up; the anode reaction is 2H2O → O2 + 4H+ + 4e− and oxygen gas will be liberated. The positively charged sodium ions Na+ will move towards the cathode neutralizing the negative charge of OH− there, and the negatively charged chlorine ions Cl− will move towards the anode neutralizing the positive charge of H+ there. Without the ions from the electrolyte, the charges around the electrode would slow down continued electron flow; diffusion of H+ and OH− through water to the other electrode takes longer than movement of the much more prevalent salt ions. In other systems, the electrode reactions can involve the metals of the electrodes as well as the ions of the electrolyte. Electrolytic conductors are used in electronic devices where the chemical reaction at a metal/electrolyte interface yields useful effects. In batteries, two metals with different electron affinities are used as electrodes; electrons flow from one electrode to the other outside of the battery, while inside the battery the circuit is closed by the electrolyte's ions. Here the electrode reactions slowly use up the chemical energy stored in the electrolyte. In some fuel cells, a solid electrolyte or proton conductor connects the plates electrically while keeping the hydrogen and oxygen fuel gases separated. In electroplating tanks, the electrolyte simultaneously deposits metal onto the object to be plated, and electrically connects that object in the circuit. In operation-hours gauges, two thin columns of mercury are separated by a small electrolyte-filled gap, and, as charge is passed through the device, the metal dissolves on one side and plates out on the other, causing the visible gap to slowly move along. In electrolytic capacitors the chemical effect is used to produce an extremely thin 'dielectric' or insulating coating, while the electrolyte layer behaves as one capacitor plate. In some hygrometers the humidity of air is sensed by measuring the conductivity of a nearly dry electrolyte. Hot, softened glass is an electrolytic conductor, and some glass manufacturers 