
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 20:34:57 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » Acupuncture for Low Back Pain Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s Acupuncture for Low Back Pain February 26th, 2009 Many individuals experience back pain at some point that can interfere with routine daily activities. Following headache, back pain is the second most common neurological condition. Although low back pain often resolves within a few days, some cases may develop into a chronic condition. Lasting from a few days to less than a month, acute low back pain is often the result of injury to the spinal bones and tissues such as that caused by a car accident, lifting something too heavy, overstretching, or other stress. Chronic low back pain may be due to degenerative diseases such as arthritis, osteoporosis, joint and disc irritation, spinal congenital abnormalities, and viral infections. Both acute and chronic low back pain can be exacerbated by lifestyle factors such as obesity and poor nutrition, stress, smoking, general ill health, and inappropriate posture. Most cases of low back pain resolve with rest and use of analgesics to reduce inflammation. Mild to moderate low back pain can also benefit form exercises which strengthen back and abdominal muscles. More severe cases of low back pain may be treated with a combination of analgesics, topical counter-irritants and opioids to reduce the pain, swelling and inflammation. When low back pain does not respond to conventional therapies, acupuncture may be an option to consider. Acupuncture triggers the release of peptides, the body’s naturally occurring painkilling molecules. Acupuncture also strengthens qi, or vital energy flow. Previous studies have produced results indicating the effectiveness of acupuncture in comparison to more conventional therapies in the treatment of low back pain. Individuals experiencing low back pain who choose acupuncture as a therapy option often report reduced pain, improvements in functional ability and an enhanced quality of life. Acupuncture can be used as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of low back pain or may be a primary therapy option. Often, a treatment plan of 10 30-minute sessions over a period of six weeks can treat low back pain more effectively than a conventional therapy plan of treatment which includes nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and analgesics. For individuals who experience low back pain, acupuncture can produce long-lasting results in pain reduction and improvements in functional ability. Acupuncture also has virtually none of the adverse side effects typically associated with allopathic medications. Acupuncture has become an accepted treatment for low back pain in the United States, Europe and Asia. For more information about acupuncture for the treatment of low back pain call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician, at (305) 595-9500. Acupuncture | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr