
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 08:41:28 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://brandonflchiropractor.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Blog | Brandon Chiropractor - Part 5 – page 5 Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson DABCN, Chiropractic Neurologist: Phone: (813) 681-4418 Home New Patient FAQ’s New Patient Forms Conditions Treated Back Pain Disc Herniation Sciatica Scoliosis Neck Pain Pinched Nerve Carpal Tunnel Headaches Auto Injury Whiplash Injury Whiplash Compensation Contact Meet Dr. Wilson Blog Pages Home New Patient FAQ’s New Patient Forms Conditions Treated Back Pain Disc Herniation Sciatica Scoliosis Neck Pain Pinched Nerve Carpal Tunnel Headaches Auto Injury Whiplash Injury Whiplash Compensation Contact Meet Dr. Wilson Blog Categories Auto Injury Back Pain Conditions Helped by Chiropractic Headaches Insurance FAQ's Neck Pain New Patient FAQ's Uncategorized Your First Visit Back Pain Relief using Traction Therapy Dr. Steve Wilson Brandon Chiropractor Back Pain Relief using Traction Therapy Dr. Steve Wilson Brandon Chiropractor explains Back pain commonly results from pressure on the joints, disc, or nerves of the low back. It just stands to make sense if compression or pressure is one of the major causes of back pain, relieving that pressure would relieve back pain . This is exactly why traction therapy can be very successful in the treatment of back pain. Traction for back pain therapy is a medical device in which the patient is gently strapped into a harness. The pelvis in one harness and the rib cage in another. The patient lays face up on a therapy table. The traction therapy gently separates or pulls apart. There is just enough traction force to relieve joint, disc, or spinal nerve related pressure. In doing so helping to relieve the back pain . If your suffering from back pain and live in the Brandon FL area, give our office a call. Traction may just be the solution to your back pain relief. Neck Pain Relief Therapy with Dr. Wilson Brandon Chiropractor Neck Pain Relief Therapy with Dr. Wilson Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson Chiropractic Neurologist Demonstrates Neck Rehabilitation Neck rehabilitation after a car injury helps to prevent permanent ongoing neck pain . Neck rehabilitation involves the last phase of neck therapy. The objective at this stage of the therapy program is to increase the range of motion and strength in the neck back to normal or as much as the body will allow. If the neck pain and injury are not restored to there normal strength and range of motion there stands a chance of a permanent injury or continual recurrence of neck pain. There are several methods to aid in the restoration of an injured neck. The primary focus would be to not cause any irritation while the neck rehabilitation progresses. If you have suffered a neck injury or are having neck pain and live in the Brandon FL area, give our office a call. We have several neck pain relief therapy’s and treatments to get you back to normal. Brandon Chiropractor Explains Headache Pain Brandon Chiropractor Explains Headache Pain Dr. Steve Wilson Chiropractic Neurologist explains the common cause of headache pain Headache pain is usually the by product of another problem. It is important to correctly diagnose the cause of headache pain . The most common causes of headache pain are: Upper neck joint pressure Muscle tension Vascular or migraine Sinus The treatment for your headache pain would depend on the diagnosis and the origin of the pain. At our chiropractic center we pay special attention to the cause of headache pain to ensure the proper therapy. If your suffering from headache pain and live in the Brandon FL area give our office a call, were here to help. Sciatica Back Pain Relief Brandon Chiropractor Sciatica Back Pain Relief Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson Brandon Chiropractic Physician Explains Sciatic Pain Relief Sciatic back pain results when the sciatic nerve is irritated or inflamed. The inflammation can be the result of many factors. The most common factors of sciatic back and leg pain are from nerve pressure due to muscles or nerve pressure due to a possible disc bulge in the lower back. The first objective would be to decrease the pain and inflammation. We have several therapys to reduce sciatic pain. Therpy’s such as: Electronic nerve and muscle stimulation Ultrasound therapy Cold laser therapy The therapy that is right for your would depend on what is causing your sciatic back and leg pain . If you live in the Brandon FL area and are suffering from sciatic leg and back pain give our office a call to start your pain relief. Headache Relief with Interferential Current Therapy Brandon Chiropractor Headache Relief with Interferential Current Therapy Brandon Chiropractor Mild Electric Current Helps Block Headache Pain Interferential current is a mild form of electric therapy which helps block the pain signal from most forms of headache pain . Small pads are placed just at the base of the skull and a mild form of electrical current is run through the pads. This current wave form is a unique electronic wave form that helps to block certain types of pain signals. Block the pain signal can result in: Decrease in headache pain Decrease in muscle tension Increased circulation and blood flow If your suffering from headache pain interferential current may just be the headache therapy to help. Give our office a call and we’ll be glad to see if we can help your headache pain. Traction Headache Relief Therapy Brandon Chiropractor Headache Relief with Traction Brandon Chiropractor Mild Traction can Relieve Headache Pain If your headaches are the result of joint pressure or nerve pressure in the upper neck traction therapy can frequently help relieve headache pain . By mildly tractioning the bones in the upper part of the neck we can give relieve to the nerves and joints at the base of the skull. When there is a slight seperation the joint pressure is relieved as well as the nerve pressure. Traction is very comfortable and helps relieve headache pain, muscle tension and the pain and stiffness that can sometimes creap up around the neck. If your suffering from headache pain, our traction therapy may be just what the doctor ordered. Give our office a call, let us help relieve your headache pain with traction therapy. Car Injury Mistake Not Hire Attorney Brandon Chiropractor Car Injury Mistake Not Hire Attorney Brandon Chiropractor A common question I get is should I hire a car injury attorney Frequently patients who have been involved in a car accident injury will ask me if I think they should hire an attorney. My answer is almost always a resounding YES. The reason for the yes is their are many complicated car insurance laws and they change regularly. It is a specialtyof it’s own just because of the complexity of the law. So I recommend to my patients to hire a competent car injury attorney to protect their legal rights. Some patients feel the financial cut the car injury attorney will take may not be worth the expense. In my opinion this is not the case. In fact most cases settle for a larger amount with an attorney than without one. So save yourself the headache of trying to learn car injury law on the run. Hire a car injury attorney. Trial Certified Car Injury Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson Trial Certified Car Injury Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson Use a Certified Trial Chiropractor for your Car Injury Treatment Dr. Steve Wilson is a trial certified chiropractic neurologist in Brandon FL. When picking a health care provider one of the considerations is the legal aspect of your health care claim. By using a trial certified chiropractor for your car accident injury case you can be sure they are experienced and willing to testify on your behalf if your case goes to court. Benefits of trial certified chiropractor: Experience Willingness to go to court on your behalf Education of the car accident injury legal system If you have been in a car accident injury give Dr. Steve Wilson a call. He is willing to testify on your behalf in court if needed. Cause of Neck Pain Brandon Chiropractor Cause of Neck Pain Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson demonstrates the caused of neck pain Neck pain typically is the result of one of three causes: Disc pressure Joint pressure Nerve pressure If any one of these or all three are affected you will suffer neck pain . Therefore the goal is to reduce or eliminate the cause which will relive your neck pain. If you live in the Brandon FL area and are suffering from neck pain, give us a call, we believe we can help your pain in the neck . Whiplash Injury Therapy “Ultrasound” Brandon Chiropractor Whiplash Injury Therapy “Ultrasound” Brandon Chiropractor The heating effect of ultrasound helps heal whiplash injury Ultrasound therapy for whiplash injury is a form of deep penetrating heat into the muscle of the neck. Some of the benefits of ultrasound for whiplash injury relief are: Increased circulation Decrease muscle spasm Relaxing soothing effect Speedy healing If you have been in a car accident injury and have suffered from whiplash injury ultrasound may be the therapy for you. If you live in the Brandon FL area give our office a call. Were glad to help relieve your whiplash neck pain . Page 5 of 13 « First ... « 3 4 5 6 7 » ... Last » Popular Posts Home : Brandon Chiropractor: 
Dr. Steve Wilson, Chiropractic ... 1137  view(s) Back Pain : 6 Natural Therapy's to Relieve Back Pain

by Dr. Stev... 190  view(s) Neck Pain : 6 Natural Therapy's to Relieve Neck Pain

by Dr. Stev... 178  view(s) Headaches : 5 Natural Therapy's to Relieve Headaches 
by Dr. Stev... 153  view(s) Auto Injury : Brandon Chiropractor: Auto Injury Help and Information... 121  view(s) Meet Dr. Wilson : Brandon Chiropractor 
Dr. Steve Wilson DABCN Board Cer... 115  view(s) Contact : Brandon Chiropractor  Dr. Steve Wilson, Board Certified... 110  view(s) Water Bed Massage for Back and Neck Pain by Brandon Chiropractor 33511 : Water Bed Massage for Back and Neck Pain by Brandon Chi... 103  view(s) Conditions Treated : Brandon Chiropractor Dr. Steve Wilson DABCN
Additional... 98  view(s) New Patient FAQ’s : Brandon Chiropractor
Dr. Steve Wilson Answers Patients... 81  view(s) Recent Posts Progressive Insurance Chiropractic Benefits at Chiropractor in Brandon Florida Meta Log in Entries RSS 