Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Eclub Back 
  to Eclub Navigator Archives CTM 
        main page Latest 
        News Contact 
        Us THEY SAID THAT? "The (MSKCC) Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
        Center report on amygdalin, or Laetrile(:) It is incomplete because at 
        least half a dozen experiments with amygdalin performed at the (MSKCC) 
        between 1972 and 1976 have been omitted from the report. (These,) the 
        positive experiments (showing effectivity against cancer) with amygdalin, 
        carried out by veteran researcher Kanematsu Suguira appear to be valid 
        and are not successfully challenged by the report. (In contrast,) there 
        are numerous errors in many of these (reported) experiments which allegedly 
        prove amygdalin's ineffectiveness as a palliative or cure for cancer." - Second Opinion, Special Report: Laetrile at Sloan Kettering, 1977, 
        published January 1978. "The cyano group of vitamin B-12 (cyano-cobal-amin) 
        is more labile and potentially more harmful than the cyano group found 
        in Laetrile. Yet we know how safe and essential vitamin B-12 is." - Dr. R.A. Passwater, testimony, FDA docket # 77N-0048. On the very day that the NCI announced Laetrile's alleged 
        worthlessness..., West Virginia became the 24th state to allow the use 
        of Laetrile ...In signing the bill into law, Gov. Jay Rockefeller said 
        the study, 'made no difference at all.' - National Health Federation, 
        July, 1981. "...In July 1974 About 15 agents (of Cal. Food 
        and Drug) arrested me on the charge of selling Laetrile and other substances 
        in the diagnosis, cure and alleviation of cancer. In Citrus Municipal 
        Court, West Covina, on Feb 3, 1975, Judge Sam Cianchetti declared this 
        statute unconstitutional. On Oct. 1974, I received a phone call from ...police 
        at 1 (AM, Saturday morning) and he told me that my office was broken into. 
        I went down to my office ...and 2 agents arrest(ed) me on a felony charge 
        - conspiracy ...The law states that before you are even arrested, they 
        must give you a hearing (Cal. Health Code 1707.4) (Another) judge denied 
        this motion for a ...hearing and he gave no reason." - Dr. 
        James Privitera; Roswell Park Memorial Institute,; Scripps Clinic; "The 
        Nutritional Battle." "I had to stand three expensive trials in California 
        courts, where in all three actions against me, the charges were dismissed. 
        Then I had to stand an even longer and more expensive trial in Federal 
        Court in San Diego, where I was convicted of 'conspiring to smuggle Laetrile' 
        and was fined $30,000. ... Cal. then revoked my license." - John 
        Richardson, MD. "The ...Times ...headlined the Assistant US 
        Attorney ...grand jury investigation of myself, six months before the 
        grand jury was even selected. ...Soon after Bantam printed 200,000 copies 
        of our book, ...Times bought the serial rights to it. ...After sitting 
        on the serial rights for a suitable period, the ...Times ...unctuously 
        begged Bantam to be released from their gentlemen's agreement, and the 
        serial market had been destroyed. ...Most libraries will not accept a 
        book that has not been reviewed by the ...Times or its affiliate..." - John Richardson, MD, Richardson Newsletter, 1979. "We don't have any pesticides showing up in 
        the food chain anymore." - NCI Director and ACS vice president, 
        Dr. Frank Rauscher. "The data provided by the McNaughton Foundation 
        certainly indicates some activity (of Laetrile) in animal tumor systems." - Dr. Carl Baker, Director, NCI 1970-1972. "When Dr. Manner reported on the total remission 
        of breast cancer in lab animals (Using 'Laetrile in conjunction with vitamins 
        and enzymes')..., ACS President, Ben Byrd, criticised (him) for making 
        his announcement in public, and said such announcements should be made 
        only in a proper scientific forum." "But, as all scientists know, there is a time 
        lag of 12 to 18 months between the time a manuscript is submitted and 
        the time it is published in a scientific journal." "...Delay," says Dr. Manner, "is a luxury which 
        people with right-now cancers cannot afford." - Paul Harvey, "Cancer Remission with Laetrile" , LA Times, 10-10-1977. "...The ...experts of the FDA have declared 
        Laetrile to be worthless ...quackery and fraud...These experts are the 
        professional descendants of experts ...confident that mental illness should 
        be cured by drilling holes in the skull, the better to let the demons 
        out. ...This is the Orwellian fashion in which the medical establishment 
        throws its weight around...." - James Kilpatrick, Washington 
        Star, 1976. "Dr. Helen Calvin ...spearheaded ...Indiana 
        to approve Laetrile, and then she used the Laetrile and metabolic program 
        ...until the FDA arbitrarily and illegally held up her Laetrile shipments 
        ...patients started dying ...When four of them had died, Dr. Calvin ended 
        her own life." - Arlin Brown, Cancer Victory Bulletin, Oct. 
        1978. "Dr. Anthony Verlangieri, ..Rutgers U. ..., 
        was refused funds for...reducing atherosclerosis with Vitamin C. ..Dr. 
        Jorgen Schlegel (is) combatting cancer with vitamin C at Tulane Med. ...And 
        Dr. Eli Seifter (discovered) that vitamin A (fights) cancer tumors of 
        viral origin. Yet both distinguished scientists have been refused funds. 
        ...Dr. Linus Pauling, ...two time Nobel Prize winner ..., has found it 
        impossible to get federal funds for his research in treating cancer with 
        ...vitamin C." - Jack Andersen, "Tired Blood in Federal 
        Health Research" . Rocky Mountain News, 1975. "The American Cancer Society tried to ruin my 
        research foundation." -Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, discoverer of vitamins 
        C and P, 1937 Nobel Prize ," for his discoveries in connection with 
        the biological combustion process, with special reference to Vitamin C 
        and the catalysis of fumaric acid.". "The American Cancer Society has done the American 
        public a really great disservice." - Dr. David Baltimore, 
        1975 Nobel Laureate in Medicine for, "their discoveries concerning 
        the interaction between tumor viruses and the genetic material of the 
        cell.". "...cancer ...there is no disease whose prime 
        cause is better known ...In the meantime, millions of men must die unnecessarily." - Otto Warburg, Nobel Laureate in Medicine in 1931 for his discovery 
        of the nature and mode of action of the respiratory enzyme. "But how long prevention will be avoided depends 
        on how long the prophets of unbelief will succeed in obstructing the application 
        of scientific knowledge in the cancer field. In the meantime, millions 
        must die of cancer unnecessarily." Otto Warburg. "...What kills science in this country now, 
        (is) that you must tell in advance what you will find, and what you will 
        do exactly, and what you will spend your money on. And if you knew it 
        all, then you wouldn't need to do it. ... And so you cannot have (any) 
        new discoveries." - Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, discoverer of Vitamin 
        C "This total failure to address the diet/cancer 
        relationship is most disturbing to ...those ...informed..." - Senator George McGovern. 1978 Subcommittee hearings on Nutrition . "Even though the nutrition research budget 
        has increased 21 fold in the last four years, it still remains less than 
        1% of total NCI budget, even though one half of all cancers are diet related 
        ...Does the peer review simply turn into a 'buddy' system for awarding 
        grants? " - Senator Bob Dole., 1978 Subcommittee hearings on 
        Nutrition. (Why is there frequent criticism that the cancer research 
        system is unreceptive to unorthodoxy?) "Because it's true. Not cancer 
        research, all research systems. It's a very important issue ...The entire 
        system ...tends to exclude people from the fringe who have ideas that 
        are radical departures, and we ought to pay a lot more attention to them 
        ....I try." - Dr. Vincent DeVita, Jr., Director NCI. "My ...studies on occupational cancer ...in 
        ...industries was forcefully and abruptly brought to a halt in 1952 by 
        an order of the Surgeon General ...(This followed) a protest by the Public 
        Health Service (PHS) by ....(an) industry ...alleg(ing) that my activities 
        were detrimental to their interests ...I was forbidden (by PHS) to contact, 
        thereafter, state health departments and industrial concerns on all matters 
        of occupational cancer. (I was) to discontinue all field work..." - Dr. Wilhelm C. Heuper, Chief, Environmental Cancer Section, NCI 
        (In Larry Agran, The Cancer Connection). "During three different strikes by MD's (in) 
        the mid-1970's (in Israel, Columbia, and California), death rates fell 
        between 18% and 50%..." - Peter Chowka, "The Failure 
        