Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cancer - The New Approach Back 
  to Eclub Navigator Archives CTM 
        main page Recommended 
        Reading Contact Cancer - The New Approach by Phillip Day In spite of the medical establishment's dictatorial 
        attitude towards protecting their cancer income, huge inroads into conquering 
        cancer were made at the turn of the 1900s by Professor John Beard of Edinburgh 
        University. Beard was no exception in that he received harassment for 
        what he subsequently found. But like many pioneers, he soldiered on nonetheless. 
        John Beard can justifiably be praised for being the individual who broke 
        the back of cancer's mystery and brought its demise forward by many decades. Beard was an embryologist who was one of the first 
        doctors to study embryonic stem cells, these enigmatic pre-embryonic cells 
        that reside within our body. Beard had noticed that these cells had the 
        ability to develop into the cell structure of any body part, and even 
        into a new embryo, if given the right morphogenetic, hormonal stimulus. He discovered that in pregnancy, the body uses the 
        hormone estrogen to stimulate these stem cells into rapidly multiplying 
        into a cell mass Beard called 'trophoblast', releasing quantities of human 
        chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), the hormone later to be detected with a 
        pregnancy test. Beard's thesis stated that these trophoblastic cells have 
        a job to do in pregnancy, namely to etch away part of the uterus wall 
        so that the embryo can attach itself and start to develop. Once this has 
        been achieved, the trophoblastic cells are destroyed around the 56th day 
        of pregnancy when the baby's pancreas comes online and emits its enzymes, 
        which deconstruct the outer coating of the trophoblast, allowing the immune 
        system to clear away the remainder of these cells. Beard had discovered 
        that in the event that the baby's pancreas fails, both the mother and 
        the child die of cancer. In fact, what they die from is an uncontrolled 
        and unregulated proliferation of these trophoblast cells, which now have 
        no pancreatic enzyme 'termination' agents to curtail them. CANCER AS A ROGUE HEALING 
        PROCESS Beard found that these stem cells also exist in our body for healing. 
        When we hurt ourselves, our bodies initiate an automatic healing process 
        (survival response) - we know this, and have seen it happen a thousand 
        times. But intriguingly, the healing process commences the same way as 
        with pregnancy trophoblast, namely, the hormone estrogen stimulates our 
        stem cells into producing a trophoblastic 'carpet' of cells which seals 
        off the damaged area and repairs it with cells formed into the cell structure 
        of the bodypart that is being fixed. This healing process is then terminated 
        by pancreatic enzymes upon completion of the task. In the event that we 
        have low levels of these vital pancreatic enzymes, there is no termination 
        agent for the trophoblast in our body and the trophoblast therefore continues 
        to multiply and proliferate unopposed. The result is an ever expanding 
        mass of trophoblastic cells in our body at the site specific to the original 
        area of damage. Today we call this cell mass a tumour. Beard discovered that our bodies become depleted of 
        these vital pancreatic enzymes when we eat a diet rich in animal proteins. 
        Without this protection, we become prone to developing cancer if the healing 
        processes that initiate in our bodies are not terminated upon completion 
        of their task. Beard began treating cancer patients to great effect using 
        pancreatic enzymes trypsin and chymotrypsin, as well as other vital nutrients, 
        up until his death around the beginning of World War 1. His theory, as 
        expounded in his papers, was that, by introducing pancreatic enzymes into 
        a cancer patient's body, the enzymes would continue with their job of 
        digesting the outer protein coating of the trophoblast cells, allowing 
        the body to clear away any dangerous trophoblastic proliferation. We must remember that after Beard's career, medicine 
        began treating cancer patients with Marie Curie's radium and other desperate 
        remedies, causing further trauma, and no doubt generating more trophoblast 
        as a survival response to counter the hurt being done to the body. Beard's 
        work was largely ignored until Ernst T Krebs Jr, a biochemist from Nevada, 
        came across Beard's thesis during his work with enzymes and nutrition. Krebs was studying those cultures on Earth who did 
        not suffer from cancer. He was aware that men like Albert Schweitzer and 
        explorer Roald Amundsen were coming back from remote areas of the globe 
        reporting that cancer just didn't exist among the populations they had 
        encountered. To the Labrador Eskimos, the Thlinglets, the tribes of Gabon, 
        the Vilcabambans of Ecuador, the Georgian tribes of southern Russia, the 
        Karakorum and Hunzas of eastern Pakistan and the Hopi Indians of Arizona, 
        cancer was unknown - and Krebs was keen to find out why. He discovered that these peoples differed from westernised 
        populations because they were doing one or all of the following which 
        Krebs believed resulted in their pronounced and healthy longevity: They lived in environments devoid of man-made toxins. They ate diets rich in minerals and raw whole foods. They ate the dietary compound hydrocyanic acid, 
          a staple of the nitriloside food group, which had been largely eliminated 
          from the diets of Western populations. Krebs' work on hydrocyanic acid was especially controversial, 
        even as it still is today. The biochemist found that this compound was 
        contained within the apricot seeds of the Hunzas - indeed within all the 
        seeds of the common fruits, excluding citrus, as well as other foods that 
        had largely been cut out of Western diets. The Hunzas were cracking open 
        their apricot pits and consuming the soft seed within along with the pulp 
        of the fruit. In addition, their womenfolk pressed the oil out of the 
        kernels they collected and used it for cooking and cosmetics. Krebs analysed hydrocyanic acid to discover its life-preserving 
        qualities and reported that when this compound came into contact with 
        trophoblast cells, it selectively killed them by manufacturing two poisons 
        in minute quantities - hydrogen cyanide and benzaldehyde. Krebs also discovered 
        that this reaction did not occur with healthy cells, thus preserving and 
        even nourishing healthy tissue. Research demonstrated that the hydrocyanic 
        acid compound could only be 'unlocked' by beta-glucosidase, a cellular 
        enzyme which, although present throughout the body in minute quantities, 
        was located in huge amounts at the site of trophoblast tumours. The beta-glucosidase 
        contained in the trophoblast cells appeared to 'unlock' the hydrocyanic 
        acid contained in the food to produce hydrogen cyanide and benzaldehyde 
        at the cancer site. The two poisons combined synergistically to produce 
        a super-poison many times more deadly than either substance in isolation. 
        Thus the cancer cell met its chemical death at the hands of this unique 
        compound's selective toxicity. Krebs ran toxicity studies to determine whether hydrocyanic 
        acid, or Laetrile/amygdalin/Vitamin B17, as the active principal would 
        later become known, was dangerous to the organism if ingested in abnormal 
        quantities. He reported that Vitamin B17 was harmless and chemically inert 
        until stimulated by the beta-glucosidase available within cancer cells. Later other researchers would replicate Krebs' work 
        to confirm these findings. Sheep fed the equivalent of 8-10mg of HCN (hydrogen 
        cyanide) per kilogram per day as linseed meal showed no toxic effects 
        whatsoever. Sheep weighing 66kg were intravenously administered a three-hour 
        dose of 2.7 gms of B17 yielding 300mg of HCN. New Zealand researchers 
        Coop and Blakely reported that "...at no time during the experiment 
        were even the slightest symptoms observed." A total of 568mg 
        of HCN was given to a 76kg sheep in the course of an hour. The only symptom 
        the animal showed was "a general sleepiness for an hour" . 
        Van der Walt failed to produce chronic poisoning in sheep even after administering 
        3.2mg HCN/kg daily for two years. Worden showed that repeated dosing in 
        rabbits does not produce a cumulative effect and the animal was capable 
        of eliminating excess B17 within two and a half hours. Other researchers, such as Dr Harold Manner, head of 
        biology at Loyola University, Chicago, ever mindful of the extreme flak 
        Krebs began receiving following the publication of his findings, put further 
        pieces of the cancer puzzle together. Manner began combining Beard's pancreatic 
        enzymes, trypsin and chymotrypsin, with Vitamin A emulsion and B17-Laetrile, 
        and used this protocol with a radical change of diet supplemented with 
        minerals and antioxidants such as Vitamin C and selenium to supercharge 
        the cancer patient to halt the progression of rogue trophoblast and even 
        eliminate it altogether. This procedure was later to form the basis of 
        the nutritional Metabolic Therapy we see practised in the most successful 
        cancer clinics today. The public and press began showing a marked interest 
        in this controversial research, especially in view of the fact that this 
        new approach to cancer treatment did not involve the use of toxic or radical 
        treatments that were now increasingly becoming viewed as largely useless 
        and 'ethically questionable': When President Richard Nixon was deluged with tens of thousands of petitions 
        from ordinary citizens everywhere demanding clinical trials for Laetrile, 
        these demands were forwarded to his cancer advisor, Benno Schmidt... When 
        Schmidt consulted all of his medical colleagues about Laetrile, he found 
        them vehemently opposed to it. But, interestingly enough, as he told reporters 
        later: "I couldn't get anybody to show me scientific proof that 
        the stuff didn't work." In 1973 a three-month trial at the Southern Research 
        Institute in Birmingham, Alabama, intensively researched the therapeutic 
        properties of Laetrile. The institute finally released its findings to 
        the National Cancer Institute which proceeded to announce to the public 
        that once again studies proved that B17-Laetrile had no effect whatsoever 
        in the treatment of cancer. However not all was as it appeared. When the 
        data and protocols from these experiments were subsequently studied in 
        more detail by Dr Dean Burk, one of the National Cancer Institute's founders 
        and head of its Department of Cytochemistry, inconsistencies in the trial 
        protocols began to appear. Researcher G Edward Griffin, whose controversial 
        book World Without Cancer broke the Laetrile story to the public in the 
        1970s, explains: "Every [Laetrile] study had been tarnished 
        with the same kind of scientific ineptitude, bias, and outright deception 
        as found in the 1953 MacDonald/Garland California report. Some of these 
        studies openly admitted evidence of anti-cancer effect but hastened to 
        attribute this effect to other causes. Some were toxicity studies only, 
        which means that they weren't trying to see if Laetrile was effective, 
        but merely to determine how much of it was required to kill the patient." Despite announcing to the world that Laetrile was useless, 
        the National Cancer Institute, the American Medical Association and the 
        drug cartels looked on with anger as a national grass-roots movement sprang 
        up across America as a result of the many cancer recoveries being reported 
        and attributed to Laetrile and supporting nutrition. It was the '70s and 
        people were distrustful of their government as a result of Watergate and 
        Vietnam. The Committee for Freedom-of-Choice in Cancer Therapy was formed, 
        founding several hundred chapters across America which in turn held public 
        meetings, press conferences and pressured state legislative committees 
        into calling for the 'legalisation' of Vitamin B17. The federal government eventually persuaded the cancer 
        industry to test Laetrile, which they did - without the pancreatic enzymes 
        and other supporting co-factors required to break down the cancer cell. 
        Of course the trials failed and the results - or lack of them - were subsequently 
        reported, the summary declaring that Laetrile has no anti-cancer benefit 
        whatsoever. Meanwhile, other cancer industry-appointed scientists, such 
        as Dr Kanematsu Sugiura, Dr Elizabeth Stockert and Dr Lloyd Schoen, were 
        using the correct protocols at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and achieving 
        startling results, as others would around the world in the years to come. But even these results were mis-reported, and once 
        again B17 was 'tossed under the bus' with Memorial Sloan-Kettering's incredible 
        conclusion: "These results allow no definite conclusion supporting 
        the anti-cancer activity of Laetrile." This did not stop many physicians across America and 
        later the world from implementing this therapy into their treatments of 
        cancer patients. Many of these professionals received constant harassment 
        at the hand of the medical authorities, who accused them of practising 
        quackery and treating their patients with an 'unappoved drug' which contained 
        the dangerous 'cyanide'. Gradually, through persistent and at times downright 
        paranoid propaganda, the little yellow apricot became a natural-born killer 
        in the eyes of many. Interestingly, the establishment proved dismal in 
        the consistency of its opposition, focusing on "cyanide - what 
        are you crazy?!" but failing to pillory Vitamin B12 as a 'deadly 
        agent', containing as it does the cyanide radical also (Vitamin B12 is 
        known as cyanocobalamin). Philip Binzel MD, a doctor who retrained to treat his 
        cancer patients with this nutritional therapy, foregoing the dangers of 
        toxic chemotherapy and radiation treatments, highlights in his book Alive 
        and Well the problem many doctors were having with an inherent lack of 
        knowledge on nutrition: "Most of my first patients were those who had 
        all of the surgery, radiation and chemotherapy they could tolerate and 
        their tumors were still growing. I did for these patients the best I knew 
        to do. My biggest problem at the time was understanding nutrition. 
        In four years of medical school, one year of Family Practice residency, 
        I had not had even one lecture on nutrition." [emphasis mine] Binzel's book catalogues the repeated harassment he 
        received at the hands of the Ohio State Medical Board and the Food & 
        Drug Administration over his use of Laetrile and nutritional co-factors 
        for his cancer patients. Binzel's incredible story of amazing tumour regressions 
        and eliminations amid the backdrop of draconian treatment at the hands 
        of his peers is typical of the rollercoaster ride many courageous doctors 
        underwent in order to bring the truth of wellness to their suffering patients. Even the Food & Drug Administration had its defectors. 
        June de Spain, one of its pharmacologists and toxicologists, wrote The 
        Little Cyanide Cookbook, in which she dispels the 'deadly-cyanide-in-its-natural-form' 
        myth and lays out hundreds of diets containing the essential nitriloside 
        factor. De Spain sums up her own findings on the back cover of her book: "Because of its unique molecular structure, 
        this compound releases cyanide only at the cancer site, thus destroying 
        cancer cells while nourishing non-cancer tissue. Those populations in 
        the world which eat these vitamin-rich foods simply do not get cancer 
        - and they live to be much older than those who subsist on the typical 
        modern diet. Cyanide in minute quantities and in the proper food 
        forms, instead of being poisonous, actually is an essential component 
        of normal body chemistry. Vitamin B12, for instance, contains cyanide 
        in the form of cyanocobalamin." Other doctors around the world were doing their own 
        research, such as Dr Hans Nieper, former Director of the Department of 
        Medicine at Silbersee Hospital in Hanover, Germany: During a visit to 
        the United States in 1972, Dr Nieper told reporters: "After more 
        than twenty years of such specialised work, I have found non-toxic nitrilosides 
        - that is, Laetrile - far superior to any other known cancer treatment 
        or preventative. In my opinion, it is the only existing possibility for 
        the ultimate control of cancer." In Canada, Dr N R Bouziane, former Director of Research 
        Laboratories at St Jeanne D'Arc Hospital in Montreal, published his repeated 
        successes in treating cancers with nutrition, which were written up in 
        the medical literature, including the Cancer News Journal, Jan/April 1971, 
        p.20, under the article heading "The Laetrile Story" . In the Philippines, Dr Manuel Navarro, former Professor 
        of Medicine and Surgery at the University of Santo Tomas, Manila, and 
        an internationally recognised cancer researcher with over 100 major scientific 
        papers to his credit, treated terminally ill cancer patients with Laetrile 
        for over 25 years. He stated in the Cancer News Journal: "It is 
        my carefully considered clinical judgement, as a practising oncologist 
        and researcher in this field, that I have obtained most significant and 
        encouraging results with the use of Laetrile-amygdalin in the treatment 
        of terminal cancer patients..." In Mexico, Dr Ernesto Contreras, one of the country's 
        leading medical specialists in nutritional treatment for cancer for over 
        30 years, remarks of B17-Laetrile's action with extreme terminal cancer 
        cases: "The palliative action [the ability of a substance to improve 
        the comfort of a patient] is in about 60% of the cases. Frequently, enough 
        to be significant, I see arrest of the disease or even regression in some 
        15% of the very advanced cases." Ernesto's son Francisco Contreras continues the work 
        today after his father's retirement. Francisco is author of The Hope of 
        Living Cancer Free in which he lays out the protocols his clinic has used 
        to marvellous success in treating thousands of patients since 1963. In Italy, Professor Etore Guidetti, of the University 
        of Turin Medical School, announced startling results with Laetrile in 
        successfully combating many types of cancer, including cervix, breast, 
        uterus and rectum. After a speech, an American doctor rose in the audience, 
        challenging the Italian professor that Laetrile had been found to be worthless 
        in the United States. Dr Guidetti was abrupt and dismissive: "I 
        care not what was determined in the United States. I am merely reporting 
        what I saw in my own clinic." Extracted from B17 Metabolic Therapy by Phillip Day © Copyright 2003 Further Resources: B17 Metabolic Therapy by Phillip Day The ABC's of Disease by Phillip Day Cancer: Why We're Still Dying 
        to Know the Truth by Phillip Day Great 
        News on Cancer in the 21st Century by Steven Ransom Click here to purchase or 
        review any of the above. Click here for telephone 
        sales around the world. Click here if you wish to contact Credence 