
Bladder Control Problems & Physical Therapy | New Ulm Medical Center Skip to main content Careers About Allina Give / Volunteer En Español For Medical Professionals Employee Sign-In Home Health, Conditions & Treatments Medical Services Customer Service Family Health Manager MyChart Find a Provider Find a Location Find an Event/Class Search Allina.com Advanced Search New Ulm Medical Center Skip section navigation Hospital home Patient & visitor information Hospital services Clinic Providers About New Ulm Medical Center Hospital overview In the community Careers Volunteering Newsroom Foundation Contact us Weak bladder muscles? Think physical therapy For women with bladder control problems, help may be no farther away than a physical therapist's office. Though perhaps not the health care professional that first comes to mind for urinary incontinence, physical therapists at the Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute — New Ulm regularly treat women for this common problem, using bladder re-training education, strengthening exercises and even biofeedback. Urinary incontinence affects millions of American adults; many of them women older than 50, though it can occur at any age, and men can also be affected. Health experts say many people suffer in silence, embarrassed by the condition or fearful that they might need surgery. "Urinary incontinence does not have to be a normal part of aging, and there is a lot that can be done short of surgery," said Amanda Forstrom, a physical therapist at the Sister Kenny Institute-New Ulm, part of Allina Hospitals & Clinics. Forstrom oversees the institute's urinary incontinence program along with physical therapist Tammy Henle. "We see women of all ages with stress, urge and mixed types of incontinence," Forstrom said. Stress incontinence is the leaking of urine with activities such as coughing or sneezing. Urge incontinence is a sudden and strong urge to urinate that makes it hard to get to a bathroom on time. "The usual cause of stress incontinence is a weakening of the muscles that control the bladder opening," Forstrom explained. The answer? Kegel exercises, which strengthen the muscles. "Some people can learn these exercises on their own, but research has shown that about 40 to 50 percent of individuals benefit from more in-depth instruction with a therapist to do them effectively," Forstrom said. "For most women, these sessions take about 30 to 45 minutes and can be completed in about six visits over a two-month period." Women are taught to squeeze specific muscles in the pelvic area to a count of 10 and then to relax the muscles for 10 more counts. Once the Kegel exercise has been mastered, doing it 10 to 20 times at least three times a day can help keep the pelvic muscles in shape. But finding the right muscles to squeeze can be tricky at first. At the institute, that's where biofeedback comes in. "About half of the women we work with need biofeedback to help them use their pelvic muscles correctly," Forstrom said. In biofeedback, small electrodes are placed by the pelvic floor muscles to monitor their activity, which can then be seen on a viewing screen. "During biofeedback, patients can look at the screen and tell when they are doing the exercises correctly," she said. Bladder control counseling is also part of the treatment plan. This might include keeping a bladder diary to see if there are unhelpful patterns that can be modified to provide better urinary control. "We also counsel patients on the importance of a healthy diet, how to keep track of their fluid intake and what types of foods and fluids may contribute to incontinence," Forstrom said. Women often are referred to the Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute by family doctors, nurse practitioners and gynecology specialists. "At this time we only treat women, but we hope to expand services to men in the future," Forstrom said. Surgery may be necessary for some women to relieve their symptoms.  However, she said that patients may appreciate the choice of first trying an effective, non-surgical option to improve their bladder control. "Many of our patients find they can get significant relief," Forstrom said. "And for those that may eventually need a surgical procedure, these exercises can help them have an even more successful outcome after surgery." To find out more about physical therapy for urinary incontinence, call the Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute — New Ulm, at 507-233-1173. Health e-newsletters | | HON certified Contact us | Privacy | Terms of use | Disclaimer | Accessibility | En Español This site is presented for information only and is not intended to substitute for professional medical advice. Allina®, the Allina logo, and Medformation® are registered trademarks of Allina Health System. Presentation 