
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 03:45:44 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 03:45:45 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Fish Oil and its Benefits Loading Contact Us 702-560-HERB Dimmak Herbs Live Chat Home Ailment List Services About Contact Wholesale Program Pet Products Search Shop by Category Products by Ailment New Products Monthly Specials Sports Training Products Sports Medicine Products First Aid Products Clinic Size Products Bulk Chinese Herbs Cleanse & Detox Products Ginseng Supplements Organ Health Womens Health Mens Health Cold & Flu Remedies Shop by Product Type Shop All Product Types Medicinal Tea Pills / Capsules Liniment Elixir & Tinctures Balms, Salves & Ointment Oils Poultices & Plasters Powders Soaks, Baths & Steamers Boluses Custom Formula Navigation Product Directions Articles Blog Videos Recently Viewed Eucalyptus Facial Steamer-No Touch Facial Steamer (Category: Soaks/Baths/Steamers ) Herbal ICE-Cold Compress/Ice Alternative (Category: First-Aid ) IMMUNITY-Germ Immunity Formula (Category: Pills/Capsules ) DIMMAK First AID Kit-DIMMAK SIZE (Category: First Aid Kits ) SRW #1-Sore Throat and Cough Syrup (Category: Syrups ) Secure Payments Fish Oil and its Benefits People who zealously guard their health and fitness will likely scurry to find some place to hide when they hear ‘fat’ and ‘oil’. There are 2 types of fats, the bad one and the good ones but these people just have not been able to comprehend this. More harm would in fact be done than good when fats and oils are absolutely eliminated in a person’s diet. The Skinny about Fish Oil An individual would be putting one nail at a time in his own coffin by entirely wiping out from his day to day eating plan the fatty acids that are very important for the body. Omega -3 EFAS and omega-6 EFAS are the two types of essential fatty acids. Appearance of tumor, inflammation and clotting of the blood can result from excessive consumption of omega-6 EFAS according to researches even if between the two types of essential fatty acids there are just very small disparities. But there is a silver lining to it; omega-3 EFAS has the reverse effect. Both kinds of the fatty acids can be found in numerous foods, for example in fish oils you can find omega-3 EFAS and in vegetable oils, there is the omega-6 EFAS. Differences between Omega-3 and Omega-6 When a person does not balance his intake of omega-3 EFAS and omega-6 EFAS, diseases such as obesity, high blood pressure, aging prematurely, hypertension, certain cancers and cardiovascular diseases would result as believed by scientists and doctors. Vegetable oils contain omega-6 EFAS, as stated on a previous paragraph. Linoleic acid is also found in quantity that is high in soy and corn oil, two examples of the numerous foods that contain omega-6 EFAS. Oils from flaxseed, marine plankton and walnuts contain the omega-3 EFAS. Two kinds of fatty acids that have been detected to give our body benefits and whose presence in fish oils and fatty fish is noteworthy are the docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Fish comprises the major part of the diet of the Greenland Eskimos that is high in fat and this was found in a research done in the early part of 1970’s to be the reason why cardiovascular diseases is uncommon among this group of people. Certain types of cancer, heart attacks, depression and atherosclerosis are avoided with the aid of DHA and EPA. Diabetes, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis and Raynaud’s disease are examples of ailments which have been confirmed can be treated with the consumption of certain foods which contain fish oil. Fish oil and more about the benefits we get from it: Favourable results that are of importance have been established regarding eating foods containing fish oil in relation to its being able to help in the treatment of a number of certain diseases. How to achieve a more healthy heart: Without a doubt, a part of the body that has one of the most vital is the heart and wanting to enjoy a longer life would equal to having a heart that is healthy. Including food that has fish oil in our daily diet is one means in maintaining a heart that is in good condition as this is what we logically want to strive for. There was a research done to prove the connection between the blood vessels being inflamed and the consumption of diet highly consisting of fish in Athens , Greece . The probability of having inflamed blood vessels is normally determined by these factors, interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein, which were shown in the results to be at a level that was higher in people who consumed fewer amounts of fish. And taking into consideration the different known risks related with a diet consisting of high amounts of fish, the benefits found remained acknowledged. A slimmer figure by eating fish: Diseases such as obesity and hypertension have been shown in a study done in Perth , Australia , to have been curbed by eating fish. A person’s tolerance to glucose is enhanced and blood pressure brought down successfully by following a diet in the quest to loss weight which involved eating fish at normal amounts and this was shown in a research in the University of Western Australia (UWA). Respiratory disease such as asthma can be fought off with the help of fish oil: Unwell and out of shape is usually how asthmatic people are inclined to be believed as. People have been long plagued by this disease will take delight in knowing that fish oil can offer a lot of good as shown by some studies. Today, different types of asthma afflict about 20 to 25% of children at any given age according to surveys. One reason for such affliction is eating food that contains lionleic acid in high levels according to some data. A group of children where part of a research done by the University of Wyoming (UW) wherein some were allowed to maintain the diet they normally follow while some were given a diet which was high in fish. Breathing was not laborious and attacks were minimized in the group of children who were given the high-fish diet. Have a talk with your nutritionist today: It would be unsafe for a person’s health when he eliminates certain types of food all together and what is just as unsafe is to eat certain foods at an excessive rate. Your nutritionist will be able to give you information regarding proper intake of fish in accordance to your state of health and age. Feature Products SYRENITY-Pain and Menta ... $9.95 DMI S-3rd Stage Hand Tr ... $9.00 Dimmak CLOT-The Stop Bl ... $4.95 Sleep AID-The Sleep For ... $16.99 Blood Purifier-Blood De ... $16.99 Raw Whole Ginseng Root- ... $7.00 PHOCUS-Mental/Visual St ... $16.99 Ageless Sinew A Ligamen ... $8.50 POST PSYCLE Menopause S ... $16.99 Tendon Mending Pills-Te ... $18.95 Affinity Soak-Anti-Infl ... $9.95 Bone Comp-Deep/Anti-inf ... $8.50 REGULATOR-The Bowel Ton ... $16.99 Skin Purifier-Skin Ailm ... $16.99 Herbal ICE Bulk Powder $39.00 $29.00 You Save: $10.00 Herbal ICE-Cold Compres ... $9.95 30 Day Whole Body Clean ... $225.00 $195.00 You Save: $30.00 Quick Kill-The Cold Kil ... $16.99 DIMMAK 19 Soreness Oil $9.00 Ultimate Herbal Bath $8.95 Announcements Happy Chinese New Year! Year of the Dragon. Like Us on Facebook to keep us with all the latest at Dimmak Herbs! Cart Your Cart is currently empty. Login returning customers can login here: Remember Me Forgot your password? Forgot your username? Custom Formulations Can't exactly what you need? Want a formula made for YOU? Want one formula for multiple complaints or the highest potency possible? Add Us On Facebook Terms & Conditions Shipping Info Sitemap © Copyrighted, All Right