Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Leg cramps and Aging Web IndiaCurry Cooking | Health | Nutrition | Weight Gain | Weight Loss | Women | Baby | Social Planning | SITEMAP 49+ | Cholesterol | Constipation | Diabetes | Heartburn | Hypertension | Obesity | Daily Sample Menus | FAQ Leg cramps and Aging The muscles in the legs and toes get contracted involuntarily and have difficulty in relaxing. These are called cramps. Cramps are may last from few seconds to a few minutes. Population at large can experience cramps at any age. However, they are more frequent as we get older. These are also called as Rest Cramps or night cramps. When we are asleep, body movement shortens the muscle, that has difficulty relaxing, resulting in the cramp. Causes of cramps The actual cause of rest cramps is not known. As we age, our food intake decreases, with low metabolism, can lower the minerals such as Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium. The low blood Calcium may also be a result of of low Vitamin specially for South Asians living in North USA and Canada. Low B vitamins such as Vitamin B1, B5, and B6 Most of Calcium and Vitamin deficiencies can be addresses through proper supplement Choosing Calcium Supplement Choosing Senior Vitamin and Mineral Supplement One major cause is low body fluids. One must drink about 8 cups of water and other fluids per day excluding Alcohol. Foods Avoid processes foods, simple carbohydrates (sugar), red meats such as lamb and beef. Avoid foods high in acids such as: Lime, lemon, Dry mango powder, Tamarind, Vinegar, alcohol Eat raw spinach, sprouted Moong beans Eat nuts such as: Walnuts, Sesame seeds, Almonds, and Peanuts Eat Dahi Yogurt Eat Calcium rich foods Eat Magnesium rich foods Drink at least 8 cups of water per day Exercise The following exercise involve three steps and helps to stretch the leg muscles. 1. Stand facing a wall, about 30" away from the wall. 2. Now, lean your body toward the wall using hands and forearms for support. Make sure the feel remain flat on the ground. 3. Maintain the leaned position for 10 seconds Quinine In India, we have used Quinine for Malaria for generations. Quinine sulfate (325 mg) at bed time remains the most effective medication. In United States, it is available only through prescription. Quinine is also present in the Tonic water, but the amount