<http://www.lumbacurve.co.uk/?p=815>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Advice on How to Prevent Chronic Lower Back Pain Lower Back Pain Relief Devices & Natural Cures For Back Pain Home How LumbaCurve works What is LumbaCurve? LumbaCurve Reviews What the Experts Think Will LumbaCurve work for me? Acupressure Identification Chart How to use LumbaCurve LumbaCurve Videos LumbaCurve Introduction How LumbaCurve Works for Back Pain Relief How to use LumbaCurve Dr Chris Steele Medical Show News & Features Contact LumbaCurve Shop LumbaCurve Cart LumbaCurve Checkout Your LumbaCurve Order LumbaCurve Links LumbaCurve Terms & Conditions LumbaCurve International Ltd Privacy Testimonials “Being a back pain sufferer for over six years, I had learned to live with the constant pain and deteriorating mobility, waking in the morning and feeling those first stabs of pain.

After the first few days of using LumbaCurve, I went through the doubting stage, ‘that this was not going to work’, but willingly kept going. After one week I started to notice a difference. By using LumbaCurve, and carrying out the simple exercise routine, I was experiencing greater mobility and less back pain.

By the end of week two, I no longer woke each morning with sciatic pain, and was moving around much more easily.

I have now made the LumbaCurve routine part of my daily life, and am eagerly awaiting the opportunity to purchase the finished version. I didn’t believe that LumbaCurve would have helped me so much, but am so thankful for being introduced to LumbaCurve.    I now feel my age, not someone ten years older.” GP Financial and Pensions Advisor (Brussels, Belgium) « Exercise to Help Back Pain Back Pain Relief from Early Treatment » Preventing Chronic Lower Back Pain Lower back pain is a condition that you should never brush off or assume won’t happen to you. In an article that appeared in the Sundays Zaman, Dr. Kadriye Öneş, from the Istanbul Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Teaching and Research Hospital, says: “People need to prevent this sort of pain from becoming chronic. Treating chronic lower back pain is actually more difficult and quite different from treating acute lower back pain.” Lower back pain is a health problem encountered by people of all ages at some point in their lives and one that needs to be taken seriously before it progresses to advanced stages. Lower back pain must be taken seriously as it may be an indicator of a slipped disc or other conditions that may require surgery. The medical condition known as acute lower back pain generally has a sudden onset, and the patient then usually feels better from a few days to one or two months. Of these, around 40 percent of people have a reoccurrence of acute lower back pain within the same year. Öneş notes that what is most important is to prevent lower back pain from becoming chronic. She notes that acute lower back pain generally responds to a couple of days of bed rest combined with appropriate medication. On the other hand, chronic lower back pain requires medication, special exercises, physical therapy and a review of a patient’s emotional and psychological state. Öneş says that 50 percent of patients with lower back pain often feel better in the first week of treatment, while 90 percent see an improvement over the next two to three months. “People can take very simple precautions to prevent this pain from occurring again,” she says. Cigarettes and alcohol can be factors Patients with lower back pain need to visit a doctor to get help in determining the reason for the pain. Usually, lower back pain is rooted in problems involving the muscular-skeletal system. Other reasons for lower back pain can be infections or lesions, which is why an exact diagnosis is important in these situations. Generally, most people assume that a sudden jolt or lifting too heavy a load are the only reasons for lower back pain; most people never even consider the role played by cigarettes or alcohol. While it is true that lifting heavy loads, staying for too long in one position or even sitting for extended periods in the same position are important risk factors in lower back pain, Öneş also points to cigarette and alcohol use as factors in episodes of lower back pain. For example, the ingredients contained in cigarettes can lead to a narrowing of the arteries, which in turn leads to decreased blood circulation, which can lead to lower back pain. Exercises tailored to the individual Maintaining a correct posture and keeping your weight at a reasonable level are important in terms of not putting extra pressure on your lower back. Says Öneş, “It is very important that individuals are given special exercises tailored to their personal lower back muscular strength, their biomechanics and the initial reason for their pain.” She also notes that each individual requires a personalized examination and have exercises prescribed based on the outcome of these examinations. Exercises assigned without tailoring to the unique needs of the individual could do more harm than good, she warns. This is why it is crucial for patients experiencing lower back pain to seek professional treatment and attend physical therapy and rehabilitation centers. Öneş notes that patients, based on medical advise from their doctor, should also walk three to four times a week to help strengthen their muscles and help keep their weight under control. Preventing lower back pain People need to be aware of the things they can do to avoid back pain: When carrying something heavy, carry the load close to the body and try to share the weight evenly between both hands; bend from the knees when picking something up from the ground (rather than bending from the waist); try to avoid turning or moving suddenly when sitting; try not to stretch beyond your capacity when reaching for something on a high shelf; and when sitting, keep your posture straight and firm. Full article Sunday’s Zaman LumbaCurve Lower Back Pain Relief Products News article watch How to use LumbaCurve for Natural Back Pain Relief Video on how to use the LumbaCurve back pain therapy device The film features LumbaCurve techniques that can provide effective lower back pain relief As always, please consult your GP before using back pain relief products Bookmark on Delicious Digg this post Recommend on Facebook share via Reddit Share with Stumblers Tweet about it Subscribe to the comments on this post Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. You must be logged in to post a comment. « Exercise to Help Back Pain Back Pain Relief from Early Treatment » Shopping Cart Your cart is empty. Testimonials “I do a lot of marathon running, but was unable to train at all because of my back ‘flaring up’ again (the result of a soccer fall years ago). A few days on LumbaCurve and the Paris marathon was no problem!” JA Advertising Response Analyst (Cheshire) Back Pain Features Clinical effectiveness of LumbaCurve Back Pain Relief New Back Pain Relief Products feature at Southern Manufacturing 2012 Amazon Joins LumbaCurve Resellers Back Pain Drug use s