<http://www.hotflashfreedom.com/blog/?p=212>; rel=shortlink
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural Relief For Hot Flashes | Hot Flashes Hot Flash Freedom Logo Menopause Ingredients/Use Guarantee FAQ Testimonials Contact Us Order Natural Relief For Hot Flashes Menopause is a natural occurrence that happens to all women when they reach a certain age. Technically it is a stopping of a woman’s period (or menses), hence the name. There are many symptoms of menopause, but none as obvious as the hot flashes that you experience. Hot flashes can range from mild hot spells at night to constant dripping and sweating during the daytime. It starts suddenly, with a rapid heartbeat, intense feeling of heat on your face and upper body, and continues with possible headaches and nausea. It may only last a short time but there is no mistaking the feeling of a hot flash. Hot flashes are caused by a hormonal imbalance and estrogen loss. The loss of estrogen causes the part of the brain that is responsible for your body temperature to think that it is too hot. Your body in turn tries to use the nervous system’s chemical ability to relieve the heat by having your heart beat faster, and using the perspiration to relieve the body of the sudden warmth. It is essentially a way to cool you off even though the feeling you are having is that it is heating you up. As many as 85% of women have reported having hot flashes. But only about 10% to 15% of women have severe enough hot flashes that they need to seek their doctors advice on how to handle them. Most women can just make simple lifestyle changes such as layering their clothing, changing their diet, and exercising on a regular basis. If you do find that you need to turn to medication, or Hormone Replacement Therapy, check out all your options. You may only need Estrogen Therapy, or perhaps just a few natural solutions such as vitamins or Black Cohosh, which is proven to be a natural relief solution for hot flashes. Relaxation and stress reduction techniques should be your first stop on the way to being hot flash free. Yoga and meditation are excellent ways to calm your body before and during a hot flash to make it seem more tolerable. During the day make sure to keep an ice cold glass of water nearby to cool you down during or before a hot flash. Another tip is to lower the temperature wherever you are. This is where the layering of clothes comes in – it helps with the many different temperatures you will go through in a day. Just as the old saying goes, this too shall pass. Although it may take 2 to 5 years on average, it will end. Just try to make it as bearable as possible during this time and before you know it the symptoms of hot flashes will disappear naturally with time. Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/medicine-articles/natural-relief-for-hot-flashes-87062.html Share and Enjoy: Tags: Categories Blog Hormone Imbalance Hot Flashes Menopause Menopause Treatment night sweats Progesterone Cream Tags Hot Flashes hot flashes menopause menopause relief menopause symptom symptoms of menopause If you are looking to losing weight the healthy way, see why over 20,000 doctors have recommended the Medifast Diet. Save on your order with medifast coupons Recent Posts How to Prevent Menopause Symptoms in Your Daily Life Overcoming The Symptoms Of Menopause Menopause Symptoms May be Eased Through Natural Ways Coping With The Symptoms Of A Hot Flash Taking Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Before They Take Control Of You How To Take On That Hot Flash Symptom And Win! Chinese Medicine Can Provide An Effective Hot Flash Remedy Common Hot Flash Symptoms And How To Cope With Them Coping With The Dreaded Menopause Hot Flash Getting Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Menopause Strategies: Taking Vitamins For A Hot Flash Are There Side Effects Of Black Cohosh When Used For Hot Flashes? The Magic Of Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes Stopping Menopausal Hot Flashes Some Facts About Early and Premature Menopause Hot Flashes Remedy - Is There One That Really Works? Why Do I Have Hot Flashes During Pregnancy? For Fast Relief Use An Herbal Remedy For Hot Flashes Overview of Male Menopause Which Natural Cure For Hot Flashes Actually Works To Relieve Symptoms? Some Things About the Male Menopause Help For Hot Flashes Without Hrt The Causes of Early Menopause Medications Such as Effexor and Has Been Shown to Ease the Number and Intensity of Hot Flashes Finding Relief Through Menopause Treatment How To Find Simple Relief For Hot Flashes And Night Sweats Few Clarifications Regarding Menopause What Causes Hot Flashes And When Will They Be Over? What Can Trigger An Early Menopause Natural Relief For Hot Flashes Dealing With Post Menopause Problems What Is The Truth About Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes? Can Acupuncture Help Control Menopause Symptoms? What Causes Hot Flashes? Menopause Symptoms: Different For Every Woman Using Herbal Remedies For Hot Flashes To Avoid The Dangers Of HRT The Connection Between Menopause And Mood Swings Are Hot Flashes During Menopause More Common In American Women? How Male Menopause is Different From Female Menopause Relief From Pregnancy Hot Flashes A Brief Overview Of Endometriosis And Menopause How To Get Menopausal Relief With These Natural Herbs For Hot Flashes Frequent Urination and Menopause Are Hot Flashes During Menopause More Common In American Women? Positive Aspects Of Menopause? Get Control Of Hot Flashes With These 8 Simple Tips Sex After Menopause - The Difficulties And The Delights Menopause How Early Is Too Early? Get Control Of Hot Flashes With These 8 Simple Tips Menopause and Insomnia Herbal Remedies For Hot Flashes: Are They Effective? Menopause and Natural Alternatives Menopause Hot Flashes Overview Keeping An Eye Out For Menopause Signs Menopause Relief From Hot Flashes Early Menopause Symptoms - How Early Symptoms of Menopause Can Occur What Is The Link Between Hysterectomy And Menopause? Menopause Migraine Breaking The Cycle Supplementation Suggestions To Ease Menopause Symptoms Vitamins For Menopause - Naturally! How Stress Can Play A Large Role In Menopause Fatigue How To Have Better Sexual Health By Eating The Right Foods Coping With The Emotional Impact Of Menopause What You Do Not Know About Panic Attacks Can Hurt You Menopause and Diminished Sex Drive Natural Ways To Avoid Hormone Imbalance How Menopause Can Effect Your Appetite From A Nurse: Choosing The Best Prostate Cancer Treatment Options For You What Is Menopause? Informative Speech On Migraine In Children Vitamin for Menopause, Understanding What's Good for You Detecting Menopause Through Testing Lupron And Endometriosis What You Need To Know Find Your Menopause Supplement Today! Why Exercise Really Can Provide Menopause Relief Should You Take Menopause Diet Pills? Menopause and Complications Strategies In Dealing With Menopause The Truth On Menopause and Weight Gain Tips in Coping With Menopause Herbs Dealing With and Treating Menopause Menopause Natural Solutions 6 Questions and Answers to Help Prepare you to Go Through Menopause Induced Menopause is Not the End When Menopause Happens, Symptoms And Treatment Advice Detox Hepatitis C? Menopause and High Blood Pressure The Change of Life The Recommended Diet for Menopause Are Natural Hormone Products Hype Or Helpful? Symptoms of Early Menopause Menopause Help - Don't Go Into Self Denial Menopause: What Every Woman Needs to Know Treatment of Symptoms in Menopause Learning How to Deal With Menopause Recent Posts How to Prevent Menopause Symptoms in Your Daily Life Overcoming The Symptoms Of Menopause Menopause Symptoms May be Eased Through Natural Ways Coping With The Symptoms Of A Hot Flash Taking Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Before They Take Control Of You Because this product is not a drug and contains none, it has not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, cure or prevent any disease. Hot flashes | Affiliate Program | Menopause | SiteMap | Privacy | Contact Us |  © HotFlashFreedom.com  All Rights Reserved Blogs: Hot Flashes | Menopause | Perimenopause | Night Sweats | Natural Health Products Web Designer DiscountWebDesigner.com Search Engin