Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8
X-Cache: MISS from squid3.vanguardistas.net
X-Cache-Lookup: MISS from squid3.vanguardistas.net:80
Via: 1.1 squid3.vanguardistas.net:80 (squid/2.7.STABLE9)
Connection: close

What's sour and red and packed with nutrients? - EyesOnBCMagazine Home | Our Story | Advertise | Subscribe | Current & Past Editions | Links We love | Contact Us Connect with Us Inspired Stories Incredible Edibles Outrageous Outdoors Artz Feelin' Good Feelin' Good What's sour and red and packed with nutrients? December 9, 2011 Content Do you like this? RSS Print by Linda Watts At most Thanksgiving and Christmas dinner celebrations in North America a golden roasted turkey is usually front and centre at the meal. But there’s a more humble food on the table that deserves some attention –  and it’s not the stuffing. It turns out cranberries, as tart as they are, may be just what the doctor ordered. While vitamin C and fibre play a role in cranberry's health benefits, it's the fruit’s phytonutrients that has gotten the attention of researchers. Centuries ago, indigenous people knew cranberry had something medicinal to offer and began using the fruit for urinary tract infections (UTIs). Today we know that this folklore remedy had some merit. While there isn’t a lot of scientific evidence that supports using cranberry in treating existing UTIs, research findings have revealed that cranberry juice and cranberry supplements help prevent a bacterial invasion of our water works. Modern research is trying to help us understand the exact mechanism in which cranberry prevents UTIs. Theories have been floating around for years that suggest cranberry’s effectiveness is due to its ability to acidify the urine but this has never been proven. “Current theories [regarding cranberry and the prevention of UTIs] relate to the presence of naturally-occurring substances in cranberry, which enter the urine and prevent bacteria from binding to the lining of the urinary tract. Attachment of bacteria, such as E. coli, to the lining of the urinary tract is one of the hallmarks that results in an actual infection of the bladder muscle”, says Dr. Lynn Stothers, an associate professor of urology at the University of British Columbia. Stothers, who is also the director of research at UBC’s Bladder Care Centre, received a $1 million U.S. grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to investigate the effects of cranberry products in women with recurrent UTIs. Although cranberry products are commonly taken to prevent UTIs, an optimally effective dose of juice or supplements hasn’t been established and the chemicals responsible for the UTI-preventing properties in cranberry have yet to be conclusively identified. The NIH-funded study will determine the minimum dose of cranberry products necessary to prevent UTIs and whether plant pigments called proanthocyanidins influence the UTI-preventing properties of cranberry. Aside from preventing UTIs, the anti-adhesion effect of cranberry may positively influence other harmful bacteria in our bodies. Promising areas of research include the prevention of  H. pylori infection and periodontal gum disease. H. pylori is the culprit behind most gastric ulcers; cranberry products may decrease the likelihood of this bacteria infecting the stomach lining. The incidence of periodontal gum disease and dental cavities may also be reduced because cranberry could prevent bacteria from clinging to tooth enamel. Regularly consuming cranberry products may have far reaching implications if we develop fewer infections and use fewer antibiotics. Reducing our dependency on antibiotics could decrease the likelihood of creating antibiotic-resistant “super bugs”. And that’s a positive health consequence none of us should ignore. Linda Watts is a registered dietitian living on Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Send questions or comments to wattslin@gmail.com December 9, 2011 Latest Comments Be the first to post... Welcome facebook user Logout Sending... Oops, an error occurred, please try again later. Comment successfully submitted All comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. You need to enter the correct word from the image. Subject needed: Please enter a subject. Add your thoughts Your name: Bobo Facebook Publish comment to your Wall Subject: Type your comments here: ( 3000 characters left ) Enter word from the image All comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. Oceanside Event Calendar April Home & Garden Eaglecrest Garden Club - Annual Plant Sale Apr 21, 2012 Eaglecrest Golf Club Fashion & Trunk Shows Back on the Rack Apr 21, 2012 Fanny Bay Hall Charity & Fundraisers Karma Yoga Apr 21, 2012 Hot N Cool Yoga Club - Qualicum Studio Fashion & Trunk Shows Spring Tea & Fashion Show - St. Stephen’s United Church Apr 21, 2012 St. Stephen’s United Church Religion & Spirituality Whisper Metaphysical Sanctuary Presents: Monthly Sacred Sound Circles Apr 22, 2012 Whisper Metaphysical Sanctuary Parties & Clubs Beta Sigma Phi Founder's Day Apr 25, 2012 Fairwinds Golf Club Business & Career Oceanside Hospice AGM Apr 26, 2012 Valhalla Health & Wellness DreamWork: Connecting to your Inner Self Apr 26, 2012 Parksville Community and Conference Centre Art & Exhibitions Bowser Elementary School PAC Apr 27, 2012 Bowser Elementary School Home & Garden Qualicum Beach Garden Club Apr 28, 2012 Qualicum Beach Garden Club Home & Garden Spring Craft Fair Apr 29, 2012 Union Bay Community Hall May Parties & Clubs Parksville Newcomers Club May 3, 2012 Parksville Community and Conference Centre Charity & Fundraisers Karma Yoga May 5, 2012 Hot N Cool Yoga Club - Qualicum Studio Health & Wellness Hike for Hospice May 6, 2012 Valhalla Kids & Family RCL Branch # 211 Ladies Auxiliary “Spring Fling Fashion Show and Tea” May 6, 2012 Bowser Legion Home & Garden Qualicum Beach Garden Club May 8, 2012 Qualicum Beach Civic Centre Markets Pancake Breakfast & Flea Market May 13, 2012 Lighthouse Community Centre Kids & Family MOTHER’S DAY SPECIAL BREAKFAST May 13, 2012 Union Bay Community Hall Festivals & Fairs The 36th Annual Qualicum Beach Family Day May 27, 2012 Qualicum Beach Civic Centre Concerts & Live Music Friends of Nikolai Chamber Quartet present “Beethoven Fest” May 27, 2012 McMillan Arts Centre June Charity & Fundraisers Karma Yoga Jun 2, 2012 Hot N Cool Yoga Club - Qualicum Studio Markets Pancake Breakfast & Flea Market Jun 10, 2012 Lighthouse Community Centre Charity & Fundraisers Bowser Seniors Housing Society AGM Jun 26, 2012 Nordin Room, Lighthouse Community Hall Submit Yours Inspired Stories Incredible Edibles Outrageous Outdoors Artz Feelin' Good Our Story Advertise Subscribe Current & Past Editions Contact Us Links We love Copyright EyesOnBC P