Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Most of us want fast results when we are sick and miserable. Typically people buy non-prescription drugs over the counter because they dont know there are other treatments available. For Most of us want fast results when we are sick and miserable. Typically people buy non-prescription drugs over the counter because they dont know there are other treatments available. For Home Benefits Product Info FAQ's News Contact Us Life Extension Increased 
										Endurance Weight Loss Diabetes Control Heart Health Cancer Prevention Alzheimer's 
										Prevention Herbal Remedies Health Benefits Most of us want fast results when we are sick and miserable. Typically people buy non-prescription drugs over the counter because they don't know there are other treatments available. For many health conditions using herbal remedies derived from plants is a healthy alternative. It is best to plan ahead and learn which herbal remedies may work for a specific health condition. The following list of common herbs is an example of possible health benefits for treating some ailments. Herbal remedies are prepared in many forms such as teas, herbal extracts (tinctures), capsules or loose/dried in a bag. Chamomile This herb is popular as a tea and can calm nerves, relieve stomach distress, prevent ulcers, and help fight infection. Chamomile may be used to relieve morning sickness during pregnancy, to treat gastritis and ulcerative colitis, and may be used to speed healing of skin ulcers, wounds, or burns. Dong Quia Dong quai has been used in Asia for thousands of years as a tonic for the female reproductive system. It also balances and strengthens the female organs and regulates their functions. Feverfew Several studies confirm feverfew's value in preventing migraines. Feverfew may be used as an anti-inflammatory for relief of arthritis, to relieve some types of menstrual problems, and as a digestive aid. Garlic More than 1,000 scientific studies have shown health benefits of garlic. Garlic has been used as protection against colds and flu. In addition, garlic may help lower cholesterol, prevent blood clots, reduce blood pressure and protect against bacterial and fungal infections. Studies have shown that garlic may have a positive role in the prevention of coronary heart disease, thrombosis and arteriosclerosis. Ginger Ginger has been used for centuries to control nausea and for reducing inflammation. Goldenseal Goldenseal is found in popular herbal blends for relieving intestinal and gallbladder inflammation. It also has been used to soothe inflamed or infected mucous membranes. Goldenseal may be used to reduce colds, flu and other respiratory infections especially at the beginning of infection. Goldenseal has both anti-infective and immune-system stimulating properties that may shorten the course of the illness. Licorice Licorice is an important herb for treating a host of ailments. It may help as an anti-inflammatory and to soothe stomach upset and control coughs. Licorice Root has properties similar to cortisone and estrogen. It stimulates the adrenal glands and may help the body cope with stress. Peppermint Peppermint oil calms the stomach, the intestinal tract, and the nervous system. It can also reduce the inflammation of nasal passages and relieve muscle pains. SAFETY Herbal remedies may be safer and have fewer side effects than prescription medicines. Always read the label and use only the recommended dosage. Do not take any herbs during pregnancy --- check with your doctor first. If you are currently taking any prescription medicines always check with your doctor before using herbal remedies or before starting any health supplement program. Herbs are a healthy alternative for treating many health conditions. Read and save articles like this in a small notebook and create your own research library with health benefits of each herb. There are many resources available online that outline specific health conditions and recommend herbs. Herbs can be purchased online or at local health food stores. In addition, for treating specific health conditions, you may want to work with a naturopath or an acupuncturist. Copyright © 2006 Wayne McDonald. All rights reserved. Catalogue: Health & Fitness | Alternative Medicine Title: Herbal Remedies Health Benefits By: Wayne McDonald [ Comment, Edit or Article Submission ] . 60 VCaps Natural Way Price:$11.30 read more.. Home l Product Info l Privacy Policy l FAQ's l