Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dental Insurance -  Hygienists Dental
                  Hygienists Plans Insurance
                        Quotes Auto
                            Insurance Quote Health
                            Insurance Quotes Home
                            Insurance Dental
                            Insurance Life
                            Insurance Quote Insurance
                        Companies Insurance
      Complaints & Questions Suggest a site What's
      Dental Hygienists Do Dental hygienists
              help out dentists in many ways There main duty is
              to clean patients teeth. Keeping teeth clean and taking care of
              them prevents tooth decay and gum disease. Tooth decay is a
              process that turns healthy teeth rotten.  Gum disease is an
              illness in the areas of firm pink flesh around the teeth. Dental hygienists
              clean peoples teeth.  Dental hygienists remove plaque and
              calculus from teeth. Plaque is a soft
              coating that forms on teeth that can cause tooth decay. Calculus
              is hardened plaque. Dental hygienists also remove stains. Stains are colored
              spots on teeth. Dental hygienists also polish and floss teeth. Floss means to pull a thin strand of thread between teeth to clean
              them. Dental
              hygienists keep careful records on each patient.  They write
              down all possible signs of decay or disease. They record locations
              of all cavities and fillings.  A cavity is a hole in a
              tooth caused by decay.  A filling is a matter put into a
              cavity to stop decay. Dental hygienists must be exact in keeping
              these charts. Dentists depend on these charts to decide how to
              treat patients teeth. Benefits &
                Commissions Of a Dental Assistant Full time dental
                hygienists are usually the only hygienists who receive
                benefits.  Hygienists may receive dental insurance and health
                insurance paid holidays and paid six days health insurance, (like
                dental insurance) is protection against the costs of
                getting sick. People pay a small amount each month to insurance
                companies.  The insurance companies pay most of all the
                bills if a person gets sick. Preventive Dentistry Dental hygienists
              practice preventive dentistry. Preventive dentistry means keeping teeth healthy to prevent
              diseases. Dental hygienists
              teach patients out to care for their teeth they show patients how
              to brush and floss their teeth properly brushing and flossing is
              the key to clean teeth. T to him if the his prevents tooth
              decay and gum disease. Hygienists also
              offer advice on which foods to eat and which foods not to eat. 
              They ask patients to visit dentists regularly. Hygienists apply
              sealants to seal teeth against decay sealants are coatings that,
              the chewing surfaces of teeth they keep disease away from the
              teeth dental hygienists also apply fluoride treatments fluoride is
              a chemical that helps prevents tooth decay. Dental hygienists
              may have other duties as well.  They take X rays of all the
              patients teeth an X ray is a photograph of the inside of a
              person's body.  Dentists study these x-rays for signs of
              tooth decay or disease. Dental
              Hygienists Also Help Dentists Find Cavities Sometimes dental
              hygienists perform general office work they may answer
              telephones or sets up appointments they may  helps clients
              complete dental insurance forms and give advice on individual
              dental insurance plans or group dental insurance plans. Usually a
              receptionist or office manager performs these duties. ©
      2003 Payless Bills, Inc. All Rights