
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 02:29:56 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Cache-Control: private, no-cache, no-store, proxy-revalidate, no-transform
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

UC Berkeley Wellness Guide to Dietary Supplements: Melatonin Home Supplement
      List Melatonin A hormone made in the brain by the pineal gland, melatonin affects our internal body clock and sleep cycles. Levels rise at night during sleep and fall by day. Melatonin is heavily marketed as a sleeping pill, particularly for older people, and for jet lag—but also as a virtual cure-all Claims, purported benefits: Promotes sleep and prevents insomnia; prevents or alleviates jet lag; slows aging; treats or prevents everything from heart disease, cancer, fatigue, anxiety, headaches, and depression to dementia, menopausal symptoms, tinnitus, irritable bowel syndrome, and skin damage from the sun. Evidence: A 2009 review by the Cochrane Collaboration (which evaluates medical treatments) concluded that supplemental melatonin is effective for preventing or reducing jet lag, though not all studies have had positive results. Melatonin appears to be safe for short-term use, it said, and should be recommended to adult travelers flying across five or more time zones, particularly in an easterly direction. There’s fairly good evidence for melatonin’s use in treating insomnia in the elderly and enhancing sleep in healthy people. However, it may help you doze off faster but may not help you stay asleep. For all the other proposed benefits, the evidence is conflicting or inconclusive. The long-term safety and effectiveness of melatonin supplements are unknown. Prolonged use, for instance, may undermine the body’s ability to produce the hormone naturally. Pregnant women and children should not take it. Bottom line: Consider taking melatonin only for jet lag and insomnia—and only for occasional or short-term use. If you have chronic insomnia or another sleep disorder, consult your doctor, who may refer you to a sleep specialist. Don’t take melatonin in hopes of protecting yourself from cancer or the effects of aging—or for any other health matter not related to sleep. There’s no consensus about which doses, schedule, or formulation of melatonin are best for various sleep disorders. Available
                    Now! Wellness Report on Dietary Supplements 2011 Have you
                    ever wondered about the health claims on a bottle of vitamins,
                    herbs,
or some other "natural" remedy? Been curious about how a popular
supplement works—and what the evidence is for its effectiveness and safety?
Are you helping yourself—or throwing your money away—when you buy
a particular supplement? You can find answers to all your questions
                    in our newly updated Dietary Supplements 2011—one of
                    the titles in a series of special Wellness Reports by Dr.
                    John Swartzberg and the editors of the UC Berkeley Wellness
                    Letter . Whether you already
  take supplements or are thinking about it, you will benefit from the expert
                    advice in this concise yet comprehensive 64-page report.
                    It provides current, authoritative
  information on 60 of the most widely used supplements and includes in-depth
                    reviews of supplements recently in the news—from Vitamin
                    D and fish oil to those claiming to enhance your memory and
                    your immune system. With this single convenient resource,
                      you can quickly check the facts behind
    the claims, discover what the latest studies show, learn which products are
                      safe or harmful. Click
  here for free 30-day preview Home | Wellness
            Letter | Subscriber's
            Corner | Foundations
            of Wellness | Subscribe Guide to Supplements | Wellness
          Recipes | Wellness Publications | Site Map | Contact
    