
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:10:15 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 12:15:31 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Clorazepate Dosing eMedTV Sitemap Anxiety Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Anxiety Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Anxiety Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Anxiety Articles Video eMedTV Video Anxiety Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Anxiety Phobias OCD PTSD Generalized Anxiety Disorder Panic Attacks Agoraphobia Social Anxiety Disorder Anxiety Symptoms Paxil Ativan Fluoxetine Effexor XR Doxepin Valium Xanax Clonazepam Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Clorazepate Dosing Clorazepate dosing guidelines take several factors into account, including the condition being treated, your age, and if any other medications are being taken, among other things. For example, when treating partial seizures in adults and adolescents age 12 and over, the recommended dose is 7.5 mg three times daily. For children between ages 9 and 12, clorazepate dosing guidelines call for 7.5 mg twice daily. Clorazepate Dipotassium Information Clorazepate Dosing: An Overview The dose of clorazepate ( Tranxene ® ) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: Your age The medical condition being treated Other medications you may be taking Other medical conditions you may have. As is always the case, do not adjust your clorazepate dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. Clorazepate Dosing for Alcohol Withdrawal The recommended starting dose of clorazepate for alcohol withdrawal is clorazepate 30 mg for the first dose, followed by clorazepate 15 mg two to four times daily -- all within the first 24 hours. For a few days, the clorazepate dosage is usually slowly decreased, and the medication is stopped once you are stable. Only the regular immediate-release clorazepate tablets are recommended for this use. Extended-release tablets should not be used for treating alcohol withdrawal. Clorazepate Dosing for Anxiety The recommended starting dose of clorazepate for the treatment of anxiety is clorazepate 7.5 to 15 mg per day, either taken all at once at bedtime or split up into smaller doses throughout the day. Your healthcare provider may adjust your dose as necessary, increasing it if needed to control your anxiety symptoms or decreasing it if you develop bothersome side effects of clorazepate . Immediate-release clorazepate tablets should be used in these cases when starting the drug and determining the best dose. Once you and your healthcare provider have found the best clorazepate dosage for you, you may be switched to extended-release tablets. People taking clorazepate 7.5 mg (immediate-release) three times daily can be switched to clorazepate 22.5 mg (extended-release) once daily. Those taking clorazepate 3.75 mg (immediate-release) three times daily may be switched to clorazepate 12.25 mg (extended-release) once daily. Clorazepate Dosing Article Continues on Next Page > Advertisement List of references (click here) Tranxene [package insert]. Deerfield, IL: Lundbeck, Inc.;2009 April. Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD Advertisement Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation Clorazepate Side Effects of Clorazepate What Is Clorazepate Used For? Drug Interactions With Clorazepate Precautions and Warnings With Clorazepate Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t