
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 00:23:57 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sun, 01-May-2011 00:23:57 GMT; path=/; httponly
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sun, 01-May-2011 00:23:57 GMT; path=/; httponly
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset="utf-8"

Natural Cough Syrup : Home Remedy : Congestion Relief » Maty's Healthy Products Your cart: 0 items.
    			$ 0.00 Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary All Natural Baby Chest Rub Kids All Natural Cough Syrup All Natural Cough Syrup All Natural Vapor Rub Breathe Better Nasal Ointment ** A leading university study showed buckwheat honey is effective at  improving respiratory function. It found this had a positive effect on  the sleep quality of the participating children as well as their  parents. All Natural Cough Syrup With Antioxidant-Rich Buckwheat Honey This syrup begins with real antioxidant rich buckwheat honey **Many of Mother Nature’s most powerful immune and support ingredients are then added. Unlike traditional over-the-counter cold medicines and homeopathic remedies, this product is food based; there are no harmful side effects. You can have peace of mind as well as a peaceful night’s sleep!** Weight: 4 fl. oz. (118 ml) Ingredients | Usage | Supplement Facts | Where to Buy Can't find Maty's? $8.99 Qty: Recommended Usage Suggested Use: Shake well. Adults take 1 to 2 teaspoons every 4 hours. Children 12 years and under, take 1/2 to 1 teaspoon every 4 hours. Store at room temperature or contents may crystallize. If contents thicken, place container in warm water. Contains no artificial preservatives, color additives or sweeteners; no corn, dairy, wheat, soy or yeast. Caution: This product contains honey and should not be given to infants or any child under one year of age. Why are products with petroleum and menthol hazardous? You might say, Hey, petroleum is a natural product. It's straight from the earth. What is so bad about that? The problem with petroleum jelly is not the medium itself; it is the byproducts that contaminate the substance during manufacturing which are dangerous. Petroleum jelly is only as good as its refining process.  Byproducts produced from refining are PAHs, or polycyclic-aromatic-hydrocarbons, and 1,4 dioxane.  These impurities are known carcinogens (cancer-causing agents), which have been studied around the world for work related exposures.  If the manufacturer is not careful, the refining process may not have removed all these impurities.  Independent test labs have found these carcinogens present in commercial health products like baby shampoos, lipsticks and lotions.  The manufacturing process has not been able to remove all these impurities. One study conducted on the effects of menthol found that it increased mucous formation in the air passages. Infant nasal passages may be too small to handle this increased mucous production and therefore pose a health risk to the infant. Where To Buy | Testimonials | FAQs We at Maty's Healthy Products are dedicated to promoting health and wellness for all with natural, safe cold relief for cough and cold symptoms. We recognize the importance of the body's own natural defense mechanisms and utilize all natural ingredients, carefully selected to help support the immune system. Our therapeutic blends work to enhance the body's healing power not simply cover up the symptoms. At Maty's we've combined modern knowledge with age old healing ingredients such as antioxidant-rich buckwheat honey-- high in vitamins and minerals and known for its restorative properties. There are never any artificial preservatives, color additives or sweeteners, no corn, dairy, wheat, soy or yeast. Maty's Healthy Products are safe and effective--made in the USA using socially responsible practices. Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary © Maty'