<1 year old Pregnant women People who have close contact with pregnant women and young children (including health care workers) If you know that you or family members have been around someone with whooping cough, contact your doctor. Close contact is defined as sharing toys, food, or utensils, face-to-face contact, direct exposure to cough, sneeze, or secretions, or sharing a confined space for over one hour. Healthy Habits All people should practice healthy habits.  Examples include washing hands often, covering coughs and staying home when sick. Click here to learn more about healthy habits. What are the symptoms and signs of whooping cough? Whooping cough has 3 stages: In the first stage there is runny nose, sneezing, a fever, and a mild cough that gets worse over 1-2 weeks. During the second stage people have coughing attacks. At the end of each attack, there can be a high-pitched "whoop" sound. For an example of the sound, click here . This can be a dangerous stage for babies and young children. During coughing attacks they may turn blue and have difficulty breathing. Vomiting and tiredness can follow these cough attacks. This stage usually lasts 1-6 weeks. In the third stage the cough slowly disappears over 2-3 weeks. Many people will have coughing attacks with later colds or other infections. The whooping cough vaccine is very good but not 100% effective. Its protection goes away over time. People who have had whooping cough in the past or who have had a whooping cough vaccine can still get the disease. Their symptoms are different and are usually not as bad as those described above. It is important to think about whooping cough even if you have been vaccinated or had the illness in the past. If you think that you have whooping cough you should contact your doctor. How is whooping cough treated? Antibiotics are used to treat whooping cough. They are most helpful when started during the first stage of the disease. When taken early antibiotics can help with symptoms. If taken later antibiotics may not help with symptoms but can stop the spread of the disease. Information for clinicians about treatment Useful Pertussis Links For the Public California Department of Public Health Pertussis Poster [ English ] [ Spanish ] Tdap Vaccine Information Statement [ English ] [ Spanish ] Medline Whooping Cough Page California Department of Public Health Pertussis Page For Providers Quick Guide for Clinicians Vax Fax American Academy of Pediatrics Guidelines for Clinicians: Caring for Infants with Pertussis CDC Pertussis Vaccination Page California Department of Public Health Pertussis Page SF Dept of Public Health Home | SF City & County Home © Copyright 1998 - 2012, Department of Public Health, City and C