
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 02:14:54 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.16 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
X-Pingback: http://www.aromatherapies.net/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Headaches Treatment | Aromatherapy Massage Aromatherapy Massage Massage Treatments Using Natural Massage Oils Posts Tagged ‘headaches treatment’ Headache Treatment : Acupuncture For Headache Relief Thursday, April 1st, 2010 Migraine and mental tension or stress are two common causes of headaches. Tension related headaches might range from moderate to intense, while migraine related headaches are chronic in nature and their occurrence is more frequent. It persists for longer periods and sometimes, the pain is so severe that it becomes debilitating. Headaches due to migraines are usually triggered by emotional stress. You are also prone to suffer from common types of headaches due to your day-to-day hectic lifestyle and stress. If this occurs frequently, it may lead to chronic headaches. Today, acupuncture therapy is gaining popularity at a very fast rate for the treatment of headaches due to many reasons. Acupuncture therapy involves the insertion of very fine needles at pre-defined, specific points in the body. Usually, when the treatment is provided, you are asked to stay in a seated position as the response to the treatment is better this way when compared to the reclining position. This is done because the blood vessels are in better control in the seated position. At times, it is required to manipulate the insertion points of the needle. The insertion of the needles leads to an increase of the blood flow in those specific areas. In some specific cases, needles are connected to a high frequency current of 100 Hz in order to constrict the blood vessels. It is likely to produce better results in such special cases. It is not always the case that all patients will respond to the acupuncture therapy in the same manner. In some cases, it might be the reverse. Some patients experience instant relief from the pain, while others could find it more painful. Not only does the success of the acupuncture therapy for headaches depend on the therapists, it also depends on the person undergoing the treatment. In some cases, a special technique of acupuncture is used in which there is a shallow inversion of the needles in the upper layer of the skin, just touching the lower layer, without piercing it. It has been observed that many patients get instant relief from headaches using this technique. The acupuncture points for this technique are located at the front portion of the arms and lower legs. If you happen to suffer from severe headaches frequently and opt for acupuncture therapy as a treatment, you must always consider seeking advice from your healthcare provider and not stop taking the medicines prescribed unless advised otherwise. Tags: acupuncture for migraine headache , acupuncture therapy , acupuncture treatments , headache relief , headaches treatment Posted in Treatments | No Comments » Aromatherapy Headaches Treatment Friday, April 24th, 2009 A headache is a simple thing that affects almost everybody, and yet, it can cause a lot of discomfort to people and can sometimes even be debilitating. Fortunately, aromatherapy is very good for treating headaches , and in this post we’ll talk about some aromatherapy based possible treatments. Keep in mind, though that headaches are often symptoms of some other illness in the body (for instance, dehydration) and it’s important to identify and correct whatever is causing the problem. Some of the essential oils that are helpful in treating headaches are chamomile, cinnamon, clove, ginger, jasmine, lavender, lemongrass, marjoram, and patchouli. Peppermint, eucalyptus, and lavender are especially useful in treating headaches. These essential oils can be applied in different ways, and it is important to remember that different methods and oils affect people differently. Different types of headaches also need different treatments. Cold compresses work very well for most people, but some people also prefer hot compresses. You can experiment with both to find out which one suits you. You can make a cold compress with chamomile, eucalyptus, or lavender and apply this to your forehead. Change the compress when the towel reaches room temperature. Migraines can be especially painful, and in some serious cases, can be debilitating. These headaches respond best to a blend of ginger and lavender. You can warm up some water with a few drop of oil in them, and dip your hands in the water for some quick relief. Cluster headaches can often be very painful and difficult to treat. You can use a cold compress to treat these, but also apply a cream made from capsaicin, the substance that gives cayenne peppers their kick. Apply it on your temples (but away from eyes). This cream is available in aromatherapy stores. An aromatherapy bath can often have wondrous effects. Fill up a tub with warm water, and add a few drops of an essential oil of your choice. Let it stand for a few minutes, and then get in the bath. Jasmine and chamomile have relaxing and healing powers effects, and can help relieve the stresses that cause the headache. If you’re out at work, and don’t have the time to do any of these, then you can dab a few drops of essential oil onto a handkerchief. Keep taking whiffs from this handkerchief to help relieve the headache . If you have the time, you can make perform an aromatherapy massage for your head. Use a carrier oil that suits you, and mix the essential oil into this and get someone to softly massage it into your temples or scalp. Remember that this may not suit some people. Tags: aromatherapy for headaches , aromatherapy migraine treatment , essential oils for headaches , headache relief , headaches treatment Posted in Treatments | No Comments » Recent Posts Aromatherapy Essential Oils for Headaches Fragrance Oil Lamps | Scented Oil Lamps Bitter Almond Essential Oil and Extract Chocolate Essential Oil | Chocolate Fragrance Oil Musk Essential Oil | Musk Aromatherapy Archives July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 Categories Acupuncture Aromatherapy Aromatherapy Oils aromatherapy skin care Benefits Home Remedies Massage Therapy Treatments Tags acupressure acupressure massage acupuncture for weight loss acupuncture therapy acupuncture treatments anise oil uses Aromatherapy aromatherapy acne skin care aromatherapy aging skin treatment aromatherapy benefits aromatherapy essential oils aromatherapy for hair care aromatherapy for headaches aromatherapy massage aromatherapy natural skin care aromatherapy oil Aromatherapy Oils aromatherapy pain relief aromatherapy pimple treatment aromatherapy products aromatherapy skin care aromatherapy stress relief aromatherapy treatment aromatherapy uses aromathrapy for hair loss treatment back pain relief back pain treatment benefits of massage therapy best massage oils essential oils for pregnancy essential oils for wrinkles essential oil uses hair loss remedies headache relief indigestion treatment infertility cure infertility natural treatment massage essential oils massage oils massage techniques Massage Therapy relieve back pain treatment for mouth ulcers uses of aromatherapy uses of aromatherapy oils Search for: Meta Log in Entries RSS C