Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery & 9 Ways to Avoid or Reverse It Unbiased. Informed. Current. Obesity Surgery Topics Surgery Types Payment Life After Find a Surgeon Share | FREE Quarterly Newsletter Bariatric Surgery Is It Right for You? Bariatric Treatment Overview Types of Bariatric Surgery How to Choose the Right Bariatric Doctors Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Obesity Cause & Effect Causes of Obesity Obesity and Genetics Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Cause and Effect of Obesity Obesity Health Problems Effects of Teen Obesity Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Complications of Gastric Bypass Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Gastric Lap Band Procedure Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Other Effective Procedures Gastric Sleeve Surgery Duodenal Switch Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Diet Before & After Surgery Bariatric Diet Bariatric Eating Techniques Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Financing & Insurance Financing Bariatric Surgery Unsecured Medical Loans Bariatric Surgery Insurance Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad Cost of Bariatric Surgery Life After Surgery Life after Weight Loss Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Weight Loss Surgery Support Groups Online Weight Loss Support Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Challenges Bariatric Surgery Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks Weight Gain after Bariatric Surgery Blood Clot Symptoms Dumping Syndrome Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources What's New? We Proudly Support... Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery & 9 Ways to
Avoid/Reverse It Reviewed by: Peter F. Rovito, MD, FACS Weight gain after gastric bypass
surgery is not guaranteed, but
there’s a good chance that it will occur to some extent. Find out how
  likely you are to experience it and how to reduce your chances below… How
much does the average patient gain back? Predictors
of weight gain after surgery 9 ways to avoid or reverse weight regain Average Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery The average excess weight lost following laparoscopic
gastric
bypass
surgery is almost 70% (in other words, at 100 pounds
overweight the
average patient loses almost 70 pounds). And many patients have seen
results of well over 80%. "Most patients keep at least 50% of their excess weight off
after 10 years." But once you reach your low point (called your “nadir”), will
you start
heading in the opposite direction? Unfortunately, it's very likely. As many as 80% of patients eventually gain a little weight
back after
hitting their nadir. 1 In
addition, the more time that passes following
surgery, the more
likely patients are to gain some weight back. 2 On
average, patients who gain weight back see about 8% of their old weight
return within 5 years of surgery. 3 So if a patient
is one of the 80% who gains weight back, was 100 pounds overweight and
lost 70 pounds from surgery, on average she can expect to gain back
about 8 pounds. The good news is that most patients (about 80% of morbidly
obese and
65% of super
obese ) keep at least 50% of their excess weight off after
10 years. 2 Back
to top of Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Predictors of
Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery YOUR Weight Loss Journey Help visitors like you by sharing your advice related to this page or other topics ... Did
    YOU experience weight gain after bariatric surgery? Several factors make you more likely to lose less weight or
gain weight
back following gastric bypass surgery. Addressing and preparing for
these factors ahead of time can make all the difference… Your weight
prior to surgery – losing weight before gastric bypass
surgery sounds pointless… after all, isn’t that what the surgery is for? The fact is that shedding some extra pounds before surgery can have a
significant impact. Not only will it reduce the risk of gastric bypass
complications, but the lower your body
mass index (BMI) prior to surgery the
more weight you are likely to lose and the less likely you will be to
experience weight gain after gastric bypass surgery. Alcohol or
drug abuse – not surprisingly, substance abusers
are more
likely to revert back to their old habits following surgery. Plus, some patients begin to abuse alcohol and drugs after bariatric surgery, in effect, replacing one addition with another. In
addition, drinking alcohol and taking certain drugs can lead to
significant bariatric
surgery complications . Lack of a support system among family, friends and a weight loss surgery support group and lack of ongoing lifestyle counseling through a hospital or doctor based support group. Psychological
state following surgery - Increased food
urges and decreased feelings of well-being following surgery are
directly
correlated with weight gain after gastric bypass surgery. 1 Note that these issues are relatively uncommon. For most, food urges
and feelings of well being are either partially or completely resolved
after surgery. Back
to top of Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery 9 ways to avoid or
reverse weight gain after gastric
bypass surgery While a little bit of weight gain after gastric bypass surgery
is
likely to occur after hitting your nadir (lowest weight), there are many things
you can do to keep
the weight regain to a minimum... "The percentage of patients who keep off at least half of
their excess weight is 15% higher for those [with a lower
body mass index]." Avoiding Weight Regain Stop binge
eating well before surgery – Research suggests that
patients
with binge eating disorder (BED) tend to lose less weight after
surgery. Seeking treatment for BED prior to surgery will make you less
likely
to experience weight gain after gastric bypass surgery. 5 Lose as much
weight as possible prior to surgery - The percentage of
patients who keep off at least half of their excess weight 10 years
after surgery is almost 15% higher for the morbidly obese (BMI between
40 and 49.9) than for the super obese (BMI of 50 or more). 2 Address
alcohol and drug abuse problems to prevent weight gain
after
gastric bypass surgery and avoid gastric bypass
complications. The topic of alcohol and drug use will come up in your
psychological evaluation
prior to surgery approval, so be prepared to be honest with your
psychologist and work with him or her to get any problems under control. Follow your
bariatric doctors’ advice to the letter – this may sound
obvious, but you’d be surprised how many patients follow their doctors’
orders for the first year or two then slowly start to falter. Effective
surgeons are not only good in the operating room but are also
trained
and experienced in helping patients keep the weight off long-term. Address food
urges and lack of well being if you start to experience
them after surgery - If you begin to experience increased
food urges or
your mental state becomes unstable following surgery, talk with your
bariatric doctors immediately. Patients who experience these feelings
and don’t address them usually gain more weight back. Between meetings
with your surgeon and psychologist along with regular discussions with
your weight
loss surgery support group , you will overcome these issues. "Patients who actively participate in support groups have
about a 10% lower body mass index than patients who go it alone." Continue to
get nutritional counseling – patients who continue to
monitor their diet with the help of a professional have better
long-term results. 6 Good
bariatric doctors partner with or will refer you to a
nutritionist
or dietitian, so you should not need to find one on your own. The key
is to never stop seeing them. The importance of this cannot be understated and needs to be repeated: the key is to never stop seeing them . Review the following pages for more about
proper diet and eating habits… Diet
after gastric bypass surgery (during
recovery) Long
term diet for gastric bypass Bariatric
eating – how you eat vs what you eat Join and
participate in a good bariatric
surgery support group – patients who
actively
participate in support groups have about a 10% lower body mass
index than patients who do go it alone. 7 Participation in an online weight loss support groups or forums is helpful, but it doesn't replace the need for the kind of one-on-one or in-person group support mechanism which every bariatric surgery patient will need for the rest of his or her life to maintain and maximize the benefits of the surgery.  If your doctor or hospital doesn't provide a support group, START ONE.  (However, in choosing a bariatric surgeon , it is preferable to choose one who is affiliated with a bariatric surgery program or support group.) Reversing Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Even if you stay on top of the points above, there’s still a
  chance
  that you could experience weight gain after gastric bypass surgery.
  Discuss the following two options with your surgeon if you’re doing all
  the right things and the pounds continue to come back... Finding a Surgeon Not all bariatric surgeons perform these corrective procedures. If your surgeon does not and recommends surgical intervention, ask for a referral to a bariatric surgeon who has experience with these specific procedures. You can also click here to access our directory of qualified surgeons in your area. Give the surgeon(s) in your area a call to find out if they perform any of these procedures. If they do, schedule a free one-on-one consultation to discuss. Pouch
connection size - The connection between your pouch
and small
intestines (also called the “gastrojejunal anastomoses” or "stoma") gets bigger
following surgery for some patients. If your surgeon determines that
this has happened to you, having the connection tightened can get you
back
on the right track. 8 The ROSE technique and endoscopic injection of a sclerosant options discussed below appear to be the emerging "best options" for this procedure. Talk about
having your pouch resized/tightened – if your
pouch has
stretched over time, having it reduced can also improve weight loss. 9 Two techniques have shown good results: Endoscopic
  injection of a “sclerosant” (sodium morrhuate) to shrink
  the
  stomach. Your surgeon may need to administer the injections 2 to 3
  times before determining whether the process was a success. One study
  showed that 64% of patients lost at least 75% of their weight regain
  after their injections.
  The only complication that occurred was symptoms of stomal
    stenosis that required the stomach to be stretched back out with the use
  of a special balloon. 10 Another study revealed that out of 231 patients who underwent 575 sclerotherapy sessions: 13 12 months from the last sclerotherapy session, weight regain stabilized in 78% of the patients Patients who underwent two or three sclerotherapy sessions had much higher rates of weight regain stabilization than those who underwent a single session The average sclerotherapy patient lost 10 pounds in six months There were 'high responders' who lost an average of 26 pounds, which was 61% of the weight regain Those who had higher regain after bariatric surgery responded better to sclerotherapy The procedure does carry a low risk of minor complications including bleeding (2.5% of patients), abdominal pain (0.5%) and small ulcers (1%) along with a relatively high risk of blood pressure elevation (11%). Due to the risk of blood pressure elevation, patients with cardiac risk factors should most likely stay away from this procedure. ROSE technique - also
  performed endoscopically, the ROSE procedure places tissue anchors to
  shrink the size of your stomach. Several studies have shown it
  to cause weight loss in gastric bypass patients. 11 One meta analysis
  (study combining the results of several other studies) showed that on
  average 88% of patients stopped regaining weight and that 96% of
  patients had lost 18% of their excess weight six months after the
  procedure. 12 See our ROSE Procedure section for more information. StomaphyX - this endoscopic procedure is similar to the ROSE technique but uses a special device to create permanent folds by suctioning and fastening the lining of the pouch. Unlike the ROSE technique, StomaphyX is unable reduce the size of the stoma. See our StomaphyX Procedure page for more information. For more information about each of these options and for one additional alternative, see our Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery page. Patient Experiences Click here to read about many  patients' experiences with weight gain after bariatric surgery . While you're there, please share your own experiences as well! Back
    to top of Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery New! Comments Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below. For additional research, search for your topic... Also see... Schedule a free  seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area Bariatric
       Diet Exercise after gastric bypass surgery Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery Back
to Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery Overview/Analysis Back
       to Bariatric Surgery Source Home Page from Weight Gain After Gastric
       Bypass Surgery References for Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Odom J, et al.  Behavioral Predictors of Weight
      Regain after Bariatric Surgery. Obesity Surgery
      DOI 10.1007/s11695-009-9895-6. Nicolas V. Christou, MD, PhD, Didier Look, MD, and Lloyd D.
      MacLean, MD, PhD. Weight Gain After Short- and Long-Limb Gastric Bypass
      in Patients Followed for Longer Than 10 Years. Ann Surg. 2006 November;
      244(5): 734–740. Magro DO, et al.  Long-term Weight Regain after
      Gastric Bypass: A 5-year Prospective Study. Obesity Surgery Volume 18,
      Number 6 / June, 2008 pgs 648-651. Averbukh Y, et al.  Depression Score Predicts
      Weight Loss following Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass. Obesity Surgery Volume
      13, Number 6 / December, 2003 pgs 833-836. Sallet PC, et al.  Eating Behavior as a Prognostic
      Factor for Weight Loss after Gastric Bypass. Obesity Surgery Volume 17,
      Number 4 / April, 2007 pgs 445-451. Faria SL, et al.  Nutritional Management of Weight
      Regain After Bariatric Surgery. Obesity Surgery. DOI
      10.1007/s11695-008-9610-z Orth WS, et al.  Support Group Meeting Attendance
      is Associated with Better Weight Loss. Obesity Surgery Volume 18,
      Number 4 / April, 2008 pgs 391-394. Thompson, C.1; Slattery, J.; Bundga, M.; Lautz, D. Peroral
      endoscopic reduction of dilated gastrojejunal anastomosis after
      Roux-en-Y gastric bypass: a possible new option for patients with
      weight regain. Surgical Endoscopy, Volume 20, Number 11, November 2006
      , pp. 1744-1748(5) Muller MK, et al.  Laparoscopic Pouch Resizing and
      Redo of Gastro-jejunal Anastomosis for Pouch Dilatation following
      Gastric Bypass. Obesity Surgery Volume 15, Number 8 / September, 2005
      pgs 1089-1095. Weight gain after bariatric surgery as a result of a large
      gastric stoma: endotherapy with sodium morrhuate may prevent the need
      for surgical revision Marc F. Catalano, Goran Rudic, Alfred J. Anderson, Thomas Y. Chua Gastrointestinal Endoscopy - August 2007 (Vol. 66, Issue 2, Pages
      240-245, DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2006.06.061) Treatment of weight regain after gastric bypass surgery
      when using a new endoscopic platform: initial experience and early
      outcomes (with video) Daniel K. Mullady, David B. Lautz, Christopher C. Thompson Gastrointestinal Endoscopy - September 2009 (Vol. 70, Issue 3, Pages
      440-444, DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2009.01.042) UC San Diego Medical Center Press Release: Data Shows
      Incision-free Procedure Reverses Weight Regain after Gastric Bypass
      Surgery. June 2009.  Available at: http://health.ucsd.edu/news/2009/6-29-rose-procedure.htm . Helwick, Caroline. Sclerotherapy Stabilizes Weight Regain After Gastric Bypass. Gastroenterology & Endoscopy News. Dec 2011, Volume 62:12. [Last editorial review/modification of this page: 2/26/2011] Disclaimer: The information contained in this web site is provided for general informational purposes only. It is not intended as nor should be relied upon as medical advice.  Rather, it is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her existing physician(s). Before you use any of the information provided in the site, you should seek the advice of a qualified medical, dietary, fitness or other appropriate professional. In the spirit of full
disclosure: We proudly support this
website through advertising and affiliate ("aff") marketing. In other words,
when you click on a link that takes you outside of this website, we
sometimes earn a small commission. These small commissions allow us to keep
the site up and running and to continue offering it completely free of
charge to you. Rest assured that all content, recommendations and
advice are created before, and are independent of, any sponsorship or
affiliate relationship. Click
here for more info. Use right scroll bar to view entire site map Ask a Weight Loss Surgery Question Surgery Q & A Click Here Our community gives and receives real-life, honest and constructive feedback and advice. Sponsored Section The Bariatric Examiner: Your FREE Quarterly Newsletter Sign up now to receive important bariatric surgery news and research updates... Email Name Then We promise to keep your information private . The Bariatric Surgery Blog: FREE real-time updates Chose your favorite RSS reader below to stay up-to-date on important new content... Subscribe To The Bariatric Surgery Blog Get the BMI Calculator widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info ) WLS Blogs We Like Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Girl Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Life Coach Lap band blog posts by the Bandit Lap band surgery blog posts by Lap Band Groupie Bariatric Girl Bari Bits Lap Band Groupie at The Sweet Spot Lonicera's LapBand & Other Stories Waning Woman Who Hid the Donuts? Have a WLS blog? Contact us! Research on Obesity Obesity United States Statistics - Adults Child Obesity Statistics & Teenage Obesity Statistics How to Calculate BMI (body mass index) Free BMI Calculator (right margin of page) BMI Calculator Chart How to Calculate Body Fat Percentage Causes of Obesity (page focuses on causes) Cause and Effect of Obesity (page focuses on effect) Teen Obesity Effects Obesity and Genetics Set Point Theory Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Treatments for Obesity Obesity Discrimination Obesity Health Problems Obese and Pregnant Bariatric Treatment Is Bariatric Surgery Right for You? Choosing
 the Right Bariatric Doctors & Bariatric Weight Loss Center Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area (city/state/ country search) Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Canada Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks (mortality) Bariatric Surgery Complications (incl. risks, complications & side effects) Dumping Syndrome Blood Clot Symptoms, Prevention and Treatment Gastric Bypass Side Effects Gastric Bypass Surgery Deaths & Risks of Gastric Bypass Complications of Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Lap Band Erosion Lap Band Surgery Failure Types of Weight Loss Surgery Types of Bariatric Surgery - Overview & Comparison Bariatric Surgery Video Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery - Analysis & Cost Gastric Lap Band Procedure Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Lap Band Surgery Results Lap Band vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Duodenal Switch (Bileopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal Switch - BPD/DS) Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Experimental Weight Loss Surgery EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner Implantable Maestro System TOGA bariatric surgery system Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction (TGVR) Gastric Bypass Revision ROSE procedure StomaphyX Procedure Conversion to lap band surgery Lengthen the Roux limb Conversion to duodenal switch Bariatric Diet Bariatric Diet Guidelines Before & After Surgery Bariatric Eating - What vs How to Eat Free Online Diet Journal Reviews Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Alcohol After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric Surgery Recovery Weight & Health After Obesity Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Relationships After Bariatric Surgery Diet After Bariatric Surgery Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Support In-person Bariatric Surgery Support Online Weight Loss Support Free Diet Journal Reviews Top Bariatric Surgery Forum Options:
Gastric Bypass Forum, Lap Band Forums & Forums for Other Procedures Support from Family & Friends After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Bariatric Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Affordable Tummy Tuck Thigh Lift Plastic Surgery Financing Weight Loss Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Loan & Plastic Surgery Loans (Unsecured Medical Loans) Secured Medical Loans Cost of Bariatric Surgery Financing Bariatric Surgery & Getting the Costs Down Weight Loss Surgery Tax Considerations Bariatric Surgery Insurance (incl. DS, VBG, gastric bypass & lap band insurance) Health Insurance Appeal Letter & the Appeals Process Medicare Bariatric Surgery Coverage Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad (medical travel / medical tourism) Free weight loss surgery (charity care & government assistance) Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery BSS Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery How to Get the Most Out of Bariatric Surgery Source What's New? About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources Weight Loss Surgeon Directory Pages United States Weight Loss Surgeons Canada (Bariatric Surgery Canada) Alabama (Alabama Weight Loss Surgery) Alaska (Alaska Weight Loss Surgeon) Arizona (Bariatric
      Surgery Arizona) Arkansas (Weight Loss
      Surgery in Arkansas) California
      - Northern (Northern
        California Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Bay Area - Alta Bates California
      - Southern (Bariatric
        Surgery Southern California) Bariatric Surgery Los Angeles - Dr. Korman Weight Loss Surgery Los Angeles - CBGSA Colorado (Colorado
      Weight Loss Surgery) Connecticut (Weight Loss
      Surgery Connecticut) Delaware (Weight Loss Surgery in Delaware) District of Columbia (Washington D.C Weight Loss Surgery) Florida (Bariatric Surgeons Florida) Georgia (Bariatric Surgery in Georgia) Hawaii (Hawaii Weight Loss Surgeon) Idaho (Idaho Weight Loss Surgery) Illinois (Illinois Bariatric Surgery) Indiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Indiana) Iowa (Iowa Bariatric Surgery Clinics) Kansas (Weight Loss Surgery in Kansas) Kentucky (Weight Loss Surgery in Kentucky) Louisiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Louisiana) Maine (Weight Loss Surgery in Maine) Maryland (Bariatric Surgery Maryland) Massachusetts (Bariatric Surgery in Massachusetts) Michigan (Bariatric Surgery Michigan) Minnesota (Bariatric Surgery Minnesota) Mississippi (Weight Loss Surgery in Mississippi) Missouri (Weight Loss Surgery Missouri) Montana (Weight Loss Surgery in Montana) Nebraska (Weight Loss Surgery in Nebraska) Nevada (Weight Loss Surgery in Nevada) Gastric Bypass Surgery Las Vegas & Lap Band Surgery Las Vegas - Dr. Teng New Hampshire (Bariatric Surgery in New Hampshire) New Jersey (Bariatric Surgery New Jersey) Weight Loss Surgery New Jersey - Dr. Feteiha New Mexico (New Mexico Weight Loss Surgery) New York (New York Weight Loss Surgery) New York Bariatric Surgery - The Center for Metabolic & Weight Loss Surgery North Carolina (North Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) North Dakota (North Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Ohio (Bariatric Surgery Ohio) Oklahoma (Bariatric Surgery in Oklahoma) Weight Loss Surgery in Oklahoma - Dr. Gornichec Oregon (Oregon Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Oregon - Dr. Patterson Pennsylvania (Pennsylvania Weight Loss Surgery) Rhode Island (Rhode Island Weight Loss Surgery) South Carolina (South Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) South Dakota (South Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Tennessee (Bariatric Surgery Tennessee) Tennessee Gastric Bypass Surgeons - Dr. Boyce Texas (Weight Loss Surgery in Texas) Weight Loss Surgery Houston Lap Band Surgery Dallas TX - Dr. Kim Bariatric Surgeons Dallas - Dr. Kuhn Houston Bariatric Surgery - Dr. St. Laurent Utah (Utah Weight Loss Surgery) Vermont (Weight Loss Surgery in Vermont) Virginia (Weight Loss Surgeon in Virginia) Washington (Bariatric Surgery Washington) Washington, DC (Washington D.C Bariatric Surgery) West Virginia (West Virginia Weight Loss Surgery) Wisconsin (Bariatric Surgery Wisconsin) Wyoming (Wyoming Weight Loss Surgery) Home | Types of Bariatric Surgery | Qualification for Bariatric Treatment | Financing Bariatric Surgery & Insurance Life After Weight Loss Surgery | Find a Bariatric Surgeon Copyright Â© 2008-2012  Bariatric Surgery Source | Privacy Policy | Forum Policy | Advertising  Policy | Disclaimer | Advertise Resources | About Us | Advisory Council | Contact Us | RSS This site complies with the HONcod