Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alternative Migraine Therapies / AlternativeWatch / InformationXchange / StuartXchange FEVERFEW PROMISING IN REDUCING 
    MIGRAINE FREQUENCY VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS IN MIGRANE THERAPY COENZME Q10 IN MIGRAINE PROPHYLAXIS COENZYME Q10 IN MIGRAINE 
          PROPHYLAXIS THERAPY In an open-label trial, researchers at the Cleveland Clinic 
          Headache Center tested coenzyme Q10 for migraine prophylaxis through 
          a possible role of disturbances in mitochondrial energy metabolism in 
          migraine headches. Migraineurs were given a supplement dose of 150mg/day. 
          61% had a greater than 50% reduction in number of days with migraines. 
          No significant adverse effects were noted. Controlled studies are needed 
          to confirm the findings. Coenzyme Q10 for Parkinson's 
          Disease Internal Medicine News May 1, 2003 MAGNESIUM AND RIBOFLAVIN 
        IN MIGRAINE THERAPY Magnesium and riboflavin supplements are useful options for migraine patients 
        who want "natural" therapy, Dr. Judy Lane said at the annual 
        meeting of the Colorado chapter of the American College of Physicians 
        - American Society of Internal Medicine. The supplements appeal to many patients because they have a high 
          degree of safety and are available over the counter at comparatively 
          low cost. In randomized trials, 60% of patients given megadose riboflavin 
          (200 mg of vitamin B2 twice daily) had a 50% reduction in headache frequency. 
          As is typical in headache studies, 15% of patients who were on placebo 
          had a similar degree of improvement. Most, but not all, of the small clinical trials to date using magnesium 
          also have shown good results, Dr. Lane said. The dosing is typically 
          400-600 mg/day of chelated magnesium. The rationale for magnesium therapy 
          stems from interesting work in the last year or two showing that roughly 
          one-third of migraine patients have low brain levels of magnesium during 
          the interictal period between migraine headaches. Low levels are thought 
          to contribute to irritability of the brain's pain generator mechanism, 
          which figures prominently in migraine's pathogenesis, the neurologist 
          explained. There is no reliable noninvasive method to measure brain magnesium 
          and it is unclear how well blood and brain levels correlate. The normal 
          range for plasma magnesium is 0.6 to 1.0 mmol/L. Vitamin Supplements May Have 
          Role in Migraine Therapy Internal Medicine News. Clinical 
          Rounds. April 15, 2000. p41 Bruce Jancin, Denver Bureau FEVERFEW IN MIGRAINE 
          THERAPY Feverfew is a promising herbal remedy for reducing the frequency of 
          migraines, Dr. Edzard Ernst reported at an international conference 
          on the efficacy and safety of medicinal herbs. The conclusion was based 
          on a systemic review of clinical trials of feverfew (Chrysanthemum parthenium) 
          in patients with migraine. Three of five trials showed feverfew 
          to be an effective agent for migraine prophylaxis. However, the analysis 
          did not show that the herb relieves symptoms during a migraine attack. In one study, treatment with feverfew 
          was associated with a significant 24% reduction in migraine frequency 
          and with significant decrease in nausea and vomiting. Adverse effects were generally mild 
          and transient: abdominal pain, a bitter taste in the mouth, contact 
          dermatitis, diarrhea, fatigue, gastrointestinal discomfort, inflammation 
          of the lip or tongue, joint pain, loss of taste, ulcerations in the 
          mouth, nausea or vomiting, and tension. Oral symptoms were reduced when 
          the herb was taken in capsule form. The active ingredient appear to be 
          parthenolides, which inhibit platelet aggregation, inhibit serotonin 
          release, and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis. Because of its antiplatelet 
          effect, it should be avoided by patients taking antiplatelet drugs. It is contraindicated in children younger 
          than 12, pregnant and lactating women, and people with known hypersensitivity 
          to its constituents, especially the chrysanthemum plant from which the 
          herb is derived. Feverfew Looks Promising For 
          Reducing Migraine Frequency Internal Medicine News. Clinical 
          Rounds.