
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2012 02:56:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 18 Apr 2012 02:56:21 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

What's On Calendar | The Haven Accessibility Page Navigation Skip to Content Main navigation Style sheets must be enabled to view this page as it was intended. Home About Us Healthcare Professionals Research Media Contact Us Search this site: How We Can Help You Therapies What people say Ask our nurses Where we do it Come and try us out What's On / Calendar If someone you care about has breast cancer Lymphoedema Useful Links Useful Videos: Haven at Home How You Can Support Us Why we need your help Donate today Events Fundraising Events Organise your own event Challenge yourself Volunteer at The Haven Get your company involved Leave a gift in your Will Trusts and Foundations Shop Thank You What's On Calendar Please ensure you book your place with Reception so that we can notify you if we have to cancel or change a class. Ear Acupuncture at The Yorkshire Haven 30 April 2012 - 12:00pm - 1:00pm Led by Rebecca Hunter. Acupuncture is an ancient system of healing originating from China. Auricular (or ear) acupuncture is a gentle but powerfully calming treatment, resourcing the body, mind and spirit. more » Ear Acupuncture at The Hereford Haven 30 April 2012 - 1:00pm - 2:00pm Led by Christopher Woodward, ear acupuncture can help reduce a range of symptoms including hot flushes and night sweats, insomnia, anxiety, depression. more » « Return to Calendar A-Z of therapies From acupuncture to yoga, we have a wide range of therapies available to help you feel better. Find out more Visitor stories Paola Domizio was diagnosed with breast cancer in November 2008 aged 48. She was told about The Haven by her Breast Care Nurse. Read her story Haven at Home Live to far from a Haven? We have produced films and audio podcasts of some of our therapies which you can access in the comfort of your home. Find out more What's on Our online calendar enables you to keep up to date with our programme of seminars, group and classes. View calendar How We Can Help You Therapies What people say Ask our nurses Where we do it Come and try us out What's On / Calendar If someone you care about has breast cancer Lymphoedema Useful Links Useful Videos: Haven at Home Feedback Site map Privacy Policy Disclaimer Find Us On Facebook On Twitter On YouTube Website by Polemark ©2012 The Haven is the workin