Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://hypnosisme.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.1.1
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Should | Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Find out all about Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy and the natural benefits it can bring to your life. RSS Feed Home About Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Tag: Should 13 Dec/10 Covert Hypnosis – Why You Should be Using These Techniques by Darren under Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy covert hypnosis is the art of controlling the mind of somebody else and therefore their actions. It was first created by a great psychiatrist named Milton H Erickson he was the absolute master and expert in his field. Covert Hypnosis is also known as conversational hypnosis. With the techniques taught by the famous Igor Ledochowski of international acclaim, you will learn how to change the opinion of any one engaged in a conversation with you to suit you, to control any one you come into contact with and you will command respect and admiration of who you desire. Anyone you come into contact with will not be able to help liking you and trusting you. Covert hypnosis is not hard to pick up and implement with people you know or complete strangers. As you can imagine to learn this tool is to have great power and is to be used wisely. This technique can be and is practiced by businessmen and women, salesmen and women and all sorts of entrepreneurs, and people are using these techniques more than what you think. It is primarily used to build a rapport and command a degree of respect which attracts the listener to you. Upon using the techniques in power of conversational hypnosis you will achieve success were you please and will be able to teach others the same techniques. You will be able to attain peak confidence in yourself when you most need it or when ever you need it. Now there is a well known misconception or stereotype that people who do not know about covert hypnosis have and that is that it is some kind of magic or witch like spell, this is not the case at all, the truth is that it is a method of tapping in to the subconscious mind of the listener without them realising. This does not mean that they have not given consent it just means that they do not realise at which point they go under the hypnosis and they are in your control. The possibilities applying the methods taught in the power of conversational hypnosis program are truly quite limitless as you learn how to tweak your technique wisdom, powers of perception and intelligence to achieve your desires. Covert hypnosis gives you the ability to place the subject under your control in a regular conversation and take advantage of the subjects state to achieve what you desire.Any one whos walking by or looking at your conversation with the subject would just percieve you to be having a normal discussion. The traits exhibited by the subjects are usually as those exhibited by those in a regular hypnosis. One great thing about this is that the person is completely unaware of what you are doing. Covert , Hypnosis , Should , techniques , These , Using Leave a Comment more... 6 Sep/10 When You Should Use Hypnosis To Reduce Your Problem by Darren under Hypnotise your self People can find themselves looking for hypnosis therapy for a number of reasons. Perhaps you have a bad habit such as smoking that you are trying to break. Or maybe you want to loose weight, tried all the diets and nothing has helped. Another reason may be because of a relationship breakdown, or jealousy in a relationship. All these are common reasons as to why someone may be looking for a hypnotherapist to help them with their everyday issues. Hypnotherapy is not a new concept, infact; it has been around since the beginning of time. Some animals put themselves in a trance like state when they go into hibernation and are able to go without nourishment for long periods of time. Hypnotherapy became more understood by physicians around the 19th century. It is true to say that not everyone can be hypnotised. Research shows that people with the ability to perceive what is going on around them and recognise changes in their own awareness may block themselves from being helped through therapy. Others can find that they are easily hypnotised. This is because they are more able to enter a trance like state and respond better to suggestions through their subconciousness. Hypnotherapy has also been tested along with modern medicines to analyse people’s different responses to treatment. On a number of occasions, groups of people who are receiving the same medical treatment have been separated and hypnosis therapy has been given to one section of the group to see what affects may occur. More often than not, those who received hypnosis therapy felt less pain and anxiety and made a speedier recovery, which in turn, saved costs on medical treatment. It is unfortunate that most people’s first introduction to hypnotherapy is stage hypnosis which gives the idea that hypnotherapy is where someone puts you under a spell and controls your movements causing you to perform in front of an audience some kind of bizarre act. This is not what hypnotherapy is all about. When a person looks to a hypnotherapist to help them with their problem, although they will put in a very relaxed state, they are always going to be aware of what is happening around them. Hypnotherapy has helped lots of people with various different conditions, psychological as well as having a positive effect on their behaviour and has been effectively demonstrated through medical research. Hypnosis has helped people overcome common and uncommon issues that people are faced with in their everyday lives, offering a release from pressures and conditions that seem to have a hold over them either by bad habits such as smoking or psychological issues such as jealousy. Whatever the issue is that you may be facing, hypnosis can have a positive effect and help you overcome these issues. Hypnosis , Problem , Reduce , Should Leave a Comment more... Recommended Products Categories Get hypnotised Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Hypnosis confidence Hypnosis nail biting Hypnosis sport Hypnotise me Hypnotise your self Ibs hypnosis Public speaking hypnosis Blogroll Cure IBS with hypnosis Hypnosis downloads Hypnosis weight loss Presuader hypnosis Raw hypnosis Self Hypnosis Stop Panic Attacks Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Other Interest Recent Posts The Answers to Your Concerns About Conversational Hypnosis Day to Day Activities Where You Can Use Conversational Hypnosis How to Sell More by Using Conversational Hypnosis Covert or Conversational Hypnosis Explained Quit Smoking Hypnosis to Stop Smoking Archives November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 Tags Biting Confidence Conversational Cures Fear Hipnotise yourself Hypnosis Hypnotherapy Hypnotise Hypnotised Hypnotise me Loss Mind Nail Public Quit Self SelfHypnosis Smoking Solution Speaking Stop Weight Work Copyright © 1996-2010 Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy. All rights reserved. iDream theme by Templates Next | Powered by W