
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 14:58:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Walkfit Orthotics Walkfit Orthotics It is important to understand a little about the mechanics of walking to explain how Walkfit orthotics work.
When we take a step our heel should land at almost 45 degrees, with a slight inclination toward the outside of the
heel of a few degrees. When we do this our weight is distributed evenly towards the outside of the foot. Problems start to occur when our weight is not distributed evenly with each step we take. Walkfit orthotics are
designed to help change the alignment of your feet so that you can again start to evenly distribute your weight as
you walk along. This can help to relieve foot pain and also prevent pain developing in other areas in the
future. Click Here To Visit The Walkfit Website As the body's weight shifts with each step we take our feet act as our main shock absorber. They
do this through a process in which they bear the weight of the body by allowing our feets arches to flatten
slightly when we take a step. Problems can start when our arches fail to flatten at all. A person who has a high arch may find it does not flatten properly as they walk, this can mean their feet absorb
shock poorly. As they walk their weight lands only on their heel and toes, because weight is not absorbed well the
shock of each step can radiate through the leg to other joints. as time goes on this can create problems in the
knee, hips and lower back. Walkfit orthotics can help to alleviate this problem. They have been shown to effectively absorb shock and with
each step help to evenly distribute weight. In doing this Walkfit orthotics can help to relieve pain in both the
feet and in the lower body. Another issue that Walkfit orthotics can address is if the arch of the foot flattens too much as we walk. When
this happens our weight can be distributed too much towards the inside of the foot. As well as knee and lower back
pain this can also lead to the development of hammer toe or bunions. To address this problem Walkfit orthotics use an insert with an increased arch to help distribute weight
laterally. To properly support the arch Walkfit orthotics come with three custom arch inserts. This will help to
redistribute your weight around the foot as you walk as well as helping to realign the bones in the foot. Walkfit orthotics are available in eleven different sizes for both men and women. They are an inexpensive but
effective way to help overcome both foot and lower body pain. If you check out their website you will discover they
have helped thousands of people to achieve lasting freedom from debilitating pain. So if you suffer with foot, knee
or lower back pain we recommend you try them out. WalkFit Walkfit Platinum Walkfit Reviews Walkfit Inserts Walkfit Orthotics Walkfit Shoe Does Walkfit Work? Buy Walkfit Foot Orthotics Orthotics And Plantar Fasciitis Custom Fit Orthotics Ball Of Foot Pain Site Map Walkfit Copyright 2011 www.Walkfitreview.com Note: The o