<65 years) and their carers. The program involves a key worker providing information and support as well as arranging social events as requested by participants. The National Ageing Research Institute has been engaged to evaluate the impact of the program on wellbeing and goal achievement outcomes for the 13 people with dementia and their carers participating in the program. Funding source: Alzheimer’s Australia, Victoria Memory Lane Cafés: evaluation of an integrated approach to social inclusion for people with dementia and their family carers Year: 2008 - 2009 Staff: Briony Dow, Betty Haralambous, Courtney Hempton, Susan Hunt. Summary: Memory Lane Cafés are a service for people with dementia and their family carers or friends. The service is run by Alzheimer's Australia Victoria (AAV) and aims to promote social connectedness and prevent isolation. The National Ageing Research Institute (NARI) was commissioned to evaluate the service in 2008. The evaluation included focus groups with clients, a survey of clients, consultation with staff, and interviews with stakeholders. The evaluation found that clients and staff were highly satisfied with the service. Some of the valued components included: •	Integration with other services offered by AAV •	Opportunity for the person with dementia and their family member to attend together •	Being in an environment where the behaviours associated with dementia were accepted. The main shortcomings of the service were: lack of access for those who had not completed the Living with Memory Loss Program; under-representation from people from culturally diverse backgrounds. Memory Lane Cafés provide a highly valued opportunity for people with dementia and their carers/family members to get together with others in a similar situation and share their experiences. It was recommended that the AAV service be further developed to meet the needs of a wider group of clients. Click here to access the online publication of this study. Funding source: Victorian Department of Health The Assessment of Older People with dementia and depression of Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Backgrounds: A review of current practice and the development of guidelines for Victorian Aged Care Assessment Services Year: 2010 - 2011 Staff: Ms Betty Haralambous, Ms Stephanie Antonopoulos, Ms Kay Ledgerwood, Ms Xiaoping Lin, Ms Victoria Rayner, Ms Freda Vrantsidis, Dr Briony Dow, Dr Dina LoGiudice. Advisors - Dr Susannah Runci, Professor Daniel O’Connor, Monash University Summary: This project sought to improve assessment practice of Aged Care Assessment Services (ACAS) for CALD clients in relation to dementia and depression. A key step was to identify available instruments and determine suitability in the ACAS setting. This process was completed through liaison with ACAS managers to determine current practices (via a survey and focus groups), and the identification of tools and criteria. These processes enabled the development of easy to access tip sheets to guide clinicians in their day to day practice and recommendations for further validation of instruments. Click here for a copy of the final project report Click here for a copy of the project literature review Click below to download the tip sheets Tip Sheet 1 - Assessment and People from Culturally and Linguistically Diverse (CALD) Backgrounds Tip Sheet 2 - Working with Interpreters Tip Sheet 3 - Cognitive assessment and people from Culturally and Linguistically Diverse (CALD) background Tip Sheet 4 – The Clock Drawing Test (CDT) Tip Sheet 5 – The IQCODE (Short form) Tip Sheet 6 – The Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) -15 Click here for a copy of web based resources when working with people of CALD backgrounds experiencing dementia or depression Funding source: Victorian Department of Health Diet, physical activity, mental activity and social engagement for preventing Alzheimer’s disease: a systematic review. Year: 2009 - 2010 Staff: Bruce Barber, Cassandra Szoeke and David Ames Summary: There is an increasing interest in the proposition that a broad range of lifestyle factors have preventative or protective effects against dementia in older persons. This project is conducting a systematic review of studies into the modulating effects of diet, physical activity, mental activity and social engagement on both the onset and the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. The review aims to determine the strength of current evidence, the extent to which the various factors operate independently and whether there is evidence of cumulative effects of these lifestyle factors acting in combination. The review will inform the development of interventions to be used in controlled studies aimed at preventing Alzheimer’s disease. Funding source: CSIRO Flagship Collaboration Fund A review of available translated cognitive assessment tools for older people from culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) backgrounds Year: 2010 (current) Staff: Dr Dina LoGuidice, Dr Briony Dow, Freda Vrantsidis, Victoria Rayner, Prof Daniel O’Connor and Dr Susannah Runci Summary: The National Ageing Research Institute in conjunction with Monash University are undertaking a study looking at translated cognitive assessment tools.  The aim of the project is to collate and evaluate the translated tools against a set of criteria that includes transcultural and psychometric standards.  This information will assist clinicians select a suitable tool for assessing older people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds (CALD) in English speaking countries.  Based on previous reviews, 20 different tools have been selected for further investigation, and the translated versions are limited to the top 10 languages relevant to major CALD groups in Australia, UK, US and Canada.  The ultimate aim of this project is to establish a website that provides information about the translated tools, including details about their availability and hopefully links to the actual tools. Funding source: Dementia Collaborative Research Centres Improving dementia detection rates in older Asian communities  - An education program to improve referral to Memory Services for older people of Asian background living in Melbourne Year: 2009-2011 Staff: Dr Dina LoGuidice, Ms Betty Haralambous, Ms Xiaoping Lin, Ms Freda Vrantsidis, Dr Jean Tinney, Dr Briony Dow, Ms Victoria Rayner, Advisers: Professor Nicola Lautenschlager and Dr Irene Blackberry Summary: This community-based education project determined and implemented the most effective methods of improving early dementia detection rates in two rapidly growing older Asian communities, Chinese and Vietnamese, living in Melbourne. The aims of this project were to: Determine the barriers and enablers for people with dementia and their families of Chinese and Vietnamese backgrounds to accessing Memory Clinic services; Determine the most useful available translated screening tools for cognitive impairment/dementia and depression in these groups; and Develop/implement two education programs (one for the community and one for health professionals) and screening guidelines to improve detection of memory problems at an earlier stage in these two communities. The project developed two evidence based education programs (one for the community and the other for health professionals) through a literature review and consultations with health professionals and community groups. These culturally specific education programs included resource packs that were delivered to the community and health professionals that aimed to improve the rate of assessment and detection of dementia and other causes of cognitive impairment, including referral to Cognitive Dementia and Memory Services (CDAMS). The target group for this project was the older Vietnamese community in the Western suburbs of Melbourne (the catchment area for the Western CDAMS) and the Chinese community in the Eastern suburbs of Melbourne (the catchment area for the Eastern CDAMS). Victoria is unique in providing regional multidisciplinary CDAMS services that offer early diagnosis and advice, support and referral for people with cognitive difficulties and for those who support them. Referrals are received predominantly from GPs and local aged care services. Best practice guidelines include the need for cultural and linguistic sensitivity, and use of interpreters is paramount. Part of the CDAMS role is to provide education on dementia to community services and health professionals. This project consisted of a literature review, consultations with carers, community workers and health professionals and the development of an education program. The education program consisted of holding education sessions with community workers, the community (carers/family members of people with dementia) and health professionals. A resource pack was also developed containing translated material on dementia and cognitive impairment. These packs were distributed to community workers and health professionals and then evaluated. The literature review identified a range of GP and patient/family related barriers to early diagnosis of dementia and characteristics of successful education programs (e.g. interactive, problem-focused approach, locally relevant materials). Consultations with carers/family members and community workers highlighted barriers to early diagnosis including perceptions about dementia, and use of services. It was found that effective ways to provide education should involve newspaper articles, radio, and talks with community groups. Health professional comments indicated that improving knowledge of dementia through community education is a preferred approach to increasing early detection of dementia in these communities. The majority of comments on the education sessions and resource packs were positive. Many participants wanted the information from the resource packs provided on a website. Further research is needed to investigate whether increased education and awareness of dementia in these communities’ leads to increased referrals to Memory Clinics. The final report includes a range of recommendations for future consideration. Funding source: The J.O. and J.R. Wicking Trust Publications: Please click here for the  final report Please click here for the executive summary Please click here for a copy of the discussion paper Please click here for a summary of the literature review Please click here for a copy of the literature review The online publication of the literature review will be available shortly. Please click here for the web based resources. Fitness for the Ageing Brain Study II (FABS II) Year: 2009-2012 Staff: Melbourne: Nicola Lautenschlager (NARI and University of Melbourne), David Ames, Keith Hill, Elizabeth Cyarto, Ellen Gaffy, Emma Renehan (NARI), Dina LoGiudice (Melbourne Health); Perth: Kay Cox, Osvaldo Almeida, Leon Flicker, Christopher Beer (University of Western Australia), Fran Waddell and Katherine Hughes; Brisbane: Gerard Byrne, Kana Appadurai (University of Queensland) and Lyn Isbel. Summary: The  primary aim of this 3-site multicentre randomised controlled trial (RCT) is to  establish whether physical activity (PA) can decrease the rate of cognitive  decline amongst patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s Disease (AD). The  main hypothesis is that participants with mild to moderate AD who are  randomised to a program of PA will experience significantly less cognitive  decline by the end of the intervention than participants with mild to moderate  AD randomised to usual care.  Previously,  some of the researchers involved in this study successfully  developed a PA program for participants with mild cognitive impairment (FABS)  and tested this program in a pilot study with patients with mild to moderate  AD. After a  baseline visit participants will be randomised to either the  intervention (PA) or usual care. Participants are patients with mild to moderate AD living in Perth, Melbourne or Brisbane and their carer.  The intervention will be based on the Stages of Change model and will comprise  three components: the PA program, the behavioural intervention package, and  telephone monitoring. Pedometers will be used to monitor PA level. We will use  a series of well-established tests and instruments to collect cognitive,  physical and clinical parameters. The  primary outcome is cognitive decline measured with the ADAS-cog. In the pilot  study, participants in the usual care group (n=10) deteriorated in 6 months  4.47 ± 6.36 points whereas the patients in the intervention group (n=12)  deteriorated 2.21 ± 4.88 points. Secondary outcomes are quality of life,  functional level, physical fitness and health measures. Should our main  hypothesis be confirmed, a systematic program of PA would have the potential  benefit of providing an affordable and relatively simple intervention. By  delaying deterioration in patients with mild to moderate AD, we may be able to  postpone disability, prolong independent living and potentially reduce the  costs associated with care. Funding source: National Health & Medical Research Council (NHMRC) RECRUITING   NOW! Have you or a   family member been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s Disease? The National   Ageing Research Institute (NARI) and the University of Melbourne are conducting a research study to find out if physical activity can help memory and quality of   life. We are looking   for volunteers who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s Disease and their   relative or close friend who would be interested in   participating. To register   your interest or for further details, please contact Dr Elizabeth Cyarto on 03   8387 2332. Click Here to visit FABS II webpage for more information. This research has been approved by the  Melbourne Health Mental Health Research Ethics Committee The Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle Flagship Study of Ageing (AIBL) Year: 2006-2010 (current) Staff: David Ames (study leader), Kathryn Ellis (study manager) AIBL management committee: David Ames (study leader), Kathryn Ellis (study manager), Christopher Rowe, Ralph Martins, Colin Masters, Andrew Milner, Lindsay Bevege, Cassandra Szoeke All full list of AIBL collaborators can be found at www.aibl.csiro.au Summary: The Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Flagship Study of Ageing (AIBL) is one of the few large-scale longitudinal studies of Alzheimer’s disease. AIBL is a multi-centre prospective study of neuroimaging, biomarkers, clinical and neuropsychological measures, and lifestyle patterns in a cohort of 1000 volunteers comprised of patients with Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and healthy volunteers. The AIBL study aims to improve understanding of the pathogenesis, early diagnosis and clinical course of AD. At baseline, each volunteer completed the international physical activity questionnaire, a food frequency questionnaire, a comprehensive clinical and neuropsychology battery, and provided an 80ml blood sample for clinical pathology, biomarker analysis and storage in liquid nitrogen. In addition, 250 of the cohort (25% from each group) received a [C-11]PIB PET scan as a measure of in vivo amyloid and a MRI scan. The study was launched in November 2006 and comprehensive baseline data collection has been completed. Follow up assessments (18 month post-baseline) have now commenced. Funding source: CSIRO Flagship Collaboration Cluster Funding The Dementia Resource Guide Year: 2006-2007; 2009 Staff: Keith Hill, Kirsten Moore, Marcia Fearn, Sue Hunt, Dina LoGuidice, Marlena Klaic, Courtney Hempton (2006-2007); Betty Haralambous, Sue Hunt, Courtney Hempton, Xiaoping Lin, Veelyn Tan, Claudia Meyer, Karen Borschmann, Sue Williams, Paul Jeffrey, Dina LoGuidice, Kirsten Moore, David Ames and Jach Sach (2009) Summary: In 2007, NARI developed the Dementia Resource Guide for the Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing, with the aim of improving the care and quality of life of people with dementia. The evidence-based Guide contains information, resources, tools, guidelines and best practice principles for staff in community, residential and health care settings as well as carers and people with dementia. The Guide was developed through a comprehensive stocktake and evaluation of over 700 existing dementia related resources. Over 300 of these resources were selected for inclusion in the Guide. After developing a draft, the Guide was piloted in eleven sites representing most Australian States and Territories across metropolitan, rural and regional locations as well as community, residential and health care settings. The sites also included a service that predominately provided care to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders and one to people from Culturally and Linguistically Diverse backgrounds. Feedback from the pilot led to revision of the Guide with the final Guide made available in hard copy and website formats in June 2008. The Hon. Justine Elliot, Minister for Ageing launched the Dementia Resource Guide at Hammond Care’s 7th Biennial International Dementia Conference at Darling Harbour in Sydney in June 2008. In 2009, the Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing contracted NARI to undertake a review of the Dementia Resource Guide during March to July 2009. The review  included an update of resources and an evaluation of the uptake and dissemination of the Guide. Funding source: Australian Government Department of Health and  Ageing Click here to access the online version of the Dementia Resource Guide International Psychogeriatrics Vol 21 Issue 1 - Dementia Supplement - International perspectives on dementia education, training and knowledge transfer Year: 2009 Staff: Dr. Colleen Doyle Summary: This special issue was funded by the Australian Department of Health and Ageing and edited by Dr Colleen Doyle. The supplement consisted of 10 original research articles from authors in the UK, USA and Australia.  In Australia, as in other countries, the aged care workforce and the setting are changing - more people are being cared for in the community rather than in residential care. This supplement addressed issues around how to respond to a changing workforce and training needs. Perspectives from the UK included a description of intensive study of dementia care available at the University of Bradford, and a model of education suitable for the acute ward setting. Perspectives from the USA included strategies for training primary care physicians in the identification, diagnosis and management of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Papers from Australia discussed the concept of leadership in dementia education. Publication(s): Colleen Doyle (2009). International perspectives on dementia education, training and knowledge transfer. International Psychogeriatrics , 21 , pp S1-S2 Funding source: DoHA A study to validate the Rowland Universal Dementia Assessment Scale (RUDAS) in two populations outside the South Western Sydney Area Health Service Year: 2005-2007 Staff: Keith Hill, Freda Vrantsidis, Dina LoGiudice, David Basic, Jeff Rowland, David Conforti, Jan Harry, Katherine Lucerne, Rob Prowse Summary: The primary aims of this study were to validate the RUDAS in populations outside the South West Sydney area where the tool was developed and to validate the tool in subjects with mild to moderate dementia (the original study was over represented with moderate to severe subjects).  A secondary aim of the study was to compare the RUDAS with two existing assessment tools – the MMSE and the GPCOG.  This study was a joint project involving NARI, the Royal Melbourne Hospital (Royal Park Campus), the Royal Adelaide Hospital and the Liverpool Hospital.  Patients were recruited in Melbourne and Adelaide from memory clinics and control patients were recruited from various outpatient services/community programs.  One hundred and fifty one participants were recruited.  Results from this study indicate that the RUDAS is a valid screening tool for cognitive impairment that can be used in multiple settings and in people with a broad range of cognitive function.  Performance on the RUDAS correlated highly with the MMSE and GPCOG.  The RUDAS was equally effective as the MMSE and GPCOG in its predictive accuracy but had some advantages over the other tools.  Further investigation of the RUDAS is warranted. Click Here to Download the Final Report Ageing, 
        Memory Loss and Biofeedback Year: 2004-05 Summary: Undertaken 
          in conjunction with the CSIRO P-Health Flagship Program a current study 
          at NARI will determine whether voluntary increases in brain blood flow 
          can arrest or reverse the progression of memory deficits in mild cognitively impaired patients. 
          The study employs a biofeedback method in which participants view a 
          graphic representation of their brain blood flow on a computer screen 
          and, with training, learn to increase the rate at which blood flows 
          through a region of the brain that has a role in short term memory function. 
          Participants attend two biofeedback sessions per week for twenty weeks. 
          To determine whether the ability to increase blood perfusion in the 
          brain has any beneficial cognitive effects, participants undertake a 
          weekly computer-based set of tasks that measure short-term memory capacity, 
          reaction time and divided attention capacity. In addition, participants 
          are monitored using questionnaires that serve as indices of cognition, 
          anxiety, depression and beliefs about health and wellbeing to determine 
          whether these factors might be associated with changes in cognitive 
          status and memory function. Funding source: CSIRO Music 
        changes the patterns of brain activity and improves blood circulation 
        in patients with Alzheimer's disease Summary: In 
          patients with dementia, the capacity to comprehend music is commonly 
          retained even when language abilities have been lost. Case studies suggest 
          that music may have beneficial effects on the cognitive and social capabilities 
          of dementia patients. NARI's researchers have been able to provide the 
          first objective evidence to support these observations. Using a novel 
          measure of vascular flow together with an EEG coherence measure of cortical 
          brain function, we show that behavioural changes associated with music 
          are accompanied by improved vascular function and a clear pattern of 
        coherent brain activity in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Dementia 
        in Australian Indigenous communities Summary: Research 
          indicates advances in the assessment and management of dementia are 
          beneficial. Unfortunately the vast majority of this research has been 
          performed on non-Indigenous groups and therefore cannot be easily translated 
          to Australian Indigenous communities. The limited data available indicate 
          there may be a higher prevalence of dementia in Indigenous communities, 
          with cerebrovascular disease, injury and excessive alcohol use being 
          common underlying and potentially reversible causes. Further research 
          is needed to determine the magnitude of the problem of dementia in the 
          Indigenous population. Before this can be ascertained an appropriate 
          means of assessing a person with memory problems and possible dementia 
          needs to be developed in a culturally sensitive manner. This study is 
          working to develop and validate an assessment tool that is specific 
          for those of Indigenous background. A study will then be performed to 
          determine the prevalence and underlying causes of dementia, in a representative 
          sample of older Indigenous people living in the Kimberley region of 
          Western Australia. This will have significant implications for the planning 
          of effective and culturally appropriate services for older Indigenous 
        people with dementia and their families and carers. Delirium Summary: The 
          most obvious behavioural signs of delirium are deficits in attention 
          and memory. We are using electrophysiological measures of brain function 
          in conjunction with passive tasks to determine where, in the chain of 
          information processing of auditory stimuli, people with delirium show 
          deficits. We have found that there are no significant differences between 
          young and old subjects in pre-attentional and later attentional phases 
          critical to sensory memory formation. Having confirmed the methodology 
          we are now undertaking the next phase of the study in which we are examining 
        and comparing the responses of delirious and demented patients. Does 
        the combined use of cognitive tests and skin vascular responses increase 
        the accuracy of diagnosis of mild cognitive changes? Summary: Approximately 
          10-15% of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) tend to progress 
          to clinically probable Alzheimer's disease. This clinical study aims 
          to identify patients with MCI, using a combined diagnostic approach. 
          The combined use of CogState and the patent skin test (Patent No: 2003905207) 
          will increase the accuracy of diagnosing MCI and, therefore, help in 
        identifying early the people at risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. A 
      novel skin test for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease Summary: Early 
          and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is essential to provide 
          appropriate treatment. This study examined the effectiveness of a novel 
          skin test for early diagnosis of AD (Patent No: 2003905207) that is 
          based on detecting peripheral vascular deficiency. This novel non-invasive 
          skin test has potential clinical use as an early diagnostic marker of 
        AD. Early diagnosis leads to early treatment and better management. Can 
        a cognitive (music) intervention enhance the treatment effects of Aricept 
      in patients with Alzheimer's disease? Year: 2002-06 (current) Summary: The 
          study's primary objective is to examine the possibility that a stimulating 
          cognitive environment, characterised by a music intervention, could 
          additively enhance Alzheimer's disease (AD) patient responsiveness to 
          a pharmaceutical intervention, as assessed by both peripheral and central 
          physiological measures and a psychometric measure of cognitive status 
          (MMSE). Funding source: Pfizer Neuro Science Research Grant Amyloid 
        beta protein, Alzheimer's disease and ageing Summary: This 
          study aimed to identify the vascular toxic effects of the amyloid beta 
          protein involved in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. This project 
          has major clinical implications because it identifies vascular toxins 
          that contribute to the disease's development and this is important, 
          as these vascular elements are potentially readily reversible risk factors. 
          Interventions to reduce or reverse these vascular effects could be effective 
        in retarding the progress of Alzheimer's disease. The 
        ability of available medications for Alzheimer's disease to modulate 
        the vascular toxic effects of Amyloid beta protein Summary: This 
          is the first study to attempt to assess the effectiveness of available 
          medications for Alzheimer's disease (AD) to modulate the vascular toxic 
          effects of amyloid beta protein. The aim is to examine the possibility 
          that a simple assessment of peripheral vascular responses in AD patients 
          could indicate the effectiveness of medications in modulating the disease 
          pathology. If successful, the project's results could provide enormous 
          cost savings to the Australian health system and improve patient well-being 
        by enabling systematic evaluation of the benefits of medications. Pain: 
        Dementia and Memory Loss For information about Pain: Dementia and Memory 
          Loss go to the Research / Pain / Dementia and Memory Loss section 
          of our web site, link here 
          ....