Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Dental Sealants - Physicians Regional | Physicians Regional Pay My Bill Careers Maps & Directions Contact Us (239) 354-6000 (Collier) or (239) 348-4000 (Pine Ridge) Home Medical Services Patients & Visitors Classes & Programs Health Education Physicians Locations About Home » Health Education » Dental Sealants I want to . . . Find a Doctor Find a Medical Service Sign Up for Classes & Programs Get Directions to a Hospital Pay My Bill Visit Physicians Regional Medical Group Health Education Healthy Living Health Centers Family Health Dental Sealants Dental Sealants What are dental sealants? Dental sealants are thin, plastic films bonded to the chewing surfaces of the back teeth--molars and premolars--and are highly effective in the prevention of tooth decay (caries, cavities). Dental sealants are particularly effective on the back teeth, as the back teeth contain more hard-to-reach pits and grooves that serve as a host to food debris and bacteria. How effective are dental sealants? Because the sealants act as a physical barrier to decay and bacteria, in most cases, they provide 100 percent protection--with the most important variable being how well the dental sealant adheres to the teeth. In addition, research has shown that sealants actually stop cavities when placed on top of a slightly decayed tooth. This action seals off the supply of nutrients to the bacteria that causes the cavity. The dental sealant becomes ineffective when all or part of the bond between the tooth and the sealant is broken. Who are likely candidates for dental sealants? Sealants are especially beneficial for children because their newly erupted, permanent teeth are most susceptible to cavities and least benefited by fluoride. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), sealants should be used as part of a child's total preventive dental care. However, the CDC reports about only one-third of children between the ages of 6 and 19 have dental sealants. A complete preventive dental program includes sealants, fluoride, plaque removal (good home care), careful food choices, and regular dental care. Many young adults can also benefit from dental sealants. In addition, sealants help to maintain the health of teeth. Each time a tooth is filled due to tooth decay, additional tooth structure is lost. According to the CDC, fillings last an average of six to eight years, after which time they need to be replaced. Therefore, sealants often save time, money, reduce the discomfort associated with dental treatment procedures, and keep the tooth healthy. What does the procedure involve? The procedure starts with cleaning the surface of the tooth, rinsing the surface to remove all traces of the cleaning agent, and drying the tooth. An acidic solution or gel is applied to the surface of the tooth, including the pits and grooves, to make the surface of the tooth rough. After several seconds, the solution is thoroughly rinsed away with water and the site is dried. The liquid sealant is then applied and allowed to harden, or hardened with a special blue light (curing light). With proper oral hygiene, sealants may last five to 10 years. If sealants are chipped or lost, they can easily be reapplied. Related Content Articles Dental Sealants Shield Against Tooth Decay Pediatric Diseases and Conditions Dental Procedures for Children Sealants Patients Find a Doctor Physician Referral Pay My Bill Admissions Visitors Maps & Directions Gift Shop Visitor Information Local Accommodations Physicians Physicians Regional Medical Group Physician Opportunities Health Care Professionals Why Physicians Regional? Hospital and Clinic Careers Seasonal Careers Health Content Healthy Living Health Centers Your Family About Mission & Vision Press Releases News Stories Volunteer Opportunities Copyright © 2012 Physicians Regional. All rights reserved. Notice of Privacy Practices | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use Services Orthopedics Women's Health Robotic Surgery Center Vein Center Neurovascular and Stroke Institute Ear, Nose and Throat Optical Center See All Services » Treatment & Procedures Biopsy CT Breast Imaging MRI Ultrasound Patients Find a Doctor Physician Referral Pay My Bill Admissions Billing and Insurance Medical Records Request Visitors Visitor Information Gift Shop Local Accommodations Patients & Visitors Maps & Directions Event Categories Community Lectures Diabetes Education Programs CuddleBugs Executive Health Healthy Start Research Studies Speakers Bureau Health Education Topics Healthy Living Health Centers Your Family See All Health Topics » Interactive Health Tools Blood Pressure Quiz BMI Calculator Calorie Burn Rate Calculator Diabetes Quiz Target Heart Rate Calculator Health Library A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z For Patients Find a Doctor Physician Referral For Physicians Physician Opportunities Medical Groups Physicians Regional Medical Group Hospitals Physicians Regional - Collier Blvd Physicians Regional - Pine Ridge Other Facilities PRHS - Bonita Springs I PRHS - Bonita Springs II PRHS - Bonita Springs III PRHS - Medical Arts Building (MOB) PRHS - Pebblebrooke Center Our Story CEO's Message Mission & Vision History Leadership Our Community Speakers Bureau Joint Commission Seal of Approval News Press Releases News Stories Careers Why Physicians Regional? Physician Opportunities Hospital