
Unicity International Unicity Science Aloe Vera Nature's cleansing substance. Item #0205 50 Tablets The use of Aloe Vera can be traced all the way back to the ancient Egyptians. 
              The glamorous Cleopatra regarded Aloe Vera as her beauty secret. Aloe 
              was held in such reverence in Egypt that it was considered to be the "Plant 
              of Immortality." Drawings of the Aloe plant have even been found inscribed 
              in the tombs of pharaohs. There are several variations of the Aloe plant, but only one variety has 
              a legendary medicinal reputation dating back thousands of years: the Aloe 
              Vera. Vera, that means true in Latin, was added to the appellation of 
              this particular specimen in order to distinguish its primacy among the 
              Aloe plants. One of nature's time-tested healing substances, Aloe Vera helps the body 
              cleanse itself and provides minerals, vitamins, enzymes, glycoproteins, 
              essential oils, and amino acids to support the body's defense, gastrointestinal, 
              and urinary systems.(1) Ingredients Aloe vera herb, magnesium stearate, and gelatin Research Brief The Aloe Vera plant has a long history of use for its healing properties. 
                The plants large bladelike leaves are the source of the Aloe gel. The 
                inner chamber of the Aloe Vera leaf is made up of the clear pulp, which 
                resembles slightly melted lemon Jell-O. The pulp is believed to contain 
                the wound-healing agents. The Russians call these "biogenic stimulators". 
                They now have developed a process by where they can use the leaf of the 
                plant, which is also the strongest part of the plant, for nutrients. Aloe 
                has a natural antidotal effect, neutralizing body toxins thus, reducing 
                joint pain caused by tissue toxicity. Aloe Vera has been used widely in 
                Holistic medicine in the amelioration of immune system dysfunction. The 
                effect is to stabilize the life force; thereby, contributing to balancing 
                the blood. It is believed to boost the immune system by balancing the 
                pH of the blood and also increases digestion and absorption. As early 
                as 1935, it was recommended to use Aloe Vera juice in treating certain 
                types of burns because of its well-known properties in soothing sun-damaged 
                skin. Aloe Vera has properties for promoting the removal of dead skin and stimulating 
                the normal growth of living cells. During the healing process, it can 
                soothe the skin and may promote healing. Aloe Vera is excellent for absorbing 
                toxins and promoting growth of friendly "good" colon bacteria, which is 
                required for good health and is thus often used in colon cleansing products. FAQs Q: Does this product act as a diuretic or a laxative? A: Aloe Vera has a gentle, natural laxative action. Q: Will this product settle my stomach? A: Aloe Vera has been used historically to regulate digestive 
                  function. Q: If my immune system has already been damaged, can I still take 
                  this product? A: If you have a diagnosed medical condition, you must consult 
                  with your physician before using any dietary supplement. References At this time, there are no references available for this product. * These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.  These products are no