<http://www.myspine.us/?p=916>; rel=shortlink
X-Pingback: http://www.myspine.us/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Lower Back Exercises for Men | MySpine, PS Home New Patient Center What to Expect Payment Options Our Philosophy Services Team News & Events Testimonials Contact Patient Login So Don’t Hesitate, Contact Us Today! For a new patient special, please fill out the form below and submit it. Once received, we’ll give you a call and get you on your way to excellent health; with a perk.

Got a questions that you’d like answered? Type it into the message field and we’ll post it to the site in an new upcoming FAQ section. Name: * E-Mail Address: * Phone Number: * Have a question about chiropractic? CAPTCHA Code: * View Larger Map MySpine on Lower Back Exercises for Men November 02, 2011 Comments Off Uncategorized As many men are more likely to do weight training with heavy weights, lower back exercises for men are very important in making the bottom of your back stronger and strengthening the supporting muscles to allow you to do the heavy lifting. As many personal fitness trainers will testify, lower back exercises for men are vital in creating a good supporting structure in your body to allow you to lift heavy objects. Yoga has been recommended by various professionals, and although it is not considered a very challenging sport to those who don’t know what it is, it’s a great way to strengthen your core and improve the strength in specific areas of your body. Exercise 1: The yoga position ‘The Cat’ is a great exercise for stretching out the spine. Beginning on your hands and knees, you start with a straight back (ensure your abs are tucked into help with this) and then slowly arch your back whilst lowering your neck. Doing a few repetitions of this once or twice a day will help strengthen the lower back. Exercise 2: Another great lower back exercise for men is to sit with a good posture on a firm chair and place one ankle on the knee of the other leg and bend forward. This should be held for about 60 seconds, and then you can come back up and repeat with the other ankle to the other knee. You should do about 10 repetitions of this easy exercise and you will soon see the benefits. As men’s bodies tend to be stiffer and less flexible in comparison to women, it is important to keep doing lower back exercises to improve stability, no matter how old you are. Exercise equipment like a Swiss ball can be especially helpful in building strength in the lower back. Exercise 3: Start by lying flat on your back and place your calves on the Swiss ball. Next, raise your right arm and straighten your left leg over the ball. After a few seconds, lower both your right arm and left leg and repeat the movement, this time with your left arm and right leg. This should be repeated about 10 times and can be done every day. Lower back exercises are so vital for both men and women that it is important to remember that daily lower back exercises are crucial in developing lower back strength. Although most training requires a couple of days rest per week, lower back exercises are one of the things that you can do without resting in between – that’s how important they are! Men who play golf, train with heavy weights or lift heavy objects on a day to day basis should always do lower back exercises to not only strengthen their backs, but also as a method for relieving lower back pain and overall creating great stability in the base of the back. Learn more about your Issaquah Chiropractor and how MySpine may serve you! Sorry, the comment form is closed at this time. MySpine MySpine Chiropractic & Massage 5 stars - based on 65 reviews 5712 E Lake Sammamish Pkwy SE Ste 106 Issaquah , WA 98029 (425) 270-3392 MySpine on Clinic Hours Monday - Friday: 9am - 1pm | 2:30pm - 6:30pm Saturday: By Appointment Only Why MySpine is the right choice? Staff Login Username: Password: &copy 2011. MySpine, PS, Chiropractor in Issaquah . All