
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:07:47 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:07:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
ntCoent-Length: 99767
Cache-Control: private
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:07:43 GMT
Connection: close

DoctorNDTV: Health Information on Gestational diabetes NDTV Profit Khabar Movies Cricket Doctor Good Times .....for the better health of Indians -----------------------  Advertisement -------------------------- Home News Experts Q&A Photos Videos Interactives Interview Features Top 5 Directories Dictionary Calculators A-Z Topics Sections Fitness/Lifestyle Bones & Joints Breast Feeding Cancer Child Development Children Diabetes Drugs Ear Emotions Eyes Health Insurance Heart HIV/AIDS Infection Injuries/FirstAid Liver Men's Health Nutrition Pregnancy Rehabilitation Medicine Sex Skin Surgery Teeth Tobacco Control Travel and Health Tuberculosis Women's Health Poll Q. Do you use your mobile to look for health related information? Yes No Can't Say Post comment | Previous poll Home » Topics » GESTATIONAL DIABETES GESTATIONAL DIABETES Print | Comments: Read | Post What is gestational diabetes? What are the causes? What are the symptoms? How is it diagnosed? What is the treatment? Share Wednesday, 05 May 2010 Written by : DoctorNDTV Team What is gestational diabetes? Diabetes which develops just before or during a pregnancy is called gestational diabetes. Though the patient may have diabetes before the onset of the pregnancy, it is termed gestational only if it is first identified after the pregnancy has occurred. The condition occurs in roughly 4% of all pregnancies. Gestational diabetes is usually identified during the second trimester of pregnancy. In this condition, the pregnancy hormones inhibit the action of insulin due to which the glucose produced in the body is not utilised for providing energy. The glucose level in the body increases leading to hyperglycaemia and the body tissues are deprived of energy. High blood sugar can damage the health of the fetus. Some of the complications for the baby include premature delivery, respiratory problems, congestive heart failure and decreased ability to tolerate labour. What are the causes? There are several risk factors that may predispose a woman to develop gestational diabetes. Some of them are: Maternal age of over 25 years Family history of diabetes, gestational or otherwise Obesity A previous child with birth defects or a still birth Recurrent bladder or urinary tract infections A prior baby weighing more than 3.75 kg. What are the symptoms? The condition is a difficult to diagnose since the symptoms may be vague and mild in most cases. Some of the common symptoms that may manifest themselves in varying degrees are: Excessive thirst and increased urination Unexplained excessive weight gain or weight loss Constant fatigue and tiredness accompanied by nausea and vomiting Blurred vision How is it diagnosed? The main method of diagnosis of gestational diabetes is the detection of traces of glucose or high levels of urine in the blood. The specific test for diagnosis is called Oral Glucose Tolerance Test. In this test, the pregnant woman is made to drink a glucose solution and a urine test is done an hour later to check for the level of glucose in her body. The normal value of blood glucose after 8 hours of fasting is 70 to 110 mg/dl. What is the treatment? The treatment for diabetes during pregnancy requires expert supervision and constant medical care to avoid any complications. The main treatment modality is diet modification to control the level of blood sugar. If this does not help, insulin injections may have to be given. Oral medication is not usually recommended during pregnancy. Print | Comments: Read | Post Post comments We request you not to tell us about your medical problems through this comment tool. We are unable to keep track of the innumerable queries and their answers that we get everyday 
                                unless they are sent through "Ask a Question" Name: * E-mail: * City: Phone: Comments: * 7000 characters remaining Spam protection Enter the code: * Disclaimer: Material sent in this section is contributed by users. DoctorNDTV accepts no responsibility for the content or accuracy of such material and does not endorse or subscribe to the content. ----------------------- Advertisement4 -------------------------- Latest Photos More Photos» Featured FAQ Featured Q & A What is artificial pancreas? How long does healing take after circumcision? Is typhoid contagious? What is the alternative medication to  non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs? Recent FAQ Recent Q & A Why am I having persistent redness in the eyes? Does high TSH level affect pregnancy? Why is my pregnant wife experiencing from yellowish discharge? Why has my father started talking irrelevantly? Am I suffering from any throat disease? Survey Radiation and health outcomes The effect radiation has on human health has been the subject of recent interest. Previous Survey --------------------------------  Advertisement  ----------------------------------- In DoctorNDTV Topics : Angiography , Diarrhoea in adults , Ultrasound examination , Autism trivia , Varicocoele , Pap smear , Serum creatinine , Borderline personality disorder , Bell's Palsy , Paedophilia , Puberty , Dialysis , Autism , Aortic angiogram , Anorexia nervosa , Nosebleed , Low sperm count , Heat stroke (Heat injury) , Children's speech, hearing and vision , Ovarian cancer This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. NDTV Profit Khabar Movies Cricket Doctor Good Times About Us | Advertise | Feedback | Disclaimer | Investor | Complaint Redressal | Newsletter | Sitemap | Contact 