<http://wp.me/p1VbhK-4p>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

what is yoga good for? yogatechniquestoday.com The Best Yoga Techniques Home Yoga Articles Yoga Questions Yoga Videos Yoga Products what is yoga good for? MICHELLE Asked: what is yoga good for? ? Answers: KB Answered: The short answer is that yoga makes you feel better. Practicing the postures, breathing exercises and meditation makes you healthier in body, mind and spirit. Yoga lets you tune in, chill out, shape up — all at the same time. For many people, that's enough of an answer. But there's more if you're interested. For starters, yoga is good for what ails you. Specifically, research shows that yoga helps manage or control anxiety, arthritis, asthma, back pain, blood pressure, carpal tunnel syndrome, chronic fatigue, depression, diabetes, epilepsy, headaches, heart disease, multiple sclerosis, stress and other conditions and diseases. What's more, yoga: Improves muscle tone, flexibility, strength and stamina Reduces stress and tension Boosts self esteem Improves concentration and creativity Lowers fat Improves circulation Stimulates the immune system Creates sense of well being and calm. And that's just the surface stuff. In fact, most of the benefits mentioned above are secondary to yoga's original purpose. Developed in India, yoga is a spiritual practice that has been evolving for the last 5,000 years or so. The original yogis were reacting, in part, to India's ancient Vedic religion, which emphasized rituals. The yogis wanted a direct spiritual experience — one on one — not symbolic ritual. So they developed yoga. Yoga means "union" in Sanskrit, the classical language of India. According to the yogis, true happiness, liberation and enlightenment comes from union with the divine consciousness known as Brahman, or with Atman, the transcendent Self. The various yoga practices are a methodology for reaching that goal. In hatha yoga, for example, postures and breathing exercises help purify the mind, body and spirit so the yogi can attain union. Pranayama breathing exercises help clear the nadis, or channels, that carry prana the universal life force, allowing prana to flow freely. When the channels are clear and the last block at the base of the spine has been opened, Kundalini rises through the spine, through the central channel called the sushumna-nadi, and joins the crown chakra. According to the tradition, the release of Kundalini leads to enlightenment and union. Tennis Pro Answered: All the above. haha.Id call up your local yoga studio/ club/ ymca and ask if you can try it out.Most of the time they will let you try a session for free.You never will truly know what it is like unless you go and experience it for yourself. missvictoria Answered: I took yoga classes throughout the semester. It's really helpful with stress. It helps the mind and body. Your nervous system adjusts to things it couldn't do before. It also keeps you more toned. It can also help with cleansing your system depending on the type of yoga. Got a better answer? Share it below! Amazon.com Widgets No related posts. Be the first to comment - What do you think? Posted by
					JenniferColeman
					
					 - 
					December 14, 2011 at 12:30 pm Categories: Yoga Questions Tags: India , Tennis Pro Answered Leave a Reply Cancel reply Name * Email * Website CAPTCHA Code * Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Featured Yoga Techniques… Random Search Terms roll over waist yoga pant hobbies for teenage boy sleeping positions to grow taller vedios lose 10kg with aerobic in 1 month thongs and yoga pants bikram yoga after tattoo hot yoga after a tattoo yogic word tattoos w w w facebook nirmalbaba com can i go to yoga after getting a tattoo Popular Search Terms www facebook com/nirmalbabaji www nirmalbaba com wwwnirmalbaba com Www facebook com/nirmal babaji www nirmalbabaji com www facebook com/nirmalbaba www facebook/nirmalbaba com www facebook/nirmalbabaji www nirmal baba com www facebook/nirmalbabaji com Pages Home Yoga Techniques Today Yoga For Pregnancy Yoga At Home. Yoga Moves. Yoga For Beginners Yoga Lessons Yoga positions Yoga Breathing Yoga Stretches Yoga Routines Anti-spam Policy Anti-spam Policy | Disclaimer | Dmca Notice | E-mail Policy | Earnings Disclaimer | External Links Policy | Medical Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms Of Use | Testimonial Disclaimer © 2011