Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Treatment The Epilepsy Foundation Parents Website is a product of the Epilepsy Foundation epilepsyfoundation.org Epilepsy and Your child E-Newsletter | About Us | Contact Us | FAQs Español Just Diagnosed About Epilepsy Treatment Living With Epilepsy Raising Awareness Resources & Connections LGS Treatment Your Medical Team First Aid Medication Surgery Vagus Nerve Stimulation Ketogenic Diet Find your local Epilepsy Foundation Enter Zip or State Code Treatment There are more treatment options for children with epilepsy than ever. Knowing what to do when your child has a seizure and making sure your child gets the best treatment possible are among the most important things you can do for your child.  There are many different kinds of treatments for epilepsy.  Doctors usually recommend that children try medication first.  They often need to try a few different antiepileptic (seizure-preventing) drugs before the right one is found.   If medication doesn't work or causes very difficult side effects ,   other treatments that they might try include surgery, the ketogenic diet or vagus nerve stimulation (VNS).  Some people have also found success using herbs, vitamins and other complementary therapies along with medical treatment options, but you should always check with your doctor first before trying these. Parents and doctors should work together to not only find the best treatment, but to keep checking to make sure it continues to be the best option.  New treatments are continually being developed.  If, even with treatment, your child is having seizures or troubling side effects, you should talk to an epilepsy specialist to see if there are other options that you can try.  It's important to be an active partner .in your child's care. Learn more about treatment options Questions to Ask What should I do when my child has a seizure? What side effects are common with this medicine? Are there any new medications we can try? Do you recommend the ketogenic diet for my child? Is surgery an option? More Questions> Tools You Can Use Seizure Log Seizure Description Sheet Medication Log Doctor Visit Notes Other Resources > Connect Join the Epilepsy Foundation eCommunities and talk to others about raising children with epilepsy! Video Listen to other parents talk about raising children with epilepsy. Watch Video > Home | Sitemap | Find a Local Chapter 8301 Professional Place  Landover MD 20785 Phone (800) 332-1000 Epilepsy Foundation of America ® This website was developed with funding from the Health Resources and Services Administration’