Date: Wed, 22 Feb 2012 14:22:35 GMT
X-Varnish: 1560763065
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Barb's Daily Dose: Safe Cold Remedies for Children Barb's Daily Dose My Other Accounts Facebook: 1650902166 LinkedIn: Barbara Dehn Twitter: NurseBarbDehn Subscribe to this blog's feed Pages About Barb All About El Camino Hospital Appearances on TV Buy Barb's Guides - NEW! Downloads for Moms Downloads for Providers Frequently Asked Questions Our Awards Press Releases Talent Reel Sign Up Now Free Offers, Events, & More (Required fields are bold ) Email Address * First Name Last Name Useful Websites Blue Orchid Press Caring.com Childhood Matters Cord Blood Registry (CBR) Dr. Pec Indman's Postpartum Depression site Glamour Magazine, Blog Information on Diseases Nurses Network.com Postpartum Progress Pregnancy Weekly Contact Nurse Barb Send Me A Message « Curves and Zumba | Main | What You Need to Know About Medical Tests » Safe Cold Remedies for Children With all the recalls of children's cold remedies, parents are scrambling for safe and effective remedies that will help ease their child's symptoms and help them sleep.  For a cough, a recent study found that a teaspoon of honey was just as effective as the over the counter cough suppressants.  I've been using this remedy on myself and I can tell you, it works on adults as well.  The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that infants 12 months and younger do NOT have honey because of concerns that honey may contain botulism spores and could cause serious consequences. For fever, be sure to follow the instructions carefully on any over-the-counter fever remedies you use.  Also, avoid putting too many layers on the child, use  tepid water baths to reduce fever naturally and keep them well hydrated. For coughs and lung congestion, a recent study found that parents who used Vicks Vapor Rub on their child before bed found that it worked to help everyone in the house sleep better with less coughing and cold symptoms.  Vicks has a combination of camphor, menthol and eucalyptus oils which is a safe and effective way to ease congestion. If your child is vomiting or has diarrhea, resist the urge to push them to drink large amounts of fluids quickly, they're likely to have rebound vomiting.  Instead, give them a teaspoon of juice or pedialyte mixed 1/2 and 1/2 with water.  Give them 1 teaspoon every 5-10 minutes.  The liquid will be absorbed before it reaches the stomach.  You can help the child get rehydrated slowly and avoid more vomiting. Posted at 03:24 AM in Alternative Medicine , Babies and Toddlers , Children , Medications , Mom 2 Mom , Teens | Permalink | Digg This | | | TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00e55017ae1488330147e14c8830970b Listed below are links to weblogs that reference Safe Cold Remedies for Children : Comments You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the comment feed for this post. Thank you so much for this as a reminder. My mum used to do this when we were young and I think as we grew older we tended to think that we knew better. Yes -" For a cough, a recent study found that a teaspoon of honey was just as effective as the over the counter cough suppressants." As the cliche says, the old ones are the best Mary Posted by: Mary Philips | January 18, 2011 at 05:49 AM Verify your Comment Previewing your Comment Posted by: | This is only a preview. Your comment has not yet been posted. Your comment could not be posted. Error type: Your comment has been posted. Post another comment The letters and numbers you entered did not match the image. Please try again. As a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below. This prevents automated programs from posting comments. Having trouble reading this image? View an alternate. Post a comment Comment below or sign in with TypePad Facebook Twitter and more... You are currently signed in as (nobody) . Sign Out (URLs automatically linked.) Your Information (Name and email address are required. Email address will not be displayed with the comment.) Name is required to post a comment Please enter a valid email address Invalid URL Name: Email address: URL: Comment: Blog Rolls Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 More... Categories Addiction ADHD Allergies Alternative Medicine Alzheimers Anger Management Anxiety Disorders Autism Autoimmune Diseases Babies and Toddlers Bladder Control Bladder Infections Books Bottle Introduction/Nipple Confusion Breast Cancer Breast Feeding Cancer Care Cancer in Men Cancer in Women Caregivers Childhood Cancer Children Chronic Illness Clinical Trials Contraception Cord Blood Stem Cells Coughs, Cold and Flu Crafts for Health Critical Care Death and Dying Degenerative Diseases Delivery Depression Dermatology Issues Developmental Disorders Diabetes Diet & Exercise Disclaimer Elder Care Empowering Women Epidurals Fertility Food & Weight Free Offers Genetics Grieving Guest Writers GYN H1N1 Health Health Professionals Healthcare Heart Heavy Periods Heros Herpes Home Remedies Hormones Hospice Hot flashes/Night sweats Infections Insurance Issues Laughter Medical Screening Tests Medications Melanoma Men & Women Menopause Menstrual Cycle Mental Health Migraines Miscarriage Mom 2 Mom Newborns Nurse Barb Videos Nutrition Orthopedic Osteoporosis Parenting Parkinson's Disease PCOS Pelvic Health Postpartum Pregnancy Pregnancy Questions Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy: What to Avoid Premature Labor Prescription Medications Prostate Cancer Psychological Stress Quit Smoking Safety Alerts Sexuality Sexually Transmitted Infections Sleep Stress Stroke Substance Abuse Swine Flu Teens Television Appearances Twins Ultrasound Vaccines Videos Vitamins and Supplements Vulvar Pai