
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Sun-ONE-Web-Server/6.1
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 22:29:24 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Set-cookie: adxcs=s*17d5b=0:1|si=0:1|s*28144=0:5|s*28145=0:5|s*2814b=0:3|s*28146=0:5|s*2814a=0:5|s*28147=0:5|s*2814e=0:5|s*2814d=0:5|s*2c0ee=0:1|s*2c0ed=0:3; path=/; domain=.nytimes.com
Connection: close

Arthritis - Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment of Arthritis - NY Times Health Information Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Health Guide World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Research Fitness & Nutrition Money & Policy Views Health Guide Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Search Health 3,000+ Topics Send Feedback Health > Times Health Guide > a > Arthritis Arthritis Overview Alternative Names Causes Symptoms Exams and Tests Treatment Outlook (Prognosis) Possible Complications When to Contact a Medical Professional Prevention References News & Features Reporter's File Expert Q & A Questions for Your Doctor Clinical Trials Multimedia Video TimesCast | August 16, 2010 Interactive Feature Patient Voices: Rheumatoid Arthritis Interactive Feature Patient Voices: Psoriasis MORE MULTIMEDIA Knee Joint Replacement Find a Doctor at UCompareHealthCare.com » Compare Drugs Find the safest and most cost-effective drugs for this condition. Go to ConsumerReports.org Best Buy Drugs » Related Topics Joint Pain Rheumatoid Arthritis Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Scleroderma Psoriatic Arthritis Ankylosing Spondylitis Reactive Arthritis Adult Still's Disease Viral Arthritis Gonococcal Arthritis Lyme Disease - Chronic Persistent Tuberculous Arthritis Blastomycosis Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty Illustrations Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis &nbsp; Rheumatoid Arthritis Normal Knee Joint &nbsp; Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Hand Osteoarthritis Vs. Rheumatoid Arthritis &nbsp; Arthritis in Hip Synovial Fluid in the Knee Joint &nbsp; Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Knee Joint &nbsp; Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. A joint is the area where two bones meet. There are over 100 different types of arthritis. See also: Joint pain Times Essentials Recent findings and perspectives on medical research. Reporter's File Cautious Optimism for Sufferers of Joint Pain By ALIYAH BARUCHIN Scientific misperceptions have slowed the arrival of new treatments for osteoarthritis. Gene studies may change that. Expert Q & A Obesity's Hidden Toll on Joints Questions for Your Doctor What to Ask About Osteoarthritis Clinical Trials Selected Studies: Osteoarthritis See All » News & Features Supply of Methotrexate, a Cancer Drug, May Run Out Soon Amgen’s New Enbrel Patent May Undercut Health Care Plan Can Fish Oil Supplements Help Ease Joint Pain? Parent Ruling on the Drug Humira Is Reversed Reference from A.D.A.M. Back to Top Alternative Names Joint inflammation Back to Top Causes Arthritis involves the breakdown of cartilage. Cartilage normally protects a joint, allowing it to move smoothly. Cartilage also absorbs shock when pressure is placed on the joint, such as when you walk. Without the normal amount of cartilage, the bones rub together, causing pain, swelling (inflammation), and stiffness. Joint inflammation may result from: An autoimmune disease (the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue) Broken bone General "wear and tear" on joints Infection, usually by bacteria or virus Usually the joint inflammation goes away after the cause goes away or is treated. Sometimes it does not. When this happens, you have chronic arthritis. Arthritis may occur in men or women. Osteoarthritis is the most common type. See: Osteoarthritis Other, more common types of arthritis include: Ankylosing spondylitis Gonococcal arthritis Gout Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (in children) Other bacterial infections ( nongonococcal bacterial arthritis ) Psoriatic arthritis Reactive arthritis ( Reiter syndrome ) Rheumatoid arthritis (in adults) Scleroderma Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) Back to Top Symptoms Arthritis causes joint pain, swelling, stiffness, and limited movement. Symptoms can include: Joint pain Joint swelling Reduced ability to move the joint Redness of the skin around a joint Stiffness, especially in the morning Warmth around a joint Back to Top Exams and Tests The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your medical history. The physical exam may show: Fluid around a joint Warm, red, tender joints Difficulty moving a joint (called "limited range of motion") Some types of arthritis may cause joint deformity. This may be a sign of severe, untreated rheumatoid arthritis. Blood tests and joint x-rays are often done to check for infection and other causes of arthritis. Your doctor may also remove a sample of joint fluid with a needle and send it to a lab for examination. Back to Top Treatment The goal of treatment is to reduce pain, improve function, and prevent further joint damage. The underlying cause cannot usually be cured. LIFESTYLE CHANGES Lifestyle changes are the preferred treatment for osteoarthritis and other types of joint inflammation. Exercise can help relieve stiffness, reduce pain and fatigue, and improve muscle and bone strength. Your health care team can help you design an exercise program that is best for you. Exercise programs may include: Low-impact aerobic activity (also called endurance exercise) Range of motion exercises for flexibility Strength training for muscle tone Physical therapy may be recommended. This might include: Heat or ice Splints or orthotics to support joints and help improve their position; this is often needed for rheumatoid arthritis Water therapy Massage Other recommendations: Get plenty of sleep. Sleeping 8 to 10 hours a night and taking naps during the day can help you recover from a flare-up more quickly and may even help prevent flare ups. Avoid staying in one position for too long. Avoid positions or movements that place extra stress on your sore joints. Change your home to make activities easier. For example, install grab bars in the shower, the tub, and near the toilet. Try stress-reducing activities, such as meditation, yoga, or tai chi. Eat a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables, which contain important vitamins and minerals, especially vitamin E. Eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acides, such as cold water fish (salmon, mackerel, and herring), flaxseed, rapeseed (canola) oil, soybeans, soybean oil, pumpkin seeds, and walnuts. Apply capsaicin cream over your painful joints. You may feel improvement after applying the cream for 3-7 days. Lose weight, if you are overweight. Weight loss can greatly improve joint pain in the legs and feet. MEDICATIONS Medications may be prescribed along with lifestyle changes. All medications have risks, some more than others. It is important that you are closely monitored by a doctor when taking arthritis medications. Generally, over-the-counter medications are recommended first: Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is usually tried first. Take up to 4 grams a day (two arthritis-strength Tylenol every 8 hours). Do not take more than the recommended dose or take the drug along with a lot of alcohol. Doing so may damage your your liver. Aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that can relieve arthritis pain. However, they have many potential risks, especially if used for a long time. Potential side effects include heart attack, stroke, stomach ulcers, bleeding from the digestive tract, and kidney damage. Prescription medicines include: Biologics are used for the treatment of autoimmune arthritis. They include etanercept (Enbrel), infliximab (Remicade), adalimumab (Humira), abatacept (Orencia), rituximab (Rituxan), golimumab (Simponi), certolizumab (Cimzia), and tocilizumab (Actemra). These drugs can improve the quality of life for many patients, but can have serious side effects. Corticosteroids ("steroids") help reduce inflammation. They may be injected into painful joints or given by mouth. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are used to treat autoimmune arthritis. They include methotrexate, gold salts, penicillamine, sulfasalazine, and hydroxychloroquine. Immunosuppressants such as azathioprine or cyclophosphamide are used to treat patients with rheumatoid arthritis when other medications have not worked. It is very important to take your medications as directed by your doctor. If you are having difficulty doing so (for example, because of side effects), you should talk to your doctor. Also make sure your doctor knows about all the medicines you are taking, including vitamins and supplements bought without a prescription. SURGERY AND OTHER TREATMENTS In some cases, surgery may be done if other treatments have not worked. This may include: Arthroplasty to rebuild the joint Joint replacement, such as a total knee joint replacement Back to Top Outlook (Prognosis) A few arthritis-related disorders can be completely cured with proper treatment. Most forms of arthritis however are long-term (chronic) conditions. Back to Top Possible Complications Complications of arthritis include: Long-term (chronic) pain Disablity Difficulty performing daily activities Back to Top When to Contact a Medical Professional Call your doctor if: Your joint pain persists beyond 3 days. You have severe unexplained joint pain. The affected joint is significantly swollen. You have a hard time moving the joint. Your skin around the joint is red or hot to the touch. You have a fever or have lost weight unintentionally. Back to Top Prevention Early diagnosis and treatment can help prevent joint damage. If you have a family history of arthritis, tell your doctor, even if you do not have joint pain. Avoiding excessive, repeated motions may help protect you against osteoarthritis. Back to Top References D'Cruz DP, Khamashta MA, Hughes GR. Systemic lupus erythematosus. Lancet . 2007;369(9561):587-96. Hunter DJ, Lo GH. The management of osteoarthritis: an overview and call to appropriate conservative treatment. Med Clin North Am . 2009;93:127-43, xi. Huizinga TW, Pincus T. In the clinic. Rheumatoid arthritis. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Jul 6;153(1):ITC1-1-ITC1-15. More Information on This Topic News & Features Reporter's File Expert Q & A Questions for Your Doctor Clinical Trials Review Date: 2/14/2011 Reviewed By: Michael E. Makover, MD is a professor and attending in rheumatology at the New York University Medical Center, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch). A.D.A.M. Copyright The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- 2008 A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. SHARE Print E-MAIL Well What Doctors and Patients Don't Want to Talk About March 8, 2012, 1:30 PM Shark Cartilage May Contain Toxin March 7, 2012 When Hospital Visitors Get Sick March 7, 2012 Getting Fat but Staying Fit? March 7, 2012 A Heart Helper May Come at a Price for the Brain March 5, 2012 More Blog Headlines » Health & Fitness Tools BMI Calculator What's your score? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH E-Mailed Blogged Preschoolers in Surgery for a Mouthful of Cavities Well: Getting Fat but Staying Fit? Hospital Groups Will Get Bigger, Moody’s Predicts Well: A Heart Helper May Come at a Price for the Brain Well: Shark Cartilage May Contain Toxin Well: Why It's So Important to Keep Moving Yoga and Sex Scandals: No Surprise Here The New Old Age: Weighing the Chances at Life's End Recipes for Health: Vegetarian Spring Rolls With Shredded Kohlrabi Well: How 1-Minute Intervals Can Improve Your Health Go to Complete List » Rise in Preschool Cavities Prompts Anesthesia Use Amateur Biologists Are New Fear in Making a Mutant Flu Virus Hospital Groups Will Get Bigger, Moody's Report Says Go to Complete List » Health Around the Web Powered by BlogRunner Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2012 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms o