
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 06 Mar 2012 23:57:56 GMT
Server: Apache
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: lang=deleted; expires=Mon, 07-Mar-2011 23:57:55 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: jfcookie=deleted; expires=Mon, 07-Mar-2011 23:57:55 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: jfcookie[lang]=en; expires=Wed, 07-Mar-2012 23:57:56 GMT; path=/
Last-Modified: Tue, 06 Mar 2012 23:57:57 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Antibiotics and Ear Infections | Antibiotics Font+ Reset Font- Home Find a Chiropractor Wellness Articles Chiropractic Research Wellness Research Home Wellness Articles Antibiotics Antibiotics and Ear Infections Antibiotics and Ear Infections Labels: Issue #23 , Antibiotics , Author Linda Folden Palmer, DC Written by Linda Folden Palmer, DC Tuesday, 01 September 2009 00:00 In cases where the immune response lags behind a bacterial infection that is dangerously decimating the body, the 1950s advent of antibiotic medications saved the lives of millions of people who would have otherwise succumbed. However, the overzealous use of these wonder drugs has now created a new realm of powerful diseases we are unable to fight with existing antibiotics. Once a resistant bacteria has been created in response to antibiotic therapy, it has the power to transfer its resistance to other microbes, developing new resistant strains. This has been an especially significant issue for the young, who have been chief targets for antibiotic misuse because they are more susceptible to infections and infections are more worrisome in them. Powerful, antibiotic-resistant strains spread easily around day care centers. Tuberculosis and pneumonia were once conquered with antibiotics, but we are now threatened again by TB epidemics and increased pneumonia deaths. The excitement over antibiotics has also led to reduced hygiene in hospitals. Hospital sanitation peaked decades ago, when its importance was first widely recognized. Now 10 percent of the patients in hospitals acquire infections, a large portion of which are resistant to antibiotics due to their expansive use in hospitals. Three percent of these patients die from their infections. Antibiotics have many possible side effects, including diarrhea, malabsorption, cramping, yeast infections, agitation, rashes and blood disorders. By wiping out much of the normal flora throughout the body, antibiotics leave patients, especially children, far more vulnerable to other infections, such as thrush (oral yeast), and dangerous intestinal microbes that cause diarrheal illness. Infectious diarrhea follows antibiotic use at rates ranging from 5 to 39 percent, depending on the drug. The most common intestinal infection caused by antibiotics is colitis from clostridium infection, which has a 3.5 percent mortality rate. Significantly, antibiotics are generally inappropriate for treating ear infections. They have no effect on viruses and are certainly inappropriate for colds and flus, where they can lead to secondary infection. Yet the majority of children visiting physicians with these complaints will receive antibiotic prescriptions. This is unfortunate. Most of the time, children are better off left to fight illness with their own immune systems, while their parents and physician provide careful monitoring. About the Author: Dr. Linda Folden Palmer is a doctor of chiropractic, a consultant and  speaker on pediatric nutrition and natural parenting challenges, a  science writer and a mother. She left her chiropractic practice shortly  after the birth of her son, when she was confronted with his serious  health complications and astounded by the lack of accurate or helpful  information from doctors or books. For her son’s sake, she delved deeply  into the scientific and medical literature to find answers…which led to  further questions and some astonishing realizations. Read about her  work here: babyreference.com. View article references and author  information here: pathwaystofamilywellness.org/references.html . This article was adapted with permission from The Baby Bond: The New  Science Behind What’s Really Important When Caring for Your Baby © 2009  by Linda Folden Palmer. This article appeared in Pathways to Family Wellness magazine, Issue #23. To purchase this issue, Order Here . Share this page on your favorite Social Bookmarking websites Subscribe to Pathways to Family Wellness Magazine . Find a Doctor of Chiropractic for your family . Find a Holistic Family Practitioner in your area . Chiropractic Testimonials Pathways Blog Wellness Newsletter Links and Allies Pathways Magazine About the ICPA Related Articles FDA: Antibiotics in Livestock Affects Human Health Norway Conquers Infections by Cutting Use of Antibiotics When the Best Medication for Kids Is No Medication at All Asthma and Ear Infections Chiropractic and Ear Infections: What We Offer Makes a Difference Contact the ICPA Legal Disclaimer D.C. Website Site Map Copyright 2006-2010 International Chiropractic Pediatric Association. Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. All rights reserved. This site is mad