
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
X-Cache-Lookup: MISS from sc2.fccinteractive.com:80
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 06:52:40 GMT
Connection: close

Mathison: For safety, just say ‘no’ to ear candles | INFORUM | Fargo, ND Subscribe to The Forum | Visit WDAY.com | North Dakota's #1 news website! 10,877,776 pages — February 2012 Site jobsHQ carsHQ apartmentsHQ homesHQ Web Top Searches: robin huebner bankruptcies north dakota bankruptcies american gold Cass County divorces movie lost Classifieds Marketplace JobsHQ CarsHQ HomesHQ ApartmentsHQ NorthlandOutdoors Agweek Home Calendar Contact Email Alerts Mobile Alerts Newspaper Prints RSS Feeds Subscribe Weather News accidents aviation construction corrections crime education energy environment fire flood government legislature military politics september 11 technology traffic weather Sports baseball Bison cobbers dragons football force golf gophers High school sports hockey Marathon outdoors racing RedHawks running softball track twins UND vikings wrestling Opinion Cartoons Editorials Jack Zaleski James Ferragut Jane Ahlin letters Lloyd Omdahl Matthew Von Pinnon SheSays ajit berg Andrea Hunter Halgrimson books family food fundraisers Garden health home mary jo hotzler Michelle Turnberg nicole phillips pets Reviews Roxane Salonen Susan Mathison Tammy Swift tracy frank Variety arts books entertainment events fundraisers Movies music Religion Travel Business banking briefs its my job manufacturing money nonprofits retail Trade Talk Obituaries Celebrations anniversaries birthdays Births engagements open houses scouts showers Weddings Columns Andrea Halgrimson Bob Lind Carol Bradley Bursack Devlyn Brooks Jack Zaleski John Lamb Matthew Von Pinnon Parenting Perspectives Political Notebook Steve Wagner Sue Doeden Tammy Swift Agriculture agriculture Farmers Forum hortiscope James Dulley Julie Garden-Robinson Kovels Antiques Pet Care Val Farmer Classifieds Events arts events hot ticket music Theater Print E-mail Published February 15, 2012, 11:30 PM Mathison: For safety, just say ‘no’ to ear candles Despite being a traditionally trained physician, I consider myself open to many complementary therapies. By: Dr. Susan Mathison, Areavoices blogger , INFORUM Dr. Susan Mathison Dr. Susan Mathison Despite being a traditionally trained physician, I consider myself open to many complementary therapies. I appreciate the value of meditation to soothe the nervous system, of prayer and visualization to improve to improve surgical outcomes, and of massage, physical therapy and chiropractic treatment to improve our physical bodies. I think nutritional supplements and even more importantly, the foods that we eat are vital to health and well-being. But when I read on Facebook of someone touting the wonders of ear candles to “cure” ear wax and hearing loss, I just have to say NO. I have personal experience caring for a young woman who severely burned her ear canal while using and ear candle. She had extreme pain, hearing loss and required general anesthesia for removal of the candle wax that dripped into her canal. Recovery took several weeks. For those of you who are unfamiliar with ear candles or ear cones, they are made of fabric soaked in wax and shaped to form a hollow tube. In theory, the combination of heat and suction is supposed to remove ear wax. Technically marketed “for entertainment or recreational use,” ear candles have been touted to relieve sinus pain, cure ear infections, help relieve tinnitus and vertigo, and even strengthen the brain. While ear candles are widely available in the U.S., selling or importing them with medical claims is illegal. This means that one cannot market ear candles as products that “Diagnose, cure, treat or prevent any disease.” Health Canada states “There is no scientific proof to support claims that ear candling provides medical benefits. ... However, there is plenty of proof that ear candling is dangerous.” The patient lies on one side with the treated ear uppermost and the candle vertical. The candle is sometimes stuck through a paper plate or aluminum pie tin to protect against any hot wax or ash falling onto the subject. This “candle” is placed in the ear and burned down to a stub 2-4 inches long. The process takes 20-30 minutes. After the procedure is finished, a brown waxy substance, believed by ear candling practitioners to be a mixture of ear wax, debris and bacteria, is left in the candle stub. Scientific studies show that this is not true. The residue and debris left in the stub is simply the melted wax and burned fabric from the candle itself. Research has also shown that no vacuum effect is created. Locally I have seen this procedure offered by beauty salons and spas, as well as massage therapists. Some people order them off the internet for home use. Since it seems to cause so much trouble, why do we have ear wax? The scientific name is cerumen, and it’s  produced in the outer third of the ear canal. It is a mixture of sebaceous secretions and skin cells. Fear, stress and anxiety result in increased production of earwax. Earwax can have a soft caramel-like wet consistency, or be dry and flaky. Genetics play a role here.  The wet type is dominant and found in people of Caucasian and African descent, while the dry type, is recessive and noted more in Asians and Native Americans. The ear canal is meant to be self-cleaning, as skin cells migrate from the tympanic membrane out the ear canal. Wax in the canal also moves outward as the skin underneath grows outward, taking with it dirt, dust and any particulate matter that may have gathered. I always tease little kids that earwax keeps the bugs out. Earwax lubricates the skin, and seems to minimize bacterial and fungal growth in the canal. Movement of the jaw causes some movement of the cartilage of the ear can and facilitates the natural cleaning process. Here are my tips for clean ears: Don’t worry about it unless the wax is causing discomfort or blockage. Yes, use your washcloth the wipe the bowl of your ear, but like Mom said, don’t put anything smaller than your elbow inside your ear canal. Cotton swabs usually push the wax further into the canal, especially if you have wet wax. Softeners in the form of drops like Debrox seem to emulsify the wax and help it come out. I also sometimes suggest a couple of drops of olive oil once a week if you have hard dry wax. If you get itching ears, especially after swimming, white vinegar drops are useful. Don’t put anything in your ears or your child’s ears if tubes or a perforation is present. Professional help is sometimes needed. Your family doctor may be able to flush out the wax with a syringe. Make sure the water is body temperature or it could make you dizzy. Stubborn wax might mean a trip to an ear-nose-throat specialist, where a microscope and special tools or suction is used to get the wax out. But please, no ear candles! Dr. Susan Mathison founded Catalyst Medical Center in Fargo and created  PositivelyBeautiful.com. Tags: susan mathison , health , columns , shesays TOP ADS LARGE Construction Equipment & Truck Auction ** Thursday, April 5. 10:00 AM Want to Rent: Farm Land RRV Farmland - 1,750 Acres, Norman County, MN. *FOR SALE* GOLD DIGGER TILE PLOWS LAND AUCTION,  74 +/- Acres,  Pennington County, Minnesota Showing 5 of 43 » Show All Most Read Most E-mailed Doctor accused of drugging, sex abuse asks to withdraw Alford pleas Fargo woman 'marries' herself in symbolic ceremony Sioux launch improbable rally against Gophers Exploring beauty beyond boundaries of age Gay rights advocate to run for North Dakota House Fargo hits record high temperature of 76 on Friday, warm weekend ahead Sioux launch improbable rally against Gophers Oil firms push back on new North Dakota rules Sections Home News Sports Opinion SheSays Variety Business Obituaries Celebrations Columns Agriculture Classifieds Events About Advertising Information Comments/Questions FCC Careers Privacy Statement Terms & Conditions Tools & Features Calendar Mobile Deals Email Alerts RSS Feeds Archive Video Photo Galleries Mobile Site FCC Digital Network Jobshq.com Carshq.com Apartmentshq.com Homeshq.com Northlandoutdoors.com Agweek.com Areavoices.com INFORUM 101 5th Street North, Fargo, ND 58102 | Phone: (701) 235-