
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 10:16:09 GMT
Server: Apache
Keep-Alive: timeout=15, max=887
Connection: Keep-Alive
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

e3da Migraine headache | Encyclopedia of Alternative Medicine | Find Articles FIND ARTICLES IN THE INTERACTIVE BUSINESS NETWORK RESOURCE LIBRARY Money Library http://findarticles.com/ Business Money Life & Health Search Departments Business Reference Technology News Popular Publications Economic Review Entrepreneur Business Wire Chief Executive, The Market Wire Departments Economy Careers Saving Spending Investing Retirement Popular Publications Better Nutrition Natural Health New American, The Encyclopedia of ... Real Estate Weekly Departments Arts Home & Garden Autos Sports Health Popular Publications New York Times Upfront Health Management Technology Automotive Manufacturing & ... Sierra Automotive Industries FindArticles / Encyclopedia of Alternative Medicine / Apr 06, 2001 Migraine headache by Belinda Rowland Tweet 1 2 3 Next More Articles of Interest Mutual Fund Companies Don Yacktman's Wild Ride - fall of a fund manager The ABCs of RRSPs: contribution room, spousal plans, self-directed plans…they're all addressed here - RRSPs Best of the Premium Credit Cards Market Wire Migraine is a type of headache marked by severe head pain lasting several hours or more. Migraine is an intense, often debilitating type of headache. The term migraine is derived from the Greek work hemikrania, meaning "half a head." Migraines affect as many as 24 million people in the United States, and are responsible for billions of dollars in lost work, poor job performance, and direct medical costs. Approximately 18% of women and 6% of men experience at least one migraine attack per year. Currently, one American in 11 now suffers from migraines, more than three times as many are women, with most of them being premenopausal. Migraines often begin in adolescence, and are rare after age 60. Two types of migraine are recognized. Eighty percent of migraine sufferers experience "migraine without aura" (common migraine). In "migraine with aura," (classic migraine), pain is preceded or accompanied by visual or other sensory disturbances, including hallucinations, partial obstruction of the visual field, numbness or tingling, or a feeling of heaviness. Symptoms are often most prominent on one side of the body, and may begin as early as 72 hours before the onset of pain. The physiological basis of migraine has proved difficult to uncover. There are a multitude of potential triggers for a migraine attack, and recognizing one's own set of triggers is the key to prevention. The most widely accepted hypothesis of migraine suggests that a migraine attack is precipitated when pain-sensing nerve cells in the brain (called nociceptors) release chemicals called neuropeptides. At least one of the neurotransmitters, substance P, increases the pain sensitivity of nearby nociceptors. Other neuropeptides act on the smooth muscle surrounding cranial blood vessels. This smooth muscle regulates blood flow in the brain by relaxing or contracting, thus dilating (enlarging) or constricting the enclosed blood vessels. At the onset of a migraine headache, neuropeptides are thought to cause muscle relaxation, allowing vessel dilation and increased blood flow. Other neuropeptides increase the leakiness of cranial vessels, allowing fluid leak, and promote inflammation and tissue swelling. The pain of migraine is thought to result from this combination of increased pain sensitivity, tissue and vessel swelling, and inflammation. The aura seen during a migraine may be related to constriction in the blood vessels that dilate in the headache phase. Susceptibility to migraine may be inherited. A child of a migraine sufferer has as much as a 50% chance of developing migraines. If both parents are affected, the chance rises to 70%. However, the gene or genes responsible have not been identified, and many cases of migraine have no obvious familial basis. It is likely that whatever genes are involved set the stage for migraine, and that full development requires environmental influences, as well. Triggers A wide variety of foods, drugs, environmental cues, and personal events are known to trigger migraines. It is not known how most triggers set off the events of migraine, nor why individual migraine sufferers are affected by particular triggers but not others. Common food triggers include: cheese alcohol caffeine products, as well as caffeine withdrawal chocolate fods with an extremely high sugar content dairy products fermented or pickled foods ctrus fruits nuts processed foods, especially those containing nitrites, sulfites, or monosodium glutamate (MSG) environmental and event-related triggers include: sress or time pressure menstrual periods, menopause sleep changes or disturbances, including oversleeping prolonged overexertion or uncomfortable posture hunger or fasting odors, smoke, or perfume strong glare or flashing lights Drugs which may trigger migraine include: oral contraceptives estrogen replacement therapy Theophylline Reserpine Nifedipine Indomethicin Cimetidine oversuse of decongestants analgesic overuse benzodiazepine withdrawal Migraine without aura may be preceded by elevations in mood or energy level for up to 24 hours before the attack. Other pre-migraine symptoms may include fatigue, depression, and excessive yawning. Aura most often begins with shimmering, jagged arcs of white or colored light progressing over the visual field in the course of 10-20 minutes. This may be preceded or replaced by dark areas or other visual disturbances. Numbness and tingling is common, especially of the face and hands. These sensations may spread, and may be accompanied by a sensation of weakness or heaviness in the affected limb. Migraine pain is often present only on one side of the head, although it may involve both, or switch sides during attacks. The pain is usually throbbing, and may range from mild to incapacitating. It is often accompanied by nausea or vomiting, painful sensitivity to light and sound, and intolerance of food or odors. Blurred vision is also common. The pain tends to intensify over the first 30 minutes to several hours, and may last from several hours to a day, or longer. Afterward, the affected person is usually weary, and sensitive to sudden head movements. Migraine is diagnosed by a careful medical history. So far, lab tests and imaging studies such as computed tomography (CT scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans have not been useful for identifying migraine. However, for some patients, these tests may be needed to rule out a brain tumor or other structural causes of migraine headache. At the onset of symptoms, the migraine sufferer should seek out a quiet, dark room and attempt to sleep. Placing a cold, damp cloth or a cold pack on the forehead may help. Additionally, tying a headband tightly around the head can relieve migraines. Migraine headaches are often linked with food allergies or intolerances. Identification and elimination of the offending food or foods can decrease the frequency of migraines and/or alleviate these headaches altogether. Alternative treatments for migraine include: Acupressure. Pressing on the Gates of Consciousness (GB 20) points can relieve migraine. Acupuncture. A National Institutes of Health (NIH) panel concluded that acupuncture may be a useful treatment for headache. Aromatherapy. The essential oil rosemary eases migraine pain. Cognitive behavior therapy. Herbals. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis), passionflower (Passiflora incarnata), feverfew (Chrysanthemum parthenium), ginger, ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba), goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis), hawthorn (Crataegus oxyacantha), linden, wood betony (Stachys officinalis), skullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora), or cramp bark  (Viburnum opulus) may relieve migraines. Hydrotherapy. Contrast showers, in which a short hot shower is followed by a longer cold shower, may halt an oncoming migraine. A hot enema can temporarily relieve migraine pain. Relaxation techniques. Meditation, yoga, hypnosis, visualization, breathing exercises, or progressive muscular relaxation may halt the progression of a migraine. Supplements. Clinical studies have shown that vitamin B2 (riboflavin), magnesium, 5-HTP, or melatonin can reduce the severity of migraines. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve) are helpful for early and mild headache. Exedrin Migraine is a combination product that is indicated for migraine headache. More severe or unresponsive attacks may be treated with ergotamine (botulinum toxin), dihydroergotamine, sumatriptan (Imitrex), beta-blockers and calcium channel-blockers, antiseizure drugs, antidepressants (SSRIs), meperidine, or metoclopramide. Some of these drugs are also available as nasal sprays, intramuscular injections, or rectal suppositories when vomiting prevents taking the drug by mouth. Continued use of some anti-migraine drugs can lead to "rebound headache," marked by frequent or chronic headaches, especially in the early morning hours. Rebound headache is avoided by using anti-migraine drugs under a doctor's supervision, with the minimum dose necessary to treat symptoms. Tweet 1 2 3 Next Search All ResourceLibrary Business Business Reference Technology News Money Economy Careers Saving Spending Investing Retirement Life & Health Arts Home & Garden Autos Sports Health Most Recent  Publications Encyclopedia of Alternative Medicine American Fitness Risk & Insurance Real Estate Alert Running & FitNews Most Popular  Articles Mutual Fund Companies Don Yacktman's Wild Ride - fall of a fund manager The ABCs of RRSPs: contribution room, spousal plans, self-directed plans…they're all addressed here - RRSPs Best of the Premium Credit Cards Market Wire Most Popular  Publications Money Digest Kiplinger's Personal Finance Magazine Financial Planning Real Estate Alert Market Wire Content provided in partnership with Business Reference Technology Newspaper Economy Careers Saving Spending Investing Retirement Arts Home & Garden Auto Sports Health All RSS Feeds Search © 2011 CBS Interactive. All rights reserved. Pr