Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Melatonin, Does it Really Work? Back to Back Issues Page Sleep Well With 
	Sleepezy Melatonin, Does it 
		Really Work? November 09, 
		2007 Hello and welcome I'm frequently asked about melatonin, why I don't promote it more, because 
after all it's natural isn't it? Melatonin does occur naturally in the body. It's a hormone 
manufactured in the pineal gland at the base of the brain. Melatonin is released 
during darkness and suppressed by bright light, giving us our 24 hour cycle or circadian rhythm . The melatonin we take orally is not natural, it's a synthetic form of 
melatonin. Natural forms of melatonin are available and are extracted from the 
pineal glands of sheep, but these aren't recommended as they could be 
contaminated. Added to that no-one seems to be able to suggest an ideal dose - anything 
from 0.5 to 5 mgs depending where you look. So if you're taking melatonin you 
have to guess how much to take. Melatonin is really only useful when our 24 hour cycle has been disrupted or 
when out natural supply dwindles. It's particularly good for jet lag and for 
shift workers. Elderly people can also benefit as their level of melatonin is 
naturally lower. So that's why I don't particularly recommend melatonin. Although melatonin 
seems a fairly safe sleep aid, it's no good taking it if it's not going to do 
you any good! However there are exceptions, people who tell me melatonin has helped them. 
They're not shift workers and they're not elderly. But they swear that melatonin 
is the best thing since sliced bread! So maybe it's worth a try - after all it 
won't do you any harm. And how much to take! Well... how long is a piece of 
string? Seriously though the experts advise taking 0.1-6 milligrams. It may be a 
good idea to start at about 2 milligrams. There are other better ways to influence your supply of melatonin. The first 
way is to make sure you get enough sunlight early in the day. This drops your 
melatonin level immediately and helps you to be more alert and energetic during 
the day. This in turn raises your melatonin level at night, allowing you to feel 
drowsy and fall asleep easier. The second way is to eat more foods containing tryptophan. Tryptophan is 
converted to serotonin and thus to melatonin. Foods containing tryptophan are 
chocolate, oats, bananas, turkey (and other fowl), dried dates, 
milk, yoghurt, cottage cheese, red meat, eggs, fish, 
poultry, sesame, chickpeas, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, 
spiralling, and peanuts. I used to take Tryptophan for my sleep problems before it was withdrawn from 
the market due to the release of a contaminated batch (and the desire of the FDA 
to have greater control over dietary supplements). Tryptophan is still available 
in some countries, make sure your supply is pure. I've just started testing a new sleep product called "Sleep Tracks ™ ". 
Sleep Tracks was created by a guy who suffered with insomnia most of his life 
and set out to find out everything about his condition and how to overcome it. 
Sleep Tracks is designed for folks who are taking sleeping pills, suffer from 
restless legs, have a mild case of sleep apnea  and those who are stressed 
and anxious. I'll let you know the results next month... watch this space! Catch you next month, take care! Wendy www.just-natural-skincare.com www.natural-ch