Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Medicinal Uses of Valerian Gardens 
        Ablaze Medicinal Uses of Valerian A man travels the world
        over in search of what he needs and returns home to find it....George Moore Custom Search Featured 5-Star Retailer: Additional Valerian Information Growing Valerian Magic & Superstition Herb Index Page Ailment/Remedy Chart Site Map Home Annuals Architectural Elements Backyard Habitat Biennia ls Bonsa i Bulbs Cactus/Xeriscaping Companions Composting Container 
        Gardening Crafts Gardening Q/A Garden 
        Ornamentation Gargoyles Greenhouses Ground Covers Herbs Houseplants Insects/Diseases Landscaping Organics Perennials Ponds Propagation Recipes Roses Seeds Shade Gardens Shrubs/Hedges Tools Trees Vegetables Vines Weeds Wildflowers Wildlife Shop Health Shop at MotherNature.com for thousands of all-natural Health & Wellness products. Buy Top Selling Natural Products at MotherNature.com Get FREE SHIPPING at MotherNature.com on orders over $49. No coupon necessary! Valerian
is a central nervous system relaxer, and as such has been used as a calming
sleep aid for over 1,000 years.  When taken in the proper dosage, Valerian
can induce restful sleep without grogginess the next morning, unlike
prescription drugs that mimic it's properties, such as Valium.  It is also
much safer when used with alcohol, as it doesn't magnify the effects of alcohol
as do it's prescription counterparts.  It is widely used in Europe, and is
rapidly gaining popularity in the United States as more people discover it's
beneficial properties. Valerian root is
the part of the plant that is used for medicinal purposes.  The root can be
distilled into oils and ointments, or dried and used in teas or capsules. 
Please see the links below for specifics on how to make fresh or dried root into
homemade medications.  Obviously, you can also buy prepared Valerian online
or at any health food store. Valerian has a
fairly wide range of uses in the home medicine cabinet.   It is an
effective stress reducer, and has benefit in cases of nervous tension,
depression, irritability, hysteria, panic, anxiety, fear, stomach cramping,
indigestion due to nervousness, delusions, exhaustion, and, of course, nervous
sleeplessness.  It also appears to have real benefits in cases of sciatica,
multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, shingles, and peripheral neuropathy, including
numbness, tingling, muscle weakness, and pain in the extremities.  Testing
has also revealed that it eases muscle cramping, rheumatic pain, migraines,
uterine cramps, intestinal colic, and stress-related heart problems and
hypertension.  It has shown some benefit in behavioral problems in both
adults and children, and is used to treat attention deficit disorders,
hyperactivity, anxiety headaches, and bedwetting, and it has shown some promise
in helping reduce thumb sucking and nail biting in children.  It has a
stabilizing effect on blood pressure and can help regulate
arrhythmias. Lastly, Valerian
is useful as a digestive aid, is helpful in cases of gas, diarrhea, and
cramps, and alleviates the pain of ulcers.  In the respiratory tract, it is
believed to be of benefit in reducing the discomfort of asthma
attacks. Valerian is
contraindicated in pregnant and breast feeding women, but otherwise is a safe
herb to use intermittently when needed for stress or sleep related
problems.  It is not recommended that you use it every day, however. 
Overdose is unlikely, so experiment with dosages that work best for you. 
The usual dose with an oil is 1 teaspoon as needed, and with  a tea or
capsule, 1-2 cups or tablets as needed. Founded in 1995, MotherNature.com began with a 
mission to be the leading online information source and e-tailer of vitamins, 
supplements, herbs and other natural and healthy living products. Now under 
private ownership as part of the Naturalist Network, we remain committed to 
helping customers to achieve their health and wellness goals with the highest 
level of service, low prices, and the best selection of natural, organic and 
healthy living products ava