
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 03:57:34 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 15:57:38 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=43200, public
Pragma: cache
Set-Cookie: SQ_SYSTEM_SESSION=oi2059k33mt9t98hg70digjov3; domain=www.nps.org.au; path=/;
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 21:28:40 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1
X-Cache: MISS from nps-px01.squiz.net
X-Cache-Lookup: HIT from nps-px01.squiz.net:80
Via: 1.0 nps-px01.squiz.net:80 (squid/2.6.STABLE21)
Connection: close

Type 1 diabetes - Independent medicines & health information: NPS - Better choices, Better health NPS: Better choices, Better health For a medicinewise Australia Independent. Not-for-profit. Evidence based. Global Navigation Home About Us Careers Contact Us Site Search Advanced search Site Navigation I am ... An individual A health professional Interested in research In the media A job seeker Browse by A-Z ... Conditions Medicines Topics Be MedicineWise ... Medicinewise choices Managing pain Kids' medicine Brand choices Common colds Site Tools Order / subscribe Bookmark + share Home > Conditions > Type 1 diabetes Type 1 diabetes What is type 1 diabetes? Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Monitoring Complications Medicines & treatments Living with Support groups & links Show health professional info Show all related info Type 1 diabetes - Independent medicines & health information Type 1 diabetes Why learn about type 1 diabetes? In Australia, 1 in 700 children has type 1 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes usually starts in childhood or adolescence so it is also called juvenile-onset diabetes — but it can begin at any age. Type 1 diabetes usually runs in families, so if you have a close relative (a parent, brother or sister) with type 1 diabetes, you are more likely to develop it. Find out about type 1 diabetes and what happens to your blood glucose in this condition. Read about the causes of type 1 diabetes , and how it is diagnosed and monitored . In type 1 diabetes, the body makes little or no insulin , leading to high levels of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood. These high blood glucose levels can cause a range of different symptoms , which may cause problems and complications over time if they are not controlled. Apart from type 1 diabetes, there are also two other main types of diabetes: type 2 diabetes gestational diabetes. To find out more, read our information on type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes . While there is currently no cure for type 1 diabetes, it can be controlled by adopting a healthy lifestyle in addition to using injected insulin to control blood glucose levels. Find out how a healthy diet and physical exercise can help you to manage your diabetes Read our in-depth information on the medicine for type 1 diabetes , injected insulin , including its side effects and interactions with medicines known to affect blood glucose . Learn about the types and forms of insulin available , how to inject insulin and insulin pumps . Support groups and a dedicated team of health professionals can help treat and manage your diabetes. Find out who can help with your type 1 diabetes and how and where to find the help you need. Reasonable care is taken to provide accurate information at the date of creation. This information is not intended as a substitute for medical advice from a qualified health professional. Health professionals should rely on their own expertise and enquiries when providing medical advice or treatment. Where permitted by law, NPS disclaims all liability (including for negligence) for any loss, damage or injury resulting from reliance on or use of this information. Read our full disclaimer. References to brands should not be taken as an endorsement by NPS. For consumers 1300 MEDICINE (1300 633 424) Mon-Fri | 9am-5pm AEST Your call will be answered by healthdirect Australia Report a problem with your medicine Call 1300 134 237 Adverse Medicine Events Line Online via Therapeutic Goods Administration For health professionals Guide to medicine information resources Know Your Medicine? Find out the active ingredient and other brand names of your medicines with the NPS Medicine Name Finder © 2012 National Prescribing Service Limited. Funded by the Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing. Footer Navigation About us / Careers / Links / Privacy / Copyright