Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Low back pain exercises Train with me ! . Register Now . Members only . Contact me . Links Article Directory | Home Exercise | Best Diets | Abdominal Exc | Lower Back Exc | Inner Thigh Exc | Useful Articles | A++ Products | Exercise Videos Learn the most effective low back pain exercises today! Before you begin low back pain exercises, a self-evaluation is extremely important. You need to answer the following questions. 1. Did your pain begin with a fall, a twisting injury or when you lifted an object? 2. Do you have numbness or pain extending down your leg? 3. Do you have a sudden loss of bladder or bowel control, or weakness of a leg? If you have answered YES to all 3 questions above, low back pain  exercises are not for you! You may have a herniated disk, and if you  have lost bladder or bowel control, you need to call the hospital since  this might be a medical emergency! This self evaluation before beginning low back pain exercises is by no means a substitute for medical advice, but a great starting point. Why do humans suffer from low back pain? During evolution, man was a quadruped i.e we walked on all fours. As we  began to stand on our 'hind' legs, we freed our hands for work and  gained the dexterity to create civilizations. Since ancient days,  though, people have paid the price of walking upright with their backs. In our modern, industrial society, back pain is  the most common cause of loss of activity among adults under 45. It's  estimated that over 80% of all American workers suffer back pain at  some time during their careers. A routine of low back pain exercises can work very well, along with a program to improve posture and prevent low back strain. Preliminary steps before starting a program of low back pain exercises. Some occupations are more likely to cause low back pain. Truck drivers  sit for long periods while being jostled by vibration; they lead in  back injuries. Nurses are also at high risk; bending over bedsides and  lifting and moving patients is hazardous to the low back. Everyday activities can be dangerous, as well:  even sitting in the wrong manner can be strenous for the lower back!  Expectant mothers find their backs stressed in new ways. Parents  lifting babies and toddlers are also at risk. Minimize the strain on your back with these postural techniques. Don't slouch. Maintain the nautral "arch" in your  lower back whether standing or sitting. Keep the head up, chin away  from the chest and shoulders upright and pushed back, instead of  rounded. Lift with your legs. Don't bend over an object  while picking it up, bend your legs and keep your back straight. Never  twist as you lift! Sit with care. Prolonged sitting in one position  is a back hazard you might not suspect. Lumbar support and periodic  breaks to move around are essential. Sleep with the right posture. When sleeping on the back, a pillow  beneath the knees relieves strain from the lower back. When sleeping on  the sides, a pillow between the knees relieves strain on the lower  back. You also want to choose the best mattress for lower back pain. Control your weight. Being overweight, especially if you have a protruding abdomen, puts added stress on your lower back. Improve flexibility and strength in your lower  back, in addition to overall fitness. Recent studies indicate that the  most important factor in avoiding back injury may be your general  fitness, not the power of your back muscles. This suggests that regular  aerobic exercise, such as walking or swimming, may provide all the  conditioning a healthy back needs. After injury, the first step in getting your back healthy is gentle exercise to improve flexibility. When it may be time for back surgery. In most situations, an operation wouldn't be  considered unless low back pain exercises and other conservative  measures have failed. Surgery is usually reserved for times when a  nerve is pinched, the spinal cord is compressed or there's too much  movement between the spinal bones (vertebrae). Your doctor may  recommend surgery if you have neck or back pain accompanied by symptoms  of nerve damage. Signs and symptoms include: Pain that radiates down your legs (sciatica) or arms. Numbness, weakness or tingling in your arms or legs. Loss of bladder or bowel control. All you have to do is register on my site with your 
              name and primary address to receive a free 
              password to the member’s area Why register with Best Weight Programs? You can also subscribe to my ‘RSS feed’ (no email required) or add to ‘ myyahoo’, ‘mygoogle’ or ‘my msn’ using the links on the top left hand corner of this screen. You will receive all articles, updates and breaking news on weight loss automatically. What's an RSS feed? IF YOU KNOW 1 OR MORE FRIENDS WHO CAN BENEFIT FROM THIS WEBSITE, THEN RECOMMEND THEM AND GET FREE BONUSES! Help spread the word about this site, and get instant access to your ebooks in seconds! Recommend Friends Don't forget to browse the site and register for your free exercise routines, diet plans and much more! Looking for boot camp for women, women's boot camp, womens exercise bootcamp New Jersey ? Join fitness boot camp for women in New Jersey . Looking for a cutting edge nutrition store ? Get the latest and best fitness supplements from Nitin Chhoda's nutrition store Looking for a Physical Therapist in New Jersey ? Contact your New Jersey Physical Therapist by visiting this link Buy the new book on Total Activation - The New 5 Step Fitness Mantra Guide To Exercise Equipment Train with me! . Register now . Members only . Contact me . Links (C) Nitin Chhoda