
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 00:52:06 GMT
Server: HyperConx_Hardened_3.2
Set-Cookie: htscallerid=1ee3a8e2c5111717ef3685c08a66b359; expires=Sun, 31-Mar-2013 00:52:06 GMT; path=/
P3P: CP="NOI DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI STA"
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aloe Vera from Aloe complete made from Whole Leaf Aloe Vera: Ecology Center for Crohns, Probiotics & Garden of Life Home | About Us | More Info | Articles | Archive | Product List | Store Map | Search | Site Map | Why Shop Crohns.net 1-877-240-7528 sales@crohns.net Help 100% Secure Basket In Your Basket: Quantity in Basket: None Member Log-In View Your Saved Baskets Acute Care Added extras Autism BIG 3 DAILY Books Candidiasis Childrens Line Cholesterol Care Crohns Disease Protocol Digestive Essential Fatty Acids Essential Formulas Food Bars Garden of Life: All Products Genova DigestiveTests (Great Smokies) Homeopathics Metagenics Metametrix Tests Nordic Naturals Essential Fatty Acids Nutrition & Immune Support Optimal Wellness GOL Pet Products Prenatal Probiotics Skin Products Sleep & Neurological Balance SPECIALS Spray Vitamins Stress Management Weight Management WHAT IS NEW Women's Health FucoThin Weight Management Acid Reflux Arthritis Autism Candida Constipation Crohn's Disease Crohn's Disease in Children Diarrhea Diverticulitis Dysbiosis Gastritis Inflammatory Bowel Disease Irritable Bowel Syndrome Intestinal Permeability Lactose Intolerance Leaky Gut Disease Small Intestine Bacterial Overgrowth (SIBO) Ulcerative Colitis Associate Services Get Breaking News from Crohns.Net Name: Email: Click Here to Tell a Friend About Crohns.net Click Here Home :  | Crohns Disease Protocol :  | Aloe Concentrate Original Flavor  Aloe Complete  Whole Leaf 1 qt Aloe Vera Juice heals the body inside and outside. Aids Digestion Aloe Concentrate Original Flavor  Aloe Complete  Whole Leaf 1 qt Quantity in Basket: none Code: ALO1000 Retail $24.95 Our Price $19.95 Shipping Weight: 3.50 pounds Easy Autoship Options : Every Month Every 2 Months Every 3 Months Single Order Quantity: PLEASE NOTE: This item is not eligible for FREE SHIPPING Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Concentrate - ALOE COMPLETE - 1qt Aloe Vera helps the body absorb nutrients during digestion, supports the immune system, works as an anti-inflammatory and may have laxative effects. Ingredients: Polysaccharide-Rich Whole Leaf Aloe Vera (Aloe barbadensis) Concentrate Ascorbic Acid Citric Acid Potassium Sorbate (From Mountain Ash Berries) Sodium Benzoate (Food Preservative) PLEASE NOTE: The label for this product from Aloe Complete has not been revised yet.
Although the product label still states otherwise, THIS PRODUCT CONTAINS NO ASCORBIC ACID. Suggested Use of Aloe vera concentrate from Aloe Complete: One tablespoon two or three times daily or as recommended by your Health Care Professional.  Can be consumed plain or mixed with water or your favorite beverage. Read More About Aloe Vera concentrate from Aloe Complete.. Aloe Complete's Aloe Vera Concentrate contains only leaves from the potent Aloe 
Barbadensis Miller Plant.  Unlike some Aloe Juice 
Products, Aloe Complete uses the whole leaf as it 
contains the highest concentration of all the nutrients 
thought to be responsible for Aloe Vera's healing 
qualities. They are 
rich in the more than 200 Biologically Active Nutritional
Components including - but not limited to - Vitamins, 
Minerals, Enzymes, Amino Acids, Glycoproteins and Growth 
Factors believed to act synergistically to impart Aloe Vera's 
powerful benefits. Aloe Complete has been certified by the International 
Aloe Science Council (IASC) for Quality, Purity, 
Activity and Nutritional Content.  The products are 
tested during every stage of the manufacturing and 
bottling process. Recent research by the International Aloe Science Council, Inc (IASC) has uncovered yet another of aloe vera's wonder properties. Study results indicated that aloe preparations greatly improved the absorption of both water and fat soluble vitamins. Aloe can improve the bioavailablity of both Vitamin C & E.
Only the highest quality standardized botanical 
concentrates & natural fruits are used - no artificial 
colors or flavors. Use of Aloe Vera goes back a long, long time. Aloe Vera dates back in history as far as 6000 years ago with evidence of its use recorded in ancient Egyptian drawings. Topical applications for fighting infection, healing cuts and burns along with internal use for its digestive and laxative properties date back to 2000 BC from writings on Sumerian clay tablets. Greek and Egyptian writings later revealed traditional uses of this high sulfur vegetable herb for hair loss, digestion, hemorrhoids, insomnia, kidney ailments, ulcers, gum disease, wounds and more. Aloe Vera is actually a succulent from the garlic family and not a cactus. There are over 300 species. When the entire leaf is processed, all 200 different nutrients are available in just 1 % of the plants juice. 99% of the juice is natural occurring water in the leaves. Aloe Vera in the whole leaf contains 3-5 times more of the active ingredients compared to the inner gel or other commonly found Aloe Vera. The great degree of healing potential of the Aloe Vera plant can be attributed to all of the 200 active elements working synergistically together. The 200 nutrients can be divided into 15 compound groups including vitamins, minerals, enzymes, sterols, growth factors, polysaccharides and yellow sapanthraquinones. All together they promote the healing on the inside as well as on the outside of the body. Digestion is greatly supported with Aloe Vera from Aloe Complete because it is classified as an herbal bitter having a pH of 4.7-5.2. Taken before meals it encourages healthy gastric juices along with hydrochloric acid (HCL) to flow properly, encouraging daily regularity of the bowels and also giving the body anti-inflammatory , anti-viral , and anti-bacterial support. Aloe Vera optimizes digestion and absorption of foods and supplements that we ingest.  Unfortunately, most people, even if eating properly, do not digest and absorb efficiently. Harvard Medical School states that many people do not produce enough valuable hydrochloric acid (HCL) in the stomach - especially over the age of 60 years. HCL is critical for digestion and absorption of protein and minerals from the diet. There is also an important connection between the health of the skin and immune system to digestion and bowel regularity. Once this is understood, then you can see the great value of taking Aloe Complete's Aloe vera concentrate on a regular basis to help prevent disease and illness, increase energy and reverse unhealthy conditions you may be experiencing. Aloe Complete aloe vera concentrate is 100% safe to drink for children, adults, seniors, pregnant women and even pets. Aloe Complete will not interfere with any medical protocol or prescription medicine you may be taking. Nutrients in the yellow sap can encourage the bowels to move more regularly so if you experience loose stools then reduce the daily quantity you ingest. Read more about Aloe Vera & Aloe Complete.... Aloe Vera Nutritional Components of Concentrate Aloe Vera - It's Time To Take A Closer Look Why use Aloe Complete? Aloe Complete Manufacturing Practices Related Item(s) Serrapeptase  120 caps Code: LFR1600 Retail $29.95 Our Price $13.95 Quantity in Basket: none Frequently Asked Questions About Aloe Complete Vera Juice Concentrates Q:	What makes ALOE COMPLETE products different from most Aloe Vera juice beverages? A: ALOE COMPLETE Products are Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Concentrates.  Aloe Complete are made by processing the entire leaf of the species of Aloe that is most beneficial to humans - Aloe Barbadensis Miller - and then removing some of the water.  Most other Aloe products only contain the inner gel to which water is then added.  By utilizing the Whole Leaf, ALOE COMPLETE offers products with a much higher percentage of Biologically Active Nutritional Components. Q:	Why is it important to process the "Whole Aloe Leaf"? A: The rind of the Aloe vera leaf consists of 15-18 layers of cells where there are more than 200 Biologically Active Nutritional Components are manufactured.  These Nutritional Components include Polysaccharides, Vitamins, Minerals, Amino Acids, Enzymes, Glycoproteins and Growth Factors.  The concentrations of these constituents are three to five times greater just under the rind than in the filleted gel. Q:	Why don't all Aloe companies manufacture a Whole Leaf product? A: Most other Aloe companies use only the inner filet to avoid the sap - also produced just under the rind - which contains bitter-tasting, harsh laxatives including aloin and aloe emodin.  Recently, technology has been developed to effectively remove them. Q:	Does ALOE COMPLETE use chemicals to remove the aloin and aloe emodin? A: Aloe Complete remove the anthraquinones by repeatedly passing the pulverized Whole Leaf Aloe through a series of filters until over 99% of the aloin and aloe emodin are removed.  Absolutely no chemicals are used! Q:	How is ALOE COMPLETE aloe vera concentrate processed?  What does "Cold Processed" mean? A: The proper processing of Aloe must result in stabilization.  That means any existing microbes must be eliminated and future microbe growth must be prevented.  In the early days of the Aloe industry, this was accomplished by prolonged heating.  And it worked: the resulting Aloe was free of microbes.  Aloe Complete was also devoid of most, if not all, of its biological activity.  "Cold Process" therefore became the rage.  But the microbes still have to be eliminated and true Cold Processing does that by using harsh chemicals.  Most companies still use heat at some point during the processing.  For ALOE COMPLETE products, we use a proprietary method called HTST or High Temperature Short Time.  The Aloe is heated to a precise, carefully controlled temperature for only 1-3 minutes and then cooled in less than 15 seconds.  The result is stable Aloe Vera that that maintains is biological activity. Q:	Do ALOE COMPLETE products contain preservatives? A: Once Aloe has been properly stabilized Aloe must be preserved or Aloe can become a perfect medium for microbes.  Some of the very components that make Aloe beneficial to humans - the various saccharides - can provide nourishment for microbes.  If a manufacturer of an Aloe product claims there are no preservatives, you can assume one of two things: either it contains little or no Aloe, or it would only remain stable for about one week.  ALOE COMPLETE contains a minute amount of necessary, safe and effective preservative so you can have supreme confidence in a product that is rich in Biologically Active Nutritional Components and stable for an extremely long time. Q:	How is ALOE COMPLETE juice concentrated? A: First, a distinction is required: ALOE COMPLETE is not "made from concentrate" or reconstituted by adding water.  After the Whole Leaf Aloe has been processed, Aloe Complete company carefully vacuum extract an amount of water sufficient to achieve a minimum concentration of approximately 10,000 milligrams of MPS per liter.  The extraction is done at a precise temperature and pressure to maintain Biological Activity. Q:	What is MPS?  Does it stand for Mucopolysaccharide? A: MPS stands for Methanol Precipitable Solids.  It is a quantitative measurement of the Polysaccharides, Glycoproteins and Salts of Organic Acids that precipitate out in the presence of methanol.  Although it is believed that Polysaccharides comprise the majority of these solids, the MPS test is not a one-to-one count of Mucopoly-saccharides, as it was once believed to be. The MPS measurement represents only about 20-25% of the total solids; the rest is comprised of other Biologically Active components including Vitamins, Minerals, Amino Acids, etc. Q:	Why doesn't ALOE COMPLETE concentrate to a higher MPS? A: ALOE COMPLETE products frequently do have a concentration greater than 10,000 milligrams of MPS when made from a particularly potent crop.  Careful consideration and exhaustive research was involved in our decision not to "mechanically" increase the MPS above 10,000 by removing more and more water.  There are several reasons:¨	There is research to suggest that the Polysaccharides, which are long-chain sugars, have a tendency to break down at higher concentrations, possibly reducing their efficacy.¨	Higher concentrations would require more preservatives than that allowed by law, resulting in a product that may not be as stable.¨	According to Aloe expert Dr. Ivan Danhof, an increase in the natural salts at higher concentrations may cause gastrointestinal irritation.¨	We have had outstanding feedback with all ALOE COMPLETE products and believe ALOE COMPLETE offer the optimal level of concentration to achieve desired results. Q:	What is the active ingredient in Aloe juice?  Is there a "magic bullet" in Aloe? A: When people speak of an "active ingredient" in Aloe juice, they are usually referring to a group of long chain sugars formerly called Mucopolysaccharides and more recently referred to as Polysaccharides.  There is a company claims that only one of these long chain sugars, acemannan, is the "magic-bullet" responsible for all of Aloe's benefits.  While Polysaccharides undoubtedly have many amazing properties - they've been shown to be anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, immuno-stimulants, and more - they are just one portion of more than 200 Biologically Active Nutritional Components in Aloe.  Dr. Robert Davis, a prominent Aloe expert, developed a theory to explain the interaction between all these constituents.  According to Davis, the Polysaccharide is the "Conductor" that modulates the activities of the "Orchestra", the Vitamins, Minerals, Enzymes, Amino Acids, Growth Factors and other Nutritional Components. Q:	What is the IASC?  What does its approval tell me about your Aloe? A: The International Aloe Science Council (IASC) is a non-profit, independent third-party organization of Aloe Growers, Manufacturers and Processors that developed rigorous industry standards to insure the Quality, Purity and Activity of Certified Aloe products.  The IASC conducts on-site inspections of harvesting and processing methods.  It performs an audit of the total process including raw materials, formulations, manufacturing procedures, quality control, storage and shipping.  Finally, the IASC conducts benchmark scientific tests for certain minerals, total solids (which is the sum total of all the Nutritional Components) and performs the High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) Test which demonstrates the characteristic E-Peak activity of Whole Leaf Aloe Vera.  IASC Certification is the "Good Housekeeping Seal" of the Aloe industry. Q:	What are the benefits of consuming Aloe Vera Juice? A: For literally thousands of years, scientists and physicians have noted the remarkable properties of Aloe Vera.  It has been used externally for cuts, burns, sores and rashes. When taken internally, many people have reported a variety of benefits including alleviation of some of the symptoms of arthritis, reducing chronic fatigue, stimulation of the immune system, treating gastrointestinal disturbances and more. ALOE COMPLETE company still don't fully understand exactly how Aloe works, but we do know the effects are more than just placebo.  ALOE COMPLETE company also know that there are direct effects and indirect effects that both impart benefits.  Aloe has direct anti-inflammatory and anti-viral properties.  There is even some evidence that Aloe may stimulate T-Cell production in immuno-compromised people.  Aloe indirectly stimulates the immune system by increasing cell wall permeability, allowing nutrients easier access to the cell, while facilitating the removal of toxins.  Many of the micro-nutrients necessary for proper cell metabolism - Vitamins, Minerals, Trace Minerals, Enzymes, Amino Acids, etc. are provided by Aloe.  In all, there are so many potential health benefits currently being investigated it would be impossible to list them all here. Q:	How would you describe ALOE COMPLETE'S Quality Control? A: ALOE COMPLETE Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Concentrates contain only the finest ingredients and are manufactured using the most stringent standards.  In every area ALOE COMPLETE meet, or exceed, the standards set forth by the Good Manufacturing Practices.  Every ALOE COMPLETE product is put through a five day Quality Control Test before each of four stages of the process.  Every parameter of the Aloe is checked, including microbial assay.  Only Aloe that passes in every category is released for the next phase of manufacturing, so you can be extremely confident of the safety, quality and purity of every ALOE COMPLETE product you purchase. Q:	What is ALOE COMPLETE Whole Leaf Aloe Concentrate-Aloe Vera Supreme? A: Aloe Vera Supreme is superior quality Aloe Vera extracted from the Whole Leaf of the Barbadensis Miller variety of Aloe.  ALOE COMPLETE is concentrated to contain a minimum of 10,000 milligrams of MPS per liter.  This nutrient-rich, IASC Certified product is manufactured and bottled according to the strictest quality control guidelines. Q:	What is ALOE COMPLETE Tropical Energy-Aloe Herbal Delight? A: Tropical Energy is Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Concentrate that also contains an Energy Balancing combination of concentrated Botanical Extracts of Chinese Ginseng, Astragalus, Sarsaparilla and Ginger in a delicious blend of Natural Fruit Juice Concentrates of Strawberry, Orange, Mango, Papaya and Pear. Q:	What is ALOE COMPLETE BerryCranCherry-Aloe Herbal Jubilee A: BerryCranCherry is Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Concentrate that also contains a powerful Antioxidant and heart-healthy combination of Concentrated Botanical Extracts of Hawthorne, Bilberry, Schizandra and Acerola Berries in a delicious blend of Natural Fruit Juice Concentrates of Raspberry, Cranberry and Black Cherry. Q:	Which ALOE COMPLETE product is right for me? A: Any of the ALOE COMPLETE products will provide you with a rich source of beneficial and Biologically Active Nutrients.  But if you want some loose guidelines, here goes: For those who have a specific health challenge, try ALOE COMPLETE Aloe Vera Supreme.  People with chronic fatigue, or who tire easily, may consider Tropical Energy.  If you get frequent colds, or have a health challenge involving the circulatory system, try BerryCranCherry.  And since they are all packed with Nutritional Components, you could simply choose the flavor you prefer. Q:	What is the recommended daily serving of ALOE COMPLETE? A: Most people take ALOE COMPLETE one to three tablespoons per day.  ALOE COMPLETE can be consumed "straight" or mixed with your favorite beverage.  ALOE COMPLETE seems best to start out with smaller amounts, then slowly increase and it's a good idea to divide the servings throughout the day.  The people who experience the most dramatic and lasting results are those that consume ALOE COMPLETE on a consistent, daily basis over the long-term. Q:	What makes ALOE COMPLETE a great value? A: Because ALOE COMPLETE is concentrated, you only need ALOE COMPLETE one to three tablespoons per day.  If you consumed from ALOE COMPELETE two to eight ounces of most other Aloe products you might approach the nutritional content of a single tablespoon of ALOE COMPLETE Concentrates. Part of the Crohns.net group of
sites incorporating: Garden
of Life Products | Buy Probiotics | Stress Help Center | Ecology Health Center Call 1-877-240-7528 • Mon-Fri
9 am - 5 pm PST Home | About U