Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding

One of our many treatments! Intersegmental Traction | Mattos Medical Group | Tampa Acupuncture | (813) 871-2950 Try Our New Mobile App Today! For iPhone | For Android Home About us Commercials Radio Show Videos Testimonials Aesthetic Services Weight Loss Microdermabrasion Facials/Peels Carboxitherapy HCG Medical Services Auto Injury Primary Care IV Nutritional Therapy Tampa Chinese Herbal Medicine Tampa Acupuncture Cupping Moxibustion Tui Na Specialties Acupunture Auto Injury Chinese Herbal Pharmacy IV Therapy Weight Loss Staff Management Practitioners Dr.K Mattos bio Dr.Cheesman bio Testimonials Contact Customer Survey Blog Online Store Chronic Pain: you don’t have to adjust your life! Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) One of our many treatments! Intersegmental Traction On June 30, 2010, 
									in Acupuncture , Cupping , Intersegmental Traction , Modalities , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Share Earlier today i was asked what other treatments do i offer for back pain, besides other than Acupuncture , and Tui Na, and Cupping . My response was ” We have many other types of modalities to help you relieve your back pain , not just Acupuncture” and Im very glad i was ask this question. I like to explain some patients about one of many modalities that we love to use with our patients, Intersegmental Traction What is Intersegmental Traction? It is a way of inducing passive motion into the spine for the purpose of stretching spinal joints, increasing mobility. How does Intersegmental Traction work? The patient lies face up on a bench table which has roller-type cams beneath its surface. These rollers can slowly travel the length of the spine, stretching spinal joints. What does Intersegmental Traction feel like? Most patients find this form of treatment to be relaxing and very helpful. The gentle rolling action is restful, exercising the spine without effort. Why is Intersegmental Traction used? Since discs have a poor blood supply, they get nutrients from the circulation of fluids surrounding spinal joints. Fixations prevent this natural circulation and can cause disc thinning and degeneration. Intersegmental traction helps increase and restore necessary elasticity and motion to the spine. Intersegmental Traction is a particularly useful and effective therapy to treat and help prevent painful muscle spasms and muscle guarding specifically in spinal muscles. This also helps to prevent abnormal wear and tear on the vertebral discs and vertebrae which in turn prevent further injury and reduce the arthritis process. Patient Benefits Comfortable and relaxing Increased mobility Improves circulation of spinal fluids Most patients enjoy the relaxing motion and the increased mobility gained from Intersegmental Traction. please email us at info@mattosmedicalgroup.com or call us at 813.871.2950 to schedule your consultation. About the author Kenneth Mattos Visit Authors Website If you enjoyed this article, please consider sharing it! Comments are closed. Customer Survey Recent Posts Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE FOR INSOMNIA Therapeutic effect on combined acupuncture and Chinese medicine for reflux esophagitis Enhance Your Endocrine Health with Acupuncture Effectiveness of Traditional Chinese ‘Gua Sha’ Therapy in Patients with Chronic Neck Pain Testimonials "the facials are AMAZING!! I recommend them to everyone" Tiana C. - Lutz, FL 3/11/10 "I hurt my shoulder from working out too hard, so I went to see Dr.K got some Tuina, cupping done which draws out all the bad toxin by sucking onto the pores, then I got acupuncture done. Looks worse than it is. its not bad, 3 treatments later im feeling 100% back to normal. Thanks Dr.K" Allen T. - Tampa, FL 9/3/10 “When I met Dr.Ken, he took the time to ask about my overall health as well as my specific issues. He made me feel as if he really cared about my long term well being and set out a program that would help me both in the short and long term.” Leo C. Lutz, FL 8/13/10 Read more›› Tags abdominal pain Acupuncture Acupuncture Injection therapy AITs anti-inflammatory Arthritic pain Arthritis Calcium Pyruvate Chinese Herbal Medicine Chronic low back pain Chronic Pain common cold Community style acupuncture cough crushed nerve Cupping diet emotional Fat Burning Film star Ginseng HCG headache hormone imbalance Human Chorionic Gonadotropin hypertension indigestion Inflammation Injection Therapy Injury insect and poisonous snake bite. IV nutritional therapy IVs Krebs Cycle low back pain nutrition painful menstruation painkillers Pain relief physical activity Qi and blood stasis spinal joints spiritual stomach ache Weight Loss Translator Translate to: Arabic Bulgarian Catalan Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Croatian Czech Danish Dutch English Filipino Finnish French German Greek Hebrew Hindi Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Latvian Lithuanian Norwegian Polish Portuguese Romanian Russian Serbian Slovak Slovenian Spanish Swedish Ukrainian Vietnamese Powered by Google Translate . Find Me On Get this widget for your own blog free! Go To Top » Looking for something? Use the form below to search the site: Still not finding what you're looking for? Drop a comment on a post or contact us so we can take care of it! Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Visit our friends! A few highly recommended friends... Acuhut.com – MMG altMD.com – MMG Healthgrades.com-MMG Holisticunited.com-MMG Local healers Spoke.com-MMG Therapynext.com – MMG Voice over services Yelp – Tampa "These days, vitamin C is used most often for preventing and treating the common cold. Some people use it for other... http://t.co/Ug1815F0" — drkennmattos Mattos Medical Group | Tampa Acupuncture | (813) 871-2950 Pages Home About us Aesthetic Services Medical Services Specialties Staff Testimonials Contact Blog Online Store Stay In Touch Site RSS Feed Twitter Facebook LinkedIn More Thanks for dropping by! Feel free to join the discussion by leaving comments, and stay updated by subscribing to the RSS feed . © 2010 Matt