
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2012 01:03:17 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Therapeutic Massage or Facial Rejuvenation at Oakland Acupuncture and Integrative Medicine Clinic (Up to 70% Off) - SideBuy.com View deals on a map (beta) Switch to interactive site Log In Join Now bloomington-in daily deals > grouponus > Therapeutic Massage or Facial Rejuvenation at Oakland Acupuncture and Integrative Medicine Clinic (Up to 70% Off) Therapeutic Massage or Facial Rejuvenation at Oakland Acupuncture and Integrative Medicine Clinic (Up to 70% Off) $50 buy this deal value $110 discount $60 savings 55% Time left: Deal provided by: Grouponus This deal has been viewed: 370 times Highlights: Trained practitioners beautify mugs with facial acupuncture, relax patients with massage & tighten skin with rejuvenation treatment Fine print: Expires Oct  3, 2012 Limit 1 per person per option. Valid only for option purchased. New clients only. 24hr cancellation notice required or $25 fee may apply. See the rules that apply to all deals. Description: Acupuncture is one of the most effective forms of stress relief, easier than escaping to a deserted island and far less expensive than hiring a body double to handle problems for you. Wave goodbye to stress with this Groupon.

Choose Between Two Options $50 for a 90-minute neuromuscular assessment and a therapeutic massage (a $110 value) $75 for a facial-rejuvenation acupuncture with microcurrent treatment (a $250 value) During neuromuscular assessments, trained practitioners examine bodies to identify the root cause of pain and dysfunction. Subsequently, they massage clients to release trigger points which help to soothe muscles and induce relaxation. During facial-rejuvenation treatments, a practitioner consults with clients before strategically inserting acupuncture needles, applying a facial mask, and implementing a facial massage, all to release chi⎯the body’s organic healing process. The rejuvenation treatment aims to tighten loose skin, stimulate collagen growth, reduce stress, and increase energy. Oakland Acupuncture and Integrative Medicine Clinic The trained practitioners at Oakland Acupuncture and Integrative Medicine serve their community by blending Eastern and Western healing methods in a variety of services . Acupuncture treatments targeted to the body or face help to alleviate symptoms of anxiety, insomnia, and fatigue. Needles are inserted into strategic places along the body’s meridians, which liberates chi, the corpus’ healing energy. During massage treatments , a massage therapist analyzes bodies to determine the best course of action, choosing between deep-tissue, Swedish, and shiatsu styles. The clinic also provides seasonal nutrition advice , which shows clients how to fight ailments associated with the weather, such as spring allergies and winter fatigue. Additionally, their motivational interviewing counseling services help clients to set and meet goals in line with the clients' psychological, social, and spiritual needs. Sidebuy ©2012 Sidebuy Technologies inc. All rights reserved. 1.888.333.2720 info@sidebuy.com about About us Contact us Team Feedback for business Group buying websites Merchants Advertisers Investors developers API get API Key API documentation Widgets legal stuff Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Company News Popular cities in United States Atlanta Boston Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Dallas Detroit Denver Houston Las Vegas Los Angeles Miami Minneapolis New Jersey New York Orange County Orlando Philadelphia Phoenix San Diego Salt Lake City San Francisco Seattle Tampa Bay Popular cities in Canada Barrie Brampton Calgary Edmonton Halifax Kingston London, ON Mississauga Montreal Ottawa Regina Saskatoon Toronto Vancouver Victoria Winnipeg Popular cities in United Kingdom Belfast Cambridge Bristol Edinburgh Manchester Sheffield London Newcastle Popular cities in Australia Adelaide Albury Wodonga Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Perth Newcastle NSW Wollongong NSW View more cities Popular group buying websites Groupon Canada Living Social Dealfind WagJag TeamBuy Yourbest