
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 02:29:27 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Win32) JRun/4.0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Souderton Area School District Public Relations Announcements > Pertussis (Whooping Cough) Response Plan At this time we have five confirmed cases of  Pertussis (Whooping Cough), all of which occurred at Lower Salford Elementary  School.  Due to the contagious nature of the disease, the Montgomery  County Health Department has determined that this is an official outbreak.    The Administration has implemented our  Management Response Plan.  The following steps have been taken: The  Souderton Area School District is working closely with the Montgomery County  Health Department on the response to this situation. A  letter was sent home to all Lower Salford families alerting them to this  situation and what precautions should be taken to prevent further cases. Administration  has alerted local pediatrician offices about the situation. The  school will be monitoring attendance and continuing to communicate with the  parents regarding the situation. The  school has informed parents to review their child’s health record to ensure  that their children have the necessary vaccine for Pertussis (Whooping Cough) The  Health Department is making attempts to contact the parents and pediatricians  of students that have been identified as close contacts to the confirmed  Pertussis cases to ensure that they receive preventative medicine  (antibiotics). Cases  of Pertussis will be excluded from school for five days while they are taking  appropriate antibiotics. Due  to a previously scheduled Professional Development/Parent-Teacher Conference  day, students are not in attendance on Wednesday, February 29, 2012. The  school is being extensively disinfected. Additional  information regarding Pertussis: Pertussis,  also known as whooping cough, is a highly contagious respiratory disease. It is  caused by the bacterium Bordetella Pertussis .  Pertussis is known for uncontrollable, violent coughing which often makes it  hard to breathe. After fits of many coughs, someone with Pertussis often needs  to take deep breathes which result in a "whooping" sound. Symptoms  of Pertussis usually develop within 7 – 10 days after being exposed, but  sometimes not for as long as 6 weeks. Pertussis  begins as a mild illness like the common cold. Sneezing, runny nose, low-grade  fever, and mild coughing progress to severe coughing. Some persons have  episodes of rapid coughing followed by a high-pitched whoop as they take a deep  breath. However, not everyone with Pertussis has a whooping cough, especially  very young infants. Severe cough may continue for many weeks despite proper  treatment. Symptoms may be milder in older children and adults. However, Pertussis  can be a serious disease, especially in infants and young children. Complications  can include pneumonia, dehydration, seizures, encephalopathy, and death. Diagnosis  is based on the recovery of the bacteria from nasopharyngeal specimens obtained  early in the course of the disease. Pertussis  is generally treated with antibiotics and early treatment is very important.  Treatment may make your infection less severe if it is started early, before  coughing fits begin. Treatment can also help prevent spreading the disease to  close contacts (people who have spent a lot of time around the infected person)  and is necessary for stopping the spread of Pertussis. Treatment after three  weeks of illness is unlikely to help because the bacteria are gone from your  body, even though you usually will still have symptoms. This is because the  bacteria have already done damage to your body. The  single best control measure is adequate vaccination. This notification should  serve as reminder that Montgomery County Health Department is urging parents to  make sure their children are up to date with their school immunizations. The  deadline for compliance with the new immunization requirements is April 30th  for most school districts. If students are not in compliance with the new  requirements they can be suspended by the school district. Information  about the new Pennsylvania immunization requirements was sent to parents and  healthcare providers throughout the school year. For  a full list of immunization requirements effective Aug. 1 for the 2011-2012  school year is available at: http://www.portal.state.pa.us/portal/server.pt/community/immunizations/14141/school_children_immunizations/557995 For  more information about Pertussis: http://www.cdc.gov/pertussis/index.html HOME | DISTRICT | SCHOOLS | PARENTS / STUDENTS | STAFF | C0MMUNITY © Copyright 2001-2012, Souderton Area School District. All rights reserved. 760 Lower Road Souderton, Pennsylvania 18964-2311 Ph