Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

OurHealthNetwork.com - Sports Orthotics: Skiing 0 items | $0.00 | View Cart Home > Medical Products Store > Medical Products Store Find Products: Select a Body Part Foot Knee Arm/Hand Cosmetic Dermatology Back/Spine Shoulder Physical Therapy General Medical Choose How to Search By Manufacturer Pick Your Condition SELECT * FROM STORE_DEPARTMENTS WHERE PARENT_ID = NULL AND IS_INACTIVE IS NULL ORDER BY LFT Search by Keyword: Medical Products Store Sports Orthotics: Skiing Skiing requires a "pushing away" motion with the feet, and sudden starts and stops. These repetitive actions place stress on the sides of the feet, arches, and ankles. Our orthotics quickly redistribute these abnormal forces to the entire foot, thus protecting the otherwise stressed areas. And equally important, they stabilize and protect the ankles, eliminating fatigue and pain. Shock absorbency is also provided for the knees and lower back. How Our Orthotics Work: This sport requires the foot, ankle, lower leg, and knee to function as one unit, rather than what they really are: many individual joints, muscles, and bones working together in various degrees of harmony. If the feet and ankles are properly aligned, they can provide the support necessary for the structures above to work harmoniously together, and function as a pain-free unit. In order for this to occur, the feet must be in a neutral position, and align properly with the leg at the ankles. If the feet do not align properly, usually due to a biomechanical defect known as pronation, the ankles become weak and turn in or out. This will produce foot and ankle pain, and prevent the fluid and quick movements needed to turn or stop quickly. In constructing our custom-made sports orthotics, we utilize an advanced technology which enables our orthotics to gently maintain the foot in its neutral position, thus stabilizing the ankle, and allowing these structures to align properly with the leg. This helps to prevent ankle sprains, Achilles Tendonitis, shin splints, knee pain, and inflammation of the tendons that run down the front of the ankle into the feet. Our orthotics will also provide semi-flexible support to the arch by "giving" to absorb the shock of each movement, rather than our foot (the orthotic acts in the same way that a shock absorber does on an automobile). When weight is removed from the orthotic the arch returns to its original height, since the material we use has a built-in "memory." This action will help to prevent plantar fasciitis, heel pain, arch pain, and lower back pain. Finally, by providing increased padding and support for the balls of the feet using materials that mimic the action of our own fatty pads, these orthotics will not only provide comfort, but also help to prevent stress fractures, joint pain, and callus pain. Increase Your Endurance and Efficiency: OurFootDoctor.com's custom-made sports orthotics reduce pain and fatigue, help to maintain proper body alignment, and correct for foot and ankle biomechanical defects. This will allow your body to function as a pain-free and harmonious unit, thus increasing your endurance and efficiency. Learn how we fit you with a pair of custom-made sports orthotics for skiing. I'm Ready To Order A set of custom-made sports orthotics for Skiing, designed under the supervision of a board certified podiatrist, is just $189.90. A foam impression kit will be shipped to you for $44.95. When you order now, you will be billed just $44.95 for the foam impression kit. That amount will apply directly toward the purchase of your custom-made sports orthotics. When you return your impression kit along with your self-examination form, you'll be asked to pay the remaining $144.95 with a check or credit card. Product Number: 90014 Price: $44.95 / per kit Quantity: Recommend to a Friend | Newsletter Sign Up | Ask Our Doctor | Medical Conditions | Medical Products Store | Medical Definitions | About Us | Contact Us | Testimonials | Policies © 2006 OurH