Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 01:28:46 GMT
Connection: keep-alive

Stroke-Related Dementia Glossary of Terms with Medical Definitions Home Topics A-Z Slideshow Pictures Image Gallery Medications Quizzes Medical Dictionary Health Topics A-Z Health News First Aid Guides Slideshows All Slideshows Newest Slideshows Pet Slideshows Featured Slideshow Black Widow vs. Brown Recluse See Who Wins View Slideshow » Image Gallery (categories) Allergic Skin Disorders Bacterial Skin Diseases Bites and Infestations Diseases of Pigment Fungal Skin Disease Medical Anatomy and Illustrations Noncancerous, Precancerous & Cancerous Tumors Oral Health Conditions Papules, Scales, Plaques and Eruptions Scalp, Hair and Nails Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Vascular, Lymphatic and Systemic Conditions Viral Skin Disease Additional Skin Conditions Featured Image Picture of Psoriasis A reddish, scaly rash often located over the surfaces of the elbows, knees, scalp, and around or in the ears, navel, genitals or buttocks... View Image Gallery » Medications Vitamins and Supplements All Quizzes Skin Pictures Happiness Human Body Sleep Shingles Featured Quiz The Sex & Love Quiz The brain. The body. The bedroom. What do you know? View Quiz » About Us | Privacy | Site Map February 14, 2012 Follow Us On: home > heart health center > heart health a-z list > stroke-related dementia article > stroke-related dementia glossary Stroke-Related Dementia Main Article Glossary Stroke-Related Dementia Glossary of Terms Understanding Stroke Slideshow Pictures Take the Stroke Quiz The following are health and medical definitions of terms that appear in the Stroke-Related Dementia article . Abnormal: Not normal. Deviating from the usual structure, position, condition, or behavior. In referring to a growth, abnormal may mean that it is cancerous or premalignant (likely to become cancer ). Aging: The process of becoming older, a process that is genetically determined and environmentally modulated. See the entire definition of Aging Alzheimer's disease: A progressive neurologic disease of the brain that leads to the irreversible loss of neurons and dementia. The clinical hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease are progressive impairment in memory, judgment, decision making, orientation to physical surroundings, and language. A working diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is usually made on the basis of the neurologic examination. A definitive diagnosis can be made only at autopsy. On a cellular level, Alzheimer's disease is characterized by unusual helical protein filaments in nerve cells (neurons) of the brain. These odd twisted filaments are called neurofibrillary tangles. On a functional level, there is degeneration of the cortical regions, especially the frontal and temporal lobes, of the brain. See the entire definition of Alzheimer's disease Angiography: A procedure performed to view blood vessels after injecting them with a radioopaque dye that outlines them on x-ray . This technique can be usefully used to look at arteries in many areas of the body, including the brain, neck ( carotids ), heart , aorta , chest , pulmonary circuit, kidneys , gastrointestinal tract, and limbs . Antidepressant: Anything, and especially a drug, used to prevent or treat depression. See the entire definition of Antidepressant Antidepressants: Anything, and especially a drug, used to prevent or treat depression. See the entire definition of Antidepressants Antihypertensive: Something that reduces high blood pressure (hypertension). Anxiety: A feeling of apprehension and fear characterized by physical symptoms such as palpitations, sweating, and feelings of stress. Anxiety disorders are serious medical illnesses that affect approximately 19 million American adults. These disorders fill people's lives with overwhelming anxiety and fear. Unlike the relatively mild, brief anxiety caused by a stressful event such as a business presentation or a first date, anxiety disorders are chronic, relentless, and can grow progressively worse if not treated. See the entire definition of Anxiety Artery: A vessel that carries blood high in  oxygen content away from the heart to the farthest reaches of the body. Since blood in arteries is usually full of oxygen, the hemoglobin in the red blood cells is oxygenated. The resultant form of hemoglobin (oxyhemoglobin) is what makes arterial blood look bright red. See the entire definition of Artery Aspirin: A good example of a tradename that entered  into the language, Aspirin was once the Bayer trademark for  acetylsalicylic acid. See the entire definition of Aspirin Atherosclerosis: A process of progressive thickening and hardening of the walls of medium-sized and large arteries as a result of fat deposits on their inner lining. See the entire definition of Atherosclerosis Atherosclerotic: Pertaining to atherosclerosis, the process of progressive thickening and hardening of the walls of arteries from fat deposits on their inner lining. Atherosclerotic heart disease is the leading cause of death in the US. Binswanger disease: A form of dementia with blood vessel abnormalities in the deep white-matter of the brain causing loss of memory, decreasing cognition, and mood changes. Patients usually show signs of abnormal blood pressure (too high or too low), stroke, blood abnormalities, disease of the large blood vessels in the neck, and disease of the heart valves. Other prominent features of the disease include urinary incontinence, difficulty walking, tremors similar to Parkinson's disease, and depression. Seizures may also occur. See the entire definition of Binswanger disease Bladder: Any pouch or other flexible enclosure that can hold liquids or gases but usually refers to the hollow organ in the lower abdomen that stores urine -- the urinary bladder. The kidneys filter waste from the blood and produce urine, which enters the bladder through two tubes called ureters. Urine leaves the bladder through another tube, the urethra . In women, the urethra is a short tube that opens just in front of the vagina . In men, it is longer, passing through the prostate gland and then the penis . Infection of the bladder is called cystitis . Blood pressure: The blood pressure is the pressure of the blood within the arteries. It is produced primarily by the contraction of the heart muscle . It's measurement is recorded by two numbers. The first ( systolic pressure) is measured after the heart contracts and is highest. The second ( diastolic pressure) is measured before the heart contracts and lowest. A blood pressure cuff is used to measure the pressure. Elevation of blood pressure is called " hypertension ". Bowel: Another name for the intestine. The small bowel and the large bowel are the small intestine and large intestine, respectively. See the entire definition of Bowel Brain: That part of the central nervous system that is located within the cranium ( skull ). The brain functions as the primary receiver, organizer and distributor of information for the body. It has two (right and left) halves called "hemispheres." Cardiovascular: The circulatory system comprising the heart and blood vessels which carries nutrients and oxygen to the tissues of the body and removes carbon dioxide and other wastes from them. See the entire definition of Cardiovascular Cardiovascular disease: Disease affecting the heart or blood vessels. See the entire definition of Cardiovascular disease Carotid: Pertaining to the carotid artery and the  area near that key artery located in the front of the neck though  which blood from the heart goes to the brain. See the entire definition of Carotid Carotid artery: A key artery located in the front of  the neck though which blood from the heart goes to the brain. See the entire definition of Carotid artery Carotid endarterectomy: Endarterectomy (a surgical procedure designed to clean out material occluding an artery) done on the carotid artery (a major artery in the neck that supplies blood to the brain)  to restore normal blood flow through it to the brain and prevent a stroke . Cerebral: Pertaining to the brain, the cerebrum or the intellect. See the entire definition of Cerebral Cerebrovascular: Pertaining to the blood vessels and, especially, the arteries that supply the brain. As in cerebrovascular accident or cerebrovascular disease. Cerebrovascular disease: Disease of the blood vessels and, especially, the arteries that supply the brain. Cerebrovascular disease is usually caused by atherosclerosis and can lead to a stroke. See also atherosclerosis, stroke. Cholesterol: The most common  type of steroid in the body,  cholesterol has gotten something of a bad name. However,  cholesterol is a critically important molecule. See the entire definition of Cholesterol Cognitive: Pertaining to cognition, the process of knowing and, more precisely, the process of being aware, knowing, thinking, learning and judging. The study of cognition touches on the fields of psychology, linguistics, computer science, neuroscience, mathematics, ethology and philosophy. See the entire definition of Cognitive Computed tomography: An x-ray procedure that uses the help of a computer to produce a detailed picture of a cross section of the body. Also called a CT scan or CAT scan . CT scan: Computerized tomography scan. Pictures of structures within the body created by a computer that takes the data from multiple X-ray images and turns them into pictures on a screen. CT stands for computerized tomography. See the entire definition of CT scan Cure: 1. To heal, to make well, to restore to good health. Cures are easy to claim and, all too often, difficult to confirm. 2. A time without recurrence of a disease so that the risk of recurrence is small, as in the 5-year cure rate for malignant melanoma. 3. Particularly in the past, a course of treatment. For example, take a cure at a spa. See the entire definition of Cure Dementia: Significant loss of intellectual abilities  such as memory capacity, severe enough to interfere with social or  occupational functioning. See the entire definition of Dementia Depression: An illness that involves the body, mood, and thoughts, that affects the way a person eats and sleeps, the way one feels about oneself, and the way one thinks about things. A depressive disorder is not the same as a passing blue mood. It is not a sign of personal weakness or a condition that can be wished away. People with a depressive disease cannot merely "pull themselves together" and get better. Without treatment, symptoms can last for weeks, months, or years. Appropriate treatment, however, can help most people with depression. See the entire definition of Depression Diabetes: Refers to diabetes mellitus or, less often, to diabetes insipidus. Diabetes mellitus and diabetes insipidus share the name "diabetes" because they are both conditions characterized by excessive urination (polyuria). See the entire definition of Diabetes Diagnosis: 1 The nature of a disease; the identification of an illness. 2 A conclusion or decision reached by diagnosis. The diagnosis is rabies. 3 The identification of any problem. The diagnosis was a plugged IV. See the entire definition of Diagnosis Doppler ultrasound: A form of ultrasound that can detect and measure blood flow. Doppler ultrasound depends on the Doppler effect, a change in the frequency of a wave resulting here from the motion of a reflector, the red blood cell. See the entire definition of Doppler ultrasound Echocardiography: Echocardiography is a diagnostic  test which uses ultrasound waves to make images of the heart chambers, valves and  surrounding structures. It can measure cardiac output and is a sensitive test for  inflammation around the heart ( pericarditis ). It can also be used to detect abnormal anatomy or  infections of the heart valves. EEG: Electroencephalogram, e technique for studying the electrical  current within the brain. Electrodes are attached to the  scalp. Wires attach these electrodes to a machine which  records the electrical impulses. The results are either  printed out or displayed on a computer screen. Electroencephalogram is abbreviated EEG. See the entire definition of EEG Electroencephalogram: A study of electrical  current within the brain. Electrodes are attached to the  scalp. Wires attach these electrodes to a machine which  records the electrical impulses. The results are either  printed out or displayed on a computer screen. Electroencephalogram is abbreviated EEG. See the entire definition of Electroencephalogram Endarterectomy: An operation to clean out an artery and restore normal blood flow through the artery.  An endarterectomy is basically a "Rotorooter" procedure. It removes diseased material from the inside of an artery, and also removes any occluding atheromatous deposits, the aim being to leave a smooth lining within the vessel, so the blood can flow normally. See the entire definition of Endarterectomy Geriatric medicine: The branch of medicine concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease in older people and the problems specific to aging. Also called geriatrics. See the entire definition of Geriatric medicine Heart: The muscle that pumps blood received from  veins into arteries throughout the body. It is positioned in the  chest behind the sternum (breastbone; in front of the trachea,  esophagus, and aorta; and above the diaphragm muscle that separates  the chest and abdominal cavities. The normal heart is about the size  of a closed fist, and weighs about 10.5 ounces. It is cone-shaped,  with the point of the cone pointing down to the left. Two-thirds of  the heart lies in the left side of the chest with the balance in the  right chest. See the entire definition of Heart Heart disease: Any disorder that affects the heart. Sometimes the term "heart disease" is used narrowly and incorrectly as a synonym for coronary artery disease . Heart disease is synonymous with cardiac disease but not with cardiovascular disease which is any disease of the heart or blood vessels. Among the many types of heart disease, see, for example: Angina ; Arrhythmia ; Congenital heart disease ; Coronary artery disease (CAD); Dilated cardiomyopathy ; Heart attack (myocardial infarction); Heart failure ; Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ; Mitral regurgitation ; Mitral valve prolapse ; and Pulmonary stenosis . Heart rhythm disorders: Abnormal rhythm of the heartbeat due to  irregularities in transmission of the electrical signals that normally control  heart rate and rhythm. Also known as arrhythmias. With an arrhythmia , the  heartbeats may be irregular or too slow (bradycardia), too rapid (tachycardia),  or occur too early. When a single heartbeat occurs earlier than normal, it is  called a premature contraction. An abnormal heart rhythm can be due to  electrical disturbances in the upper chambers of the heart (atria), the  atrioventricular (AV) node, or the lower chambers of the heart (ventricles).  Examples of atrial arrhythmias include atrial fibrillation , atrial flutter, and paroxysmal atrial tachycardia . Ventricular arrhythmias include ventricular  tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. Hemorrhage: Bleeding or the abnormal flow of blood. See the entire definition of Hemorrhage Hemorrhagic: Pertaining to bleeding or the abnormal flow of blood. See the entire definition of Hemorrhagic High blood pressure: Also known as hypertension, high blood pressure is, by definition, a repeatedly elevated blood pressure exceeding 140 over 90 mmHg -- a systolic pressure above 140 with a diastolic pressure above 90. See the entire definition of High blood pressure Hypertension: High blood pressure, defined as a repeatedly elevated blood pressure exceeding 140 over 90 mmHg -- a systolic pressure above 140 with a diastolic pressure above 90. See the entire definition of Hypertension Indicate: In medicine, to make a treatment or procedure advisable because of a particular condition or circumstance. For example, certain medications are indicated for the treatment of hypertension during pregnancy while others are contraindicated . Infarction: The formation of an infarct, an area of  tissue death due to a local lack of oxygen. See the entire definition of Infarction Injury: Harm or hurt. The term "injury" may be applied in medicine to damage inflicted upon oneself as in a hamstring injury or by an external agent on as in a cold injury . The injury may be accidental or deliberate, as with a needlestick injury .  The term "injury" may be synonymous (depending on the context) with a wound or with trauma . Kidney: One of a pair of organs located in the right and left side of the abdomen which clear "poisons" from the blood, regulate acid concentration and maintain water balance in the body by excreting urine.  The kidneys are part of the urinary tract. The urine then passes through connecting tubes called "ureters" into the bladder. The bladder stores the urine until it is released during urination. See the entire definition of Kidney Lesion: Pronounced "lee-sion" with the emphasis on  the "lee," a lesion can be almost any abnormality involving any  tissue or organ due to any disease or any injury. See the entire definition of Lesion Liver: An organ in the upper abdomen that aids in digestion and removes waste products and worn-out cells from the blood. The liver is the largest solid organ in the body. The liver weighs about three and a half pounds (1.6 kilograms). It measures about 8 inches (20 cm) horizontally (across) and 6.5 inches (17 cm) vertically (down) and is 4.5 inches (12 cm) thick. See the entire definition of Liver Memory: 1. The ability to recover information about  past events or knowledge. 2. The process of recovering information about past events or knowledge. 3. Cognitive reconstruction. The brain engages in a remarkable reshuffling process in an attempt to extract what is general and what is particular about each passing moment. See the entire definition of Memory MRI: Abbreviation and nickname for magnetic resonance imaging . For more information, see: Magnetic Resonance Imaging ; Paul C. Lauterbur ; Peter Mansfield . Multi-infarct dementia: Dementia brought on by a series of strokes. See Vascular dementia . Neurological: Having to do with the nerves or the  nervous system. Neurologist: A doctor who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the nervous system. Neurology: The medical specialty concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the nervous system -- the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves. See the entire definition of Neurology NINDS: Stands for the National  Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, one of the  National Institutes of Health in the U.S., whose mission is  to "support and conduct research and research training on  the normal structure and function of the nervous system and  on the causes, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of more  than 600 nervous system disorders including stroke , epilepsy , multiple sclerosis , Parkinson's disease, head and  spinal cord injury, Alzheimer's disease, and brain tumors." Nursing: 1) Profession concerned with the provision  of services essential to the maintenance and restoration of health by  attending the needs of sick persons.	2) Feeding a infant at the breast . Nursing home: A residential facility for persons  with chronic illness or disability, particularly older  people who have mobility and eating problems. Also called a  convalescent home, long-term care facility. Operation: Although there are many meanings to the word "operation", in medicine it refers to a surgical procedure. See the entire definition of Operation Oxygen: A colorless, odorless and tasteless gas that makes up about 20% of the air we breathe (and at least half the weight of the entire solid crust of the earth) and which combines with most of the other elements to form oxides. Oxygen is essential to human, animal and plant life. See the entire definition of Oxygen Paralysis: Loss of voluntary movement (motor  function). Paralysis that affects only one muscle or limb is partial  paralysis, also known as palsy; paralysis of all muscles is total  paralysis, as may occur in cases of botulism . Peripheral: Situated away from the center, as opposed to  centrally located. See the entire definition of Peripheral Peripheral vascular disease: A disease of blood vessels outside the heart. Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) affects the peripheral circulation, as opposed to the cardiac circulation. PVD comprises diseases of both peripheral arteries and peripheral veins. PVD is sometimes incorrectly used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease (PAD). Intermittent claudication due to inadequate blood flow to the leg is an example of peripheral artery disease (PAD) while varicose veins and spider veins are examples of peripheral vein disease. See the entire definition of Peripheral vascular disease Pharmacy: A location where prescription drugs are  sold. A pharmacy is, by law, constantly supervised by a licensed  pharmacist. Plaque: 1. An semi-hardened accumulation of  substances from fluids that bathe an area. Examples include  dental plaque and cholesterol plaque. See the entire definition of Plaque Platelet: An irregular, disc-shaped element in the  blood that assists in blood clotting. During normal blood clotting,  the platelets clump together (aggregate). Although platelets are  often classed as blood cells, they are actually fragments of large   bone marrow cells called megakaryocytes. Protein: A large molecule composed of one or more chains of amino acids in a specific order determined by the base sequence of nucleotides in the DNA coding for the protein. See the entire definition of Protein Psychiatrist: A physician (an M.D.) who specializes in  the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of mental illness. Psychiatrists must  receive additional training and serve a supervised residency in their  specialty. They may also have additional training in a psychiatric  specialty, such as child psychiatry or neuropsychiatry. They can  prescribe medication, which psychologists cannot do. See the entire definition of Psychiatrist Psychosis: In the general sense, a mental illness  that markedly interferes with a person's capacity to meet life's everyday demands.  In a specific sense, it refers to a thought disorder in which reality testing is grossly  impaired. See the entire definition of Psychosis Recurrent: Back again. A recurrent fever is a fever that has returned after an intermission: a recrudescent fever. Referral: The recommendation of a medical or  paramedical professional. If you get a referral to ophthalmology, for  example, you are being sent to the eye doctor.  In HMOs and other  managed care schemes, a referral is usually necessary to see any  practitioner or specialist other than your primary care physician  (PCP), if you want the service to be covered. The referral is  obtained from your PCP, who may require a telephone or office  consultation first. See the entire definition of Referral Risk factor: Something that increases a person's chances of developing a disease. Rule out: A term much used in medicine, meaning to eliminate or exclude something from consideration. The ACB (albumin cobalt binding) test helps rule out a heart attack in the differential diagnosis of severe chest pain. Scan: As a noun, the data or image obtained from the  examination of organs or regions of the body by gathering information with a sensing device. See the entire definition of Scan Sensation: In medicine and physiology, sensation refers to the registration of an incoming (afferent) nerve impulse in that part of the brain called the sensorium, which is capable of such perception.  Therefore, the awareness of a stimulus as a result of its perception by sensory receptors. (Sensory is here synonymous with sensation.) See the entire definition of Sensation Sleep: The body's rest cycle. See the entire definition of Sleep Sleep disorders: Any disorder that affects,  disrupts, or involves sleep. The most common sleep disorder  is probably snoring, although it is usually not medically  significant. Insomnia, sleep apnea, restless leg syndrome,  and sleepwalking are also sleep disorders. Most large  medical centers have diagnostic and treatment facilities  dedicated to sleep disorders. See the entire definition of Sleep disorders SPECT: An acronym that stands for S ingle P hoton E mission C omputed T omography, a nuclear medicine procedure in which a gamma camera rotates around the patient and takes pictures from many angles, which a computer then uses to form a tomographic (cross-sectional) image. See the entire definition of SPECT Stress: Forces from the outside world impinging on the individual. Stress is a normal part of life that can help us learn and grow. Conversely, stress can cause us significant problems. See the entire definition of Stress Stroke: The sudden death of some brain cells due to a lack of oxygen when the blood flow to the brain is impaired by blockage or rupture of an artery to the brain. A stroke is also called a cerebrovascular accident or, for short, a CVA. See the entire definition of Stroke Surgery: The word "surgery" has multiple meanings. It is the branch of medicine concerned with diseases and conditions which  require or are amenable to operative procedures. Surgery is the work done by a surgeon. By analogy, the work of an editor wielding his pen as a scalpel is s form of surgery. A surgery in England (and some other countries) is a physician's or dentist's office. See the entire definition of Surgery Symptom: Any subjective evidence of disease. Anxiety, lower back pain , and fatigue are all symptoms. They are sensations only the patient can perceive. In contrast, a sign is objective evidence of disease. A bloody nose is a sign. It is evident to the patient, doctor, nurse and other observers. Therapy: The treatment of disease. See the entire definition of Therapy Tomography: The process for generating a tomogram, a two-dimensional image of a slice or section through a three-dimensional object. Tomography achieves this remarkable result by simply moving an x-ray source in one direction as the x-ray film is moved in the opposite direction during the exposure to sharpen structures in the focal plane, while structures in other planes appear blurred. The tomogram is the picture; the tomograph is the apparatus; and tomography is the process. See the entire definition of Tomography Ultrasound : High-frequency sound waves.  Ultrasound waves can be bounced off of tissues using  special devices. The echoes are then converted into a  picture called a sonogram. Ultrasound imaging, referred to  as ultrasonography, allows physicians and patients to get  an inside view of soft tissues and body cavities, without  using invasive techniques. Ultrasound is often used to  examine a fetus during pregnancy . There is no convincing  evidence for any danger from ultrasound during  pregnancy. Vascular: Relating to the blood vessels of the body. The  blood vessels of the body, as a group, are referred to as the  vascular system. See the entire definition of Vascular Vascular dementia: A common form of dementia in older persons that is due to cerebrovascular disease, usually with stepwise deterioration from a series of small strokes and a patchy distribution of neurologic deficits affecting some functions and not others. Risk factors include high blood pressure , an unsteady way of walking, and advanced age. Symptoms include confusion, problems with recent memory, wandering or getting lost in familiar places, loss of bladder or bowel control (incontinence), emotional problems such as laughing or crying inappropriately, difficulty following instructions, and problems handling money. The damage is typically so slight that the change is noticeable only as a series of small steps. However, over time, as more small blood vessels in the brain are blocked, there is noticeable gradual mental decline. Vascular dementia commonly begins between the ages of 60 and 75 and affects men more often than women. Also known as multi-infarct dementia. See also CADASIL . Vessel: A tube in the body that carries fluids:  blood vessels or lymph vessels. White matter: The part of the brain that contains myelinated nerve fibers. The white matter is white because it is the color of myelin, the insulation covering the nerve fibers. The white matter is as opposed to the gray matter (the cortex of the brain which contains nerve cell bodies). Stroke-Related Dementia Main Article Glossary Privacy Policy WebMD Daily Get breaking medical news. From WebMD Healthy Resources Best Ways to Manage Blood Sugar and Insulin The Warning Signs of Stroke Stroke: Causes and Risk Factors Featured Centers Ask the Nutritionist: Weight Loss Tips Which Drugstore Tooth Whiteners Work Best? Gout: Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Are You Depressed? Fibromyalgia Center Stroke-Related Dementia Progressive Supranuclear Palsy » Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Overview Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare degenerative disease of the brain. The disease impairs movements and balance. Many people with PSP also experience changes in mood, behavior, and personality. A decline in cognitive mental processes, such as thinking, memory, attention, and speech, is not uncommon. When these mental changes are severe enough to interfere with everyday activities, they are called dementia. The name progressive supranuclear palsy seems like a mouthful, but it accurately describes the disease. PSP is progressive, meaning that it gets worse over time. The disease affects the part of the brain above the nuclei (“supranuclear”), which are pea-sized structures in the part of the nervous system that controls eye movements. Palsy means weakness, and it is this characteristic weakness in eye movements for which the disease is named. PSP is sometimes called Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome, after... Read the Progressive Supranuclear Palsy article » Featured Topics Osteoarthritis Slideshow What is RLS? Heart Disease Pictures Heart Health Topics Heart Attack Heart Symptoms Never To Ignore Slideshow Omega-3 Fatty Acids Slideshow Palpitations Heart Disease Slideshow Medical Dictionary or A-Z List Use Pill Finder Find it Now Pill Identifier on RxList quick, easy, pill identification Find a Local Pharmacy including 24 hour pharmacies First Aid & Emergencies | Topics A-Z | Picture Slideshows | Medications | Image Gallery | eTools | Medical Dictionary Definitions About Us | Privacy | Terms of Use | Advertising Policy | Site Map | Contact Us WebMD | Medscape Reference | Medscape | MedicineNet | RxList | BootsWebMD This site complies to the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: Verify here . ©2012 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved. eMedicineHealth does not provide medical