
St. Elizabeth Healthcare NKY (Northern Kentucky and Greater Cincinnati) - HealthTrak Medical Encyclopedia Symptom Navigator Wellness Tools Drug Notes Drug Interactions Use this extensive media-rich library to learn about what's going on in your body. Sickle cell anemia • Encyclopedia Home • Diseases A-Z Images Red blood cells,... Red blood cells,... Red blood cells,... Red blood cells,... Red blood cells,... Formed elements ... Blood cells Read More • Hemoglobin • Sickle cell test • Thalassemia • Acute • Long bones • Central nervous system • Newborn screening tests • Osteonecrosis More Features • Printer-friendly version Sickle cell anemia Definition Sickle cell anemia is a disease passed down through families in which red blood cells form an abnormal crescent shape. (Red blood cells are normally shaped like a disc.) Alternative Names Anemia - sickle cell; Hemoglobin SS disease (Hb SS); Sickle cell disease Causes Hemoglobin is a protein inside red blood cells that carries oxygen. Sickle cell anemia is caused by an abnormal type of hemoglobin called hemoglobin S. Hemoglobin S distorts the shape of red blood cells, especially when there is low oxygen. The distorted red blood cells are shaped like crescents or sickles. These fragile, sickle-shaped cells deliver less oxygen to the body's tissues. They also can clog more easily in small blood vessels, and break into pieces that disrupt blood flow. Sickle cell anemia is inherited from both parents. Sickle cell disease is much more common in people of African and Mediterranean descent. It is also seen in people from South and Central America, the Caribbean, and the Middle East. Someone who inherits the hemoglobin S gene from one parent and normal hemoglobin (A) from the other parent will have sickle cell trait . People with sickle cell trait do not have the symptoms of true sickle cell anemia. Symptoms Symptoms usually don't occur until after age 4 months. Almost all patients with sickle cell anemia have painful episodes (crises), which can last from hours to days. These crises can affect the bones of the back, the long bones , and the chest. Some patients have one episode every few years. Others have many episodes per year. The crises can be severe enough to require a hospital stay. Common symptoms include: Attacks of abdominal pain Bone pain Breathlessness Delayed growth and puberty Fatigue Fever Jaundice Paleness Rapid heart rate Ulcers on the lower legs (in adolescents and adults) Other symptoms include: Chest pain Excessive thirst Frequent urination Painful and prolonged erection ( priapism - occurs in 10 - 40% of men with the disease) Poor eyesight/blindness Strokes Skin ulcers Exams and Tests Tests commonly performed to diagnose and monitor patients with sickle cell anemia include: Complete blood count ( CBC ) Hemoglobin electrophoresis Sickle cell test Other tests may include: Bilirubin Blood oxygen CT scan or MRI Peripheral smear Serum creatinine Serum hemoglobin Serum potassium Urinary casts or blood in the urine White blood cell count Treatment Patients with sickle cell disease need ongoing treatment, even when they are not having a painful crisis. They should take supplements of folic acid (essential for producing red blood cells) because red blood cells are turned over so quickly. The purpose of treatment is to manage and control symptoms, and to limit the frequency of crises. During a sickle cell crisis, you may need certain treatments. Painful episodes are treated with pain medicines and by drinking plenty of fluids. It is important to treat the pain. Non-narcotic medications may be effective, but some patients will need narcotics. Hydroxyurea (Hydrea) is a drug some patients use to reduce the number of pain episodes (including chest pain and difficulty breathing). It does not work for everyone. Antibiotics and vaccines are given to prevent bacterial infections, which are common in children with sickle cell disease. Blood transfusions are used to treat a sickle cell crisis. They may also be used on a regular basis to help prevent strokes. Other treatments for complications may include: Dialysis or kidney transplant for kidney disease Drug rehabilitation and counseling for psychological complications Gallbladder removal (if you have gallstone disease) Hip replacement for avascular necrosis of the hip Irrigation or surgery for persistent, painful erections (priapism) Surgery for eye problems Wound care, zinc oxide, or surgery for leg ulcers Bone marrow transplants can cure sickle cell anemia. However, transplants have many risks, including infection, rejection , and graft-vs-host disease. They are not an option for most patients. Also, sickle cell anemia patients are often unable to find suitable donors. Support Groups Sickle cell anemia can cause great stress to the patient and family members. Joining a support group where members share common experiences and problems can relieve this stress. See: Sickle cell anemia - support group Outlook (Prognosis) In the past, sickle cell patients often died from organ failure between ages 20 and 40. Thanks to a better understanding and management of the disease, today, patients can live into their 50s or beyond. Causes of death include organ failure and infection. Some people with the disease experience minor, brief, infrequent episodes. Others experience severe, long-term, frequent episodes with many complications. Possible Complications Acute chest syndrome Anemia Blindness/vision impairment Brain and nervous system (neurologic) symptoms and stroke Death Disease of many body systems (kidney, liver, lung) Drug (narcotic) abuse Erectile dysfunction (as a result of priapism) Gallstones Hemolytic crisis Infection, including pneumonia , gallbladder inflammation ( cholecystitis ), bone infection ( osteomyelitis ), and urinary tract infection Joint destruction Leg sores (ulcers) Loss of function in the spleen Parvovirus B19 infection, leading to low red blood cell production (aplastic crisis) Splenic sequestration syndrome Tissue death in the kidney When to Contact a Medical Professional Call your health care provider if you have: Painful crises Any symptoms of infection (fever, body aches, headache, fatigue) Prevention Sickle cell anemia can only occur when two people who carry sickle cell trait have a child together. Genetic counseling is recommended for all carriers of sickle cell trait. About 1 in 12 African Americans has sickle cell trait. It is possible to diagnose sickle cell anemia during pregnancy. You can prevent sickling of red blood cells by: Getting enough fluids Getting enough oxygen Quickly treating infections Have physical exams every 3 - 6 months to ensure that you are getting enough nutrition and activity, and that you are receiving the proper vaccinations. Regular eye exams are also recommended. PREVENTING INFECTIONS People with sickle cell anemia need to keep their immunizations up to date, including Haemophilus influenza, pneumococcal , meningococcal, hepatitis B , and influenza . Some patients may receive antibiotics to prevent infections. PREVENTING CRISES Parents should encourage children with sickle cell anemia to lead normal lives. To reduce sickle cell crises, take the following precautions: To prevent oxygen loss, avoid: Demanding physical activity (especially if the spleen is enlarged) Emotional stress Environments with low oxygen (high altitudes, nonpressurized airplane flights) Smoking Known sources of infection. To make sure you're getting enough fluids: Avoid too much exposure to the sun Have fluids on hand, both at home and away Recognize signs of dehydration To avoid infection: Consider having the child wear a Medic Alert bracelet Have the child vaccinated as recommended by the health care provider Share the above information with teachers and other caretakers, when necessary Be aware of the effects that chronic , life-threatening illnesses can have on siblings, marriages, parents, and the child. References Lee MT, Piomelli S, Granger S, et al. Stroke prevention trial in sickle cell anemia (STOP): extended follow-up and final results. Blood . 2006;108:847-852. Brawley OW, Cornelius LJ, Edwards LR, Gamble VN, Green BL, Inturrisi C, et al. National Institutes of Health consensus development conference statement: hydroxyurea treatment for sickle cell disease. Ann Intern Med . 2008;148:932-938. Geller AK, O'Connor MK. The sickle cell crisis: a dilemma in pain relief. Mayo Clin Proc . 2008;83:320-323. Saunthararajah Y, Vichinsky EP, Embury SH. Sickle cell disease. In: Hoffman R, Benz Jr. EJ, Shattil SJ, Furie B, Cohen HJ, eds. Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice . 4th ed. Philadelphia, Pa: Churchill Livingston; 2005:chap 37. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for Sickle Cell Disease in Newborns: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD. Sep 2007:AHRQ Publication No. 07-05104-EF-2. Review Date:
								4/5/2009 Reviewed By:
							Yi-Bin Chen, MD, Leukemia/Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Massachusetts General Hospital. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. ©  1997- A.D.A.M., Inc.  Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Pay My Bill Pagar Su Factura Volunteer Foundation Donate Careers Contact Us Log in {1} ##LOC[OK]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## {1} ##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]## Classes & Events Contact Us Directions Find a Doctor Join the Team Mobile App Outpatient Preregistration Outpatient Services Directory Pay My Bill Pagar Su Factura Send a Care Gram Send an E-Card St. Elizabeth Physicians Support Groups WebNursery® Use these frequently visited links to find important information, send greetings, and pay bills. 150th Anniversary About Us A Taste Of Health Awards Board of Trustees Community Benefits Corporate Compliance History Human Resources Locations Mission/Vision/Values News Room Partnership Requests Publications Quality Reporting Report to the Community We bring the best thinking from around the globe right here to Northern Kentucky.  Because the human specialists at St. Elizabeth Healthcare believe that each person in our community should have access to world class care throughout every stage of life. Specialty Services: Business Health Services Cancer Care Cardiac Care da Vinci Surgical System Foundation Hospice Human Resources The Family Birth Place Womens Wellness All Services: 320 CT Scanner Administration Alcohol and Drug Treatment Audiology and Speech Pathology Behavioral Health Diabetes/Endocrinology Domestic Violence Program Emergency Departments Employee Assistance Program Executive Physicals Family Medicine Residency Family Practice Center For Health Professionals Gift Shop Hand Therapy Health Ministries Holistic Health Imaging Intensive Care Units Laboratory Services Marketing/Public Relations Mobile Health NKY CARE - Womens Heart Nutrition Services Occupational Medicine Orthopaedics Pastoral Care Patient Resource Services Pediatric Services Physical and Occupational Therapy PrimeWise Pulmonary Rehab Quality of Care Rehabilitation Services Respiratory Care Skilled Nursing Facility Sleep Disorders Spine Center Sports Medicine Stroke Services SurgiCenters Vascular Institute Volunteer Services Weight Mgmt Center Wound Care Center Whether you are a patient in our care - or visiting one - we are committed to making every occasion at St. Elizabeth as simple and supportive as it can be.  Use these resources to accomplish the practical tasks involved with coming to our hospital. Billing Café/Bistro Contact Us Directions Facility Updates Financial Assistance Find a Doctor Gift Shop Health Plan Info HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices Living Will News Room Parking Patient Pricing Patient Services Pay My Bill Pagar Su Factura Pharmacy Quality of Care Safety or Quality Concerns Send an E-Card Support Groups Visiting of Patients WebNursery® Community Calendar Media Resources News Room Video Gallery Your community is our community.  In an effort to provide you with the most accurate information as efficiently and quickly as possible, view our calendar of events, news stories, and rich media content. ©
        2012
        St. Elizabeth Healthcare. All rights reserved. Contact Us News Di