Content-Type: text/html
Set-Cookie: Support=Application%27s+Administrator; path=/
Cache-control: private

Columbia Psychiatry CUMC Home | College of Physicians & Surgeons | Columbia University | Libraries | Share Home | About Us | Contact Us | Faculty | Calendars | News Evaluations | ♥ GIVE & VOLUNTEER Ask the Experts Ask A Question Search Disclaimer QUICK LINKS Patients & Families Health Professionals Students Residents Fellows Question: If I drink a bottle of wine every night and want to stop drinking, do I need alcohol detoxification? Answered by: Eric Collins The short answer is "Yes," because stopping suddenly puts you at risk to have seizures, tremors, insomnia, bad dreams, stomach upset, anxiety, panic attacks, hallucinations, and/or a life-threatening condition known as delirium tremens (also known as DT's). No medical professional should endorse ignoring or not adequately safeguarding against these risks, especially when detoxification can be safely and easily accomplished in about a week.  The usual approach to detoxification is to use a sedative medication (e.g., Librium, Klonopin) and gradually reduce it over the course of a few days to a week or so, depending on how much alcohol the person consumed and how sensitive they are to developing withdrawal symptoms. People differ in how sensitive they are to developing withdrawal syndromes to different medications. A standard bottle of wine (3/4 of a liter) is the equivalent of five standard alcoholic drinks (a standard drink contains 14 g of alcohol, the amount an average person metabolizes completely in one hour. It is the amount of alcohol present in 12 oz of beer, 5 oz of wine, and 1.5 oz of 80-proof alcoholic beverages). This amount of alcohol on a daily basis is often associated with the development of mild to moderate withdrawal symptoms if one suddenly stops drinking. The likelihood of withdrawal symptoms goes up when increasing amounts of alcohol are consumed daily. While some individuals will not experience withdrawal following abrupt cessation of a bottle of wine daily, there is no way to determine who is most at risk to do so. Individuals who have previously stopped drinking abruptly, without medication, may be at increasing risk to have a withdrawal seizure with each episode of chronic heavy drinking stopped abruptly. Eric Collins, M.D. Read more info>>> More On This Subject How do I know if I need drug or alcohol detoxification? How do I decide whether to try an outpatient or inpatient alcohol detoxification? If I drink a bottle of wine every night and want to stop drinking, do I need alcohol detoxification? Does Columbia offer a one-day detoxification from heroin or prescription pain killers? More by this Expert How do I know if I need drug or alcohol detoxification? How do I decide whether to try an outpatient or inpatient alcohol detoxification? If I drink a bottle of wine every night and want to stop drinking, do I need alcohol detoxification? Does Columbia offer a one-day detoxification from heroin or prescription pain killers? Find Help Columbia Inpatient Psychiatry Program Columbia Day Treatment – Eastside © 2010 Columbia University Department of Psychiatry | Disclaimer | Privacy | Site Map For Patients And Families For Health Professionals For Students, Residents, Fellows Research About Us Evaluations Evaluations Medical Student Education Clinical Trials Message from the Chairman Clinical Services Clinical Services Psychiatry Residency Research Divisions Administration Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Research Training Research Clinics Faculty Grand Rounds Clinical Fellowships Research Centers Contact Us CME Registration Child Psychiatry Research Training News Consultations Psy