
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 08:04:10 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Shiremoor hypnotherapy hypnosis to stop smoking    - Hypnosis Forums Hypnotherapy Forum - Quays Clinic Of Hypnotherapy Welcome, Guest . Please login or register . Shiremoor hypnotherapy hypnosis to stop smoking Home Calendar Search Register Login Hypnosis Forums Hypnotherapy Forum - Quays Clinic Of Hypnotherapy › General Boards › What is hypnotherapy? ›  Shiremoor hypnotherapy hypnosis to stop smoking Moderators: Ian Smith , Quays Clinic of Hypnotherapy Users Browsing Forum No Members and 1 Guests Shiremoor hypnotherapy hypnosis to stop smoking This thread currently has 34 views. 1 Pages 1 Recommend Thread Ian Smith August 15, 2011, 8:10am Board Moderator Posts 5,457 Gender Male Shiremoor hypnotherapy and hypnosis to stop smoking and quit smoking. Stopping smoking and quitting smoking... I can remember what it was like when I was desperate to find help to stop smoking and I had tried many stop smoking products and stop smoking drugs, including using the local stop smoking support groups in the area in which I live. In the past I had tried a wide range of different methods and products such as, stop smoking pills, stop smoking patches, nicotine replacement therapy, laser therapy, champix, ziaban, stop smoking gum, stop smoking inhalators and even a stop smoking nasal spray. I had watched countless stop smoking DVDs and listened to a wide variety of stop smoking CDS from many different so called specialists from around the world, and still failed to give up smoking. Later on I tried the NHS stop smoking program because it was free and after going to one of their stop smoking clinics, I again failed. I was starting to think that I would never be able to find the stop smoking support that I needed to give up cigarettes once and for all. This is where my life changed, I was looking online for help to stop smoking and came across the idea of using self-hypnosis and hypnotherapy for quitting smoking. I discovered some fascinating stop smoking tips and smoking cessation advice so decided to use that information. After many years of looking for effective ways about how to quit I finally came across a stop smoking forum which gave me the information that I needed on how to quit. I discovered that the most effective method available was hypnotherapy, which uses the tool of hypnosis to access the subconscious mind. Hypnosis, which is focused attention, either internally on our thoughts, or externally on a fixation point allows a bypass of the conscious critical factor of the mind. When the conscious critical factor of the mind is bypassed it allows access to subconscious habits, behaviors and emotions. By visualizing over and over again positive images of myself as a non smoker, and at the same time giving myself repeated positive suggestions, I had found the key to quitting smoking for good. Hypnosis for smoking was my last chance to quit and I knew the time had come in my life to finally take control away from the cigarettes, which were ruining my life. I was stupidly putting my life at risk from the many smoking related illnesses like lung cancer, emphysema, mouth cancer, throat cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart disease, stroke, impotence, osteoporosis (brittle bones), making them more susceptible to fractures and many more fatal illnesses caused by the 4800 killer toxins that are found in cigarettes. If you are asking yourself, "how do I quit smoking?", the answer is simple: Hypnosis is the most effective method available! Do not wait for "No Smoking Day" to arrive, save your life, take action right now and enjoy all the benefits of being a non smoker just like me. If you are looking for help or advice to quit smoking, give the Quays Clinic of Hypnotherapy a call.  I have helped many clients in the past and I have a fantastic success rate, and I know just how successful I am by the number of referrals that I get from previous satisfied clients. My stop smoking program is very effective, and only takes a single hypnotherapy session of about two hours duration to help my clients to quit smoking for good. As long as the client has the commitment to carry out the advice that I give to them using my NLP quit smoking techniques, and also thought field therapy training, there is no reason for them to ever smoke a cigarette again. My clients understand that hypnosis is the easy way to give up smoking and the best way to stop smoking for good. No more stop smoking aids, no more unreliable stop smoking programs that don’t work! The Quays Clinic of Hypnotherapy can give you all the stop smoking support and quitting smoking tips that you need to always remain a non smoker. Act straight away before it is too late. You deserve the best in life, so give me a call. I know I can help you. I'm only a phonecall away: Ian Smith. (Distinction) D.Hyp  T.F.T  L.H.S  C.I.S.H  N.R.H  G.H.R  G.Q.H.P  U.K.C.H.O.  M.U.F.H. Expert clinical hypnotherapist in stop smoking hypnosis and quit smoking hypnotherapy. Telephone: 0774-335-3367. http://www.quaysclinic.co.uk The Quays Clinic of Hypnotherapy serves: North East of England, Newcastle, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Sunderland, Gateshead, Washington, North Tyneside, South Tyneside, Tyne and Wear, Tyneside, Wearside, Tyne Tees, Teesside, Northumberland, Northumbria, Cumbria, Durham, County Durham, Co Durham, Durham City, Old Durham, City of Newcastle, City of Sunderland, Gateshead Borough, Acomb, Allenheads, Alnwick, Annfield Plain, Bamburgh, Barrasford, Beamish, Belford, Belsay, Billingham, Bishop Auckland, Blackhall, Blyth, Allendale, Alnmouth, Amble, Ashington, Barnard Castle, Beadnell, Bedlington, Bellingham, Berwick Upon Tweed, Birtley, Bishop Middleham, Blaydon, Boulmer, Bowburn, Brancepeth, Burnopfield, Castleside, Chillingham, Cleadon, Corbridge, Craster, Cullercoats, Easington, Eglingham, Esh Winning, Ferryhill, Frosterley, Great Lumley, Guisborough, Harbottle, Haydon Bridge, Heddon on the wall, Hetton le Hole, Horden, Hurworth on Tees, Jarrow, Kirkwhelpington, Langley Park, Marske by the Sea, Middleton St George, Murton, Newton Aycliffe, Bowes, Brandon, Castle Eden, Chester le Street, Chilton, Consett, Cramlington, Crook, Dipton, Eaglescliffe, Ebchester, Embleton, Eshott, Fishburn, Gainford, Greenhead, Haltwhistle, Haswell, Hebburn, Heighington, Hexham, Houghton Le Spring, Ingleby Barwick, Kielder, Lanchester, Lindisfarne, Middleton in Teesdale, Morpeth, Newbiggin by the Sea, Otterburn, Penshaw, Pity Me, Prudhoe, Rothbury, Ryton, Sadberge, Seaham, Seaton Delaval, Shildon, Skelton, South Shields, Staindrop, Stanhope, Stocksfield, Tanfield Lea, Thornaby, Tow Law, Tudhoe, Ushaw Moor, Warkworth, West Auckland, Whickham, Whittington, Wingate, Wooler, Yarm, Peterlee, Ponteland, Redcar, Rowlands Gill, Sacriston, Saltburn, Seahouses, Sedgefield, Shotton, Slaley, Spennymoor, Stamfordham, Stanley, Swarland, Teesdale, Thornley, Trimdon, Tynemouth, Wallsend, West Rainton, Whitburn, Willington, Wolsingham, Wylam, Hebburn, Benton, Benwell, Blakelaw, Byker, Castle, City Centre, Cochrane Park, Dene, Denton, Elswick, Gosforth, Haydon Grange, Heaton, High West, Jesmond, Kenton, Kingston Park, Lemington, Low Fell, Newburn, Scotswood, Shieldfield, Spital Tongue, St Gabriels, St Peters Basin, Victoria Glade, Walker Gate, Wallsend, Westerhope, Westgate, North Shields, Rowlands Gill, Ryton, South Shields, Washington, Whitley Bay, Fawdon, Fenham, Forest Hall, Ouseburn, Parklands, Ponteland, Sandyford, Whickham, Wingrove, Woolsington, Backworth, Boldon, Cox Green, Cullercoats, Derwent Haugh, Dinnington, Dunston, East Boldon, East Howdon, Felling, Forest Hall, Gosforth, Harton, Kenton, Killingworth, Lamesley, Low Eighton, Low Team, Low Walker, Marsden, Monkseaton, Monkton, Monkwearmouth, Murton, Newherrington, New Silksworth, Newbottle, Newburn, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Offerton, Old Walker, Pallion, Ravensworth, Ryhope, Seaton Burn, Sheriff Hill, Shiremoor, Silksworth, South Hylton, South Shields, Southwick, St Peters, Sunderland, Swalwell, Throckley, Town Moor, Tyne Dock, Tynemouth, Usworth, Walker, Wallsend, Warden Law, Westoe, Whickham, Whitburn, Willington Quay, Winlaton, Woolsington, Bear Park, Bowburn, Brandon, Chester le Street, Coundon, Coxhoe, Crook, Darlington, Evenwood, Fir Tree, Hamsterley, Hartleypool, Heighington, Meadowfield, Mickleton, Ramshaw, Shincliffe, Spennymoor, Woodland. Logged Offline 1 Pages 1 Recommend Thread Hypnosis Forums Hypnotherapy Forum - Quays Clinic Of Hypnotherapy › General Boards › What is hypnotherapy? ›  Shiremoor hypnotherapy hypnosis to stop smoking General Hypnotherapy Chat New Members - Say Hello! Recommend a hypnosis - hypnotherapy book or DVD What is hypnotherapy? What can I expect? Hypnotherapy - NLP Hypnotherapy - Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy - Weig