<http://gastricbypassfacts.com/?p=86>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Banding Home Gastric Bypass Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Is Growing Fast Bariatric Surgery Or Weight Loss Surgery? Biliopancreatic Diversion Meeting The Cost Of Bariatric Surgery Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy Stomach Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy For The Super Obese Sleeve Gastrectomy With Duodenal Switch Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Gastric Bypass – Before and After Pictures The Father of Gastric Bypass Surgery The Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Estimating The Cost Of Gastric Bypass Surgery Insurance Cover For Gastric Bypass Surgery Will Insurers Ease Funding For Surgery? Life After Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Bypass And Your Expectations Vitamins And Minerals After Gastric Bypass Drinking And Gastric Bypass Surgery Do Not Mix Environmental Factors And The Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Surgery Risks Gastric Bypass Risk And Binge Eating Post Operative Gastric Bypass Complications Gastric Bypass Surgery And The Digestive System The Carnie Wilson Gastric Bypass The Renee Williams Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Questions How Does The Sleeve Gastrectomy Work? Gastric Bypass – Solving A Manmade Problem? How Does A Gastric Bypass Promote Weight Loss? A 40% Risk Of Gastric Bypass Complications? Is The Mini Gastric Bypass An Ideal Solution? Lap Band Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Banding The Theory Of Gastric Banding Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery The Adjustable Gastric Band The Newest And Safest Option Laparoscopic Gastric Band Is A Popular Choice Are You Suitable For Gastric Lap Banding? The Cost Of Lap Band Surgery Covering Your Lap Band Surgery Cost Lap Band Insurance Coverage The Risks Of Gastric Lap Band Surgery Problems Of Laparoscopic Gastric Banding The Risks Of Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery Lap Band Success Rate Lap Band Surgery To Cure Morbid Obesity Is Lap Banding The Answer For Obese Teenagers? Is Gastric Banding Simply Cosmetic Surgery? Gastric Band Surgery Is Not Always Advisable Losing Weight After Adjustable Gastric Banding Gastric Band Surgery Or Diet And Exercise Obesity Obesity Articles Morbid Obesity Morbid Obesity Is A Growing Problem Morbid Obesity Treatment Morbid Obesity And Getting The Help You Need An Obese Person Simply Eats Too Much Obesity Statistics | Obesity Rates and Graphs Psychological Treatments Improve Success Rates The Connection Between Leptin And Obesity The Failure Of Diet As A Solution For Obesity The First Non-Prescription Obesity Pills Obesity and Depression in America The Role Of Fast Food In Obesity The True Cost of the Obesity Epidemic Obesity Surgery Is Not Just About Losing Weight Obesity Questions Are You Simply Overweight Or Clinically Obese? Why Am I Obese And Just What Causes Obesity? When Does Obesity Become Life-Threatening? Are Genetics Another Way To Explain Obesity? Child Obesity The Dangers Of Childhood Obesity 9 Steps To Tackling Childhood Obesity Child Obesity Statistics Child Obesity Surveys Growing Teen Obesity Means More Surgery The Advisability Of Surgery In Teens Obesity At Young Ages Is Common Pure Fruit Juice To Lower Obesity In Children The Problem Of Child Obesity And School Menus Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Banding Traditional gastric bypass surgery (or bariatric surgery), such as the Roux en Y gastric bypass, has been used for many years now to tackle the problem of obesity for people with a BMI in excess of 40, or with a slightly lower BMI where other co-morbid conditions are also present. This form of surgery bypasses the greater part of the stomach by creating a small pouch at the top end of the stomach and separating this from the bulk of the stomach using a series of metal staples. In addition, it is common in most forms of gastric bypass surgery to also bypass part of the intestine. Today however we are increasingly seeing the stapling process replaced by a plastic, or more accurately silicon, gastric band which can be fitted laparoscopically (using keyhole surgical techniques) and which can then be easily adjusted in size through a port which is placed just under the patient’s skin. The use of gastric banding has become increasingly popular since its introduction in the mid 1980s and its licensing by the FDA for use in the USA in 2001. Its growth in popularity has also been helped along by its use by a number of well known figures such as Khaliah Ali, Brandon “Myzeria” Taylor, Joe Gannascoli (Sopranos) and Anne Diamond. Today gastric banding surgery is probably the most widely used form of weight loss surgery in Europe and, in particular, in Australia where it now represents more than 90% of all weight loss operations. The principle behind gastric band surgery, which is also referred to as lap-band surgery and is a form of restrictive weight loss surgery, is to reduce the effective size of the stomach from its usual 1000 ml down to as little as 15 ml by placing a band around the top of the stomach. In the commonly used laparoscopic adjustable form of this procedure a tube then joins the stomach band to a small port placed just under the surface of the skin which allows the surgeon to adjust the size of the band and thus the degree of restriction in allowing foods to pass from the newly reduced stomach into the main stomach. Because this form of obesity surgery merely reduces the size of the stomach and does not bypass the intestine patients can follow a far more normal diet than that required by other weight loss procedures and avoids many of the dietary and other health problems often associated with gastric bypass surgery. Gastric banding surgery causes you to lose those excess pounds more slowly and gradually than bypass surgery, although the results in the longer-term and similar. It also has the added benefit of curing, or at least reducing the effects of, several other conditions including diabetes, hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea and high cholesterol. Another benefit of course is seen in the cost of lap band surgery which is lower than that of traditional gastric bypass operations. As with most forms of obesity surgery, gastric band surgery carries risks and is not without complications. Nevertheless, patients who opt for gastric banding will generally enjoy a shorter stay in hospital, a faster recover and fewer complications. In addition, one major benefit of the gastric band is the ability to adjust the band after surgery so that a patient’s progress can be carefully monitored by doctors and adjustments made to meet the requirements of individual patients in the critical post-operative period when adjusting to life with a greatly reduced stomach size can be difficult. Despite the fact that the gastric band is a relatively new procedure there are now a variety of gastric band manufacturers (8 at this point in time) and as banding technology increases and surgeons gain experience in the gastric banding, there can be little doubt that the popularity of the gastric band will continue to grow. Previous: Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery Next: Gastric Bypass Pictures Tell The Real Weight Loss Story Interesting Posts Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy With Duodenal Switch The vertical sleeve gastrectomy with duodenal switch takes the standard restrictive sleeve gastrectomy and increases its effectiveness by adding a... The Importance Of Taking Supplements After Weight Loss Surgery One problem with several forms of weight loss surgery, and especially absorptive forms of surgery such as the Roux-en-Y and sleeve gastrectomy with... Morbid Obesity | Are You Morbidly Obese? Morbid obesity is a major and growing problem in much of the western world today and we have hopefully not left it too late to start educating people... Is Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding Simply Cosmetic Surgery? People have been having cosmetic surgery for many years now and more and more of us are popping in for everything from the traditional 'nose job' or... The First Non-Prescription Obesity Pills Have Arrived After a long wait the United States Food and Drug Administration has finally approved a diet pill which can be purchased over-the-counter and which... Childhood Obesity Facts | Child Obesity Surveys Obesity has been seen as a problem for many years now but it is only in the last few years, and particularly since the millennium, that surveys have... An Obese Person Simply Eats Too Much If you believe that there is no excuse for somebody putting on excessive weight and that an obese person simply eats too much and takes too little... The Problem Of Child Obesity And School Menus The incidence of obesity in children is climbing fast and the blame, to some degree, is being laid at the door of schools. Until now there has been... Copyright © Gas