<http://imva.info/?p=920>; rel=shortlink

IMVA – International Medical Veritas Association  » Blog Archive   » Magnesium Oil IMVA Medical Specialties Magnesium Medicine Iodine Medicine Bicarbonate Medicine Oncology Cardiology Diabetes Radiation Medicine Vaccines Online Clinic Natural Allopathic Medicine Swine Flu Information Center Climate Change Into the Ashes Agriculture News Books Blog Author Contact About IMVA History Consultation Testimonies Director Vaccines Childhood Immunization Swine Flu Treatments Swine Flu Madness Aluminum Hydroxide Assault on Humanity FluMist Pediatricians A Rebellion in HealthCare Doctors and Nurses Love to Inject Vaccine Wars Continue Crimes at the CDC Mercury Medicine Mercury Exposure Makes People Go Nuts Mercury and Cancer Mercury Causes Chronic Disease Dental Mercury Environmental Issues Chemical Radioactivity Mercury Contamination and the Flu Multiple Sclerosis Radiation Medicine Radiation at Extremely Low Levels Modern Madness and the Fall of Man Genetic Warfare Silent Nuclear War DNA and Mitochondrial Time Bombs Medical and Public Health Implications of Uranium Contamination Radiation Medicine and Sodium Bicarbonate Reducing Radiation Damages with Bicarbonate Media Video Radio Shows Free E-Book PDF Newsletter Our Sites Contact Magnesium Oil Home » Medical News Comentaries 27 April 2010 6 Comments Magnesium supplementation is actually crucial for everyone  today but we have to pay special attention to the method of supplementation  because this is critical in terms of effective body utilization. “Magnesium is poorly absorbed orally. That is why I start off with injections. By injecting magnesium I can guarantee  100% to bring the levels up. I cannot guarantee to do this with oral  magnesium,” says Dr. Sarah Myhill. Dr. Garry Gordon could not agree with her more. What Dr. Myhill did  not know when she said this was the discovery of a natural form of magnesium  chloride that comes from sea water. Called Magnesium Oil, it is a natural substance that can be applied to the skin or poured  into ones’ bath like Epsom salts. Magnesium chloride, applied transdermally is the ideal magnesium delivery system with  medical benefits unequalled in the entire world of medicine. Yet one does not  need a doctor to prescribe or administer it. One can relax in a medicinal bath,  without a doctor’s prescription or simply put it on the skin and have someone  massage you for sublime effect. Transdermal delivery of medicines is generally considered safer, more  efficient, convenient and less painful than  injections or IV’s. Most doctors and patients think of magnesium chloride as a medicine that can be injected while you  are having a heart attack and it does save the day for both heart  and stroke patients if used quickly enough. I first  introduced “Magnesium Oil” in my book Transdermal Magnesium Therapy and  have been astonished from the beginning of what a wonderful thing this  substance is and how it has benefited so many people. What I have found is that magnesium chloride, applied transdermally, is the ideal magnesium  delivery system – with health benefits unequalled in the entire world of  medicine. Nothing short of a miracle is to be expected with increases in the  cellular levels of magnesium if those levels have been depleted. There is no wonder  drug that can claim, in the clear, what magnesium chloride can do. Most people will show dramatic  improvements in the state of their health when they replete their magnesium  levels in an effective manner. When we first started talking about the magnesium I was dying. I knew it inside. I am no  longer dying. I feel life in me. I am so happy. With magnesium oil, the concentrate can simply be applied to the  skin or poured into bath water, and in an instant  we have a powerful medical treatment. Intensive transdermal and oral magnesium therapy can be safely  applied day in and day out for consistent health benefits.  Magnesium oil is nothing short of a miracle  to a person deficient in magnesium. So clear and  observable are the effects that there is no mistake, no mysticism, no false  claim made. There are not too many medicinal substances or medicines that can  make this claim. It should be noted that pain management with magnesium  employs magnesium oil applied transdermally to the skin. Dr. Linda  Rapson, who specializes in treating chronic pain, believes that about 70  per cent of her patients who complain of muscle pain, cramps and fatigue are  showing signs of magnesium deficiency. “Virtually all of them improve when I put them on  magnesium,” says Rapson, who runs a busy Toronto  pain clinic. “It may sound too good to be true, but it’s a fact.”  She’s seen the mineral work in those with  fibromyalgia, migraines and constipation. “The  scientific community should take a good hard look at this.” [1] Daniel Reid, author of Tao  of Detox says, “Using magnesium oil is the quickest and most  convenient way to transmit magnesium chloride into the cells and tissues  through the skin. 2-3 sprays under each armpit function as a highly effective  deodorant, while at the same time transporting magnesium swiftly through the  thin skin into the glands, lymph channels, and bloodstream, for distribution  throughout the body. Spray it onto the back of the hand or the top of the feet  any time of day or night for continuous magnesium absorption. Regardless of  where you apply the spray on the body, once it penetrates the surface of the  skin, the body transports it to whichever tissues need magnesium most.” Magnesium Oil and Sports Medicine Magnesium Oil can be applied directly to inflamed areas. Transdermal magnesium therapy offers an  exciting breakthrough in sports medicine. Coaches can now  treat injuries, prevent them, and increase athletic performance all at the same  time. Magnesium Oil enhances recovery from athletic activity or injuries. It  reduces pain and inflammation while propagating quicker  regeneration of tissues. Topical application of magnesium chloride increases  flexibility, which helps avoid injury. It also increases strength and  endurance. Transdermal Magnesium Therapy is a boon for athletes, coaches and  doctors who practice sports medicine. Dr. Jeff Schutt says that hamstring injuries can be avoided through  nutritional support because contraction and relaxation is dependent on adequate  cellular levels of magnesium. “A shortened hamstring is a result of lack of  available magnesium,” he says. Liquid magnesium chloride can be simply sprayed and  rubbed into a sore Achilles tendon to decrease swelling. And  soaking the feet in a magnesium chloride footbath is the single best thing –  apart from stretching – that you can do for yourself to protect from, or  recover from hamstring and other injuries. Magnesium Massage One of the most luxurious medical  treatments on earth is to receive magnesium massages with magnesium oil on a  consistent basis. Having an ounce of magnesium oil rubbed over one’s body by either a trained or  massage therapist or by a loved one is heavenly. There are many ways to calm a person, many healing and medical  treatments that can reduce stress, reduce sensory overload, slow the heart and help a person center and  nothing does this better than touch. The most beautiful forms of touch are  healing techniques and this is what professional massage therapists’ true aim is, to  heal through touch. The skin provides the best avenue into the body for many  medicinals. When it comes to magnesium we have a method in our hands that is  similar in effect to intravenous magnesium treatments that are used to save  peoples’ lives in emergency rooms. We simply use the magnesium oil like we would massage oils,  or create a special blend mixing essential oil or other massage oils together  with the magnesium chloride, which is quite slippery even though there is no oil in the  ‘magnesium oil.’ Massage therapists should be introducing their clients to the  tremendous benefits of a magnesium massage and it is they who should  suggest to their clients to start using it at home. Transdermal application of magnesium is  superior to the commonly recommended oral magnesium supplements where absorption is typically  poor. In magnesium chloride oil we have a potent natural  substance that penetrates the cells with stunning result on cell biochemistry  and when loving touch is added to the mix the results are heartwarming to say  the least. In general, for a large adult, spraying an ounce or more of magnesium  oil a day all over the body is  recommended for six months to recover cellular levels, with that dosage adjusted  downward for children depending on their age and size. This coupled with oral  intake, especially for adults, is necessary to get the maximum effect out of  magnesium. When magnesium levels are at extremely low levels intravenous  application is an option and is necessary in emergency situations. Very strong  therapeutic magnesium baths yield another level of effect. Such baths compete  with intravenous applications but they are no substitute for in emergency  situations. Magnesium Oil and Relief of Pain Pain relief and muscle relaxation  for people with arthritis and muscle cramping is an  important and significant benefit of magnesium oil. Magnesium applied directly to the skin alleviates chronic pain, muscle cramps, and in general makes our job of opening up and  softening muscles and connective tissue much easier. Magnesium is a potent  vasodilator, and smooth muscle relaxant. The Purest Magnesium Oil For the very purest magnesium oil we now have to turn to Europe. Deep underground is a 250 million old inactive  sea of magnesium chloride oil that has never been  touched by modern day pollution and there is enough of it down there to last  humanity hundreds of years. It is so pure that I use it diluted as a mouthwash  and then swallow what is in my mouth for oral supplementation. It is ideal not  only for oral intake but also seems to be better tolerated by the skin, even  when used at full strength. This magnesium oil  is called Ancient  Minerals . Personally I have just had two cataract operations and I used  magnesium chloride eye drops that I made up  myself using this pure magnesium oil diluted 15 parts distilled water to one part magnesium. The  surgery was a success and my recovery was quick. This same magnesium can be put  in a nebulizer and can be used at home by patients both before and after  surgery both orally and transdermally to great effect. Surgeons  need to become familiar with the transdermal approach for then they can  start their patients off with heavy application weeks before surgery and for  weeks after since this method of application can easily be done at home by  patients. For use with a nebulizer again I recommend only the purest magnesium  available. Even the pharmaceutical grades have heavy metal contamination so are not  suitable. Testimony I’ve just started using the magnesium oil on my 7yr old ASD son. He’s always tested very low in magnesium and I don’t believe oral  supplementation is doing that much. I put a few tablespoons of the  oil in his bath water, and I also spray it onto my hands & rub it into his skin  (tops of his feet & elbows). The reason I chose his elbows was  because he’s had this rash (large, bumpy, flesh colored) for quite some time. The magnesium stung at first when I rubbed it on, but after just a few  nights, the rash is gone from one elbow and fading from the other! Rose  Langford [1] www.ctv.ca/servlet/ArticleNews/story/CTVNews/20020923/favaro_magnesium020923/CTVNewsAt11/story/ Related posts: Magnesium Massage – Hospice and Palliative Care 6 Comments » Meghabhuti Roth said: Dear Mark, When I look at your photo and hear your voice, I am concerned that you may have a mild case of hypothyroidism. I am sure that you already know this but to remind you- if your basal body temperature measurement is below 97.8, then it is likely that you do have hypothyroidism which is easily remedied with a little natural thyroid supplementation if iodine and antioxidants don’t do the trick. An absolutely classic book which I have not seen you mention in your writings and is a must read for all natural healers is one called “Hypothyroidism, the Unsuspected Illness” by Broda Barnes- a book I learned about by reading David Brownstein’s books. Broda contended in 1975 that 40% of us have hypothyroidism but now I am sure that it is much higher in percentage do to the pollution with bromine and fluorine as well as the diminution of Iodine intake. He was able to unequivocally prove with hard scientific research that all heart disease and complications of diabetes can be prevented with normalization of the thyroid balance. He also proved unequivocally that almost all hypertension could be cured with thyroid replacement. Dearest brother, I cannot thank you enough for the tremendous help your writings are to me in my practice of medicine! I am applying them daily and trying to cover all you writings as soon as possible as I have so much to learn from you . All the best, Meghabhuti # 12 July 2011 at 11:38 pm Natural Allopathic Medicine | Dr. Mark's Blog said: [...] many medicinals simultaneously. But still, no matter how deeply I have gotten into other medicines, magnesium chloride remains the heavyweight champion and ALWAYS needs to be included in EVERYONE’S daily [...] # 14 December 2011 at 6:46 pm Mary Ann Spade said: Would magnesium oil treat restless leg syndrome and  where to purchase it if it does? # 23 March 2012 at 2:10 pm Claudia - IMVA Staff said: Dear Mary Ann, Yes, Magnesium is often very helpful for restless leg syndrome.   We suggest you use it transdermally just before bedtime.    Ancient MInerals Magnesium OIl is available from LL’s Magnetic Clay Co. http://www.magneticclay.com/store/Departments/Ancient-Minerals-Magnesium-Oil.aspx # 24 March 2012 at 3:41 am always searching said: Magnesium oil spray makes an excellent underarm deodorant! I’ve used magnesium oil as a deodorant for two weeks already during the start of the warm season in Houston. Just 2 sprays under each arm every morning after a shower. It is not an antiperspirant per se, but used together with a natural deodrant (e.g. Tom’s brand) the result is that of a good conventional antiperspirant Women (like me) who fear breast cancer from using conventional aluminum-based deodorants may want to try magnesium oil. The 8-oz bottle will probably last a full year, which would be quite a savings over conventional deodorant products at $1 per ounce. # 9 April 2012 at 6:22 pm Claudia - IMVA Staff said: Thanks Always Searching, I too have used it as an underarm deodorant spray and am amazed how well it works.  Thanks for sharing! # 10 April 2012 at 12:19 am Leave your response! Add your comment below, or trackback from your own site. You can also subscribe to these comments via RSS. Be nice. Keep it clean. Stay on topic. No spam. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website (optional) You can use these tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> This is a Gravatar-enabled weblog. To get your own globally-recognized-avatar, please register at Gravatar . Watch our channel on: join our mailing list Email Address What do you prefer? (You can choose both) A Weekly Compilation As Soon as Posted on The Blog Close Your donations help keep this information coming to you and others in need. IMVA Highlights Radiation Protection Magnesium Chloride Oil Therapy Superfood for Cellular Survival Nascent Iodine Protocol Orientation Center The protocol has been called Natural Chemo when used for cancer patients and Natural Emergency Medicine when used in emergency situations. Our IMVA protocol offers raw healing horsepower as well as a paradigm shift in treatment focus. Though physicians might choose to administer parts of the protocol intravenously we teach patients how to administer the protocol safely at home with oral and transdermal methods of application. Imagine receiving your medical treatment right in the comfort of your own home like this. Read more Testimonials Dr. Mark Sircus is one of the best health writer, researchers living! He is truly amazing and I want to help him spread his powerful and useful medical information. Dr. Garry Gordon Known as the "father" of chelation theory and practice; many informed people consider Dr. Gordon as one of the most brilliant medical doctors on earth. See more Online Clinic Swine Flu Information Center Climate Change About IMVA History Consultation Testimonies Director Newsletter Our Sites Contact Media Video Radio Shows Free E-Book PDF Vaccines Childhood Immunization Swine Flu Treatments Swine Flu Madness Aluminum Hydroxide Assault on Humanity FluMist Pediatricians A Rebellion in HealthCare Doctors and Nurses Love to Inject Vaccine Wars Continue Crimes at the CDC Mercury Medicine Mercury and Cancer Mercury Causes Chronic Disease Dental Mercury Environmental Issues Chemical Radioactivity Mercury Contamination and the Flu Multiple Sclerosis Radiation Medicine Radiation at Extremely Low Levels Modern Madness and the Fall of Man Genetic Warfare Silent Nuclear War DNA and Mitochondrial Time Bombs Medical and Public Health Implications of Uranium Contamination Radiation Medicine and Sodium Bicarbonate Reducing Radiation Damages with Bicarbonate Mark Sircus On Twitter My heart is quivering for the one I love most in this world is traveling for the next two weeks and I have a... http://t.co/8f9h4yJP 19 hours ago International Medical Veritas Association Entries (RSS) | Comments (RSS) LEGAL NOTICE: The Author specifically invokes the First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and of the press without prejudice. The information you will receive with our consultations is for informational purposes only under the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution for the United States of America, and should not in any way be used as a substitute for the advice of a physician or other licensed health care practitioner. The statements contained on my sites and in my books have not been evaluated by the FDA. The products discussed are not intended to diagnose, cure, prevent or treat any disease but are proven useful for health and life extension. We always recommend when and wherever possibl