
The Buzz Newsletter Iowa 
            Honey Producers Association The 
                Buzz Newsletter January 
                2008 Page 6 THE  BEEYARD REPORT It's  December. There's not much to write about. I'm in the regeneration mode. All I  have to worry about in December is taking care of my delivery route and getting  the yard rent out. Yard rent gets to be time consuming. The only  time I see some of the landowners is when I take the yard rent. It's not  uncommon to go somewhere and spend the afternoon. I enjoy that but I get a  little pressed for time as Christmas draws closer. Adam got  a grant from the Garst Foundation to study in the U.K. over the winter. He left  right after the annual meeting and will return February 18th. He is researching  his thesis which is on 19th century English beekeeping. We  finalized our building plans today (Dec 14th). We won't actually have anything  underway until early spring. We're going to add 40' on to the honey house. What a  difference a year makes. At the end of November last year, it was warm and we  were still looking at  bees. Most of them  still had brood. This year it is just nasty. Snow  arrived to cover up the ice. Now, we have  rain and ice on top of the snow. I have to use the four wheel drive pickup to  get up and down the driveway. We may have a real winter. At least, I don't have  to go out if it's bad. I can really sleep on the overcast mornings. I'm just  now getting my tanks empty and the extracting line cleaned up. The other year  end project is getting my books up to date. Every year I work hard getting the  bees winterized but seldom get around to doing anything about the house. The  windows need a lot of work. At least, we got the two worst ones replaced last  winter. I'll  coast into January and take in the national meeting. After that, it will be  time to start booking package bees. There are a lot of boxes to be fixed and  plans to be made. I'll take in some basketball games and work at getting the  honey sold that we are not going to bottle. There are 96 barrels in the  warehouse right now. Some  weeks after the tornado, I discovered I had some broken rafters in the honey  house. There was also a hole in the roof in a rather obscure location. Something  had come down on the roof really hard. It was an easy fix. I laid some new  rafters beside the broken ones and put part of a sheet, that I had salvaged off  the barn, over the hole. Once we  get past the first of the year and the days begin to noticeably lengthen, I  feel like it's a downhill run to spring. I remember reading a James Michener  book in high school titled "The Fires of Spring". I remember nothing  of the book except the title but I always think of it as spring draws closer. I hope everyone had a nice  holiday season. Submitted by Phil Ebert Honey makes medical comeback Potent type used as  antibiotic amid fears of drug-resistant superbugs The Associated Press  Dec. 26. 2007 TRENTON, New Jersey - Amid growing concern  over drug-resistant superbugs and nonhealing wounds that endanger diabetes  patients, nature's original antibiotic — honey — is making a comeback. More than 4,000 years after Egyptians began  applying honey to wounds, Derma Sciences Inc., a New Jersey company that makes  medicated and other advanced wound care products, began selling the first  honey-based dressing this fall after it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration. Called Medihoney, it is made from a highly  absorbent seaweed-based material, saturated with manuka honey, a particularly  potent type that experts say kills germs and speeds healing. Also called  Leptospermum honey, manuka honey comes from hives of bees that collect nectar  from manuka and jelly bushes in Australia and New Zealand. Antibiotics becoming ineffective Derma Sciences now sells two Medihoney dressings to hospitals, clinics and  doctors in North and South America under a deal with supplier Comvita LP of New  Zealand. Derma Sciences hopes to have its dressings in U.S. drug stores in the  next six months, followed by adhesive strips. Comvita, which controls about 75 percent of  the world's manuka honey supply, sells similar products under its own name in  Australia, New Zealand and Europe, where such products have been popular for  over a decade. "The reason that Medihoney is so  exciting is that antibiotics are becoming ineffective at fighting  pathogens," said Derma Sciences CEO Ed Quilty. Another big advantage, he said, is that the  dressings' germ-fighting and fluid-absorbing effects last up to a week, making  them convenient for patients being cared for at outpatient clinics or by  visiting nurses. They also reduce inflammation and can eliminate the foul odors  of infected wounds. Since receiving FDA approval, Medihoney has  brought in sales of $150,000 in 10 weeks and Quilty plans to nearly double his  15-person sales force in 2008 thanks to the two new Medihoney products. Healing  wounds Honey dressings and gels, as well as tubes of manuka honey, have been  gaining in popularity overseas, fueled by scientific reports on their medical  benefits and occasional ( continued on Page 7 ) IHPA Home Page | The Buzz Newslet