Connection: close

magnesium amino acid chelate Oral Uses and How to Use Your Prescription Drug Destination See all our sites for your special health needs at www.HealthCentral.com magnesium amino acid chelate Oral Search: Choose a suggestion... ...or just finish typing Site Web Drugs A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z BY CONDITION Font size A A A Email This Bookmark magnesium amino acid chelate Oral In Depth Uses and How to Use Precautions and Side Effects Drug Interactions Dosage and Storage Generic Name: MAGNESIUM SUPPLEMENT - ORAL Pronounced: (mag-NEE-zee-um) magnesium amino acid chelate Oral Uses This medication is a mineral supplement used to prevent
		  and treat low amounts of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is very important
		  for the normal functioning of cells, nerves, muscles, bones, and the heart.
		  Usually, a well-balanced diet provides normal blood levels of magnesium.
		  However, certain situations cause your body to lose magnesium faster than you
		  can replace it from your diet. These situations include treatment with "water
		  pills" (diuretics such as furosemide, hydrochlorothiazide), a poor diet,
		  alcoholism, or other medical conditions (e.g., severe diarrhea/vomiting,
		  stomach/intestinal absorption problems, poorly controlled
		  diabetes). advertisement How To Use magnesium amino acid chelate Oral Take this product by mouth as directed. Follow all
		  directions on the product package. If you are uncertain about any of the
		  information, consult your doctor or pharmacist. It is best to take magnesium supplements with a meal to
		  reduce stomach upset and diarrhea unless otherwise directed by the product
		  instructions or your doctor. Take each dose with a full glass (8 ounces or 240
		  milliliters) of water unless your doctor directs you otherwise. Swallow
		  extended-release capsules whole. Do not crush or chew extended-release capsules
		  or tablets. Doing so can release all of the drug at once, increasing the risk
		  of side effects. Also, do not split extended-release tablets unless they have a
		  score line and your doctor or pharmacist tells you to do so. Swallow the whole
		  or split tablet without crushing or chewing. If you are using a liquid product, use a medication
		  measuring device to carefully measure the dose. Do not use a household spoon
		  because you may not get the correct dose. If you are using a suspension, shake
		  the bottle well before each dose. Take this medication regularly in order to get the most
		  benefit from it. Remember to take it at the same time(s) each day. Dosage is
		  based on your medical condition and response to treatment. Do not increase your
		  dose or take it more often than directed on the product package or by your
		  doctor. Too much magnesium in the blood can cause serious side
		  effects. Tell your doctor if symptoms of low magnesium blood levels
		  (e.g., muscle cramps, tiredness, irritability, depression) persist or worsen.
		  If you think you may have a serious medical problem, seek immediate medical
		  attention. Next Section Precautions and Side Effects Font size A A A Email This Bookmark People who read this also read... What's HOT Home Body Fat Test Calculate your Ideal Body Weight Body Mass Index (BMI) Calculator SPF Quiz: How Well Do You Know Your Sunscreen? Are you at risk for type 2 diabetes? Other  Drugs Abilify Crestor Nexium Lipitor Viagra Zyrtec Most Viewed Kidney Infection Cipro Celexa Drugs and Medicines Swollen Lymph Nodes Wellbutrin Zoloft Gallbladder Removal Featuring Content From: About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Security Policy By using this service, you accept our Terms of Use. Please read them .
			The consumer health information on HealthSquare.com is for informational purposes only and is not
			a substitute for medical advice or treatment for any medical conditions. You should promptly seek
			professional medical care if you have any concern about your health, and you should always consult
			your physician before starting a fitness regimen. Copy