Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Accupucture.(spelling)? Health Questions and Answers Accupucture.(spelling)? i am wondering about accupuncture. what are the benifits & how does it perceive. i've been thinking almost getting it for a while but i want to hear some personal experiences before i fashion a choice . please give me your opinion thankyou =] Answer: I'm an acupuncturist myself.  The proper spelling is acupuncture, from the latin acus (needle) and punctura (I think you know what that means). The benefits of acupuncture is the certainty that it is non-pharmacologic, and so it won't interfere with any western medicine that you may be currently taking. Acupuncture is very obedient for a variety of disorders.  Here are excerpts from a website: What is acupuncture? Acupuncture is one of the oldest, most commonly used medical procedures contained by the world. Originating in China more than 2,000 years ago, acupuncture begin to become better known surrounded by the United States in 1971, when New York Times reporter James Reston wrote nearly how doctors in China used needles to luxury his pain after surgery . The permanent status acupuncture describes a family of procedures involving stimulation of anatomical points on the body by different techniques. American practices of acupuncture incorporate medical traditions from China, Japan, Korea, and other countries. The acupuncture technique that have been most studied scientifically involves pointed the skin with tough, solid, metallic needles that are manipulated by the hand or by electrical stimulation. What does acupuncture feel similar to? Acupuncture needles are metallic, solid, and hair-thin. People experience acupuncture differently, but most feel no or minimal aching as the needles are inserted. Some people are energized by treatment , while others discern relaxed. Improper needle placement, movement of the merciful, or a defect within the needle can rationale soreness and pain during treatment . This is why it is celebrated to seek treatment from a qualified acupuncture practitioner. According to the NIH Consensus Statement on Acupuncture , nearby have be many studies on acupuncture's potential usefulness, but results hold been mixed because of complexities beside study design and size, as well as difficulties near choosing and using placebos or sham acupuncture. However, promising results hold emerged, showing efficacy of acupuncture, for example, surrounded by adult postoperative and chemotherapy nausea and vomiting and surrounded by postoperative dental pain . There are other situations--such as addiction , stroke rehabilitation, headache , menstrual cramps, tennis elbow, fibromyalgia , myofascial headache , osteoarthritis , low-back pain , carpal tunnel syndrome , and asthma--in which acupuncture may be adjectives as an adjunct treatment or an agreeable alternative or be included in a comprehensive administration program. An NCCAM-funded study recently showed that acupuncture provides dull pain relief, improve function for people near osteoarthritis of the knee, and serves as an important complement to standard care. Personally I own also used acupuncture to treat obesity, depression and menstrual problems.  I myself used to hold migraines but I had a single treatment two years ago and haven't have an attack until just second week. I've never tried it, but wouldn't be opposed to it.  Here's a cooperation to check out: http://www.acufinder.com/acupuncture+com... It all depends what you want to hold acupuncture for . . . . My daughter (aged 4 at the time) had outrageous hayfever which manifested itself beside an incredibly itchy face. She be scratching adjectives the time and the scratch have almost become a habit for her. We do not use 'conventional' medication unless really necessary, as we prefer to use fluent remedies as far as possible. Homeopathic treatment alleviated the symptoms, but the habit to score her face have developed into more of a 'tic' by this stage and so we decided to look into acupuncture. We found a practitioner who specialises surrounded by working with children - though he have never worked on a child as young as 4 in the past! We took her along and he did a full history on her - basically, past you can be treated, the practitioner needs to know as much as possible nearly your medical background as this help them to sort out the best treatment (much like a homeopath does.) Anyway, my daughter have small sterile needles placed at points by her elbows, knees, between her eyes and a few other points. She is a very confident and unflappable child and took it all surrounded by her stride  - she felt the needles step in at first but said they be just a moment or two pin prick feeling, not a strain. She said it made her feel really unflustered and gave her a thaw out and happy premonition. It took 2 treatments like this for her tic to stop - and it hasn't returned! I wouldn't suggest acupuncture to adjectives 4 year olds - you have to know that the child can appreciate it and not fear it (my daughter have no fear of needles, etc) but I thought I would consent to you know that if my small daughter benefitted from it, I am sure that others do; if she could handle the needles I am sure you can, and if it help her, I am sure that there is something to influence for its beneficial qualities! I hope you draw from some good answers here - I am truly looking into having it done myself! Oh - transport a look online for registered practitioners - and use a recommended one, not just anyone! UK - try:   www.acupuncture.org.uk US: try:    www.medicalacupuncture.org Good luck! The correct spelling is acupuncture, inserting fine needles at the sundry points of the body corresponding to energy meridians. Is supposed to stability the flow of chi in the body and match the yin and the yang. Very effective within the right hands and you should mind of infections from poorly sterilised needles. Treatment can be expensive. Try acupressure if you are not very sure. Acupuncture is cut of TCM.  It is meant to serve unblock the flow of "qi" or "energy".  It involves inserting needles along points on your meridian ditch. When there is a blockage contained by your energy flow, this can result contained by illnesses.  There are several case studies in our day proving that acupuncture really works.  However, a lot also depends on the skill of the practitioner.  Be sure to return with one that has plenty of referral. More Questions and Answers... Should I flex the muscle surrounded by my leg when I inject myself near Avonex? Prune As Laxative? What are some well brought-up topicals that relief near sunburn? Health Categories Home Alternative Medicine Dental Diet Fitness Diseases Conditions General Health Care Men's Health Mental Health General - Health Women's Health Medicine CopyR