
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 12:16:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 11:16:39 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Weight Loss Surgery Candidate - Qualifying for Weight Loss Surgery - How To Qualify for Weight Loss Surgery About.com Health Surgery Surgery Search Surgery Procedures Before After Share Free Surgery Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Are You a Candidate For Weight-Loss Surgery? Weight Loss Surgery Isn't For Everyone By Jennifer Heisler, RN , About.com Guide Updated March 09, 2011 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the Medical Review Board See More About: talking to your surgeon weight loss surgery Weight Loss Surgery Comparison owner: Walter Pories, M.D., F.A.C.S. Courtesy of NIH Everyone is not a candidate for weight loss surgery . While the final decision of whether or not you should have weight loss surgery is made by your surgeon, there are general guidelines that most surgeons and insurance companies adhere to when choosing who is an appropriate patient. Surprisingly enough, patients can actually be too obese and not obese enough to qualify for weight loss surgery.   Those who are too heavy are instructed to lose weight before the surgeon can proceed with the operation, while patients who are too thin are advised that the risks of surgery outweigh the benefits in their case. While a few centers in the United States are performing weight loss surgeries on patients under the age of 18, most surgeons prefer to wait until the patient is older and better equipped to make a life-altering decision. General Guidelines for Weight Loss Surgery Candidates: BMI of 40 or greater Comorbidity: You have a life-shortening disease process, heart disease, diabetes or obstructive sleep apnea, that can be improved by losing weight. For at least two years, you have attempted  to lose weight. You have been obese for an extended period of time, at least three to five years. You are able to effectively care for yourself and follow a physician’s instructions. You are motivated to lose weight and maintain a healthful lifestyle. You do not abuse drugs or alcohol. You are a nonsmoker or have quit smoking. You are an adult under the age of 65. If you meet these guidelines, you may be a candidate for weight loss surgery.  Your surgeon will be the one to make the final decision; however, this list should help you determine if you meet the criteria. Sources Bariatric Surgery For Severe Obesity. Consumer Information Sheet. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. March 2008. http:// http://win.niddk.nih.gov/publications/gastric.htm Jones,Nicolas V. Christou, MD, PhD; Didier, Look, MD; and Lloyd D. MacLean, MD, PhD. " Weight Gain After Short- and Long-Limb Gastric Bypass in Patients Followed for Longer Than 10 Years." Annals of Surgery 2006 November; 244(5): 734–740. Suggested Reading Weight Loss Surgery A-Z 25 Weight Loss Surgery Tips The Risks of Weight Loss Surgery Talk to Your Surgeon Signs You Should Call Your Weight Loss Surgeon Coping With Surgical Fear & Anxiety How to Pay For Surgery-Even if Insurance Doesn't Three Types of Weight Loss Surgery Adjustable Gastric (Lap-Band) Banding Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Surgery Biliopancreatic Diversion With Switch Related Articles Weight Loss Surgery and Heart Disease - Does Weight Loss Surgery Reduce Hea... Is Weight Loss Surgery Right for You? Is Weight Loss Surgery Right For You? Weight Loss Surgery - Gastric Bypass - Gastroplasty - Lap Band Sleeve Gastrectomy Weight Loss Surgery - Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy Weight... Jennifer Heisler, RN Surgery Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Video Causes and Types of Hearing Loss Knee Replacement Surgery More Videos See All About.com Videos Related Searches consumer information sheet weight loss surgery weight loss surgeries kidney diseases sleep apnea healthful lifestyle Explore Surgery Must Reads Do You Really Need Surgery? Choosing a Surgeon Coping With Surgery Anxiety Preparing for Surgery Your Recovery Most Popular Signs of Infection Heart Blood Flow Coagulation Studies Chem 7 Be a Doctor or Surgeon See More About: talking to your surgeon weight loss surgery By Category Procedures A-Z Find the Right Surgeon Before Surgery After Surgery Coping with Surgery Questions & Answers Surgery for Women Surgery For Men Pediatric Surgery Advances in Surgery Glossary Surgery About.com Health Surgery Before Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Candidate - Qualifying for Weight Loss Surgery - How To Qualify for Weight Loss Surgery Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod