
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 18:10:01 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.bedfan.com/night_sweats/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Heart Palpitations | Night Sweats - Menopause - Hot Flashes - Sleeping hot Night Sweats – Menopause – Hot Flashes – Sleeping hot Taking the heat out of your sleep Home Ending Night Sweats Posts Tagged ‘Heart Palpitations’ Discover Menopause Natural Treatments August 28th, 2011 | Author: nightsweats An early symptom of menopause is heart palpitations, which is a condition in which premature contractions of the heart, make it beat more than usual pumping twice as much blood to the heart and resulting in rapid heart beats. The fact is that increased levels of cortisol, which makes the heart work overtime and causes unease, precipitates diabetes and high blood pressure in many women who are in their menopause stage. Sage is a herbal remedy that have been proven to lessen the severity of menopause in women as a daily dose of sage tea in the day time can reduce the number of hot flashes usually experienced at night. Black cohosh is a herbal remedy that derives its potency from its ability to stall the production of a hormone called the luteinizing hormone which is believed to cause various side effects of menopause including not flashes. A common menopause symptoms is mood swings which has to do with uncontrollable shifts in emotions that vary from high to low. However, it is a fact that consistent exercises help in enhancing moods and stimulates the release of endorphins, also known as “happy hormones” that improve the mood and serves as a painkiller in times of injury. You might also consider menopause vitamins, in addition to herbal remedies to address perimenopause symptoms . Get useful information about the topic of healthy asian diet – please  read this web site. The times have come when proper info is really within your reach, use this chance. Posted in Hot Flashes | Tags: Asian Diet , Black Cohosh , Cortisol , Early Menopause , Effects Of Menopause , Heart Palpitations , Heart Work , Herbal Remedy , High Blood Pressure , Hot Flashes , Information About The Topic , Luteinizing Hormone , menopause supplements , Menopause Symptoms , Mood Swings , Perimenopause Symptoms , Rapid Heart , Sage Tea , Side Effects Of Menopause , Symptom Of Menopause , Work Overtime | No Comments » 17 Signs Of Menopause That Could Be Affecting Your Life And Body August 17th, 2010 | Author: nightsweats Do you know what the signs of menopause are? If you are a woman, then this is something you need to know so you can learn to deal with this change that will eventually happen in every woman’s life. Knowing the signs will help you determine which ones are affecting you so you can find the best treatment for them. There are quite a few signs that you need to know about and the following are some of the most common. - Muscles and joints that ache - Symptoms for allergy - Tenderness in your breasts - Always feeling sluggish in the morning and also constand fatigue - Hands and feet feel cold or tingle - Anxiety, depression and mood swings - Feeling lightheaded or dizzy - Your skin feels thin, wrinkly or dry - Growth of facial hair - Loss of hair or hair thinning - Headaches or migraines - Heart palpitations - Irregular, lighter or even heavier periods than usual - Hot flashes - Not able to deal with stress and being irritable - Cramps in your legs - Low metabolism These are just a few of the signs that you need to be aware of so you can figure out if any of them are affecting your life. Finding the treatment for dealing with the symptoms will be much easier when you know the symptoms you are dealing with. It is always a good idea for you to visit your doctor and let them help you determine if you are going through menopause or not. Do the smart thing and visit your doctor because with their knowledge they will be able to help you deal with the changes your body is going through. There are also two other important things you want to do to help you deal with any of these signs of menopause. You have to eat a healthy diet and exercise on a regular basis because this will help relieve your symptoms. A healthy diet is important for everyone, but especially for women that are going through menopause. You want to eat fresh fruits and vegetables , along with whole grains and lean meats. Exercising is important because it will help your body produce endorphins that will help to relieve some of the symptoms that you may be dealing with. Be sure you find an exercise that you will be able to do on a regular basis and that is easy for you to do. Exercising 5 times a week and doing it consistently will provide the most benefit for your body and symptoms. Having this information about the signs of menopause and a few of the ways that you can help to relieve these symptoms; you are more able to deal with the changes happening in your body effectively. You have to remember that it will eventually end, but it will take time. Please visit our signs of menopause website today if you enjoyed this article by Jeff Schuman. You will find helpful menopause information and tips so you will have an easier time dealing with it. http://www.everythingmenopause.com Posted in Uncategorized | Tags: Ache , Anxiety Depression , Cramps , Diet Exercise , Facial Hair Loss , Fresh Fruits And Vegetables , Fruits And Vegetables , Fruits Vegetables , Hands And Feet , Healthy Diet , Heart Palpitations , Hot Flashes , Important Things , Lean Meats , Loss Of Hair , Menopause , Menopause Signs , Metabolism , Mood Swings , Signs of Menopause , Symptoms , Symptoms Of Menopause , Whole Grains | 1 Comment » The Night Sweats Blog How To Get A Good Rate On Life Insurance A Guide On How To Obtain Neck Tie For Your Bridal Thyroid Cancer Survival Rate – How High Or Low The Possible Rates For Each Stage Motorized Bicycle Finest Techniques To Avoiding The Common Cold Call For Improved Oxygen Concentrations In Body Tissues ‘It’ Bags Are The Standard Cars Of The Model Established Cheap Jordans Space Jams Boots Or Shoes Will Be An Awesome Running Shoe Price Applying AstroTurf On Top Of Regular Lawn To Strengthen Your Backyard Sweating It sc341 on 17 Signs Of Menopause That Could Be Affecting Your Life And Body admin on Mattress Ticking to soak up night sweats Indiana Mattress Store on Mattress Ticking to soak up night sweats Marlin C Erie on Herbal Remedies Are They Effective? Philis Heldstab on Night Sweats – A Pointer of concealed troubles Nichole Kilimnik on Florida case could be giving Pfizer & Wyeth Night Sweats Dov on Manage Frozen Shoulder Efficiently in Three Ways Anita on How To Slash Your Prostate Cancer Risk – With Sunlight! Night Sweats Topics auto insurance Automobile Automobile Insurance cancer Candida Candida Albicans Candida Infection Candida Treatment Candida Yeast car insurance cheap car insurance clothing Fashion Fungus Garments health Hormone Replacement Therapy Hot Flashes Insurance Insurance Coverage islamic fashion menapause Menopause Menopause Symptoms Micro Organism Mood Swings Muslim Woman Muslim Women Natural cure for yeast infection Night sweats Pashmina Shawl Pashmina Shawls Physique Remedy Scarves Sleep Symptoms Of Menopause vagina Vehicle Insurance woman Yeast Infection Yeast infection cure Yeast infection cures Yeast Infections Yeast infection treatments Don’t’ Sweat it Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Contact Us | Terms of Use | Trademarks | Privacy Statement Copyright © 2009 Night Sweats - Menopause - Hot Flashes - Sleeping hot. All Rights Reserved. Powe