
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 20:10:05 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Muscle Cramps Treatment | Muscle Cramps Remedy | Leg Cramp Remedies Home >> Ask a question >> Health Advice Treat Leg Cramps My Mother-in-law suffers from severe cramps in her leg at night and feels it is caused from drinking wine. Is this a cause? ( 6 Jan 2010) Severe cramps in the legs at night are also known as night cramps or leg cramps . Night cramps is neither a serious condition, nor is it an uncommon ailment. In order to understand its causes, effects and remedy, let us first understand what cramps are. Cramps are generally referred to as muscle cramps; this is because they are associated with a tingling feeling in the muscles of the legs, hands or feet. Muscle cramps are caused due to sudden contractions of the muscles, leading to a pulling sensation in the leg. While this is not a serious condition, it can be very painful and annoying. There are no specific causes for the occurrence of night cramps; however, it is a well known fact that cramps are caused due to dehydration, lack of vital minerals in the body and from maintaining an uncomfortable posture for a long period of time. Water is one of the most essential components of the body. The body requires an adequate amount of water for its functioning. If the body does not get this required supply of water, it reduces the supply of water to most parts of the body. The shortage of water leads to muscle contraction, especially in over worked parts of the body. Another reason for this condition is that with age the body loses a substantial amount of vital minerals. The absence or lower levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium in the body may also lead to sever muscle cramping. The simple action of maintaining an uncomfortable posture for a prolonged period of time can also make a person experience cramping. For example, try sleeping with your hand folded under your back for five minutes, you will notice a tingling sensation followed by cramps in that particular arm. When a particular part of the body is subjected to an uncomfortable position for a prolonged period of time, the body is unable to supply that part with blood. The absence or reduced supply of blood triggers muscle contractions in that area, thus leading to muscle cramps. Coming to your question on whether drinking wine daily can cause night cramps? The answer is both yes and no, depending on the amount of wine consumed by your mother in law. If she drinks half a glass of wine per day, then she is most probably experiencing this condition due to dehydration, lack of mineral content in her body or due to a bad sleeping posture. However, if she consumes more than one glass of wine per day, then she could experience night cramps as a result of drinking too much wine. Wine like other alcohol causes dehydration when consumed in excess, thus leading to a cramping sensation. You can ask your mother in law to follow these simple suggestions in order to alleviate this condition. Drinking a minimum of 3 liters of water a day will ensure that she avoids this painful condition. Stretching the muscles before sleeping will also provide your mother in law with considerable amount of relief from night cramps. Yoga would be the most effective way of ensuring this. Make sure that your mother in law fulfills her daily requirement of calcium, potassium and magnesium, which can be found abundantly in fresh vegetables and fruits. Lastly providing your mother in law with a water bed will make a world of a difference to her, as she experiences night cramps on a daily basis. A water bed makes sure that the blood flow remains constant. This is because the water moves beneath the body, simulating blood circulation. answered by c on  6 Jan 2010,  3:59:26 Read more questions in Health Advice Related Topics Home Remedies Leg Cramps Muscle Cramps Diagnosis Leg cramps are an involuntary contraction of a single muscle or a group of muscles in the leg.   These are usually painful and extremely... Painful Menstrual Cramps | Menstrual Cramps Remedies | Relieve Menstrual Cramps Menstrual cramps, also medically known as dysmenorrhea, can be described as a dull and throbbing pain, experienced by women, in the lower abdominal... Leg Cramps Vitamin Deficiency Read Diet Leg Cramps Because of Vitamin DeficiencyLeg cramp is a short, involuntary contraction of a leg muscle. Everyone experiences leg cramps or muscle... Pregnancy Sleeplessness | Tips Sleeping Pregnant Women During pregnancy, the expectant mother’s sleep is not as sound as she would like it to be. In the first trimester, a woman sleeps more than... Yoga Women's Issues | Women Fitness Yoga Explain the Symptoms of PMS, Cramps, MenopausePMS, menstrual cramps and menopause are some of the specific health conditions experienced by all... Related Questions Night Leg Cramps Cause Treatment Muscle Cramps Legs Night leg cramps in most cases are a common and harmless condition. Unfortunately night leg cramps could be extremely painful and difficult to pu Cramps Leg Neck Feet You should be drinking 8 glasses of water each day, drink a glass of cold water  before you go to bed each night and also take a double dose... leg cramps | leg cramps Treatment for leg cramps-  1. Dip your legs in a bucket of hot water; let the water level remain just above your ankles. After ke Leg Cramps Vitamins | Leg Cramps | Remedies Leg Cramps Leg cramps are caused when a muscle or a group of muscles in the legs contracts involuntarily. These cramps can be extremely discomforting and pa Alternative diet leg cramps | leg cramps Diet and cure for leg cramps -  Tell your daughter to take 2 glasses of water every hour without fail.Tell her to h Log In Here Close User name * (User name is your email address) Password * Sign-up Forgot Your Password ? Related Blogs Leg Cramps Bed | Causes Foot Cramps | Prevent Leg Cramps Leg Hand Cramps Leg Cramps Remedies Potassium Leg Cramps | Remedies Relief Leg Cramps Pregnancy Leg Cramps Top Searched Keywords herbal treatment for liver disease thin nails rectal poison sumac overian cyst eye injuries gallstone travel sickness natural remedies for uti in humans Preconception Health, Diet | Pregnancy Preconception | Preconception Planning, Tips - Mar, 2010 25 Natural Remedies for Dry Skin - Jun, 2009 Managing Your Stress And Anxiety Levels During An Economic Downturn - May, 2009 51 Health And Beauty Tips - Mar, 2009 Send us your questions Type Your Question (We do not sell your email address) Abrasions Acne Acne Scars Alcoholism Allergies Alzheimer Amnesia Anaemia Angina Anorexia Anxiety Appendicitis Arteriosclerosis Arthritis Asthma Athletes foot Autoimmune Diseases Back Pain Backache Bacterial Vaginitis Bed Sores Bedwetting Belching Blemishes Bloating Blocked Milk Duct Body odor Body Rash Boils Bone Spur Breast Care Bronchitis Bruises Burning tongue Burns Bursitis Canker Sores Carpal tunnel syndrome Cataract Celiac Disease Chafing Chest Congestion Chicken Pox Chlamydia Cholera Cirrhosis of the Liver Cold Sores Colitis Common Cold Common Digestive Disorders Common Fever Congestion Conjunctivitis Constipation Corns Coronary Heart Disease Cough Cracked Heels Cracked, chapped and dry lips Cystitis Dandruff Dark Circles Dark Skin Dark underarms Defective Vision Depression Diabetes Mellitus Diaper Rash Diarrhoea Digestive Disorder Dizziness Dry Skin Ear Infection Earache Eating Disorders Eczema Edema Endometriosis Enema ENT Disorder Eye Infection Female Sterility Fever Flatulence Freckles Frequent Urination Fungal Infections Gall Bladder Disorders Gastritis Genital warts GERD Gingivitis Goitre Gout Gray Hair Halitosis Hangover Hay Fever Head Congestion Head Lice Headaches Heat Stroke Hemorrhoids Herpes Hiccups High Blood Cholesterol High Blood Pressure Hives Hyperacidity and Heartburn Hyperthyroidism Hysteria Indigestion Influenza Insomnia Interstitial Cystitis Intestinal Worms Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Itching Jaundice Jock Itch Kidney Stones Knee Pain Laryngitis Leg Cramps Lethargy Leucoderma Leucorrhoea Lice Treatment Liver Disease Loss of Hair Low blood pressure Low Blood Sugar Low Immunity Lyme Disease Malaria Mastitis Measles Menopausal Disorders Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Problems Migraine Moles Mononucleosis Morning Sickness Mumps Nasal Congestion Nausea Nephritis Neuritis Nosebleeds Obesity Oral Candidiasis Orchitis Osteoporosis Palpitation Peeling Skin Peptic Ulcer Phlegm Piles Pimples Plantar Fascia or Plantar Fasciitis Pneumonia Poison Ivy Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Premature Ejaculation Premature Greying of Hair Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) Prostate Disorders Psoriasis Pyorrhoea Razor Burns Respiratory Diseases Retain teeth and lip color Rheumatism Ringworm Scabies Schizophrenia Scurvy Sexual Disorders Sexual Impotence Shoulder Pain Sinusitis Skin Blemishes Skin Disease Sleep Apnea Sleeping Disorders Snoring Sore Nipples Sore Throat Spring Ailments Stress Stretch Marks Sunburn Sweating Disorder Swimmers Ear Tennis Elbow Thinning Hair Throat Obstruction Thyroid Tinea Versicolor Tinnitus Toe Nail Fungus Tonsillitis Toothache Tuberculosis Underweight Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Urticaria Vaginal Infections Varicose Veins Vertigo Vitiligo Vomiting Warts Wheezing Whooping Cough Winter Ailments Womens Health Issues Wrinkles Yeast Infection Zits English | Spanish Sitemap Terms and Conditions for Usage of this Site www.home-remedies-for-you.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information. Copyrights© 2011. Home-Remedies-for-You.com Sign up Bookmark us Subscribe newsletter Home Remedies | Articles | Specialists | Ask a Question | Blog | M