Content-Length: 86398
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 21:59:24 GMT
X-Varnish: 719046440
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
X-Cache: MISS

what kind of manuka honey should I put on an infected wound? Main Ask Sign Up Explore You aren't signed in Sign In Report Abuse We're listening to you! Please let us know if someone is violating the AOL Answers terms of use or offending you in any other way, so together we can make AOL Answers a vibrant and friendly community. Report Type Please tell us what you want to report SPAM/ Commercial content I'm offended by this person This person is trying to use my Yedda identity Report Details Tell your full story here... AAA Posted 5 hours ago what kind of manuka honey should I put on an infected wound? Answer this question Related Answers Explore the latest questions and answers related to " what kind of manuka honey should I put on an infected wound? " Answered: Where to buy manuka honey manuka online   Active Manuka Honey, UMF 20+ or MGO 400+ can be purchased at manukaonline.com   Free shipping: http://www.manukaonline.com/online-store-manuka-honey-benefits.html Posted by manuka online 1 year ago Answered: Are you a fan of the honey badger? I don't know about a fan, but I do rather like badgers in general. Posted by Bonestructure 8 months ago Answered: Comparing honeys Manuka honey is different from ordinary honey.   Manuka honey comes from the nectar collected by honey bees from the Manuka tree which is a close relative of tea tree plants which has extra special qualities for healing.   It has special ingredients effective in healing wounds.   It also assists in ... Posted by Arpita Barua 2 years ago Answered: Comparing honeys Manuka Honey, particularly Active Manuka Honey, has more powerful antibacterial and healing effect because of a property known as UMF (Unique Manuka Factor).  Check out this link for more details on the benefits of Manuka Honey:  http://www.honey-for-health.com/manuka-honey-benefits.html Posted by Fina 2 years ago 1 Comment Last Comment by John Tohill 2 years ago Answered: If someone gets frequent yeast infections is there ... here are your solutions:  http://www.women-health-info.com/59-Yeast-infection.html Posted by Dr.Doly 10 months ago Answered: What could be the cause of frequent yeast infections? What is the best you can see all possible causes of frequent yeast infection and effective treatment possibilities in:  http://www.women-health-info.com/59-Yeast-infection.html  http://www.women-health-info.com/111-Yeast-infection-natural-remedies.html Posted by Dr.Doly 9 months ago 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next Liked this question? Tell your friends about it Facebook Windows Live Yahoo Twitter Digg Google del.icio.us Reddit Link Embed Copy and paste the text above to share this  Q&A Featured Questions In Money & Finance Rising Economy: Who's to Credit? In Europe Winter in Europe, Skipped the US? In Sports Which 2012 Superbowl Ads Did You Like? Be The First To Answer Other people asked questions on various topics, and are still waiting for answer. Would be great if you can take a sec and answer them Q: what state was Barbara Forrest born? Q: how long will the  light rail in ridgefield nj take to come? Q: how to drop app on ipad? Q: how often does a business have to pay unemployment insurance on wages,KY? Q: how long should i train on an elliptical for skiing? More More Questions Honey Hot tea and honey are good together.  Honey has a lot of benefits and is used a variety of ways.     Source:  www.natural-goat-milk-soap.com/benefits-of-honey.html What is the difference between raw honey and normal honey? Here: Raw Honey How is raw honey different to normal honey? Raw honey is unfiltered, unlike commercial honey.  Raw honey contains the most nutritional value compared to commercial honey.  Commercial honey is heated and filtered stripping away vitamins and minerals.  Its natural enzymes are partially destroyed in the filtering process.     Source:  www ... Reoccuring feline  bladder infections led to chronic renal failure? Sorry...earthclinic.com..also, people mentioned using yogurt. All Categories Arts & Humanities Autos & Transportation Beauty & Style Computers & Internet Education & Reference Entertainment & Music Environment Family & Relationships Food & Drink Games & Recreation Health Home & Garden Money & Finance News & Events Pets Politics & Government Pregnancy & Parenting Religion & Spirituality Science & Mathematics Social Science Society & Culture Sports Tech & Gadgets Travel Quick Links Ask Answer Explore Search People Recent Answers Help Featured Questions Coming Soon: Atheist Church? Is nuclear power safe? Are Maple Trees Going Extinct? Are you an Elton John fan? Do you enjoy going to Shakespeare's plays? Who is your favorite artist? Do you choose books off the best sellers list? The return of the "Sweet Valley" girls? Do you take your children to art galleries? What books are you reading during the summer? Popular Categories Arts & Humanities Education & Reference Environment Food & Drink Health Money & Finance Pregnancy & Parenting Sports Tech & Gadgets Travel Helpful People bush_destroyedgop OronD AKA fighter KB2Gyroplanes Oldphrt Jim logan GrammaSheila53 Cali boomertos4 Gary stressed About Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright 2012 Yedda Inc an AOL Company and respective copyright owners Member Since #since# Last 7 Days Activity All Time Acti