
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Expires: Sat, 05 May 2012 20:41:16 GMT
Date: Sat, 05 May 2012 20:41:16 GMT
Cache-Control: private, max-age=0
Last-Modified: Sat, 05 May 2012 17:05:08 GMT
ETag: "bef51ef9-cd8a-4539-ac3a-9affd1abfece"
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Server: GSE

Accidentally Green: How to naturally soothe colds Accidentally Green Making healthy decisions that honor God and happen to help the environment Pages Home About Good news Support Advertising FAQ Friday, September 30, 2011 How to naturally soothe colds When you have a typical cold, one thing’s for sure: you feel pretty miserable. Because antibiotics do NOT help colds , you can skip asking your doctor for a prescription. Fortunately you can treat nagging cold symptoms in the comfort of your own home with plenty of do-it-yourself remedies: R&R If you or a loved one is sick, be sure to get plenty of rest and relaxation. While you’re resting, make sure you’re staying hydrated with plenty of fluids, too. (If your breastfed baby is sick, make sure he or she is getting plenty of breastmilk.) Moisturize Crank up a cool mist humidifier to moisturize the air, especially in you’re sleeping or resting in your bedroom. Sweetness! Stock up on honey , because it’s helpful. When you can tell you’re at the beginning stages of a cold or flu, swallow a spoonful of honey to a couple times a day fight the germs. For an even more effective remedy, mix ground cinnamon with the spoonful of honey. I’ve been trying this along with Big Brother and Little Sister this fall. It’s a delicious remedy, and a spoonful really is all we’ve needed. In the September issue of Parenting magazine , Dr. Alan Greene recommends using honey instead of dextromethorphan (the cough suppressant found in “DM” medications) to ease coughing. Greene writes, "The honey outperformed DM in every category, from reducing the number and severity of coughs, to improving sleep - for kids and parents." To soothe a sore throat, sip a hot beverage made with a mixture of honey, lemon juice and hot water. You can also try gargling with hot sage tea sweetened with honey. If you need to clear your sinuses and get over a cough, swallow one-fourth teaspoon of ground cinnamon mixed with one tablespoon of honey. Try this remedy for three days for an improvement. Remember, never give honey to a child who’s younger than 12 months old. Burning the midnight oil Once you starting using oils like grapefruit oil and coconut oil to help combat illness, you can forget about needing to stay awake all night with aches and pains. Drink lots of fluids when you’re sick – try a mixture of two drops of grapefruit oil mixed in 8 ounces of water. This refreshing drink will help stimulate your lymphatic system. Try massaging grapefruit oil on your lymph nodes when you notice you’re getting sick. Add a few drops of grapefruit oil to the water in a cool air humidifier – not only can this boost your immune system, but it will also kill germs in the air. Soothe your aches and pains by soaking in a warm bath of water, a few drops of grapefruit oil, and a few drops of coconut oil. You can also stock up on essential oils - clove oil, lemon oil, cinnamon oil, rosemary oil, eucalyptus oil and jojoba oil - and make Thieves' Oil. (Learn how by clicking here .) You can use the homemade concoction as a sort of vapor chest rub to prevent sickness, or to clean the air in your home with it. It’s in the ginger Ginger is a perfect remedy for the stomach flu because it is known to help the digestive tract. (Have you ever noticed how a sip of ginger ale can calm your queasy stomach?) You can also try cooking with ginger to help treat your cold. Photo credit Arvind Balaraman Posted by Hilary Kimes Bernstein at 4:00 AM Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Labels: Adults , Babies , Children , Frugal living , Medical , Recipes , Solutions 4
comments: D. Koeth Sep 30, 2011 05:22 AM Hilary, do you know if it matters whether the honey is raw (only filtered before bottling), or if any grocery store honey will do (heated before bottling)? I recently switched to raw, and it is much cheaper to find a local beekeeper than it is to buy raw honey from a health food store. I've also heard local honey can help with allergies in that particular area. Reply Delete City Lover-Country Dreamer Sep 30, 2011 07:58 AM My oldest son suffers from a sensitive cough reflex and allergy induced asthma. The best way we have found to ease his coughing is a big spoonful of warm honey. For me, the NetiPot is my first defense against congestion and allergies. Reply Delete Bethany S. Sep 30, 2011 08:14 AM I was always told NOT to use a humidifier, especially if you have allergies or asthma.  Humidifiers can actually make you sick if they aren't maintained properly or if humidity levels stay too high. They can breed mold or bacteria that can make you sicker! Reply Delete Hilary Sep 30, 2011 12:28 PM Denise - I'm not sure about the raw honey vs. store honey. I've been using raw honey ... like you, I like the price difference. I like supporting local beekeepers, too. And, you're absolutely right about the local honey helping with allergies. Bethany - You are right about properly maintaining a humidifier! That is EXTREMELY important. As long as you change the water daily (and use distilled water instead of tap) and clean the entire machine every two to three days, they stay clean. (Then again, I can't vouch if they help with allergies or asthma ... you could try a NetiPot like Sara suggested.) Reply Delete Add comment Load more... Newer Post Older Post Home Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom) Support Accidentally Green Please help by shopping here: Loading... Welcome! I'm so glad you're here. If you're searching for ways to live a healthier life that honors God, yet you're not incredibly environmentally conscious, then you're in the right place. While I try to glorify God and create a healthy home for my family, most of my choices just tend to be green ... quite accidentally.  - Hilary Contact me Have any questions or comments? I'd love to hear from you. Please e-mail me, Hilary Kimes Bernstein, at accidentallygreen@gmail.com . Get new posts e-mailed to you! Subscribe Posts Atom Posts Comments Atom Comments Categories Adults Babies Children Christian perspective Cleaning Cosmetics Fan Feature Fitness Food Frugal living Giveaways Guest posts Happy Weekend Holidays Home In the news Medical Men Personal stories Pregnancy Problems Recipes Solutions Thought You'd Like to Know ... Toxins Vaccines Women Popular Posts Think twice before consuming calcium chloride or calcium disodium EDTA If you look at the ingredient lists in many of your foods, chances are you’ll notice calcium chloride and calcium disodium EDTA. Calcium’... Natural ways to repel mosquitoes Every summer, mosquitoes drive me inside more than anything else. Even if I’ve been having a great time outside all day long, as soon a... My love/hate relationship with castile soap If you mention “ castile soap ” in green circles, you’ll probably hear overwhelmingly positive feedback. You can use it to clean everyt... Natural ways to get rid of gnasty gnats There aren’t many things that are more annoying than gnats buzzing in your kitchen. Even as a neat freak, I’ve endured my share of summers ... Did you know oatmeal could be used for ... As part of July's  101 Amazing Uses for All-Natural Products , here are two amazing uses for oatmeal.  19. Soothing baths? If you’re itching... Did you know baking soda could be used for ... As part of July's  101 Amazing Uses for All-Natural Products , here are six amazing uses for baking soda.   1. Itchy or ouchy skin? It does... I may be green, but I’m not THAT green: No disposable feminine hygiene products? As a reminder, we're in the middle of the series, "I may be green, but I'm not THAT green."  I don’t believe my family or your family should... Two ingredients make sunscreens dangerous Yesterday  I explained what sunscreen does and doesn’t do – including the fact that it doesn’t prevent skin cancer. Sadly, most sunscreens i... My family's diapering decisions Long before I was pregnant I knew I’d use cloth diapers, mainly because I didn’t feel right about putting a literal ton of my child’s... How I unknowingly gave Oxycodone to my newborn Would any mother knowingly give Oxycodone to her newborn baby?  Hopefully the answer is a resounding no. I surely never thought such a thing... Recent Posts Archives May (5) April (26) March (27) February (27) January (30) December (19) November (20) October (17) September (20) August (19) July (26) June (23) May (25) April (23) March (31) February (20) January (16) Amazon.com Widgets BlogCatalog Google Analytics Web Toolbar by Wibiya Copyright 2011 Acc