
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 01:45:08 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.naturalcuresecrets.net/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

The Origins of Acupuncture and Advantages To Good Health and wellness | Natural Cure Secrets Friday, March 2, 2012 News Feed Comments Natural Cure Secrets The Blog They Don’t Want You to Know About Home Learning Center High Cholesterol Erectile Dysfunction Diabetes High Blood Pressure / Hypertension Prostate Health Site Map Privacy Policy Terms of Use Contact ADD / ADHD Anti-Aging Arthritis Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cholesterol Diabetes Erectile Dysfunction Featured Fertility Female Fertility Male Fertility General Health Gout Hemorrhoids High Blood Pressure Hypothyroidism IBS Insomnia Latest News Mens Health Erectile Dysfunction Male Fertility Prostate Health Weight Loss Pain Relief Prostate Health Skin Disorders Acne Bruising Eczema Psoriasis Stretch Marks Wrinkles Weight Loss Womens Health Cosmetic Surgery Alternatives Natural Breast Enhancement Female Fertility Female Vitality Stretch Marks You are here: Home / General Health / The Origins of Acupuncture and Advantages To Good Health and wellness The Origins of Acupuncture and Advantages To Good Health and wellness (No Ratings Yet) Loading ... Filed under General Health Leave a Comment Perhaps several dozen centuries ago, acupuncture was created and enhanced in China. Acupuncture was found for the first time in Europe merely a few 100’s of years in recent history. It took until around the twenty first century before acupuncture received popular appeal in the US and various other countries. Along with this recognition, the medical and professional group has been engaged in research on many aspects of acupuncture. In the US, it is common to see certified acupuncture providers, as well as educated Chinese doctors of traditional Chinese medicine presenting their services. The tool of the this method are very thin small needles that are positioned not very far into the skin. Acupuncture medical books and theory reveals a number of conditions along with diseases that respond to this treatment. However, it is still highly recommended that you chat with your family doctor prior to receiving acupuncture. If you are serious to see a trained and certified acupuncturist, then that can be something to talk about with your physician. Of course along with all the other information and understanding, where the needles are required are all in accordance with the primary principle. We have come to understand that lines in the body, known as meridians, are where the needles are introduced. Meridians are located all over the body, and the number of them is conceivably several hundred. Meridians are the energetic paths that are crucial for life and health, and energy needs to flow unimpeded. Just where the needles are placed are determined by the particular reason, or medical condition, for which a particular person seeks treatment. A situation with health evolves when this flowing energy experiences greater difficulty along the meridian path. The activity of the acupuncture needles is to clean the impediment to energy flow and restore a healthy body. However, this procedure is beneficial for other purposes like decreasing pain. In fact, you can find a great deal of people who often receive this treatment for pain relief. If a person can feel pain relief this way, then there is certainly no need to take pain relievers prescribed by medical doctors. All of the numerous conditions and situations for which acupuncture may be helpful, or effective, have not been extensively studied. Just several areas including relief from the signs of stress such as tension headaches. Additionally those who experience migraine headaches report good levels of results with acupuncture. Additional benefits include being a safe option, but it is very important you consult your doctor and seek a trained and licensed acupuncture therapist. This alternative method has very few unwanted effects, and that is something you would need to discuss with a qualified professional for your problem. Another reason some people utilize this approach is in special circumstances when other methods of treating pain are not helpful. Tweet This! Share this on Facebook Digg this! Add this to Google Bookmarks Subscribe to the comments for this post? Share this on del.icio.us Share this on Technorati Post this to MySpace Share this on Linkedin Email this to a friend? Seed this on Newsvine Tags: Comments are closed. Category Cloud Acne (9) ADD / ADHD (1) Anti-Aging (2) Arthritis (8) Bruising (2) Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (3) Cholesterol (4) Cosmetic Surgery Alternatives (1) Diabetes (7) Eczema (3) Erectile Dysfunction (11) Erectile Dysfunction (11) Featured (3) Female Fertility (1) Female Fertility (1) Female Vitality (1) Fertility (2) General Health (1335) Gout (3) Hemorrhoids (2) High Blood Pressure (2) Hypothyroidism (3) IBS (4) Insomnia (1) Latest News (2) Male Fertility (1) Male Fertility (1) Mens Health (17) Natural Breast Enhancement (1) Pain Relief (3) Prostate Health (3) Prostate Health (4) Psoriasis (1) Skin Disorders (15) Stretch Marks (2) Stretch Marks (2) Weight Loss (5) Weight Loss (1) Womens Health (7) Wrinkles (2) WP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck and Luke Morton requires Flash Player 9 or better. Please Visit Our Sponsors Weight Loss Links Scarsdale Medical Diet Stay Fit With Keep-Slim Program Food Lovers Fat Loss Scarsdale Diet Menu Online Workout Videos Stay Fit With Keep-Slim Program Categories ADD / ADHD Anti-Aging Arthritis Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cholesterol Diabetes Erectile Dysfunction Featured Fertility Female Fertility Male Fertility General Health Gout Hemorrhoids High Blood Pressure Hypothyroidism IBS Insomnia Latest News Mens Health Erectile Dysfunction Male Fertility Prostate Health Weight Loss Pain Relief Prostate Health Skin Disorders Acne Bruising Eczema Psoriasis Stretch Marks Wrinkles Weight Loss Womens Health Cosmetic Surgery Alternatives Female Fertility Female Vitality Stretch Marks Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2009 October 2009 December 2008 January 2008 April 2007 March 2007 February 2007 January 2007 December 2006 November 2006 Copyright © 2012 NaturalCureSecrets.net · All Rights Reserved · Powered by WordPress · FTC