<0.05 for blacks versus whites in both years). The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality conducted the Medical Expenditure Panel Surveys, with nearly 19,000 respondents in 1996 and about 28,500 in 2005. In each survey year, an adult household member was questioned three times about healthcare utilization as well as health status, demographic, and socioeconomic information. Participants were asked to record health-related information in a diary that was reviewed at subsequent visits. Their medical providers were also contacted, with participants' consent, to supplement the participant self-reports. The survey included questions about prescribed medications, including drug names and patterns of use. Medication data were also obtained from participants' pharmacies. Psychotropic medications were classed as antidepressants, anxiolytics, mood stabilizers, stimulants, or antipsychotics. Antidepressants were further categorized as SSRIs, "other newer antidepressants" (including such drugs as venlafaxine, duloxetine, and bupropion), and tricyclics and other older antidepressants. Except for African-Americans, all categories of patients showed similar strong increases in antidepressant use during the study period. No major differences in the rates of increase were found when the researchers looked at employment status, income level, educational attainment, insurance status, marital status, age, or sex. Olfson and Marcus also found that antidepressant use increased substantially among patients with other diagnoses besides depression (expressed as percentages of patients treated with antidepressants):  Anxiety: 49.27% in 1996, 66.03% in 2005, adjusted rate ratio 1.34 (95% CI 1.14 to 1.58) Adjustment disorder: 22.26% in 1996, 39.37% in 2005, ARR 1.92 (95% CI 1.26 to 2.95) Back pain: 14.15% in 1996, 22.90% in 2005, ARR 1.54 (95% CI 1.27 to 1.87) Neuropathy: 18.56% in 1996, 30.99% in 2005, ARR 1.44 (95% CI 1.02 to 2.03) However, these were not necessarily the diagnoses for which antidepressants were prescribed, the researchers said. The survey data did not themselves provide explanations for the increase in antidepressant use, but the researchers suggested several possibilities:  Publication of guidelines supporting antidepressant use for anxiety and other disorders as well as depression Increased direct-to-consumer advertising for antidepressants  --  ad expenditures rose from $32 million in 1996 to $122 million in 2005 Less stigma attached to psychiatric disorders and treatment Increased prevalence of major depression The researchers said the decline in psychotherapy may have been driven by economics, including higher out-of-pocket costs to patients and low third-party reimbursements to providers. "It is also possible that changes in patient perceptions of the effectiveness of antidepressants may have been a factor," they added. The growing racial disparity in antidepressant use rates may reflect perceptions and attitudes toward depression treatment among African-Americans, Olfson and Marcus said. "African-Americans may be less predisposed than Hispanics or non-Hispanic whites to use antidepressants," they wrote, citing an earlier study in which blacks "reported a stronger preference for counseling over medication" compared with white and Hispanic patients. "Much remains to be learned about the roles of culturally mediated beliefs, attitudes, and social norms and physician factors in shaping racial/ethnic trends in antidepressant use," the researchers said. In discussing limitations to the study, they noted that the survey may have failed to elicit full and accurate information on all members of respondent households and did not include several important categories of people, such as the homeless and institutionalized. The study was funded by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and by the National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression. During the last five years, Dr Olfson reported research support from the National Institutes of Health, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, the National Association for Research on Schizophrenia and Affective Disorders, the New York State Office of Mental Health, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, and Ortho-McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs, and has worked as a consultant for AstraZeneca and Ortho-McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs. Dr Marcus reported research support during the last five years from the NIH, the National Patent Safety Foundation, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, AstraZeneca, and Ortho-McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs. Primary source: Archives of General Psychiatry
	      		
	      	 		Source reference:
	      	 									
							Olfson M, et al "National patterns in antidepressant medication treatment" Arch Gen Psych 2009; 66: 848-56. Links Home Sitemap Recent Posts ASBMR: Bone Drug Raises Quality of Life ENDO: GH Therapy Adds Inches in Noonan Syndrome ENDO: Tg Level Predicts Thyroid CA Recurrence ENDO: Costs High for Precocious Puberty Vitamin D Deficit Common Among Southern Teens LWPES: Anastrozole Therapy No Problem for Boys' Bones AACE: Adding an Endocrinologist to Surgical Team Cuts Costs Questioning the Metabolic Syndrome ACC: ACCORD May Bring Few Changes to Clinic ACC: Triglycerides Decreased with Rosuvastatin Therapy ACC: NAVIGATOR Confirms Diet