Vary: Accept-Encoding

Aloe Vera plant | Health benefits of aloe vera HOME MEDICINAL PLANTS BEAUTY DIETS FRUITS and VEGETABLES LINKS Aloe Vera health benefits Also called "the elixir of youth" by the Russians, "the herb of immortality" by the old Egyptians or the "harmonious remedy" by the Chinese, Aloe vera is without a doubt the medicinal herb most widely known for its noticeable impacts on health and at the same time the ingredient most widely used in the cosmetic industry. Not one study conducted so far was fully able to explain the wonders which lie within this herb and how its compounds work together in a miraculous way to bring about the treatment or the alleviation of some of the most serious illnesses like cancer or AIDS. Description Aloe vera or "Aloe Barbadensis" is a plant which originated in North Africa and spread to the fertile lands with mild climate. Its physical aspect is similar to that of the cactus; the thick rind hides a succulent core formed mostly of water. The aforementioned herb gained worldwide recognition and has been intensively used from the oldest of times due to its extraordinary features. A clear proof of this fact is a clay plank found in the antic city of Nippur, Babilon (the Irak from today) dating from year 2200 b.c. From Greek physicians like Celsius and Dioscorides to Romanians (Pylni the Great) and Arabs (Al-Kindi) to C.E. Collins, the one who published the first modern medical thesis in United States (1934), "aloe vera" has always been an issue with a long history behind it. Just about every important civilization used it for its benefical effects over health and beauty. Egyptians would mix aloe with other herbs while preparing remedies for internal and external anomalies. After the Second World War, aloe vera was introduced in treating the victims of the catastrophies from Nagasaki and Hiroshima because of its ability of mitigating the pain of the patients and renewing skin tissues. Proprieties of aloe vera The most oftenly used substance from this herb is the aloe gel, a thick viscid liquid found in the interior of the leaves. The leaves are used in the treatment of burns and the aloine - a bitter milky yellowish liquid is used as a laxative. The herb contains: 20 minerals (Calcium, Magnesium, Zinc, Chromium , Selenium), 12 vitamins (A, B, C, E, folic acid), 20 aminoacids from the 22 which are necessary to the human body, over 200 active components including enzymes and polysaccharides. All the active substances enumerated before contribute to the therapeutical value of the herb. We shall move on to presenting the main effects that the herb has over the human body: it toughens up the immune system owing to the 23 peptides contained by the aloe vera, it accelerates and regulates the methabolism, purifies the human body from toxins, bringing about a feeling of calm. Moreover, aloe vera has an antiseptic effect (by distroying the bacterias, viruses and fungi),  disinfectant capabilities and can also stimulate the cell-renewing process. Aloe vera nourishes and supports the digesting of aliments. Cutting across the human organism, aloe vera manages to bring the human body to a general balanced state. Treatments Aloe vera has proved its efficiency from the simplest allergies to the treatment of wounds and skin infections and even to its usage in alleviating more serious afflictions. With the help of this herb a wide variety of internal and external afflictions are controlled, like: asthma, virosis, arthritis, arthrosis, gingivitis, bronchitis, pharyngitis, intestinal inflamations, constipations, obesity, sprains, muscle strains, cutaneous inflamations. The efficiency of the herb was also proven in the cases of anemia, deficiency illnesses, insomnia and depressions and the B-sisterole from the Aloe vera brings about the lowering of the cholesterol level. Also, this herb is used for controlling the side effects of chemotherapy and radiation therapy, diabetes, hepatitis and pancreatitis and multiple sclerosis. Mixtures A wide array of products with curative and therapeutic effects is obtained from aloe vera. This herb is one of the main attractions of the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries and also the most widely used ingredient - starting from vitamins and laxatives to face creams and body care lotions. Aloe vera gel contains B-sisterole, powerful anti-inflammatory and anti-cholesterol formulas and lupeol - a strong antiseptic tranquilizer.  The aloe-based lotions and gels are used as protections against the powerful sunlight and as a remedy against sunburns. Ointments having aloe as a main ingredient moist the skin and protect it against bug stings and scratches. Furthermore, the aloe-based ointment is efficient in treating acne. Owing to its proprieties, Aloe vera was incorporated in the composition of deodorants. What should be noted is the fact that this herb can be also administrated internally due to its high nourishing influence. When mixed with other fruits, aloe vera can be ingested as an excellent natural beverage rich in vitamins and minerals. Also, it is recommended that it is ingested during travels to prevent dehydration. Cultivation of aloe vera Because it is not a pretentious herb, aloe vera can be easily tended for. This herb requires a great amount of light (even if it is artificial - 16 hours a day) and a little bit of water (especially in the cold season). Other medicinal plants Alkanet Aloe Vera plant Anise Apple Arnica Artichoke Asparagus Banana Barberry Barley Bark Bastard Balm Basil Bean Bilberry Bush Bindweed Birch Tree Birthwort Black Currant Black Mulberry Black Locust Brier Brooklime Buckthorn Buckwheat Burdock Butterbur Caraway Castor Oil Celandine Celery Chamomile Chervil Chicory Cider Clover Clubmoss Cocklebur Common Hazel Coneflower Coriander Cornel Tree Cornflower Cowslip Dandelion Danewort Durmast Elecampane Elder Endives European_Silver_Fir Fennel Fern Figwort Garlic Garden Angelica Gentian Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Hemp Agrimony Hornbeam Horseradish Horsetail Hot Pepper Iris Jasmine Lady's Mantle Laurel Lavender Linden Tree Lemon Pansy Pot Marigold Marijuana Marjoram Marsh Mallow Meadow Sage MeadowSweet Milfoil Milk thistle Milkwort Mint Mistletoe Mullein Mustard Nettle Oat Onion Parsley Parsnip Patience Dock Peach Pepper Privet Pumpkin Rattle Redcurrant Red Poppy Roadweed Rockcap Fern Rosemary Rye Saltcedar Savory Sea Buckthorn Sesame Shepherd's Purse Silverweed Small daisies Spinach Soy Tansy Thyme Thorn apple Underbrush Wheat Wild Strawberry White Lily Wood Avens Wood spurge Wormwood Medicinal plants Learn all about medicinal plants .Find out the therapeutical properties of medicinal plants. Fruits and Vegetables list Find out more about fruits and vegetables. Green Beans Onion Pea Green Been Cherries Edible chestnuts Cucumber Mushrooms Cabbage Lettuce Tomato Pumpkin MOST READED ARTICLES How to lose 3 - 6 kilos (6 - 13 pounds) in 10 days How to increase the size of your breasts naturally Treatments against dark rings Taking Care of the Eyes Woman's alimentation during pregnancy and nursing Glucose Lipids Drop 9 kilograms (18-20 pounds) quickly MEDICINAL PLANTS Aloe Vera Also called "the elixir of youth" by the Russians, "the herb of immortality" by the old Egyptians or the "harmonious remedy" by the Chinese, Aloe vera.. Read more .. MEDICINAL PLANTS Nettle tea It can be said about nettle that it is one of the wonder-plants that nature has gifted us with. It is renowned because of its astringent... Read more MEDICINAL PLANTS Ginseng There is no reason to change your sexual life during pregnancy, unless your doctor advises you to ... Read more MEDICINAL PLANTS Fennel seeds Fennel is a herb native to the Mediterranean region which gained popularity ever since the Middle Ages when it was cultivated near monasteries.. Read more .. Plants | Medicinal Plants | Diets | Beauty | F