
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 07 May 2012 15:42:38 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_fcgid/2.3.5
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: 
Cache-Control: private, no-cache
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Physiomoves - Services Physiomoves Home Blog Our Team Tyler Dumont Physiotherapist Johnny Yiu Physiotherapist Jody Wiebe Physiotherapist Tiphanie Ge Physiotherapist Christine (De Pape) Campbell Physiotherapist Jessica Deglau Physiotherapist Barry Bereziak Massage Therapist Services Acupuncture Bike Fitting Exercise Therapy Functional Movement Screen Modalities Lymphapress Manual Therapy Massage Therapy Taping Fees About Physiomoves in the Community Our Mission Our Background Why Choose Physiomoves? Links & Resources Contact Us Skip to content Services Exercise Therapy Return to Sport / Return to Work Preventative and rehabilitative individual exercise prescription and comprehensive patient education provided to help clients fully return to pre-injury sport and/or work level. Core Stabilization Core stabilization involves retraining of the deep muscles of the abdominal and low back region to help restore normal spine stability. Increased stability reduces shear forces on the spinal joints (decreases pain and premature wear and tear) and allows for more efficient transmission of forces through the spine (e.g. in sports, a stable spine allows for a faster throw in baseball or a harder kick in soccer). Basic and advanced core training can be done without any equipment. However, many exercise devices are available at Physiomoves to assist in core training (e.g. elastic bands, balance boards, exercise balls, medicine balls). Pre and Post-Surgical Rehabilitation Prior to surgery, some patients require strengthening or range of motion exercises to enhance their recovery after surgery. Our therapists are very familiar with post-surgical treatment protocols (e.g. rotator cuff repair, total knee replacement, total hip replacement, Achilles tendon repair) and can guide you toward optimal recovery. Osteoporosis & Arthritis Management Exercises are prescribed to help maintain joint range of motion and/or bone density, improve balance and prevent falls, increase muscle strength and maintain or improve posture. Pre and Post-Natal Rehabilitation Therapeutic exercises are prescribed to women preceding or following childbirth to help restore back and/or pelvis alignment, core strength, and function. A certified post-natal fitness instructor is also available for 1:1 personal training sessions. Manual Therapy Mobilization Joint mobilization is a "hands-on" technique that involves gentle, rhythmical gliding or traction to joints to help restore normal motion and reduce pain. Soft-tissue techniques Selected "hands-on" techniques are used by the physiotherapist to restore normal soft tissue (e.g. muscle, tendon, fascia, scar tissue) mobility and length. Bike Fitting Who can benefit from a bike fit? Anyone who has discomfort related to cycling (e.g. low back pain, knee pain, saddle or hand numbness during or after cycling, etc). Recreational and competitive cyclists that want to maximize their efficiency and comfort on the bike and to reduce the risk of developing overuse injuries. What does the bike fit include? A thorough history of current injuries, past injuries, training volume, and racing goals. A physical examination of leg length, limb alignment, overall mobility and flexibility, posture and any other biomechanical issues that are relevant to the bike fit. Observation and documentation of current riding position. Adjustments to the bike and cleats are made to optimize the fit (note: in some cases you will be advised to get different parts for the bike). Final bike position measurements are documented. Instruction is given on proper riding posture and technique. Specific therapeutic exercises are prescribed as needed.This assessment is useful for any athlete (competitive or recreational) that is interested in injury prevention and optimal movement efficiency. Do I need a doctor's referral? Some insurance plans require a doctor's referral for physiotherapy treatment. If so, you can obtain a referral from your family doctor, a walk-in clinic doctor, or a sports medicine physician. Is my bike fit covered by my insurance? Most extended health insurance plans cover physiotherapy services (a bike fitting includes the typical physiotherapy assessment of alignment, flexibility, posture and the prescription of therapeutic exercises). Consult your own plan for more information. How long will the bike fit session take to complete? Approximately 90 minutes to set up a single bike and a pair of cycling shoes with cleats. Approximately 45 minute to set up a pair of cycling shoes with cleats. What do I need to bring to my bike fit session? Your bike in clean, good working order (ensure none of the following parts are seized: seatpost, saddle, stem, and pedals). Your cycling footwear (ensure cleat screws are clean and not seized) Cycling shorts and jersey (or tight T-shirt). Cycling gloves (if used). Helmet (if having neck or upper back discomfort) Services Complete bike set-up (bike and cleats) Cleat set-up only Modalities Mechanical traction (decompression therapy) Physiomoves has a state-of-the-art Mechanical Traction table and system. Mechanical traction (also known as "decompression therapy") involves a sustained or intermittent distracting force to the patient's neck or lower back. This treatment is used to: 1) relieve neurological symptoms (e.g. pain, pins & needles) radiating to the arm or leg. 2) to relieve muscular pain in the neck or low back, 3) to help mobilize stiff joints in the neck or low back, and 4) to help relieve symptoms due to disc herniations. Electrotherapy (Laser, Ultrasound, HVG, TENS, neuromuscular electrical stimulation) These modalities may be used as part of your treatment to help stimulate tissue healing, reduce pain, reduce swelling, and restore normal muscle function. Acupuncture Acupuncture is an ancient form of Chinese medicine that involves the insertion of solid acupuncture needles into the skin at specific points in the body to achieve a therapeutic effect. It is safe and effective, and often a successful alternative to medications or even surgery. For more information, please visit the website www.afcinstitute.com .  To book an appointment using acupuncture treatment, please request Physiotherapists Tihpanie or Christine.  Physiomoves does not charge any additional cost for acupuncture! Lymphapress A lymphapress machine is used for the treatment of lymphedema, which is swelling that occurs when lymph fluid collects in areas of the body. This can lead to heaviness, pain, tightness, and risk of infection. It commonly occurs after damage or removal of lymph nodes, especially in individuals with node removal related to breast cancer. The Lymphapress is a pneumatic pump which uses sequential compression to reduce edema and swelling in the upper or lower extremity. The overall treatment approach combines the Lymphapress with exercise, soft tissue techniques (e.g. massage) and the wearing of compression garments. A doctor's referral is recommended prior to the start of treatment. Treatment of lymphedema is usually advised for 2-3 times per week for at least 4-6 weeks.  Physiomoves is one of the only Physiotherapy Clinics in the Lower Mainland that offers the lymphapress as part of the physical therapy treatment of lymphedema. Taping: Athletic and K-tape K-Tape is an elastic tape that is water resistant, breathable and can be worn up to 7 days. K-Tape has 2 effects: 1) it stimulates blood flow and lymph flow to aid in the healing process and 2) it stimulates skin receptors to reduce pain and help the body sense position and movement. K-Taping can be used in the treatment of a variety of conditions such as back pain, neck pain, shoulder pain, ligament sprains and muscle strains. Athletic taping may be used to provide pain-relief, support and compression for acute injuries (e.g. ankle sprain, tendon injury) or to provide support and sensory input for hypermobile joints (e.g. unstable ankle or knee).  Athletes may come to Physiomoves for taping of a joint(s) prior to a game or competition. Functional Movement Screen Heather, Jody, Johnny, and Tyler recently obtained their Functional Movement Screen (FMS) Certification and Selective Functional Movement Screen (SFMA) Certification. The FMS is an exciting new tool that documents movement patterns that are key to normal function. A score is generated which identifies the areas a person needs to target (e.g. stability or mobility of a particular region of their body). The FMS is used to identify people who are at risk of injury during physical training. Your therapist can prescribe a corrective exercise program to address your mobility and/or stability deficits. The FMS score also predicts an athlete's performance capability. This tool can be used prior to starting a training program or at the end of your rehabilitation to determine if all your movement patterns are correct. The SFMA is a more advanced screening tool that can only be used by healthcare practitioner such as physiotherapists. The SFMA pinpoints a client's primary dysfunction and is similar to an in-depth orthopaedic exam. Although the SFMA does not provide a score, it is very useful in determining what movement patterns need to be corrected and how to prescribe the most appropriate corrective exercises. Go to www.functionalmovement.com to learn more about the FMS and SFMA. Massage Therapy Massage Therapy provides assessment, treatment and prevention of soft tissue and joint disorders, dysfunction or injury using hands-on techniques to rehabilitate, relieve pain and promote health. Massage therapy is available with an experienced Registered Massage Therapist. Please call our office to book an appointment (604-575-7477). Contact Us Call: 604.575.7477 Address: 5620 152nd St., suite #220 Rodeo Square Building Surrey, BC V3S 3K2 (Hwy 10 & 152nd St. northeast corner) Latest News Read Our Blog for More Info Acupuncture Now Available Functional Movement Screen Now Available Lymphedema Treatment Available Find Us Latest News Read Our Blog for More Info Acupuncture Now Available Functional Movement Screen Now Available Lymphedema Treatment Available Contact Us Call us: 604.575.7477 Find us: #220, 5620 152nd St. Surrey, BC Located at Hwy 10 & 152nd St. (2nd Floor of Rodeo Square building) Find Us Search... Home Blog Our Team Services Fees About Contact Us Copyright © 2011 PhysioMoves . All Rights Reserved. 