Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
Set-Cookie: language=en-US; path=/; HttpOnly
Date: Sat, 05 May 2012 01:43:44 GMT
Connection: close

For Health Search Home About Burleson's Honey Company Profile Company Highlights Don Amusan Healthy Living Race for the Cure Texas Dietetic Association Meet Our Culinary Professionals Customer Comments Links For Kids Texas State Fair 2010 Honey Recipes Honey Facts and Figures Where Honey Comes From Storage and Handling Nutritional Information Code Dating Honey for Diabetics Tips for Baking and Cooking with Honey Healthy Facts Honey Versus Sugar Honey Lore Types of Honey Buzz About Bees Sweet as Honey Technical Guide to Honey Honey Filtration Facts Bee-mail E-magazine Press and Media Order Online Brokers Login Broker Registration Contact Us Wholesale - Bee2B Sore Throat Relief. Let a teaspoon of honey melt in the back of the mouth and trickle down the throat. Eases inflamed raw tissues. Wounds or Grazes. Cover wound with honey and a bandage. Excellent healer. For burns. Apply freely over burns. It cools, removes pain and aids fast healing without scarring. Apart from being a salve and antibiotic, bacteria cannot live in honey. Nasal Congestion. Place a dessert spoon of honey in a basin of hot water and inhale fumes after covering your head with a towel over the basin. Migraine. Use a dessertspoon of honey dissolved in half a glass of warm water. Sip at start of attack. If necessary repeat in 20 minutes. Tangy Honey-Barbecue Beef Steaks Print this Recipe 4 to 6 beef steaks (ribeye or top sirloin), cut 1 to 1-1/4 inches thick (6 to 8 ounces each) Tangy Barbecue Sauce: 1 cup catsup 1/3 cup balsamic vinegar or cider vinegar 1/3 cup Burleson's Pure Clover Honey 1/4 cup thinly sliced green onions 1/4 teaspoon salt 2 or 3 dashes bottled hot pepper sauce (or to taste) Preheat grill to medium. Grill steaks over medium heat until desired doneness, turning once halfway through grilling. (Allow 8 to 12 minutes for medium-rare and 12 to 15 minutes for medium.) Meanwhile, in small saucepan, heat sauce ingredients to boiling. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 10 to 15 minutes or until desired consistency, stirring often. Brush on steaks during last 3 minutes of grilling. Pass remaining sauce. Makes 4 to 6 servings. 