
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:54:09 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:54:09 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pelvic Tilts - Yoga Pelvic Tilts  for Posture Stabilization and Core Stabilization About.com Health Back & Neck Pain Back & Neck Pain Search Back & Neck Pain Symptoms-Conditions Treatment Manage Pain Share Free Back & Neck Pain Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Yoga for Back Pain - Pelvic Tilts By Anne Asher , About.com Guide Updated May 09, 2011 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: yoga for back pain pelvic tilts back exercises low back stretches core strength The Pelvic Tilt: The pelvic tilt is a classic therapeutic exercise used to strengthen abdominals , and stabilize posture by developing the core muscles of the body.  The pelvic tilt is a move that can be found in yoga , pilates , physical therapy and other exercise systems.  While there are variations on the pelvic tilt, the move is the same.  About's Yoga editor, Ann Pizer, has a simple description on how to do a pelvic tilt, complete with an animated illustration .  And here is my - non-yoga - version . The Pelvic Tilt in Rehabilitation: The pelvic tilt is often used in early stages of rehab, when it is appropriate that the patient begin exercising.  This is because it is a gentle way to: wake up the nerves in the core posture muscles that live in the pelvis begin to strengthen those muscles, which in turn stabilizes the low back stretch tight muscles around the hip, for example, the hamstrings, psoas and/or quadriceps. How the Pelvic Tilt Works to Stabilize Back Posture: The movement of the pelvic tilt travels back and forth from lordosis to a flat back.  By performing pelvic tilts, the pelvis and low back vertebrae can experience the full range of movement in the forward and back direction.  The muscle strength developed from doing pelvic tilts allows you to reach the end range of these low back postures.  This, in turn, develops the ability to maintain ideal low back posture, a position somewhere inbetween. Types of Back Problems Benefited by Pelvic Tilts: The pelvic tilt is a good exercise for nearly every kind of low back problem.  It is a staple therapeutic exercise.  In particular, pelvic tilts can be used for postural problems, low back pain due to pregnancy, and to strengthen the diastasis rectus post partum. Muscle Usage for Best Results: Some versions of the pelvic tilt emphasize using buttock muscles to "get you there".  By performing the pelvic tilt this way, the movement is less subtle than if you were to let go of gripping and use the abdominals instead.  Focusing on abdominal work to provide the movement of the pelvis will go a long way toward low back stabilization by: strenghtening the deep muscles of posture encouraging a balance of strength throughout the muscles of the pelvis. Bibliography: 1   Kisner, Carolyn and Colby, Lynn Allen. Therapeutic Exercise Foundations and Techniques. 4th ed.  2002. F.A. Davis Company. Philadelphia, Pa. 2.  Kendall, Florence Peterson, McCreary, Elizabeth Kendall and Provance, Patricia Geise.  Muscles Testing and Function 4th ed. 1993.  Williams & Wilkins, A Waverly Company.  Baltimore, Maryland. More on Pelvic Tilt Descripton & Illustration Yoga and Back Pain How to Do a Pelvic Tilt Pelvic Tilt - Related Terms Lordosis Ideal Alignment Abdominals Suggested Reading Core Strength Pregnancy & Birth Prenatal Yoga Related Articles Faulty Posture - Flat Low Back Posture Why Core Training Is Important - Wedding Workout Keep the Back Pain Away - Preventing Back and Neck Problems from Returning Establish Core Support for Good Posture Core Stabilization - Core Stabilization and the Transverse Abdominis (TVA) ... Anne Asher Back & Neck Pain Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches pelvic tilt animated illustration muscles of the body tight muscles exercise systems therapeutic exercise Explore Back & Neck Pain Must Reads What is Wrong with My Back? Identify Your Back Pain Back  Pain Treatments Back Doctors Manage Your Pain Most Popular Meningitis Awareness Quiz Many Different Specialties Rule out Meningitis What Is a "Crick in the Neck"? Neck Injuries See More About: yoga for back pain pelvic tilts back exercises low back stretches core strength By Category Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Back - Neck Injury Back and Neck Surgery Medications Conditions of the Spine Doctors Back Exercises Prevention Diagnosis General Health Chronic Back - Neck Pain Pain Management Posture Back & Neck Pain About.com Health Back & Neck Pain Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod