
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:31:43 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:27:31 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
Vary: Cookie
X-Pingback: http://blogs.fredericksburg.com/healthyliving/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3
Connection: Close

Healthy Living YOUR TOWN: Caroline | Culpeper | Dahlgren | King George | Fredericksburg | Orange | Spotsylvania | Stafford | Westmoreland TODAY: Fri, Feb. 10 | News Business Entertainment Pics Blogs Sports Obits Redskins Real Estate Classifieds Jobs Search Local Shop » News homepage » Opinion/Letters » Archives » Weekender » Editorial Cartoons » FredFaith » Movie times » Games & puzzles » Contests » TV listings » Events Calendar » Weekender » Multimedia » Submit your photos » Order our photos, pages » Place an Ad » Today's Ads » Yesterday's Ads » Advertising Info » Search Local » Restaurants » Coupons » Fredericksburg VA Hotels » Mortgage Rates » Wedding & event planning » Dining Guide » Classified Employment Ads » JobFetch Employment Listings » Employment with The Free Lance–Star Search Local Wedding & Event Planning Coupons Restaurants Show All Healthy Living HealthyLiving Should you eat like a caveman? Editor’s note: This column by Jennifer Motl will appear in Sunday’s Healthy Living section . BY JENNIFER MOTL The controversial Paleolithic or caveman diet offers some benefits, many difficulties, and not much proof of how it affects the body. Over the past few years, the diet has sparked best-selling books and lots of scientific debate. Proponents say it’s based on their best guess of what our ancestors evolved to eat 10,000 years ago. Backers promote eating grass-fed meats, poultry, eggs, fish, seafood, veggies, fruits and nuts. They eliminate processed meats like sausage and bacon; all grains (corn, wheat, rice, oats, barley, rye, quinoa, etc.) and all milk products (no cheese or yogurt, either). They also avoid eating beans, peas, snack foods, sugar and salt. Some proponents, such as Loren Cordain—author of “The Paleo Diet” and “The Paleo Answer”—also promote avoiding peanuts, potatoes and hot peppers. They link these so-called “modern” foods to dozens of ailments including heart disease, cancer, infertility, diabetes, arthritis and others. But Cordain cites only four studies of the Paleo diet supporting his position that it actually improves health. And all four studies involved only a few dozen people over a few weeks. That’s too few people and too short a time to convince me that the improved blood sugar and cholesterol levels he saw were due to anything other than weight loss. To determine the diet’s effects, I would like to see studies of hundreds or thousands of people, and I would like researchers to track not just blood sugar and cholesterol levels, but actual rates of diabetes and heart disease over several years. In “The Paleo Answer,” Cordain doesn’t just imply that grains, beans and dairy are unnecessary. He writes that they’re loaded with toxic “anti-nutrients.” I found these chapters disturbing. Although Cordain cited many small scientific papers, he didn’t have large, long-term studies to back up his assertions. He did, however, have some intriguing anecdotes from people whose health improved on his eating plan. Again, I would love to see more thorough research on hundreds of people following a Paleo diet for years to see whether the majority of folks truly did end up with  lower rates of diseases. NUTRITIONALLY SPEAKING The Paleo diet is difficult. And while I’m not entirely convinced it’s worth the effort, I don’t think it’s a harmful diet. Unlike the high-protein Atkins diet, this plan is much higher in fruits and veggies and doesn’t allow junky proteins like salami. And because it allows more fruit and thus carbs than the Atkins plan, I wouldn’t expect the kidney problems, muscle cramps and constipation found on many high-protein diets. Still, I would encourage anyone with health problems to be monitored by a physician if he or she tries this diet, just to be sure, since it flies in the face of established medical advice to reduce meat and egg consumption. DAIRY AND GRAINS The food groups the Paleo cuts—grains and dairy—are not critical to life. People can get sufficient nutrients even if they avoid grains. And despite advertising to the contrary, I no longer believe dairy products are critical to healthy bones—studies show women in Japan, where dairy is unpopular, still have strong bones. Recent studies suggest that if you get enough vitamin D, you don’t need as much calcium for bone strength. However, folks who avoid dairy need to be sure to get some calcium; green leafy vegetables can be a decent source. That said, on a personal level, I would be hard-pressed to eliminate grains and dairy products. I love the aroma of fresh bread, and I recently learned how to make my own yogurt, which is delicious. And although I eat some meat and chicken, I don’t find it appealing at every meal. But that’s just my preference. Meat-lovers might go bananas over this plan. GENES AND EXERCISE I agree with Cordain—author of “The Paleo Diet”—that our modern diet is not healthy. It’s heavy on proc-essed starch and light on fruits and veggies. But you don’t have to go back to the Stone Age to find healthy eating patterns, and more meat is not necessarily the answer to our problems. In fact, there are many healthy eating patterns. Drs. Dean Ornish and Neal Barnard have shown that a meatless eating plan can reduce heart disease and diabetes. Many less-meaty traditional diets also promote low rates of heart disease and cancer: Think about the amount of rice consumed in Japan; the whale blubber eaten by Eskimos; the corn and potatoes that Andean cultures subsisted on; and the milk emphasized in certain southern African cultures. These widely different eating plans appear to be healthy for these different populations. Whether it’s due to people’s genetics in different parts of the world or a result of all the physical activity they do is not clear. What we do know for sure is that no matter what traditional diet people eat, when they switch to modern fast foods, they get lots of diseases. Another important thing to point out is that our hunter–gatherer ancestors were a lot more active than we are. Even Cordain admits that a typical Paleolithic woman would tote her infant on her hip or shoulder for at least four miles while foraging for food—sounds like hard work to me. In my experience as a dietitian, many athletes can eat almost anything and still have lower blood sugar and cholesterol than their couch-potato peers. WHAT ABOUT THE COSTS? I also wonder if the Paleo diet is sustainable, due to its cost and effects on the environment. Researchers recently found low-income folks who receive food stamps would not be able to afford a Paleo diet. From an environmental standpoint, I wonder if we encouraged the whole world to adopt a high-protein diet, whether we’d have enough land to raise all the beef and chicken it would require. It takes much more land to raise meat than to produce an equal amount of grain and beans. And already, some oceans are overfished. So from an environmental standpoint, I wonder if a high-protein Paleo diet is sustainable. The Paleo eating plan raises a lot of intriguing questions. I hope researchers are working on a solid answer. Jennifer Motl welcomes reader questions via her website, brighteating .com, or by email at healthyliving@freelancestar.com . By Janet Marshall on February 10th, 2012 6:43 pm Share | At 50, new thoughts on ‘life after birth’ Editor’s note: This column by Dr. Delise  Dickard will appear in Sunday’s Healthy Living section . BY DR. DELISE DICKARD Recently I heard a really interesting thought:  “We contemplate much about the issue of life after death, but how much time do we spend thinking about life after birth?” Are we really living our “life after birth?”  Or are we just running around in a fog, trying to accomplish all the many things on our to-do lists? At the time I heard this I was just about to round an important birthday milestone that can send some people into a bit of a slump.  But I’ll just say it with pride—I turned 50! Fortunately, I have a wonderful group of girlfriends who turned 50 around the same time, and those who went before me have shown me just how wonderful life can be.  If it changed them at all, it was for the better. My husband secretly arranged a bit of a surprise and, suddenly, without expecting it, I was surrounded by a wonderful group of friends who were singing “Happy Birthday” to me.  My first inclination was to be embarrassed.  Before 50, I was not fond of that much attention. But in that moment—just after the first five words of the song—I decided my “after 50” would be different.  I fully enjoyed the rest of this sweet musical tradition.  I heard the warmth in my friends’ voices, and I still remember the glow on each face. Bulging with the wisdom that comes after 50,  I quickly learned a few things—and thought I would share them with you.  Some of the ideas below come from a book my husband gave me called “Fifty Things to Do When You Turn Fifty.” Once the book got me thinking, with my newfound, after-50 wisdom, I came up with some ideas myself. Here’s my new wisdom: Take every compliment home with you .  There’s no more time for turning compliments down—no time for shunning them off with humility or embarrassment.  If someone says something nice,  respond with a simple “Thank you”  and that will do just fine.  Believe it. Take it home.  And don’t forget to remember that compliment later when you are feeling blue. Free yourself of unnecessary baggage .  Take a good look at the psychological baggage you’ve been dragging around all your life.  Maybe you need to shed the “I’ll never look good until I lose 30 pounds”  mantra, or “My parents didn’t praise me enough so I’ll never measure up” refrain.  If you can’t shed this baggage on your own, please call me—I know a few good therapists who can help with this. Consider yourself old enough to say what you really think .  Remember that you can say it nicely.  But stop putting off being a real participant in life. There’s no point in waiting until you feel confident enough to speak your mind. Start living your ‘life after birth’ now.  If you don’t feel as confident as you look, then welcome to the club.  There are plenty of us out here. Give up trying to figure out what other people think .  If you are a people-pleaser like me, then you probably know the feeling of being bombarded with the possible negativity others might attribute to your words or actions.  If we can accept that people will judge us no matter what we do, then we can finally let go of the burden of pleasing them. Laugh harder and louder than anyone else in the room .  Laughter is good for you, and when people hear other people laugh, it’s more contagious than the flu—and much more fun.  Studies show that even if the original joke wasn’t funny, the physical act of laughing is really healthy and the benefits help your body and spirit in long-lasting ways. Be twice as nice to the people who stick around, even when you are cranky .  Most of us struggle with the irony of being really nice to strangers and hardest on the people we love.  Maybe it is time to change that pattern.  If you are feeling low in good energy and there is only so much to go around, share it with the ones you love first. Give yourself permission to make mistakes .  If you live long enough, you will make a mistake or two—or two hundred.  We can learn from mistakes and move on, or we can beat ourselves up mentally until we make a bigger one later.  If we are so preoccupied with a former mistake, then we are more likely to make another one.  Like the idea of shedding some old baggage, maybe we can learn to forgive ourselves for being human. Always wear whatever you darn well please .  I’ve been pretty good at this for a while.  Sometimes I love to dress up and sometimes I just want to be comfy.  So don’t mind me if you see me at a bonfire in rhinestone earrings or in the grocery store in my pajamas! Be proud and happy for every year you’ve lived .  I think the idea that “getting older is a bad thing” first emerged from a group of advertising executives wanting us to spend vast amounts of money preventing the inevitable.  Maybe we want to stop buying that garbage. One year older is one year wiser.  There’s not one thing on the drug store shelf that can give us that year of wisdom. My husband is only 49, and I caught him secretly reading my after-50 book. Of course, I grabbed it immediately, screeching:  “You can’t read this!  You aren’t old enough yet.  You wouldn’t understand it.” But he begged to differ.  “I need it now.”  Eventually, I conceded. So, whether you are 20 or 40 or 80, feel free to take any of this “after 50” wisdom home with you.  We all have the opportunity to know deep in our heart that, at any age, we have the privilege to really live our life after birth. Dr. Delise Dickard welcomes reader comments and questions. For contact information, see riversidecounseling.org . By Janet Marshall on February 10th, 2012 6:35 pm Share | Despite the hype, some new drugs aren’t effective for patients Editor’s Note: This column by Dr. Christopher Lillis will appear in Sunday’s Healthy Living section . BY DR. CHRISTOPHER LILLIS Let’s confront our human nature—we all like things that are shiny and new.  Research even shows that the more a product costs, the more likely we are to think highly of it, whether it be an electronic gadget or a new car. This particular quirk in human nature is wonderful for retailers, but it can be harmful for patient care. Patients and doctors need to be cautious about new, pricey drugs that may be aggressively marketed but not live up to the hype. GETTING APPROVAL New pharmaceuticals must jump through certain hoops before they become available. First, animal testing will occur, and if that goes well, a drug manufacturer can ask the Food and Drug Administration to allow human clinical trials. Phase I clinical trials are conducted on a very small number of healthy individuals to ensure that the drug is safe.  Then come Phase II trials, treating a very small number of individuals with the condition the drug is expected to treat. Finally, Phase III trials are conducted in a larger number of patients with the condition the drug targets. The drug’s effect is  usually compared to a placebo or sometimes to another available treatment.  Phase III trials can include thousands of patients, and the results determine if the FDA will allow a drug to come to market. So you might feel pretty good about FDA-approved drugs, surviving years of research to earn the ability to be prescribed in the United States.  But today I present a cautionary tale. HYPE AND OUTCOMES The blood pressure medicine Tekturna (aliskiren) was approved for marketing by the FDA in 2007.  A new class of medicine, it blocks a key enzyme in our body—renin—that regulates blood pressure.  The first renin-blocker available, it works on a different chemical in the same system as other generic drugs that have been around for decades. Tekturna won FDA approval after being shown in Phase III clinical trials to lower the blood pressure of patients with hypertension (high blood pressure). For the past three years, our office has been visited almost weekly by the marketing representatives of the manufacturer of Tekturna. Hypertension drugs earn drugmakers billions of dollars a year since so many Americans have high blood pressure.  Week after week, doctors are given glossy presentations lauding the virtues of drugs like Tekturna, with fairly aggressive sales techniques, to entice physicians to write prescriptions for the drug. For years, I frustrated the Tekturna representative who came to my office.  I refused to write even one prescription.  Our conversations each week were identical.  I would argue that there are generic high blood pressure medicines that are cheaper and just as effective, but much more importantly, I would argue that Tekturna did not have any proof that it was truly beneficial. To this claim, the representative was astounded that I did not agree with the glossy graphs that showed how much blood pressures were lowered for people on the drug.  For me and my patients, though, lowering blood pressure is not nearly enough; we need to know that the drug protects against the problems, such as strokes, that are linked to high blood pressure. Despite showing that Tekturna lowered blood pressures, no research trial ever documented that it reduces the risk of heart disease, stroke and death. We treat high blood pressure to reduce the risk for heart attacks and strokes.  Period. Lowering the numbers we see on the blood pressure cuff is nice, but stopping a stroke is what counts. Dozens of generic blood pressure medicines reduce the risk of stroke, heart attack and death, but Tekturna had no such research evidence. A FULLER PICTURE In the past, there have been many instances of drugs that move numbers (like blood pressure), but that can worsen clinical outcomes.  Alpha-blockers, for example, were shown decades ago to cause increased numbers of deaths in heart failure patients despite powerfully lowering blood pressures. Last month, a clinical trial of Tekturna (the ALTITUDE trial) was stopped before it was completed.  In trying to measure if Tekturna reduced the risk for heart attack and stroke, researchers discovered that Tekturna significantly increased the risk of stroke, kidney complications and problems with blood potassium levels. The drug actually caused patients harm in comparison with generic alternatives, so the manufacturer recently stopped marketing it. This is not the first time an expensive drug was found to improve some measurable number yet not affect important outcomes. Another recent example is Zetia (ezetimibe).  Zetia reliably lowers cholesterol but has never shown the ability to prevent heart attacks or deaths.  Thankfully, Zetia does not cause any harm (unless you count the harm to your wallet), or its manufacturer might have stopped marketing the drug altogether, as Tekturna’s manufacturer did. WHAT TO DEMAND To protect yourself from being a guinea pig for new drugs, beware of television ads for pharmaceuticals; they often influence prescribing behavior. And the next time your physician takes out the prescription pad, make sure you ask if there are generic alternatives to the drug being prescribed. But much more importantly, ask about the outcomes research for a given drug.  Will the drug prevent a heart attack, or just make your blood pressure numbers look better?  I know which drug I prefer when I am the patient. How about you? Dr. Christopher Lillis can be reached  at healthyliving@freelance star.com. By Janet Marshall on February 10th, 2012 6:29 pm Share | Tips for getting a good night’s sleep, even in a noisy dorm BY FRANCES WOMBLE Dr. Maha Alattar and the National Sleep Foundation shared these tips for getting good sleep: Avoid caffeine after 3 p.m. Also avoid nicotine and alcohol, which can interfere with sleep. Don’t nap for more than 45 minutes, or after 3 p.m. Establish a consistent sleep and wake schedule, and stick close to it on the weekends. Don’t eat, drink or exercise within a few hours of bedtime. Shut off electronics well before bedtime. Computers   and other devices emit light that inhibits the brain’s production of melatonin, which helps us sleep. Try wearing ear plugs if your sleep environment is noisy. By Janet Marshall on February 3rd, 2012 5:38 pm Share | College students suffer from sleep debt BY FRANCES WOMBLE University of Mary Washington freshman Meg Schoemer is the oldest of nine children in her family, so she is accustomed to sleeping through noise. Yet Schoemer said she finds  it difficult to sleep in her dorm, where someone always seems to be closing a door, listening to music or carrying on a conversation. This struggle, along with classwork and other distractions, means Schoemer  gets only 6 hours of sleep many nights—much less than what sleep experts say people her age need. The National Sleep Foundation says young adults need eight hours of sleep to function properly. But college students, like Schoemer, rarely meet this  requirement. In fact, many students find it impossible to consistently follow the foundation’s guidelines for a good night’s sleep. “The noises in the dorms are different,” said Schoemer, who has one roommate and two suite mates. “It’s rare for me to sleep through the night without waking up a few times.  It’s also difficult to fall asleep.” Part of the problem stems from finding it difficult “to sleep well away from home,” she said. “And it’s even harder when I’m constantly hearing doors open and close down the hall,” Schoemer said. In addition to being bothered by noise, Schoemer said schoolwork also keeps her up. The earliest  she goes to bed is 12:15 a.m., she said. During the school week, she wakes up between 7 and 8:15 a.m. Late nights and early mornings simply don’t add up to enough sleep to keep a person her age energized and at her best, sleep experts say. A poor sleeping schedule can affect a student’s health, said Dr. Maha Alattar, a board-certified neurologist and sleep medicine expert in Fredericksburg.  Too little sleep can lead to an increase in heart rate and blood pressure, impaired glucose tolerance, depression, headaches, a lower immune system and an increase in appetite that could lead to obesity, she said. The Journal of Adolescent Health also has reported a lower immune system in poor sleepers. A 2009 study showed that 12 percent of poorly sleeping students had three or more missed classes  in the last month because of illness.  Of good-quality sleepers, 4 percent reported a missed class in the past month due to illness. Alattar said sleep deprivation also can negatively affect a student’s concentration levels. “If you want to get an A, you have to get a good night’s sleep,” Alattar said.  “If I had known then what I know now, I would have gotten higher grades in college.” A quarter of college students say they get less than 6 hours of sleep a night, according  to  Journal of Adolescent Health. Many agreed with Schoemer that dorms can be a tough place to get a good night’s sleep. In the  study, 38 percent of college students reported poor quality sleep, and about a third of students cited excess noise as the No. 1 obstacle to falling asleep. NAPS AND CAFFEINE Suffering from chronic sleep deprivation, students often look for other solutions to gain energy throughout the day. Many find naps to be a necessary “pick-me-up” to regain lost sleeping time. Upma Kapoor, a sophomore at UMW who has three roommates, finds naps essential to get through the day. Schoemer also values a good nap, but she said she tries to limit them to 20 or 30 minutes each. “If I nap for a longer period, it can be hard to get back to work,” Schoemer said. Sleep experts say naps are most effective when taken early in the day for a short period of time.  Alattar said naps should not be taken after 3 p.m. and should not exceed 45 minutes. “If you need to nap for three hours or nap multiple times a day, something is wrong,” Alattar said. “And for college students, most often it means you are not getting enough sleep.” No amount of caffeine can replace sleep, experts say. But many students turn to it to feel energized when they are running short on sleep. UMW senior Jay Hess says  he isn’t a big caffeine drinker, but when he does drink it, it is always in the evening while studying. Although caffeine early in the day can be beneficial, caffeine close to bedtime can be detrimental to a good night’s sleep, Alattar said.  She also cautions students that caffeine should come from coffee or tea and not from sodas. “Caffeine is good early in the day, particularly if you have a test,” she said. “But in young people, it can linger in the body for five hours, so it should not be consumed after 3 o’clock because it can make your sleep lighter.” ‘IT JUST ISN’T WORTH IT’ Not surprisingly, some students link busy times in the semester, such as mid-term exams and finals, to poor sleeping schedules. Hess said he finds himself sleeping less when he has multiple assignments due in a short period of time. Some students try to prevent sleepiness by scheduling classes later in the day. Kapoor said she was able to schedule classes this semester during times when she is most attentive. “This is the first time I am not taking an 8 a.m. or a night class since I came to college,” she said. “Honestly, it is the best thing I have done for my assignments.  I am more motivated and alert because I’m awake.” When students don’t have a class to get up for the next day, they acknowledge staying up later at night, especially on weekends. Despite the inclination to alter sleep schedules on weekends, experts encourage students to maintain the same bedtime and waking time every day. “If you stay up until 4 in the morning and sleep until noon, you can affect your sleeping schedule for an entire week,” Alattar said.  “It is a very disruptive schedule, and your body is like a factory.  It replaces old cells at night.  You cannot beat nature.  It just isn’t worth it.” A guide to how much sleep people need, by age, can be found online at: sleepfoundation.org/article/how-sleep-works/how-much-sleep-do-we-really-need Tips for getting sleep in a noisy dorm BY FRANCES WOMBLE Dr. Maha Alattar and the National Sleep Foundation shared these tips for getting good sleep: Avoid caffeine after 3 p.m. Also avoid nicotine and alcohol, which can interfere with sleep. Don’t nap for more than 45 minutes, or after 3 p.m. Establish a consistent sleep and wake schedule, and stick close to it on the weekends. Don’t eat, drink or exercise within a few hours of bedtime. Shut off electronics well before bedtime. Computers   and other devices emit light that inhibits the brain’s production of melatonin, which helps us sleep. Try wearing ear plugs if your sleep environment is noisy. Frances Womble:  540/374-5444 fwomble@freelancestar.com By Janet Marshall on February 3rd, 2012 5:36 pm Share | Water gives you energy in more ways than one By Jennifer Motl Boost your energy, stamina and memory, and reduce your risk of diabetes and being overweight. This sounds like a scam, but it’s actually an accurate description of what drinking enough water can do for you. Yet Americans fall woefully short—indeed most of us are slightly dehydrated, according to NHANES, a national survey of our eating and drinking habits. Drinking enough water may reduce the risk of diabetes, according to startling new research. Scientists monitored 3,600 French men for nine years. Those who drank more than four 8-ounce cups of water daily had a 20 percent lower risk of high blood sugar, compared with men who drank half as much. Scientists say water affects the kidneys’ production of a hormone, vasopressin, that can affect blood pressure and blood sugar. Other intriguing research shows that drinking cold water can actually cause the body to burn more calories. Israeli researchers found that overweight children who drank extra water increased their metabolic rates. Theoretically, the water alone could help them to lose about 2.5 pounds a year. The studies on water and diabetes and weight need to be replicated. But  many studies already show  that drinking enough water can reduce the risk of kidney stones, ease constipation, and make people feel more energetic. Our bodies are composed of 55 to 75 percent water. Even minor dehydration, 2 percent or so, can decrease athletic performance. But you don’t have to be an athlete for this to be important. Any activity that requires physical stamina—from shoveling snow to carrying groceries to dancing—feels better when you’re hydrated. Water can even ease some headaches. And drinking enough water doesn’t just make you feel better physically. It makes you feel more alert,  helps you concentrate, and even improves your short-term memory, according to researchers at the University of North Carolina–Chapel Hill. EIGHT CUPS OR MORE? How much water do you need? It depends. Needs can range from the oft-cited eight 8-ounce cups of fluid  a day, to 13 cups for women who are breast-feeding, and as much as 26 cups a day for athletes competing in hot weather. Someone running a marathon in Florida obviously would need more water than someone sitting at a desk in a climate-controlled office. To find out if you’re getting enough water, check the toilet bowl. Not to be rude, but your urine should be clear or pale yellow. If your urine is dark yellow, you need to drink more fluid. Children and older adults are particularly vulnerable to dehydration. As we get older, we’re less sensitive to thirst, and that’s not a good thing. Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding need lots of extra fluid. And having a fever, vomiting and having diarrhea also increase your needs for fluid. REPLENISHING MINERALS If you’re sweating due to heat or exercise that lasts an hour or longer, you likely will need not just water, but minerals. You don’t need to drink Pedialyte, Gatorade or other electrolyte drinks unless you like them—regular and chocolate milk also are good sources of fluid and electrolytes. Another trick is to weigh yourself before and after your workout. Then drink as much fluid as you lost. For example, if you sweated out two pounds (32 ounces) during the workout, you would drink four cups (or 32 ounces) of fluid. Getting enough It’s easier to get enough water than it sounds. There’s usually no need to buy fancy bottled waters, which are often lower in fluoride than municipal water. Instead, invest in a good-quality water bottle that you can refill and reuse. I like the wide-mouthed bottles—they’re easier to clean than bottles with   small necks. Stainless-steel or aluminum water bottles are durable and keep water tasting fresh. Some plastic bottles give an off flavor to the water. If you prefer plastic anyway, look for a bottle that’s BPA-free. Consider carrying your water bottle almost everywhere—while shopping, exercising, driving, and everything else. When eating out, consider drinking only water. It’s easy on your wallet and your waistline. If you don’t like plain water, spruce it up. Try adding sliced lemon, lime or cucumber to your water, or a combination of the three. It’s really refreshing. Or use the water to make mint or chamomile tea—these herbal teas are caffeine-free. Caffeinated drinks like black tea, coffee and colas do count as fluid, but the caffeine can make you urinate more, thus losing more water. Sweet beverages such as lemonade, fruit juice and soda also count as fluid, but they contain so much sugar that they are not as healthy as water. Water is the most important nutrient—we last only a few days without it. With enough water, you can survive and thrive, feeling more energetic. And it costs less than other beverages. What a steal! Jennifer Motl welcomes reader questions via her website, bright eating.com, or by email at healthy living@freelancestar.com. By Newsroom Staff on January 27th, 2012 7:55 pm Share | Medication mistakes can hurt kids BY JANET MARSHALL In their zeal to help their children feel better, parents sometimes make risky decisions about medicines. Below are five common   medication mistakes  parents make, along with expert advice on how to avoid them. GUESSING, NOT ASKING When a child’s ear hurts, a parent might assume the child has an ear infection. The parent might even be tempted to treat the pain—especially if there’s an antibiotic in the house. But parents should resist the urge to diagnose and pick medicines for their children, doctors say. For one thing, a leftover liquid antibiotic—the kind commonly prescribed to children—quickly loses its potency after mixing. “So, by the time you’d reuse it, it would be expired,” said Dr. Roxanne Allegretti, of Preferred Pediatrics at Snowden in Fredericksburg. In addition, symptoms can signal many different conditions. Ear pain, for example, can stem from many things, including a dental abscess,  middle ear infection,  strep throat, eustachian tube dysfunction and swimmer’s ear, Allegretti said. “Many of these causes do not need an antibiotic at all, or need an antibiotic different from many used for ear infections,” Allegretti added. “So giving an inappropriate medication could delay diagnoses and make your child sicker.” USING A KITCHEN SPOON If your child needs a teaspoon of medicine, don’t reach for a spoon in your kitchen drawer. It’s important to give medicine using a syringe or dosing cup—something with  marked lines specifying precise amounts. Otherwise, your child may get too much or too little medicine. “It’s a big deal,” Allegretti said, “because kitchen spoons may be teaspoons or soup spoons and can range in size by quite a bit.” Studies—including one published in the Annals of Internal Medicine in 2010—show that people aren’t good at estimating what amounts to a true teaspoon. So, if each dose of medicine is given in an ordinary spoon,  “the dosing error is likely to accumulate over time,”  a summary of the report said. Mistakes can be serious. A child who gets a double dose of  acetaminophen, for example, can end up with liver problems, Allegretti said. (Acetaminophen is the main ingredient in Tylenol.) Allegretti recommends using a syringe, preferring those even over dosing cups. If a syringe isn’t available, a cooking measuring spoon may be used, though Allegretti cautions that people should double-check that they’re using a teaspoon, not a tablespoon. Confusing a teaspoon with a tablespoon can have “disastrous consequences if the medication is acetaminophen or a narcotic pain reliever or a cough suppressant,” Allegretti said. ALTERING A DOSE A little medicine helps, so a little more might really help—right? Definitely not. Allegretti said she hopes parents aren’t ever tempted to give their children an extra dose of medicine with hopes it will ease suffering. Giving in to that kind of temptation can do serious harm to a child. “Definitely if it’s a prescription cough suppressant or pain med, even doubling the dose could suppress the child’s breathing, and a high dose of acetaminophen can damage the liver,” she said. NOT FINISHING If a child is feeling better after a few days on an antibiotic, can you stop giving it? No, Allegretti said. A medicine stopped too early may not fully eliminate the infection. “Worse, it can increase the resistance of bacteria in the body to antibiotics,” she said. This can make the medication less effective the next time it’s needed. Also, if a condition such as strep throat isn’t fully treated, severe complications such as rheumatic fever or heart damage can develop, Allegretti said. GIVING COUGH MEDICINES Over-the-counter cough and cold medicines should not be given to children younger than 4 because of safety concerns. Manufacturers pulled cough and cold medicines for infants and toddlers from store shelves in 2007, after concerns arose about their safety in children under 2. Warning labels now say parents shouldn’t give the medicines to children under 4. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration also urges parents not to give children medication labeled for adults. Decongestants and cough suppressants can cause negative side effects such as sleep disturbances and behavioral changes in children, Allegretti said. And, “there is a big potential for dosing errors because of the differences in sizes of kids [and] parents not always knowing their [child’s] weight,” Allegretti said. As an alternative, studies have shown that honey is an effective cough suppressant in children—though honey should never be given to children under the age of 1. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends a half-teaspoon of honey for children ages 2–5; a whole teaspoon for those 6–11; and two teaspoons for those 12 and older. Other safe options for treating a cough and cold include using a vaporizer for congestion, croup and dry coughs; using saline nose drops or nose washes; and drinking lots of fluids, including soup broth and decaffeinated tea. Allegretti also said decongestant nose sprays can help kids, but the sprays should be used for three days at most. Children who are wheezing might be helped by a nebulizer or inhaler; consult your doctor for more advice. For still more information about kids and medicines, visit healthychild.org and type “using liquid medicines” into the search box. Janet Marshall: 540/374-5527 jmarshall@freelancestar.com By Newsroom Staff on January 27th, 2012 7:50 pm Share | About Archives February 2012 January 2012 Tags Blogroll Documentation Plugins Suggest Ideas Support Forum Themes WordPress Blog WordPress Planet Copyright , The Free Lance-Star Publishing Co. of Fredericksburg, Virginia, USA Permissions - Privacy Policy - To contact all other newspaper departments, please click here or call 540-374-5000. To contact the Free Lance–Star please use the following numbers: Main Switchboard: 540-374-5000, Advertising: 540-374-5460, Classifieds: 540-374-5001