
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 20:46:04 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » Acupuncture for Ragweed Season Allergies Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s Acupuncture for Ragweed Season Allergies September 24th, 2009 Ragweed, the bane of many allergy sufferers, is in bloom. For many individuals, ragweed causes several months of itchy, watering eyes, runny nose, sore throat, congestion, and difficulties sleeping. An estimated 36 million Americans experience seasonal allergies, according to the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI). Ragweed season affects some 10 to 20 percent of Americans. About 17 species of ragweed grow in the United States. As the plant matures, ragweed flowers release the pollen. Though each plant lives only one season, the weed produces one billion pollen grains that can travel up to 400 miles in the wind. Hay fever-type symptoms are the most typical ragweed reaction. To reduce your exposure to ragweed and manage symptoms, keep the windows closed. Use air conditioning, which cleans, cools and dries the air, preferably with a HEPA (high efficiency particulate air) filter. This helps remove pollen from indoor air. Consider staying indoors when pollen or mold counts (mold is another common allergen) are high. Pollen counts tend to peak between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Rain and cool morning temperatures slow release of pollen. Avoid mowing your lawn or raking leaves. Some ragweed allergy sufferers get allergy shots or take antihistamines, nasal corticosteroids or decongestants, which can aid in alleviating symptoms. Although these conventional medications can treat the allergic response, side effects such as drowsiness and insomnia cause many to seek alternative therapies for allergy management. Seasonal allergies can be effectively treated with acupuncture. As a holistic therapy, acupuncture can be utilized as either a complementary or primary therapy with no adverse side effects or contraindications. Acupuncture treats the root cause of allergies by correcting the underlying immune system imbalance, rather than through immune system suppression to alleviate symptoms. Acupuncture reduces occurrence of sinus headache, asthma, fatigue, and other allergic reactions while strengthening the body’s ability to process allergens and regulate antigen-antibody reactions. Acupuncture can aid in reducing medication intake and can decrease congestion. For individuals suffering from seasonal allergies, acupuncture maintenance treatments are recommended on a seasonal basis, preferably a month prior to the beginning of the allergy season. For information about acupuncture for seasonal allergy management call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician, at (305) 595-9500. Acupuncture | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr