
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 00:06:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 00:06:14 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Systematic Reviews of Interventions for Quitting Smoking skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Systematic Reviews of Interventions for Quitting Smoking Follow the links below to find summaries of the systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of interventions for quitting smoking. Created August 2011 Printer friendly page 21 Resources Found Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Title: Can cannabinoid type 1 receptor antagonists help smokers to quit, and could they also reduce the amount of weight gained during the quitting process? Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Long-term use of nicotine can upset the endocannabinoid system in the brain, which controls food intake and energy balance. Rimonabant and similar drugs may help smokers to quit by rebalancing the system, which then reduces nicotine and food cravings. W... Date: Jan 2011 Title: Do competitions and incentives help smokers to quit in the medium to long term Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Smokers may quit while they take part in a competition or receive rewards for quitting, but generally do no better than unassisted quitters once the rewards stop. We found 19 studies (more than 4500 smokers) to include in this review. One trial of 878 s... Date: Nov 2010 Title: Does hypnotherapy help people who are trying to stop smoking Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Different types of hypnotherapy are used to try and help people quit smoking. Some methods try to weaken people's desire to smoke, strengthen their will to quit, or help them concentrate on a 'quit programme'. Trials have used different types and amount... Date: Jul 2010 Title: Can Internet based interventions help people to stop smoking? Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: More evidence is needed to determine if programmes delivered over the Internet can help people to stop smoking. This review found few trials reporting success rates for stopping smoking after six months or more, and those trials provided only limited ev... Date: Jul 2010 Title: Interventions to reduce harm from continued tobacco use Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: People who smoke may be unwilling or unable to stop smoking completely. Cutting down the number of cigarettes smoked daily or smoking less damaging products may reduce the harm caused by smoking. It may also be a step towards stopping smoking completely... Date: Jun 2010 Title: Reduction versus abrupt cessation in smokers who want to quit Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: The standard way to quit smoking is to smoke as normal until a quit day at which point the smoker stops using all cigarettes. Most smokers who try to quit end up relapsing, therefore there are a number of people who have tried to quit abruptly in the pa... Date: Dec 2009 Title: Do medications used to treat depression help smokers who are trying to quit Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Multiple trials of bupropion (Zyban) for smoking cessation show that it increases the number of successful quit attempts. The side effects of bupropion include insomnia, dry mouth and nausea and rarely (1:1000) seizures and perhaps psychiatric problems,... Date: Jul 2009 Title: Does motivational Interviewing help people who smoke to quit? Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Motivational interviewing or its variants are widely used to help people stop smoking. It is a counselling technique for helping people to explore and resolve their uncertainties about changing their behaviour. It seeks to avoid an aggressive or confron... Date: Jul 2009 Title: Can interventions delivered by mobile phones help people to stop smoking? Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: More evidence is needed to determine if programmes delivered over mobile phones can help people to stop smoking. This review found text message mobile phone programmes to be effective in the short-term (six weeks), and a combined Internet-mobile phone p... Date: Jun 2009 Title: Interventions for promoting smoking cessation during pregnancy Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of the mother having complications during pregnancy and the baby being born too small (with low birthweight) and too early (prematurely, before 37 weeks). Low birthweight has been associated with coronary hear... Date: Dec 2008 Title: Do Interventions that reduce the cost of smoking cessation treatment to smokers increase quit rates, quit attempts or use of treatments Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Apart from counselling and pharmacotherapy, strategies such as financial interventions could help smokers quit. We found eight trials involving financial interventions directed at smokers and two trials directed at health care providers. Providing full ... Date: Dec 2008 Title: Self-help interventions for smoking cessation Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Advice and behavioural counselling can help smokers to quit. Giving the same type of support via written materials or other media has not been found to be very helpful, although there is likely to be a small benefit for people given no other support. Ta... Date: Nov 2008 Title: Relapse prevention interventions for smoking cessation Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Some people start smoking again shortly after quitting and are said to have 'relapsed'. Interventions used to help people avoid relapse usually focus on teaching the skills to cope with temptations to smoke. This approach and others have not been shown ... Date: Aug 2008 Title: Clonidine for smoking cessation Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Clonidine is a drug used to lower blood pressure, but it may also reduce drug and alcohol withdrawal symptoms. The review of trials found that clonidine can lead to a small increase in the number of people likely to quit smoking. However, the quality of... Date: Jun 2008 Title: Workplace interventions for smoking cessation Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Proven stop-smoking methods, like group therapy, individual counselling and nicotine replacement therapy, are equally effective when offered in the workplace. The evidence is less clear for self-help methods. Social and environmental support, competitio... Date: Apr 2008 Title: Physician advice for smoking cessation Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Advice from doctors helps people who smoke to quit. Even when doctors provide brief simple advice about quitting smoking this increases the likelihood that someone who smokes will successfully quit and remain a nonsmoker 12 months later. More intensive ... Date: Feb 2008 Title: Can tobacco control programmes that include a mass media campaign help to reduce levels of smoking among adults Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Mass media interventions involve communication through television, radio, newspapers, billboards, posters, leaflets or booklets, with the intention of encouraging smokers to stop, and of maintaining abstinence in non-smokers. It is likely that they cont... Date: Nov 2007 Title: Nursing interventions for smoking cessation Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Most smokers want to quit, and may be helped by advice and support from healthcare professionals. Nurses are the largest healthcare workforce, and are involved in virtually all levels of health care. This review of clinical trials covered 42 studies, wi... Date: Oct 2007 Title: Do smoking cessation interventions started during hospitalisation help people to stop smoking Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Smoking contributes to many health problems including cancers, cardiovascular disease, and lung diseases. Smoking also increases the risk associated with hospitalisation for surgery. People who are in hospital because of a smoking-related illness are li... Date: May 2007 Title: People who quit smoking after a heart attack or cardiac surgery reduce their risk of death by at least one third Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Smoking is harmful for the heart and circulation. People who have had a heart attack or cardiac surgery are at increased risk of further life-threatening heart problems, including death from heart attack. The review found strong evidence that quitting s... Date: Aug 2003 Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Quitting Smoking © 2012 National Health Call Cen