
Letter to Parents - Niskayuna Central School District Niskayuna
                      A-Z Academics Alumni Athletics Board
                      of
                      Education Bu dget Calendars Continuing 
					Ed. Contact
                      Us Feedback Human 
					Resources Library Parent
                      Corner Publications/Forms Search
                      Our Site Special 
                    Education Staff
                      Information Transportation e-Community 
					Board Letter mailed to parents, staff regarding 
                                pertussis On October 17, 
                                2003 a letter from Superintendent of Schools Dr. 
                                Kevin Baughman regarding two confirmed cases of pertussis at Niskayuna High School was mailed to 
                                all Niskayuna Central School District parents 
                                and put in all staff mailboxes. The text of that 
                                letter, as well as a pertussis fact sheet , are below. Dear Parent/Guardian: Our school district has been informed by 
                                Schenectady County Public Health Services that 
                                there have been two confirmed recent cases of Pertussis (Whooping Cough) at the Niskayuna High 
                                School. Pertussis is a highly 
                                contagious disease involving the respiratory 
                                tract.  It is caused by a bacterium found in the 
                                mouth, nose and throat of an infected person. Although it is unlikely 
                                that Pertussis was spread to other students, as 
                                a precaution, we are enclosing a fact sheet about this illness 
                                that was developed by the New York State Health 
                                department. Pertussis can occur at any 
                                age, but the majority of cases occur in children 
                                under the age of five years old.  Pertussis 
                                begins as a mild upper respiratory infection.  
                                Initially symptoms resemble a mild cold, 
                                including sneezing, runny nose, low grade fever 
                                and slight cough.  Within two weeks, the cough 
                                becomes more severe and is characterized by 
                                episodes of numerous rapid coughs followed by a 
                                crowing or high pitched whoop. If your child develops 
                                symptoms, please contact your school nurse, your 
                                health care provider and the Schenectady County 
                                Public Health department. If you have further 
                                questions or concerns regarding this situation, 
                                you may contact the Schenectady County Health 
                                department at 386-2824.  You may also wish to 
                                access the New York State Health department web 
                                site at http://www.health.state.ny.us. Sincerely, Dr. Kevin S. Baughman Superintendent of Schools Pertussis Facts (from 
                                the New York State Health Department) What is pertussis? Pertussis, 
                                or whooping cough, is a highly contagious 
                                disease involving the respiratory tract. It is 
                                caused by a bacterium that is found in the 
                                mouth, nose and throat of an infected person. 
                                Approximately 300 cases are reported annually in 
                                New York State. Who gets pertussis? Pertussis can occur at any age. Although most of 
                                the reported cases occur in children under five 
                                years, the number of cases in adolescents and 
                                adults is increasing. How is pertussis 
                                spread? Pertussis is primarily spread 
                                by direct contact with discharges from the nose 
                                and throat of infected individuals. Frequently, 
                                older siblings who may be harboring the bacteria 
                                in their nose and throat can bring the disease 
                                home and infect an infant in the household. What are the symptoms of 
                                pertussis? Pertussis begins as a mild 
                                upper respiratory infection. Initially, symptoms 
                                resemble those of a common cold, including 
                                sneezing, runny nose, low-grade fever and a mild 
                                cough. Within two weeks, the cough becomes more 
                                severe and is characterized by episodes of 
                                numerous rapid coughs followed by a crowing or 
                                high pitched whoop. A thick, clear mucous may be 
                                discharged. These episodes may recur for one to 
                                two months, and are more frequent at night. 
                                Older people or partially immunized children 
                                generally have milder symptoms. How soon after infection 
                                do symptoms appear? The incubation 
                                period is usually five to 10 days but may be as 
                                long as 21 days. When and for how long is a 
                                person able to spread pertussis? A 
                                person can transmit pertussis from onset of 
                                symptoms to three weeks after the onset of 
                                coughing episodes. The period of communicability 
                                is reduced to five days after antibiotic therapy 
                                is begun. Does past infection with 
                                pertussis make a person immune? One 
                                attack usually confers prolonged immunity. What are the complications 
                                associated with pertussis? Complications of pertussis may include 
                                pneumonia, middle ear infection, loss of 
                                appetite, dehydration, seizures, encephalopathy 
                                (disorders of the brain), apneic episodes (brief 
                                cessation of breathing) and death. What is the vaccine for 
                                pertussis? The vaccine for pertussis 
                                is usually given in combination with diphtheria 
                                and tetanus. Immunization authorities recommend 
                                that DTaP (diphtheria, tetanus, acellular 
                                pertussis) vaccine be given at two, four, six 
                                and 15-18 months of age and between four and six 
                                years of age. What can be done to 
                                prevent the spread of pertussis? The 
                                single most effective control measure is 
                                maintaining the highest possible level of 
                                immunization in the community. Treatment of 
                                cases with certain antibiotics such as 
                                erythromycin can shorten the contagious period. 
                                People who have or may have pertussis should 
                                stay away from young children and infants until 
                                properly treated. Treatment of people who are 
                                close contacts of pertussis cases is also an 
                                important part of prevention. to top This
                page
                is
                maintained
                by Judy Frost ,
                Communications
                Specialist,
                according
                to
                web
                publishing
                guidelines
                used
                by
                the
                Niskayuna
                Central
                School
                District.
                All
                rights
                reserved.
                This
                web
                site
                was
                produced
                in
                cooperation
                with
                the
                Capital
                Region
                BOCES
                Communications
      