Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Back Pain Relief: Effective Management Tips Home Consumer Info & News Find Local Shop & Compare Prices Online Automotive Dental Finance Healthy Living Home & Garden Insurance Legal Medical Real Estate Travel More Career Charity Credit & Lending Collectibles College Entertainment Family Living Food & Drink Gaming Green K12 Education Mortgage Pets Privacy Senior Living Shopping Small Business Sports Technology Teen Back Pain Relief: Effective Management Tips By Vinay Gupta Over 80% of adults suffer from back pain at some stage. Back pain is often a sign of injury or some underlying problem related to your spine - its bones, muscles, and other soft tissues. It could disrupt your work, routine, and your daily activities. It may even affect your normal lifestyle as you are unable to participate in recreational activities due to pain. There are a number of back pain relief remedies that are for the most part under your control. And sometimes, it's nice to know some options that you can easily incorporate into your daily routine to help manage your pain. Ice is a very effective pain reliever. Even with all the high tech medical options available, a simple ice application can still be one of the more effective, proven methods to treat a sore back or neck. Heat therapy is good too While the overall qualities of warmth and heat have long been associated with comfort and relaxation, heat therapy goes a step further and can provide both pain relief and healing benefits for many types of lower back pain. Many people believe that rest is best for a painful back, but actually, what your back really needs when it's hurt is exercise. Regular exercise relieves back pain by strengthening and stretching the muscles that support the spine and helps to prevent future injury. Walk short distances Stretch and do flexibility exercises Use a stationary bicycle Swim All these should be of course under after a medical clearance. Losing weight can also be a back pain relief. This is because being overweight can make the ache get worse. You also have to get your muscles in better shape and improving your postures when sitting, standing or sleeping. Manual physical therapy is a method of lower back pain treatment that uses a specialized type of physical therapy to relieve pain. Studies have shown that massage therapy is more effective than both chiropractic and acupuncture for relieving pain due to muscle spasms. Hydrotherapy for back pain relieves pain by loosening the muscles and ridding the body of toxins that produce pain and inflammation. If you have tight hamstring muscles (the large muscles in the back of your thighs), the motion in your pelvis may be limited, which can increase stress across your lower back. To decrease this stress it is a good idea to incorporate hamstring stretching exercises into your daily routine. Hamstring stretching should typically include applying even pressure to lengthen the hamstring muscle for 30 to 45 seconds at a time, one to two times each day. We have the team of medical experts that provides consultation 24 hours. For more information about back pain causes, you can post medical question online at www.simplyanswer.com. About the Author: Vinay Gupta is an experienced writer who is writing for Online Medical Advice and Tips For Back Pain Relief for the website www.simplyanswer.com . Article courtesy of www.goarticles.com . Family Living Health Insurance Financial & Legal Planning Family Fun Relationships Safety Family Guide HEALTH Nutrition Active Lifestyle Rest and Relaxation Family Planning Choosing a Doctor Work/Life Balance About | Advertise | Add Link | Copyright | Disclaimer | Local Directory | Privacy | Publish | Site Map | Consumer Guide Copyright © 2000 - Visit some of our affiliated sites: Find a variety of consumer related information, including Attorneys & Lawyers , legal consumer articles at Legal Consumer Guide , and information at Legal Guide Network , medical sites and information at Medical Guide Network , & more consumer guides at Consumer Guides Network Lawsuit Information , additional Consumer Articles , more Consumer Info , a large research site to Find