
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 07 Mar 2012 16:09:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lower Back Pain Relief:  Hip Pain Relief| Exercises | Stretches | Yoga Yoga >> Yoga Exercises >> Exercises For Lower Back Pain >> Lower Back Pain Relief Follow Lower Back Pain Relief When people get back pain, they often think that they need more rest. While rest is important, exercise is more important if you want to heal your back pain. Exercises can help strengthen your back and stretch the muscles that support your back. This also helps in preventing future injuries. There are several types of lower back pain exercises. Yoga: Regular yoga practice is good for the body and mind. Whether you have back pain or not, yoga exercises are good for the health. In fact, research shows that yoga is one of the best forms of exercises for relieving back pain. You must remember that not all yoga postures will bring relief, and a few can also aggravate your back pain. So if you want to do yoga exercises for hip pain relief and back pain relief, then you need to do these exercises under the supervision of a yoga instructor. Here are a few exercises that will help your get relief from your back pain. Corpse Pose: You have to lie on your back on a yoga mat. Your palms should be down and your legs should be parted some distance. Breathe in and out for a short time, and this will allow the tension to drain out of your body. Cat stretch: Go down on your hands and knees and keep your back flat. Your hands should be on the yoga mat, and just below the shoulders and your fingers should be spread out. Your knees should be below the hips. Hold your head loosely, so that you are looking between your hands and at the floor. Breathe in deeply and when you breathe out, you must arch your back towards the ceiling. Tuck your chin in, right into your chest, in such a position that your gaze is directed towards your navel, and tuck in your tailbone. Hold the position for a while and then release. Wind-releasing pose: For this, you must lie flat on your back, in Corpse pose. When you inhale, bend your knee and place your hand just below your knee, and then draw up your legs towards your chest. Keep your left leg flat on the floor. Breathe out and bring your forehead up so that you can touch your knee. Breathe in and when you breathe out, go back to your original position. Repeat the same movements with your other leg. You can also do other yoga positions like Sage Twist, Palm Tree and Fish Pose. Submitted on July 16, 2010 Follow Related Articles Exercises Scoliosis Muscles | Yoga Scoliosis | Crocodile Pose Scoliosis is a medical condition characterized by curvature of the spine. The spine tends to curve Lower Back Pain Relief Yoga Poses Back Muscle Pain Back pain, especially lower back pain, has become an incredibly common ailment. It can be caused by Back Pain Treatment Medication | Relief | Exercises | Middle |Upper | Lower Back Pain Back Pain MedicationChoosing back pain medication largely depends on the kind of problem you have. Exercises Chondromalacia Patellae | Illiotibial Band | Hamstring Stretch If you are suffering from intense pain in one or both knees, you may be suffering from Exercises Elderly Sitting | Leg | Strength | Chair Exercises Elderly Regular exercise helps to strengthen the body muscles and allows one to stay fit. These are Features Archive 10 Tips To Motivate Yourself To Get Off The Couch And Start Yoga Exercises - Jul, 2009 Sun Salutation (Surya Namaskar) :: Poster For Step By Step Instructions - Mar, 2009 Yoga Exercises for Winter Care to keep you Fit and Healthy - Feb, 2009 Related Topics Back Strengthening Exercises | Yoga Lower Back Pain Yoga Back Pain | Neck Pain | Shoulder Pain Yoga Lower Back Pain | Lower Back Pain Relief Exercises Yoga Routine Back Pain Relief Yoga Sciatica | Medication | Stimulus Yoga Yoga back pain crossing legs Newsletter Sign-up Subscribe eBooks Related Yoga Information yoga and fear yoga adrenal exhaustion yoga and bad knees manduka yoga mat yoga and psychotherapy Get Current News Lower Back Pain Relief Follow us on Copyright © 2011 Waterfront Media, Inc. Terms of Use | Sitemap The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy . Search: Yoga | Logi