
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 16:56:35 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Supplements & Herbs In the Natural Treatment of Cancer & Other Diseases (1) Home | Why alternatives | Causes | Treatment | Holistic | Budwig | Juicing | Resources Support this Site If you feel you have been helped by this site, please share the message and take a look at the easy ways you can contribute at no financial cost. More Information Supplements and Herbs Healing Cancer Naturally:
                    Supplements & Herbs (1) ”Crops have higher yields when more [carbon dioxide] is available... But there's a trade-off between quantity and quality. While crops may be more productive, the resulting produce will be of lower nutritional value.” Peter S. Curtis, ecologist at Ohio State University, linking escalating
                  
                  greenhouse gas levels (and resulting crop yield increases)
                  
                  to a decrease in the nutritional value of these crops General, Pros and Cons & Background Rising atmospheric CO2 decreases micronutrients in plants world-wide Copyright © 2004 Healing Cancer Naturally An October 2002 report (Rising atmospheric CO2 and human nutrition: toward globally imbalanced plant stoichiometry? by Irakli Loladze, Ph.D., Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University) discusses the effects of rising CO2 (ongoing increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration) on human nutrition. The atmospheric CO2 concentrations have increased since pre-industrial times, altering the chemical composition of plants - the fundamental food source for humanity, with the data showing that overall concentrations of microelements in plants decline when atmospheric CO2 rises. One example of many: a new report by Fangmeier et al. (2002) based on a large study of the second most important crop in Europe (potato), shows an overall decline in the concentrations of almost all measured essential elements in both foliage and tubers under elevated CO2 conditions. In other words, rising CO2 aggravates 'hidden hunger' - apparently the leading nutritional disorder in the world. Since increasing atmospheric CO2 affects all plants world-wide, this decrease in nutrients would apply to both conventionally grown mass-produced crops and to organically grown foods (which otherwise are consistently superior in both taste, nutritive content and mineral balance), and simultaneously invalidate the often-heard claim that a well-balanced diet renders supplementation superfluous. The above-described “CO2 effect” adds its detrimental influence to that of an “agriculture which robs our daily food of over 60 natural and crucially vital trace elements without which we sicken and die - and as if this were not enough - an agriculture which then adds its poisons to our daily food, to the air we breathe, to the water we drink, and to the soil in which we grow our crops.” The final result? A world where more and more people fall prey to all manner of disease including cancer. Read an eye-opening article on conventional husbandry and rising cancer incidence . Dr. Bodo Kuklinski, director of the renowned Diagnostic & Therapeutic Centre for Environmental Medicine in Rostock, Germany, has arrived at a similar conclusion but attributes the decrease in nutrition of foodstuffs uniquely to industrialized farming methods and mass production leading to dramatic decreases in vitamin and mineral content. He found that even those eating a normally varied diet are chronically undersupplied with vital nutrients and "starving in the midst of abundance". The European Centre for Immunotherapy and Immunological Research (private clinic Obertal in Beiersbronn, Germany) for instance ascertained that the calcium content of potatoes decreased by 70 percent (from 14 milligramm per 100 grams to 4 mg) between 1985 and 1996. The vitamin C content of spinach dwindled by more than half while bananas showed a whopping 93 percent decrease in essential vitamin B6 (which, among other things, strengthens mental concentration and the immune system). Karen Vago confirms in "Protégez votre corps": “Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium-based fertilizers make the plants grow so fast that they have no time to store a sufficient amount of minerals. They can't draw from the soil their share of zinc, manganese, chromium, selenium and magnesium. If allowed to grow 'naturally', they are able to accumulate the substances vital for our cells and our whole organism.” Related content On Cravings Organic vs. Conventional Food and Cancer On Glyconutrients, Cancer, & the Need for Supplements Research corroborates: a wholesome diet is more healing than taking isolated supplements Research corroborates that eating nutrients as part of a wholesome diet and/or within a whole food is more health-promoting and cancer-fighting than taking the respective supplements in isolation. This is due to the synergistic effect various food nutrients display in the human body. See for instance news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/3239483.stm mercola.com/2003/may/21/supplements.htm mercola.com/2003/oct/25/vitamins.htm Quotes: "’Our findings strongly suggest that risks of poor dietary habits cannot be reversed simply by taking a pill... We shouldn't expect easy solutions to complex problems. We must focus more on choosing a variety of healthy foods, exercising and watching our weight.’ ...The researchers also found that restricting the amount of food given to the rats cut their risk of developing prostate cancer - regardless of which diet they were on...Separate research has shown that higher levels of lycopene in the blood is linked to a lower risk of prostate cancer." See Cancer Diet & Nutrition . More on the preferability of eating nutrients as part of a wholesome diet in Bioavailability: the science behind “live” and “dead” minerals Should I Take "Supplements"? excerpted from The Master Cleanser by Stanley Burroughs Some people want to take vitamin pills or food supplements while on the [ Master Cleanser lemonade detoxification] diet. This frequently fails to produce the desired result. There are many reasons. As the lymphatic glands become clogged, they are no longer able to assimilate and digest even the best of foods. As we cleanse our bodies and free our cells and glands of toxins that clog and paralyze our assimilation, we free our various organs and processes to do their proper jobs. Note earlier about all the necessary vitamins and minerals are in the lemonade, and therefore we do not need an additional supply in most cases. Compare Edgar Cayce on Assimilation and Elimination . Vitamin pills and supplements do not grow on trees as such but rather come to us in fruits, berries, vegetables and plants. Man will never take a group of natural or synthetic foods; process and combine them in a variety of products, and come up with anything equal or better than the original. They have lost much of their basic life and energy by combining them according to a man made concept. Many dangerous side effects can occur because of improper and unequal balances present. Stay with the natural laws of balance. First one must decide if God is right or if man is right. If God is right then man and his ideas of processing-tearing apart and rearranging-are likely to be wrong. Later, as we consume a more complete variety of foods, we find our sources of vitamins and minerals complete and in forms that are easily assimilated-it should not be necessary to return to these supplements even if one is accustomed to taking them. The sources of good food are steadily being enlarged as people become more educated concerning them. Search these sources and rely on them for your total nutritional needs. The lemon is a loosening and cleansing agent with many important building factors. The ability of the elements in the lemon and the maple syrup working together creates these desired results. Its 49% potassium strengthens and energizes the heart, stimulates and builds the kidneys and adrenal glands. Its oxygen builds vitality. Its carbon acts as a motor stimulant. Its hydrogen activates the sensory nervous system. Its calcium strengthens and builds the lungs. Its phosphorus knits the bones, stimulates and builds the brain for clearer thinking. Its sodium encourages tissue building. Its magnesium acts as a blood alkalizer. Its iron builds the red corpuscles to rapidly correct the most common forms of anemia. Its chlorine cleanses the blood plasma. Its silicon aids the thyroid for deeper breathing. The natural iron, copper, calcium, carbon, and hydrogen found in the sweetening supplies more building and cleansing material. It truly is a perfect combination for cleansing, eliminating, healing, and building. Hence, supplements are not needed during the diet and may actually interfere with its cleansing action. What about the use of vitamins? Vitamins and minerals have always been a necessary part of natural living. Not satisfied with God's plan, man has attempted to improve the situation by separating them from fresh live foods, then processing and combining them to conform to his concept of what they should be. Not satisfied with the finished product, attempts were made to produce them synthetically. It was big business-and we became a world of "pill pushers," whether they were needed or not. More often they were not needed. No one really knew if the pills were needed, or how many-people just took them because they might have a deficiency! Just how these vitamins and minerals should be balanced and formulated led to many differences of opinion. A large variety of experts, in processing and manufacturing of pills, disagree as to how the many billions of pills should be made. They all have different formulas and claim theirs are the best even though much is lost in the processing. However, even without any clear consensus as to their worth and use, they were manufactured and processed; therefore they must be sold with no thought as to possible side effects from overdosing or imbalances. Millions of dollars are made by the producers and the sellers with little regard for the true needs of the consumer. In reality, the whole process could have been completely avoided. Our Creator has already done a better job of making sure we receive all the needed vitamins and minerals in a perfectly balanced form. Only the finest of natural foods in their original package are good enough for bringing complete energy and life to build and retain a healthy body. Any time man attempts to improve on God's formulas and plans, the result is bound to be a failure. The simple rules to complete nutrition include all the vitamins and minerals needed by all mankind and all animals. Our Creator has given the right food for the right animal for complete nutrition. This is also true for man. When these foods are properly prepared and eaten, there is nothing more that man can do to prepare a better food. As we eat the correct foods without excesses, the body will produce ALL the needed vitamins. Foods grown properly , in complete, mineral-rich soil, will have all the minerals in them. Thus, we have no need for vitamin enriched foods, created synthetically by man, nor for extra minerals. But see Rising atmospheric CO2 decreases micronutrients in plants world-wide . All refined and devitalized foods must be completely eliminated from our diet. If refined and devitalized foods are eaten, then and only then does man have any need for additional supplements. Just how much and what combination, even with long and complicated tests,, will probably never be determined, so this form of unnatural nutrition will always be lacking. Such a plan is a very poor substitute for the right way. Read long excerpts from The Master Cleanser by Stanley Burroughs . Dr. Hulda Clark on Making Clean Vitamin D excerpted from www.HuldaClark.net where it was formerly published The pollution problem for vitamin D comes from the need to dilute it to the standard 400 units allowed by regulations, in such a way that the consumer knows how much they are getting. This can be done in an elaborate way or a simple way such as adding it to plain oil with flavor added. But oil is never "plain". It comes polluted with PCB, benzene and often antimony, an outright poison. It also is loaded with Ascaris eggs and other invisible filth. The flavoring is not simple either. It might have any or all the immune-destroyers. ... the vitamin D3 concentrate, as it comes from the manufacturer could have lead in it. ... Lead could come simply from the copper plumbing used in the manufacturing plant. So you see how pollution and contamination at the very beginning of the preparation of a supplement could get amplified into a formidable problem at the end. The final product will carry every pollutant brought in from all the ingredients. For an introduction to the cancer healing and and “self-health” protocols developed by Dr. Clark, see Dr. Hulda Regehr Clark's detoxification protocols where you can download extensive excerpts from her work The Cure For All Diseases and The Cure For All Cancers. Edgar Cayce concise reading on vitamins “Eat the foods that carry these vitamins, rather than adding the vitamins ...” READING 3099-1 F 57 “Although Cayce typically relied on diet to meet nutritional needs, he sometimes recommended nutritional supplementation.” See Cayce’s Dietary Advice for Cancer Treatment & Prevention . More on health & healing cancer by Edgar Cayce at Edgar Cayce Nutritional Advice and Edgar Cayce’s views of health and the causes and treatment of cancer and other disease (detailed coverage). About Individual Supplements Vitamin cocktail cuts cancer deaths Supplement had a dramatic effect An extensive study has revealed that a specific mega-dose (antioxidant) supplement group can dramatically reduce cancer risk. A total of 13,000 men and women took part in the seven year study, which found that regular use of a particular supplement group produced a 31% reduction in the risk of all cancers in men taking the antioxidants. The supplement group is: 6mg of beta-carotene, 120mg of vitamin C, 90mg of vitamin E, 100 micrograms of selenium, and 20 milligrams of zinc. The findings “completely support recommendations for following a healthy diet, particularly one rich in fruit and vegetables which are major dietary sources of antioxidant vitamins and minerals, for all ages in life and for both sexes." The “scientists agreed that vitamins and minerals were better obtained from fruit and vegetables. They wrote: 'There is reason to believe that the effect would be less than that of dietary sources of antioxidants, particularly fruit and vegetables, which provide other protective substances.'" Compare Research corroborates: a wholesome diet is more healing than taking isolated supplements . To read more about the study, go to news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/3122033.stm. Vitamin C healing testimony From files http://natural-oncology.org When my teenage daughter Helen was hospitalized with "terminal" (stage 4B) Hodgkin's disease in 1974, I put her on 40 grains of vitamin C per day (526 mg/lb.). Her doctors were aghast: "You'll kill her!" "Nonsense!" I replied. She recovered quickly, and 24 years later is in vibrant good health. ... If vitamin C is used in large amounts, most experts suggest that buffered vitamin C (sodium ascorbate) should be used rather than ascorbic acid, since the acid form may be too acidic in multi-gram doses. Sodium ascorbate powder (1 level tsp. equals 4 grams) may be purchased inexpensively by the pound or the kilogram from the Wholesale Nutrition Company (1-800-325-2664) or from Bronson (1-800-610-4848). Compare Oral megadoses of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) and cancer and Intravenous High-Dose Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) Infusion in Cancer/Tumor Treatment . . Additional tips on using Ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) by Leonard (leonardleonard1 at earthlink.net) I think the benefits (for people with cancer) of taking large amounts of vit. C far outweigh any harmful effects (such as the alleged acidification of the blood when taking more than a few grams per day). [Also], acidifying is NOT NECESSARILY harmful for cancer patients (Boik). According to Gonzalez, the ascorbic acid form of vit. C tends NOT to acidify sympathetic-dominant persons, which most cancer patients are. ... if you're not on a low-sodium diet, you can use sodium ascorbate (or perhaps mixed ascorbates in moderate amounts). Buffered formulas sometimes contain way too much calcium if one wishes to take large doses of C. I would avoid calcium ascorbates, including Ester C. If using small amounts, I would get food-based vit. C (Megafood or New Chapter). If using large amounts AND money is not an issue, I would use beet-derived (ideally BioImmune.com) vit. C; cancer cells reportedly don't develop a resistance to it (like they do to corn-derived vit. C). If money is an issue, I would take sodium ascorbate or ascorbic acid. If using HUGE amounts, I would use sodium ascorbate. Many practitioners recommend taking vit. C to bowel tolerance. Vit. C is synergistic with beta-glucan. Receiving IV drips of several dozen grams of vit. C can be powerfully cancer-healing. Compare Intravenous High-Dose Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) Infusion in Cancer/Tumor Treatment . Vitamin B 17 (Laetrile/Amygdalin/Nitrilosides) by Leonard (leonardleonard1 at earthlink.net) (Background article on Laetrile here ) “I've read ... about amygdalin/Laetrile [that] "cancers of the lung, breast, colon, ovaries, stomach, esophagus, prostate, and the lymphomas, are much helped" by Laetrile (Ernesto Contreras, Sr., M.D. cited in Diamond et al ., 1997, pp. 126-127). I do NOT think it's especially effective with myeloma. The above comments refer to IV laetrile, not oral amygdalin, which is much less powerful. Its effectiveness appears to be greatly enhanced by taking it with proteolytic enzymes (particularly pancreatin) and vit. A. It's a powerful pain-reliever and also alleviates nausea and vomiting. Michael Schachter, M.D. and Douglas Brodie, M.D. have prescribed 500 mg taken 3 times a day or 3-5 apricot kernels 3 times a day (Diamond et al., 1997, pp. 78-79, 376). I heard it's best to take it with food, in several small dosages throughout the day (NOT one large dosage). The richest sources are the pits/seeds/kernels of apricot, peach, cherry, and (probably to a lesser extent) apple, and plum/prune. Since they are (slightly) toxic when taken orally, I'd eat about 5 kernels (no more than that a one time) 3 or 4 times a day, but no more if I had cancer. Laetrile is powerfully effective in healing cancer (and is nontoxic) only when taken IV. Sun-dried kernels and bitter almonds contain significant amygdalin (sweet almonds do not). Foods highest in amygdalin are wild blackberry, choke cherry, wild crabapple, cranberry, apple seeds, apricot seeds, cherry seed, nectarine seed, peach seed, plum seed, prune seed, bitter almond, broad beans, cassava, and alfalfa. In conclusion, I think it's helpful but I would not make it a priority. Addendum by Healing Cancer Naturally: Also compare the following testimonial from a former bladder cancer patient, now healed by a combination of “alternative” approaches, quote: “Two years ago I chewed upwards of 30 apricot kernels a day ... [but t]he months and months of heavy kernel use did nothing. This is not a condemnation of apricot kernels. [Not everything works for everyone all the time.]” Note that Healing Cancer Naturally has no details on the approaches this former bladder cancer patient used. CAUTIONS Do NOT exceed recommended dosage. "Apricot kernels...although they have been widely used, they are potentially toxic taken orally (Moss, 1992, p. 367). Avoid eating large amounts of (sweet) almonds while taking amygdalin. Do NOT take megadoses of Vit. C while taking Laetrile/amygdalin (unless directed by practitioner), and do NOT use Laetrile/amygdalin at times of fever. Slight temperature, itching, or irritation at tumor site indicate healing. For more information: www.cancure.org/laetrile.htm whale.to/m/binzel.html annieappleseedproject.org/laetb17cyan.html annieappleseedproject.org/ralmosphdonl.html (Dr. Ralph Moss interview) curezone.com/foods/laetrile.html smart-drugs.net/ias-laetrile-cancer.htm cytopharma.com/modeaction.htm stopcancer.com/B-17.htm cancer-prevention.net/ www.second-opinions.co.uk/laetrile.html ralphmoss.com/html/nieper.shtml (Hans A. Nieper, MD) ralphmoss.com/html/benz.shtml groups.yahoo.com/group/cancercured/message/5855 (you need to sign up as a member of cancercured to read this message Griffin's book [ World Without Cancer ] is considered the "bible" on amygdalin. In addition to online shops, apricot pits are also available in many health food stores, for instance here: Organically Grown Apricot Kernels http://www.apricotshop.co.uk/index.php?act=viewCat&catId=2 (currently shipping to the UK, Ireland, Europe [EU] and USA) Compare background article on Laetrile , Ernst Krebs lecturing on Vitamin B17 , The Ultimate Cancer Conspiracy: Vitamin B17/Laetrile , Vitamin B17 quotes and the book World Without Cancer . Variously recommended supplements ”Superfoods” recommended by Dr. Tim O'Shea on thedoctorwithin.com comprise Antioxidants [If you are on the Budwig diet , compare antioxidant comments in the Budwig Protocol FAQ .] Digestive Enzymes Colon Detox /Flora Vit/Mineral Complex Oxygenators Compare Treating Cancer With Oxygen, Ozone & Hydrogen Peroxide . Collagen. Dr. Juergen Buche recommends as “Supporting Supplementation” among other things: “ Cayenne Pepper - Capsicum Quote, "this inexpensive and abundant remedy can save your life...
                "
                [Cayenne apparently directly inhibits cancer-cell growth.] Cesium Chloride High pH therapy to quickly reduce large tumors/cancers. Also compare cancertutor.com’s Alkalinity/Cesium page and if you are on the Budwig diet , the comments on 
                          Cesium therapy in the Budwig Diet & Protocol FAQ . Comfrey The great healer for all ulcerations, internal bleeding and lung problems; Cancer, Wounds and Comfrey - some unbelievable remissions with comfrey poultices - a potent remedy! Fenugreek loosens and expels mucus and dead waste matter and toxins Germanium Garlic the great blood cleanser, an ‘antibiotic’ and anti-parasitic (but compare Garlic - Toxic for the Brain? According to physicist Dr. Robert Beck, Garlic's sulphone hydroxyl ions penetrate
                          
                          the blood-brain barrier and are a specific poison for brain cells.) Saw Palmetto berries for prostate BPH syndrome & cancer Hydrazine Sulfate a very promising cancer remedy.” Dr. Buche adds a general caveat to prevent readers from thinking that popping a pill (even an “alternative” or herbal one) will necessarily do magic if the recovery from cancer isn’t addressed in a more encompassing, holistic manner. www.cancertutor.com addresses the following supplements or alternative cancer treatments Laetrile (amygdalin, Vitamin B17 ) Noni Juice [ link to testimonials ] Cesium Chloride Protocel/Cantron (was Cancell) Graviola Tree MGN-3 Poly MVA Natural Chemotherapy (Brain Cancer) Dr. Matthias Rath Cellular Solution Osiecki Cancer Technique Coenzyme Q10 / Co Q10 Gaston Naessens 714X Hydrazine Sulphate MSM / Organic Sulphur Ionized / Alkaline Water and many other alternative cancer treatments “including information on how to combine these treatments and how to supercharge these treatments with new discoveries” (compare Links ). Related section Supplements & Herbs About Herbs & Grasses Introduction by Healing Cancer Naturally © 2004 & 2009 "There is a herb for every illness." (German saying) In fact there may be even much more than just one herb for every illness. In  addition to many if not most vegetables and fruits, numerous herbs and plants have been (and continue to be) reported as having either specific cancer-healing benefits/components or to generally boost the body's ability to heal itself from a variety of conditions involving below-par health. That said, a person well-versed in alternative cancer treatments commented on the use of herbs in cancer treatment (paraphrased) that he felt that while herbal cancer remedies used to be quite powerfully cancer-healing, with people and environment becoming increasingly polluted (and I would add, with soils becoming increasingly depleted), herbs overall had become less effective today. But this shouldn’t discourage anyone from using what can be a powerful healing modality - herbs! Did you know that even a number of chemotherapy medications are derived from herbs? Vincristine and Vinblastine for instance are derived from the herb periwinkle, and Taxol is made from the bark of a specific tree. There is a lot more money to be made once these herbs are chemically manipulated to become patentable while preserving some of the characteristics/effects of the herbal base and this is likely the reason why herbal preparations that have proven efficient with many people are either denounced or actively suppressed by the medical establishment. A graphic illustration among several: the history of the Hoxsey formula , known to be highly effective with many cancers and reportedly extremely effective with basal cell carcinoma (compare On Cancer Business ). Herbs and cancer by Dr. Jürgen Buche Text partially excerpted and adapted by Healing Cancer Naturally from Dr. Jürgen Buche’s former Preventorium site Many claims have been made for marked anti-neoplastic action in certain plants (anti-neoplastic is a term that means that some blocking or inhibiting effect is shown against neoplasm, or new growth). Every healing tradition in the world has plants that have a reputation for being anti-cancer herbs. A research project in the United States is monitoring every flowering plant in the world (it will take some time) for cancer-inhibiting properties. Some of the ‘miracle drugs' used in the treatment of cancer by orthodox medicine were found in plants. The best example is the Madagascar Periwinkle, which is the source of the drug vinblastin and vincristine which are used in leukemia. This is an example of the way herbs may be used specifically or as sources of active ingredients. Whilst not wanting to belittle the value of this approach, it is limited by the perception of cancer as a specific localized condition, which a specific drug (or herb) will counteract. It is far more appropriate to approach this condition as a manifestation of systemic disease, and use such systemic treatments as are appropriate in aiding the body to regain control. Herbs can be most effective in supporting this sort of bodily transformation through their cleansing, strengthening and healing properties. They work best when they are part of an approach to transformation - change in body, mind and spirit - which is possibly the only effective context in which to treat cancer. Using the whole system approach we recommend alteratives and specific anti- neoplastic herbs as most relevant. Alteratives Through the cleansing and normalizing activity of the alteratives, herbs can support the process of the body ridding itself of cancerous growths. The remedies that work via the liver, augmenting its detoxifying activity, are especially useful. These include Burdock, Yellow Dock and many others. The kidneys’ important eliminative function is aided by Cleavers (part of the Kidney Cleansing Tea (kit)) and other herbs. Remedies that have specific tonic and cleansing action on the Lymphatic system are especially indicated in the herbal approach to cancer. Such herbs are Echinacea, Golden Seal etc. Consider the Preventorium's Tissue Cleansing Decoction . Anti-neoplastics To aid the body in reasserting order and structured organization in the affected tissue, we use plants that appear to have a specific action in inhibiting and combating the development of tumors. Many claims are made for different plants, some justified, some wishful thinking. We could give an exhaustive list culled from folk lore and old herbals, but while the action of some is certain, that of others is somewhat nebulous and uncertain. Those we list in the Tissue Cleansing Decoction (CCD) are in use in modern herbal therapeutics, especially in North America. The way in which these herbs work has not been fully analyzed from a scientific standpoint, but we know that they have a definite role to play in any herbal treatment of cancer. In addition to specific anti-neoplastic plants, we should remember that, through aiding an organ or tissue with supportive and sustaining remedies, a renewal and release of ' vital energy ' will move the affected part of the body to heal itself of the cancer. It may in fact be appropriate to use plants that are specific for that organ or suggested by the general state of health that have 'nothing' directly to do with cancer. For example, if there is a long history of lung infections, but the tumor is in the stomach, utilize tonics for both lungs and stomach. As explored throughout this treatise, healing comes from the life force of our own being and herbs can only facilitate this . More on Herbs If herbs or natural remedies are considered (and we trust that this is the case), then one can start with Garlic (traditionally a potent cancer preventive, blood cleanser and immune system stimulant), Ginseng and Cayenne as a stimulant, Chickweed is an excellent additional blood purifier. A powerful diuretic and potent anti-cancer herb is Cleaver’s Herb which is part of our Kidney Cleansing Tea and the above-mentioned Tissue Cleansing Decoction (CCD). Taheebo eliminates the pain associated with cancer and it multiplies red blood corpuscles. If pain persists, drink approximately 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. each of Lobelia and Ginseng powder in water. A Garlic enema at the onset of pain will also bring relief. Another pain reliever is a poultice of one part Mullein and three parts Lobelia placed on the area of pain. A Castor oil pack on the liver area will relieve the pain there. Make sure that you bring heat to the top surface by a hot water bottle or heating pad. Keep the pad in a refrigerator when not in use. A plastic pad will prevent soiling other things like the bed. Golden Seal helps the hormonal balance, Rosehips is an excellent source of vitamins A, B, C, E, D, P, and Rutin. It helps dissipate infections and improves immunity function. Devil's Claw and Chaparral help detoxify the lymph and blood. Certain Chinese herbs in special combinations will help considerably in the restoral and maintenance of the immune system. There are others herbs as well. Each case should be discussed in detail in order to make an intelligent choice in order to help the task of detoxification. Caution: NEVER MIX HERBS AND SYNTHETIC PRESCRIPTION DRUGS TOGETHER AT THE SAME TIME! More on healing/alleviating cancer pain Herbal cancer treatments A number of herbal or plant preparations boast good success rates in helping heal tumors, among them The Hoxsey Formula Cansema herbal salve & tonic (link to testimonials) Essiac tea Pau D'Arco tea (link to testimonials) Mistletoe: Iscador, viscum album, European mistletoe: approved by
                          
                Commission E (European regulatory agency) for use as adjuvant tumor therapy,
                approved for use in Austria, Switzerland and Germany. ISCADOR® is not only the leading complementary medicine, it is the #1 prescribed cancer medication in
                          Germany. In the US, ISCADOR® is available under the brand name ISCAR®  from Weleda, Inc., a division of the Swiss company Weleda AG that has been
                          specializing in complementary medicine and natural skin care products for 90
                          years (in 2011). (link to testimonials) Edgar Cayce’s advice: herbal cancer treatment SARVAPISTI Summary of www.cancercurative.org by  Healing Cancer Naturally The Indian D. S. RESEARCH CENTRE have cured thousands of cancer patients - even terminally advanced - with 'SARVAPISTI' - the “wonder medicine” for all types of cancer combining the nutrient energy extracted from 1621 human edibles. "Nutrient Energy is the sole prescription of Nature for keeping up health, resisting unfavourable conditions of health and curing ailments. Our food is the reservoir of nutrient energy ... which strengthens the immune system and increases the power of resistance against unfavourable conditions that cause diseases and ailments." Convinced that a) cancer was basically a single disease despite its occurrence in different systems of the human organism, b) that the cause of cancer was extreme deviation in metabolism and c) that this deviation might be removed only with the help of nutrient energy, 'SARVAPISTI' has been developed and applied on terminally ill patients who had been sent back home by hospitals as being beyond the limits of any treatment, but not before destroying the patients' physical vitality and immune system by dangerous chemo drugs . Cancer of all forms and stages-acute leukaemia, liver cancer, gall bladder cancer, sarcoma of bones, astrocytoma of brain and other types of brain cancer, stomach, oesophagus and pancreas cancer and dangerously advanced metastatic cases-were cured. D. S. Research Centre‘s book CANCER IS CURABLE NOW contains evidential and scientific details of 111 cancer victors and vivid descriptions of the cancer curative 'Nutrient Energy Therapy' and other applications. More on herbal treatment of cancer for instance at: http://www.medical-library.net/content/view/189/41/ Finding the right modalities, foods and remedies for you by  Healing Cancer Naturally, © 2004 & 2006 As perhaps in all other areas of life, what is true for one isn’t always true for another, and what works for one won’t necessarily work for another. Life and the universe (as mentioned) aren’t just mostly empty space but for all that emptiness, also exceedingly complex :-) Each individual seeking to heal from cancer (or any other illness, complaint or dis-ease) may react differently to a particular suggested practice. To find out in advance what will work for you, some recommend kinesiological muscle testing and/or dowsing (using a pendulum, see e.g. dowsers.org/lettertorobin) as a quick do-it-yourself method of determining which remedies, supplements, herbs, foods, modalities etc. are or would be positively or negatively affecting your body and health, i.e. are the right or wrong ones for you: “Based on solid science, [kinesiological muscle testing is used] to diagnose food allergies, geopathic and biophysical stress, interference fields, ... to detect stressed organs and structures, emotional blocks , heavy metal toxicity, dental problems, environmental toxicity and more.” The more esoterically- and intuitively-minded and gifted may also find great value in working with their intuition, various divinatory cards ( tarot etc.), dreams (such as asking/intending to receive clear answers to a question stated before falling asleep), and similar means of accessing hidden or inner knowledge, including asking for guidance from the invisible source of goodness, love and help you believe and trust in. (And I have seen various sources recommend to thank in advance for the right and best answer being given, and stress the importance of trust and belief.) To requote Sandy L. (who is successfully healing herself of stage IV ovarian cancer, now seven years in remission) from the Welcome page , “I personally believe, instinctively that the 'cure' (whatever it is), is there [for] everyone of us, that perhaps it is not the same cure for everyone. I prefer to believe that the 'cure' is something attainable and available to everyone. I believe there are many. ‘Seek and Ye shall find.’ [emphasis by Healing Cancer Naturally]That is [also] why I believe in the Dr Johanna Budwig protocol , because it is natural, attainable and inexpensive. After my cancer diagnosis, I was acutely sensitized to a spiritual power who was somehow, in a way difficult to explain, helping me, guiding me and 'in my soul' (so to speak) showing me the path and leading me to my solutions for healing. People were sent to me and it was up to me to recognize this 'help in disguise'.” For much inspiration and to learn about some of the various emotional/intuitive/mental/spiritual ways former cancer patients have used to heal themselves of cancer, see particularly Real-Life Healing Stories , Emotions & Cancer , Healing Cancer & Your Mind incl. The Subconscious Naysayer , Holistic-Energetic Healing Advice on Approaches, Methods & Modalities , Energetics and Spirituality & Cancer Healing . As to various techniques that can be used, some find value in DVDs providing hands-on how-to guidance on the subject of accessing inner knowledge and DIY healing tools, see Mind Power, Mental Influences, Illness & Healing: CDs and DVDs , Energy Healing & Energy Medicine DVDs and others. Note: The following three articles have been moved to their own page. On supplements, intestinal flora, cancer
                    
                    and immune system: It’s not what you
                    
                    ingest, but what you usefully absorb It seems it’s not so much what you ingest that matters, but what you usefully absorb and digest, i.e. effective nutrient supply to your body depends on both your food intake and the quality and effectiveness of your assimilation and digestion. More What to do when the digestive tract has been damaged by chemotherapy “Chemotherapy can destroy a person's stomach lining and the lining of their intestines. When that happens, a person's digestive tract can no longer absorb many of the nutrients in foods and supplements. Many cancer patients die of malnutrition, long before they die of cancer.... More Haelan - fermented soy beverage “the best nutritional food supplement” for cancer patients? Haelan, a high-quality, expensive fermented soy beverage ... costs about $1,500/month if using 1 bottle/day (if ordered by practitioner or health food store)... More Sponsored Links Related section Supplements and Herbs Disclaimer • Welcome • Why Alternatives ? • Alternative Cancer Therapy Guides Johanna Budwig Diet & Protocol • Cancer Causes • Detoxification • Downloads Emotions • Energetics • Geopathic Stress & Cancer • Gerson Therapy Glossary • "Greatest Hits" • Hamer's New Medicine • Healing Cancer Medical History • Juicers & Juicing • Light Healing • Living Love Lothar Hirneise • Healing & Your Mind • Nature Heals Nutrition & Cancer • Ozone • Preventing Cancer Self-Healing Links • Spirituality & Cancer Supplements • Testimonials Thoughts on Healing Write us Home | Contact | Recent Additions | Donations | Support this Site | Alzheimer's Français | Español | Deutsch Copyright © 2004-2012 healingcancernaturally.com and respective authors. Unorthorized republishing of content is strictly forbidden. Each and every breach of copyright will be persued to the fullest extent of the law. U