<http://pilladvised.com/?p=1020>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Supplement Your Knowledge of Omega Fats | pilladvised colds & flu detox eating fitness heart mind & brain other stuff pain relief stay young stomach weight loss pilladvised Supplement Your Knowledge of Omega Fats By Dr. Leo Galland Although the body readily makes most of the fat that  it needs from dietary starch or sugar, humans lack the ability to make  essential fatty acids (EFAs) and must get them from food or dietary supplements . Essential fatty acids come in two distinct families,  based upon their chemical structure. The two EFA families are not  interchangeable and, in fact, tend to compete with one another in the body’s  metabolic pathways. The larger family, called "omega-six"  EFAs, is abundant in many vegetable seed oils, including corn, sunflower and  safflower. Deficiency of omega-six EFAs can cause impairment of growth and  fertility, hormonal disturbances and immunologic abnormalities. But an excess  of omega-six EFAs may promote the development of cancer. People living in North  America and Europe often have relatively high levels of omega-six EFAs in their  diets, because of the increased consumption of vegetable oil. The smaller family, called "omega-three" EFAs, is most concentrated  in fish oils and in flax seed oil. It is also found in green leafy vegetables.  The human brain is rich in omega-three EFAs; their deficiency causes  abnormalities in the development and function of the nervous system as well as  immune defects. Consumption of fish, flaxseed meal and soy beans supplied  omega-three’s for our ancestors. There has been a systematic depletion of omega-three  EFAs from the typical modern diet because of changes in food choices and in techniques  of food processing. Some theorists have traced the origins of numerous  different diseases to a lifetime depletion of omega-three EFAs. Fish oils , the other concentrated source of omega-three’s, have made front page  news because of their potential ability to help prevent disorders as apparently  unrelated to one another as cancer, heart attacks , and migraine headaches , and  to help reverse the effects of conditions as different as psoriasis, ulcerative  colitis , rheumatoid arthritis and cystic fibrosis. Some indications that an EFA deficiency or imbalance are present are: dry skin;  the need to use moisturizing creams and lotions; "chicken skin", the  presence of tiny rough bumps, usually on the back of the arms; dry hair;  dandruff; fraying or brittle nails; menstrual cramps; premenstrual breast  tenderness. Many people in the United States and Europe are short on  omega-three EFAs and could benefit from having omega-three rich foods such as  flaxseed, walnuts or salmon. Research Abstracts on EFA’s: Am J Clin Nutr. 1999 Sep;70(3 Suppl):560S-569S. Essential  fatty acids in health and chronic disease. Simopoulos AP.Center for Genetics,  Nutrition and Health, Washington, DC 20009 cgnh@bellatlantic.net Comment in: Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 Mar;79(3):523-4. Human beings evolved consuming a diet that contained about equal amounts of  n-3 and n-6 essential fatty acids. Over the past 100-150 y there has been an  enormous increase in the consumption of n-6 fatty acids due to the increased  intake of vegetable oils from corn, sunflower seeds, safflower seeds,  cottonseed, and soybeans. Today, in Western diets, the ratio of n-6 to n-3  fatty acids ranges from approximately 20-30:1 instead of the traditional range  of 1-2:1. Studies indicate that a high intake of n-6 fatty acids shifts the  physiologic state to one that is prothrombotic and proaggregatory,  characterized by increases in blood viscosity, vasospasm, and vasoconstriction  and decreases in bleeding time. n-3 Fatty acids, however, have  antiinflammatory, antithrombotic, antiarrhythmic, hypolipidemic, and  vasodilatory properties. These beneficial effects of n-3 fatty acids have been  shown in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, hypertension, type  2 diabetes, and, in some patients with renal disease, rheumatoid arthritis,  ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  Most of the studies were carried out with fish oils [eicosapentaenoic acid  (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)]. However, alpha-linolenic acid, found in  green leafy vegetables, flaxseed, rapeseed, and walnuts, desaturates and  elongates in the human body to EPA and DHA and by itself may have beneficial  effects in health and in the control of chronic diseases. Annu Rev Nutr. 2004;24:597-615. Dietary n-6 and n-3  fatty acid balance and cardiovascular health. Wijendran V, Hayes KC.  Foster Biomedical Research Lab, Brandeis  University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02254, USA. vwijen@brandeis.edu Epidemiological and clinical studies have established that the n-6 fatty  acid, linoleic acid (LA), and the n-3 fatty acids, linolenic acid (LNA),  eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) collectively  protect against coronary heart disease (CHD). LA is the major dietary fatty  acid regulating low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-C metabolism by downregulating  LDL-C production and enhancing its clearance. Further, the available mass of LA  is a critical factor determining the hyperlipemic effects of other dietary fat  components, such as saturated and trans fatty acids, as well as cholesterol. By  contrast, n-3 fatty acids, especially EPA and DHA, are potent antiarryhthmic  agents. EPA and DHA also improve vascular endothelial function and help lower  blood pressure, platelet sensitivity, and the serum triglyceride level. The  distinct functions of these two families make the balance between dietary n-6  and n-3 fatty acids an important consideration influencing cardiovascular  health. Based on published literature describing practical dietary intakes, we  suggest that consumption of ~6% en LA, 0.75% en LNA, and 0.25% en EPA + DHA  represents adequate and achievable intakes for most healthy adults. This  corresponds to an n-6/n-3 ratio of ~6:1. However, the absolute mass of  essential fatty acids consumed, rather than their n-6/n-3 ratio, should be the  first consideration when contemplating lifelong dietary habits affecting  cardiovascular benefit from their intake. March 17, 2010 |
                                        Tags: EFA’s , essential fatty acids , fish oil , flaxseed oil , green leafy vegetables , omega 3 fats , omega six , psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , salmon , soy , ulcerative colitis , vegetable oil , walnuts | No comments » Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) email (will not be published) (required) FDA Warns on Cholesterol Drug Zocor Go Green at Tea Time Get Free Healthy Newsletter! email: Books by Dr. Galland Video: Aspirin and Vitamin C Watch more videos>> Affiliations Popular Posts email: - Copyright © 2008-2011 Applied Nutrition Inc. By  using this website you agree to the Terms an