
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 01:24:33 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.blogdup.com/health/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: qtrans_cookie_test=qTranslate+Cookie+Test; path=/health/; domain=www.blogdup.com
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hemorrhoids «  A Million Wiki Health Tips – By Blogdup.com A Million Wiki Health Tips – By Blogdup.com A million  Health Tips to make your smile 搜索： 分类目录 Acne Aging Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Beauty Cancer Depression Diabetes Fitness Hair Loss Hemorrhoids Insurance Juicing Memory Nutrition Panic Attacks Personal Development Quit Smoking Skin Care Snoring Stress Teeth Whitening Tinnitus Weight Loss Random Posts Get A Second Opinion When You Receive A Diagnosis Of Diabetes An Amazing Guide To Help You Transform Your Body Tips On Eating Right For A Healthy Life! Every Day Tips For Improving Your Memory Worried About Cancer? - Check Out These Facts Help To Keep Your Asthma Under Control With This Great Advice Beauty Techniques and Tips on Maintaining A New Fabulous Look Juicing Secrets They Don't Want You To Know! Hemorrhoids Driving You Crazy? Get Help Here! How To Keep Yourself Younger Looking And Beautiful! Blogroll Blog Directory 功能 登录 RSS Feed Comments RSS Hemorrhoids Put A Stop To Your Hemorrhoids Today! It is highly important to consume enough fiber, in the form of food or supplements. Hard stools can be eliminated by choosing produce with high fiber content, which has the added benefit of increasing overall nutrition levels. Fiber supplementation involving psyillium husks or even linseed might be something to think about. It might seem trivial at first, but a cushion that can be carried around with you will become your best friend when a hemorrhoid breakout occurs. You might not want to use it while you’re working, but when you’re on the way home, or home already, the cushion will help soothe the hemorrhoid pain you’re experiencing. Witch hazel can relieve discomfort and pain caused by hemorrhoids . It has astringent qualities able to reduce the size of, and cut blood flow to the hemorrhoid, prompting healing to begin. Apply witch hazel to a cotton ball then let it set for up to 10 minutes. You can also add it in a sitz bath. Home remedies for hemorrhoids should be considered before spending any money on more expensive treatment options. Soaking in a warm tub for 15 minutes following a bowel movement can help to relax the area. Avoiding scratching the area, as this can worsen the problem. Instead of scratching your hemorrhoids , apply witch hazel to them. Witch hazel will stop the hemorrhoids from itching for a little while. Eat plenty of foods with fiber, and drink a minimum of eight glasses of water a day. This will help eliminate strain from your bowel movements. Consume a good amount of water. This is considered one of the better natural tips to help restrict hemorrhoids , that is out there. Water is effective in preventing constipation, a primary cause of hemorrhoids . In addition, it helps to thoroughly clean out your internal systems. Drink at least one ounce of water for every two pounds you weigh. For example, a 115 pound person should drink at least 57.5 ounces of water per day. Don’t depend on laxatives to solve hemorrhoid problems. These aren’t a magic cure; they are simply a quick way to fix a single bowel movement. You can use laxatives to help you ease the pain of a bowel movement, but you should really treat your hemorrhoids . Though your hemorrhoids are sure to itch, it is essential that you avoid scratching at all costs. Scratching can exacerbate the condition and cause the rectal area to become infected. One alternative to scratching is to use a wet cloth to pat the affected area. Itching is not always a sign of inflammation or swelling. You may just need to clean the area. This is where a wet paper towel or a rag can really bring some much needed relief. Consume a lot of high fiber foods. High fiber foods help to soften stool. You body will be able to rid itself of soft stool with ease, which will help to avoid some of the pain that comes from having a bowel movement when you have hemorrhoids . Eat fruits or take fiber supplements to make it easier to pass stools. Try to take Rutin if you have hemorrhoids . Weak blood vessels can cause hemorrhoids . So, if this happens then you might want to take Rutin, as it helps strengthen your blood vessels and it crucial for absorbing Vitamin C. It is most commonly found in vegetables, such as onions and broccoli, as well as in citrus fruits. It is advisable to take a 500mg supplement of it every day. Hemorrhoid pain and irritation can be reduced by drinking water flavored with a little lemon. Lemons can help you because they thin the bloodstream and reduce inflammation that may be causing you discomfort. Lemon water can improve how you feel. If you are a hemorrhoid sufferer, take stool softeners or laxatives on a regular basis. The harder you have to push to have a bowel movement, the more pain and suffering you will face. Keep your knees elevated and soak in a warm bath. Warm water eases your discomfort by soaking away the irritation and inflammation. Warm water promotes increased blood flow and decreases sharp pain and swelling. Do this as often as necessary, and you will feel better in no time. Eating foods that are rich in fiber and drinking a lot of water will help to make your stool softer and easier to pass. Softer stools can relieve or prevent hemorrhoids because there won’t be as much strain. You can ingest simple fruits,such as melons and papaya, to soften your stool and get it moving. Veggies like okra and cabbage also contain fiber which will help your bowel movements. Try to get plenty of water to increase the ease of your bowel movements. As mentioned earlier, you do not necessarily have to visit a doctor when you’re feeling pain from hemorrhoids . There are techniques to treat them yourself. If you suffer them, there are things you can keep handy to make them not so painful. Use the information in this article and you will have more knowledge about hemorrhoids . wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Get Rid Of Painful Hemorrhoids With These Tips There are simple ways to prevent hemorrhoids , and it’s just a matter of knowing what they are. For example, don’t hold on when you have the need to have a bowel movement. When stool sits in the large intestine, the body continues to absorb water, which can make it difficult to defecate. This straining will aggravate hemorrhoids , so you should avoid doing it. Are you aware of the fact that there are a few products in your kitchen which can aid in relieving some of the commonly associated symptoms of hemorrhoids ? One common home remedy is simply to make a cold pack with ice. Applying an ice pack offers relief from the soreness that hemorrhoids often produces. The prepared ice pack should be placed on the area affected by hemorrhoids . Ice is a natural anti-inflammatory. If you would like to lessen the pain that comes with hemorrhoids and maybe even reduce the swollen veins associated with them, include Vitamin A as part of your diet . One way to get a good dose of vitamin A, which provides relief from hemorrhoids , is to eat carrots or drink carrot juice. You can reduce your hemorrhoid pain if you take a regular enema. Dice about two cloves of garlic and steep them for at least 30 minutes in some water that is boiling hot. Let the mixture cool to room temperature, and use it as you would any enema preparation, which is one time per day. If you have a hemorrhoid, avoid lifting heavy objects. Anything you do that adds more pressure on those swollen veins can cause them to swell more and could make you very uncomfortable. Better personal hygiene can help prevent the formation of external hemorrhoids . Using a combination of quality soft toilet tissue that does not break, and moistening wipes after each bowel movement, can be effective. The high amount of fiber in whole wheat bread can be the perfect food to add to your diet to reduce your hemorrhoids . It also reduces irritation and blotchy skin. By always making the whole grain choice, you will benefit your overall health greatly. If hemorrhoids are causing you great distress, it is important not to rely on laxative drugs to solve constipation. While laxatives can help in a pinch, they are meant for infrequent use. Ongoing constipation issues should be addressed through dietary adjustments. Cleanliness in the anal area is an essential habit to manage hemorrhoids . Consider using moist wipes as a follow up to cleaning with regular tissue. Taking a warm sitz bath will take the pain away. You should soak in it for a minimum of 20 minutes. Here is a simple way to find relief when your hemorrhoids are particularly uncomfortable. One way to relieve the pain is by sitting in a lukewarm sitz bath for about ten minutes, several times each day. Another good way to combat the discomfort of hemorrhoids is apply a cold compress to the area. Drinking plenty of water is a must for those with a history of hemorrhoids . Drinking plenty of water each day softens your stool naturally. In addition, you’ll need to try limiting the amount of caffeine products and alcohol you consume. If you happen to suffer from the discomfort of hemorrhoids , you may want to consider using a stool softener on a regular basis. Straining too hard to have a bowel movement will only cause the pain to worsen. In fact, this may also make you more vulnerable to recurring hemorrhoids . Sitting in a tub filled with warm water is one way to temporarily alleviate hemorrhoid pain. Fill the tub with approximately six inches or more of water at a medium warm temperature. This will greatly reduce the discomfort of hemorrhoidal flareups. Keep your knees up when you sit in the tub. Stay in this position for for an adequate amount of time, waiting until the water starts to cool at least. Caffeine will help keep you awake, and it can also help you with your hemorrhoids . Caffeine will stimulate your bowels and help to soften your stool, and also help to avoid constipation. If you believe you could be experiencing constipation, try taking a walk prior to using the restroom. The physical activity of walking stimulates your body and may make it easier to have a bowel movement. You could stop unnecessary straining that would make your hemorrhoids worse or irritated by doing this. Even fifteen minutes of briskly walking around your neighborhood is enough to help. Now that you have some insight on what to do about hemorrhoids , you can hopefully form some strategies for success that can help you alleviate your problem. Using the information above can be a great starting point for learning how to manage your hemorrhoids and find relief from the pain. wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Ease The Pain Of Hemorrhoids With These Tips Always refrain from scratching hemorrhoids , much as you would with any other type of infection. Scratching them could cause them to bleed and become infected. A torn hemorrhoid can be very painful, and can lead to a serious bacterial infection. When you are fighting nasty hemorrhoids , make sure you do not expose yourself to products derived from essential oils. You should avoid dyes and fragrances, as well since these ingredients can lead to unneeded irritation and horrible inflammation. Even minimal exposure to one of these substances may cause the hemorrhoid to burn or itch. Hemorrhoids can be aggravated if you sit for long periods on the toilet. This low sitting position creates strain on the hemorrhoids , which irritates them and hinders healing. Wait until the point where you’re almost running to the restroom, to ensure you don’t have to strain to pass it. Rutin can help you with your hemorrhoids . Weak blood vessels can cause hemorrhoids . Rutin is a citrus flavonoid and helps vessel health by facilitating vitamin C absorption. It is generally found in citrus fruits, as well as in vegetables, such as broccoli and onions. The most common dosage for over-the-counter supplements is 500 milligrams, taken once daily. Stock up on over-the-counter hemorrhoid treatments, such as creams, ointments, and suppositories. Your local drugstore should stock a wide range of appropriate products. While they cannot eradicate the hemorrhoids , they can numb the area and provide some relief. However, take care not to use treatments of this nature for more than seven days in a row. One way to prevent and reduce the symptoms of hemorrhoids is get plenty of water each day. Being well-hydrated is essential for healthy digestive processes, including bowel movements. Trying to pass unusually hard stools causes hemorrhoids , and is a major source of new hemorrhoids . The general recommendation is to drink 8 ounces of water 8 to 10 times per day in order to have regular bowel movements that are easily passed, greatly reducing your risk of developing or irritating hemorrhoids . Straining to empty your bowels is most likely one of the main contributing factors in the development of hemorrhoids , and can also make existing ones worse. If adding more fiber to your diet is not enough, place your feet on a stepstool during bowel movements. Elevating your knees moves you into a squatting position, making the passing of stool easier. Home remedies for hemorrhoids should be considered before spending any money on more expensive treatment options. Have a warm, 15-minute soak in a sitz bath, which is especially effective after bowel movements. Even though hemorrhoids can be really itchy at times, you should not scratch them, this could aggravate the problem. Applications of witch hazel on a clean pad can be very effective in relieving the itch. Eat plenty of foods with fiber, and drink a minimum of eight glasses of water a day. This will help eliminate strain from your bowel movements. Avoid food that causes gas, because they can cause more pain in hemorrhoids . Passing gas can strain your rectum, causing your hemorrhoids to get more inflamed. This undesirable sensation is sure to follow a meal of gas-inducing food, and therefore it is wise to steer clear of them altogether. An enema can take away the pain. The first step is to add two garlic cloves to two cups of boiled water. Keep in in for about 30 minutes. Allow the water to cool to room temperature before placing it in an enema bag and administering. For pain and swelling relief, try frequently sitting in a warm bathtub. This will increase the amount of blood flowing to the area and can reduce the pain and discomfort. Keep your knees elevated. Allow yourself plentiful sitting time, waiting at a minimum until that water has started dropping in temperature. It is possible to strengthen the area of the anus by an exercise that tenses and releases the muscles there. This will help keep hemorrhoids from developing. If the muscles of your sphincter are not strong enough, the area might not receive proper circulation. In turn, this can lead to hemorrhoids . Take five minutes each day, every three to four hours, to flex your anus muscles, making sure to hold this position for at least five seconds before releasing. Olive oil is a cheap home treatment for hemorrhoids . It may sound odd, but olive oil is proven to relieve some of the swelling associated with hemorrhoids . This reduces itching. Apply the olive oil to the external hemorrhoids only. This remedy isn’t safe for internal use. Many common household items can help to sooth your hemorrhoids . One common home remedy is simply to make a cold pack with ice. Applying an ice pack will help reduce the pain of hemorrhoids . The prepared ice pack should be placed on the area affected by hemorrhoids . Ice is a natural anti-inflammatory. Because you’ve now learned some excellent tips for preventing and treating hemorrhoids , it’s likely that you’re on the right path towards avoiding this very discomforting condition. The preventive measures can result in your permanently putting hemorrhoids in the past. wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Hemorrhoids Can Be Beat If You Use This Advice If you are experiencing discomfort in your rectal or anal areas, you should make an appointment with your physician. This is especially true if you have never had hemorrhoids before. Alleviate your fears over whether you have hemorrhoids or polyps. If you are unsure, you should make an appointment to visit a doctor. Don’t consume spicy foods or caffeine. Consuming these foods can irritate your digestive system and cause your hemorrhoids to worsen. Foods that are very spicy could affect hemorrhoids so badly that they have burning sensation, even when you are out of the restroom. So avoiding them can certainly improve your well-being. If you squat rather than sit while using the restroom, your bowel movements will be easier and less likely to cause problems for your hemorrhoids . While it may feel a little unnatural at first, by squatting, instead of sitting, hemorrhoid pain can be avoided. Manually push hemorrhoids back in the anus when possible More severe hemorrhoids should not be treated in this way, but if you don’t mind doing it for minor hemorrhoids , it can help. Hemorrhoids are better protected inside of the rectum, and therefore, you aren’t as likely to suffer any irritation or bleeding. Understanding what hemorrhoids are is a big part of learning to manage them. Learn as much as you can about hemorrhoids if you are suffering from them. Essentially, it is the swelling, and thus over-sensitivity, of some nerve endings that creates a painful hemorrhoid. To reduce the pain associated with hemorrhoids , try to avoid consuming foods that cause excess gas. Less gas means less strain on the area, which can keep your hemorrhoid pain to a minimum. You will feel that burning discomfort if you eat gas-causing foods, so avoid them. Overexertion during bowel movements causes straining, and this can not only cause hemorrhoids , but it can worsen existing ones. In order to reduce the strain of having a bowel movement, try adding more fiber to your diet . If that doesn’t prove effective, place your feet on a step stool when you’re sitting on the toilet. This makes it easier for you because it puts in a squatting position, which makes it easier for you to pass your bowel movement without as much strain. Feel free to use a hemorrhoid cream, but don’t overdo it. Creams don’t alleviate irritation or swelling, but they can numb hemorrhoid pain. If you are using these longer than a week, talk with your doctor and make sure they are okay with it. Applying them too much can cause extra pain, particularly if applied more often than is allowed. If you’ve ended up with hemorrhoids , consider getting a donut cushion. It is a cushion specifically designed for your butt to provide it the maximum comfort during an episode of hemorrhoids . You just place it where you will sit and plop down on it. It does give relief if your hemorrhoids are very sensitive. It may come as a surprise that warm water can help you get rid of and help your hemorrhoids . Soak your rectum for 10 minutes daily and then try using cold compresses on the inflamed area. Consider purchasing a toilet bath. This can be found in the majority of pharmacies. Stay off the toilet until you are ready to go to the bathroom. You are slightly straining the whole time you’re sitting there. Hemorrhoids can be aggravated by gravity also, so you’ll be more comfortable if you wait to sit down only when needed. Pure aloe vera juice has proven effective for offering relief from constipation or hard stools. If you can’t stand the taste, consider mixing it with some apple juice. Be sure to check out the label of the juice, and don’t drink more than the amount recommended. Drinking more than the recommended amount can cause an upset stomach. Use ice to stop hemorrhoid pain. Hemorrhoids can cause severe pain. An ice pack can reduce both pain and swelling. Also apply heat to the area between using the ice pack. You can decrease the amount of swelling and stinging, by allowing yourself to soak in a tepid sitz bath. Between soaks, apply a homemade ice pack to the affected area. To keep the hemorrhoids from bleeding or being injured, try to gently press them back into the anus. You want to make sure that the hemorrhoids aren’t too big though, because if they are, then this might not work and can hurt. This will keep them from rubbing against your clothing and protect them from injuries. Forcing a large or painful hemorrhoid back in can cause damage. In such cases, it’s best to just leave them alone. Witch hazel can relieve discomfort and pain caused by hemorrhoids . This astringent shrinks the inflamed tissues, promoting healing and alleviating pain and itching. You can soak a cotton ball in witch hazel and apply it to the area for 5-10 minutes, or you can pour some in a sitz bath. The very private nature of hemorrhoids ‘ affected areas makes it very difficult for many adults to openly seek advice from their friends or families. Fortunately, the information that you have just read is sure to answer at least a few of your questions about the symptoms and treatments that are associated with hemorrhoids . wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Tips That Can Help You Deal With Hemorrhoids Many people find that when they are feeling constipated, taking a short walk may be helpful before they use the restroom. Walking can help your body function, while preparing your bowels for a movement. This will lessen the strain of passing the stool which could further irritate your hemorrhoids . Walk for approximately 10-15 minutes at as quick of a pace as possible. Pain from hemorrhoids can be reduced by using an enema. Steeping two diced cloves of garlic in two cups of boiling water for half an hour is the first step. Allow the water to cool to room temperature, and utilize it once daily in an enema. A useful tip to alleviate the problem of hemorrhoids is to increase your fiber intake. Hemorrhoids can be caused by extreme straining while using the bathroom. You can avoid constipation and difficult bowel movements by adding high fiber foods, such as whole grains and fresh fruits and vegetables, to your daily diet . Easy bowel movements lead to a reduction in hemorrhoids . Olive oil is a cheap home treatment for hemorrhoids . It may sound unbelievable, but olive oil can help you relieve the pain and swelling of hemorrhoids . Remember to only apply olive oil to external hemorrhoids . This method of treatment is not for use internally. The main cause of hemorrhoids is overexertion of certain muscles in the anus. If you deal with recurrent hemorrhoids , you should reconsider how your day-to-day activities affect your pain levels. You can treat hemorrhoids with topical creams or home remedies. Spending a few minutes in a lukewarm sitz bath, for instance, can offer some relief form hemorrhoid discomfort. Try to avoid scratching your hemorrhoids . Try using a bit of witch hazel on a cotton pad to help relieve the itch. Try to eat a good amount of fiber, and drink plenty of water every day. This will help eliminate strain from your bowel movements. Utilize a cream; however, avoid using it too much. While creams numb the hemorrhoid pain, they don’t treat the irritation or swelling. If you plan on using the cream beyond seven days, seek medical advice from your physician first. Using these beyond their recommended time allocation can cause additional pain. Drinking an adequate amount of water has been known to prevent hemorrhoids and can help existing ones heal faster. Hydration is an important part of the digestive process. Having hard stools could lead to damaging hemorrhoids , and causing new ones. It is important to drink at least eight glasses of water daily, and this will soften the stools and make them easier to move. Be sure to get enough caffeine so that you can relieve your hormones. Caffeine stimulates the bowels and may help you avoid things like stiff stools and constipation, two of the biggest culprits around when it comes to painful, swollen veins in the rectum. Take a fiber supplement every day, especially if you do not consume many fruits and veggies. Take your supplements regularly and drink at least eight glasses of water every day. Relieve some of the pain caused by hemorrhoids by not eating foods that would give you gas. The strain on the rectum caused by passing gas may inflame your hemorrhoids . Gas-causing food will only cause you burning discomfort, so steer clear of them. Be sure to take your vitamins and keep your nutrition levels high to benefit your overall health and help resolve your hemorrhoids . Supplements and vitamins can help fill in for some of the nutrients you are missing from your usual diet . Venapro is an excellent supplement that can help prevent and reduce symptoms of hemorrhoids . You may get hemorrhoids just from heavy lifting. Heavy lifting strains your body in essentially the same way that you strain when trying hard to have a bowel movement. If you are susceptible to frequent hemorrhoid attacks, it is best that you avoid heavy lifting which will only make them worse. A hemorrhoid pad is a great product you can find in a store. The pads are safe for pretty much anybody to use, sort of like the pads women use when they get their period. You can treat swelling and pain with a paste made from water and powdered myrrh. Combine one teaspoon of water along with one teaspoon of powdered myrrh to make a paste. Gently rub this paste on your hemorrhoids , then let it sit for 30 minutes. You can find powdered myrrh in most beauty stores. Hemorrhoids that itch should never be scratched. Scratching the area of itching hemorrhoids can create soreness and even infection in the area where skin has been damaged by scratching. You may, however, give the area a mild cleansing with a wet washcloth used gently. You may find that the itch is caused more by the area being slightly dirty, so by gently cleansing the area the itch may be eased. Remember these tips the next time you need some relief. Good information leads to you utilizing good medical treatment, and hemorrhoids are no exception. You can alleviate the pain hemorrhoids can cause in your life with everything that you learn and by applying the right kind of strategy. wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Ease Your Hemorrhoids Once And For All You may get hemorrhoids just from heavy lifting. The strain caused by heavy lifting is equivalent to the strain that you exert when forcing a bowel movement. When hemorrhoids are a recurring problem, it is imperative that you find another way to move those heavy objects other than you lifting them. Take Rutin for your hemorrhoids . You can get hemorrhoids because of weak blood vessels. So, if this happens then you might want to take Rutin, as it helps strengthen your blood vessels and it crucial for absorbing Vitamin C. It is found in high concentrations in buckwheat, asparagus, citrus fruits, and cranberries. If you take rutin as a supplement, then you want to take around 500mg a day. Consider the use of medicated creams or ointments to ease your discomfort. You can buy hemorrhoid products at your local drugstore. While they won’t cure hemmorhoids, they’ll provide relief from the burning and itching sensations. You shouldn’t use these for more than about a week. Use a stool softener regularly if you have hemorrhoids . If you are forced to push extremely hard when trying to pass a bowel movement, you are going to cause a great deal of pain and maybe even make yourself more susceptible to even more problems. Use witch hazel for relieving hemorrhoid discomfort and pain. It’s an astringent that can shrink hemorrhoid tissue to provide healing and relief. Use cotton balls to apply witch hazel, and allow it to sit on the affected area for somewhere between 5 and 10 minutes, or simply pour some into your sitz bath. You can use common household items to help relieve hemorrhoid symptoms. An ice pack, for one, is an easy solution. The ice pack can help with decreasing soreness from your hemorrhoids . You can also significantly reduce the painful swelling by treating your hemorrhoids with your hand made ice pack. Dependent on the size and pain level of the hemorrhoid, you could attempt to gently return it to the inside of your body. Gently pushing them back inside the body can reduce hemorrhoid pain caused from sitting for prolonged periods, or from swelling due to irritation. Gently pushing them is important. If you try to do this too hard, you may cause more harm than good. Fiber comes in many forms and can be obtained from supplements if necessary. Fiber supplements are available as powders that are easy to mix with juice or water. They can be purchased almost anywhere. You may reduce your risk of developing hemorrhoids and the pain they cause, by drinking your fiber as part of your daily routine. If you are not sure you have a hemorrhoid, it is important you see a doctor. It might be difficult to determine if it is a hemorrhoid or a polyp. You want to make sure you are not causing yourself any unnecessary panic. Visit your physician for a quick check if you cannot tell for sure. Drinking aloe juice can help loosen your stools and make it easier to make a bowel movement. Some people do not like the taste, but it goes down easier if mixed with apple juice. Make sure that you read the label and only drink the recommended amount. Drinking too much Aloe Vera juice can cause stomach discomfort. Give some natural remedies a try before you spend money on pricey hemorrhoid treatments. Spending a few minutes in a lukewarm sitz bath, for instance, can offer some relief form hemorrhoid discomfort. Although hemorrhoids can be extremely itchy, avoid scratching, as this can exacerbate the problem. Instead of scratching your hemorrhoids , apply witch hazel to them. Witch hazel will stop the hemorrhoids from itching for a little while. Be sure to drink plenty of water daily, and eat lots of high fiber foods. This will help eliminate strain from your bowel movements. Caffeine will help keep you awake, and it can also help you with your hemorrhoids . Caffeine stimulates bowels, and can prevent hard stools and constipation, which are two culprits that can cause swollen, painful rectal veins. When consumed often, certain healthy foods lower your chances of developing hemorrhoids . These include products made with whole grains, fresh fruits and veggies, and unsalted nuts. A simple, balanced diet can also help to alleviate some of the symptoms of an existing hemorrhoids condition. If you are suffering through a bout of hemorrhoids , you should think about getting a donut cushion for your comfort. This is designed for your bottom to give it the most comfort while having to sit down with hemorrhoids . It is far more comfortable to sit on a doughnut cushion than on a regular cushion. There are some laxatives that you shouldn’t rely on if you do suffer from hemorrhoids . Laxatives are designed with a single bowel movement in mind. If you experience problems with persistent bowel movements, you should change your current diet . This will assist you in maintaining steady, regular bowel movements. Again, you should be able to treat hemorrhoids at home. In most cases, it’s not necessary to see your doctor for help. By keeping the things you need in your house, you can make sure the attacks aren’t as bad. Use the suggestions in the article above to help you find relief at home. wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Hemorrhoids Can Be Awful If You Do Not Use These Tips Most hemorrhoids are caused by overexerting the sphincter muscles and the muscles around them. Therefore, if you suffer from hemorrhoids , you must be careful with your diet and any activities that cause stress to this area of the body. If you have hemorrhoids , increase the amount of fiber in your diet . Heavy straining during a bowel movement tends to cause hemorrhoids to develop. You can avoid constipation and difficult bowel movements by adding high fiber foods, such as whole grains and fresh fruits and vegetables, to your daily diet . Include a variety of fiber-rich foods in your diet to prevent hemorrhoids . Stay hydrated. Few tips are as effective and affordable as this one! Drinking plenty of water can keep you from becoming constipated, which will then help you to avoid hemorrhoids . In addition, it helps to thoroughly clean out your internal systems. You should strive to drink a minimum of 10 glasses of water per day. Add more fiber rich foods to your diet . Some foods that are full of fiber are fruits and vegetables, whole grains, brown rice, and seeds. Eating a simple, balanced diet will make things more comfortable for you. It’s recommended you have a sitz bath every single time a bowel movement occurs, if you suffer from hemorrhoids . This will take the itchiness and irritation away. When you’re done taking a bath, see to it that you dry your anal area by patting as opposed to rubbing it. Occasionally, you can use a cream on your hemorrhoids . It may help lessen the pain of hemorrhoids , but may not help with the irritation or swelling. Ask your doctor about how often you should use these creams. Do not use any products in a manner for which they were not intended. Follow all directions carefully to avoid exasperating your condition. For all-natural relief from the discomfort of hemorrhoids , try a homemade enema. Dice about two cloves of garlic and steep them for at least 30 minutes in some water that is boiling hot. Allow the water to cool to room temperature. Use this mixture as an enema once a day. While a nasty case of hemorrhoids may seem like the end of the world, relief is just around the corner. Try sitting in a bath of sitz for 10 minutes, several times each day. You might also feel better if you apply cold compresses in the affected area. Believe it or not, warm water helps to relieve and treat hemorrhoids . Sit in lukewarm water for up to ten minutes per day, then apply a cool compress to the area. Ingredients for a sitz bath can be purchased from drugstores and at many grocery stores. Go see your doctor to make sure you have hemorrhoids . Bleeding from the rectum can be indicative of more urgent problems, such as cancer. Get your condition diagnosed by a doctor so you can stop worrying. Your doctor can tell you the exact cause of your rectal bleeding. Hopefully, it’s nothing more serious than hemorrhoids ; if so, your doctor can prescribe a medication or other treatment for you. Consuming daily supplements and vitamins could help you in managing your hemorrhoids . Supplements and vitamins could fill voids in nutrition that is not filled by your diet alone. Some people recommend Venapro as a product that aids in preventing and reducing hemorrhoids . Even though your hemorrhoids itch, you should resist scratching them. Scratching can damage delicate tissue surrounding the hemorrhoid, and also leave an opening for infection. If you really cannot bear the itch any longer, dampen a cloth and lightly pat the area, so that it is cleansed. The itching may be caused by the area being unclean, so cleaning the area should reduce the amount of itching. Sit in a warm tub with your knees raised. The warmth from the water can alleviate hemorrhoid pain, irritation, and swelling. Slightly warm water helps blood flow to the affected area, keeping pain and swelling to a minimum. You can do this treatment as often as you like for immediate relief. Incorporating Vitamin A into your diet is a great way you can work to alleviate pain associated with hemorrhoids . It can even work to reduce the size of the swollen veins. Carrots have tons of vitamin A in them, so eating them or drinking their juice is a fast way to get the amount needed to fight hemorrhoids . Gently push any hemorrhoids back into the anus. If they are not too large they may slip back inside easily. This will stop them from rubbing into your clothing and it will minimize possible injury. You should truly check the size of the hemorrhoids though, because the last thing you want is to injure yourself further and cause yourself more pain. Hemorrhoids can show up unexpectedly, and they are certainly never wanted, but thankfully there are many strategies you can use to minimize the inflammation and pain. The many tips outlined in the article above can help you successfully prevent and treat hemorrhoids . While hemorrhoids may be a condition that cures itself on its own, proper treatment is recommended if you want them to quickly clear up. wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Do Not Let Hemorrhoids Slow You Down Don’t be embarrassed to use a cushion that goes with you everywhere to make sitting more comfortable. You might not want to use it while you’re working, but when you’re on the way home, or home already, the cushion will help soothe the hemorrhoid pain you’re experiencing. Many people swear by tomato slices as a means of treating hemorrhoids . The acidity of tomatoes allows the tomatoes to reduce swelling when applied directly to your hemorrhoids . You may find that doing this technique, combined with a balanced diet , is a great way to provide lasting relief from hemorrhoids . Include plenty of fiber in your diet . Fiber will assist in keeping your stools soft. This allows you to use less force on the commode, therefore minimizing pain and discomfort that occurs with straining and pushing. Fruits and fiber supplements are a few examples of the kinds of foods that might soften your stool. Hemorrhoids feel like chicken pox around your anus, and you should not scratch them. Scratching will only serve to create tears and fissures. A torn hemorrhoid can be very painful, and can lead to a serious bacterial infection. Add a bit of lemon to any water you drink; this can help relieve the hemorrhoid pain you may be experiencing. Irritation from hemorrhoids can be soothed by lemon juice. Consume lemon water on a regular basis to help control your hemorrhoids . For all-natural relief from the discomfort of hemorrhoids , try a homemade enema. You’ll have to soak two diced-up cloves of garlic in two cups of hot, boiling water for half an hour. Allow the water to reach room temperature, and then use it as an enema once daily. One remedy that will help out with hemorrhoids is witch hazel. You can purchase this tonic at most any pharmacy store in your local area. Witch hazel should be applied to the inflamed area in small measures, and the acidity in the product will help minimize any swelling and bleeding. If you’re afflicted with hemorrhoids , take sitz baths immediately after bowel movements. Sitting in this sitz bath will help to relieve the pain and inflammation associated with hemorrhoid flare-ups. Once you finish taking the bath, pat your rectum dry instead of rubbing it. There are many effective hemorrhoid pads on the market, and they are readily available at all drug stores. These pads can be safely used by practically anyone. They are no more difficult to use than the sanitary pads women use monthly. To stop the pain from hemorrhoids , use ice. Hemorrhoids can be extremely painful. Prepare an ice pack for the area, to relieve some of the swelling and accompanying pain. Use ice and warm compresses alternately. Soaking in a lukewarm tub and then switching to a cold compress, is a good way to ameliorate the discomfort and swelling caused by hemorrhoids . An important way to manage your hemorrhoid issue is to prevent yourself from lingering too long on the toilet as you attempt to move your bowels. Being in this low sitting position could cause undue tension on your hemorrhoids , aggravating them and troubling the healing process. It may seem obvious but, it is best to only go to the toilet when you know you are ready to use it. Lifting heavy objects can possibly cause hemorrhoids . It puts strain on your body just like bowel movements do. If you experience hemorrhoids frequently, try to avoid any heavy lifting. Any symptoms you have that may be caused by hemorrhoids should be checked out by a physician. Sometimes its hard to tell the exact difference between polyps and hemorrhoids , and this can create panic for you. If you’re in doubt about the identification of a possible hemorrhoid, your best course is to get some sound medical advice. Grape seed oil can help reduce the amount of swelling and pain that comes with hemorrhoids . This helps your body fight off infections and helps to reduce or eliminate hemorrhoidal bleeding. Surprisingly, water can be very effective in treating and soothing hemorrhoids . Soak in lukewarm water for ten minutes after passing a bowel movement and use a cold wet towel to reduce the inflammation. You may want to try using a toilet bath; they can be easily found in your local pharmacy. Steer clear of spicy food and caffeine. Your intestines are bothered by all of these, and this doesn’t help hemorrhoids at all. Spicy foods are notorious for the burning sensation that they can cause during bowel movements, so they should definitely be off-limits to those with hemorrhoids . Stay hydrated. This is potentially the simplest way to prevent hemorrhoids from occurring. When you are constipated, one of the primary reasons is dehydration, so water can fix it. It also helps to cleanse and detoxify your body. Drink ten glasses a day, or more. As stated from the above article, hemorrhoids are a common occurrence over the final 6 months of pregnancy, and can worsen when you begin to push due to the labor. Hemorrhoids are easily prevented by taking measures like staying hyrdated and eating enough fiber. Take the advice you have learned here to heart and reduce your chances of developing hemorrhoids . wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Suffering From Painful Hemorrhoids? Try These Ideas When you have hemorrhoids , avoid laxatives. Those products can only help with one movement, and do not address the root of the problem. Persistent bowel troubles may mean it is time to alter your diet so as to achieve more regularity. Much like chicken pox or other skin irritations, hemorrhoids can cause great exasperation due to their itchiness. Scratching will only serve to create tears and fissures. This will make your condition even more painful, and an infection could quickly follow. One hygienic practice to prevent hemorrhoids developing is rather simple. When you have to defecate, don’t ignore it. The longer the stool stays in the large intestine, then your body will reabsorb more water, which means the stool will get harder causing you to strain more for elimination purposes. Straining can make hemorrhoids worse, so you want to try not to do this. You can reduce irritation and pain by making a paste with water and powdered myrrh. Mix equal parts powdered myrrh and water for a paste that will ease pain and swelling. Place the paste onto the hemorrhoids , and allow it to remain there for 30 minutes. You can find powdered myrrh at most health stores. If you are suffering through a bout of hemorrhoids , you should think about getting a donut cushion for your comfort. These cushions have a hollowed out center that prevents pressure on hemorrhoids . Sitting on a donut cushion will provide you with much greater comfort than any other surface. For those having trouble adding more fiber to your diet , consider a fiber supplement. You can get powdered fiber to mix into liquids. They are available at most drug stores. Having one of these drinks every day will make you less likely to get hemorrhoids . If you don’t know whether you’ve got a hemorrhoid, see a doctor. Sometimes its hard to tell the exact difference between polyps and hemorrhoids , and this can create panic for you. Going to your doctor will have the problem solved faster. When you’re suffering from hemorrhoids , it’s best to avoid caffeine and overly spicy foods. These food items can cause irritation in your stomach, which in turn, could cause hemorrhoids to worsen. Spicy food could cause your hemorrhoids to inflame and burn, so avoid it. Avoid foods that cause constipation or gas to reduce the pressure on your hemorrhoids . The strain you put on your rectum to pass gas can easily cause your hemorrhoids to become inflamed. One result is an uncomfortable burning sensation. You can avoid that sensation by avoiding these particular foods. Many common household items can help to sooth your hemorrhoids . One simple remedy is an old-fashioned ice pack. The ice pack can help with decreasing soreness from your hemorrhoids . A chilled ice pack can be applied to the area, reducing swelling and offering some relief from the pain. If you notice that your hemorrhoids are no longer held within your body, you should try to very gently push them back inside of your body. Wash your hands before doing this, as dirty hands can infect or inflame hemorrhoids . If you have experienced an emerging hemorrhoid and, at least temporarily, pushed it back inside, it is important that you immediately consult with your doctor. Drink plenty of water. This is considered one of the better natural tips to help restrict hemorrhoids , that is out there. Staying hydrated is important, because constipation is a cause of hemorrhoids . Water also flushes out your system, clearing out toxins. Drink a minimum of eight glasses of water each day. You can use ice to ease hemorrhoid pain. Hemorrhoids can result in extreme pain. Prepare an ice pack for the area, to relieve some of the swelling and accompanying pain. Alternating cool treatments with warm ones provides maximum relief. You can also use this technique while taking a warm bath. Simply bring an ice pack with you, and alternate between sitting in the tub and sitting on the ice pack. This can help to relieve the discomfort caused by the pain, swelling and itchiness of hemorrhoids . You can avoid inflammation and injuries by keeping your hemorrhoids protected inside of your anus. If the hemorrhoids aren’t too big, you might be able to push it them back inside. This prevents them from getting damaged due to friction from your clothing or objects you might sit on. If your hemorrhoids are too large and hurt really badly, don’t attempt doing this and risk serious injury. As this article has shown, a variety of treatments are available for treating problem symptoms of hemorrhoids . Unless there’s an extreme case of hemorrhoids , surgery is typically not recommended. If you are able to identify possible causes and triggers of your hemorrhoids , you may be able to avoid or reduce recurrent problems. wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Helpful Advice For Preventing And Treating Hemorrhoids Do some anus exercises to help you prevent hemorrhoids . If you do not use these muscle often, the blood flow to them may be restricted. This lowered blood flow can cause hemorrhoids . This exercise involves alternately tensing and relaxing the muscles around the anus. Do it as often as necessary to strengthen these muscles. Incorporating Vitamin A into your diet is a great way you can work to alleviate pain associated with hemorrhoids . It can even work to reduce the size of the swollen veins. You can get a great deal of Vitamin A just by consuming carrots or carrot juice, and you will notice a positive effect on your hemorrhoids . It will often be caused by the hemorrhoids , but it is safe to have it checked regardless. Bloody stools or rectal bleeding can also signify more serious conditions, including cancer. Ease your worries by having a physician diagnose the problem. Your physician will help you choose the best treatment. To help with inflammation and pain caused from hemorrhoids , use grape seed oil. This will naturally kill infections in your veins and stop hemorrhoid bleeding. A great product you can use if you have a hemorrhoid is witch hazel. This is an astringent you can get at your local pharmacy, or even at any larger store in your area. When it’s applied to the afflicted area in some small doses, it can help reduce the bleeding and swelling. Eat foods that are high in fiber. Fiber will assist in keeping your stools soft. Softer stools let you use less force when going to the bathroom, and will help minimize any pain or discomfort you may feel when pushing. You may be able to make your stool softer by consuming fiber supplements and fruits. Many people have discovered that if you use tomato slices, it could help decrease the size of your hemorrhoids . The acid from the tomato can reduce the swelling that has occurred in the vein. You will be able to keep your hemorrhoids under control when you use them with a health diet . Many hemorrhoids are caused by overexerting sphincter muscles, causing chronic irritation. This is why, if you repeatedly have hemorrhoids , you should not exert too much force in daily life. Good hydration is important for anyone who tends to suffer from hemorrhoids . Hydration will help prevent constipation, and keep your stools soft. Also, you will want to limit your consumption of caffeine products, as well as alcohol. If you are constipated, a walk may help. Walking can help your body function, while preparing your bowels for a movement. Doing this will help you to be able to avoid straining that is unnecessary and that often results in irritation of the hemorrhoids . Make your walk about 10-15 minutes and as brisk as you can. A lot of people become surprised when they discover that something as simple as water can soothe their hemorrhoids . Soak the anal region in a warm bath for 10 minutes per day, and apply a cold compress made by soaking a towel in cold water. There are toilet baths that you can buy in any drug store. Try to take Rutin if you have hemorrhoids . Weakened blood vessels can cause hemorrhoids . So, if this happens then you might want to take Rutin, as it helps strengthen your blood vessels and it crucial for absorbing Vitamin C. It is found in high concentrations in buckwheat, asparagus, citrus fruits, and cranberries. It is advisable to take a 500mg supplement of it every day. Waiting a long time on the toilet, until a bowel movement passes, can make hemorrhoids worse. By sitting in such a low, unsupported manner over cold water, your hemorrhoids will become angry and inflamed. Before you go to the restroom, wait for the urge to hit. Keeping the rectal cavity free of dirt is important if you have hemorrhoids . Using a baby wipe or other type of cleansing towelette meant for the bathroom will feel better on your painful skin and will do a great job at cleaning you. A sitz bath that’s warm can soothe swelling and pain from hemorrhoids . Soak in the bath for 20 minutes or more. Take a comfortable pillow with you if you’re planning on sitting for any length of time. You might feel a bit shy about using your special cushion at work, but you should definitely use it in your car and in your chair at home. It will bring you a lot of relief. Hemorrhoids can appear if too much pressure is applied to your lower body. The increased pressure from the weight of your fetus and pushing the baby out is what causes them. If you use the above information, you can lower the frequency and symptoms of hemorrhoids . wiki By wiki health on %x %A | Hemorrhoids Older entries A Million Wiki Health Tips – By Blo