<http://firstaid.edublogs.org/?p=54>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 18:27:17 +0000
Cache-Control: max-age=300, must-revalidate

Treating Burns and Wounds with Honey first aid Just another Edublogs.org weblog Home About RSS Getting started This sidebar explains how you can quickly get going Read and then replace with Widgets (see below) Uploading your avatars As an edublogs user you have a blog avatar and a user avatar Upload a blog avatar here and a user avatar here Changing your header Go to Presentation > Custom Image Header to upload and crop a new header image Changing your sidebars Now... configure your sidebars by visiting Presentation Widgets Simply drag and drop the widgets you want to the sidebars you want them in ← Home Remedies for Burns How to treat minor cuts → Treating Burns and Wounds with Honey November 3rd, 2009 · No Comments · Uncategorized There are many different kinds of burns. Burns can be caused by heat, cold, steam, light, radiation, friction, electric, chemicals, the sun, etc. With any type of burn, there is damage to the skin which is, in essence, a wound that needs to be healed and repaired during proper treatment. You can treat these minor burn and wounds with help of honey naturally. Usually, 20 ml of honey is enough on a 10 cm X 10 cm (4 inch X 4 inch) dressing. The honey dressings should be cut to a size that extends beyond the edges of the wound. To prevent honey oozing out from the wound dressing, waterproof dressings are needed. Absorbent dressings are not recommended as they soak the honey making it less effective. Adhesive tape or bandages can be used to hold the dressings in place. It is better to spread the honey on the dressing first before applying it on the wound area. If there are abscesses in the wound area, fill it with honey before applying the dressing pad, so that there is honey in contact with the wound. The amount of honey required on the wound depends on the amount of fluid it exudes. Honey will be useless if it is diluted by large amounts of fluid. Also the frequency of dressing changes depends on how fast the honey is being diluted by fluid. On deeper infections, more honey is required to get an effective antibacterial activity. Daily dressing changes up to three times daily may be needed. Exudation of fluid should be reduced after few days use of honey dressing. During this time, less dressing changes will be needed. Tags: how to treat burns No Comments so far ↓ There are no comments yet...Kick things off by filling out the form below. Leave a Comment (Cancel) Name Mail Website Anti-spam word: (Required) * To prove you're a person (not a spam script), type the security word shown in the picture. Latest Posts Treating Minor Burns at Home Minor Burn Care Things that should be in a First Aid Bag Basic Workplace Safety Tips Basic First Aid Tips Blogroll Edublogs Campus Edublogs Help and Support Edublogs.org Personal Injury Claim The Campus The Edublogger Archives December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 Meta Register Log in Create another blog Edublogs.org Edublogs Support Edublogs Campus © 2012  first aid — Sitemap — Cutline by Chris Pearson Powered by WordPress MU Hosted by Edublogs.org Edublogs Home 