
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:15:15 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Procedures  ::  Art Of Dentistry Give us your phone number and we will call you back HOME PRACTICE PROCEDURES DOCTORS SMILE GALLERY LOCATIONS MEDIA CONTACT Cleaning and Prevention Fluoride Treatments Fluoride is a naturally-occurring mineral that can reduce cavities in children and adults in optimal levels. Fluoride can also help repair the early stages of tooth decay even before decay is visible. We offer topical fluoride treatment to patients that require it. Tooth Desensitization Hypersensitivity of exposed root surfaces can be easily and quickly treated by applying materials to these areas. This treatment blocks dentin tubules (tunnels that exist in the root surface) or attempts to decrease the activation of certain nerve fibers. Soft Tissue Management This individualized plan may include multiple appointments to eliminate infection of the gums and root surfaces. Periodontal disease is an infectious and inflammatory disease that destroys gum tissues and bone. Our therapeutic appointments include scaling (removing tartar and plaque from teeth), rootplaning (detoxifying and smoothening the roots), and chlorhexidene oral irrigation (flushing out the pockets with an antibacterial agent. Local anaesthetic is available to make the appointment(s) more comfortable. Oral Hygiene Instruction Using computer software, intra-oral camera and a hands-on approach, we help to educate and train patients to control plaque levels in their mouths. We have the most current oral hygiene aids to customize the regimen for most patients, including powered toothbrushes, proxy brushes, floss, flossthreaders, etc. Preventative Maintenance Appointments Regular dental exams are intended to catch developing dental problems before they escalate and to prevent existing problems from getting worse. We do more than protect and care for your smile; we can also help to keep you healthy. Through the oral exam, we can see if there are any abnormalities in your mouth that may indicate health problems, such as diabetes or oral cancer. Pit and Fissure Sealants The top surfaces of the teeth are not smooth and flat, but have tiny hills and valleys where plaque can build up and cause tooth decay. To prevent this from occurring in the pits and fissures, these areas can be sealed with a special material. This quick and painless procedure is a common part of preventive dentistry that we provide to our patients that it is indicated for. Tweet Web Design Toronto by Cosmetic Dentistry Dental Bonding Dental Implants Porcelain Veneers Restorations Invisalign Laser Dentistry Cleaning and Prevention Teeth Whitening Crowns General Our Team Careers S