
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 19:23:12 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

Wound-care champion helps heal colleague's pressure ulcer CORRECTED VERSION | OMNI Health Care | Nursing Homes & Long Term Care | Ontario | Canada | OMNINews Wound-care champion helps heal colleague's pressure ulcer CORRECTED VERSION Debra Hannan speaks to value of thinking outside the box November 22, 2011 -- Deron Hamel Healing pressure ulcers on residents who move into Woodland Villa is nothing new for registered practical nurse Debra Hannan, however, she recently took on a new challenge — helping to heal a skin lesion on a colleague's foot. And what was the secret to healing this Stage 3 ulcer? According to Hannan, it all comes down to being open-minded and thinking outside the box. "There are other options out there that we can look at," Hannan tells the OMNIway , adding that often trying new things can make a big difference. Once again, the Woodland Villa wound-care team used Nitro-Dur patches, an innovative idea Hannan and the Cornwall-area long-term care home's wound-care team came up with a couple of years ago, along with Medihoney dressings, a recent addition to the wound-care best practices OMNI Health Care homes are using. Nitro-Dur patches are normally used to augment blood flow in people who have angina. The patches foster vasodilation — widening of blood vessels — which improves blood flow. Healthy blood flow is a critical factor in helping wounds heal. When placed near a skin ulcer, blood flow is increased, which accelerates healing time. As with every time the team moves forward with an idea to treat a wound, the home's physician gave permission to use the Nitro-Dur patches and Medihoney products, which contain leptospermum honey, an ingredient that helps facilitate the healing process, when treating the staff member's foot. "The (patches and Medihoney) made a significant difference and the wound has gone on to heal," says Hannan. In this situation, Medihoney products were suggested by the physician, and Hannan says the products used made a "significant difference" in helping the wound heal. If you have a story you would like to share with the OMNIway, please contact the newsroom at 800-294-0051, ext. 23, or e-mail deron(at)axiomnews.ca. If you have any feedback on this story, please contact the newsroom at 800-294-0051, ext. 23, or e-mail deron(at)axiomnews.ca. * This version corrects an earlier version that states Nitro-Dur patches are placed on pressure ulcers. Nitro-Dur patches are never placed on pressure ulcers, but rather near them during treatment. Share | Print this story E-mail to a friend Sign up for our Newsletter Submit a story idea Back to News Related Stories: There are currently no related stories. View Recent Stories View Archived Stories Home | Who We Are | The Way We Care | Long Term Care | Our Homes | News & Events | Careers | Site Map Design By Platinum Print Manageme