
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 18:32:08 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   »  Flu Prevention With Acupuncture And Natural Remedies Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s Flu Prevention With Acupuncture And Natural Remedies November 30th, 2011 Eating steamed pears, cheese, yogurt, and honey, having warm drinks made with ginger or lemon and having a soothing massage are a few of the natural remedies used by people to ward off or treat influenza. For flu prevention, acupuncture can boost the body’s immune system. Many countries fail to meet the 75 percent annual influenza vaccination rate recommended by the World Health Organization. Many people who choose not to be vaccinated are more likely to rely on natural health practices, together with good general health and hygiene, than those who decide to be vaccinated. People make the decision to be vaccinated if they: Feel their existing health conditions make them vulnerable, view flu as contagious and dangerous and have experienced no previous vaccination side effects. People who do not have the flu vaccine say they: Don’t see themselves as vulnerable, feel less convinced that the vaccine is effective and feel that it is sufficient to take preventative measures. Many of the latter rely on natural remedies, a healthy lifestyle, regular exercise, a good diet, and keeping warm to protect themselves from flu. Looking for an alternative to the flu vaccine? Acupuncture for flu prevention can help keep your immune system functioning well by giving your body a rest from the stresses that can make you more vulnerable. Stay healthy and strong over the winter months with acupuncture, which treats your underlying constitutional weaknesses. Benefits of acupuncture for flu prevention and treatment: · A safe, non-toxic therapy. · Treats flu symptoms without antibiotics. · Is calming and healthful. · Treats the whole person. It is important to receive acupuncture prior to experiencing flu symptoms, as this makes treatment more effective. However, if symptoms occur, immediate acupuncture therapy is recommended. For information about acupuncture for the prevention and treatment of flu call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician, at (305) 595-9500. c Acupuncture , Health & Fittness | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr