
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 07 Mar 2012 07:05:30 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Exercises For Lower Back Pain: Exercises For Sciatica | Love Handles Yoga >> Yoga Exercises >> Exercises For Lower Back Pain Follow Lower back pain is something that almost everybody experiences. The stress that we face everyday in our lives, coupled with the lack of exercise and poor posture can cause tension in the lower back. Continued tension in the muscles of the lower back can cause chronic pain, which makes it very difficult for us to perform our day-to-day activities. People who suffer from degenerative diseases like osteoarthritis experience back pain frequently. Those suffering from spondylitis and sciatica also experience excruciating pain in their lower back. This makes working extremely difficult. There is a general conception that those who suffer from pain in the lower back should get rest and limit their activity for the muscles to heal. However, this may in fact complicate things even more. If the back muscles are tense or inflamed, back pain exercises are an effective way of treating them. These exercises improve the blood flow to these muscles and allow them to heal. In addition to that, the contraction and expansion mechanism of the muscles is enhanced when a person performs these exercises, allowing the muscles to release the tension and become strengthened. There are specific exercises for sciatica, spondylitis, and other conditions that cause pain in the lower back. These exercises not only help relieve your pain but also help the muscles in the lower back recover faster from any future injuries and decrease the risk of getting disabled from the pain in the lower back . However, though exercises are good for strengthening your back muscles, it is important to take the doctor’s advice before you begin exercising. There are specific exercises for love handles , lower back, waist, and upper back . All these exercises can be performed in sequences, in order to keep the entire back healthy and pain-free. Here are some simple exercises that you can perform at home. Keep in mind that you don’t even need any special equipment for these. 1.Lie flat on your back, touching your chin to your chest. Bring your knees closer to the chest and for hold for about 15 seconds. Repeat this 5 times. 2.Turn around so that you are lying on your stomach. Now, using your arms, push the upper part of your body off the floor, allowing your back to relax. Hold this pose for about 5 seconds and repeat 5 times. These are two simple exercises that can keep your lower back healthy. Simply put aside ten minutes each morning for these and you will feel the back pain begin to decline. Submitted on February 20, 2010 Follow Related Articles Back Pain Massage | Relaxation Massage | Shiatsu Back Massage Back pain is one of the most common complaints in this day and age. Back pain can be caused due to a Relieve Back Pain Stress Relief | Low | Upper | Sciatica Back Pain Causes of back pain: Most of us suffer from stress back pain at some point of time in our lives. The Low Back Pain Exercises Yoga Stretching Upper Back Neck Pain A majority of the population is affected by back pain at some point in their lives. It is also one Exercises Sciatica Specific Exercises Overcome Sciatica Sciatica is a set of symptoms that is caused due to the irritation or compression of the nerves in Back Pain Treatment Medication | Relief | Exercises | Middle |Upper | Lower Back Pain Back Pain MedicationChoosing back pain medication largely depends on the kind of problem you have. Features Archive 10 Tips To Motivate Yourself To Get Off The Couch And Start Yoga Exercises - Jul, 2009 Sun Salutation (Surya Namaskar) :: Poster For Step By Step Instructions - Mar, 2009 Yoga Exercises for Winter Care to keep you Fit and Healthy - Feb, 2009 Related Topics Back Strengthening Exercises | Yoga Lower Back Pain Yoga Lower Back Pain | Lower Back Pain Relief Exercises Yoga Routine Slip Disc Yoga Exercise Lower Back Pain Asanas Back Pain Poses | Pranayama | Vinyasa | Postures Back Pain Yoga back pain crossing legs Newsletter Sign-up Subscribe eBooks Related Yoga Information yoga teacher training yoga for fat people bloating after eating pranayama yoga half moon pose Get Current News Exercises For Lower Back Pain Lower Back Exercises Lower Back Pain Relief Follow us on Copyright © 2011 Waterfront Media, Inc. Terms of Use | Sitemap The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy . Search: Yoga | Logi