Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dementia,
    Information On Dementia,Causes Of Dementia, 
    Symptoms Of Dementia,Treatment Of Dementia home about
                  us contact
                  us query
                  form site
                  map site
                  faqs Psychological Disorders Acute Stress Disorder ADHS Adjustment Disorder Agoraphobia Alzheimer Disease Amnestic Disorders Antisocial Disorder Asperger's Syndrome Autism Avoidant Disorder Binge Eating Disorder Body Dysmorphic Disorder Borderline Disorder Breathing Sleep Disorder Bulimia Nervosa Disintegrative Disorder Cognitive Disorder Delirium Delusional Disorder Dementia Dependent  Disorder Depersonalization Disorder Depression Disruptive Behavior Dyslexia General Anxiety Disorder Huntington's Disease Learning Disabilities Malingering Mental Retardation Mixed Receptive Disorder Narcissistic Disorder Narcolepsy Nightmare Disorder Obsessive Compulsive Oppositional Defiant Pain Disorder Panic Disorder Paranoid Personality Parkinson's Disease Rett's Syndrome Tourette's Syndrome INDIA HEALTH VISIT Visit India the world’s most Affordable, safe, and Reliable Medical Tourism destination MORE.... Health And Fitness Medical Tourism India Destination India Tour Packages Dementia INFORMATION ON DEMENTIA Dementia  syndrome is a   descriptive term for a collection of symptoms caused by a number of disorders   affecting the brain. Dementia, a progressive brain dysfunction, leads to a   gradually increasing restriction of daily activities. It leads to significantly   impaired intellectual functioning that interferes with normal activities and   relationships. Affected people lose their ability to solve problems and maintain   emotional control, like thinking and orientation and may experience personality   changes, social act and behavioral problems, such as agitation, delusions, and   hallucinations; lack of comprehension, calculation, learning capacity, language   and judgment. Memory loss is a common symptom of dementia. There is also   impairment of thinking and of reasoning capacity, and a reduction in the flow of   ideas. The processing of incoming information is impaired, in that the   individual finds it increasingly difficult to attend to more than one stimulus   at a time, such as taking part in a conversation with several persons, and to   shift the focus of attention from one topic to another. Many diseases can   lead to dementia, most important being "Alzheimer's disease". Dementia not only   affects patients, but also those surrounding them, as most patients require care   in the long-term. CAUSES OF DEMENTIA 1. Alzheimer’s disease or   Huntington’s disease 2. Vascular dementia (or multi-infarct dementia),   including Binswanger's disease 3. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) 4.   Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), including Pick's disease 5.   Frontotemporal dementia (or frontal variant FTLD) 6. Semantic dementia (or   temporal variant FTLD) 7. Progressive non-fluent aphasia 8. It can also   be a consequence of: 9. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease 10. Huntington's   disease 11. Parkinson's disease 12. HIV infection (leading to AIDS   dementia complex) 13. Head trauma 14. Down's syndrome 15.   Hypothyroidism 16. Vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency 17. Vitamin B12,   Vitamin A deficiency 18. Depressive pseudodementia 19. Normal pressure   hydrocephalus SYMPTOMS OF DEMENTIA Important early   indications of Dementia: 1. Forgetfulness with effects at work 2.   Difficulties with familiar activities (including absent mindedness) 3.   Language problems (Difficulty understanding and using misappropriate fillers) 4. Problems with spatial and temporal orientation 5. Impaired capacity   of judgement 6. Problems with abstract thinking 7. Leaving things behind 8. Mood swings and behavioral changes (sudden) 9. Personality changes   (unexpected anger, jealous or timid) 10. Loss of initiative (loss of   interest and zest) 11. Delusions - Monothematic Delusions, like mirrored   self-misidentification TREATMENT OF DEMENTIA As with numerous other   diseases there is no cure for the illness but medication can improve disease   symptoms. There are a number of drugs available today for improving brain   function. Typically anti-dementia or psychotropic drugs are prescribed. Although   these drugs do not halt the disease or reverse existing brain damage, they   improve symptoms and slow the progression of the disease. This may improve an   individual’s quality of life, ease the burden on caregivers, or delay admission   to a nursing home.. Diseases
                    & Conditions Cancer
                    Treatment Cardiovascular
                    Disorder Common
                    Children Diseases Cosmetic
                    Surgery Dental
                    Treatment Dermatology Digestive Disorders Ear,
                    Nose & Throat Problem Endocrine
                    System Problems Gynecologic
                    Disorders Herpetology Kidneys
                    & Urinary System Metabolism
                    Problems Neurological
                    Disorders Ophthalmology Orthopedic
                    Surgery Psychological
                    Disorders Respiratory
                    Disorder Home
              || About Us || Contact Us || Query Form || Medical
              Directory Copy