
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 18:00:50 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.16
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.16
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 18:00:51 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Asthma Attack And Treatment | Asthma and Respiratory Skip to content Skip to main navigation Skip to first column Skip to second column Health Tuber Home Health Videos Health Articles Add Health Videos Contact Us Home Asthma and Respiratory Asthma Attack And Treatment Asthma Attack And Treatment What is Asthma & what happens during an asthma attack? Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways in the lungs, causing breathlessness in the patient. An asthma attack takes place when a person becomes hyper-responsive to some stimuli like cold air, exercise, dust, pollutants and even stress and anxiety. This happens due to some changes in the person's lungs. The muscle tissues of the bronchi go into spasm, the cells lining the airways swell and mucus secretion takes place resulting in narrowing of the bronchi, thus making it difficult to breathe out. What treatment to follow during an asthma attack? Besides allopathic treatment, several alternative treatments have gained popularity due to their promising results. 1. Allopathic asthma attack treatment: Medical practitioners conduct a spirometry test to measure the functions of the lungs in patients. Some of the most common drugs used in allopathic treatment are the methylxanthine (theophylline) that has anti-inflammatory effects and controls night-time symptoms, Bronchodilators that relieve sudden attacks effectively, steroids that are drugs resembling body hormones, block inflammation and leukotriene modifiers that counteract the leukotriene produced by the white blood cells in the lungs. These drugs are either inhaled or administered orally or as injections. 2. Food & Nutrition therapy: Avoiding milk, processed foods, refined starches, sugars, foods with artificial additives and sulfites is recommended under this therapy. The patient is advised to take a diet high in fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains and low salt. A vegan diet is said to have reduced the incidence of attacks in patients. Drinking plenty of water keeps the airways moist. Including onions and garlic in the diet also helps as they are rich in flavonoids which inhibit the release of histamines. Regular intake of multivitamin supplements with vitamins A,C,E and B complex and minerals like magnesium and selenium, and omega 3 fatty acids improve conditions. Herbal treatment for asthma: Chinese herbs like Ephedra containing ephedrine works as a bronchodilator. Ginkgo had shown to reduce the frequency of attacks. Licorice is a natural decongestant and expectorant. Other herbs like lobelia, nettle, thyme, passionflower, Asian ginseng are also being used to treat asthma. Caffeine and theophylline present in coffee and tea respectively make them good bronchodilators. The herb Tylophore asthmatica is used in Ayurvedic treatment. 4. Homeopathic treatment: Thuja occidentalis, Antimonium tartaricum, Kali carbonicum, Silicea, Tuberculinum are some common drugs used in homeopathic treatment but the exact treatment is determined by an in-depth evaluation of the case. 5. Mind/Body medicine for asthma: This treatment emphasizes on reducing stress by advocating relaxation methods, breathing methods, meditation, hypnotherapy, psychotherapy. Yoga significantly helps asthmatics as the exercises help to expand the lungs, promote deep breathing and reduce stress. Pranayama, a set of breathing techniques when done regularly improves the condition. 6. Aromatherapy in asthma treatment: Use of fragrant oils such as eucalyptus, rosemary, chamomile, lavender also helps as they act as bronchodilators. While allopathic treats the symptoms and is very effective in emergency situations alternative medicines aim to restore balance in the lungs and strengthen the entire body, the immune system and the hormonal system. Unlike allopathic treatment they have minimal side effects and are inexpensive. Health Categories Acne ADD/ADHD AIDS/HIV and Immune System Allergy Arthritis Asthma and Respiratory Brain and Nervous System Cancer Children's Health Cold and Flu Depression Diabetes and Endocrine System Diet and Nutrition Digestive System Exercise & Fitness Family Health Hair Loss Headache Health Articles Heart and Blood Infectious Disease Men's Health Pain Management Senior's Health Skin Health Weight Loss Women's Health Latest Video NuraFlex Reviewed : Does Featured Video ﻿﻿ Diabetes Symptoms & Treat Diabetes Symptoms & Treat 5 Healthy Weight Loss Tip Tips to Promote Good Dige Ways to Help Your Digesti Nutrition & Healthy Eatin Preparing for a Baby So, you are having a baby! Congratulations. Now that the easy part of actually producing the baby is out of the way, the hard part is coming up – actually having it. The life of a family changes dra [ ... ] readmore... Perms Not everyone out there knows exactly what a perm is. For starters, perm is short for permanent because it doesn’t last very long. A perm is a hairstyle that millions of women get when they visit the [ ... ] readmore... Other Articles How to Prevent Osteoporosis the Natural Way Find Your Hidden Buns of Steel Great Exercises to Improve the Health and Strength of Seniors Dealing with the Elderly Beauty Magazines and Websites About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap © 2011 copyright www.healthtuber.com All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer: The information provided within this website is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for consultation with your physician or healthcare provider. The opinions expressed herein are not necessarily those of the Owners and Sponsors of this site. By using this site you agree to indemnify, and hold the Owners and Sponsors harm