Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Web www.internethealthlibrary.com INDEXES HOME
            PAGE MAIN
            INDEX HEALTH
            PROBLEMS A-Z ALTERNATIVE
            & COMPLEMENTARY THERAPIES PRODUCTS
            & SERVICES MEDICAL
               RE
            SEARCH ARTICLE
               LIBRARY HEALTH
            MATTERS DIET
            & NUTRITION DIET
            & LIFESTYLE SURVEYS ENVIRONMENTAL
            HEALTH WOMEN'S
            HEALTH CHILDREN'S
            HEALTH HOMOEOPATHIC
            LIBRARY HEALTH
            HEADLINES COURSES ORGANISATIONS PROFESSIONAL
            ASSOCIATIONS SELF-HELP ORGANISATIONS CONTACT Alternative Medicine Articles Holistic Depression Therapy Treating Signs Of Anxiety And Depression With Natural Antidepressants By: Athlyn Green Return to Article Index Practitioner Directory - PurpleHealth Holistic depression therapy is gaining respect in the medical world as a viable approach for treating stress-related and emotional disorders. The fast pace of modern-day living exerts tremendous pressure upon people, and depressive illnesses are on the rise, with a corresponding search for effective treatments to counter symptoms. A common argument against holistic medicine for depression and anxiety disorders is that hard evidence is lacking to substantiate claims made for efficacy of these remedies. But is that really the case? What does investigation show? Research has revealed that alternative approaches are safer than mainstream drugs and that these remedies are not usually accompanied by same severity of side effects or the withdrawal symptoms encountered when using or trying to stop prescription medications. What facts are known about holistic depression therapy? What botanical and herbal substances are used? How do these work to treat symptoms? More importantly, what effect do they have on the brain? SAM-e is a trusted natural treatment for moderate to severe depressive symptoms. In numerous trials involving thousands of patients, it has performed as well as traditional drugs used to alleviate depression: European research has shown it to be as effective or exceeding conventional medication, acting on the brain in a fashion similar to antidepressant drugs but generally free of troublesome effects. In fact, even at high doses, SAM-e is not associated with adverse effects. It has been prescribed successfully for two decades in 14 countries where it has been approved as a drug. Siberian ginseng improves the balance of important neurotransmitters (serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine) in the brain. It has been shown to be beneficial in treating depression by inhibiting monoamine. 5-HTP is derived from the griffonia simplicifolia plant and it increases serotonin levels. Serotonin is an important neurotransmitter involved in the regulation of endocrine and brain activity responsible for emotional well being and sleep-wake cycles. Backed by scientific research and clinical trials, confirmed by tangible results in patients, holistic medicine for depression and anxiety disorders offers active ingredients that have a significant impact on the brain and subsequently a person?s emotional health. Valerian comes with a long track record and is considered one the most effective herbs for healing the nervous system and for treating depressive disorders. And no wonder! It affects production of the neurotransmitter GABA (increasing it at the synaptic cleft as well as prohibiting reuptake). GABA is an amino acid known to play a role in the physiology of anxiety. (Prescription drugs for anxiety (Valium and Xanax) affect GABA receptors in the brain.) Valerian is a recognized holistic depression therapy. Passionflower offers flavonoids as primary constituents responsible for its relaxing and anti-anxiety effects. Chamomile supports and soothes the nerves, helping to compose the mind and body. It has been used for centuries and its anti-anxiety effects are well attested. Incorporating herbal extracts, amino acids, vitamins and minerals, enzymes and specialty supplements, complimentary holistic medicine for depression and anxiety disorders offers tangible medicinal benefits. Diet changes can have a profound impact on the way a person feels, and supplementing your diet with a scientifically researched supplement, a holistic depression therapy makes good sense. You can restore critical chemical imbalances in the brain that may be sending out red flags: symptoms of malfunction through nervousness and negative mood or overwhelming sadness and loss of hope. As well, supplements offer protective and preventative benefits, so that these conditions do not gain the upper hand in the first place. It is important to make sure you are consuming, digesting, and absorbing the needed proteins and essential fatty acids. Natural supplements, as a holistic medicine for depression and anxiety disorders, provide critical substances that the body needs for optimal functioning. Check with your primary care giver or a practitioner knowledgeable in the field of botanical medicine before starting any herbal program. The use of herbals is a time-honored approach to healing, an effective holistic depression therapy. Athlyn Green is an avid health enthusiast with an interest in natural remedies for treatment of health disorders.  She has contributed to Holistic Medicine For Depression And Anxiety Disorders , a section of http://www.beat-your-depression.com dedicated to natural treatments and prescription drug alternatives for this disorder. Create your own E-books with E-Book Creator Make your own
      software Click
      here The key to good health Click Here! Your own automated online health business! FREE start up
      including FREE web site Click here Want more from life? Click here Sponsors: www.myaffiliatepro.com www.yourskin.