
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache
X-FoxNews-EdgeTTL: 10m
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Cache-Control: max-age=583
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 05:19:07 GMT
Connection: close

Bariatric Surgery Growing in Popularity Among Latinos | Fox News Latino Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business) Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business) Fox News Digital Network Fox News Fox Business Small Business Center Fox News Radio Fox News Latino Fox Nation Fox News Insider Register Login Account You're logged in as Account Edit Profile Logout Saturday, February 18, 2012 as of 0:18 AM EST Search Site Home News Politics Entertainment Sports Health Lifestyle Community Español Bariatric Surgery Growing in Popularity Among Latinos Written By Nancy Averett Published February 17, 2012 Fox News Latino America Mizes before (left) and after (right) the surgery. America Mizes (right) after the surgery. Cristina Garza with her husband Nazario Garza Jr., before the surgery. Cristina Garza after losing 100 pounds. Next Slide Previous Slide Print Email Share Comments Recommend Tweet Related Stories 2,000 Peruvians Forcibly Sterilized Warning Over Fake Cancer Drug Navy Auctions Puerto Rican Property Online For three years, America Mizes could barely walk around the block without her feet starting to go numb. She weighed 304 pounds and had many of the health problems that go along with obesity: type II diabetes, high blood pressure , and rheumatoid arthritis . “I tried to exercise but I often couldn’t even finish a short walk,” said the Corpus Christie, Texas resident. “My weight was too much for my feet and I would have to call my husband to come get me.” One day she saw a commercial on television for gastric bypass surgery and she decided that whatever risks the procedure might have, they couldn’t be worse than the health problems she was already dealing with. These days Mizes, who now weighs 139 pounds, has no problem standing on her feet for an hour-long Zumba class. In fact, she teaches the class. “Now I can walk and run and jump," she said of the surgery. "It’s a beautiful thing.” Mexico Fights Child Obesity As the fastest growing minority group in the United States and with an obesity rate 21 percent higher than whites, Latinos may soon be the biggest consumers of bariatric surgery, a catchall term for stomach-reducing procedures like gastric bypass — especially since more and more insurance policies have started covering such procedures. “We think the increased coverage is an acknowledgement of the scientific basis of how this surgery can improve a patient’s overall health,” said Dr. Robin Blackstone, president of the American Society for Metabolic & Bariatric Surgery. “For instance, a recent paper in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows a remarkable decrease in heart attacks among bariatric surgery patients over a 20 year time period.” Patients who undergo bariatric surgery lose weight in part because they feel full after eating much smaller portions than they used to. “I used to eat six or eight tacos at a time,” said Cristina Garza, who had gastric bypass surgery two years ago. “Now I eat one or one and a half tacos and I’m super full.” Blackstone said the procedure also resets the way the brain interacts with hormones in the gut that contribute to things like taste. “One benefit is you start liking things that are actually good for you,” she said. According to the CDC, three reasons may account for the differences in obesity rates between Hispanics and whites. Hispanics are less likely to engage in non-occupational physical activity than whites. They have less access to healthy food and safe places to work out, and, especially among women, are more self-accepting about being overweight. New Nutritional Guidelines for Mexico's School Kids That self-acceptance, Blackstone said, may be a good thing psychologically but not physically. “That self-acceptance, the idea that being obese doesn’t change who you as a person, is a great thing,” she said. “On the other the other hand, it often means there’s no pressure for change. And that’s really needed right now in the Latino community. Latino leaders need to help their community understand that being a big person is really unhealthy.” Mizes and Garza agree. “My family is all Latino,” said Garza, who weighed 295 pound before her surgery and now weights 151. “When you go to someone’s house the first thing they do is offer you food. We’re always eating or cooking.” The 37-year-old Brownsville, Texas resident had a number of health issues including high blood pressure, high cholesterol and sleep apnea. “Before I used to wake up in the morning super tired as if I didn’t sleep all night,” she said. “I went to sleep at 9 p.m. and I was still sleepy when I woke up. Now I wake up 6:15 a.m. and I’m not tired or anything.” But it is not just the Latino passion for food that is the problem, according to Mizes, who says the Latino belief that women exist to nurture their husbands and children also contributes “We get caught up in being a wife, a friend, a mother, a sister,” she said. “We never put ourselves first.” But in order for a bariatric patient to be successful, she said, they need to make time for their own health. After her surgery, Mizes exercised for one hour everyday for a year. Her husband was resistant at first, she said, but now he supports her working out and has even started exercising himself. Both she and Garza had health insurance that covered the majority of the cost of their surgeries. Blackstone said an increasing number of private companies and state governments are covering the procedures. Doctors in Peru Remove 'Parasitic Twin' from Stomach of 3 Year-Old And she said the health insurance exchanges that will go into place with President Obama ’s new health care plan will make it easier for service industry employers and small business owners — who employ many Latino workers — to cover the surgery. She predicts a domino effect as more and more Latinos have the surgery and tell their friends about it. Indeed, Garza, an administrative assistant at Brownville University said she inspired two other secretaries and one faculty member to get the surgery. Her husband also recently had a procedure called the gastric sleeve. “He’s already lost 60 pounds in two and a half months,” Garza said. Nancy Averett is a freelancer based in Ohio. Follow us on twitter.com/foxnewslatino Like us at facebook.com/foxnewslatino Share This Article Newsletter Signup Sign up for free e-mail news alerts from FoxNews.com and FoxBusiness.com. Newsletter Signup View Article Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. You must login to comment. View Article Follow Fox News Latino Advertisement More Stories Bariatric Surgery Growing in Popularity Among Latinos Spain's Battle over Gold and Coins Salvaged Off Florida Nears Conclusion Jorge-Mario Cabrera: John and Ken Show Suspension Brings Break from Hate Big Find Made at Aztec Temple in Mexico Too Sexy for the Super Bowl? Reporter's Attire Sparks Debate, Again Interracial Marriage Hits Record High, Driven by Latino Population Growth Teacher of the Year Suspended for 'Go Back to Mexico' Comment Jennifer López's Breast Exposed Due to Wardrobe Malfunction Chavez's Day: Meet Sean Penn, Defend Oil Sales to Syria, Call Opponent a "Pig' Mexicana Flight Attendants Turned Calendar Girls Feud after Success Burmese Pythons Rule Florida's Everglades Honduras Criticized by International Community After Prison Fire Who is Yvette Prieto? More about Michael Jordan's Main Squeeze Sports Illustrated: Rafael Nadal, Model Strike Sexy Pose in Swimsuit Issue Jennifer Lopez's Honeymoon Video Gets Bids By Porn Studios Jobless Mexicana Flight Attendants Pose for Calendar Mars Eliminates King-Size Candy Rights Activists Worried About Jan Brewer's Militia Initiative Fat Joe Drops 100 Lbs. After Seeing Too Many Overweight Friends Die Young Selena Gomez Prank Leaves Lady Gaga Fuming, Report Says Christopher Sabatini: China’s Geostrategic Designs on Latin America Kobe Bryant Cheated on Latina Wife With Multiple Women, Reports Say Jennifer Lopez Steals the Spotlight at the American Music Awards Brazil's Teeny-Weeny Bikini is Not So Teeny Anymore Zetas Now Mexico's Biggest Cartel, Report Says Kobe Bryant and Wife Vanessa Kiss - Divorce Over? After Three Month Odyssey, Fishermen Rescued Off Mexico Texas Primary Date on the Line Last-Minute Valentine's Day Gift Ideas American Idol Castoff Travis Orlando Heads Back to School Cuidad Juarez Murder Rate, Tipping Over 1,000 in 2011, Shows Signs of Abating Mexican Drug Lord Makes Forbes 'Most Powerful' List; Mexican President Doesn't Jennifer Lopez & Marc Anthony Split Over Scientology, Report Says Jessica Perez Spices Up Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition Unemployed Mexicana Flight Attendants Pose for Playboy Chávez Hosts Summit of US-Free Americas Bloc Dudamel Takes LA Philharmonic To Venezuela for Homecoming Mexico Attacks Child Obesity with Weight Loss Program California Mom Drowns Toddler in Bathtub, 5-Year-old in Critical Condition Deported & Fighting Over Custody of his US Children Aurelia Flores: Making it Easy to Communicate with YOU in the Workplace (Part 1) Latino Filmmakers Show Love Story Through Animated Film "Chico And Rita" Barred Latina Candidate Stirs Criticism of Arizona Law Newt Gingrich Launches Ad Courting Arizona Latinos ABC Cancels Controversial Comedy 'Work It' Kobe Bryant’s Latina Wife Gets His Three Mansions, Report Says English-Only Bills Spark New Battle over Language Kobe Bryant's Wife is a Gold-Digger Like her Mother, Former Stepdad Says UFC: Diego Sanchez Loses Close Bout Honduras Prison Fire Leaves Hundreds Dead Advertisement Jennifer Lopez & Casper Smart -- Valentine's Day Is for Swingers Kobe Bryant and Vanessa --  Reconciling ... With Their Kissing Mouths Kate Upton -- I'm Definitely Maybe Dating Jets QB Mark Sanchez Erik Estrada's Wife Nanette -- Happy Valentine's Day! Here's an Edible Man Thong Chad Ochocinco -- I'm Getting My Johnson Back Alleged Suicide Bomber Arrested Outside Capitol Building Nigerian Underwear Bomber Receives Life Sentence Chinese Heir Apparent Denies Human Rights Abuses in China New Jersey Senate Approves Gay Marriage Bill Barack Obama to Revamp Controversial Birth Control Policy Freddie Prinze Jr. Loves Being a Stay at Home Dad Christina Aguilera And 'The Voice' Judges Returning for Season 3 Sources Confirm Demi Lovato is Not in Rehab Latino Sports Daily: Pau Gasol in Danger of Being Traded And More! Obama Raises $4 Million for Reelection Campaign in California Champions: Milan goleó al Arsenal y puso un pie en cuartos One more win for the Lakers El Zenit logra un importante triunfo de local ante Benfica PREMIER: Tottenham Hotspur gana y se acerca a los líderes Zamora logra primer punto en Libertadores frente a Boca So Chespirito Wrote Most Of Capulina's Movie Scripts White Mexican Girl Arrested In Mexico. Has The World Gone Mad? Who Knew Kissing A Real, Live Lion Could Be So Charming? Your Morning Squeeze: Behind The Music With La Tigresa Del Oriente Gisele Bundchen's Controversial TV Ad [Video] Discuten si ley inmigratoria de Utah usurpa la ley federal Fidel Castro dice que se siente vigilado Vittra Telefonplan: La revolucionaria escuela sin aulas (+VIDEO) Cerebro, corazón, emociones... ¿Quién nos controla? (OPINION) Los finalistas para el fracaso del año 'Fiasco Award 2012' La Cuna Blanca: A homage to a friend gone too soon Mixed-race marriages on the rise Manny-ball, Lin-ation, and quick hits What does freedom mean to you? [video] Democrats choose L.A. mayor to chair national convention Sections Home News Politics Entertainment Sports Health Lifestyle Community Español About Terms of Use Privacy Statement Ad Choices Contact Us Internships - FNCU Networking Facebook Twitter RSS This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redis