
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
Expires: Thu, 29 Mar 2012 10:36:52 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 29 Mar 2012 09:36:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
ntCoent-Length: 90104
Cache-Control: private
Date: Thu, 29 Mar 2012 09:36:57 GMT
Connection: close

Weight loss surgery and death risk NDTV Profit Khabar Movies Cricket Doctor Good Times .....for the better health of Indians -----------------------  Advertisement -------------------------- Home News Experts Q&A Photos Videos Interactives Interview Features Top 5 Directories Dictionary Calculators A-Z Topics Sections Fitness/Lifestyle Bones & Joints Breast Feeding Cancer Child Development Children Diabetes Drugs Ear Emotions Eyes Health Insurance Heart HIV/AIDS Infection Injuries/FirstAid Liver Men's Health Nutrition Pregnancy Rehabilitation Medicine Sex Skin Surgery Teeth Tobacco Control Travel and Health Tuberculosis Women's Health Poll Q. Do you use your mobile to look for health related information? Yes No Can't Say Post comment | Previous poll Weight loss surgery and death risk Journal of the American Medical Association, June 2011 Print | Comments: Read | Post Share Weight-loss surgery (bariatric surgery) doesn't decrease the risk of death among severely obese middle-aged adults. The prevalence of obesity (BMI greater than 35) has been increasing as has the prevalence of severe obesity ( BMI greater than 40) and super-obesity (BMI greater than 50). Obesity is difficult to treat, and bariatric surgery is the most effective means to induce weight loss for the severely obese. Consequently, obesity surgery rates have increased but no study has examined the long-term survival of high-risk patients who underwent bariatric surgery. Researchers examined the mortality for 850 Americans who had bariatric surgery in January 2000 to December 2006 (average age 49.5 years; average BMI, 47.4) and 41,244 nonsurgical controls (average age 54.7 years; average BMI 42.0. It was found that 11 of the 850 bariatric surgery patients (1.29 percent) died within one month of surgery. Bariatric surgery was not significantly associated with reduced mortality compared to the nonsurgical controls. Even though bariatric surgery doesn't reduce the risk of death among middle-aged male patients, many of them still decide to undergo the procedure because there's strong evidence that it reduces body weight and obesity-related health problems, and improves quality of life, the researchers concluded. Thursday, 23 June 2011 Print | Comments: Read | Post Post comments We request you not to tell us about your medical problems through this comment tool. We are unable to keep track of the innumerable queries and their answers that we get everyday 
                                unless they are sent through "Ask a Question" Name: * E-mail: * City: Phone: Comments: * 7000 characters remaining Spam protection Enter the code: * Disclaimer: Material sent in this section is contributed by users. DoctorNDTV accepts no responsibility for the content or accuracy of such material and does not endorse or subscribe to the content. Read Comments Posted by : rahul, on Tuesday, July 05, 2011 There is a substantial risk in patients undergoing bariatric surgery. Sleeve gastrectomy is very popular in India and although low the risk of gastric perforation is there leading to peritonitis and mortality. People need to understand this risk, If recognized early re exploration saves the patient but salvage is difficult once sepsis sets in. More Â» ----------------------- Advertisement4 -------------------------- Latest Photos More Photos» Featured FAQ Featured Q & A What is artificial pancreas? How long does healing take after circumcision? Is typhoid contagious? What is the alternative medication to  non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs? Recent FAQ Recent Q & A Why am I having persistent redness in the eyes? Does high TSH level affect pregnancy? Why is my pregnant wife experiencing from yellowish discharge? Why has my father started talking irrelevantly? Am I suffering from any throat disease? Survey Radiation and health outcomes The effect radiation has on human health has been the subject of recent interest. Previous Survey --------------------------------  Advertisement  ----------------------------------- In DoctorNDTV Topics : Angiography , Diarrhoea in adults , Ultrasound examination , Autism trivia , Varicocoele , Pap smear , Serum creatinine , Borderline personality disorder , Bell's Palsy , Paedophilia , Puberty , Dialysis , Autism , Aortic angiogram , Anorexia nervosa , Nosebleed , Low sperm count , Heat stroke (Heat injury) , Children's speech, hearing and vision , Ovarian cancer This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. NDTV Profit Khabar Movies Cricket Doctor Good Times About Us | Advertise | Feedback | Disclaimer | Investor | Complaint Redressal | Newsletter | Sitemap | Contact 