
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Wed, 09 May 2012 01:14:28 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.9
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache

Canadian Health&Care Mall - Pain Relief Your Cart: Items: 0 | Total: $0.00 USD GBP CAD EUR AUD CHF Men's Health Viagra Cialis Viagra Super Active+ Levitra Viagra Professional Viagra Super Force Cialis Super Active+ Cialis Soft Tabs Cialis Professional Viagra Soft Tabs Propecia Super Active ED Pack VPXL Maxaman View all products Pain Relief Tramadol Celebrex Toradol View all products Antibiotics Amoxicillin Zithromax View all products Women's Health Female Pink Viagra Female Cialis Nymphomax View all products Antidepressants Prozac Wellbutrin SR View all products Mental Health/Epilepsy Seroquel Aricept View all products Anxiety/Sleep Aid SleepWell Buspar View all products Blood Pressure/Heart Lipitor Lasix Benicar Cozaar View all products Cholesterol Zetia Zocor View all products Anti-allergic/Asthma Ventolin Advair View all products Weight Loss Acomplia Lipothin Mega Hoodia View all products Skin Care Retin-A Accutane View all products Eye Care Lumigan View all products Stomach Nexium Prevacid View all products Antidiabetic Actos View all products Antiviral Zovirax Valtrex View all products Cancer Arimidex View all products Stop Smoking Zyban View all products General Health Human Growth Hormone Prednisolone Synthroid View all products Vitamins/Herbal Supplements 100% Pure Okinawan Coral Calcium View all products Pets Petcam (Metacam) Oral Suspension Heartz (Small Dogs) View all products Pain Relief Tramadol as low as $1.50 Tramadol is a highly effective centrally acting synthetic analgesic used for treating moderate to severe pain. It can be used for relieving chronic pain in adults who require continuous treatment for an extended period of time. Tramadol does not have gastrointestinal side effects associated with NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). More Info Ultram as low as $0.99 Ultram is a highly effective centrally acting synthetic analgesic used for treating moderate to severe pain. It can be used for relieving pain in adults who require continuous treatment for an extended period of time. More Info Celebrex as low as $0.59 Celebrex is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, acute pain, painful menstruation and menstrual symptoms. More Info Toradol as low as $0.59 Toradol is used for the short-term treatment of moderate to severe pain in adults. More Info Flexeril as low as $0.89 Flexeril is used along with rest and physical therapy to decrease muscle pain and spasms associated with strains, sprains or other muscle injuries. More Info Indometacin as low as $0.25 Indometacin is used to relieve pain and inflammation in a wide range of musculoskeletal conditions, including various forms of arthritis, gout, muscle sprains and strains, back pain, tendinitis and pain following orthopaedic procedures. It can also be used to relieve period pain. More Info Imitrex as low as $4.48 Imitrex is a medicine for the acute treatment of migraine attacks. Causing constriction of the blood vessels, it relieves migraine and its associated nausea and light sensitivity. More Info Lidocaine as low as $16.00 Lidocaine in the topical form is used to relieve pain and discomfort associated with herpes zoster virus infection of the skin (shingles) and other conditions. More Info Topamax as low as $1.23 Topamax is used for the treatment of epilepsy in both children and adults and for the prevention of migraines. More Info Robaxin as low as $1.80 Robaxin is a muscle relaxant used to treat skeletal muscle spasms. More Info Diclofenac as low as $0.45 Diclofenac is used to reduce inflammation and pain in conditions such as arthritis or acute injury. It can also be used to reduce menstrual pain, dysmenorrhea. More Info Cafergot as low as $0.78 Cafergot is used for the treatment of migraine headache. More Info Zanaflex as low as $0.68 Zanaflex is a muscle relaxant that relaxes tension, stiffening or contraction of muscles caused by spasticity. It is prescribed for people with multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injuries, and other disorders that produce protracted muscles spasms. More Info Arcoxia as low as $0.38 Arcoxia is used for acute and chronic treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and for the management of ankylosing spondylitis. It is also used for the treatment of chronic low back pain, acute pain and gout. More Info Tizanidine as low as $0.68 Tizanidine is a short-acting muscle relaxant used for treating muscle spasms, cramping, and tightness caused by various medical problems including multiple sclerosis, spastic diplegia, and back pain. It works by blocking nerve impulses (pain sensations) that are sent to the brain. More Info Diclofenac Topical Gel as low as $9.00 Diclofenac gel is used for the relief of the pain of osteoarthritis of joints such as the knees and those of the hands. More Info Skelaxin as low as $1.52 Skelaxin is a muscle relaxant that works by affecting central nervous system and relaxing muscles. Skelaxin is used for treating discomfort associated with acute painful muscle conditions. It relieves pain caused by strains, sprains, and other muscle injuries. More Info Emla as low as $24.90 Emla is a local anaesthetic. More Info Mobic as low as $0.48 Mobic is used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and juvenile arthritis. It reduces pain, swelling, and stiffness of the joints. More Info Savella as low as $0.52 Savella is used in the treatment of depression and fibromyalgia. More Info Motrin as low as $0.45 Motrin is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. It relieves pain and inflammation and is used for relief of symptoms of arthritis, primary dysmenorrhea, fever, and as an analgesic. Motrin is a core medicine in the World Health Organization's "Essential Drugs List". More Info Ultracet as low as $1.40 Ultracet is a combination of tramadol and acetaminophen. It is used to relieve pain caused by various conditions. More Info Lioresal as low as $0.94 Lioresal is used for treating severe muscle spasms due to a variety of causes, including multiple sclerosis or brain or spinal cord injuries. Lioresal relaxes muscles and relieves pain and discomfort. More Info Pain Massage Oil as low as $7.95 Pain Massage Oil is a himalaya herbal oil that helps relieve neuromuscular pain and pain associated with arthritis. More Info Imitrex Nasal Spray as low as $32.00 Imitrex nasal spray is used for the treatment of acute migraine attacks. More Info Maxalt as low as $6.95 Maxalt is used for treating acute migraine headache with or without aura (flashing lights, wavy lines, dark spots) in adults. It should not be used to prevent migraines or cluster headaches. More Info Relafen as low as $0.68 Relafen is used for treating pain and inflammation caused by rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis. Relafen works by reducing the effects of hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. More Info Aleve as low as $0.45 Aleve is a pain reliever that provides relief for a variety of conditions including headache, muscular aches, toothache, backache, common cold, menstrual cramps, and minor pain of arthritis. More Info Tylenol as low as $0.38 Tylenol is used to relieve pain and reduce fever. More Info Robinaxol as low as $1.80 Robinaxol is a combination of methocarbamol (Robaxin) and acetaminophen which is used to treat muscle spasms. More Info Lodine as low as $0.88 Lodine is used to relieve pain and inflammation associated with arthritis. More Info Ponstel as low as $0.55 Ponstel is a pain relief drug used to treat pain from various conditions, including menstrual pain. More Info Rumalaya as low as $10.95 Rumalaya Forte is a natural himalaya herbal medicine, used to alleviate pain and discomfort associated with arthritis and several other conditions. More Info Shallaki as low as $7.95 Shallaki is a himalaya herbal product used in the treatment of arthritis and joint pain. More Info Nimesulide Gel as low as $14.95 Nimesulide topical gel is used to relieve pain. More Info Pain Balm as low as $8.50 Pain Balm is a himalaya herbal product used to relieve pain. More Info Shigru as low as $7.95 Shigru is a himalaya herbal product used in the treatment of arthritis and joint pain. More Info Panadol Extra as low as $0.38 Panadol Extra is commonly used to relieve pain and reduce fever. More Info Muscle & Joint Rub as low as $8.00 Muscle & Joint Rub is used to relieve backaches, muscular sprains and joint pains. More Info VIEW LICENSE CHCM Ltd is licensed by College of Pharmacists of Ontario OUR ADDRESS: Main Office: 186 Brock Street, Kingston, ON, Canada WE SHIP WORLDWIDE: TO ALL COUNTRIES AND DESTINATIONS, FEEL FREE TO ORDER PAYMENT METHODS: Delivery | Anti-Spam Policy | Report Spam | Unsubscribe | Secure and Confidential ©