Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.1.3
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Health Conditions Probiotics and Specific Conditions for which Probiotic Therapies are proven to be helpful Bacteria have a reputation for causing
                disease, so the idea of consuming them to combat illness is rather new to many. Many and various health benefits accrue from probiotic consumption. It appears that the
                   potential benefits of probiotics is vast. Besides boosting the immune system , and improving overall health,
                   probiotics research shows many benefits of probiotics and they are being studied for
                   treatment of specific diseases. Experiments into the benefits of probiotic
                therapies stress the link between specific strains and specific health benefits. Here we present
                articles covering health conditions and diseases for which probiotics have been proven to be
                helpful. Probiotics Immunity Infections Probiotics help the immune system fight infections. Studies show that "good" bacteria  balance out unhealthy organisms, boost immunity and help in preventing or treating infections. Probiotics and Eczema Probiotics provide a natural remedy for eczema and research has focused on their role in treating this skin condition for over 20 years Treating Candida If you want a natural remedy for candida, probiotics are ideal. Probiotic fermented foods and cultured milk products have existed since ancient times and have no known side effects. You can find probiotics readily available in foods with probiotics and dietary supplements Cancer Treatment Can probiotics help with the treatment of cancers? Since they boost the body's immune system, probiotics are being investigated as a natural aid to help fight disease. H pylori and Ulcers Probiotics may be a safe, natural way to treat H. pylori infectin. Research into probiotics and ulcers suggest that probiotic yogurts and supplements help eradicate infection and ease symptoms Inflammatory Bowel Disease Probiotics help with Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's Disease. Studies show how these "friendly bacteria" help. Urinary Tract Infection Vaginal Yeast Probiotics help treat urinary tract infections, vaginal yeast infections. Symptoms and Research. Diarrhea Caused by Antibiotics Antibiotic-related diarrhea can be reduced through use of probiotics. Choose probiotics which have been formulated to assist with this problem. Prevent & Reduce Severity of Colds & Flu The common cold and influenza or flu may be prevented with probiotic use. Studies of probiotic yogurts and supplements show promise. Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Studies suggest that probiotics can safely and effectively improve IBS symptoms and normalize bowel function in patients with constipation or diarrhea related to IBS. Probiotics For Weight Loss Weight loss is sometimes an unexpected benefit of probiotic supplements. Friendly bacteria can regulate how calories are retained by our bodies External Links to Probiotics and their use in
                Medicine: University of Maryland Medical Centre: Probiotics as Complementary Medicine Ohio State University: What are
                Probiotics and What do they Do ? UC  Davis: Probiotics: the Future of Preventative Medicine University of Michigan: Probiotics as Alternative Medicine Pre and
                Probiotics in Today's Medicine (powerpoint presentation-
                CalUniv) Bookmark this page BlinkList Delicious Digg Diigo Facebook Google Bookmarks Slashdot Spurl Stumbleupon Twitter The above information is provided for general educational purposes only. It is not intended to replace
            competent health care advice received from a knowledgeable healthcare professional. You are urged to
            seek healthcare advice for the treatment of any illness or disease. The statements made within this
            website have not been evaluated by Health Canada and the Food and Drug Administration (USA). These
            statements and products on this website are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any
            disease. Back to top | Print this
     page | Bookmark this page Amazon.com Widgets Up One Level Health Conditions Probiotics Immunity Infections Probiotics and Eczema Treating Candida Cancer Treatment H pylori and Ulcers Inflammatory Bowel Disease Urinary Tract Infection Vaginal Yeast Diarrhea Caused by Antibiotics Prevent & Reduce Severity of Colds & Flu Irrita