
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 06:19:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Cache-Control: max-age=3600, public, must-revalidate, proxy-revalidate
Expires: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 06:19:53 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Pragma: public
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cough Syrup for Sore Throat, Chronic Bronchitis and Whooping Cough. Natural Cough Remedy ough remedy"> Follow @ayurvediccureco 24 Hours Customer Support Testimonials Tracking 60 days Money Back Guarantee Privacy in Delivery Free Consultation Free Shipping Worldwide New Promotions Online Magazine Home Products HealtH A-Z Men's Health Women's health Sexual Well-being Vitamins Skin Care Hair Care Natural Remedies | Home Remedies | Herbal Remedies | Health Care Browse Male  Health Women's Health Female Libido Breast Care Weight Loss Arthritis / Joint Pain Vitamins / Anti aging Memory Support Diabetes Support Heart Support Cholesterol Stress Relief Kidney Support Skin Problems Digestive Support Immunity Boosters Liver Support Cough & Throat care Hair Loss / Dandruff Weak Eyesight Dental Care Colon Support Shop with Confidence Others Ailments & Remedies Diet Chart Child Care Massage Benefits Common Herbs Common Spices Exercise Equipments Shahnaz Husain Aroma Magic Biotique Products Beauty Magazine Research Best Sellers Kohinoor Gold Lady Serum Shilajit Triphala Breast Capsules Obeslim G-KOF Cough Syrup Cough, Sore Thraot Tweet The comprehensive cough remedy with advance performance. Relaxes chest muscles, eases breathing, induces sense of well being. Two Bottles Your Price: $35.00 OUT OF STOCK Three Bottles Your Price: $60.00 OUT OF STOCK Want to buy less or more qtys. See Combo Packs below Your Product Guide Information Ingredients Combo Packs The aggravation of three doshas Vata, Pitta and Kapha leads to these kind of diseases. A malfunctioning of the liver may not become apparent immediately, unless, the blood flow through it is impeded or the bile ducts are obstructed. Nor does it recover quickly once a disorder lodges itself in the organ. It has found to be a good expectorant in chronic cough for treating: Chronic Bronchitis Whooping Cough Sore Throat Bronchial Asthma Haemoptysis Pneumonia Upper and Lower Respiratory Tract Infection " G-Kof Syrup is an excellent medication. My daughter had been coughing for 6 weeks and I had been coughing for 3 weeks and we have been taking G-Kof Syrup for a week now and our cough is almost gone. Thank you, my faith in Ayurvedic medicine has been renewed now." - Anu Deshpande, USA "G-Kof syrup was very effective for cough. I got the result in one day of use. I tried your product beause of the effective composition of tulsi, ginger, honey, kasni. I have heard of these herbs as good ailment for throat, and this product has shown excellent results to me." - Siddharth Ingredients Composition of G-KOF Syrup: Mulathi - 100mg Vasaka - 100mg Hanspadi -100mg Kasni - 100mg Kantkari - 100mg Bahera - 100mg Sunthi - 100mg Tankan - 100mg Tulsi - 100mg Banaksha - 100mg Zoofa - 100mg Sat Pipramint - 2mg Nilgiri Oil - 0.03mg Honey - 100mg Packaging: 100ml Plastic Bottle Dosage: 2-3 teaspoon three times a day or as directed by the physician. It is 100% herbal and safe. Guaranteed Results. Send us your Feedback here. * Not Suitable for Diabetic patients* Various Herbs Present in G-KOF Syrup Mulathi (Glycyrrhiza glabra), (Liquorice) : In ancient Chinese pharmacy, it was used for its rejuvenating properties especially when used for long periods. It was used to quench thirst, alleviate feverishness, pain, cough and distress of breathing. Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum), (Holy Basil): The leaves of tulsi yield an essential oil which contains eugenol, carvacrol, methyl eugenol, and carophyllene. The plant has medicinal properties and the leaves are specific for many fevers. The seeds of the plant are also useful for chronic dysentery, cough and fever. Ginger (Zingiber officinale), (Adrak) : Ginger has been used as a medicine in India from Vedic period and is called maha-aushadhi, meaning the great medicine. The herb is an excellent remedy for coughs and cold. Kasni (Cichorium intybus), (Chicory): Kasni is a tonic herb which taken in moderate quantities cure hay fever, cough, sore throat. Powder of dry root along with honey is a good expectorant in chronic bronchitis. Honey: It acts as demulcent and anti-inflammatory. Bahera (Terminalia belerica), (Belleric Myroblan): The bahera fruit is one of the three constituents of the famous Indian preparation triphala, the other two being embelica myroblan (amla) and chebulic myroblan (harad) and is a goody remedy for coughs. Zoofa (Hyssopus officinalis), (Zufah yabis): Herbalists recommend Zoofa for treating wide range of respiratory disorders such as influenza, colds, catarrh and bronchitis. Marrubiin, a bitter principle in the plant, has expectorant qualities and helps to promote the removal of catarrhal matter and phlegm from the bronchial tubes. Kantkari (Solanum nigrum): Protects the respiratory tract from harmful effects of histamines, which are liberated during allegic cough. Vasaka (Adhatoda vasica): Dilutes the viscous sputum and helps to expectorate it out Read About G-Kof Capsules G-KOF Syrup - Cough, Chronic Bronchitis - Guaranteed Results!! Packs Retail Price Shipping Order Now 2 Bottles $35.00 Free OUT OF STOCK 4 Bottles $60.00 Free OUT OF STOCK Tweet Still, Looking for More? Read E-Books and get Help! Best Sellers For Men Kohinoor Gold Tribulus Terrestris Shilajit Cupidrex Serum Butea Superba Butea Superba Gel Mucuna Pruriens Asparagus Conmax Serum For Women Breast Enlargement Tighten Vagina Ashoka (Discharge) Gynol (Discharge) Shatavari (Low Libido) Provestra (Low Libido) Regunova (Menstural) Arthritis / Joint / Back Arthcare Oil Arthcare Capsules Boswellia Constipation Triphala Haritaki Acne / Skin Problems Neem Khadir Haemafine Syrup Diabetes Diabeta Dyboss Bittter melon Gymnema Sylvestre Weight Loss Obeslim Morslim Z Garcinia Cambogia Cellulite Reduction Cellulite Cream Heart Care Dilguard Cardocare Arjuna (Heart Care / BP) Guggul (Cholesterol) Garlic (Cholesterol) Stress/ Memory Memocare Ashwagandha (Stress) Brahmi (Brain Tonic) Immune System Immuno Plus Wheat Grass Tinospora Cordifolia Amla (Vitamin C) Digestive Issues Ginger Trikatu Kutaj (Diarrhea) Gzyme Syrup Cough & Sore Throat Licorice Holy Basil Hair Loss / Dandruff Hair Loss Cream Bhringraja Supplement Liver Problems Livup Bhumyamalaki Kidney/ Renal Stone Rencare Home Remedies Herbal Remedies HEALTH MAGAZINE E-Books Awards Won Affiliates Drop Shipping Baby Care Medical Tests Dental Care Pets Care Sexual Health Care Beauty Tips Pregnancy Guide Ayurveda Free Consultation Question Board FAQs Contact Us Shipping Returns Privacy Secured About Us Disclaimer - The statements regarding these products have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. The information on this web site is designed for educational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for informed medical advice or care. Copyright © 2011 AyurvedicCure.com 