X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Information on the herb valerian. "We make living and aging a stunning experience…" Michael A Meyer Home Contact us Internet shopping security Order in USA + world Herbal products Single herbs, powders & extracts Currency converter Shipping Order in South Africa Herbal products Single herbs, powders & extracts Aflewering | Delivery INFORMATION Herbal encyclopedia Herbal remedies Using herbs Safety Therapeutic properties Related articles Free publications OTHER Privacy and copyright Search Links Valerian (garden heliotrope) Valeriana officinalis This page contains information on valerian and how it is used as an herb in alternative herbal treatments to treat ailments and problems. It is used as a sedative, to promote sleep naturally and calm restlessness. on this page Botanical classification of valerian Description of valerian Parts used Properties of valerian Internal use External use Use of essential oil Safety precautions and warnings Used in the following products Herbal Index Please note that we are not advocating that people stop using their normal medication, but would like to make people aware that some alternative therapies can be very effective to help treat problems and create a healthier, younger and more vital you. For more information on our range of products, please click here . Although we believe in the therapeutic and healing properties of herbs, care must be taken in the use thereof, as they are powerful compounds. Botanical Classification Family Valerianaceae Genus and specie Valeriana officinalis Other names Valerian Root, common valerian and garden heliotrope. Description of the herb valerian It is a perennial herb with short rhizomes and aromatic, feathery leaves, with small pink or white flowers. Parts used The rhizomes, roots, and essential oil are used, but it is mostly the dried root that is used for internal applications. Properties Valerian is a warming and sedative herb with bitter principles and is used to calm the nerves, help with pain relief, stimulate the appetite, lower blood pressure, relax spasms and improve digestion. It contains a volatile oil which contains bornyl acetate, b-caryophyllene, valeranone, valerenal, bornyl isovalerate and valerenic acid. The dried root also contains valepotriates. Therapeutic uses Internal use Valerian is used internally for restlessness and anxiety, insomnia and to promote sleep naturally, muscular cramps, tension and spasm, migraine, indigestion of nervous origin, hypertension and painful menstruation. It is useful to treat premenstrual syndrome (PMS), as well as irritation and anxiety in menopause. It is a popular ingredient of relaxant herb tea blends as it offers a non-addictive alternative to synthetic tranquilizers. External use Externally it can be used for skin complaints, such as ulcers, eczema and minor sores and wounds. Aromatherapy and essential oil use None noted. Safety precautions and warnings The internal use of valerian can cause drowsiness and should NOT be used in conjunction with other sedative drugs or anti-depressants. The safety during pregnancy has not been clearly established. When used internally it increase the effect of other sedative drugs. Used in the following of our products None. Herbal information Herbal encyclopedia Different uses of medicinal herbs Explanation of the therapeutic properties of herbs List of ailments and herbs that may be useful Information on individual herbs Aconite Alfalfa Allspice Almond Aloe Vera Angelica Anise Apple Apricot kernels Arnica Artichoke Asparagus Astragalus Avocado Barberry Basil Bay Bayberry Beetroot Benzoin Bergamot Bilberry Birch Black cohosh Black pepper Blackberry Blessed thistle Boldo Borage Brewers yeast Bromelain Buchu Buckthorn Butchers broom Cajuput Calendula Camphor Caraway Cardamom Carrot Cascara sagrada Catmint Catuaba Cayenne pepper Cedarwood ( Red ) Celery Centella Chamomile ( German ) Chamomile ( Roman ) Chaste tree Chickweed Chives Cinnamon bark ( Chinese ) Cinnamon Citronella Clary sage Cloves Cola nut Comfrey Coriander Cornflower Corn silk Cranberry Damiana Dandelion Devil's claw Dill Echinacea Elder flower Eleuthero Ephedra Eucalyptus Everlasting Fennel Fenugreek Flax Frankincense Garlic Gentian root Geranium Ginger Ginkgo biloba Ginseng Golden rod Goldenseal Gotu kola Grapefruit Green tea Hawthorn Hemp seed Hibiscus Hoodia gordonii Hops Horehound Horny goat weed Horse chestnut Horseradish Horsetail Hyssop Iceland moss Immortelle Ivy Jasmine Jojoba Juniper Kava kava Lady's mantle Lavender Lemon Lemon balm Lemon grass Lemon thyme Lemon verbena Licorice root Lily Lime Linden flowers Loofah Maca Maitake Marjoram Marshmallow Maté Meadowsweet Melissa Menthol Milk thistle Monkshood Motherwort Mullein MSM Mud Myrrh Neem Neroli Nettle Niaouli Nutmeg Oak Oats Oat straw Olive leaf Onion Orange ( Seville ) Orange ( Sweet ) Palmarosa Palm oil Parsley Passionflower Patchouli Peppermint Petitgrain Pine Plantain Poplar Psyllium seed husk Pumpkin seed Reishi Resveratrol Rooibos Rose Rose geranium Rosehip Rosemary Rosewood Sage Sandalwood Saw palmetto Seaweed Senna Shepherd's purse Shiitake Soy Spearmint St John's wort Stinging nettle Tagetes Tangerine Tea tree Thyme Turmeric Usnea Uva Ursi Valerian Vetivert Violet Walnut Watercress Willow Witch hazel White lily Yarrow Ylang-ylang Yohimbe bark Our product range Skin care Healing cream To assist in wound healing while soothing skin complaints – such as eczema and psoriasis, acne and piles and moisturizing and protecting the skin. This product has shown its effectiveness over a wide range of problems and judging from sales over more than a decade – it is the trusted healing cream to help with all mishaps, allergic reactions, irritated, burning, itchy and uncomfortable skin conditions. Face wash This face wash will properly clean your face and remove all impurities and environmental pollutants, without drying the skin. It contains eight herbal extracts to help promote a clear, vital and healthy complexion and a younger looking skin. Moisturizing day cream This day cream is formulated to help fight the signs of aging on various fronts. It helps to reduce free radical damage which, if left unchecked, leads to premature aging. The herbal extracts help to promote cell rejuvenation and regeneration and provide moisture and hydration to the skin. Nourishing night cream This nourishing night cream penetrates the skin extremely well and does not make the skin feel oily. It contains a host of herbal extracts to help in the fight against premature aging and has added vitamin E as well. Apart from the moisturizing effect and the anti-aging properties it also softens and smoothes the skin. Eye gel An effective refreshing eye gel to help reduce puffiness and dark rings around the eyes, while fighting wrinkles and lines. This is a very clever combination of herbal extracts and the base formula has its roots in a clinically proven formula. Mud face mask With this skin treatment product we combined a special selection of herbs in a base of thermal mud with oligoelements. This recommended weekly treatment will boost circulation to the skin, help to fight wrinkles and lines, improve firmness while at the same time improving suppleness and elasticity of the skin. After shave balm This effective balm helps to relieve an irritated skin caused by shaving. Not only is it a soothing balm, but the herbal extracts actively work to increase hydration and moisturize the skin to help fight the signs of premature aging – and all of this done in one simple no-fuss balm. Hair care Shampoo with rosemary extract + 7 other herbals Our shampoo is in a class of its own – and granted – it is far more expensive than cheap supermarket shampoos, but no other shampoo has the active ingredients we have in our shampoo. The rosemary will boost the health of the hair and scalp, while the other seven herbal extracts will help strengthen the hair and make it shine, increase the volume and make it manageable. Rosemary hair treatment conditioner We have found that this hair conditioner should really be used as a conditioning treatment. This then removes the need to condition the hair every time you wash – and can be used once a month. It is a superb hair tonic and helps in the control of sebum secretion of the scalp. Although not formulated for dandruff – the ingredients will assist with this as well, while supporting the health of the scalp. Specialized herbal gels and lotions Hand and body lotion When formulating this hand and body lotion we created a rich nourishing, protecting and reviving lotion, which will not leave the skin oily or tacky, but will create a well moisturized, hydrated and supple skin. After applying this lotion it will quickly be absorbed by the skin, leaving it silky soft, smooth and well moisturized. Stretch mark gel Although nothing can remove already formed stretch marks (only surgery can do that) – thousands of satisfied clients confirm that this gel improves the appearance of old stretch marks. The gel will help in PREVENTING stretch marks (a 92% success rate) and is used with great success by expectant mothers and body builders who may form marks when bulking-up. The formula of this gel is based on clinical studies done in France, to which we added other herbal extracts. Cellulite gel Fighting cellulite is easy with this herbal cellulite gel. It contains a patented extract of Bayberry (Myriceline) and nine other plant extracts and essential oils. The gel will help to get rid of cellulite (which has been clinically proven) and will also help to prevent cellulite from forming. So now it is easy to get your soft body contours back again. Herbal supplements Apple cider vinegar (liquid) with Centella asiatica The health benefits of apple cider vinegar are combined with the therapeutic properties of Centella asiatica. This old folk remedy is still used with great effect by thousands of people daily. Apricot kernel capsules Our capsules contain natural apricot kernels combined with Resveratrol, Selenium, Grape Seed Extract, MSM, Vitamin C and Bioperine and offers a safe and non-toxic of supplementing with apricot kernels. Digest capsules If your digestive system is under-par and you struggle with constipation or you simply need to boost the health of your digestive system then this capsule is for you. Fenugreek is a general digestive tonic and psyllium is a magical bulking agent that will help proper bowel movements, without using a laxative. Detox capsules Our modern day lifestyle exposes us to many unwanted additive and our diet also places stress on the body. To help the body get rid of toxins and waste materials naturally we combined fennel, basil, celery and parsley to help the body remove these toxins. It peps-up your metabolism and helps the bladder, kidneys and liver to do their work more effectively. Urinary and bladder health capsules Using an all natural approach, our capsules will help the discomfort and burning urine sensation of urinary tract infection and help clear up foul smelling urine. We combined cranberry, dandelion, uva ursi and vitamin C in a single capsule to effectively fight bladder infections and to stop the burning sensation when urinating. Tri- Mushroom blend capsules If you need an immune system boost then have a look at our combination of maitake, reishi and shiitake mushrooms. These mushrooms have showed to be a great help in boosting the immune system – and form a good nutritional supplement support for HIV/Aids patients and people receiving chemotherapy. Any person with even a slightly compromised immune system may benefit from this supplement. Hoodia slimming capsules Many companies offer hoodia capsules – but most of the time these supplements do not contain the real thing. We use CERTIFIED hoodia in our capsules and is combined with chromium to make it more effective to help lose weight. P57 is the active ingredient in hoodia and some people find it an effective appetite suppressant – without any side effects. Olive leaf extract capsules This natural detoxifier helps with a variety of ailments and people with chronic fatigue syndrome, infections, glandular fever (Epstein Barr), and even candida and herpes have found it of value. Olive leaf extract helps to fight bacteria, viruses, retroviruses, and protozoa and yeast strains. Apart from fighting all of these problems it also helps to improve kidney function and fights free radicals. Sexual supplement (previously known as Vuka Nkuzi) Men normally don’t admit when they have a declining libido although it is a most common problem. We combine in this supplement seven different natural ingredients to boost sexual health – without any side effects often experienced with such medication. After more than a decade, and thousands of regular Vuka Nkuzi clients we still offer this well priced supplement to boost the libido. Other products Jojoba oil This liquid golden ester not only moisturizes and penetrates the skin but also helps to fight wrinkles and lines while promoting a clear and unblemished skin. Jojoba does not clog the pores but helps to restore skin elasticity and smoothness. It will leave the skin supple and velvety soft without any oiliness and can be used neat on the skin. Lavender oil This is the most popular essential oil and with good reason. Lavender oil is a superb product to use on burns, insect bites, sunburn, wounds and other skin complaints and irritations. Lavender oil is one of the few essential oils that can be used neat (not diluted) on the skin, and is great to help with regeneration and rejuvenation of skin cells. Emotionally it has a calming and soothing effect and is an exceptionally pleasant smelling oil. Tea tree oil Once used, you will always have a bottle of tea tree essential oil handy. It deals effectively with bacteria, fungi and viruses. Our oil surpasses the “Australian Standard” by having less than 15% 1,8 cineole and more than 30% of Terpinen-4-ol. This powerful essential oil is effective in various ways to fight infections and skin problems. Almond oil This light and deeply moisturizing oil has a softening effect on the skin and can be used on the face and body. Almond oil has excellent emollient properties and helps to balance water and moisture loss in the skin. It can be used neat on the skin and also makes an excellent massage base. Articles of interest Antioxidants and free radicals Aromatherapy - healing essential oils Baggy eyes and black rings under eyes Clinical references Constipation, laxatives and healthy alternatives Contact information and company details Currency converter Fax order form FREE facial exercises FREE Michael Meyer Éclat diet FREE publications via e-mail Growth of the Ageless herbal range Guarantee of our quality Herbs and drug interactions Herbs in pregnancy and lactation How to fight cellulite How to wear fragrances and perfume Human growth hormones Index of Ageless newsletters Information on appetite suppressants Information on psoriasis Links to other websites Lipstick make-up tips Male sexual matters Order processing Ordering from us Positive mental attitude Privacy statement Procaine (GH3) anti-aging drug by Prof. Ana Aslan Search our site Side effects of acne medication Skin care tips The fountain of youth The herbalist Margaret Roberts Vitamins and minerals Why buy Ageless herbal products? Endorsed by Sharon Prasad Home | Product list | Order processing | Payment options | Contact us | Free articles Herbal encyclopedia | Herbal remedies | Search | Privacy | Links | Free newsletter Information contained on this website is for general information purposes only and must not be used to treat or diagnose medical conditions. All health problems must be referred to a health care professional. Statements made regarding the products, ingredients and general information have not been evaluated by the FDA or SAMCC and should not be seen as health claims. All ingredients used in our products are safe and are in not banned, controlled or restricted. All products are manufactured in licensed laboratories and following strict GMP and ISO standards. Our site was last up