
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2012 23:20:39 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
X-Pingback: http://www.subrecord.org/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Treatment | Women Health Center - Part 3 Women Health Center Search for: Home Posts Tagged ‘Treatment’ « Older Entries Newer Entries » Bacterial Vaginosis Treatment – 3 Common Ways to Get Rid of Bacterial Vaginosis June 10th, 2011 Bacterial vaginosis is a form of vaginal infection caused by bacteria and is rather difficult to eliminate completely.Nevertheless, you can learn how to get rid of bacterial vaginosis using tried and proven ways. In general, there are 3 ways to treat bacterial vaginosis: Medical treatment When you suspect you have bacterial vaginosis symptoms, visit your doctor and get a confirm diagnosis. This is to make sure that you are having bacterial vaginosis, and not other infections. Only after that you will be given the appropriate treatment. Bacterial vaginosis is usually treated with antibiotics, which can be either oral medication, or topical gel or cream to be applied on the vaginal area. Antibiotics kill the culprit bacteria that cause the infection. When the culprit is removed, you attain relief in the symptoms, and eventually get rid of bacterial vaginosis. Many women find antibiotic treatment effective, but there are even more women who failed to eliminate bacterial vaginosis with just antibiotics. Over-the-counter (OTC) treatment Various types of OTC treatment for bacterial vaginosis can be found in pharmacies/drug stores. The only thing with OTC items is that you need to know which ones are able to treat the condition at its root causes, and which are just for symptom relief. Vaginal anti-itch creams They are mainly used to relieve itching and irritation. They don’t target the underlying cause of BV, but simply providing temporary relief. The itchiness may be gone, but the infection stays on. Lactate vaginal gels and probiotic supplements These products contain compounds that are able to treat the true cause of bacterial vaginosis, i.e. vaginal pH imbalance. Bacterial vaginosis natural remedies So, exactly how to get rid of bacterial vaginosis once and for all? It is by using natural remedies. Many women tested and found that natural treatments have better success rates. Natural remedies not only provide faster and permanent relief, they are also cheaper and safer. You can search for information on natural bacterial vaginosis cures on the internet and books. But did you know that you can instantly gain access to a natural step-by-step system to help you get rid of bacterial vaginosis rapidly and permanently? Check out this 3 Days to Permanent Bacterial Vaginosis Relief review and find out now. Comments Off » Posted in Uncategorized Tags: Bacterial Common Treatment Vaginosis Ways Fibrocystic Breast ? Causes, Symptoms and Treatment June 5th, 2011 Fibrocystic breast condition is a common, non-cancerous condition that affects more than 50% of women at some point in their lives. The most common signs of fibrocystic breasts include lumpiness, tenderness, cysts (packets of fluid), areas of thickening, fibrosis (scar-like connective tissue), and breast pain. Having fibrocystic breasts, in and of itself, is not a risk factor for breast cancer. However, fibrocystic breast condition can sometimes make it more difficult to detect a hidden breast cancer with standard examination and imaging techniques. Fibrocystic changes occur during ovulation and just before menstruation. During these times, hormone level changes often cause the breast cells to retain fluid and develop into nodules or cysts (sacs filled with fluid), which feel like a lump when touched. The nodules or cysts can spread throughout the breast, may be located in one general area or simply appear as one or more large cysts. If the lump is not filled with fluid, it is called a fibro adenoma. Causes The cause is not completely understood, but the changes are believed to be associated with ovarian hormones since the condition usually subsides with menopause, and may vary in consistency during the menstrual cycle. Many hormones aside from estrogen and progesterone also play an important role in causing fibrocystic breasts. Prolactin, growth factor, insulin, and thyroid hormone are some of the other major hormones that are produced outside of the breast tissue, yet act in important ways on the breast. In addition, the breast itself produces hormonal products from its glandular and fat cells. Signals that are released from these hormonal products are sent to neighboring breast cells. The incidence of it is estimated to be over 60% of all women. It is common in women between the ages of 30 and 50, and rare in postmenopausal women. The incidence is lower in women taking birth control pills. The risk factors may include family history and diet (such as excessive dietary fat, and caffeine intake), although these are controversial. Symptoms Pain and lumps in the breast may be breast cancer or infections. They may spread to the armpit. Lumps in the armpit may also occur with metastatic cancer, lymphoma or Hodgkin’s disease. Breast pain may also occur with fibrocystic disease and pregnancy. Symptoms can be on one or both sides, and can reach up to and under the armpit.Many women first notice fibrocystic breast changes in their 30s. At this age, your hormone levels start to vary more than before. Begin in the underarm area. Slowly move your fingers down until they are below your breast. Move your fingers closer toward your nipple and go slowly back up, using the same motion. Use this up-and-down pattern all the way across your breast. Treatment There’s no specific treatment for fibrocystic breast changes. Some simple measures, such as wearing a supportive bra with the correct fit, may provide relief from the pain and discomfort associated with fibrocystic breast changes. Reducing or limiting caffeine in your diet also may help. Signs and symptoms of fibrocystic breast changes often go away completely after menopause. Therapeutic doses of vitamin E are sometimes advised by a medical provider in an effort to control severe symptoms of breast pain and engorgement associated with fibrocystic breast condition. Because vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin which can be toxic in high doses, this therapy should be used only under the supervision of a medical provider. Comments Off » Posted in Uncategorized Tags: Breast Causes Fibrocystic Symptoms Treatment 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Recent Posts Depression in Seniors and What Caregiver Can do to Help For any individual considering the rest medicine ambien negative effects are necessary to know. Simplifying Tai Cheng? High Curler On the internet Casino Person Rewards Sacramento Dentist Offering Emgergency Dental Encouraging the growth of your penis Good Choices for Your Health Medical Billing  in news reports, in search of good ways to find healthcare billing Kinds of Nike Dunks translate individuals brain via basketball shoes or boots to skatboarding Levitra Vardenafil – Helpful Medication For Impotence Erection Problems Due to Radiotherapy Is Usually Improved upon! Fast Ejaculation Medication Priligy Now on Sale – But Manages to do it Produce on Its Promise? How Does Propecia (Finasteride) Aid In The Treating Hair Loss? Nervousness, Insomnia and Tremors – Require Assistance Busting These Criminals? How to discuss Your Constant Discomfort With Your Physician Quicker Related Links Topics About Amenorrhea Bacterial Better Breast Breasts Cancer Care Causes Cure Cures Discharge Disorders during Dysfunction Female from Health Herbs Home Know Libido Mark Marks Menstruation Natural Naturally Pain pregnancy Prenatal Prevent Problems Remedies Sexual Stretch Symptoms tips Treat Treatment Treatments 