
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 29 Feb 2012 21:35:43 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 29 Feb 2012 21:35:43 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Health Information | Institute for Optimum Nutrition Jump to Navigation Login logout Nutrition Courses, Nutritional Therapy Diploma Home About us Board of Trustees Optimum nutrition Our history Contact us Work for us Travel directions Information Publications Subscription Subscribe now Optimum Nutrition Archives ENews Archives Healthnotes Latest news Professional Membership Directory of Nutritional Therapists Find a Nutritonal Therapist List your practice Register now ION Conference Upcoming events Education Nutritional Therapy Diploma Course structure Learning resources Application process Senior academic team Entry requirements Course fees Register for an Open Day Science Access Course Course fees Study options Home Study Course Study materials Course outline Buy Now FAQs Short courses Upcoming courses FAQs Courses in Bristol Consultation The ION Clinic Children's health Digestive health Female health and fertility Fertility MOT Weight management Therapist profiles ION advisory service Teaching Clinic Home › Information › Healthnotes Health Information Prebiotic-Probiotic Combination Combats Children’s Asthma By Kimberly Beauchamp, ND Scientists have uncovered clues about how the gut might help the immune system halt allergic conditions Related Topics Asthma Picking the Best Probiotic Probiotics Help Children Fight Colds A nutritional supplement combining pre- and probiotics may help prevent asthma in children with atopic dermatitis, a type of eczema. In the first study of its kind, scientists have uncovered clues about how the health of the gut might affect immune system health to halt the progression of allergic conditions. Itchy, wheezy, sneezy Atopic dermatitis is a chronic, inflammatory, itching skin disorder that often starts during infancy. Up to 40% of children affected by atopic dermatitis will go on to develop asthma later in childhood. The prevalence of allergic diseases (including atopic dermatitis, asthma, and allergic rhinitis) has increased over the past a few decades. It’s been suggested that changes in the intestinal flora—that is, the “good” bugs that reside on your insides—could be responsible for the observed jump in these conditions. It starts in the gut Probiotics like acidophilus are living microorganisms with beneficial effects in the gut and throughout the body. They can help boost immune function, increase resistance to infection, inhibit the growth of harmful bacteria, and promote healthy digestion. Prebiotics are non-digestible food ingredients, such as fructooligosaccharides, that provide fuel for probiotics to thrive on. Since pre- and probiotics work synergistically, together they are referred to as synbiotics. Researchers from the Netherlands investigated the effect of a formula supplemented with synbiotics on 90 infants with atopic dermatitis. The aim of the study was to see if synbiotics could help prevent children with atopic dermatitis from developing asthma-like symptoms and the need for asthma medications. For 12 weeks, the babies were either given a hydrolysed whey formula with the probiotic Bifidobacterium brevis and the prebiotics GOS (galactooligosaccharides) and FOS (fructooligosaccharides), or a placebo formula without the synbiotics. They underwent blood test for allergies, including those to cats, dogs, and dust mites at the beginning of the study and after one year. Parents kept tabs on their children’s respiratory symptoms and reported them to the investigators. Of the 75 children who completed the study, children in the synbiotic group were 20% less likely to have frequent wheezing and 28% less likely to have wheezing and/or noisy breathing during the follow up period than were children in the placebo group. Babies who received the synbiotic-enriched formula were also much less likely to have to start taking asthma medications. Over the course of the study, 15% of children in the placebo group developed an allergy to cats, whereas none of the children in the synbiotic group did. “These results suggest that this synbiotic mixture prevents asthma-like symptoms,” said lead author of the study, Leontien B. van der Aa of Emma Children’s Hospital in Amsterdam. “The infants that were included in our study will be followed up to age five to six, when they are old enough to determine whether this synbiotic mixture also prevents the development of asthma.” ( Allergy 2011;66:170–7) Kimberly Beauchamp, ND , received her doctoral degree from Bastyr University, the nation’s premier academic institution for science-based natural medicine. She co-founded South County Naturopaths in Wakefield, RI, where she practiced whole family care with an emphasis on nutritional counselling, herbal medicine, detoxification, and food allergy identification and treatment. Her blog, Eat Happy, helps take the drama out of healthy eating with real food recipes and nutrition news that you can use. Dr. Beauchamp is a regular contributor to Healthnotes Newswire . Copyright © 2012 Aisle7. All rights reserved. www.Aisle7.net Learn more about Aisle7, the company. Learn more about the authors of Aisle7 products. Information Publications Subscription Subscribe now Optimum Nutrition Archives ENews Archives Healthnotes Latest news Professional Membership Directory of Nutritional Therapists Find a Nutritonal Therapist List your practice Register now ION Conference Upcoming events Search Search this site: Have a question? Call Us @ 020 8614 7800 Discounts with ION Subscription Join today for fabulous discounts, special offers, invitations to events, the latest nutrition news and lots more… Join ION today Discounts, news, events, recipes…we have something for everyone. Subscribe today! Institute for Optimum Nutrition is an independent educational charity.Registered company number 2724405, regist