
ElyteSport | Pickle Juice About Us Contact 
			Us Customer 
			Service HOME How It Works! SUCCESS 
			STORIES TESTIMONIALS SHOP Pickle Juice By Edward Kane Think fast: What was the biggest news in sports nutrition 
						    last summer? Answer: Pickle juice! Professional football 
						    trainers for a few NFL teams had their players chugging 
						    pickle juice in an effort to rapidly hydrate them. An interesting 
						    concept to say the least, but is pickle juice really the 
						    best way to hydrate the body when it has been depleted of 
						    valuable electrolytes? Pickle juice is basically acetic acid (vinegar) and water 
						    with a bit of salt (sodium chloride) to give it some flavor. 
						    All muscle cells, like the heart, use sodium (Na) to close 
						    or contract the cell, and potassium (K) to relax the cell. 
						    Calcium (Ca) starts the closing process with Na doing the 
						    actual closing; magnesium (Mg) starts the reverse side of 
						    the pump—relaxing. Potassium (K) is the key element responsible 
						    for managing the relaxing process within the cell. In order 
						    for the human body to function properly under physical stress, 
						    all 4 of the mineral electrolytes (sodium, potassium, magnesium, 
						    and calcium) are absolutely required. If they are not replaced, 
						    you wind up with a cramp, or arrhythmia. Both are alleviated 
						    with K and Mg if you can catch it in time. Prolonged effects 
						    of improper replenishment can result in serious injury or 
						    death. Vinegar is used to remove sodium from the body, so drinking 
						    pickle juice will, in a way, tend to help balance the lack 
						    of K and low Mg (the back side of the beat). Generally we 
						    get too much sodium from processed foods like snacks, chips, 
						    etc. For over 20 years our team at BodyBio (makers of ElyteSport) 
						    have been teaching doctors to use vinegar for high blood 
						    pressure because of its ability of acetic acid to lower 
						    Na levels. The vast majority of the medical world uses a 
						    calcium blocker to control (lower) the timing of the pump. 
						    Block the Ca and you lower the beat count. In actuality 
						    you block some of the heart cells from performing. Not the 
						    preferred route. It would be far better to add in the desperately 
						    needed potassium and magnesium rather than lower Ca or Na. There is also an added benefit to having plenty of K and 
						    MG. Quite simply, you increase endurance. One of the principle 
						    reasons for fading under stress is that you run out of K 
						    and MG. The body has a marvelous ability to conserve Na, 
						    but doesn’t do the same with K or Mg. In addition you may 
						    need some nutrients, even a bit of sugar to keep you up, 
						    but the real key lies in the supply of electrolytes. We 
						    will all fade out sooner or later, but those on ElyteSport 
						    have the edge. In essence it’s an electrolyte numbers game. 
						    Check out the comparison chart at elytesport.com. There 
						    is no other product on the market that comes close to replenishing 
						    electrolytes like ElyteSport. Keep the pickle juice in the 
						    pickle jar and reach for ElyteSport when you need serious 
						    electrolyte replenishment! Don’t hesitate to give me a call or send me an email if 
						    you have any questions about hydration or ElyteSport. More: • The E-Lyte Story: Why You Need Electrolytes! • Sugar 
						      Free Electrolytes • Compare 
						      ElyteSport with other "Sports" drinks • Pickle Juice • Taking A Peek 
						      Inside a Muscle Cramp • Night 
						      Cramps • ElyteSport 
						      Preloading References: • References 
						      depicting the difficulty within the Medical Community to 
						      Resolve "Cramping" The information contained 
						in this web site is for educational purposes only and is 
						not intended or implied to be a substitute for professional 
						medical advice. Inclusion here does not imply any endorsement 
						or recommendation.  Always seek the advice of your 
						physician or other qualified medical provider for all medical 
						problems prior to starting any new regiment. These statements have not been evaluated 
						by the FDA. These products are not intended to treat, diagnose, 
						cure, or prevent any disease. References • Sodium 
						and Potassium • Athletes 
						and Electrolytes • Potassium 
						and Magnesium • Calcium 
						and Essential Fatty Acids • Calcium 
						and Phosphorus • Boron 
						and Calcium and 