
Whooping Cough: Treatment and Prevention Skip to content Home & News WebMD Home WebMD News Home Free Health Newsletters WebMD Community & Experts See All Expert Blogs Health A-Z ADD/ADHD Allergies Allergy TV Alzheimer's Anxiety Disorders Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Bipolar Disorder Bipolar TV Breast Cancer Cancer Cancer Communities Cholesterol Cold & Flu Colorectal Cancer COPD Depression Depression TV Diabetes Erectile Dysfunction Eye Health Fibromyalgia Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Herpes Hypertension IBS Incontinence/OAB Inflammatory Bowel Menopause Mental Health Migraines Multiple Sclerosis Osteoporosis Pain Management Parkinson's Disease Rheumatoid Arthritis Sexual Conditions Shingles Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Stroke See All Topics Videos A-Z Community & Experts Experts A-Z First Aid A-Z Games A-Z Tests & Tools A-Z Slideshows A-Z Drugs & Medications Center Find or Review a Drug Pill Identifier Drug News Mobile Drug Information Find a Vitamin or Supplement First Aid & Emergencies WebMD Community & Experts Healthy Living Women's Health Men's Health Pet Health Oral Health Emotional Health Mental Health Communities Green Living 50+: Live Better, Longer Sex & Relationships Healthy Beauty Healthy Skin TV Sexual Health Communities See All Topics Women's Health Communities Skin & Beauty Community Men's Health Communities Healthy Eating & Diet Healthy Eating & Diet Food & Cooking Food-o-Meter Fit-o-Meter Fitness & Exercise Food & Fitness Planner Portion Size Helper Personal Diet Evaluator BMI Plus Calculator Eating & Diet Communities Digestive Disorders Communities Parenting & Pregnancy Parenting Pregnancy Children's Health Children's Vaccines Newborn & Baby New! Raising Fit Kids New! WebMD for Kids Parenting Communities Pregnancy Communities Trying to Conceive Communities Teen Health Teen Girls New! Teen Boys WebMD FIT Teen Food Move Recharge Mood Pet Health Healthy Dogs Healthy Cats Healthy Pets Community Enter Search Keywords: Other search tools: Symptoms | Doctors | Medical Dictionary Find us on: WebMD Home Children's Health Children's Health Feature Stories Email a Friend Print Article Children's Health Tools & Resources Is Dirt Good for Kids? What's to Blame for Kids' Cavities? From Fit: Yummy Foods for Kids Itchy Rash: Is It Psoriasis? Managing Your Child's Eczema How to Have 'the Talk' This article is from the WebMD Feature Archive Font Size A A A Whooping Cough: What You Need to Know An Interview With CDC Infectious Disease Expert Tom Clark By Stephanie  Watson WebMD Feature Reviewed by Laura J. Martin, MD What do we all need to know about whooping cough (pertussis)? WebMD asked epidemiologist Tom Clark, MD, MPH, of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. What is whooping cough? Recommended Related to Children Talking with Your Teen -- David Elkind, PhD By David Elkind
What's the matter? Nothing. Where are you going? Out. Do you
want to talk? No. Does this sound like typical communication between you and
your teen? If so, explore these tips for starting an open and frank discussion
about drugs, sex, self-esteem, and other vital issues. David Elkind, PhD, was
our guest.

  
    The opinions expressed
herein are the guest's alone and have not been reviewed by a WebMD physician.
If you have questions about your health, you should consult... Read the Talking with Your Teen -- David Elkind, PhD article > > Whooping cough is a bacterial infection that's highly contagious, and it's also vaccine preventable. Especially in young kids and unvaccinated people, it causes a severe cough, which is the reason for the name, "whooping cough." What kind of infection causes whooping cough? It's caused by bacteria called Bordetella pertussis . What are the symptoms of whooping cough? It starts like a cold, with congestion and upper respiratory symptoms, and then progresses to a cough. You have fits of coughing that are so severe that you can't stop or catch your breath. It's that severe, prolonged cough, and especially the characteristic paroxysms [uncontrolled fits] of cough that trigger physicians to be worried about pertussis and try to confirm the diagnosis. The symptoms are pretty nonspecific, and so doctors don't always suspect it. Pertussis is high on the list if that whoop is present. The “whoop” sounds like a sharp gasping intake of breath after all the air has been coughed out of your lungs. If it's not, it's likely to go unrecognized because there aren't really other signs and symptoms that are as characteristic. How does whooping cough spread from person to person? It spreads through close contact with oral secretions or respiratory droplets. So it's easily spread through the cough, especially when people are in close contact, like living in the same house with a person who has whooping cough. It can also be spread through sneezes - anything that spreads respiratory secretions. Who is most at risk for whooping cough? The highest incidence is in infants, and they're also at greatest risk for complications if they develop the disease. In fact, the great majority of fatal cases in the country each year are in infants less than 6 months of age, especially if they're too young to have received their first vaccination. How is whooping cough treated? It's a bacterial infection, so it can be treated with antibiotics, usually erythromycin or a family of antibiotics like erythromycin. Erythromycin is taken for 2 weeks. If antibiotics are recommended, they should take all the doses and finish the recommended course. It's important for a couple of reasons. If the child's doctor feels that antibiotics are necessary, it's important to take the doses on time to develop and maintain the appropriate antibiotic levels in the blood to clear the infection. And missing a dose or stopping early can sometimes result in a relapse. It's also important in general, because one of the things that promotes antibiotic resistance in bacteria is stopping and starting [antibiotics]. 1 | 2 | 3 Next Page > parenting and children's health newsletter Vaccinations, developmental milestones, healthy eating. Keep your little ones safe and strong. Sign up for WebMD's Parenting and Children's Health newsletter. Top Picks Yuck! The Dirtiest Places Kids Will Find Psoriasis: Assess Your Child’s Symptoms How Important Is Fluoride for Kids' Teeth? Get Movin’ and Groovin’ With Grover From "Sesame Street" Causes of Hearing Loss in Children Sick Child? 5 Ways to Stop Colds From Spreading Further Reading: Whooping Cough and Pertussis Slideshow from WebMD Whooping Cough Study Whooping Cough (Pertussis)-Treatment Overview Whooping Cough (Pertussis)-Exams and Tests Whooping Cough (Pertussis)-Home Treatment Whooping Cough (Pertussis)-Symptoms Whooping Cough (Pertussis)-Topic Overview See All Whooping Cough Topics Whooping Cough Home Medical Reference Features Video Slideshows & Images Health Tools News Archive Children's Health Home Children's Health News Children's Health Reference Children's Health Videos Health & Baby Videos Parenting Community Children's Health Questions and Answers Children's Health Glossary Children's Health Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Get Started 3 Keep It Going 4 Expert Insights 5 Of Special Interest 6 Help & Support Top 12 Children's Topics 1 . Flu Vaccine 2 . Lice 3 . Toddler Meltdowns 4 . Eczema 5 . Sleep Problems 6 . Fever 7 . Constipation 8 . Skin Problems 9 . Puberty 10 . Meningitis 11 . Ear Infections 12 . Kids' Height Predictor Related to Children's Health Ask the Dentist Baby Development Baby Nutrition Bottle Feeding Breastfeeding First Aid Pill Identifier Teething More Related Topics Healthy Living Centers Baby & Newborn Balance FDA Center on WebMD Fitness Food & Cooking Healthy Beauty Healthy Eating & Diet Parenting Pet Health Pregnancy Raising Fit Kids Teen Health Women's Health Today in Children’s Health Tool Are Your Kids Germ Magnets? fit Article Kids' Top 6 Worries and How to Fix Them Article Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Video Candy: Leading Cause of Kids' Cavities? Article Bathroom Germs You Really Can Catch Health Check Is Your Child's Eczema Under Control? fit Tool Get Kids Moving With This Scavenger Hunt Tool Girls and Puberty: Had the Talk? Tool Family Vaccine Manager Slideshow Red, Itchy Eyes? Help for Eye Allergies New Free Healthy Baby App for iPhone Quiz Your Guide to the Flu Vaccine Women's Health Newsletter Find out what women really need. Submit WebMD Special Sections Head Lice Slideshow: What Parents Should Know Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Injectable RA Treatment Hearing Aid Not Enough? Joint Pain Help Center Musculoskeletal Pain Treating Depression In-depth coverage: Is Your Psoriasis Treatment on Target? | Your Guide to a Healthy Mouth | Rheumatoid Arthritis Health Check | Teen Girls and Puberty | Diabetes and Your Body Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site Reviewed by Trust-E site privacy statement HonCode: Health on the Net Foundation About WebMD | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Sponsor Policy | Site Map | Careers | Contact Us Advertise With Us | WebMD Corporate | Medscape Reference | eMedicineHealth | RxList | Medscape | MedicineNet | BootsWebMD First Aid | WebMD the Magazine | WebMD Health Record | WebMD Mobile | Newsletters ©2005-2012 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical