
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 22:10:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Houston Dental Sealants |Houston Uptown Dentists Karen L. Brune, D.D.S. Call: 713.622.6112 Amanda K. Juarez, D.D.S. Home About Our Office Meet the Doctors Meet Our Team Referral Program Our Blog Cosmetic Dentistry Smile Makeovers Smile Design Cosmetic Bonding Porcelain Veneers Lumineers Teeth Whitening Porcelain Crowns Gum Recontouring Enamel Microabrasion General Dentistry Preventive Dentistry Dental Implants Full-Mouth Reconstruction Tooth-Colored Fillings Eating Disorders Other Services Gallery Contact Us Patient Resources Dental Sealants (BPA - Free) Our practice strongly advocates sealants in both adults and children. A sealant is a resin material that fills in the pits and grooves (chewing surfaces) of teeth to help prevent future decay. Most cavities form in the pits and grooves of teeth in the back of your mouth. Sealants serve as a barrier, protecting your posterior teeth from decay. Our sealants do not contain the chemical BPA (Bisphenol-A) that the FDA has advised may be harmful to children. Our hygienists and dentists will place sealants without the use of anesthetic or drilling. We feel that properly placed and maintained sealants can prevent tooth decay for a lifetime. The dental care you need with experience you can trust. Meet with our team at Houston Uptown Dentists to find out how our cosmetic dentistry and general dentistry services can deliver the smile you have always wanted. Located in the heart of the Galleria/Uptown Houston district , our office is waiting to welcome you and your family. Call our Uptown Houston, TX dental office today to schedule your personal smile consultation with Dr. Brune or Dr. Juarez . Cosmetic Denistry Preventive Dentistry Dental Implants Full-Mouth Reconstruction Tooth-Colored Fillings Eating Disorders Other Services Home About Our Office Cosmetic Dentistry General Dentistry Gallery Contact Us Smile Makeovers Smile Design Cosmetic Bonding Porcelain Veneers Lumineers Teeth Whitening Porcelain Crowns Gum Recontouring Enamel Microabrasion Four Oaks P