
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 04:48:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Trainee hypnotherapist puts himself in trance - Hypnotherapy News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Trainee Hypnotherapist Puts Himself In Trance 07/01/2010 Trainee hypnotherapist puts himself in trance by Tanisha Sakhawat A trainee hypnotherapist accidentally hypnotised himself for five hours, after practising his skill in front of a mirror. This is an example of the dangers of not having enough training and attempting to practise alone. Helmut Kichmeier, a 27 year old British trainee and entertainer was found by his wife staring blankly into space in their North London flat. The entertainer had recently learnt the skill in order to help him to swallow swords during his stage act. Mr Kichmeier's wife grew concerned and called London Hypnotherapist , Dr Ray Roberts, Kichmeier's mentor, shortly after finding her husband. Dr Roberts gave Mr Kichmeier's wife instructions to hold the phone to his ear while his mentor talked him out of his hypnotic state. This was a rare occasion, yet shows that hypnotherapy can deeply affect people. As such, hypnotherapy can be channelled in a positive way such as helping someone to loose weight, overcome anxiety or jealousy and to stop smoking. Hypnotherapy requires the patient to believe in the treatment and sends them into a deep sense of relaxation, but never takes them to an unconscious level, you are aware of everything at a hypnotic level, whilst not wishing to be physically active. To find out more about Hypnotherapy at The Therapy Lounge  click here Online hypnosis experimen : Next → ← Previous : Anti-depressants only eff By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2