Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Burns MoonDragon's Health & Wellness BURNS For "Informational Use Only". For more detailed information, contact your
health care provider about options that may be available for your specific situation. BASIC INFORMATION DESCRIPTION OVERVIEW The skin is the body's largest organ, and one of its most complex. Among other things, it helps to 
regulate temperature and it serves as the first line of defense against infection. The skin 
serves as a barrier that prevents foreign substances, such as bacteria, from 
entering the body. It also prevents the loss of body fluids. When the skin is damaged, such 
as by a burn, it can no longer perform these essential functions. A serious burn on the skin is one of the most traumatic injuries that the body can sustain. When large 
areas of skin are destroyed, even in second-degree burns, the patient may experience fever, circulatory 
disorders and shock, which require the care of a health care provider. Less severe burns can be 
treated at home, usually with cold-water treatment for pain or herbal remedies that help soothe 
the skin. About 45,000 Americans are hospitalized for burn treatment each year, approximately half to the 125 
specialized burn treatment centers, and half to the nation's other 5,000  hospitals. About 4,500 
of these people die, according to the American Burn Association. As large as they are, these 
figures represent a significant decline in the number of incidents, and the severity of burn injuries, 
in the past 25 years, partly due to advances in treatment that lessen the initial shock and prevent 
fluid loss and infection. Health care providers have also improved their techniques for surgically removing 
burned tissues from the wound as soon as possible and for subsequently transferring new skin grafts 
to the damaged area(s). In addition, specialized nutrition focusing on specific nutrients has been 
developed and shown to improve recovery and speed the healing process for both minor and serious burns. BURN CLASSIFICATION Burns are classified according to the following characteristics: Depth. Extent (amount of the body injured by the burns. Cause or type. DEPTH OF BURNS There are three basic classifications of burns, depending on severity. First-Degree Burns affect only the superficial outermost layer of the skin, causing redness and 
sensitivity to the touch with minor or moderate pain. Sunburn is usually a first-degree burn, which 
usually heals in about one week, with or without treatment. Partial-Thickness or Second-Degree Burns extend somewhat into underlying skin layers,
but do not damage the deepest layers of the skin. Second-degree burns are characterized
by redness and blistering. The blistering, in some cases, may not form for
several hours. Fluid loss may occur with acute moderate to severe pain because nerve
endings are damaged. Partial-thickness burns may require medical treatment. They usually
heal within two to three weeks. Some scarring may occur. Full-Thickness or Third-Degree Burns involve the entire thickness of the skin, all layers,
and possibly underlying tissues such as muscles are destroyed. The skin may be red, or
it may be white or yellowish, or leathery and black. There is usually little or no pain
because the nerves in the skin are severely damaged or entirely destroyed. Because the skin
has been destroyed, people with third-degree burns lose large quantities of body fluids and
are susceptible to shock and infection. Expect scarring to be extensive. EXTENT OF BURNS The Rule of Nines is a method for determining what percentage of the body has been
burned. Although this rule is most useful for EMTs and paramedics who report information to
the hospital from the field, anyone should be able to roughly estimate the extent of a burn. The figure to the right shows the various divisions that have been made for the Rule of Nines.
In an adult, the head and arms each equal 9 percent of the total body surface. The front and
back of the trunk and each leg are equal to 18 percent of the total body surface. For example, if one-half of the back and all of the right arm of a person has been burned,
the burn involves about 18 percent of the total body area. The Rule of Nines is slightly
modified for young children, but the adult figures serve as an adequate guide. CAUSE OR TYPE OF BURNS Burns are injuries to the skin and the underlying tissues and are caused by exposure to the
following elements: Heat (thermal burns). Chemicals. Electricity. THERMAL BURNS Thermal burns are caused by heat. The first step when treating thermal burns is to put out
the fire. Superficial first degree burns can be quite painful, but if there is clean,
cold water available, placing the burning area in cold water helps to reduce pain. Clean
towels wet with cold water can be placed on superficial burns. Once the burned area has been cooled, cover it with a dry,
sterile dressing or the large sterile cloth (found in your first responder life support kit)
called a burn sheet. Caution : Do not apply burn ointments, butter, grease, or cream to any burn! Partial-thickness second-degree burns should be cooled if the burn area is still warm.
Cooling does several things: it helps reduce pain and it actually stops the heat from
cooking the skin. Cooling also helps stop the swelling caused by partial-thickness burns. If blisters are present, handle the skin very carefully to prevent breaking the blisters.
Intact skin, even if blistered, provides an excellent barrier against infection. If the blisters
are broken, the danger of infection increases. Use only sterile water if the blisters
are broken. Cover partial-thickness second-degree burns with a dry, sterile dressing or
burn sheet. Full-thickness third-degree burns, if still warm, should also be cooled with sterile water only
to keep the heat from damaging any more skin and tissue, unless transport is immediate.
Remove clothing by cutting it away from the burned area. However, leave any clothing that
is stuck to the burn. Cover full-thickness burns with a
dry, sterile dressing or burn sheet. People who have suffered large superficial burns and all people with any amount of partial-
thickness or full-thickness burns must be treated for shock and transported for medical care. RESPIRATORY BURNS A burn to any part of the airway is a respiratory burn. If a person has been burned around the
head and face or while in a confined space (such as in a burning house), you should look for
the following signs and symptoms of respiratory burns: Singed nose hairs. Blackened nasal mucous membranes. Difficulty breathing. Pain while breathing. Burns around the face. Unconsciousness as a result of fire. Watch the burned person carefully. Breathing problems that result from this type of burn can
develop rapidly or slowly over several hours. Administer oxygen as soon as it is available and
be prepared to perform CPR. If you suspect that a person has suffered respiratory burns,
arrange for prompt transport for medical treatment. If the person has injuries in addition to the burn injuries, treat them before the person is
transported. For example, if a person has suffered a partial-thickness burn of the arm and has
also fallen off a ladder and fractured both legs, splint the fractures and place the person
on a backboard, in addition to treating the burn injury. CHEMICAL BURNS Many strong substances can cause chemical burns to the skin. Such chemicals include strong
acids (such as battery acid) or strong alkalis (such as drain cleaners). The longer the
chemical remains in contact with the skin, the more damage occurs to the skin and underlying
tissues. Chemicals are extremely dangerous to the eyes and can cause superficial, partial-
thickness, or full-thickness burns to the skin. Water should be used to flush chemical burns
as quickly as possible to remove the chemicals from the skin. The person may need to be
transported for medical treatment. PREVENTIVE MEASURES Always be careful with any substance, whether it be hot water, sunlight, chemicals, fire, 
or any other substance that may cause a burn injury. When bathing, check temperature of bath water before putting yourself or someone else 
in it. Check the thermostat setting on your hot water heater and make sure it is set at 
an appropriate temperature to prevent hot water burns. This is especially important for children 
and the elderly. Check food temperatures before feeding children or the elderly. Using a microwave oven 
to reheat food can be dangerous because of the uneven temperatures the oven produces. When cooking on the kitchen stove, make sure all pot handles are turned inward away from 
the edge and grasping children's hands. Supervise children around hot materials. Store smoking materials, matches, lighters, combustible materials and substances in a 
safe place and in safe containers. Supervise the elderly or children when these items are being used. Read and understand the use of any chemical substances that may be used in the home or 
at work. Always become familiar with precautions, safeguards and treatment information. Have on hand necessary first aid supplies to take care of any accidents that may occur and  
know the signs of shock and when to transport for medical assistance. MoonDragon's Lab Information: Fire Safety MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Shock EXPECTED OUTCOME Outcome is dependent upon the severity of the burn. POSSIBLE COMPLICATIONS Infection. Loss of body fluids resulting in dehydration, from mild to severe, depending upon the
severity of the burn and the treatment received. Scarring. Cosmetic surgery may need to be considered in severe burn cases. Permanent disability. Death may result in severe burn cases. TREATMENT GENERAL MEASURES If you suspect a third-degree, full-thickness burn, see your health care provider at once 
or go to the emergency room of the nearest medical facility. Do not attempt to treat the 
injury, do not remove clothing that is stuck to the burned area, and do not put ice or 
non-sterile water on the burn. A third degree burn requires profession treatment. Cool a first-degree superficial burn or a second-degree at once to reduce pain and 
swelling. Immerse the area in cool running water, or use cool compresses for a minimum of 
10 minutes. Do not use ice water or ice cubes, and do not stop prematurely. While cooling the 
burn, remove rings, wristwatches, belts, or anything else that could constrict the 
injured area once it begins to swell. Also take away any loose clothing that has not adhered 
to the burned area. To remove hot tar, wax, or melted plastic from the skin, use ice water to harden the
heated substance. ALOE VERA HELPS BURNS HEAL The gel-like juice of the aloe vera leaves has a cooling effect 
on fresh burns. It also aids in healing and promotes the regeneration of the skin. Aloe also reduces 
inflammation and moisturizes the skin. While aloe vera gel may be purchased commercially, you get the 
best results from using the fresh leaves. Cut open the thick, fleshy leaves and place them directly on the 
injured area. You can also scoop the pith out of the leaves and spread it on the wound. Aloe plants are 
desert-warm weather plants that available from most greenhouses or nurseries and are easy to grow 
indoors in cold regions by putting them in a sunny window and ignoring them (too much watering kills them). 
They grow outdoors in the southern states where temperatures stay above freezing. After a minor burn has been cooled, apply aloe vera gel (fresh if possible, directly from
the plant) or a product such as Burn Gel from Aerobic Life Industries, which contains aloe
vera, to ease pain and promote healing. Caution: Do not put oils, greasy ointments, or butter on
burns. Do not break blisters. POTATO COMPRESS Potato compresses are a traditional remedy for mild burns. Grate a 
raw potato and spread it on a damp linen cloth; place this on the wound. Be sure to change the compress 
when the pain starts to worsen. The potato cools the burn and helps relieve inflammation. While your body is recovering from a burn, especially a partial-thickness second-degree or 
full-thickness third degree burn - change your diet to provide a high protein intake and high mineral-rich 
foods and up to 5,000 or 6,000 calories per day. These are needed for tissue repair and healing. Watch for signs of infection, odor, pus, or extreme redness in the area of the burn. Protect 
the injury from exposure to sun. Drink plenty of fluids throughout the healing phase. Potassium rich juice and green drinks are 
recommended for fast tissue repair. MoonDragon's Nutrition Therapy: Juicing Keep burn injuries elevated to minimize swelling and promote healing. This is especially 
important for burns on the hands, legs, or feet. Keep the burn lightly covered to minimize the chance of bacterial infection. Try adding 1 tablespoon of powdered vitamin C to 1 quart of cold water and spraying it on the 
burn site. This has been found to enhance healing. Or try using cold clay poultices. MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Poultices If infection starts to set in, apply honey 3 times a day after gently washing the area 
with hydrogen peroxide. APPLE CIDER VINEGAR COMPRESS Apple cider vinegar soothes the skin. You can use cider-vinegar 
compresses as a treatment for first- and second-degree burns. Cider Vinegar prevents infection, soothes 
pain and kills germs. Moisten a clean cloth with cider vinegar that is undiluted and place it on the 
injured area. Repeat often. Do not apply this treatment to open wounds. Herbal Remedies: Organic Apple Cider Vinegar (Mother), Dynamic Health, 16 fl. oz. Dynamic Health Organic Apple Cider Vinegar contains "Mother" of vinegar that is formed naturally in 
unpasturized vinegar by the acetobacter. Made from the juices of organic certified grown apples. Hygiene is very important when dealing with any type of burn. Keep the area clean. A study in the effects of high-dose vitamin C therapy for third-degree full thickness 
burns that was reported in the Journal of Burn Care and Rehabilitation concluded that 
persons with serious burns should immediately begin taking vitamin C. Herbal Remedies: Citric Acid Powder, Food Grade, 100% Pure, NOW Foods, 4 oz. Citric Acid powder is useful in sprouting, canning, drying or freezing to preserve Vitamin C content, 
retard spoilage by bacterial growth, and prevent discoloration. Herbal Remedies: C The Change Ester C Serum, 87% Certified Organic, Kiss My Face A generous mixture of potent antioxidants, including patented vitamin ester C, the leading antioxidant, 
to stimulate collagen production, refine wrinkles, and to heal and rebuild damaged skin. Applied topically to burned skin, dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), a byproduct of wood processing, 
has been reported to have a remarkable ability to relieve pain and promote healing. Note : 
Only DMSO from a health food store should be used for healing purposes. Commercial-grade DMSO 
found in hardware stores is not suitable. The use of DMSO may result in a garlicky body odor. 
This is temporary, and is not a cause for concern. Herbal Remedies: DMSO / Dimethylsulfoxide Roll-on, 70% DMSO, 30% Aloe Vera, 3 fl. oz. Herbal Remedies: DMSO Spray With Aloe Vera, 8 fl. oz. Clinic Services pure liquid DMSO is used for various applications. Contains 70% DMSO which is 99.9% 
pure concentrate and 30% Aloe Vera, a plant specially known as the "burn plant" and is used to help 
promote healing from all types of burns. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Sunburn MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Pain Control MEDICATION For third-degree full thickness burns, your health care provider may prescribe silver sulfadiazine 
cream (Silvadene). Cautions: Reactions to silver sulfadiazine are rare, but they can occur. A medically supervised program for a more serious burn, or a burn in a sensitive location, 
may include the use of antibiotics, debridement to remove dead tissue, hydrotherapy to loosen 
dead skin, and physical therapy or splinting to prevent contractures (permanent muscular contractions). In cases of severe burns, hyperbaric oxygen therapy may be employed to reduce edema, scarring, and contracture.  
This treatment also improves the chances that a skin graft will take. Severe burns often need to be treated with skin grafts to help restore the damaged skin. Healthy 
upper-layer skin from another part of the body can be transplanted to the burned area, but people with 
large burns often do not have enough of their own skin for transplanting. There are several 
biotechnological companies that make an artificial skin from collagen, a fibrous protein, and this 
serves as a scaffold to help promote growth of new skin cells and blood vessels, and also to 
temporarily protect the wounded area. ACTIVITY Restrictions depend on the severity of the burn. Plenty of rest is needed for proper healing. Drink plenty of fluids. When the skin is burned, it loses its protective function, and tissue fluid, 
called lymph , escapes. To compensate for this loss of fluid, make sure you drink a great deal of 
liquid, preferably mineral water or herbal teas to replace the lost electrolytes (minerals). DIET, SUPPLEMENTS & NUTRIENTS HERBS Herbs, poultices and compresses have proven to be very effective in caring for minor burns. In addition, 
there are many herbal and homeopathic remedies you can consider as an adjunct to traditional treatment. Aloe Vera pulp, gel, or liquid can be applied to the burn as needed to relieve pain and 
speed healing. Herbal Remedies: Aloe Vera Skin Gel, Herbal Aloe Force, Organically Grown Unprocessed Whole Raw Aloe 
Vera, 4 fl. oz. Rejuvenating and moisturizing, more potent and effective than the fresh aloe plant itself. 
100% Bio-Protected Aloe Vera. No applied heat at any time from field to bottle. Herbal Remedies: Aloe Vera Gel, NOW Foods, 1 Gallon (Also Available in 32 fl. oz.) NOW Foods Aloe Vera Gel is made from organic aloe vera juice. Based on its soothing, cooling properties, 
many refer to Aloe Vera simply as the medicine plant. Externally, it has been used throughout history to ease the discomfort of sunburns, minor wounds, cuts, scrapes and rashes. Many researchers believe 
that aloe can enhance the body's ability to heal by stimulating the activity of collagen and elastin - 
two compounds responsible for healthy tissue integrity. Goldenseal is a natural antibiotic that helps to prevent infection. It can be taken in pill or 
extract form, or used in a poultice and applied to the burned area. Caution : Do 
not take goldenseal internally on a daily basis for more than one week at a time, and do not use it 
during pregnancy. If you have a history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or glaucoma, 
use it only under a health care provider's supervision. Bayberry , Black Tea , Green Tea , Blackberry Leaves , Sumac Leaves , 
Sweet Gum, and White Oak Bark contain tannic acid, which has been used in clinics for surface burns that have begun 
to heal. These herbs can be used as teas and as wet compresses. Horsetail and Slippery Elm help skin tissues to heal. Calendula , applied topically to the burned area as a gel or ointment, is effective as an 
anti-inflammatory agent and antiseptic. Herbal Remedies: Calendula Gel, Califlora (Relief For First Aid & Sunburn), Homeopathic Booericke 
& Taffel, 2.75 oz. Califlora Calendula Gel is the ideal pain reliever for a wide variety of skin conditions including 
sunburns. It contains a therapeutic 10% tincture of Calendula, an official homeopathic medicine 
prepared from the fresh, flowering tops of the annual herb Calendula Officinalis in accordance with 
The Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States (HPUS). Herbal Remedies: Calendula Cram (Marigold), Nature Works, 4 fl. oz. Calendula Cream blends natural calendula extract in a base of avocado, jojoba and natural Vitamin E 
to moisturize, soften and protect your skin against environmental influences. Calendula Officinalis 
(Marigold) is widely recognized for its proven ability to care for all manner fo skin problems, from 
chapped hands and open wounds. It is particularly suited for dry, sensitive and irritated skin that 
needs soothing care. Comfrey herbal compress can be used by taking comfrey leaf and Wheat Germ Oil and applying it to the burned area. It is a natural antibiotic that helps to 
prevent infection. Caution: Comfrey is recommended for external use only. Tea Tree Oil is effective for minor burns, primarily as an antiseptic and disinfectant. Tea Tree Oil 
helps to soothe the burned area and keep burns from becoming infected. It is safe for both 
children and adults. Apply the oil, topically, directly to the affected burned areas. It immediately 
eases pain and speeds up the healing process. Make a tea infusion of by bringing 1 tablespoon each of St. John's Wort Leave and Flowers and Comfrey Root to a boil in 2 cups of water. Strain. Rinse the wound with the tea and place the 
compress on the wound. Lavender Essential Oil is also effective for the treatment of burns. The oil may be used undiluted 
by rubbing several drops onto the skin or placing it on a gauze or a cotton ball and applying it to the 
burn. HOMEOPATHIC REMEDIES Cantharis in 6X, 6C, 30C or 200C doses. Cantharis is good for all types of burns, especially 
for those with blistering. Take a few pellets of a low dosage every 15 to 20 minutes or a higher 
dose every hour. Reduce if symptoms improve. Causticum in 6X, 6C, 30C or 200C doses. Causticum helps chemical burns and skin that fails 
to heal following a burn. NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENTS The following nutrients are important for healing once appropriate local treatment has been administered. 
Unless otherwise specified, the following recommended doses are for those over the age of 18. For a 
child between 12 and 17 years old, reduce the dose to 3/4 the recommended amount. For a child between 
6 and 12 years old, use 1/2 the recommended dose, and for a child under 6, use 1/4 the recommended amount. NUTRIENTS Supplement Suggested Dosage Comments Very Important Colloidal Silver Apply topically as directed on label. A natural antibiotic and disinfectant. Promotes healing. For Severe 
burns, use spray form. Colloidal Silver, Trace Minerals, 8 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver Liquid, Silva Solution, Super Strength Pro 50, 8 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver, Silva Pro 50 Spray, 2 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver Pump Spray, Silva Solution, 2 fl. oz. Zinc 30 mg daily. do not exceed a total of 100 mg daily from all supplements. Needed for healing of tissues. Zinc Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 100 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver & Zinc Lozenges, Silva Solution, 90 Lozenges , Zinc Lozenges W/ Echinacea & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 23 mg, 60 Lozenges , Zinc (Chelated), 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 30 mg, 100 Caps Free-Form Amino Acid Complex As directed on label. Important in the healing of tissues. Amino 1000 Complete, NOW Foods, 120 Caps Amino 1500, Chewable Blend of 20 Amino Acids, Predigested, NOW Foods, 150 Tabs Liquid Kyolic Garlic As directed on label. Important for tissues repair. Promotes healing. Natural antibiotic. Kyolic Liquid Aged Garlic Extract, Cardiovascular, Vegetarian, Wakunaga Kyolic, 4 fl. oz. Vitamin B-1 As directed on label. Important for tissues repair. Vitamin B-1 (Thiamine) HCl (Hydrochloric Acid), 100% Natural, 100 mg, 100 Caps Potassium 99 mg daily. Needed to replace potassium lost from burns. Potassium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 340 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Potassium Chelate, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 99 mg, 100 Caps , Potassium Chloride Powder, NOW Foods, Vegetarian, 8 oz. Vitamin A 100,000 IU daily for one month, then reduce to 50,000 IU daily. If you 
are pregnant, do not exceed 10,000 IU daily. Needed for tissue repair. Use emulsion form for easier assimilation 
and greater safety at high doses. Vitamin A, 10,000 IU, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 100 Softgels Plus Natural Beta-Carotene Or Carotenoid Complex (Betatene) 25,000 IU daily. As directed on label. An antioxidant and precursor of vitamin A. Beta Carotene (Natural Dunaliella Salina), Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 25,000 IU, 100 Softgels , Multi-Carotene Antioxidant, Nature's Way, 60 Softgels Vitamin B Complex 100 mg of each B vitamin daily, with meals (amounts of individual vitamins 
in a complex will vary). Important in the healing of skin tissue. Ultimate B (Vitamin B Complex), Nature's Secret, 60 Tabs , Vitamin B-100 Complex, w/ Coenzyme B-2, Nature's Way, 631 mg, 100 Caps Vitamin B-12 1,000 mcg twice daily. Needed for protein synthesis and cell formation. Use a lozenge or 
sublingual form. Vitamin B-12 Complex Liquid, NOW Foods, 2 fl. oz. , Vitamin B-12, Nature's Way, 2000 mcg, 100 Sublingual Lozenges , Vitamin B-12 Liquid Supplement, 50 mcg, With Vitamin B-9 (Folic Acid), 400 mcg, 1 oz. Vitamin B-12, California Natural, 1000 mcg, 60 Tabs , Vitamin B-12 LipoSpray, NOW Foods, 2 fl. oz. Vitamin C With Bioflavonoids 10,000 mg immediately after a burn; 2,000 mg 3 times a day thereafter 
until healed. An antioxidant that is essential in the formation of collagen; promotes 
the healing of burns. Vitamin C Liquid w/ Rose Hips & Bioflavonoids, Kosher, Natural Citrus Flavor, Dynamic Health, 1000 mg, 16 fl. oz. , Ester C With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 1000 mg, 90 Tabs , Vitamin C 1000 With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 VCaps , The Right C, Nature's Way, 1000 mg, 120 Tabs Vitamin E Start with 200 IU daily and increase slowly to 1,600 IU daily.  
Also open a capsule and apply the oil directly to the scar once healing has begun. Needed for healing and to prevent scarring. Ester E Natural Vitamin E, California Natural, 400 IU, 60 Softgels , Vitamin E, 400 IU, 100% Natural, NOW Foods, 100 Gels , Vitamin E-1000, NOW Foods, 1000 IU, 100 Gels , Vitamin E, d-alpha-tocopherol, 400 IU, 100 Softgels Important Essential Fatty Acids (Flaxseed Oil & Primrose Oil are good sources) As directed on label. Speeds healing. Ultimate Oil, Essential Fatty Acids Supplement, Nature's Secret, 90 SoftGels , Essential Fatty Acids For Baby & Children, Organic, 8 fl oz. , Barlean's Flax Oil, 100% Highest Lignan Content, Organic, Pesticide & Herbicide Free, 16 fl. oz. , Barlean's Flax Oil, Highest Lignan, 1000 mg, 250 Caps , Barlean's Evening Primrose Oil With Gamma Linolenic Acid (GLA), 1300 mg, 120 SoftGels , Evening Primrose Oil, NOW Foods, 100% Pure, 4 fl. oz. Selenium 200 mcg daily. If you are pregnant, do not exceed 40 mcg daily. Needed for tissue elasticity. Provides antioxidant protection at the 
cellular level. Selenium Supplement, Yeast Free, NOW Foods, 200 mcg, 180 Caps , Selenium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 50 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Ionic Selenium, Trace Minerals, 300 mcg, 2 fl. oz. , Selenium, 100% Natural, Nature's way, 200 mcg, 100 Caps Helpful All Purpose Bactericide Spray Apply Topically as directed on label. Kills bacteria & prevents infection. Calcium 1,500 mg daily. Promotes healthy skin. Calcium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 700 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Liquid Calcium W/ConcenTrace, Orange Vanilla, Trace Minerals, 1000 mg, 32 fl. oz. , Cal-Mag Pre-Chelated Calcium & Magnesium, Vital Earth, 240 Gelcaps Magnesium 750 mg daily. Loss of body fluids increases the need for magnesium. Magnesium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 350 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Just An Ounce Calcium & Magnesium Liquid, Almond Flavor, 16 fl. oz. , Calcium & Magnesium Mineral Complex, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 500 mg / 250 mg, 250 Caps Vitamin D 400 IU daily. Needed for calcium uptake. Vitamin D, NOW Foods, 2000 IU, 120 SoftGels , Vitamin D, NOW Foods, 1000 IU, 180 SoftGels , Dry Vitamin D, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 400 IU, 100 Caps Coenzyme Q-10 100 mg daily. Helps circulation and healing of tissue. CoQ10, Vegetarian Coenzyme, NOW Foods, 30 mg, 60 VCaps , CoQ10, Now Foods, 400 mg, 60 Softgels Germanium 200 mg daily. Enhances circulation & healing of tissue. Germanium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 50 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Organic Germanium (Hypoallergenic), Allergy Research Group/Nutricology, 50 Caps Infla-Zyme Forte From American Biologics As directed on label. Take between meals. Reduces inflammation. BURNS SUPPLEMENTS Information and supplements to help healing caused by a burn injury. Aloe Vera Juice, Pure Aloe Force, Organically Grown Unprocessed Whole Raw Aloe Vera, 33.8 fl. oz. The magnificent Aloe plant, that is designed to be self-sufficient & thrive in the 
desert, feeds us in unique ways with its 250+ naturally occurring constituents including: 
enzymes, amino acids, essential fatty acids, vitamins, minerals, glycoproteins, sterols, 
growth factors, & all sizes of uniquely complex Aloe polysaccharides and mannans. Aloe Vera Juice, Herbal Aloe Force, Organically Grown Unprocessed Whole Raw Aloe Vera, 33.8 fl. oz. Herbal Aloe Force Re-Natures the cells, tissues, glands, organs and all systems of the body to 
function as originally designed. Aloe Vera, Whole Leaf Juice, 99.7% Pure, Certified Organic, Nature's Way, 1 Liter Nature's Way Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Juice offers you the rich benefits of the most potent part of 
the aloe plant. Whole Leaf Aloe Vera Juice contains an abundance of advantageous components not 
found in most aloe gel filler products. Aloe Vera, By Deanne Tenney (Paperback) One of nature's supreme soothing agents, aloe vera has been used for hundreds of years from 
everything from sunburn to constipation. Aloe Vera Skin Gel, Herbal Aloe Force, Organically Grown Unprocessed Whole Raw Aloe Vera, 4 fl. oz. Can keep your skin looking clean, clear, smooth, toned, hydrated and glowing with health. Can 
also reduce the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles and sun damage. Antibiotic, Natural Support Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Use this natural antibiotic to support the immune system. Cal/Mag/Zinc, Calcium Magnesium Zinc Supplement, 90 Tablets This unique Calcium Magnesium Zinc Supplement formula perfectly balances calcium, magnesium, 
and zinc with over 70 minerals and trace elements found in ConcenTrace for maximum absorption and 
utilization by the body. Calendula Gel, Califlora (Relief For First Aid & Sunburn), Homeopathic Boericke & Tafel, 2.72 oz. Califlora Calendula Gel is the ideal pain reliever for a wide variety of skin conditions including sunburns. Cell Rejuvenator, Peter Gillham's Natural Vitality, 8 oz. Cell Rejuvenator is a precisely engineered formula designed to give cells the exact nutrients 
they need to rejuvenate quickly and in the best condition possible. Pure Virgin Coconut Oil Cream, NOW Foods, 7 oz. NOW Foods Pure Virgin Coconut Oil Cream can be used in recipes as it is food grade, but also as 
an excellent hair and skin treatment. Colloidal Silver Pump Spray, SilvaSolution, 2 fl. oz. Colloidal Silver Spray works great to promote throat health, as well as provide immune system support. Colloidal Silver Salve, SilvaSolution, 2 oz. SilvaSolution Colloidal Silver Salve now contains added homeopathics that add a benefit that will 
enhance the SilvaSolutions effectiveness. Colloidal Silver & Zinc Lozenges, SilvaSolution, 90 Lozenges Now you can get powerful liquid silver in the most convenient form ever with new SilvaSolution 
Silver and Zinc Lozenges. Comfrey Leaf Ointment, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 2 oz. Comfrey Leaf Ointment is a 100% all natural, mild scented, herbal ointment. Comfrey Leaf Powder, 100% Organic, 4 oz. Bulk One of the most well-known healing plants, especially for its ability to heal tissue and bone. Comfrey Leaf Poultice, 2.5 oz. Comfrey leaf contains allantoin, which promotes the growth of connective tissue, bone, 
cartilage, and is easily absorbed through the skin. Copper Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 50 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. WaterOz Ionic Copper is a pure liquid Copper supplement. Copper influences protein metabolism 
and general healing, improves vitamin C oxidation and is integral in the formation of RNA. CoQ10, All Natural Hypoallergenic, Nature's Way, 60 mg, 60 Softgels CoQ10 is vital for cellular energy production and is a powerful antioxidant and free radical scavenger. CoQ10 Liquid, Trace Minerals, 4 fl. oz. Liquid Co-Q10 is an all-natural, enzymatic, dietary supplement providing assistance to the body's cells 
by helping to maintain and protect against oxidative stress for increased cell integrity and energy. CoQ10, Vegetarian Coenzyme, NOW Foods, 30 mg, 60 VCaps A coenzyme for several key steps in the production of energy within each cell, and an antioxidant 
important in its clinical effects. It is these two properties make CoQ10 one of the best supplements 
available today. DHA, 250 mg w/ 500 mg EPA & Omega 3 from Fish Oil, 120 Softgels Numerous published studies have provided strong evidence that the Omega-3 fatty acids found 
in fish oil may reduce the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) and sudden death from cardiac causes. DMG Supplement N,N Dimethyl Glycine, NOW Foods, 125 mg, 100 Caps NOW Foods' DMG Supplement is a methylated amino acid found in all cells. DMG is an antioxidant 
and methyl donor that has a number of beneficial effects. It has shown to have potential in 
increasing immune response to the flu and salmonella. Emu Oil, 100% Pure, Naturally Refined, 8 fl. oz. Thunder Ridge's Pure Emu Oil is a natural skin softener and protector. This pure Emu Oil 
supports skin hydration and elasticity and improves skin surface blood flow & healing. Emu Oil Soap, Unscented Bar Soap, Thunder Ridge Emu Oil Products This Unscented Emu Oil Soap Bar is moisturizing, conditioning, non-irritating, and accompanied with 
all the benefits of Emu oil. Emu Oil Soap, Scented Bar Soap, Thunder Ridge Emu Oil Products This lightly scented Emu Oil Soap Bar is organic, moisturizing, conditioning, non-irritating, and 
accompanied with all the benefits of Emu oil. Garlic Oil Tincture, Alcohol Free, Nature's Way, 1 fl. oz. Garlic oil is often used to soothe the ear and as an antibiotic but most often used as a food 
and herb and also to lower serum cholesterol and blood pressure and to improve circulation 
as well as possibly inhibiting the growth of ulcer causing bacteria. Lavender Essential Oil, 2 fl. oz. Lavender essential oil is strong antimicrobial and antibacterial and helps to heal wounds. As 
aromatherapy, lavender essential oil helps to calm anxiety and stress. MSM Supplement (Methylsulfonylmethane), 1000 mg, 120 Caps, Pure Lignisul with Free 4 oz. Lotion Buy MSM Supplement caps and get a 4 oz. Lotion free. MSM supplement plays a beneficial role 
in connective tissue and joint flexibility, immune health, arthritis, osteoporosis, rheumatoid 
arthritis, inflammation, pain, hair, skin, nails, athletic injuries, acne, wrinkles and allergies. Nature's Antiseptic Tea Tree Oil & Grapefruit Seed Extract By CJ Puotinen (Paperback) Nature's Warfare, this book covers tea tree oil and grapefruit see extract use in safely 
destroying viruses, bacteria, molds, yeasts and parasites that want to live in us and on us. Noni Juice, Trace Minerals, 32 fl. oz. Trace Minerals Noni Juice product may provide nutritional support for Bio-Electric Health 
and Body Mineral Balancing. Pain Formula Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Use the Pain Formula to alleviate pain naturally. Pantothenic Acid 100% Natural Vitamin B-5, 250 mg, 100 Caps Pantothenic acid vitamin B-5 is converted to coenzyme A, which is involved in the 
biochemical cycles responsible for conversion of fats, proteins and carbohydrates into energy. Pycnogenol With Vitamin E, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 50 mg, 30 Tabs Pycnogenol is an extract made from the bark of the European coastal pine. Pycnogenol is a concentrated 
source of proanthocyanidins, organic acids and other biologically active components. Silver Biotics Liquid, Silver Supplement, 8 fl. oz. Silver Biotics was tested by researchers and was found to kill every strain of bacteria that it 
was tested against and that these bacteria, many of which have become resistant to antibiotics, 
cause many human ailments. Tea Tree Oil (Melaleuca Alternifolia), 100% Pure Oil, 2 fl. oz. Tea Tree Oil can be used for general first aid uses such as cuts, burns, abrasions, insect bites, 
bee stings, rashes, impetigo, boils, sinus problems, sore throat, thrush, fingernail and 
toenail infections. Tea Tree Oil Antiseptic Ointment, 2 oz. A 100% natural Tea Tree Oil antiseptic ointment that combines a therapeutic dose of pure tea 
tree oil with the absorption powers of Australian Eucalyptus australiana oil and lavender oil. Ultimate B (Vitamin B Complex Formula), 60 Tabs Superbly formulated, Ultimate B, vitamin B Complex Formula, is a synergistic 
blend of herbs, superfoods, and enzymes made of 33% food ingredients for easy absorption. Vital Yew (Pacific Yew) Salve, 1 oz. Yew promotes healing of wounds, rashes, burns, bug bites, and problem skin. Vitamin A, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 10,000 IU, 100 Softgels Nature's Way vitamin A is 100% natural from fish liver oil. It contains no artificial ingredients 
or preservatives. Vitamin C 1000 with Bioflavonoids, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 VCaps Nature's Way Vitamin C with Bioflavonoids provides antioxidant protection for many of 
the body's important enzyme systems. Vitamin C 500 with Rosehips, 100% Natural, 500 mg, 250 VCaps Nature's Way Vitamin C with Rosehips offers a rich whole plant source of vitamin C and provides 
antioxidant protection for many of the body's important enzyme systems. Warburgia (Pepperbark, Isibhaha Peperbasbloom), 100% Natural Antifungal Herb, 100 mg, 60 Tabs Warbugia, an antifungal herb, is the most valuable of the natural African antimicrobials, and the bark 
and leaves have been used to treat yeast, fungal, bacterial and protozoal infections for centuries. Witch Hazel Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Witch Hazel can be taken internally for diarrhea and hemorrhage. Zinc Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 100 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. WaterOz Ionic Zinc is a pure liquid Zinc supplement. Zinc moves through all the fluids in the 
body, it creates a defense against infection-causing bacteria and viruses trying to enter the 
body and stops bacterial and viral replication. Zinc Lozenges With Echinacea & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 23 mg, 60 Lozenges Nature's Way Zinc lozenge boosts cold season defense with zinc, widely recognized as an important 
nutritional support during the cold season, and echinacea pupurea, clinically shown to support the 
immune system, and Vitamin C, a vitally important vitamin for general health maintenance. Herbal Remedies: Burns Information Herbal Remedies: Burns Supplements & Products NOTIFY YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER IF... You have symptoms of a burn, especially second or third degree burns. Seek medical attention 
immediately. Signs of infection or have unexpected, unusual symptoms. You need more information about first aid and how to care for burns. For a full list of available products from Mountain Rose Herbs, click on banner below: HELPFUL PRODUCTS & FURTHER EDUCATION Prescription for Nutritional Healing: The A-To-Z Guide To Supplements -- by Phyllis A. Balch, James F. Balch - 2nd Edition Prescription for Nutritional Healing: The A-To-Z Guide To Supplements -- by Phyllis A. Balch, James F. Balch - 4th Edition Prescription for Herbal Healing: The A-To-Z Reference To Common Disorders -- by Phyllis A. Balch The Complete Guide to Natural Healing If you see a suggested Amazon product "not there" as indicated by an orange box with the Amazon logo, this 
only means the specific product link has been changed by Amazon.com. Use the "click here" icon on the orange box 
and it will bring you to Amazon.com and you can do a search for a specific product using keywords and a new list 
of available products and prices will show. Their product and resource links are constantly changing and being 
upgraded. Many times there are more than one link to a specific product. Prices will vary between product 
distributors so it pays to shop around and do price comparisons. Educational materials and health products are available through Amazon.com. 
Use the search box provided below to search for a particular item. HERBS, OILS, & SUPPLIES MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Manufacturers & Distributors Mountain Rose Bulk Herbs Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs A Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs B Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs C Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs D Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs E Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs F Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs G Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs H Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs I Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs J Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs K Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs L Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs M Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs N Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs O Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs P Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs R Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs S Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs T Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs U Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs V Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs W Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs Y Mountain Rose Aromatherapy Oils Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils A-B Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils C-E Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils F-L Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils M-P Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils Q-Z Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Oil Blends & Resins Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Diffusers, Nebulizers, & Burners Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Oil Kits Mountain Rose Herbs.com: Order Online Accessories & Tools Aromatherapy Aroma Sprays and Flower Waters Babies/Children Body and Bath Bottles, Jars & Containers Bulk Herbs Bulk Ingredients Bulk Oils Butters Capsules Clays Dental Care Essential Oils Facial Care Green & Black Teas Hair Care Herbal Extracts Herbal Oils Herbal Salves & Balms Herbal Teas Herbs for Pets Incense, Resins and Candles Lotions Massage Oils Medicinal Herb Seeds Tea Brewing Supplies Women's Products Click Here To Visit Herbal Remedies Product Page A Source For Medicinal & Ritual Herbs & Supplies Aphrodisiacs Aromatherapy Bath & Body Care Bulk Herbs By The Pound Capsules, Tablets & Extracts Chinese Herbals Electronics Extracts First Aid Products Food Products, Mixes, Seeds, Snacks & More! Hair Care Products & Supplies Herbs & Oils, Kilo & Ton Hydroponics & Gardening Kava Products Kitchen & Housewares Mushrooms Musical Instruments Oral Care & Dental Products PC & IT - Computer Supplies & Assessories Skin Care, Cosmetics, & Gift Sets Smokes, Seeds, Cacti Spices, Salts, Sweeteners, & Seasonings Sports, Toys & Games Sweets, Candy, Chips & Snacks Stimulants Sedatives Teas & Coffees Shaman Shop Home Page MoonDragon's Nutrition Information Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Nutrition Basics Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Therapy Index MoonDragon's Nutrition Therapy Index MoonDragon's Alternative Health Information Index MoonDragon's Aromatherapy Information Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness Index MoonDragon's ObGyn Information Index by Subject Order MoonDragon's ObGyn Information Index by Alphabetical