<http://www.informationhealthy.com/?p=11223>; rel=shortlink

Pregnancy and chronic diseases: epilepsy | Information Healthy News Feed Comments Home Online Store Sitemap Privacy Policy Videos Browse > Home / Birth Defects / Pregnancy and chronic diseases: epilepsy Pregnancy and chronic diseases: epilepsy February 20, 2012 by admin Filed under Birth Defects Leave a Comment Article  by Stefania Constantin Epilepsy in Pregnancy Epilepsy is a condition in which a person has recurrent seizures. A seizure is defined as an abnormal and disorderly discharge of nerve cells in the brain, resulting in a temporary disturbance of motor function, sensory or mental. Most epileptic women wonder if they can have a normal pregnancy, which would be risks associated with pregnancy, fetal damage, etc. because of antiepileptic drugs. How manifest epilepsy during pregnancy? Some women have no seizures during pregnancy, during which others may face an increase in their number. Strong crises increase the risk of producing damage your child. Chances of having a healthy child are over 90% even if you have epilepsy. Rarely, more serious problems arise such as spina bifida and various heart malformations. There is no reason why epilepsy stumble you nursing. Even if you take antiepileptic drugs, they will be found in small amounts in your milk and it is not harmful because your baby gets used to the drugs during its existence in the womb. What are the risks associated with pregnancy if you have epilepsy? For women who have epilepsy and become pregnant risk of complications is higher than for a woman who hasn’t epilepsy. These complications include:- Vaginal bleeding- Ability to increase the number of seizures- Preeclampsia (high blood pressure and protein in your urine after 20 weeks of pregnancy)- Separation of the placenta from the uterusDuring pregnancy, women with epilepsy are affected by it differently, sometimes the number of seizures decreased. How does epilepsy affect the fetus? Over 90% of women with epilepsy give birth to a normal and healthy child. However there are risks such as:- Premature birth- Stillbirth- Development of epileptic seizures in children as they age- Disturbances in the development and growth- Bleeding after birth- Birth defects caused by medications taken before birthThe risks if you do not take medicines prescribed by doctor are greater than when you are treated (physical damage, developmental delay and death after seizures). What can I do to protect my child? It is important to follow the administration of medicines exactly as your doctor has set. If you have not had seizures two years in a row or more, your doctor may stop treatment before becoming pregnant. It is advisable to halt medication without medical advice.As any woman pregnant, women with epilepsy need to take vitamin supplements (folic acid), which helps prevent many birth defects. For best effect of vitamins is preferable to start taking them before pregnancy. In addition, a good sleep and a healthy diet can help for your baby safe. During pregnancy doctor visits will be scheduled. The doctor will perform blood tests frequently to ensure that the dosage of antiepileptic drugs is the right (if tests highlight a risk, your doctor may change the dose). Also could the doctor to refer you to an ultrasound examination (ultrasound) or an amniocentesis. These additional precautions are a way to monitor the pregnancy and unborn child development.In patients with epilepsy, there is necessary that pregnancy to be scheduled in advance, any change in treatment should be done before conception. Then, your doctor will prescribe medications that do not affect the child. Natural treatment for epilepsy with Calivita products - Noni liquid dietary supplement is effective in preventing and treating many diseases and disabilities or dependent behavior of certain substances and as adjuvant in treating and preventing tumors or cancer.- Rhodiolin helps restore immune balance and strengthens the body against certain diseases, ensure immunotolerance and assist the immune system against malignant processes.- The combination of magnesium, vitamin B6 and zinc is necessary for the proper functioning of muscles and nervous system. MagneZi B6 is effective in conditions such as muscle spasms, kidney disease, osteomalacy or sleep disorders. About the Author Stefania write blog articles for RetetaNaturista where you can find more details about Epilepsie and natural products from Calivita that can help you with this problem. Tags: Chronic , Diseases , epilepsy , Pregnancy Speak Your Mind Tell us what you're thinking... and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar ! Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Wordpress Hashcash needs javascript to work, but your browser has javascript disabled. Your comment will be deleted! Featured Video Eazol Pain Relief AsthmaMist Asthma Relief Oxy Sleep Sleep Aid About Acid Anxiety Back Best Cancer Care Causes Cholesterol Cure Diet Disease Disorder Effective From Gout Hair Health Heart Help High Home Infection Information Kidney Know Loss Natural Pain Prevention Reflux Relief Remedies Remedy Skin Stress Surgery Symptoms Tips Treat Treatment Treatments Ways Weight Yeast WP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck requires Flash Player 9 or better. Categories Acid Reflux Acne Addiction Adenoids and Tonsils ADHD Alcoholism Allergies Anal Anemia Angina Anorexia Anxiety Appendicitis Arthritis Asthma Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bad Breath Bedwetting Bee and Wasp Sting Behavioral Disorders Birth Control Birth Defects Body Rashes Boils Burns Cancer Cataract Cellulite Cerebral Palsy Cholesterol Constipation Corns Dandruff Deafness Deep Vein Thrombosis Degenerative Disc Dehydration Dementia Dental Depression Dermatitis Detox Diet Diabetes Earache Eczema Elbow Pain Eye Care Face Lift Fainting Fatigue Fatty Liver Flu Foul Vaginal Odor Fracture Freckles Fungal Nails Gallstones Gangrene Genital Herpes In Women German Measles Glaucoma Gout Gum Disease Hair Loss Hair Removal Hangover Head Injury Head Lice Headaches Health Care Guide Healthy Living Healthy Tips Heart Attack Heart Murmur Heat Stroke Hepatitis Hernia Hiccups High Blood Pressure Hip Bursitis Impetigo Impotence Indigestion Infertility Ingrown Hair Ingrown Toenail Internal Bleeding irritable bowel syndrome Jaundice Jet Lag Kidney Failure Kidney Infection Kidney Stone Knee Pain Lactose Intolerance Leukemia Listeria Lymphedema Malaria Male Health Menstrual Cramps Miscarriage Moles Mumps Obesity Pneumonia Skin Care Sleep Disorders Stress trying to conceive Weight Lose Yeast Infection Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 Recommended 12 Hour Cure For Yeast Infection Cold Sore Free Forever Gout Natural Remedy Report Heartburn No More Master Cleanse Secrets 10 Day Diet The Kidney Stone Removal Report Tinnitus Miracle Admin Log in WordPress XHTML Advertisement Copyright © 2011 · All Rights Re