Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Probiotics build eczema resistance | Resources | Candida Free - Candida, Fibromyalgia, IBS, threelac, Colitis, yeast infections, thrush, sinusitis, leaky gut syndrome, nail fungus, chronic fatigue, crohn's FMS Candida Free Finally, a permanent solution HOME HOW TO ORDER RESOURCES TESTIMONIALS YEAST TESTS INSTRUCTIONS Resources Probiotics build eczema resistance 30/05/2003 Probiotics given to pregnant women and babies around the time of childbirth could protect children from atopic eczema for up to four years - two years longer than previously reported, say researchers in tomorrow’s Lancet. The allergy atopic eczema is a chronic disease affecting increasing numbers in developed countries. Some experts have attributed this increase to reduced exposure to bacteria during childhood which is thought to prevent the full development of the immune system, although this theory has not been proven. Marko Kalliomäki and colleagues from Turku University Central Hospital in Finland previously reported results of a randomised trial which showed how consumption of the probiotic Lactobacillus GG (a probiotic which is safe at an early age and effective in the treatment of allergic inflammation and food allergy) halved the incidence of infant atopic eczema at two years of age compared with placebo (see The Lancet 2001; 357: 1076-79). The same group of investigators will report in tomorrow’s issue of journal that children who were exposed to probiotics around the time of birth were 40 per cent less likely to develop atopic eczema at four years of age compared with children in the placebo group. As with the previous study, exposure to probiotics did not have any protective effect over asthma or rhinitis. As in the first study, a group of 159 mothers were randomly allocated to receive two capsules of placebo or probiotics - lactobacillus GG, produced by Finland's Valio - daily for four weeks before expected delivery. After delivery, capsules were taken postnatally for six months (during breastfeeding either the mother or the infant consumed the preparation). Atopic disease was diagnosed using a questionnaire and a clinical examination. Out of 53 children receiving the probiotics, 14 had developed eczema, compared to 25 in the placebo group (54 in total). “Our findings show that the preventive effect of Lactobacillus GG on atopic eczema in at-risk children extends to the age of four years. This age, however, does not yet allow the final assessment of any effect on respiratory allergic diseases, since these typically manifest themselves at an older age,” said Marko Kalliomäki. The researchers also noted that the immunological effects of probiotic strains vary, even within the same species. "Since the probiotic approach was promising and safe, future studies should focus on detection of new potential successful probiotic strains to be applied in combinations when combating allergic disease," they conclude. Print this page List of Resources: A Theory Behind Celiac Disease Gut Bacteria Affect Multiple Sclerosis Candida – An M.D.’s Perspective Immune System's Double Duty Bacteria Disappearing From Our Bodies May Harm Human Health FDA Warns 2 Chelation Drugs (EDTA) Can Be Mistaken for Each Other Lyme Disease Tests 'Good' Microbes Under Attack Incidence of Candida in Psoriasis Bacteria Factor in Asthma Yeast and Auto-Immune Illnesses Evolution at Work: Watching Bacteria Grow Drug Resistant With New Patent, Mayo Clinic Owns a Cure for the Sniffles New Bacteria to Fight Allergy Symptoms Babies With Rash Get Cream To Damp Immune System; Can It Stop the 'Cascade'? A loaf of bread, a jug of wine... a yeast infection? Gut Health Key To Allergy Prevention Treating Children For Bipolar Disorder Allergies, Asthma May Play Role in Autism Probiotic formula may bolster infant immune system A Healthy Gut May Resist Allergies, Asthma Studies Linking Ritalin and Depression Highlight Risk of Overdiagnosing ADHD Probiotics build eczema resistance Taking Heartburn Seriously: Ailment Can Lead To Deadly Consequences Pathogenic Yeasts And Fungi: A Growing Health Concern The Candida Yeast-Autism Connection Take Two Aspirin And Some Bacteria Tampon Targeting Infections Gains Approval by FDA Unmentioned to Many Women Bacteria Have New Resistance Genes That Make Them Far More Virulent Candida albicans and Inflammatory Bowel Disease Bacteria Itself Wards Off Ear Infections Theory for Root Cause Of Crohn's Gains Support Ear Infections Impact Learning Connective Tissue Disorder Site Dr. Claudio Fiocchi on beneficial live bacteria Identification of Yeast Mating Habits Opens New Doors to Candida Research Fungus causes most chronic sinusitis, researchers say Children taking fewer antibiotics Experts hail reversal of a 20-year trend New Research Questions Need For Some Common Surgeries The Latest From the Operating Table Skin Disorders and Gastrointestinal Dysbiosis Leukemia and prolonged neutropenia are among the risk factors for Candida tropicalis infection in cancer patients The Many Symptoms of Yeast/Fungus Infestation Hormone Imbalance and Yeast Infections Bruce Semon, M.D., Ph.D. on the effects of yeast overgrowth and Autism, ADD, ADHD, Tourette's, headaches, fatigue, depression and schizophrenia William Shaw, M.D. on the role several species of yeast and fungi play in various diseases Print this page © 2003-2011 Mark Cobb. All rights reserved. N