Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dental Sealants Protecting
            Children's Teeth Online
                Resources Parents, as your child's permanent teeth 
            come in, talk to your dentist about having dental sealants applied 
            to protect teeth from tooth decay. What is a dental sealant? A dental sealant
                   is a plastic coating applied to the chewing surfaces of back
                  
                  teeth. Grooves in these teeth are so narrow that a toothbrush
                   cannot fit into the spaces to remove plaque (what is plaque?).
                  
                  Dental sealants prevent dental decay in the grooves. Why are they important? Sealants can provide 100%
                 protection from dental decay or "cavities" on the chewing surface.
                Research has 
                shown that when placed over very minimal dental decay, the decay
                will no longer progress. Who should get sealants? Children should receive sealants on permanent molars as soon
                        as they erupt (about ages 6 and 12 years). If a tooth 
                  already has a filling, then it does not get a dental sealant. How are sealants applied? First - The tooth is etched
                   with a mild acid to create retention for the sealant, then
                  rinsed 
                  and air dried. Second - The liquid sealant is painted into the grooves of
                  the  teeth. Third - A high intensity light is used to activate the liquid
                  plastic to harden. Are they safe? Sealants are simple, painless, and require no drilling. How long do they last? While they may last up to 10 years, 2 to 4 years 
                  is a more reasonable estimate. Sealants can be highly effective 
                  in protection against cavities provided the sealant is continuously 
                  monitored by a dentist. Sealants should be checked by a dentist 
                  during regular check ups and if needed they can be re-applied. Why aren't sealants used on all 
                  teeth? The liquid plastic is designed to flow into and fill the pits 
                  and grooves of the teeth. The plastic does not work on the smooth 
                  surfaces of the teeth, like the fronts and backs and sides of 
                  the teeth. How much do they cost? Treatment is cost effective because sealing a tooth costs less 
                  than filling one. As a parent, check with your dentist about 
                  specific costs. What else can parents do to prevent 
                  cavities? Encourage your child to brush and floss every day.
                  Use fluoride toothpaste. Ask your dentist about
                  fluoridated water and fluoride mouth rinses. Take your child
                   to the dentist for regular check-ups. Give your child healthy
                  
                  foods and avoid candy and foods with lots of sugar. Lesson Plans: Teach 
                  students about sealants and the importance of them. Lots of 
                  hands-on activities, all linked to the SC Health Education Standards 
                  developed by the State Department of Education. Pre-school Kindergarten Second 
                  Grade Seventh 
                  Grade Fun Sites: Colgate 
                  Kids World How Are Sealants Applied? (Video) Online
                    Resources Copyright 2004 Medical University of South Carolina All rights reserved Thanks
                        to: Kate Lyttle Update 2009 MUSC
                        Dental Public Health Class Spring 2002 Department of Craniofacial Biology Department of Pediatric Dentistry
                    and Orthodontics SC DHEC SC State Department of Education Developer: MUSC Center for Academic and Research Computing MUSC
                 College of Dental Medicine Viewpoint (Video) Current
             Practices Review of the literature related to
              dental sealants Sample 
          Insurance Form O nline
                Resources Principal Investigator: John J. Sanders, DDS Project Director: Raymond F. Lala, DDS, MPH Project Facilitator: S