Vary: Accept-Encoding

Feverfew for Migraine Migraine sufferers treated with a homeopathic preparation of  ginger and the herb feverfew may find some pain relief,  according to a preliminary study. Feverfew, which is derived  from a flowering plant, has long been thought to be a remedy  for headaches. It might offer an alternative to standard  migraine medications, which are costly, have side effects  and don't always work, according the new report. About 12  percent of Americans get migraines, and the problem has been  estimated to cost the U.S. some $20 billion annually in lost  productivity and medical care. In the new study, researchers funded by PuraMed Bioscience,  which makes the feverfew/ginger treatment, randomly assigned  patients to take a preparation containing miniscule amounts  of the two plants or a dummy treatment. The patients were  asked to treat themselves–—by putting a little sachet with  the preparations under their tongue—as soon as they  recognized the signs of an approaching migraine. Forty five  people took the homeopathic treatment and 15 took the  placebo. About a third of those who took feverfew and ginger  were pain-free after two hours, compared to only half as  many in the placebo group. Overall, 63 percent of those taking the homeopathic  preparation saw some pain relief, while 39 percent did so  among those taking the fake treatment. Because the study was  small, it's possible that those randomly assigned to take  the placebo simply experienced more severe migraines to  begin with. But study researcher Dr. Roger Cady said that  was unlikely. "I don't think that accounts for the  differences in efficacy here," Cady, who directs the  Headache Care Center in Springfield, Missouri, told Reuters  Health. While he thinks the findings are real, it's still unclear  how exactly the treatment would work, he added. The  homeopathic preparation, called LipiGesic, sells for $29.95  for several doses. Cady says people who experience migraines  slowly, and therefore have the ability to treat them early  and before they become severe, would be the best candidates  to try the feverfew therapy. "The results are really  intriguing, but definitely preliminary," said Dr. Rebecca  Erwin Wells, an instructor at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical  Center. Wells said the study had some flaws and noted that one of  the authors is also the CEO and chairman of PuraMed  Bioscience. Still, she said, it's important to have studies  on complementary or alternative therapies, particularly for  people who suffer migraines. A recent study by Wells and her  colleagues, published along with the new results in the  journal Headache, found that people who deal with migraines  or severe headaches are more likely than others to seek out  complementary or alternative remedies, such as meditation,  yoga and herbal treatments. "We found that 50 percent of adults with migraine or severe  headaches, which is 13.5 million Americans, used  complementary and alternative medicine in the previous  year," Wells told Reuters Health. Among people who don't  have migraines or severe headaches, 35 percent used  complementary or alternative approaches to wellness or  diseases. "We need more research to understand the  mechanisms, benefits, side effects and risks of  complementary and alternative therapies," concluded Wells.  *FoxNews Note; Feverfew is an excellent herb for migraine, but if taking  the leaf, its important to place it between a couple of  pieces of bread, as feverfew leaf may give some people mouth  ulcers. Take a couple of leaves daily. Source Unknown Feverfew for Migraine My Home Page Headaches For some, healing is too much to bear, and they hand it  back, exchanging it  for the fear they are accustomed to. Deepak Chopra Enhanced immunity may be steeping in your cup of chamomile tea.  A recent study revealed that sipping chamomile tea increases blood levels of hippurate, an anti-inflammatory compound that may help ward off colds and other illnesses. For an extra boost of disease-fighting antioxidants, add a smidgen of honey to your steamy brew. Other Places To Visit An Earth Friendly Ring Anno Mundi Philosophy of Mind Asthma Asthma & Allergies Buy Posters at AllPosters.com Advertise your family friendly web site for just $20.00 per year at: Opo