Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

AFH LIBRARY - Suggested Mechanisms of Action of Vitamin B-17 Suggested Mechanisms of Action of Vitamin B-17 AlkalizeForHealth The information on this web site is provided for educational purposes only. Please see Disclaimer , Terms of Use , and Privacy Policy . "The doctor of the future will give no medicine, but will interest his patients in the care of the human frame, in diet and in the cause and prevention of disease." - Thomas Edison "After more than twenty years of such specialized work, I have found the nontoxic Nitrilosides - that is, Laetrile - far superior to any other known cancer treatment or preventative..." - Dr. Hans Neiper, Germany Additional articles on nitrilosides . Reprinted with permission from www.worldwithoutcancer.com Charles Gurchot, Ph.D. Oral doses of Vitamin B-17 seem not to much affected by the action of the acid medium of the stomach, but pass into the intestine where the substance is acted upon by bacterial enzymes. In the intestine the enzyme complex Emulsin containing the enzymes Beta-glucosidase, Benzocyanase, and others, degrades the Amygdalin into four components: Hydrocyanic acid, Benzaldehyde, Prunasin, and Mandelonitrile, which are absorbed into the lymph and portal circulations. Cyanide is converted to thiocyanate probably in the blood circulation, and certainly in the liver by the enzyme rhodanese in the presence of sulfur-bearing compounds. 1,2 The circulating thiocyanate exerts certain physiological effects on blood pressure and thyroid action, and is not excreted rapidly. (In the absence of the enzyme or sulfur, the cyanide may form cyano-hemoglobin.) In cancer patients some thiocyanate finds its way to the site of the cancer lesion. The benzaldehyde formed in the intestine probably has no important function, but in the circulation forms benzoic acid and is excreted as benzaldehyde hippurate. Prunasin (the mono-glucoside of Mandelonitrile) can circulate in the body and reach the malignant lesion, and as such hydrolyse to liberate hydrocyanic acid, benzaldehyde, and one glucose molecule. Prunasin may also be changed in the liver to Mandelonitrile glucuronoside. This conversion to the glucuoronoside may take place in two different ways: 1) by combining with glucuronic acid, which would remove one sugar molecule; 2) by oxidation of the terminal alcohol group of the prunasin glucose molecule. The mandelonitrile is absorbed from the intestine, going directly to the liver where it is converted by the detoxification mechanism of joining it to glucuronic acid. It may then be excreted as the glucuronide or find its way to the site of a malignant lesion. Glucosidic enzymes at the lesion may hydrolyse prunasin into its components cyanide, benzaldehyde, and a glucose molecule, to interfere with tissue respiration. In the process of enzyme hydrolysis pure mandelonitrile, as an intermediate step, may be released. Mandelonitrile of itself may undergo spontaneous hydrolysis to HCN and benzaldehyde or enzymatic decomposition by benzocyanase present in the emulsin complex. Mandelonitrile glucuronide may be hydrolysed at the tumor site by Beta-glucuronidase to yield HCN, benzaldehyde and glucuronic acid. Benzaldehyde released through these processes at the site of the malignant lesion may be reduced to benzyl alcohol, and combine with the thiocyanate to form benzo thiocyanate. This compound is further reduced to a thio-alcohol, benzo mercaptain, and hydrocyanic acid. In this manner HCN reappears and may continue to do so in a cyclic manner until the intracellular conditions that permit the reaction involved in the cycle are no longer operative. These phenomena would explain the synergistic effect of benzaldehyde and cyanide in depressing the metabolism of mouse tumor slices in the Warburg apparatus (Dean Burk 3 ). In the absense of rhodanese the cyanide probably exerts its lethal effects on cell respiration, which is relatively small in cancer cells, by interferance with the cytochrome oxidase enzymes. Cyanide, either as such, or as mandelonitrile, may combine with glucose to form cyanoglucose, which, on hydrolysis, forms a glucuronide heptose analogous to gluconic acid, which would be excreted, or dehydrogenated to heptose, which also would be excreted. The conditions for this transformation exist in cancer tissue and would constitute anti-gluconeogenesis. [From Physicians Handbook of Vitamin B-17 Therapy, McNaughton Foundation, Published by: Science Press International, 1973] References: Sorbo, Acta Chem.Scand. 5,1951,(724-34);1953 (1129-1136);1953 (1137-1145). Clemedson et al, Acta Physiol.Scand. 32, 1954, 245. Burk, McNaughton, Von Ardenne, PanMinerva Med. 13,#12,Dec.1971. *** Here is a good source of information on vitamin B17: http://www.worldwithoutcancer.org.uk/research.html For Colon Health, Squatting Is Better Two-thirds of humanity use the squatting position to answer the call of nature. In those cultures, appendicitis, diverticulosis, hemorrhoids, colitis, prostate disorders and colon cancer are virtually unknown ... Learn why ~~~~~~~~~~~ Recommended by doctors and yoga teachers for easier and more complete elimination. Doctors say that 
					"death begins in the colon". To 
					allow the 
					squatting position use Nature's Platform to adapt the western toilet. More Information In 1904 there was very little cancer. Now there is an abundance of cancer. What has changed? Can this be reversed? If you have cancer or do not want to get cancer the information you and your family need is on this web site. Note: there are two ways to navigate this site. You can follow the pages in their logical sequence, or you can access every page from " Contents ". For your assistance, there is are Google search boxes on each page that will allow you to search this web site or the entire Internet for more information. Alkalize For Health Site Search Search the Internet with Google To find the best online bargains for vitamins, minerals, herbs and 
	other products, try Shopzilla.com and BizRate Copyright © 2000-2012 