Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

World Without Cancer - Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk - B17 Laetrile Vitamin B17 * When open a local search file in Internet Explorer on Windows XP SP 2, the content may be blocked. To open the file correctly, please click the Information Bar on the top of the browser window, and select "Allow Blocked Content". * There will not be such problem after you upload the file to a web server. * To display this page, you need a web browser with JavaScript support. Home | Introduction | Site Map | Success Stories | Research | Products | FAQ | Contact Us | WWC Audio | • Introduction • Important Warning • About Vitamin B17 • Vitamin B17 as Preventative • Metabolic Therapy in Cancer • B17 In Metabolic Therapy • Laetrile and Cyanide • Graphic on Action of B17 • Frequently Asked Questions • B17 Therapy Components • Accessory Supplements • B17 Therapy Overview • Therapies and Protocols • What is in B17 Therapy? • Maintenance Dosages • Accessory Therapies • Positive Thinking • Implementing Changes • Behaviour of Tumours • Criteria For Evaluation • B17 - Sickle Cell Anaemia • Fluoridation-linked cancer • Contacts • In God We Trust • References • More Studies, Research Vitamin B17 As a 
	Preventative Vitamin B-17 is one 
    of the main sources of food in cultures such as the Eskimos, the Hunzas, the 
    Abkasians and many more. Did you know that within these tribes there has never 
    been a reported case of cancer? According to Dr. Krebs, we need a minimum 
    of 100 mg of vitamin B-17 (the equivalent of about seven apricots seeds) too 
    nearly guarantee a cancer free life. Foods that contain vitamin B-17 are as 
    follows: KERNELS OR SEEDS 
      OF FRUIT: The highest concentration of vitamin B-17 to be found in nature, 
      aside from bitter almonds. Apple, apricot, cherry, nectarine, peach, pear, 
      plum, prune. BEANS: broad (Vicia 
      faba), burma, chickpeas, lentils (sprouted), lima, mung (sprouted), Rangoon, 
      scarlet runner. NUTS: Bitter almond, 
      macadamia, cashew. BERRIES: Almost 
      all wild berries. Blackberry, chokeberry, Christmas berry, cranberry, elderberry, 
      raspberry, strawberry. SEEDS: Chia, flax, 
      sesame. GRASSES: Acacia, 
      alfalfa (sprouted), aquatic, Johnson, milkweed, Sudan, minus, wheat grass, 
      white dover. GRAINS: oat groats, 
      barley, brown rice, buckwheat groats, chia, flax, millet, rye, vetch, wheat 
      berries. MISCELLANEOUS: bamboo 
      shoots, fuschia plant, sorghum, wild hydrangea, yew tree (needles, fresh 
      leaves). Two rules of thumb: 
    According to Dr. Krebs, the basic concept is that sufficient daily B-17 may 
    be obtained by following either of two suggestions: First, eating all 
    the B-17-containing fruits whole (seeds included), but not eating more of 
    the seeds by themselves than you would be eating if you ate them in the whole 
    fruit. Example: if you eat three apples a day, the seeds in the three apples 
    are sufficient B-17. You would not eat a pound of apple seeds. Second, one peach 
    or apricot kernel per 10 lbs of body weight is believed to be more than sufficient 
    as a normal safeguard in cancer prevention, although precise numbers may vary 
    from person to person in accordance with individual metabolism and dietary 
    habits. A 170-lb man, for example, might consume 17 apricot or peach kernels 
    per day and receive a biologically reasonable amount of Vitamin B-17. And two important 
    notes: Certainly, you can consume too much of anything. Too many kernels or 
    seeds, for example, can be expected to produce unpleasant side effects. These 
    natural foods should be consumed in biologically rational amounts (no more 
    than 30 to 35 kernels per day). High concentrations 
    of B-17 are obtained by eating the natural foods in their raw or sprouting 
    stage. This does not mean that moderate cooking and other tampering will destroy 
    the B-17 content. Foods cooked at a temperature sufficient for a Chinese dinner, 
    for example, will not lose their B-17 content. More on B17... 2001 
			Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk By Accessing this web site you accept 
			all its terms and conditions. ©Copyright 2000 - Worldwithoutcancer.org.uk - PO Box 2038 - Leigh-on-Sea - SS9 2ZB - 
			UK Home | Introduction | Site Map | Success St