
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 13:20:21 GMT
Server: WebServerX
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Ginkgo Biloba 350 mg We detected that your JavaScript seem to be disabled. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Skip to Main Content » My Basket Log In Search Site Get to know us Home Detox Hydration Supplements Your Health Issues 100% Secure Founded 1996 Newsletter Newsletter Sign up for our newsletter: Subscribe Ginkgo Biloba 350 mg Ginkgo Biloba 350 mg Overview Ginkgo Biloba is an effective antioxidant herb which is known to improve oxygen transport to the brain memory & thought clarity bodily blood circulation oxygen transport to the heart muscle fatigue & pain. €25.00 Qty: Add to Basket Size:100 Caps. Article:11060 Ginkgo Biloba 350 mg Description Gingko Biloba Benefits Ginkgo's ability to enhance circulation has been studied extensively, and a study published in the Journal of American Medical Association showed that it had a measurable effect on dementia in the study subjects with Alzheimer's disease and those recovering from strokes. Other studies indicate that it can enhance concentration and improve both long- and short-term memory. Gingko Biloba has also been used to treat hearing problems and poor balance. Ginkgo has traditionally been used to relieve tension and anxiety while improving alertness, mood and energy. The body's response to consuming Ginkgo is that it increases blood flow throughout the vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the brain.  Ginkgo helps enhance circulation and boost oxygen supply in the tissue. Sharper memory, increased clarity, and improved reaction time are benefits of the superior blood supply. More that 300 studies over the past 30 years have provided clinical evidence of the beneficial effects of Ginkgo Biloba throughout the body.  Areas that have gained particular attention are the brain and congnitive function, capiliary circulation & cardiovascular health. Ginkgo The Brain Tonic Recognised for thousands of years in Asia, Ginkgo is now being acknowledged in the western scientific community for its circulatory enhancement properties.  As well as the memory enhancement capabilities it is now recognised that the cerebellum in particular responds well to this herb, and it is therefore being employed for vertigo, tinnitus (ringing in the ears) and a variety of neurological disorders and circulation problems from mental fatigue to lack of energy. Ginkgo and Oxygen By enhancing the performance of blood vessels and oxygen delivery throughout the body, Ginkgo has a positive systemic effect, but it is important to realise that a full 20% of the suppleid oxygen is used by the brain which is why Ginkgo's positive effects are so clearly evident in cognitive function. Ginkgo and Improved Memory Benefits of improved brain circulation include improved short and long term memory,  improved mental clarity and faster reaction times. Alzheimer's and other symptoms of cerebral insufficiency are frequently treated with Ginkgo. These cerebral insufficiencies may include difficulties of concentration and memory, absentmindedness and confusion. Blood-Flow to Parts of The Brain Insufficiency in the hypathalamas and or pituitary may present as lack of energy, while other areas of the lymbic system might result in depressed mood or anxiety, dizziness is often most closely related to the cerebellum and ear structures which may also result in tinnitus.  Headaches may also result from vaso-constriction and inadiquate oxygen supply to the brain. Ginkgo and Improved Circulation Ginkgo also improves circulation in the extremities relieving cold hands and feet, arterial blockage, swelling or oedema in arms and legs.  Standardised Ginkgo has been used in treatment of other circulation-related disorders such as diabetic peripheral vascular disease, Raynaud's syndrome, hemorrhoids and varicose veins, stroke and skull injuries. The circulatory systems of eyes and ears may also benefit from this herb. About Gingko Biloba ginkgo is the oldest living tree species.  It is believed to have been growing on earth for 150 - 200 million years. It is now frequently prescribed by Dorcors and Pharmacists in France and Germany, and is one of the most well-researched herbs in the world. Ginkgo and  Cholesterol Studies suggest that in addition to its ability to relax constricted blood vessels, Ginkgo may actually help keep the transformation of cholesterol to plaque under control.  It is this plaque which is associated with the hardening of arteries. Ginkgo Sight and Vision Studies have now confirmed that blood flow to the retina increases with the consumption of Ginkgo.  This may slow retinal deterioration and increase of visual acuity. In clinical tests ginkgo has improved hearing loss in the elderly. Contents 100 veg. capsules Each capsule contains 350 mg ginkgo leaf extract 50:1, rice flour. References Herbal Medicine: Expanded Commission E Monographs. Blumenthal, Mark; Goldberg, Alicia; Brinckmann, Josef, Eds,; Tyler, Varro E, PhD, ScD. American Botanical Council, 2000. Herbal Prescriptions for Better Health: Your Up-To-Date Guide to the Most Effective Herbal Treatments. Brown, Donald J., N.D. Rocklin: Prima Publishing, 1996. PDR for Herbal Medicines. Gruenwald, Joerg, PhD; Brendler, Thomas, BA; Jaenicke, Christof, MD. Medical Economics Company, 1998. Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine, second ed. Murray, Michael, ND; Pizzorno, Joseph, ND. Prima Publishing, Rocklin. 1999. Textbook of Natural Medicine, second ed. Pizzorno, Joseph, ND; Murray, Michael T, Eds. Churchill Livingstone, 1999. Vitamin Bible. Mindell, Earl Vitamins & You. Benowieez, Robert The People's Guide to Vitamins & Minerals. Bosco, Dominick The Complete Book of Vitamins. Gottlieb, William Prescription for Nutritional Healing. Phyllis A. Balch, CNC and James F. Balch, M.D. A to Z Supplement Type Toggle Amino Acids Anti-inflammatory Anti-microbials Antioxidants Chlorella Detoxifiers Electrolytes Enzymes Formulae Herbal Remedies Minerals Multi Vitamin/Mineral Omega Oils Probiotics Vitamins Your Health Issue Toggle Anti Aging Child Health Female Health Toggle Breast Health Female Sexual Health Fertility Menopause Menstruation & PMS Pregnancy & Breast Feeding Thrush Male Health Toggle Hair Loss Erectile Dysfunction Prostate Health Male Sexual Health Organ Health Toggle Brain & Nerves Toggle Memory Cognitive Function Headaches Mood & Sleep Nervous System Cardiovascular Toggle Blood Pressure Cholesterol Heart & Arteries Digestion Toggle Bloating Candida Constipation Diarrhoea & Sickness Indigestion Irritable Bowel Wind Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat Glands & Hormones Joints, Bones & Muscles Kidney & Bladder Liver & Gallbladder Lungs Pancreas & Blood Sugar Skin Hair & Nails Pain & Injury Toggle Back Pain Digestive Pain Headaches Joint & Bone Pain Period Pain Wounds & Scars Weight Loss Whole Body Issue Toggle Allergy Energy & Fatigue Immune System Infection Toggle Bacterial Infection Fungal Infection Parasitic Infection Viral Infection Fever / Temperature Colds & Flu Staying Healthy Expert Product Lines Toggle BioPure Europe Toggle Antimicrobials Chlorella & CGF Detoxifiers Hydration Minerals Omega Oils Probiotics Rizols (Ozonated Oils) Tinctures Autism Lyme Disease Brenda Watson Dr Richard Anderson Dr Klinghardt Dr Schulze Hulda Clark Detox & Cleansing Toggle All Cleanses & Detox --- Blood & Tissue Detox Colon Cleanse Heavy Metal Detox Kidney Cleanse Liver Cleanse Parasite Cleanse Detox by Hulda Clark Detox by Dr Klinghardt Detox by Dr Schulze Detox by Watson Hydration & Water Toggle Cellular Hydration Electrolytes Water Filter Systems Natural Body Care Toggle Skin Care Cosmetics Face & Mouth Hair Men's Bodoy Care Hygene & Cleaning Sport & Fitness Health Technology Household Products Laboratory Tests Books & Education New & Special Offers My Basket You have no items in your shopping basket. Mercury Free Dentist UK & Ireland A comprehensive list available here. PRACTITIONER HUB 1 Contact a Natural Health Practitioner Kidney Pain Kidney Stones Kidney Disease Symptoms Colon Cleanse Digestive Enzymes Digestive Enzymes Supplement Healing Principles Herbal Remedies Herbal Remedies for Anxiety Herbal Remedies for Constipation Herbal Remedies for Depression Herbal Remedies for Menopause Bloated Stomach Health Shops Bigesta What is Mercury Free Dentistry? About Us Search Terms Advanced Search Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Us © 2010 Self Health Enterprises. All Rights Reserved. Please note: This information is provided for educational purposes only. Medical advice is neither implied nor intend