Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Mon, 02 Nov 2009 07:43:03 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "c6aa241c905bca1:111c3"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 02:34:32 GMT
Connection: close

World Pneumonia Day 2 November 2009 Home WHO India Core Programme Clusters Communicable
  Diseases and Disease Surveillance (CDS) Health
  Systems Development (HSD) Family
  & Community Health (FCH) Non
  Communicable Diseases & Mental Health (NMH) Sustainable
  Development & Healthy Environment (SDE) Information Services Links WHO Collaborating Centers Training Grants/ Fellowships/ Call for Proposals Vacancy What’s New Core Programme Clusters Family & Community Health (FCH) World Pneumonia Day – 2 November 2009 Pneumonia
  a major killer in children; prevention possible with safe & effective
  vaccines Pneumonia is the leading
  single cause of childhood mortality. The disease accounts for 19 per cent
  deaths in children less than 5 years. Pneumonia kills more children than any
  other illness, more than measles, malaria and AIDS combined. Globally 156
  million new pneumonia cases are reported every year in the developing world.
  As many as 8.7 per cent of these cases are severe enough to be
  life-threatening and require hospitalization. India accounts for the maximum 43 million new cases followed by China (21 million cases) and Pakistan (10
  million cases). Pneumonia is estimated to kill 410,000 children in India every year. Haemophilus influenza and Streptococcus pneumonia are the main causes of bacterial
  pneumonia and estimated to be the causative organisms for more than 50% of
  all childhood pneumonias. In addition some diseases, like measles and pertussis (whooping cough) can lead to pneumonia as a
  complication. It has been shown through
  various studies that mortality due to pneumonias could be decreased by
  interventions like prevention of pneumonia through immunization, early diagnosis
  and optimal case management, exclusive breastfeeding for six months, reducing
  indoor air pollution, preventive antibiotic treatment in HIV infected children and zinc  supplementation. Prevention of pneumonia
  through immunization: In India , pneumonia is responsible
  for an estimated 410,000 deaths in children under five and a substantial
  proportion of these deaths are due to pneumococcal pneumonia.  While treatment with
  antibiotics reduces mortality, lack of access to care and delay in provision
  of antibiotics, especially among the poor and most vulnerable children result
  in high case fatality from pneumonia. 
  Studies have shown that up to 19% of children hospitalized with
  pneumonia die in India .
  Another consideration is the rising resistance to commonly used antibiotics
  worldwide associated with increasing rates of treatment failures. Hence,
  prevention of Pneumonia through immunization is an effective way to decrease
  the incidence and prevent mortality and morbidity in children. Among
  immunizations, introduction of Haemophilus influenza ( Hib ) and Pneumococcal vaccines (PCV) and improving immunization coverage of Measles and Pertussis vaccine have been shown to decrease the
  incidence of Pneumonia in children under 5 years of
  age. Taking into consideration all
  the evidence presented, the National Technical Advisory Group (NTAGI) on
  Immunization recommended the national roll out of Hib vaccine by 2012 as a multi-dose liquid pentavalent vaccine (DPT- Hep B- Hib ).
  Concerning pneumococcal vaccine, the NTAGI recognizing
  the need for its introduction, recommended a vaccine impact study on the 7 valent Pneumococcal vaccine
  (PCV 7) in one high mortality state be initiated as early as possible. Hib and Pneumococcal vaccines are safe and
  cost-effective vaccines and are instrumental in preventing serious and fatal
  pneumonia in young children under 5 years of age.  WHO recommends prioritizing the use of
  vaccines, as millions of children, specially the poor, remain at high risk of dying from pneumonia. The WHO recommendations were
  made after a thorough review of all available data on the disease and
  potential vaccine impact by expert committees and the WHO Strategic Advisory
  Group of Experts (SAGE).  Introduction
  of Hib and Pneumococcal conjugate vaccines into the childhood immunization programmes ,
  especially in developing countries, will contribute effectively to achieving
  the Millennium Development Goal of globally reducing childhood deaths by
  two-thirds by 2015. The pneumococcal conjugate vaccines also prevent meningitis caused by pneumococcus ,
  one of the common causes of bacterial meningitis, which is associated with
  high fatality rate (over 30% in India ) and long term disabilities
  like deafness, seizures, paralysis and learning disorders among
  survivors.  Prevention of severe
  pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal diseases
  through vaccination is therefore an important advance in public health. Due to some recent concerns
  on the safety of Pneumococcal vaccines, a
  comprehensive review of all the safety data related to this vaccine was
  conducted by the WHO Global Advisory Committee of Vaccine Safety which
  concluded that “the evidence did not identify any major safety problems with
  PCV7 or any other pneumococcal conjugate vaccine,
  with the possible exception of reactive airway disease (wheezing), which may
  bear further scrutiny as additional data become available.” The advisory
  committee concluded that the risk-benefit ratio for the vaccine strongly
  supports the use of the vaccine in routine immunization programmes . PCV is currently being used
  in the national immunization programmes of over 25
  industrialized countries with no evidence of increase in the occurrence of
  wheezing.  A post-marketing
  surveillance review in the U.S.A. estimated a less than 1 case report of asthma per 1 million doses of PCV
  distributed.  However, like with any
  vaccine, ongoing safety evaluations will further monitor this issue and
  overall safety of these vaccines. Regarding the cost of Hib and Pneumococcal vaccines,
  it is recognized that the price in the private market and in industrialized
  countries is relatively high at present, but past experience, for example
  with the hepatitis B vaccines, shows that the cost of vaccines do decline
  drastically when introduced on a large scale. At the projected public sector
  prices in developing countries, these vaccines are considered highly
  cost-effective and a worthy allocation even if a country were to self-finance
  the procurement of the vaccine. The above pattern of ultimate reduction in
  vaccine cost is also true for the cost of life-saving treatments such as for
  AIDS, 