Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Healing plants: Aloevera ALOE
VERA Aloe barbadensis (Mill.) Order: Liliaceae Synonyms: "Curacao aloes", "Barbados  aloes",
"first-aid plant", "medicine plant" INDICATIONS Unfortunately, it's
too little known that aloe vera very often works well for both constipation
and the opposite condition. It does not work for parasites . Rather it works for bacteria, viruses, candida, the ph balance, and the
skin of the walls of the intestines. Aloes is good for the immune system
(supposedly because the walls of the intestines are a part of the immune
system), which is a point to consider for lupus, since a boosted immune
system will boost the lupus as well. The immune system will not be boosted
per se, but rather get better conditions to work under, since the intestines
will not leak bacteria and other bad stuff into the organism so much (and
which, according to some theories, especially advocated by colon hydrotherapists,
could be a cause of various diseases). Aloes is recommended for rheumatic
arthritis, which is also an autoimmune disease. Fibromyalgia goes together
with not only pain, but also often also digestive problems. Possibly, Aloes
vera can help against fibromyalgia in general when taken over a longer
period, along with other kinds of treatment and therapy. Digestion is one
of the two main areas of well-attested success for aloe vera (the other
being the skin), although it doesn't work equally much for everyone. In
the past, Aloes was used as an emmenagogue, small doses increasing menstrual
flow. The gel is used topically to aid wound healing and to relieve burns
including sunburn; it encourages skin regeneration. Internally, it is used
for colonic irrigation. THERAPEUTICS &
PHARMACOLOGY Aloes is taken internally
as a purgative, acting on the lower bowel. It may be used in atonic constipation
although over dosage can result in diarrhea, gastritis and nephritis. To
avoid griping, it should be taken in conjunction with carminative and antispasmodic
herbs. It is the 1,8-dihydroxyanthracene derivatives such as barbaloin,
which have a laxative effect. As glycosides they are not absorbed in the
upper gut but break down to the active aglycone in the colon and rectum.
Laxatives containing anthranoids induce active secretion of water and electrolytes
into the lumen of the gut and inhibit the absorption of electrolytes and
water by the colon. The increased volume of contents of the colon activates
peristalsis. COMBINATIONS Take in conjunction
with antispasmodics or carminatives to counteract griping. Metal salts
are often used to enhance its action (e.g. iron pills). PREPARATION Before eating the
gel the leaves must be washed and cleared of the green skin. Consuming
the outer leaf can cause severe diarrhea and abdominal pain. Also, all
the yellow liquid that drips out of the leaf when it is cut must be washed
away because this has a strong laxative effect. This yellow liquid is found
in the pericyclic cells of the vascular bundles located just beneath the
thick green rind of the leaf. The yellow sap has a number of laxative anthraquinones,
the major being aloin. The laxative action of these anthraquinones may
be associated with considerable abdominal cramping in humans. If the aloin
is retained by using the whole leaf, then this makes the juice extremely
bitter. The hand-filleting
procedure should be used to avoid contamination of the internal gel fillet
with the yellow sap. Filet the leaf, removing the green outer portion,
which contains the aloin, and leaving just the gel that exists in the leaf,
the part being removed representing between five and ten percent of the
gel. That gel hangs together by itself when the leaf is first filleted,
just a few minutes later, the enzymes in the gel will break the structure
down so that it will become a running fluid instead of a standing gel.
The gel can be blended in a kitchen blender. Then some sugar, honey or
maple syrup may be added as well as water or fruit juice to make it more
pleasing to drink. DOSAGE As a laxative, taken
internally, encapsulated dietary supplements of 50-200 mg per day. About
1-3 ounces (1 ounce = 1 tablespoon) of aloe gel can be taken by mouth for
constipation relief. Take a single dose at bedtime or consume this in divided
doses throughout the day. One should start with a small dose and increase
it over a week or so, to avoid diarrhea. Aloes should
be taken for a maximum of 8-10 days, not more than two weeks. CAUTIONS The plant is strongly
purgative so great care should be taken over the dosage. As with anything,
it is possible some people may be allergic to the Aloe gel. The skin and
inner layer of yellow juice of the Aloe leaf must be discarded. Only the
transparent gel is to be used. Over dosage can cause gastritis, diarrhea
and nephritis. As Aloes stimulates uterine contractions, it should be avoided
during pregnancy. Also, because it is excreted in breast milk, it should
be avoided during lactation, as it may be purgative to the child. It should
also be avoided in kidney disorders, hemorrhoids or irritable bowel conditions.
Aloes 