
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 06:45:45 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Teeter Hangups Spinal Stretch Back Stretcher -  New Product - On Sale Now Return2Fitness Search Menu Featured Product Categories Shoulder Brace Knee Brace Plantar Fasciitis Treatment Ankle Brace Cold Therapy | Hot Therapy Back Braces Calf Shin Compression Shorts | Hexpad Supports And Braces Knee Braces Elbow And Arm Supports Shin And Calf Supports Back Braces Ankle Supports Thigh Supports Wrist And Thumb Supports Shoulder Supports Plantar Fasciitis Bunion Splints Neck Supports Tennis Elbow And Golfers Elbow Fitness For Serious Athletes Speed And Quickness Training Resistance Training Lateral Training Plyoboxes Balance And Core Training Stretching Insoles And Heel Pads Insoles Heel Pads Barefoot Science System Cold And Hot Therapy Cold Packs And Wraps Continuous Cooling And Heating Systems Cool And Heat Lotions And Sprays Continuous Cooling System Accessories Trigger  Point Cold And Hot Therapy Far Infrared Heat Therapy Wobble Balance Boards Wobble Boards Compression Shorts And Shirts Compression Shorts And Pants Compression Shirts HexPad Shirts HexPad Shorts Youth Shorts Youth Shirts HexPad Arm And Leg Sleeves Compression Sports Socks Knee And Elbow Pads Compression Recovery Suit Rehabilitation Hand-Wrist-Shoulder Gym Balls And Rollers Stretching Massage Therapy Barefoot Science Inversion Therapy Inversion Tables Inversion Bars And Equipment Lumbar And Cervical Supports And Pillows Lumbar And Cervical Supports And Cushions Electrotherapy Complete Electrotherapy Systems Electrotherapy Electrodes Tapes And Wraps Tape And Taping Supplies Wraps And Bandages Clearance Corner Insole Clearance Knee Brace Clearance Ankle Brace Clearance Rehab Product Clearance Athletic Supporters Electrotherapy Systems Compression Gear Cold And Hot Therapy Wrist Braces Elbow Braces Athletic Tape And Wraps Knee, Elbow, Arm And Leg Protection Back Supports Extra Injury information Foot injuries Lower leg/ankle injuries Knee injuries Thigh injuries Back and Buttock injuries Shoulder injuries Elbow injuries Hand injuries Additional information Home About Us What our customers say Contact us Postage and delivery Privacy Policy Terms and conditions Returns and exchanges FAQ Affiliate Program Links Site map Click here for all Inversion Tables Teeter Hangups Spinal Stretch Back Stretcher -  New Product - On Sale Now Designed for those who need a portable decompression solution while at work or on the go, SpinalStretch is an effective way to decompress the lower spine and provide an easy and quick back pain solution anywhere. SpinalStretch also accommodates those who desire decompression but who are looking for a an alternative to traditional inversion equipment! All you need is a door and a floor! A few minutes a day with SpinalStretch can help target the source of your lower back aches. Decompress with SpinalStretch to help relieve lower back pain. Passive, user-controlled traction allows for the perfect stretch to: * Provide relief to lumbar aches and pains, * rehydrated discs with vital nutrients, * reduce pressure on nerves, * encourage improved alignment of lumbar vertebrae, and * promote improved flexability in the lower back. MSRP is $159 - On Sale Now for $99 Select Size One Size (T-SS1001-DS) $99.99 Teeter Hangups Spinal Stretch Back Stretcher -  New Product - On Sale Now FEATURES: * Compact and Portable: Foldes neatly into an included nylon tote - weighs just 4 lbs! * Ideal for Travel: Perfect for long plane rides that can leave your back fatigued and achy. Fits easily in a laptop roller bag! * No assembly required: SpinalStretch is ready to go out of the box for quick back pain relief literally in seconds! * Easy to Set Up and Use: Hook it to a door, adjust SpinalStretch to your comfort level, lay back and relax. It's that simple! * Value Added: Comes with a Nylon travel bag, chest belt for additional traction, and a user guide with instructional DVD. Product Specifications: * 1-Year Warranty * Packaged dimensions: 20" x 11.5" x 3.5" (51 x 29 x 9 cm) * Packaged weight: 4.5 lbs. (2.5 kgs) * Patent applies. Items  
          Total $0.00 view basket go to checkout Blog Signup Serious Athletes sign up here for monthly eNewsletter Delivered by FeedBurner View Blog Homepage Pricing Policy Our goal is to provide the lowest "every day" prices available online. We do not use phony discounts applied to artificially high prices like many of our competitors. Quantity Pricing Please contact Sales@Return2Fitness.Net for therapist, trainer, team or school quantity pricing. Special Offers A Deluxe Plantar Fasciitis Adjustable Night Splint X-Tremus 170XT Knee Brace - NEW PRODUCT ON SALE NOW- Free  Shipping in Continental US OPPO Medical Secure-Pro Knee Brace - Free Shipping Continental US Te