
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 18:31:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Chlordiazepoxide (Librium) for alcohol withdrawal HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Mental Health » Addiction » Alcoholism » Chlordiazepoxide (Librium) for alcohol withdrawal 79 rate or flag By njmanura Chlordiazepoxide is a prescription only medication prescribed for alcohol detoxification. It prevents and treats alcohol withdrawal features in an alcohol dependent person so the alcohol detoxification process becomes more tolerable. Common brand name for chlordiazepoxide is Librium. Alcohol withdrawal symptoms Common alcohol withdrawal features are tremors, anxiety, illusions, hallucinations, sweating, nausea, vomiting, seizures and delirium tremens. Delirium tremens is a life threatening response to sudden alcohol withdrawal. It usually occurs 48 hours after the sudden reduction of alcohol dose in an alcohol dependent person. Some people can get severe alcohol withdrawal seizures. They can be grand mal type with jerky movements of the limbs, frothing and urine/bowel incontinence. These problems make stopping alcohol a very unpleasant and dangerous option for an alcohol dependent person. However, Chlordiazepoxide prevents most of these symptoms and it even treats them once they are established. Therefore, Chlordiazepoxide is a lifesaving medication and it is helpful drug for the alcohol dependent person. Alcohol Withdrawal Pocketcard by Suzanne Bowden (2006, Cards) Current Bid: $16.11 ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL POCKETCARD - SUZANNE BOWDEN (PAPERBACK) NEW Current Bid: $16.69 60 page ALCOHOLISM ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL PowerPoint Presentation on CD Current Bid: $6.99 How Chlordiazepoxide is prescribed for alcohol withdrawal? Chlordiazepoxide is a prescription only medication and it should be prescribed in a controlled environment like inside a hospital for severe alcohol dependence. However, minor degrees of alcohol dependence can be treated with Chlordiazepoxide as outpatient basis under a medical supervision. Chlordiazepoxide is prescribed in quite high doses and gradually tailed off. Usual starting dose can go up to 200mgs of drug given per day (six hour intervals). Then the dose is gradually tapered depending on the response. Problems associated with Chlordiazepoxide therapy for alcohol withdrawal Since Chlordiazepoxide is a benzodiazepine medication, it can cause severe drowsiness and sedation. But above effects are temporary and will go down once the dose is reduced or drug is stopped. But these side effects make working and driving dangerous, especially when you are needed to perform skilled tasks. It is also dangerous to operate machinery under Chlordiazepoxide. In addition, it is dangerous in the terms of medical point of view to give this drug to patients with severe liver disease with hepatic encephalopathy. Ironically hepatic encephalopathy and alcohol withdrawal can co-exist. This makes it harder to detoxify people with heavy alcohol consumption as an outpatient. In addition, Chlordiazepoxide can cause cognitive impairment, and ataxia. These side effects usually wane off once the patient stops the drug. Summary Chlordiazepoxide is a very useful medication in alcohol withdrawal. It makes alcohol withdrawal more tolerable. Take home message is if you are alcohol dependent, there is hope and you can go to your doctor and enter into alcohol withdrawal program. Further reading Ceroxim uses and side effects Ceroxim is a cefuroxime axetil brand antibiotic that is generally well tolerated. It can be used in wide variety of diseases. Main side effects are diarrhea, and gastro intestinal upset. Use and side effects of Enhancin Enhancin is an antibiotic medication. It is used for various types of infections. Main side effects are gastrointestinal upset and allergic reactions. Jonac uses and side effects Jonac is a medication used for painful conditions. It is a Diclofenac sodium brand that is commonly available as gel and tablet form. Uses and side effects of Sporidex Sporidex is an antibiotic that is widely prescribed that has side effects profile that is well tolerated. Sporidex is commonly prescribed for urinary-tract infections, respiratory-tract infections, middle ear infections, sinus infection, and skin inf Symptoms of Alcoholism and Ten warning signs Alcoholism is a broad term characterized by compulsive drinking and uncontrollable drinking. It is synonymous with Alcohol dependence and has several warning signs. Warning signs encompasses physical, mental and social effects of alcoholism. These ca Alcohol withdrawal: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Side effects of Promethazine (Phenergan) Problems of cholesterol medications Comments Loading... No comments yet. Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 88 njmanura From Sri Lanka 60 Followers 40 Hubs Joined 16 months ago Read more Hubs by njmanura Contact njmanura Related Hubs Top 5 New Zealand Home Remedies by cally2 The meeting that  changed our lives by scentualhealing Alcohol Withdrawal; How Serious Are Your Symptoms? Do You... by recovering addict Alcohol Withdrawal Treatment:  It Is Not As Easy As You... by JawnFC Drug Addiction Treatment:  Suboxone & Subutex by becauseilive 10 Tips for Living Drug, Alcohol, Smoke Free by Mighty Mom Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. te