
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 06:44:57 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.homeopathyhaven.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Feverfew | Homeopathy Haven Homeopathy Haven Pages Home Allergy Homeopathy Arthritis Homeopathy Boiron Homeopathy Homeopathy Books Homeopathy Kits Homeopathy Magnets Homeopathy Medicine Phosphorus Homeopathy Psoriasis Homeopathy Pulsatilla Homeopathy Sepia Homeopathy Sulphur Homeopathy Thuja Homeopathy Categories Homeopathy Articles Homeopathy FAQs Homeopathy News Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 Blogroll Meta Log in WordPress XHTML RSS Comments RSS November 20, 2008 (0) Comments Feverfew – An Herb admin feverfew , herb , herbal medicine The herb Feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) has always been seen as a medicinal herb . As the name implies, folk healers used it as a cure for fevers. Scientists have studied Feverfew, and, though it doesn’t reduce fevers, it was found to be an antispasmodic. Spasms in small blood vessels, which are known to be a cause of migraine headaches, have been shown to be reduced by use of Feverfew. The chief active ingredient has been isolated, and might, someday, lead to a pure extract. Additional clinical studies have found that feverfew can stop vomiting and relieve nausea, while improving digestion. Other studies have reported: – relief from asthma attacks – promotion of restful sleep – relief from the inflammation, and thus the pain, of arthritis. In the 1980′s, British researchers tested feverfew on migraine sufferers and found that 7 out of 10 people reported either fewer or less painful migraines. Some people reported that feverfew aided with depression as well. The leaves of the plant are usually consumed. The most frequent side effect is mouth ulcers, and use should be discontinued if this happens. There are commercial tinctures of feverfew available, or it can be grown at home. Feverfew is easily grown in the US and Europe, as it is a relative of the mint family. It grows as a tall (12-24″ or more) bushy plant, which displays a large number of small white flowers, which will remind you of small daisies. Once planted, it will spread by self seeding and sending out runners. It emerges in the spring, and will continue to grow and bloom all summer if flowers are pinched back. To use medicinally, consume 1 medium sized leaf each day. There are very few recipes for feverfew available. You may want to try putting it into a tossed salad, along with other fresh herbs. Another approach would be to sprinkle chopped feverfew leaves on top of marinara sauce. It could be made into pesto, using your favorite nuts. In summary, the potential benefits of feverfew are many, and this important natural herbal remedy should not be neglected as a treatment for many common health problems. If more information about feverfew is desired, you may want to try using your favourite search engine on this term. There will be a wealth of information available on the internet. Subscribe/Search Subscribe via RSS Feed Subscribe via Email Great Deals Recent Entries Tips On How To Remove Skin Tags Best Resveratrol Viral Bronchitis The Most Wonderful Thing That Give The Genuine Thing Seeking Out Acupuncture For Fertility Things You May Need To Understand About Medical Cannabis In Sacramento Homeopathy Remedies Amazon.com Widgets Tag Cloud acid reflux Acupuncture acupuncture for fertility acupuncture for infertility alternative alternative health alternative medicine alternative_medication anxiety anxiety attacks aromatherapy body cleansing chinese medicine cleansing colon cleanse colon cleansing cosmetics depression detoxification disease electronic cigarettes essential oils fitness health heartburn hemorrhoids herbs home homeopathy homeopathy remedies hypnosis medicine natural natural health natural remedies natural remedy panic attacks psychology Sacramento Medical Marijuana skin treating children with homeopathy treatment Vitamins Weight Loss yeast infection More Great Deals © Copyright 2008. Maggo The