
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 13:36:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Vary: Cookie
X-hacker: If you're reading this, you should visit automattic.com/jobs and apply to join the fun, mention this header.
X-Pingback: http://placidway.wordpress.com/xmlrpc.php

gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico | PlacidWay – Destination For Health & Wellness Tourism PlacidWay – Destination For Health & Wellness Tourism Exotic Journeys to Wellness Skip to content Home About Placidway.com Tag Archives: gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico Mexicali Obesity Solutions Offers Long-Term Weight Loss Benefits Posted on June 25, 2010 | Leave a comment by PlacidWay | Mexicali Obesity Solutions John Price ventured to Mexicali Obesity Solutions almost a year ago, anxious to find an affordable, long-term weight loss solution to his medical condition. Suffering from high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes, John had unsuccessfully tried a variety of weight-loss options, medications, and counseling in the United States. “Well, it’s been about eight months since I had my procedure performed,” says John. “All I can say is that it has been very, very successful. I am down 55 pounds and my diabetes is in remission.” John isn’t the only one to benefit from the skill and expertise provided by Dr. Marco Antonio Sariñana, a highly trained and experienced endoscopic and bariatric surgery specialist.  As one of the growing leaders of bariatric surgery in Mexico, Dr. Sariñana has attracted patients from the United States and around the world. Please Click here to read more…. → Leave a comment Posted in Bariatric Surgery Abroad , Health Tourism , International Healthcare Standards , Medical Tourism , medical tourism mexico , Obesity / Weight Loss Surgery Tagged Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico , After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico , bariatric weight loss Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Banding Surgery Mexico in Mexico , Gastric Bypass Plastic Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Bypass Surgery Costs in Mexico , Gastric Bypass Surgery Information in Mexico , Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery cost in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico , Gastric sleeve weight loss surgery in Mexico , Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico , Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery , Laproscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery in Mexico , Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , Stomach Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico for $7,500 , Mexicali , Mexico Posted on April 27, 2010 | Leave a comment Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico for $7,500 Sleeve Gastrectomy Overview Sleeve gastrectomy is a type of bariatric surgery that drastically reduces the size of the stomach. Also known as a vertical gastrectomy, a partial gastrectomy, gastric reduction, as well as a greater curvature gastrectomy, this type of procedure is offered as an alternative to gastric bypass surgeries and encourages weight-loss in obese patients by removing up to 85% of the stomach. This is a permanent procedure that cannot be reversed, but one that is providing a growing number of obese patients from around the world with life-saving benefits. Please Click Here for more details… → Leave a comment Posted in Health Tourism , Heart Care | Surgery Abroad , International Healthcare Standards , Medical Tourism Tagged After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico , bariatric weight loss Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery cost in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico , Gastric sleeve weight loss surgery in Mexico , Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Central America One Woman’s Journey Toward Weight Loss Posted on March 25, 2010 | Leave a comment by Dr. Marco Sariñana | Mexicali Obesity Solutions Mexicali Obesity Solutions Offers Hope Martha struggled with weight problems. Soon, those weight problems grew into medical problems. Obesity eventually caused enough damage to Martha’s body that she developed sleep apnea, a dangerous condition that causes a person to stop breathing while they sleep. She needed to wear a sleep monitor every night when she went to bed. Her knees and joints grew sore with excess weight, she continually was forced to monitor her blood sugar levels to prevent impending diabetes and she knew the burden placed on her heart was immense. Please Click here to request more information → Leave a comment Posted in Health Tourism , International Healthcare Standards , Medical Tourism Tagged After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico , bariatric weight loss Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery cost in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico , Gastric sleeve weight loss surgery in Mexico , Gastric Weight Loss Surgery in Mexicali , Obesity Weight Loss Surgery in Mexicali , Stomach Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico , Weight Loss Surgery Costs in Mexicali Focus on Endoscopic Bariatric Surgery Posted on January 27, 2010 | Leave a comment by  						PlacidWay | Mexicali Obesity Solutions. New developments and techniques in the field of bariatric surgery provide less invasive procedures, faster healing times, and reduced risk of tissue and surrounding organ damage. One such technique is called endoscopic bariatric surgery. The bariatric surgical subspecialty has been used by Dr. Marco Sariñana Guridi of Mexicali Obesity Solutions for a number of years. Dr. Sariñana specializes in metabolic surgery, diabetes treatment, hypertension, high cholesterol and fatty liver disease treatments combined with weight loss surgical procedures in Mexico. Dr. Sariñana realizes that obesity and weight gain creates multiple body function issues, including sleep apnea, increased risk of hypertension, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and heart disease, as well as increased risks of diabetes, the need for insulin injections, and other conditions that may eventually lead to joint damage as well as multi-system organ damage. Endoscopic Bariatric Surgery: A Brief Overview One of the newer techniques in bariatric surgical procedures, the endoscopic approach to bariatric surgery is considered minimally invasive, and is actually considered a nonsurgical approach to treat obesity through the restriction of the size of the stomach. A tube called an endoscope is inserted into the mouth and threaded into the stomach, enabling bariatric surgeons to reduce the size of the stomach without incisions through the process of stapling. The procedure is known as Transoral Gastroplasty (aka TOGA), and is currently undergoing Phase III clinical trials in the United States, though the technique has been utilized by international bariatric surgeons, including Italy, Belgium and Mexico since 2006. Please Click here to read more… → Leave a comment Posted in Bariatric Surgery Abroad , Health Tourism , International Healthcare Standards , Medical Tourism , medical tourism mexico , Obesity / Weight Loss Surgery Tagged Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico , After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico , bariatric weight loss Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Banding Surgery Mexico in Mexico , Gastric Bypass Plastic Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Bypass Surgery Costs in Mexico , Gastric Bypass Surgery Information in Mexico , Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery cost in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico , Gastric sleeve weight loss surgery in Mexico , Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery in Mexico , Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery , Laproscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery in Mexico , Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , Stomach Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico for $7,000 , Mexicali , Mexico Posted on December 22, 2009 | Leave a comment Sleeve Gastrectomy Overview Sleeve gastrectomy is a type of bariatric surgery that drastically reduces the size of the stomach. Also known as a vertical gastrectomy, a partial gastrectomy, gastric reduction, as well as a greater curvature gastrectomy, this type of procedure is offered as an alternative to gastric bypass surgeries and encourages weight-loss in obese patients by removing up to 85% of the stomach. This is a permanent procedure that cannot be reversed, but one that is providing a growing number of obese patients from around the world with life-saving benefits. Advantages of Sleeve Gastrectomy Sleeve gastrectomy procedures are effective and safe for patients with high-risk and high BMI (body mass index) ranges. In many cases, this surgical procedure allows patients to lose 100 pounds or more, which helps to improve health and reduce medical issues that result from obesity, such as diabetes, high cholesterol, heart disease, as well as lack of mobility and quality of life. Please Click here for more information. → Leave a comment Posted in Cosmetic Surgery Abroad , medical tourism mexico Tagged After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico , bariatric weight loss Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery cost in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico , Gastric sleeve weight loss surgery in Mexico Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico: Only the Best at Mexicali Obesity Solutions Posted on November 20, 2009 | 1 Comment by  						Dr. Marco Sariñana | Mexicali Obesity Surgery A young, 29-year-old woman named Carla was extremely frustrated, sad and depressed because of her weight. Like many women, Carla had endured a combination of diet plans and exercise regimes, but nothing seemed to work to take off the weight and keep it off. No matter how hard she tried, she seemed to continually gain more weight than when she started. While she knew that muscle weighs more than fat, she tried to be patient, but the transition to a slimmer shape never came. She began to grow desperate. Carla contacted Mexicali Obesity Solutions and Dr. Marco Sariñana, a world-class bariatric surgery specialist in Mexicali Mexico. Mexicali Obesity Solutions offers treatment and procedures for a variety of obesity and bariatric needs, including but not limited to sleeve gastrectomy, laparoscopic surgery, gastric balloon, adjustable gastric banding, and other weight loss procedures. After discussing her options with her doctor, Carla underwent a gastric sleeve procedure. Five months later, she has lost weight, continues to lose weight, and is exceedingly happy. Her picture offers a brief glimpse into the enormous change that one woman has undergone as a result of the gastric sleeve procedure, and men and women like Carla encourage the doctors, surgeons and staff at Mexicali Obesity Solutions to continue offering the best in care, treatments, and qualifications in Mexico and Latin America. Please Click Here To Read More. → 1 Comment Posted in Health Tourism , Health Tourism Events , Heart Care | Surgery Abroad , International Healthcare Standards , Medical Tourism Tagged After Gastric Sleeve Surgery in Mexico , bariatric weight loss Surgery in Mexico , Gastric Sleeve Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery cost in Mexico , gastric sleeve surgery mexico in Mexico , Gastric sleeve weight loss surgery in Mexico , Gastric Weight Loss Surgery in Mexicali , Obesity Weight Loss Surgery in Mexicali , Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , Stomach Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico , Weight Loss Program in Mexico , Weight Loss Surgery Costs in Mexicali Search It! Search for: Recent Entries Fertility Treatments from the Cradle of Civilization Focusing on Women at Adiva Future direction of pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) Lovely at 40 – VASER Liposuction helps actress get back in shape Obesity Continues to Rise: Alarming Statistics Promote Change PGD-PCR success for VHL disease : A case report from Superior A.R.T. Mexicali Obesity Solutions Offers Long-Term Weight Loss Benefits Looking Good: Plastic & Aesthetic Surgery in Germany Fertility Options Abroad An In-Depth Look into Bariatric Surgery Links Placidway Theme: Coraline by Automattic . Blog at WordPress.com . Follow Follow “PlacidWay - Destination For Health & Wellness Tourism” Get ever