
Treatment Of 30 Cases of Prolapse Of Lumbar Intervertebral Disc with Acupuncture and Massage > Mebo- Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Online / distance  Training Courses > Mebo--News & Events of Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine from China Home News & Events Online Courses Study in China TCM Palace Forum About Us Account Login User Name: Password: Remember Login Register Forgot Password ? Online Courses Course Sample Course FAQ Tuition & Fee Certificate & Exams Student's Comments Study in China Clinical Internship Advanced Courses TCM Palace Acupuncture Herb Medicine Disease Special Healthy Living TCM Culture TCM Institute About Beijing Beijing guide Scenic Spots Culture & Art Customs & Tradition You are here > News & Events Register | Login News & Events Current Articles | Archives | Search 05 Treatment Of 30 Cases of Prolapse Of Lumbar Intervertebral Disc with Acupuncture and Massage mebo posted on June 05, 2009 01:55 Objective: To observe the therapeutic effect of prolapse of lumbar intervertebral disc treated with Acupuncture and massage. Methods: The Main point were Mingmen(GV4), Yaoyangguan (GV3) and Ashi points in the lumbar region. The patient was in a prone position with both arms fully relaxed. After routine sterilization of the point area, Acupuncture needles were inserted quickly and to a certain depth by rotating technique till the operator felt tight under the needle and the patient felt soreness and numbness in the local areas. The needls ware retained for 30 minutes and manipulated once again every 10 minutes. Even-needling technique was applied. The treatment was given once every day, 10 treatments made one course. The next course of treatment was continuous after two days rest. After each acupuncture treatment, massage and the passive movement on the spine of the back and lumbar regions were followed. The manipulations were present as follows: (l) Relaxing the lumbar with vibration and traction. The Patient was in a supination, his axillary regions were utilized and the whole body was fully relaxed. The operator held the ankle of the affected leg with both hands to vibrate the leg for several times. The patient was asked to relax, then the leg was flexed to the chest and sudden pulling was done. The same manipulation was repeated on the health leg; (2) Straight and oblique Pulling: The patient was in a pronation with both arms relaxed. The operator stood on the one side, one hand pressed Mingmen (GV4) or the spine and the other one pulled the shoulder. The force of both hands was exerted at same time to let the spine rotate. The hand on the lumbar region moved along the spine. Or one hand pressed the lumbar region and the other one held up the leg and did rotation and traction. The both legs could be moved together. The patient lay on one side with one leg extended and the other once flexed. The operator stood on the side of the patient one hand pressed the affected area, the other hand held the anterior part of the thigh and pulled backward forcefully. The same manipulation was repeated on the health leg, too. Or the pulling was performed by one hand pressed the shoulder and the other elbow pressed the hip region. The force of the hand and elbow was exerted simultaneously and in the opposite directions. Or the shoulder and hip were pressed by both elbows or hands respectively, the lumbar region was rotated in a proper degree by the force exerted by both elbows or hands in the opposite directions. Injury should be avoided. The same manipulation was given on both legs;(3) Rotating lumbar method: The patient was in a sitting position and the lower extremities were stabilized. The operator stood on the left side of the patient and his left hand held the right shoulder of the patient by the left arm crossing the body through the patient's left axilla. The right hand of the patient held the left elbow of the operator. The operator's right hand pressed the affected lumbar vertebrae. When the patient was asked to rotate the lumbar from the right to the left to the limit the operator rotated the patient's lumbar with the right hand pressing and a click was heard. The same manipulation was repeated on the other side. Remarks: The patient should be in a suitable position and relax completely, normal breathing. Every step of the manipulation should be given coordinately and skillfully. The force exerted should be in a proper degree. Each manipulation was repeated 3 to 5 times. Each treatment lasted 15 to 20 minutes and 10 treatment made a course. Results: Of 300 cases, the duration of sickness varied from 2 weeks to 15 years, and the duration of the treatment was from 1 to 3 courses, 256 cases (85.3%) were cured (Pain and other symptoms completely disappeared without recurrence by half year's following visit): 25 cases (8.3%) significantly effective (Pain and other symptoms disappeared and recurrence happened occasionally in half year); l4 cases (4.7%) improved (pain basically disappeared and recurred by some factors) and 5 cases (l.7%) had no effect (no significant improvement of the symptoms). The total effective rate was 98.3%. By Ying Chenglou The Convalescent Center of Civil Administration, Donghai County, Jiangsu 222300,China Statement | About us | Job Opportunities Copyrig