Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

about acupuncture and chinese herbal medicine | Laurie Binder LAc For Radiant 
				Health (310) 564-4325 Welcome to Los Angeles Acupuncture and Wellness! Offering Acupuncture , Chinese Herbal Medicine and alternative 
				health services to the Los Angeles area.  Laurel Binder 
				uses Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and her background in 
				Western medicine to provide the highest standard of health 
				enhancement. HOME SERVICES - TREATMENTS WHAT IS ACUPUNCTURE ? ABOUT THE ACUPUNCTURIST TESTIMONIALS MEDIA FERTILITY - INFERTILITY ISSUES FAQ Newsletter Signup appointment deposit CONTACT More and more people are 
turning to Acupuncture where traditional western medicine alone has failed.  
Still, many find this ancient Chinese medical technique mysterious.  Below 
is a concise introduction to Acupuncture which will help anyone who is 
interested to learn about it. What is Acupuncture? Acupuncture is an important 
part of a Traditional Chinese Medicine system with a history of over 2500 years.  Already used 
widely throughout Asia and Europe, Acupuncture is considered one of the newest 
primary health care modalities in the US.  So far over 12 million Americans have 
turned to Acupuncture for help, and many western physicians as well as medical 
researchers have experienced its powerful healing effects. The concept behind it The main concept behind 
Acupuncture is an energy force called “Qi” (pronounced chee) which circulates 
throughout the human body using specialized pathways called Meridians or 
channels with “Acupuncture points” where the energy is most concentrated.  It is believed that free flowing of the Qi keeps a person healthy.  If 
the flow of the Qi is blocked for any reason, illness results.  Acupuncture 
restores the proper balance and flow of the Qi, returning health to the patient.  
(more about Qi and Qi Gong) Healing effects of 
Acupuncture One of the most common uses of 
Acupuncture is pain relief.  This includes migraine, backache, period pain, 
arthritic and rheumatic pain, post-operative pain, and post-injury pain. The World Health 
Organization has declared Acupuncture successful treats a variety of medical 
conditions: - Ear, nose, and throat 
disorders:  common cold, sinusitis, tonsillitis, hayfever, rhinitis and tooth 
pain. - Respiratory disorders: 
acute bronchitis and bronchial asthma . - Gastro-intestinal 
disorders: gastritis, indigestion duodenal ulcer, hiccoughs, colitis, 
constipation and diarrhea. - Eye disorders: Acute 
conjunctivitis, central retinitis, juvenile myopia and mild cataract. - Neurological and 
Muscular-skeletal: Trigeminal neuralgia, headache, stroke syndromes, Meniere's 
disease, neuralgia, bladder dysfunction, frozen shoulder, tennis elbow, 
sciatica, lower back pain and osteoarthritis. Other conditions treated 
include menstrual, menopausal and pregnancy related conditions, stress, 
depression, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, sports injuries, and drug withdrawal. Acupuncture is more than just 
inserting tiny needles into your body.  It is a complex system combining other 
complimentary techniques which can includ e: -Moxibustion (warming) -Cupping -Massage -Herbs -Electro-Stimulation Herbs are usually taken in 
addition to Acupuncture to enhance its healing effect. Response to 
Acupuncture After a person receives 
Acupuncture, he or she will experience a sense of general well-being and 
relaxation.  It is reported that an individual feels an improvement in sleep, 
digestion, and overall energy levels.  Since Acupuncture heals the body through 
natural techniques, side effects are very rare.  Mild exacerbation may be felt 
after first treatment, but subsides with additional treatment.  Acupuncture is 
safe for person of all ages including children and the elderly, although 
treatment for the elderly is usually done to reduce discomfort and management of 
the condition. Conclusion In short, Acupuncture can 
strengthen the physical body, prevent disease, control pain, enhance health, 
assist in sports performance, addiction withdrawal, and achieve longevity. The 
Background of TCM SOME ADVANTAGES OF USING TRADITIONAL CHINESE 
      MEDICINE privacy 
			policy - terms of service Copyright © 2011, Laurie 
			Binder Los Angeles Acupuncture and Wellness infertility | infertility in women | infertility treatment | infertility treatments | acupuncture and infertility | acupunctu