
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 09:29:55 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Healthnotes | Probiotics: Optimize Your Digestive Health Cart Log in Why? Store locator Recipes Market specials Shopping list Videos Podcasts Find us Edmonds Fremont Greenlake Issaquah Kirkland Redmond Seward Park View Ridge West Seattle Co-op Office Shop Produce Meat and Poultry Seafood Deli Deli Platter Menu Cheese Bakery Coffee and Tea Custom-order cakes Grocery Aisles Bulk Coffee and Tea Wine and Beer Health and Body Care Store locations Product standards Advertised specials PCC Taste Shopping list Product databases Gluten-free living Non-GMO Shopping Kid-approved products Bulk foods Cheese Product brochures Gift cards Recalls/Product alerts Cook Recipes PCC Cooks classes Walk, Talk Taste classes Product how-to guides Gluten-free living PCC Taste Kitchen basics PCC videos Gardening with Ciscoe New Day Northwest Meet Our Producers Quick Bites Cooking videos Learn Our product standards The latest from PCC Sound Consumer PCC Taste E-newsletters Issues and education PCC Advocates Public policy statements PCC Green Non-GMO program Gluten-free living Ask the nutritionist Producer profiles PCC Cooks classes Healthnotes PCC Podcasts Videos PCC Farmland Trust Participate Upcoming events Member meetings PCC Kid Picks PCC Cooks classes Connect with us Social media Blogs E-newsletters Monthly poll PCC Healthy Kids Community giving PCC Food Bank Program PCC Scrip Donations Volunteer Partner spotlight Join Us Member benefits Join now Membership payment Address change About PCC PCC careers Contact us What's a co-op How our co-op works Board of trustees Member meetings Annual election Articles and bylaws Policy governance Home > learn > Healthnotes E-mail Print Tweet Probiotics: Optimize Your Digestive Health Optimize Your Digestive Health By Victoria Dolby Toews, MPH 'Prebiotics' provide the right food for probiotic bacteria to thrive Related Topics Yummy Recipes with Yogurt Probiotics Think you might want to swallow live bugs? No, it’s not a reality show stunt, it’s actually something you might want to do if you have digestive problems, such as milk intolerance or diarrhea after using antibiotics. These “good bugs” are probiotic bacteria – also known as beneficial bacteria – that live in your gut and contribute to your everyday health and well-being. SUPPLEMENT: Fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) USED FOR : Indigestion and prevention of eczema ACTION : A “prebiotic,” which is a source of food for friendly bacteria in the gut HOW TO TAKE : 2,000 to 3,000 mg per day with meals, reduce dosage if you experience gas Love That Bug Active-culture yogurt provides probiotic bacteria, as does kefir (drinkable yogurt), cottage cheese, and some milks; there are even snack bars on the market, such as Attune bars and Lifeway Kefir Wellness Bars, with probiotic bacteria. Probiotic dietary supplements are available as powder, capsules, tablets, chewables, and liquid. STRAIN: Bifidobacterium lactis USED FOR : Diarrhea (post-antibiotic and traveler’s) ACTION : Restores gut microflora HOW TO TAKE : 1 to 3 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. Start before antibiotic use and continue afterwards for as many days as the antibiotics were used or start a few days before a trip and continue daily during travel. STRAIN: Lactobacillus acidophilus USED FOR : Strengthening immune system and fighting yeast infection ACTION : Creates acidic environment to discourage growth of harmful microorganisms and produces natural antibiotics HOW TO TAKE : 1 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. Another yeast infection option: insert capsule as a vaginal suppository or apply active-culture yogurt daily to the vagina for up to two weeks (and once a week for prevention). STRAIN: Lactobacillus acidophilus CL 1285 USED FOR : General digestion aid ACTION : Contributes healthy bacteria to the gut; inhibits reproduction of harmful bacteria HOW TO TAKE : 1 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. STRAIN: Lactobacillus acidophilus DDS-1 USED FOR : Lactose intolerance ACTION : Produces lactase to digest lactose (milk sugar) HOW TO TAKE : 1 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. STRAIN: Lactobacillus casei USED FOR : Diarrhea (post-antibiotic and traveler’s) ACTION : Replenishes healthy gut flora HOW TO TAKE : 1 to 3 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. Start before antibiotic use and continue afterwards for as many days as the antibiotics were used or start a few days before a trip and continue daily during travel. STRAIN: Lactobacillus GG USED FOR : Diarrhea (infectious, post-antibiotic, and traveler’s), irritable bowel syndrome, strengthening immune system, and prevention of tooth decay ACTION : Replenishes gut flora; blocks growth of harmful bacteria HOW TO TAKE : 1 to 3 billion live organisms per day for adults or follow label directions; kids age 6 to 12 can take one-half of the adult dose and for under age 6 years old, take one-fourth of the adult dose. Start before antibiotic use and continue afterwards for as many days as the antibiotics were used or start a few days before a trip and continue daily during travel. STRAIN: Lactobacillus plantarum 299v USED FOR : Irritable bowel syndrome or other digestive upset leading to pain, gas, bloating, and diarrhea ACTION : Balances gut flora and inhibits growth of unhealthy bacteria HOW TO TAKE : 10 to 20 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. STRAIN: Lactobacillus reuteri USED FOR : Diarrhea (infectious) ACTION : Produces natural antibiotic to inhibit growth of harmful bacteria HOW TO TAKE : 1 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. STRAIN: Lactobacillus reuteri RC-14 and L. rhamnosus GR-1 USED FOR : Yeast infection (especially to prevent recurrence) ACTION : Inhibits growth of harmful bacteria and yeast HOW TO TAKE : 5 to 10 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. STRAIN: Saccharomyces boulardii USED FOR : Diarrhea (Crohn’s disease-related, post-antibiotic, and traveler’s) ACTION : Promotes healthy gut flora HOW TO TAKE : 5 to 10 billion live organisms one to four times a day. STRAIN: Streptococcus thermophilus USED FOR : Diarrhea (infectious, post-antibiotic, and traveler’s) ACTION : Restores gut flora and inhibits growth of harmful bacteria HOW TO TAKE : 1 to 3 billion live organisms per day or follow label directions. Start before antibiotic use and continue afterwards for as many days as the antibiotics were used or start a few days before a trip and continue daily during travel. Sources Collado MC, Isolauri E, Salminen S, et al. The impact of probiotic on gut health. Curr Drug Metab 2009;10:68–78. Heczko PB, Strus M, Kochan P. Critical evaluation of probiotic activity of lactic acid bacteria and their effects. J Physiol Pharm 2006;57(suppl 9):5–12. Hickson M, D'Souza AL, Muthu N, et al. Use of probiotic Lactobacillus preparation to prevent diarrhoea associated with antibiotics: randomised double blind placebo controlled trial. BMJ 2007;335:80. Victoria Dolby Toews, MPH, is a health journalist who has written or co-authored nine books. She always packs along probiotics when traveling. Copyright © 2012 Aisle7. All rights reserved. Aisle7.com Learn more about Aisle7, the company. Learn more about the authors of Aisle7 products. Navigation Healthnotes Food Guide Healthnotes Recipes Healthy Eating Modified Diets Health Conditions A-Z Health Centers Vitamins, Minerals, & Herbs A-Z Vitamins & Minerals only Herbal Remedies only Diet Supplements Fitness Supplements Homeopathy A-Z by Remedy Medicine Interactions A-Z by Medication Holistic Health About Aisle7™ Featured video Collards: Some tasty ideas for these nutrient-rich green (01:31) Latest podcast Ask the Nutritionist: Plant-based diets Additional content Blog posts A beer and a magic carpet ride? Is sugar toxic? More about sugar and sweeteners Roundabout to Everywhere? Charles de Gaulle: just passing through... Perk up: new coffee blends to try at PCC in March Recent recipes Mixed Greens, Lima Beans and Radishes with Lime Vinaigrette Pan-fried Potatoes and Onions Peruvian-style Chicken Taco Filling Peruvian-style Tempeh for Tacos Sweet Potato Quinoa Biscotti with Chocolate Chips Contact us | Jobs | About PCC | Site map | Privacy policy | Terms of use | Vendor information | Mobile site Copy