
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 23:49:28 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

EngenderHealth : EngenderHealth at the International AIDS Conference 2010 Donate Now About Us Careers Blog eNewsletter Contact Us Print This Page Share This Page Our Work Overview Quality, Rights, and Change Overview Every Minute Counts Engaging Men in Reproductive Health Key Family Planning Insights Millennium Development Goals Advancing Family Planning Overview Informed Choice and Consent Long-Acting and Permanent Methods Vasectomy Integration with HIV and AIDS Services Maternal Health Anti-Prostitution Pledge Overview Maternal Health Task Force Fistula Postabortion Care Eclampsia and Pre-Eclampsia Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission Essential & Emergency Obstetric Care Postpartum Hemorrhage Cervical Cancer HIV, AIDS, and STIs Overview Reducing Stigma and Discrimination HIV Care and Treatment Integrating HIV and Other Reproductive Health Services Men As Partners® Male Circumcision Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission Cervical Cancer Engaging Men As Partners in Reproductive Health Overview Men As Partners® MenEngage Partnering with Youth Overview Improving Clinical Quality Overview COPE® Infection Prevention Advocacy and Policy Overview Top 5 Actions for the New Administration Major Projects Overview The ACQUIRE Tanzania Project The AWARE II Project The CHAMPION Project Fistula Care Male Circumcision Consortium Maternal Health Task Force The R3M Project The RESPOND Project Recent Projects Success Stories Success Stories Our Countries Overview Africa Angola Burkina Faso Côte d’Ivoire Democratic Republic of the Congo Ethiopia Ghana Guinea Mali Kenya Niger Nigeria Rwanda Sierra Leone South Africa Tanzania Togo Uganda Asia and Near East Bangladesh India Nepal The Americas By Alphabet Recent Countries Azerbaijan Benin Bolivia Brazil Cameroon Cape Verde Chad China Gambia Guatemala Guinea-Bissau Liberia Mozambique The Philippines Namibia Ukraine Vietnam Publications and Resources Overview Family Planning Overview Vasectomy Female Sterilization Reversible Methods HIV, AIDS, and Sexually Transmitted Infections Maternal Health Overview Obstetric Fistula Obstetric and Delivery Care Postabortion Care Postpartum Hemorrhage Counseling, Informed Choice, and Informed Consent Improving Clinical Quality Overview COPE® Self-Assessment Process Facilitative Supervision Quality Improvement at the Service Site Promoting Gender Equity Overview How to Order Publications Media Center Overview In the News Links to Media Items Press Releases & Announcements Online Videos YouTube and Social Networks Contact Us What You Can Do Overview Support Us Donate Now Become a Member Give Stock Become a Partner for a Better Life Give the Gift of Membership Leave a Legacy of Hope Shop for EngenderHealth Celebrate Mothers and Families The EngenderHealth Store IRA Charitable Rollover Stay Connected Advocate for Change Change the World Subscribe to Action Alerts YouTube and Social Networks Members Become a Member Give the Gift of Membership Account Login Home : Media Center : Press Releases & Announcements : EngenderHealth at the International AIDS Conference 2010 Overview In the News Press Releases & Announcements Online Videos YouTube and Social Networks Contact Us Home Help us create change that lasts, delivering quality health care in the world’s poorest communities. Visit the conference web site Paul Perchal, director of EngenderHealth’s HIV/STI Program RELATED LINKS: Download the list of EngenderHealth's events at the conference Read about EngenderHealth's work with HIV and AIDS Beginning on Sunday, July 18, policymakers, scientists, program  experts, persons living with HIV, and others committed to ending the  AIDS pandemic will gather in Vienna, Austria, for AIDS 2010, the 18th  International AIDS Conference. Visit us at Booth #418! Paul Perchal, director of EngenderHealth’s HIV/STI  Program, will be among the conference participants. Paul’s commitment to  this field is in part the legacy of losing two of his closest friends  to AIDS during the mid-1990s. Gearing up for the conference, the theme  of which is “Rights Here, Right Now,” Paul offers his perspective on the  upcoming week in this brief Q&A: As we head into the conference, what do you see as the most  vital issues facing the field? Universal access to prevention, care and treatment for people living  with HIV and AIDS, regardless of where they live, remains paramount. The  economic crisis means that donors are rethinking their priorities, and  that some of the gains we’ve made in recent years could be undermined.   There’s also renewed focus on human rights, and increased recognition  that in places where HIV stigma persists, people just aren’t getting  tested. Likewise, pregnant women are not accessing care and treatment to  prevent transmitting the virus to their newborns. We really need more  effective strategies to reduce  stigma and its effects . Male circumcision is also receiving wide attention. It has been  proven to reduce the risk of HIV transmission in men by up to 60%, and  many governments are now introducing large-scale programs to make the  procedure widely available. In Kenya, for example, the government is  rapidly expanding  services so that 1.1 million men can opt for the procedure by 2015.  While not a panacea, male circumcision is an essential tool for HIV  prevention that is currently not available to millions of men who want  it. How will EngenderHealth be represented at the conference? EngenderHealth’s expertise in reducing HIV-related stigma, engaging  men to prevent HIV in their relationships and communities, and  preventing mother-to-child transmission, along with what we’re learning  in our large-scale male circumcision program in Kenya, will be showcased  through special satellite sessions, oral presentations, and more than  20 posters. I’m especially excited that we’ll be sharing the results of  our safety study of the Shang  Ring , an innovative male circumcision device. What are you most looking forward to? The International AIDS Conference is always an opportunity to be part  of the conversation about the direction the field is going in. It’s  also inspiring to learn the latest in technical and clinical  breakthroughs, and to engage with young and emerging leaders. Of course,  it’s also great to catch up with colleagues. The opportunity for an  exchange of ideas around our innovative work and for collective  problem-solving is really incomparable. © 2011 EngenderHealth, all rights reserved. Read our terms of use and privacy policy . Vis