<http://wledge.net/?p=4964>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Wed, 30 Jul 2008 03:36:14 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Flexibility and Strength Exercises Can Help Relieve Back Pain Knowledge Net Subscribe Disease & Illness Health & Fitness Home & Family Recreation & Sports Reference & Education Browse > Knowledge Net / Health & Fitness / Flexibility and Strength Exercises Can Help Relieve Back Pain Flexibility and Strength Exercises Can Help Relieve Back Pain by Kim Archer If you have ever had a serious backache, you can appreciate just how vital your back is – even for activities you think don’t entail the back. For example, squeezing a tennis ball utilizes more muscles than the ones in your hand; the latissimus dorsi and other back muscles are also employed during this movement. The latissimus dorsi or “lats” for short, are the large muscles on one’s side – in men these produce the “triangle shape” when well defined. Try squeezing a tennis ball as an exercise – do you feel it? You will experience a tensing of these muscles on the same side of your body as the arm used to squeeze the ball. If you have back pain, you can’t miss this. Strong back muscles are key to playing any sport. They are used for coordination, balance and speed, as well as making a strong foundation for the movement of your limbs. Following are a few simple exercises which you can use to improve the strength and flexibility of these important muscles. You will get the most benefit out of these exercises when they are done on a firm (not hard, just firm) surface. A hard surface will cause unnecessary discomfort on bony parts while doing these exercises. Knee to Chest Lie on your back and clasp your hands behind one thigh. Pull slowly toward the chest, keeping the other leg flat on the ground. Vary the action by flexing the ankle – first pointing the toe, then pulling it back toward the knee – at the same time as you stretch the leg. Hold each position for 5 seconds, then switch legs and repeat. Do 10 reps. Rotations Do this one while lying back with your feet flat on the floor, knees together and raised. Extend your arms but keep them close to your body and keep your palms flat on the floor as well. Lift your feet just slightly off the ground and by moving your knee, rotate your torso. Move your knees a little to the left, then right. Alternate the exercise by crossing your arms over your chest, then repeat. As you continue to practice this exercise, you will build flexibility and will be able to have a wider range of motion with this exercise. Eventually, you’ll be able to touch your knee to the floor. Pelvic Press Lie down on your back, knees raised and feet flat on the floor. Push the small of the back into the floor, feel the tension in the lower abdominals. Vary the action by moving your feet together and performing the exercise, then slightly apart and repeat. As you press into the ground, hold for 5 seconds, but continue to breath slowly and normally. Pelvic Lift Again, lie on your back with feet flat on the ground, knees raised. Cross your arms over your chest and legs and knees together. Raise your buttocks slightly off the floor and hold this position for five seconds. Lower them slowly back to the floor, count to two and repeat. Breathe slowly and normally while doing this exercise. Dog Stretches Starting position for this exercise is on all fours with your head raised – look forward to achieve proper posture for this exercise. As you lower your arms, arch your back and hold this position for two seconds before returning to your starting position. Extend one leg, parallel to the floor (or as close to parallel as possible). Hold this position for three seconds, then return to starting position again. This exercise can cause hip, leg or back pain in some – if it does this for you, stop this exercise immediately. Repeat this exercise with the other leg. You can mix it up by extending your leg with toe pointed, then flex your ankle in a perpendicular direction to the leg; hold this position for two seconds, then repeat. You should do ten reps of this exercise for each leg. Never perform these exercises if they produce back pain. Mild discomfort from inactivity is natural. Pain is a signal that something is wrong. Consult your physician. About the Author: Kim Archer knows what it’s like to suffer from chronic back pain . She is a regular contributor to Cure Your Back Pain , a great information source on causes and treatments of back pain. Exercises For Lower Back Pain: Relief Is Here There are many simply exercises for lower back pain that can be performed easily in the comfort of your home. There is no need to have the assistance of a therapist with these simple exercises. These exercises will strengthen the... Back Pain Sufferers:  Are You Doing The Wrong Exercises? If you suffer from back pain, you\'re certainly not alone. It\'s estimated that 40% of the population will suffer from back pain at some point in their lives. Most of these problems will center on the lower back, which seems... Exercises to Relieve Your Sciatica Do not be misled into thinking that you have been given a diagnosis if someone has told you you are suffering with \'sciatica\'. The term sciatica is only a descriptive one. If you had pains in your head, I take... Managing Chronic Back Pain We all get some back pain now and again. Perhaps you overdid it a little playing tennis, or lifted a few too many heavy things. Your back will probably hurt a little bit for a day or two.... Relieve Back Pain Now With Inversion Tables Doctors agree that one of the biggest non-critical risks to one\'s health in present day society is going to be back pain. This is especially true if the patient is part of the group of people who suffer from chronic... Filed Under Health & Fitness Recent Posts Manifesting Spirtual Happiness and Success What make a mountain bike ready for a rugged drive? Discount Area Rugs: Insider Information Determine The Physical Therapy Equipment You Need For Your Office Lung Cancer – Are You Still Smoking? Consolidate College Loans: A Look at Its Pros and Cons Role of mountain bike parts in mountain bike riding A Few Things To Know Five Quick And Easy Ways To Nourish Your Skin Invisible Illness and Friends Who Don’t Get It: What to Do Online Nursing Schools: RN BSN Degrees How Mountain Bike Gears Work Improve Your Flooring Improve Your Life Using Over The Counter Medications For Treating Acne Valentines Romance Tips for Women with a Chronic Illness Copyright © 2012 All rights reserved Kn