<http://www.what-is-obesity.com/?p=41>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Obesity Surgery Obesity Surgery Search Home Obesity Archives Obesity Articles Privacy Policy What is Obesity? Obesity Surgery By Obesity Expert Leonard Smeltmann Obesity surgery (also called Bariatric surgery or weight loss surgery ) has been practiced since the mid-1950s. People undergo obesity surgery for a variety of reasons, but the most common reason is to improve their health and quality of life. Particularly in the case of morbid obesity, there can be serious and complicated health risks associated with excess body weight, and a range of other illnesses and diseases that become more prevalent, such as asthma, type 2 diabetes, back pain, as well as heart and liver difficulties. Obesity Surgery The most well known form of obesity surgery is the Gastric Bypass. Gastric bypass procedures segment the patient’s stomach into two sections: a small upper section of about 30mL, and a bigger remaining section of about 400mL. The small intestine is then adjusted surgically so that both stomach sections are still connected to it. The end result of this type of obesity surgery is that the patient will be unable to eat as much as they previously did; therefore their energy intake will decrease. As the body compensates for this reduction in calories, it will burn body fat to overcome the energy shortfall. This typo of obesity surgery is extremely effective. Another surgical obesity option is “ Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding ” or Lap Band for short. The Lap Band has been available since the 1990s, and is still a very effective solution to morbid obesity. This procedure involves placing a Lap Band on the stomach, which works to limit the size that the stomach can stretch to, causing the patient to feel full after eating only a small amount of food. The lap band is installed using keyhole surgery (laparoscopic surgery) and each band is customised for the patient. A saline solution is then injected into the lap band to create a smaller gastric band, further limiting the food that the patient can comfortably consume. On excellent attribute of the lab band is that it can be adjusted to make it tighter or looser around the stomach, and is therefore able to adjust based on the patient’s dietary requirements. Biliopancreatic Diversion , or BPD for short, is another form of obesity surgery. This procedure was first practiced in the 1970s. It is a comparatively complex operation that surgically removes a large percentage (50-75%) of the patient’s stomach and bypasses quite a lot of the gut. Similar in concept to the other obesity surgeries mentioned, BPD aims to decrease the effective size of the patient’s stomach, as well as preventing the absorption of nutrients by bypassing the gut. This procedure can be performed laparoscopically but due to the complexity of the procedure it is more often undertaken by making an abdominal incision. A variation of the BDP is called the Duodenal Switch . Like the BDP, the duodenal switch surgery removes a large portion of the stomach (usually about 70%), and then re-routes a section of the small intestine, reducing the amount of time that the patient’s body has to absorb the nutrients and calories from the food consumed. For some patient’s the amount of fat absorbed into their system may be as little as 20% of the fat they consume. Obesity Surgery Return to the top of: Obesity Surgery Obesity Obesity In Children Child Obesity Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Obesity Help Laparoscopic Surgery Overeating Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome Lap Band Complications Morbidly Obese Bariatric Recipes Weight Loss Recipes Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Vitamin Supplementation What are the Costs of Bariatric or Weight Loss Surgery? Bariatric Surgery Costs Bariatric Weight Loss Options Obesity Weight Loss Bariatric Food: Healthy Alternatives for Bariatric Patients Bariatric Foods Bariatric Treatment Centers Bariatric Surgery: Definition Definition of Bariatric Bariatric Nurse Bariatric Transport Bariatric Band Surgery Bariatric Lift Bariatric Banding Western Bariatric Bariatric Surgery Hospital © What is Obesity? 2011 We hope you have enjoyed reading " Obesity Surgery " here at What is Obesity?.com! The article " Obesity Surgery " is provided for information only, and should not be taken as advice on any topic. Please read our Privacy