
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Expires: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 16:16:38 GMT
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 16:16:38 GMT
Cache-Control: private, max-age=0
Last-Modified: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 18:18:02 GMT
ETag: "c13a80a9-6fad-4195-8671-16b88c2d816d"
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Server: GSE

ironminds skip to main | skip to sidebar News Feed Comments ironminds Ironminds is a leading source for trustworthy and timely health news and information. Thursday, January 26, 2012 L-Glutamine and gastrointestinal function 0
comments 6:17 AM
Posted by Evan Labels: colitis , crohn's , crohn's disease , L-Glutamine , ulcerative colitis L-glutamine is the most prevalent amino acid in the bloodstream and because human cells readily synthesize it, it is usually considered a non-essential amino acid. It is found in high concentration in skeletal muscle, lung, liver, brain, and stomach tissue. Skeletal muscle contains the greatest intracellular concentration of glutamine, comprising up to 60 percent of total body glutamine stores, and is considered the primary storage depot and exporter of glutamine to other tissues. Under certain pathological circumstances the body’s tissues need more glutamine than the amount supplied by diet and biosynthesis. During catabolic stress intracellular glutamine levels can drop more than 50 percent, and it is under these circumstances that supplemental glutamine becomes necessary. In times of metabolic stress, glutamine is released into circulation, where it is transported to the tissue in need. Intracellular skeletal muscle glutamine concentration is affected by various insults, including injury, sepsis, prolonged stress, starvation, and the use of glucocorticoids. Therefore, glutamine has been re-classified as a conditionally essential amino acid. Research demonstrates glutamine supplementation may be beneficial when added to total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for surgery, trauma, and cancer patients. In addition, evidence suggests it may provide benefit for certain gastrointestinal conditions, wound healing, critically ill neonates, HIV/AIDS patients, immune enhancement in endurance athletes, and prevention of complications associated with chemotherapy, radiation, and bone marrow transplant. Biochemistry L-glutamine accounts for 30-35 percent of the amino acid nitrogen in the plasma. It contains two ammonia groups, one from its precursor, glutamate, and the other from free ammonia in the bloodstream. One of glutamine’s roles is to protect the body from high levels of ammonia by acting as a “nitrogen shuttle.” Thus, glutamine can act as a buffer, accepting, then releasing excess ammonia when needed to form other amino acids, amino sugars, nucleotides, and urea. This capacity to accept and donate nitrogen makes glutamine the major vehicle for nitrogen transfer among tissues. Glutamine is one of the three amino acids involved in glutathione synthesis. Glutathione, an important intracellular antioxidant and hepatic detoxifier, is comprised of glutamic acid, cysteine, and glycine. Clinical Indications Gastrointestinal Disease The gastrointestinal tract is by far the greatest user of glutamine in the body, as enterocytes in the intestinal epithelium use glutamine as their principal metabolic fuel. Most of the research on glutamine and its connection to intestinal permeability has been conducted in conjunction with the use of TPN. Commercially available TPN solutions do not contain glutamine, which can result in atrophy of the mucosa and villi of the small intestine. Addition of glutamine to the TPN solution reverses mucosal atrophy associated with various gastrointestinal conditions. Research has demonstrated glutamine-enriched TPN decreases villous atrophy, increases jejunal weight, and decreases intestinal permeability. Trauma, infection, starvation, chemotherapy, and other stressors are all associated with a derangement of normal intestinal permeability. One potential consequence of increased intestinal permeability is microbial translocation. Bacteria, fungi, and their toxins may translocate across the mucosal barrier into the bloodstream and cause sepsis. In numerous animal studies of experimentally induced intestinal hyperpermeability, the addition of glutamine or glutamine dipeptides (stable dipeptides of glutamine with alanine or glycine) to TPN improved gut barrier function, as well as immune activity in the gut. Conditions characterized by increased intestinal permeability that might benefit from glutamine supplementation include food allergies and associated conditions, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis , and irritable bowel syndrome. A clinical study of ulcerative colitis patients demonstrated that feeding 30 g daily of glutamine-rich germinated barley foodstuff (GBF) for four weeks resulted in significant clinical and endoscopic improvement, independent of disease state. Disease exacerbation returned when GBF treatment was discontinued. It has also been suggested that cabbage juice consumption may provide benefit to patients with gastric ulcers and gastritis, by virtue of its high glutamine content. Wound Healing The gastrointestinal tract has a large number of immune cells along its length — fibroblasts, lymphocytes, and macrophages. The ability of glutamine to nourish these immune cells may account for its positive impact on the gastrointestinal tract and immunity. Healing of surgical wounds, trauma injuries, and bums is accomplished in part by the actions of these immune cells. Their proper functioning is dependent on glutamine as a metabolic fuel for growth and proliferation. Therefore, a depletion of intracellular glutamine can slow growth of these cells, and ultimately prolong healing. A small clinical study conducted recently in Poland demonstrated glutamine-supplemented TPN rapidly improved a number of immune parameters in malnourished surgical patients with sepsis. Additional clinical trials also suggest that glutamine supplementation, as well as arginine and omega-3 fatty acids, may promote restoration of normal tissue function and intestinal permeability in post-operative patients. Wednesday, January 26, 2011 Fed up of ulcerative colitis controlling your life and activities? 0
comments 6:34 AM
Posted by Evan Labels: colitis , colitis treatment , Serovera , ulcerative colitis , ulcerative colitis treatment Fed up of ulcerative colitis controlling your life and activities? Sick from the side-effects of harsh prescription medications? The SEROVERA® Advantage is a 100% natural, potent anti-inflammatory, ulcerative colitis treatment . Those who take SEROVERA® testify to significant health improvement from their ulcerative colitis within a few weeks, while many feel UC relief in just a few days! The combination of SEROVERA® with SeroLife™ Probiotics helps to restore the levels of beneficial bacteria or naturally occurring probiotics in your digestive tract, paving the way for and creating stronger binding receptors for the AMP delivered by SEROVERA®. What is SEROVERA ®? Aloe Vera is well-known for its powerful anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties. Under the direction of Dr. Ivan Danhof, Ph.D., M.D., we have isolated and processed the healing agent in Aloe Vera, allowing us to infuse the purest, most potent medicinal value into each SEROVERA® AMP 500 capsule. Formulated for colitis sufferers, AMP (Aloe mucilaginous polysaccharides): soothes and heals bowel inflammation detoxifies the stomach and other digestive organs heals intestinal wall damage through rebalancing cells and regenerating tissue stimulates the stomach’s production of pepsin (digestion enzyme) strengthens immune system to restore intestinal health helps reduce the likeliness of future flare-ups helps to keep you in remission, longer Wednesday, December 8, 2010 Fibromyalgia Treatment 0
comments 2:05 PM
Posted by Evan Labels: Fibromyalgia , Fibromyalgia Treatment , Serovera Fibromyalgia Treatment FMS (fibromyalgia (fi-bro-my-Al-juh) syndrome) is a widespread musculoskeletal pain and fatigue disorder for which the cause is still unknown. Fibromyalgia means pain in the fibrous tissues in the body. The pain comes from the connective tissues, such as the muscles, tendons, and ligaments. FMS does not involve the joints, as does rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Most patients with fibromyalgia say that they ache all over. Their muscles may feel like they have been pulled or overworked. Sometimes the muscles twitch and at other times they burn. More women than men are afflicted with fibromyalgia, but it shows up in people of all ages. Welcome and if this is your first time here, this page is dedicated to helping you understand Fibromyalgia. Contrary to what you may find or read on the Internet, FM is a disease that CAN be controlled. SEROVERA® is a dietary supplement that has been included by many individuals as one of their standard treatment options for Fibromyalgia. Learn more about SEROVERA® AMP 500 or call 1 (877) 737-6267 --- Monday, August 9, 2010 Crohn's Diet & Nutritional Supplements 0
comments 6:38 PM
Posted by Evan Labels: crohn's disease , Crohn's Disease Diet , probiotics Suggested Approach to Crohn's Disease Diet Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD, including Crohn's Disease and ulcerative colitis, is an inflammation of the intestines. These diseases cause the intestines to form ulcers and become inflamed, scarred and easy to bleed. The most common symptoms are diarrhea, acute abdominal pain, cramping, fever and fatigue. A special diet is very important in exercising IBD management to prevent malnutrition and extreme weight loss. Nutritional Diet for Crohn's Disease & Colitis Drink lots of fluid (8 - 10 servings daily) to keep body hydrated and prevent constipation Your doctor or your registered dietitian may recommend a daily multivitamin-mineral supplement to replace lost nutrients Eat a high fiber diet when IBD is under control. Follow here for a list of high fiber foods. Some patients find cooking and steaming the vegetables more tolerable than eating them raw During a flare up, however, limit high fiber foods and follow a low fiber diet or even a low residue diet to give the bowel a rest and minimize symptoms. Avoid lactose-containing foods such as dairy if you are lactose intolerant. Otherwise, you may use lactase enzymes and lactase pretreated foods. It is very important to continue nourishing your body even during a flare-up. Try small frequent meals. Eating a high protein diet with lean meats, fish and eggs, may help relieve symptoms of IBD. Your registered dietitian may recommend pre-digested nutritional drinks (elemental diet) to give your bowel a rest and replenish lost nutrients so that your body can repair itself Limit caffeine, alcohol and sorbitol (a type of sweetener) as these may exacerbate IBD symptoms. Limit gas-producing foods such as cabbage-family vegetables (broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower and brussels sprouts), dried peas and lentils, onions and chives, peppers and carbonated drinks Reduce fat intake if part of the intestines has been surgically removed. High fat foods usually cause diarrhea and gas for this group of patients. If the ileum (part of the small intestines) has been resected, a Vitamin B12 injection may be required. Some studies found that fish oil and flax seed oil may be helpful in managing IBD. Some also suggested the role of prebiotics such as psyllium in the healing process. Furthermore, probiotics (live culture) may also be helpful in aiding recovery of the intestines. Ischemic colitis 0
comments 6:31 PM
Posted by Evan Labels: Ischemic colitis Ischemic colitis (ischaemic colitis in British English) is a medical condition in which inflammation and injury of the large intestine result from inadequate blood supply. Although uncommon in the general population, ischemic colitis occurs with greater frequency in the elderly, and is the most common form of bowel ischemia. Causes of the reduced blood flow can include changes in the systemic circulation (e.g. low blood pressure) or local factors such as constriction of blood vessels or a blood clot. In most cases, no specific cause can be identified. Ischemic colitis is usually suspected on the basis of the clinical setting, physical examination, and laboratory test results; the diagnosis can be confirmed via endoscopy or by using sigmoid or endoscopic placement of a visible light spectroscopic catheter (see Diagnosis). Ischemic colitis can span a wide spectrum of severity; most patients are treated supportively and recover fully, while a minority with very severe ischemia may develop sepsis and become critically ill. Patients with mild to moderate ischemic colitis are usually treated with IV fluids, analgesia, and bowel rest (that is, no food or water by mouth) until the symptoms resolve. Those with severe ischemia who develop complications such as sepsis, intestinal gangrene, or bowel perforation may require more aggressive interventions such as surgery and intensive care. Most patients make a full recovery; occasionally, after severe ischemia, patients may develop long-term complications such as a stricture or chronic colitis . Sunday, August 1, 2010 L-Glutamine 0
comments 8:44 AM
Posted by Evan Labels: Gastrointestinal Function , l glutamine L-Glutamine Aids Gastrointestinal Function L Glutamine Supplementation Improves Intestinal Permeability, Glutamine is the most abundant naturally occurring, non-essential amino acid in the human body and one of the few amino acids that directly cross the blood-brain barrier. In the body, it is found circulating in the blood as well as stored in the skeletal muscles. It becomes conditionally essential (requiring intake from food or supplements) in states of illness or injury. There have been several recent studies into the effects of glutamine and what properties it possesses, and, there is now a significant body of evidence that links glutamine-enriched diets with intestinal effects; aiding maintenance of gut barrier function, intestinal cell proliferation and differentiation, as well as generally reducing septic morbidity and the symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome. The reason for such "cleansing" properties is thought to stem from the fact that the intestinal extraction rate of glutamine is higher than that for other amino acids, and is therefore thought to be the most viable option when attempting to alleviate conditions relating to the gastrointestinal tract. These conditions were discovered after comparing plasma concentration within the gut between glutamine-enriched and non glutamine-enriched diets. However, even though glutamine is thought to have "cleansing" properties and effects, it is unknown to what extent glutamine has clinical benefits, due to the varied concentrations of glutamine in varieties of food. Constipation 0
comments 8:41 AM
Posted by Evan Labels: constipation , constipation treatment , high fiber Constipation treatment : Not Enough Fiber in the Diet People who eat a high-fiber diet are less likely to become constipated. The most common causes of constipation are a diet low in fiber or a diet high in fats, such as cheese, eggs, and meats. Fiber—both soluble and insoluble—is the part of fruits, vegetables, and grains that the body cannot digest. Soluble fiber dissolves easily in water and takes on a soft, gel-like texture in the intestines. Insoluble fiber passes through the intestines almost unchanged. The bulk and soft texture of fiber help prevent hard, dry stools that are difficult to pass. Americans eat an average of 5 to 14 grams of fiber daily,* which is short of the 20 to 35 grams recommended by the American Dietetic Association. Both children and adults often eat too many refined and processed foods from which the natural fiber has been removed. A low- fiber diet also plays a key role in constipation among older adults, who may lose interest in eating and choose foods that are quick to make or buy, such as fast foods, or prepared foods, both of which are usually low in fiber. Also, difficulties with chewing or swallowing may cause older people to eat soft foods that are processed and low in fiber. Not Enough Liquids Research shows that although increased fluid intake does not necessarily help relieve constipation, many people report some relief from their constipation if they drink fluids such as water and juice and avoid dehydration. Liquids add fluid to the colon and bulk to stools, making bowel movements softer and easier to pass. People who have problems with constipation should try to drink liquids every day. However, liquids that contain caffeine, such as coffee and cola drinks will worsen one’s symptoms by causing dehydration. Alcohol is another beverage that causes dehydration. It is important to drink fluids that hydrate the body, especially when consuming caffeine containing drinks or alcoholic beverages. Lack of Physical Activity A lack of physical activity can lead to constipation, although doctors do not know precisely why. For example, constipation often occurs after an accident or during an illness when one must stay in bed and cannot exercise. Lack of physical activity is thought to be one of the reasons constipation is common in older people. Older Posts Home Subscribe to: Posts (Atom) Enews & Updates Sign up to receive breaking news as well as receive other site updates! Diverticulitis FDA Consumer Updates - Warning on Body Building Products - Health Risks Posed by E-Cigarettes Categories acid reflux (3) acid reflux diet (1) allergies (1) Alli (1) Aloe Mucilaginous Polysaccharides (2) arthritis (3) arthritis treatment (3) asthma (1) BPH (1) Bromelain (1) burn fat (1) cancer (1) celiac disease (1) colitis (8) colitis treatment (2) colon (1) colon cancer (2) colon health (3) colonoscopy (2) constipation (1) constipation treatment (1) crohn's (10) crohn's disease (12) Crohn's Disease Diet (1) crohn's symptoms (1) crohn's treatment (2) diet pills (2) diverticular (1) diverticulitis (2) diverticulitis treatment (1) fat burners (3) Fibromyalgia (1) Fibromyalgia Treatment (1) Flextiva (2) Flu Virus (1) Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (1) Gastrointestinal Function (1) gerd (2) Glucosamine (1) good bacteria (1) H1N1 (1) Heartburn (1) Hepatitis C (1) high blood pressure (1) high fiber (2) IBS (1) IBS treatment (1) Inflammatory Bowel Disease (3) Irritable Bowel Syndrome (1) Ischemic colitis (1) l glutamine (1) L-Glutamine (1) Lactobacillus (1) Lactobacillus acidophilus (1) Lactose Intolerance (1) MSM (1) Obesity (1) probiotic (2) probiotics (4) Prostate (1) prostatic hyperplasia (1) rectyal cancer (1) rheumatoid arthritis (2) Serovera (3) Serovera Australia (1) Synephrine (1) Thermogenic fat burners (2) ulcerative colitis (9) ulcerative colitis treatment (4) vitamin D (1) weight loss (1) Xenical (1) Archives ▼ 2012 (1) ▼ January (1) L-Glutamine and gastrointestinal function ► 2011 (1) ► January (1) Fed up of ulcerative colitis controlling your life... ► 2010 (17) ► December (1) Fibromyalgia Treatment ► August (4) Crohn's Diet & Nutritional Supplements Ischemic colitis L-Glutamine Constipation ► July (2) Thermogenic fat burners and Synephrine Crohn's Colitis in Australia ► May (4) IBD May Raise Risk of Pancreatic Cancer People Wit... Change The Way You Move. Lactobacillus acidophilus Blood test to tailor arthritis treatment ► April (2) Irritable Bowel Syndrome Crohn's Symptoms ► March (3) What are the complications of Crohn’s disease? Vitamin D might fight Crohn's disease What is the treatment for ulcerative colitis? ► January (1) Cannabis Hope for Inflammatory Bowel Disease ► 2009 (26) ► December (6) People on Immunosuppressive Therapies May Be More ... Colitis disease Change The Way You Move - Arthritis Diverticulitis treatment Treatment of Colitis Avoid Swimming Pools if You Have Allergies or Asth... ► November (8) Crohn's treatment Colonoscopy What causes GERD or Acid Reflux? Burn Fat Wall Street Journal Gives BIG Thumbs Up to Good Ba... What is GERD or Acid Reflux What are the symptoms of ulcerative colitis? Crohn’s Disease ► October (6) New Study: Probiotic Strain Boosts Immune Response... Lactose Intolerance Thermogenic fat burners What is celiac disease? What I need to know about Hepatitis C Heartburn, Gastroesophageal Reflux (GER), and Gast... ► September (6) Obesity could become top cancer cause Study: Low Vitamin D Raises Blood Pressure in Wome... Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: A Common Part of Agi... Colon Cancer How are diverticular disease and diverticulitis di... Is That Right? Alli Weight-Loss Drug is Safe Serovera Manapol digestacure AMP Molo truck repair miami fat burner fat burners ulcerative colitis treatment Digestaqure aloeelite truck miami Health in Australia diverticulitis diet diverticulitis treatment diverticulosis ulcerative colitis treatment crohn's disease treatment colitis treatment crohn's treatment ulcerative colitis crohn's disease crohn's colitis diet colitis treatment acid reflux diet probiotics diverticulosis digestacure aloeelite Reward Probiotics Copyright 2009 All Rights Reserved Revolution Two Church theme by Brian Gardne