Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Can honey heal wounds? AnyQA.com Any Health Questions and Answers WebSite Can honey heal wounds? I know that honey can exterminate bacterias but can also heal wounds? can prevent scars? Answers: I not really know. You can search for "Honey in Healing" and get some research. Here Mother Earth News; http://www.motherearthnews.com/natural-h... But, I will say it draw flies and they infect the wound. LOL! I know that the egyptians used it to cure battle wounds Yes it can.of course not magically in 5 seconds, but yes. If you want to deal with the wound and stop a scar, crack and egg and peel som of the skin off the shell. Place the skin on the wound and you will have less chance of having a bad scar. The fact that honey can help wounds to heal is something that was known to the Ancient Egyptians several thousand years ago. And in the last two world wars poultices with honey were used to assist the healing process in soldiers' wounds. However, the rise of the new antibiotics replaced this household remedy. 'In hospitals today we are faced with germs which are resistant to almost all the current anti-biotics,' Dr. Arne Simon explains. 'As a result, the medical use of honey is becoming attractive again for the treatment of wounds.' Results of a three year clinical trial at the University Teaching Hospital in Calabar, Nigeria, showed that unprocessed honey can heal wounds when more modern dressings and antibiotic treatments fail. In 59 patients treated for wounds and external ulcers, honey was effective in all but one case. Topical applications kept sterile wounds sterile until they had time to heal, while infected wounds became sterile within a week. Honey was also shown to remove dead tissue from persistent wounds, helping some patients avoid skin grafts or amputations. "Honey provides a moist healing environment yet prevents bacterial growth even when wounds are heavily infected," notes Dr. Peter Molan of the Honey Research Unit at the University of Waikato, New Zealand. "It is a very effective means of quickly rendering heavily infected wounds sterile, without the side effects of antibiotics, and it is even effective against antibiotic resistant strains of bacteria." The health and medicine information post by website user , AnyQA.com not guarantee correctness , is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment for any medical conditions. More Related Questions and Answers ... Does Rooibos Tea or Green Tea help with recovery from cataract surgery ? Testosterone - Question / treatment? WHAT'S THE RECIPE, W/suregell, to flush, toxins & drugs, for a CLEAN-DRUG-TEST?THANX!!? Good hangover cure? Is there a confidence pill available? Reiki distance treatment? Has anyone ever used a Rock Salt lamp? Colon cleanse? What was the muscle supplement on Janice Dickinson show? Why isn't there more public information on homeopathy? Topic Home Alternative Medicine Dental Diet Fitness Diseases Conditions General Health Care Men's Health Mental Health Other Women's Hea