<http://www.ready4achange.com/blog/?p=608>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Correlation between Depression and Obesity Home About Our Doctor How to Reach Monterrey Dieting – Eating – Cooking Subscribe Correlation between Depression and Obesity by Ruth Rosa Lenox on August 5, 2011 Correlation between Depression and Obesity At a certain point in your life, have you ever felt being unhappy and miserable? That moment when you feel like you are at your lowest point and nothing is going right. Well, frankly speaking, you are suffering from what we call depression. Depression refers to a mental state in which you are sad and you feel like you don’t enjoy anything that you do because you feel unpleasant or you are always not in the mood. This kind of mental state or illness is usually felt by people who are what we call obese. Obesity is a medical condition by which a person suffers excessive or abnormal fat accumulation that may bring adverse effect to that person’s health. In other words, obesity is having too much body fat and may put the person’s health into risk. Based on recent studies, the issues about depression and obesity remain to be a major topic. The question becomes does obesity cause depression or is depression a result of obesity. One thing is certain, each one affects the other. Where it is a known fact that there is a connection between obesity and depression, it is still unresolved on which condition comes first. An obese person is more likely to feel depressed for reasons such as being uncomfortable with their physical appearance and afraid of being bullied especially for those in the adolescent stage. Obese persons have the tendency to lose confidence and become more sensitive and vulnerable. Depressed people tend to isolate themselves from others and are more comfortable being alone.  They find comfort by eating and the craving for food is much higher than the usual. For some obese people, foods provide emotional comfort.  When you are depressed there is not much motivation in you, you don’t have the energy to participate in activities and the tendency is to just become sedentary. This lack of physical activity contributes to weight gain; and once your body get used to poor eating habits and sedentary life style, you will not notice you are already considered obese. Obesity and depression are a serious psychological illness and considered a primary health concern and must be given extra attention. Depression is usually treated by way of therapy and counselling. But with the case of obesity, there are a lot of ways to lose weight and shed off those extra pounds.  Natural weight loss methods that can be used such as various fitness programs and diet programs fail 98% of the time.   Only 2% manage to lose more than 20 pounds and keep it off for 5 years.  Most often than not, natural weight loss methods work best for those people slightly overweight not for the obese. The difference between overweight and obese is that overweight is generally a common condition and can be treated by the usual diet and exercise while obese is a medical condition usually cause by genetics and inability to control diet. Obesity responds best surgical methods of restriction and reduction. Speaking of weight loss by means of surgical method, there are several different surgical weight loss methods available and one of the most successful surgical procedures is the vertical sleeve gastrectomy surgery . This is a weight loss procedure by which the size of the stomach is reduced through removal of a portion of the stomach. This method has indicated excellent long term results based on recent studies. Obesity and depression are two interchangeable conditions and is recommended that people who are obese and at the same time suffering from depression must be treated at the same time. Share and Enjoy: Related posts: Obesity Is a Disease: Why Obesity is a Diesease When To Go In For Surgery To Cure Obesity Options For Curing Obesity Obesity Has Negative Impact on Sexual Health, Study Shows Growing Issues on Obesity Tagged as: depression , obesity Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: Coronary Artery Disease Statistics, Facts Next post: Obesity and Weight Loss Surgery in the Teenage Population Pages About Ready4aChange.com Hints for Food Preparation, Cooking, and Eating How to Reach Monterrey Our Doctor – Ready4aChange’s Bariatric Surgeons Categories Gastric Bypass General Lap band Surgery Lapband Surgery Obesity News Plastic Surgery Recipe Safety In Mexico Sleeve Gastrectomy weight loss surgery Weight Loss Surgery Cost Weight Loss Surgery Diet Weight Loss Tips Archives April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 Sign Up Form Name: * Phone: Email: * * is required Why Diets Fail? Download our White Paper Today! Articles from this blog can be picked up for publication on your site for FREE However it is mandatory to acknowledge the author with the link below Mexico Weight Loss Surgery Tags addiction adjustable gastric band surgery affordable weight loss surgery bariatric diet bariatric surgeon bariatric surgery benefits BMI cancer candidacy carnival of weight loss health fitness depression diabetes fast food fitness Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Sleeve Surgery health Lap band Surgery Lapband Surgery medical tourism Mexico Mexico city obesity overweight plastic surgery post lap band surgery revision surgery Safe Mexico Surgery Safety In Mexico Sexual Health Sleeve Gastrectomy type 2 diabetes weight discrimination weight loss Weight Loss In Mexico weight loss recipe weight loss solutions weight loss surgery Weight Loss Surgery Cost weight loss surgery success Weight Loss Tips weight reduction weight reduction program Weight Loss Surgery Forums Copyright © 2008–2012 Gastric Bypass General Lap band Surgery Lapband Surgery Obesity News Plastic Surgery Recipe Safety In Mexico Sleeve Gastrectomy weight loss surgery Weight Loss Surgery Co