
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 13:13:57 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Remedies to Treat Epilepsy About Earth Clinic Contact Us Who We Are What People Say Website Help Donate Marketplace Publications T-shirts Healers Healers Database Recommended Books Prayer & Meditation Submit Post Submit Feedback Guidelines & Tips Register Signup Help Newsletter Signup Login Email: Password: Not registered? Forgot Password? Folk Remedies and Holistic Cures - EARTHCLINIC.COM Search: Highlight search terms Web Earth Clinic REMEDIES AILMENTS SUPPLEMENTS PETS LATEST POSTS Table of Contents QUESTIONS & ANSWERS TED'S REMEDIES AVOID ARTIFICAL SWEETENERS, TAKE NATURAL SUGARS, COCONUT OIL COCONUT OIL DIET DIETARY RECOMMENDATIONS EDGAR CAYCE REMEDIES ELIMINATE WHEAT, B VITAMINS EPSOM SALTS GENERAL FEEDBACK GLUTAMIC AND ASPARTIC ACID GLUTEN AND CASEIN FREE DIET LEARN TO STAY CALM MINI-SEIZURES NATURAL REMEDIES REMEDIES NEEDED 1 2 Remedies to Treat Epilepsy Updated: 02/14/2012 "Epilepsy is a common chronic neurological disorder that is characterized by recurrent unprovoked seizures. These seizures are transient signs and/or symptoms due to abnormal, excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain. About 50 million people worldwide have epilepsy at any one time. Epilepsy is usually controlled, but not cured, with medication, although surgery may be considered in difficult cases. Not all epilepsy syndromes are lifelong -- some forms are confined to particular stages of childhood. Epilepsy should not be understood as a single disorder, but rather as a group of syndromes with vastly divergent symptoms but all involving episodic abnormal electrical activity in the brain." ( Wikipedia ) DISCLAIMER Our readers offer information and opinions on Earth Clinic, not as a substitute for professional medical prevention, diagnosis, or treatment. Please consult with your physician, pharmacist, or health care provider before taking any home remedies or supplements or following any treatment suggested by anyone on this site. Only your health care provider, personal physician, or pharmacist can provide you with advice on what is safe and effective for your unique needs or diagnose your particular medical history. TED'S REMEDIES Ted from Bangkok, Thailand writes: "I had a feedback of a child that had monthly epileptic seizures. The remedy for that one for a child anyway was 1/4 teaspoon of citric acid and 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda, and some magnesium citrate supplements,which was about 100-150 mg. A foundation exists because a disease exists, if there were no disease, a foundation would not exist and people would be out of a job. Hence, the system perpetuates the disease. An epileptic seizures at least on my observations were at least a couple things (but more) as the cause that can be considered in a home remedy: A heavy metal toxicity and hence magnesium reduces this problem. An alkalization increases oxygen and the brain can heal itself. A lecithin supplements for a child, for example might be 1/2 tablespoon a day. The lecithin promotes myelin sheath. Both the myelin sheaths if insufficient the brain short circuits as there is no insulation to protect electrical neural travelling. The lecithin promotes myelin sheaths. Heavy metals are electrically conductive and causes the brain to short circuit. I have seen some children with epileptic seizures where the CAT scans show as white dots (metals absorbs the radiation so they appear white) on the brain. Those were the heavy metals that deposits. Oh yes, and one more thing, vitamin C sodium ascorbate vitamin C is important as the brain has large stores of them necessary to protect against oxidants. A 250 mg dose will usually help too." Replies 12/28/2010: Luis Miguel from Arvada, Colorado, USA replies: "I am from Lima, Peru, South America and currently live in Colorado, USA. Currently I am sixty (60) years old and have suffered epilepsy (Version: Grand Mal) since I was fifteen (15) years to sixty years, ie along forty-five (45) years I carry a cross named Epilepsy. Almost all my life I have taken tablets that controlled epilepsy Tegretol, Phenytoin sodium, Mysoline, Epamin, etc. But that does not serve me. Here in USA, I knew the Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate), and this will work. My recipe is: ¼ tea spoon in a glass of water before going to sleep. FROM A YEAR AGO I DID NOT TAKE ANY TABLETS, AND I DO NOT HAVE ANY MORE SEIZURES. THANK YOU MY FATHER WHO IS IN HEAVEN. God Bless America, this Baking Soda and this lovely website." 04/24/2011: Amy from Houston, Tx replies: "Hi Ted, My mother started getting epileptic seizures when she was 40. She is now 51 and for a moment there, we thought she was cured (it went away for a couple of years) but has now returned. She refuses to take her meds because of the side effects, but I also need my sleep since her attacts seem to be nocturnal. I really hate to see her go through this. She thinks it has someting to do with food, but there's always diffrent ones she complains about. My question is, do you think the epsom salt/orange juice or the baking soda/lemon juice is a option for my mom? Can I try both? or is that too much? I have her taking orange juice/epsom salt, lecithin 1120 mg, magnesium complex 200 mg, and B Complex. Anything else you suggest? Are the amounts ok? Thank you so much for your help, I would really like my mom to get better somehow since her meds are out of the question. Thank you..." 01/30/2012: Erika from Middletown, Ct replies: "I am writing to the person who posted Ted's Remedies. I really like your advice and I was hoping to speak to you more about your advice. My daughter suffers from seizures and they have been getting worse. Please if you can call me at 860-316-5080 or email me at EDeRaffaele(at)gmail.com. I have many questions and I really believe you can help my daughter. What you're saying makes so much sense. I really hate the way the USA treats their patients with all different kinds of Medication. I really want to go about this the most natural way possible. Thank you so much." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top AVOID ARTIFICAL SWEETENERS, TAKE NATURAL SUGARS, COCONUT OIL Ratings: 2 YEA [ YEA ]  01/27/2008: Maureen from Maine, USA writes: "re: Seizure control. I realized that aspsrtame brought on seizures years ago...on my own. The doctor didn't see it. Why is it not of public knowledge? Why do they not put this on the yogurts or drinks? Why does aspartame exist? It doesn't even taste good! And our body doesn't even know what to do with that sugar!! Another sugar to avoid is sucralose. I have noticed that works against me too, often bringing on a seizure. It would be nice if a GOOD sugar, such as stevia, were of normal regime in american foods and drinks. It's ok to dream! Another good thing to include in the diet to avoid those seizures is coconut oil or coconut milk! The list of benefits is priceless!" Replies [ YEA ]  05/27/2009: London  from Sandusky, Ohio replies: "Hi, yes, you are right, artificial sweeteners certainly causes seizures. My boyfriend has had three, all in a five year period, and all of them related to his excessive intake of energy drinks, tablets, and artificially sweetened drinks. He works hard at his job, and he believes he cannot function without stimulants. Since he has related the seizures to these substances, he has reduced and cut down ALOT. But he still drinks at least one energy drink every other day, and diet items every once in a while. I've warned him." 09/07/2011: Sharon from Rio Rancho, New Mexico replies: "@ Maureen- I used to drink a LOT of sodas, but I never had a seizure from them. But my naturopathic doctor has told me that he would rather I had regular sugar than any sugar substitutes. @ London- As I was telling Maureen, I used to drink a LOT of sodas. Since seeing this naturopathic doctor, I have not had any, with only a little lemonade or anything else but water. I would hardly drink water before, now I am either drinking it, natural juices, or milk (milk isn't considered a food according to my diet so I can drink it to my heart's content). Anyway, the doctor told me that reverse osmosis or distilled water was best (usually this is the kind without any bad taste). You can add lemon or lime to it if you need flavor (from a real lemon or lime, not the concentrates you can get at the store). Another thing I was told but haven't tried yet is baking soda - adding a teaspoon of baking soda to a gallon of water will ph balance the water and give more benefits. I am drinking more water, on a harmonious food diet (more oganic food to cut MSG and other excitotoxins found in processed foods, not eating protiens and starches together) and I feel a heck of a lot better than I did before - more energy and less headaches are just a few of the benefits, and now, I don't even miss the sodas." 11/14/2011: Ray from Fort  Worth, Texas replies: "I heard that Pfizer had added aspartame to the seziure drug dilantin when they changed the look of the capsule in 2007. Aspartame has been known to cause seziures in healthy people who have no history of epilepsy. Why would Pfizer add aspartame to a drug that controls seziures?" 01/27/2012: Still Learning... from Phoenix, Az, Usa replies: "To get a built in"return customer" program - of course! Drug companies are in a serious business, and need 'lifetime loyal customers". Do you ever actually listen to list of side-effects during TV commercials? "Occasional death, etc"... while happy people twinkle on screen." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top COCONUT OIL Ratings: 2 YEA 1 BETTER BUT NOT CURED [ YEA ]  10/16/2010: Faithinhealing from Forest Park, Ohio writes: "Remedy to Treat Epilepsy... I read about a Ketogenic diet that was helping children with seizures control them! I tried it for a while but it was too difficult.. Although I had success... So instead I just started using 4 Tablespoons of coconut oil every day. It worked... I HAVE NOT HAD A SEIZURE IN THREE YEARS... Knock on wood! Please try it and get off the drugs today... Natural cures are the KEY!!! " Replies 08/02/2011: Crissy  from Houston, Texas, Usa replies: "Hi do you think that may work on my four year old? He had a seizure May of 2010, they found a tumor in his brain. They removed it and it was a benign tumor Thank God! Now they've had him on anti seizure meds since then. He's acting fine but I have noticed if we keep him off the meds for some days he wakes up at night acting weird. Which I believe to be mini seizures. Thanks for any help." 09/07/2011: Sharon from Rio Rancho, New Mexico replies: "@ Faithinhealing I'm sure four tablespoons wouldn't hurt you any, in fact, I'm sure its added benefit, but I was told three tablespoons a day of virgin or extra virgin coconut oil, not refined. @ Crissy I would talk to Dr. Michael James at www.drugfreehelp.com or another naturopathic doctor in your area. What Dr. James told me was that a lot of things in processed foods can cause seizures, like MSG and other excitotoxins. MSG is even hidden in foods under other names. What coconut oil does is help rebuild the sheaths around the nerves. I am sure it could help your son." 11/16/2011: Joe from Fort Worth, Tx replies: "Doesn't coconut oil have a lot of saturated fat? Saturated fat is one of the "bad fat"." [ YEA ]  01/26/2012: Martin from Pollok, Tx replies: "Coconut oil is among one of the best fats known to man and is extremely good for you and all that says it's not, does no good is not looking out for you." [ BETTER BUT NOT CURED ]  02/03/2012: Harsha  from Bangalore, India replies: "Yes, after reading the great effects of coconut oil on a Alzheimer affected person, I started it in the new year. In a month I am seeing gradual results for my mild and frequent seizures." 02/05/2012: Julia from Colchester, Vermont replies: "Yes, common misconception about saturated fats, I did some research and found that the FDA kind of led America to believe that all saturated fats caused heart problems, untrue (there wasn't quite any solid research to back up those claims). Coconut oil is extremely good for you. I've just received an order I placed and am hoping it might help with my epilepsy and perhaps my memory which has been diagnosed on the 'lower end of normal'." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top DIET 09/07/2011: Sharon from Rio Rancho, New Mexico writes: "Amy, I had a Grand Mal seizure when I was 6, and to mine or my family's knowledge have not had another, though upon seeing a neurologist to back day the GBS I had at age 3, was told that I still had seizures. I do not trust this neurologist very much because he's been focused on sleep studies and asking me about the CPAP machine he gave me rather than anything else, but I understand your mother's concern that is has to do with food, and not wanting to take meds. I went to see a naturopathic doctor after my second appointment with this neurologist. The doctor I went to see was Dr. Michael James. Dr. James shared with me information about the foods we eat. I already knew that I couldn't have MSG because it would give me migraines. What I didn't know is that MSG is often hidden under other names so unless you know what you're looking for, you could still be eating it. MSG is known as an excitotoxin, and there are other excitotoxins in food besides MSG. These excitotoxins can cause seizures. Dr. James put me on a new diet and I feel LOTS better. This diet was based on how foods interact with each other in digestion. For example, there are protiens, starches, and bace foods (oils, raw nuts, vegetables). In this diet, you can mix the bace with the protiens, or the starches, but you can't mix protiens and starches because it can take up to 24 hours to digest if you do. You can have Taco Bell crunchy tacos, or burritos with no cheese, but with lettuce and tomato, or you can have KFG grilled chicken with vegetables and save your buscuit for later - these are examples of what I've done. I have gone to eating organic foods, and buying sprouted wheat bread so I can have sandwiches. We even bought a grain mill to make our own sprouted flour or nut butters rather than buying the name brands at the store. It's a bit more expensive, yes, but it works. Dr. James also has me on a natural vitamin, mineral and herbal regime and I am feeling SO much better now. My energy is up for the most part, which it wasn't before, I don't have as much indigestion, as many headaches and that's just a few of the improvements I've noticed. I think your mom has the right idea that it's in the food. I highly recommend speaking with Dr. James or finding a naturopathic doctor - or maybe even a regular western doctor - since insurance doesn't cover natural medicines - that will listen to your mom and work with her rather than against her." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top DIETARY RECOMMENDATIONS Ratings: 1 YEA [ YEA ]  08/28/2008: Tom from Austin, Texas writes: "my wife suffered seizures before we were married and has now been seizure free for 13 years of marriage. well she did stop the aspertame but I can't say if that is what made the difference as she stopped eating a ton of other junk as well. I follow an 85% raw fruits and veggies diet with no refined sugars or carbs and she just started to eat with me reluctantly at first and wala. if this story seems hard to believe just think, I left out the long list of chronic illness that went away from her body and mine like bad dreams. check out the haleluya diet." Replies 09/15/2010: Don from Edmonton, Canada replies: "I am a grand mal epileptic due to head injury. I know how he feels I am constantly searching for an energy drink that does not do more damage than I started but I have yet to find anything so I wont work night shift anymore and I drink water and pop. Water sucks and its bland but it works. Dilatation is a good mix but not a cure. Good luck D.A." 12/28/2010: Patricia from San Jose, Ca replies: "I reccommend trying Maca, a traditional Peruvian natural stimulant. Made from powdered root with no additives whatsoever. You simply mix/dissolve it in water. It gives an almost immediate energy boost without the nasty side effects." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top EDGAR CAYCE REMEDIES Ratings: 1 YEA [ YEA ]  02/22/2009: Linda from Virginia Beach, Virginia writes: "epilepsy healed with the edgar cayce remedies: It's my daughter's eight-year anniversary of being seizure-free. Here is her story: http://www.cayce.com/HealingEpilepsyByLindaCaputi.htm Hope it can help someone else too!" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top ELIMINATE WHEAT, B VITAMINS 11/21/2011: Maisie from Portland, Or writes: "I recently brought my son to Portland Family Homeopathy in Portland, Oregon. He's had seizures for the whole first year of his life. Sometimes hundreds at a time. We were given a pretty bad diagnosis from a neurologist who wanted to put him on all sorts of meds. I asked her if there had ever been research about the long term developmental side effects of giving these meds to babies... She said no. So we chose to try to find other treatment options. A friend of mine had recommended that I try Portland Family Homeopathy and so I did. We went and were given some really basic dietary information about what is good and bad for kids with seizures. Since we've cut out wheat and been giving him vitamin B supplements daily, he has been seizure free for 6 months now. Sometimes the answer is so simple." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top EPSOM SALTS Ratings: 4 YEA [ YEA ]  11/26/2011: Jtdds from Rochester, Ny writes: "I think I'm on to something regarding magnesium for seizure control. Before you spend a fortune like I did on Liquid magnesium, transdermal magnesium and Magnesium oxide supplements, try this... Buy a small quantity of Epsom Salt from the drugstore. In a coffee mug, crush it into a very, very fine powder. Stir 1/2 to one teaspoon of the powder into a small sip of orange juice, open your mouth wide and swallow, being careful not to leave any magnesium granules at the bottom of the glass. My seizures are cured. DO NOT STOP TAKING YOUR SEIZURE MEDICATION UNTIL YOU HAVE DONE THIS SUCCESSFULLY FOR AT LEAST ONE YEAR AND EVEN THEN TAPER OFF OF IT SLOWLY WITH YOUR PHYSICIAN'S ADVICE!" Replies 11/27/2011: Seline from Mtl, Qc replies: "Hi, jtdds, How long have you been able to control epilepsy by Epsom salt?" 12/06/2011: Jaycee from Kuwait City, Kuwait replies: "Hi! Jttds, My daughter suffers from Epilepsy since 14 years which started at the age of 13. We tried all medications since then but no success. Since two years we started with Homoeopathy there are a few changes to her behaviour but she still has seizures. Now the seizures are only in the night when she is about to fall asleep. Could Epsom salt be tried on her? Of course I will not stop giving her her daily Homeo dosages. Please advise. I read a lot about Epsom Salt and was very much impressed. Would appreciate your response at my email. Thank you and God bless. Jaycee" 12/06/2011: Debbie from Melbourne, Australia  replies: "Jaycee, magnesium chloride flakes in the bath is better than epson salts as the effects last longer in the body. Epson salts is okay but you would need more. You could also make magnesium oil (50/50 magnesium chloride flakes and water) and spray on her body. If you can get your daughter to the sea a few times a week that would also be good. It is a natural concentrated source of magnesiusm. Paddling/walking/bathing in the water for about 30 minutes would be good." 12/07/2011: Jaycee from Kuwait City, Kuwait replies: "Hi! Debbie, Thank you very much for your response. Where can I get Magnesium Chloride flakes? Is it available in the Pharmacy/Drugstore? Also to make magnesium oil, do I need to add any oil to 50/50 magnesium chloride flakes and water or does magnesium chloride lets out oil. Going to the sea is very convenient all the time in Kuwait bcoz of the extreme climate conditions, but we can do so whenever possible. Thank you very much for your support. God bless, Jaycee" 12/07/2011: Debbie from Melbourne, Australia  replies: "Hi Jaycee, you would have to do an internet search to see if it is available in stores over there. I had to buy some over the internet where I am as they only sell pre made magnesium oil in small bottles not the magnesium chloride flakes. You can make your own and it is a lot cheaper if you do this. In the meantime you can always use epson salts but just bathe more often in them. You make the magnesium oil with 50% magnesium chloride flakes and 50% water. It is called an oil but is not really an oil. When it dries it is very powdery and some people wash off after say 30 minutes. A good website to read all about it is magnesiumforlife. com - also youtube is good to do a search for magnesium oil for more info." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 03/01/2011: Maddy from Vallejo, California writes: "My grandson started to get seizeres at around 8 months. Difficult birth umbilical cord twice around his neck. Was in hospital for 7 wks. At about 8 months he started to have seizures. Arms jerk out in front, eyes roll back over and over. Lasting 3-10 mins. Complete exaustion afterward and sleep. They put him on meds. That didn't work and finally gave him a 3 week course of steroids which stopped them and kept him on some meds. I don't know the name of. For the last approx. 2 1/2 mos. They have weened him off the drug. He's 2 1/2 years at present. He just had a seizere in the middle of the night 3 days ago. Hasn't had another. I think from what I've read here that epson salts may work. What would be the correct dosage? He's height and weight appropriate for his age. Or if you have any other ideas we would appriciate anything you could suggest. Madison Brown" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 10/19/2010: Tammie from Midland, Tx writes: "My father has a had severe night time seizures (not often) for a few years now that have become more frequent lately, we have gone to a neurologists and he is now on anti seizure medicine, Keppra - which he has had a severe reaction to including depression, suicidal thoughts and behavioral changes- needless to say they are changing his medication - now to Valproic Acid which we are concerned about as well. We would love to go with a natural remedy and get him off of all of these horrible medications. He is now also on Xanax which is making him act a little nuts, just trying to control his mood while weaning him off Keppra. This behavior is way out of the ordinary for him, he is normally a happy, smart, strong hard working man. He is now emotional, and miserable. I have read some amazing stuff about epsom salts and other remedies but there is a lot to narrow down in a hurry. We are looking for a list and amounts of "must haves" for seizure treatment, in hopes of getting him off of all this horrible stuff quickly and as easily as possible. He has been on these anti-seizure meds for such a short period of time we hope to transition off of the quickly if possible. Right now he says he would rather live with seizures and forget the medications. Oh just FYI, he is a welder and has been exposed to heavy metals like manganese since the age of 13. Thanks for your help and information." Replies 10/21/2010: Steven Perez from Spring Branch, Tx replies: "You need to find someone experience enough to help you detox your dad. There are many things today that can cause individuals to have seizures. Besides detox, diet and proper hydration with no doubt improve your dads situation. I know from personal experience. If you can't find anyone to help you in your area, Please send me an email an I maybe be able to point you in the right direction. Steve" 04/21/2011: Akw from Rome, Italy replies: "I am interested in Stephen Perez's comments to the gentleman taking keppra and depakin (sodium valproate) and wanting to get off them. Thankyou." 04/23/2011: Veronica  from San Antonio , Tx replies: "Question for Steve... I live in San Antonio and I have a 3 yr old who's been on epileptic medicine for 2 yrs. He's been through 4 surgeries and is not seizure free. We're trying to find the right medicine and right dosage for him. I hate the way the medicines make him feel. I've been wanting to treat him the holistic way but I'm not sure how to or what to give him?? If you can refer a holistic doctor to me I would greatly appreciate it. He has simple complex seizures, he also had a tumor removed (which we though was causing them), but he's still having seizures." 04/24/2011: Francisca  from Michelbach-le-bas, Alsace, France replies: "Veronica, it would be a good idea if you read Linus Pauling's book "How to live longer and feel better". I could tell you what he says but it is maybe better to get the whole picture. He talks about children who had seizures and how they were treated with vitamins and minerals. A very interesting book by one of the greatest minds of the 20th century. When I finish I will post a review here. I hope this will help your son without the side effects." 04/24/2011: Debbie from Melbourne, Australia replies: "Veronica, sorry to hear about your little boy. Please read the attached article. It is about someone recently diagnosed with epilepsy. They found out that she was hugely deficient in magnesium and something simple as magnesium (in large doses) was enough to get her off her medication. Also the article says that anti-epileptic medication can deplete your vitamin E stores. Has your son had blood tests for his magnesium levels? I would also now check his vitamin E levels. You could also bathe him in epson salts (magesium). Hope this is of some help. http://www.doctoryourself.com/epilepsy.html " 05/03/2011: Danh from Prague, Czech Rep replies: "Hi all. I'm sorry for people with unsuccesful brain surgery. If I can advise, read the book Patricia A. Murphy "Treating Epilepsy Naturally". She cured herself from epi GMs with diet, brain control. Patricia, thank You for this book, you're smart and skilful. DanH" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top [ YEA ]  08/28/2010: Jualsy  from Torrevieja, Alicante. Spain writes: "Epilepsy has been around for a long time and it has interferred with the quality of life for a lot of people. The medication that is recommended may stop the fits, but the side effects can be dismal, and the epilepsy continues and the medication recommended has to be increased. After doing research on the subject, because I had a good friend who was on the strongest medication and was STILL having grand mal fits every day, I was impressed enough to ask her to trust me to try something. The solution is to take magnesium in the form of Epsom Salts. Half a teaspoon in orange juice every morning. From the first dose her fits stopped. She ceased taking the medication and her quality of life was restored, after suffering for over 12 years. I advertised in the paper for more poeple with the complaint and visited them at home and recommended the Epsom Salts. In EVERY case it worked. My chemist refused to sell Epsom Salts to me any more as he said I didn't know better than the doctors, but there were many more places to buy it!! I contacted the Epilepsy Sopciety and offered to give a talk at their meetings..... But they didn't want to know!! I can recommend it with confidence........ Half a teaspoon of Epsom Salts in some orange juice...Try it!! Makechanges@gmail.com " Replies 08/28/2010: Jualsy from Torrevieja, Alicante,  Spain  replies: "It doesn't matter when you take it. The results will build up and you will see the difference almost immediately." 01/01/2011: Trish from Eureka, California replies: "I just had another seizure today (Happy New Year's.. ) and I am so tired of this. I've tried all the meds they could think of with a myriad of side effects and the taste of poison forever on my tongue. So I went searching the internet and found this very informative site. I plan on trying the epsom salt tomorrow, then other rememdies that speak to me. Thank you so much of all the wealth of information. You all seem to be a caring community! Keep it up. See you again, Trish" 03/05/2011: Ahmed from Niles, Il replies: "I have 9 years old son suffering from nocturnal seizures since 3 months old. His seizures started after taking his first vaccination shot. We tried many medication for 3 years and nothing really worked. Then we started giving him herbal (ayurvedic) medicine which helped to control but did not completely stopped them. His EEG results showed improvement but at least we were happy as their were no side affects. We gave him for 3 years then stopped as it did not stopped completely. After one year without any medication I found this link and read everyone comments. I have started epsom salt in orange juice. Last night when he got up from the deep sleep he was just staring at us but did not had any seizure or convulsion. I was really happy with this first step. I am going to continue this formula and hope and pray to God it helps him out. And I hope it helps to improve his speech. I pray for all of those who are going through pain. I am just worried how long should we use this epsom salt and are their any side affects on long term usage." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 05/28/2010: Dean from Fort Collins, Co writes: "Hi, I have read about the epsom salt helping seizures on this website. It says to take half of a teaspoon in orange juice every morning. My seizures are nocturnal and was wondering if it would be better to take the epsom salt with orange juice before bed or if I should take it in the morning? Thanx" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 04/07/2009: Lgali from Nepean, ON, Canada writes: "epsom salts and seizure: could you please advise me more about use of epsom salts for my 13 old girl?" Replies 04/07/2009: Joyce from Joelton, Tn replies: "Hello, Sorry your 13 year old has seizure problems. If she is a normal sized l3 year old dosages would be the same as for adults, and since the recommended laxative dosage for epsom salts (magnesium sulfate) is 1 to 2 tsps I would try giving her 1/2 tsp. morning & bedtime. Another form of magnesium is magnesium oxide which you can buy tablets of it combined with vitamin B6 (Beelith tablets) and give her l morning & bedtime. Since magnesium probably works to combat seizures by competing with monosodium glutamate (MSG) for sites in the brain, I suggest you google "excitotoxins" to find a list of names they hide MSG under in the ingredients lists of foods. Another excitotoxin you need to  eliminate is aspartame (NutraSweet or Equal). When reading those ingredients lists, be especially alert for any "hydrolyzed plant (corn, soy, pea, etc) protein as it contains both MSG and aspartame." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 10/25/2008: Catherine from Wellington, New Zealand writes: "My journey into nutrition started in the 70's with Adelle Davis' books. She recommended magnesium (epsom salts) for Epilepsy. I have told this to various people over the years and offered them the books to read, amazingly they didn't want to do the research, preferring the allopathic methods of treatment. Ms Davis was also a strong proponent of folic acid to prevent spina biffida! This has only recently been taken seriously..but her evidence could have saved much untold misery for unfortunate families during these intervening years. In one of her books Ms Davis referred to another nutritionist from the 40's who opined that unless magnesium levels in the diet were improved, within a generation we would't be able to tell from the backview the difference between boys and girls!!! Well girls used to have waists (18" to 22") and boys always had physiques, maybe lack of magnesium affects the hormones somehow." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top [ YEA ]  11/15/2007: maureen roy from Maine, U.S.A writes: "I had to post something here because a couple of months ago I saw a post from someone who said, "Anyone who has seizures, something that has worked well to control or rid people's seizures is epsom salt." ....their words were something to that effect. Well, that got me intrigued and excited. I had been looking for ways to get off my meds for years. I have been reading books and looking...everywhere on the net for...something! And that post got me started. Well, I now have a blog about my story - I have been off my meds for more than a month and it has now been almost a month since I have had a seizure. That is just amazing and has been unheard of for me for the past 18 years! Now, I am not a doctor and I am not saying this is what EVERYONE should do. We are all different. But, this MAY help people who have been looking for answers, help, guidance on what could work for them in the right direction. When you click here, start reading from the bottom up. From Nov. 12th until recent. http://momosremedies.blogspot.com/ " Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top [ YEA ]  10/14/2007: Violet from Torrevieja, Spain writes: "Epsom Salts is a cure for Epilepsy. I have recommended it to various people and given a talk about it in a local clinic in London...it works!! Even for grand mal fits and for young and old alike. Half a teaspoonful in orange juice each morning, and the fits will stop. I approached the Epilepsy Society about this, but they don't want to know!!! My grand daughter has started taking it, when all else failed and she hasn't had fits since." Replies 11/16/2007: Joyce from Joelton, Tn replies: "To Maureen Roy(11/15/07) and Violet (10/14/07) from Tarrevieja, Spain - Look in any pharmacology book and it will tell you that magnesium (Epsom salts is one form of it) is the second most plentiful cation of the intracellular fluids and is essential for the activity of many enzymes and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability. Deficits cause a variety of structural and functional disturbances. Epsom salts is given IV to prevent seizures in pre- eclamptic/eclamptic women to prevent seizures. Mg is a co- factor of all enzymes involved in phosphate transer reaction. Mg deficiency causes increased irritability, disorientation, convulsions (seiures) and psychotic behavior.It also had a direct effect on the neuromuscular and cardiovascular system. Hypomagnesium (deficit) occurs with vomiting, diarrhea, diuretic meds, and alcoholism (also our fast, junk food diets. You have lucked up and discovered what I often tell people" IF YOU CAN CURE THE PROBLEM WITH A VITAMIN OR MINERALS, THE PROBLEM IS NOT DISEASE, IT IS A DIETARY DEFICIENCY. Neurosurgeon Russell L. Blaylock, tells that excitotoxins also cause seiures, so I urge all readers to type in excitotoxins and hit go: copy the names they hide the excitotoxins under, then head for your kitchens and read ingredients on all foods there (including your raw, must be cooked chicken and beef), your canned foods, salad dressing, and sauces. You will learn that your food chain is as monosodiumglutamate laden as any stir-fried Asian meal. You just might find what is causing your seizures in the food you eat. If yours are caused by excitotoxins, we might ask Ted if magnesium is an antidote for MSG. If it is, then perhaps we should start giving alzheimers, Parkinson diseae patients Epsom salts 7 watch for improvement. The lovely part of taking epsom salts instead of anti-convulsants and anti-hypertensives is that it will quickly tell you when to quit by the diarrhea which is an early side effect. The medical field is not going to tell you to take epsom salts for seizures, even though it gives it for the same, because they can't patent, nor do you need to keep coming back to them for presciptions. But in defense of the individual doctors (a few of which would like to tell you about it), if they did and the AMA (the strongest union in the country) would jump on their case in a hurry and find some way to re-voke their license to practice medicine. Let's all say "THANK YOU, GOD" for the Ted's in this world." 10/21/2008: Elizabeth from Brentwood, NY replies: "If epsom salt gives you diarrhea, i don't understand how you are supposed to take it? you take it until it gives you diarrhea, then stop, and then what??" 11/09/2008: Arlan from Midland, Michigan replies: "Elizabeth, you can take a bath in it (it still passes into your body) with similar effects...barr the loose stools..You may also use Magnesium chloride tablets" 07/21/2010: Riya  from Edison, New Jersey, U.s.a. replies: "My daughter she is nine months and getting seizures, we tried medicines but as a side effect she gets very cranky. She is also Developmentally delayed. Can anyone suggest good home remedy to control her seizures? I read about Epsom salts, but also read overdose of it can lead to coma. . . . Don't know what to do?" 07/21/2010: Labes  from Toronto, Ontario, Canada replies: "Dear Riya, Some seizures are caused by parasites. So I advise you to give your daughter black walnut tincture. I hope that will help." 01/21/2012: Shalisha from Sydney, Australia replies: "Good natural antiparasites - 4 to 5 tablespoons of extra virgin or virgin coconut oil - contains lauric acid, a powerful antifungal. Wormwood (only for a few weeks at a time) you can also try a wormwood and black walnut tincture. Enteric-coated capsules of the following essential oils: oregano, thyme, peppermint, rosemary and garlic. Colloidal Silver Parasite purge formula containing items such as black walnut, clove, ginger root, anise seed, pau d'arco, peppermint and fennel 3-5 grams of water soluble fiber such as psyllium husks or guar gum L-arrginine - for removal of amonia waste products. Detoxificants: magnesium-oxide enzyme supplement (not with food) containing bromelain, papain, thymus, chymotrypsin, lipase, amylase etc. Anti-toxin: Charcoal tablets (after meals but away from medication and supplements) wash down with water Healthy oils: avocado oil, cod liver oil, fish oil (best is krill oil), flaxseed oil, grape seed oil, hemp oil, monounsaturated fats, olive oil and primrose oil. Avoid: caffeine, alcohol, artificial sweetners (use stevia instead), all shellfish and elimination organs of commercially raised animals such as liver and kidney, refined flour, rice and sugar, pork products, hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated fats, all junk food including fizzy sodas and anything out of an aluminum (phosphoric acid), fat free foods, olestra, canola and soy (in an unfermented state), and chlorinated or fluoridated water, avoid refined salt - use himalayan salt or kelp instead, dairy, yeast products. Eat fish, white meat, red meat no more than once a week, keep high-glycaemic fruit intake down. Eat more fruits that have low sugar-conversion, such as pears and apples. Take magnesium (best form is magnesium oil), zinc Vitamins b, c and e and a good omega supplement (krill oil is the best form of omega 3 and omega 6 is found in primrose oil and safflower oil to name a few. Flaxseed oil is also very good. Reduce environmental toxicity, avoid products with dangerous chemicals - try neways." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top GENERAL FEEDBACK 08/13/2011: Flowerlady from Crossville, Tennessee writes: "A Dr. diagnoised my 17 yr old grand-daughter with epilepsy. I'm am not convinced of his diagnosis. She had a one time passing out and no seziure activity was present. She went to the ER and all they found was she was dehydrated. Her brain scan was normal and her MRI was normal. The EEG she had was slightly abnormal. The 72 hour EEG she had had some peaks and a small amount of high electrial activy? areas. She has a headache occ. and does not sleep regulary or eat properly. She is under alot of stress and has anxiety attacks occ. But she is your active average teenager in her senoir year of school and makes very good grades. They want to put her on Lamictal but I'm not convinced that she has epilepsy and the med has way to many side effects. The Dr. said if she took the med for 5 yrs and did not have a seizuer she could come off it. My other concern is what damage will it do to her body in 5 years. Having trouble getting a second opinion. Any suggestions would be appreciated.Thanks" Replies 08/13/2011: Courtney from Granite Bay, Ca replies: "Not sure why you're having trouble getting a second opinion, but that's the route I would go for starters (and for certain). Definitely a second opinion. A "slightly abnormal EEG" can be caused by many things, including things as benign as a migraine, drug/alcohol use and attention problems. I have a daughter the same age as yours and I would absolutely get a second opinion no matter how many hoops I had to jump through to get it." 08/14/2011: Debbie from Melbourne, Australia  replies: "Flowerlady, sorry to hear about your daughter. Here is an article from Dr. A. Hoffer on using Niacin to stop anxiety. It is vitamin B3 totally safe. If you are worried that she "may" have a seizure then Magenesium would alleviate that. Please read both articles but the 2nd one states that Magnesium deficiency can lead to seizures. You would need to have her "Magnesium Blood Levels checked". Anyway read the article. There is a lot of info on the below site. Hope these help. Cheers http://www.doctoryourself.com/hoffer_niacin.html http://www.doctoryourself.com/epilepsy.html " Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 06/12/2011: L from Whitefish, Mt writes: "A friend of mine has had 2 seizures in 6 mo. The first one they thought was situational, because he had been on a diet, was very fatigued, and had had a lot of caffeine. Now, he has had a second one. After lots of tests, there seems to be no reason for them. One suggestion was that he quit the diet sodas he was drinking. And cut back on caffeine. Anyone discovered another reason a person in great health otherwise might start to have seizures?" Replies 06/13/2011: Debbie from Melbourne, Australia replies: "L. Just a guess, but I think your friend has a magnesium deficiency. Drinking soda will deplete your body of magnesium. Diet soda is particularly bad because it contains aspartame which also depletes magnesium. Magnesium deficiency is a known cause of seizures. Many epileptics are magnesium deficient as well. Here is an article for info but you could research further. Also I think magnesium needs to be supplemented with calcium, but you could check on that. http://barttersite.org/magnesium-supplementation-dosing/ " Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 10/06/2010: Susie from Vincennes, In writes: "I am 61 yrs of age and did not start having seizures until I turned the age of 40. I have been to MANY Dr. and then I decided to go to Mayo clinic in Minnesota to be checked out. May, 2008 a pace maker was installed and it has helped to control the seizures, but, I am taking a lot of medicine too." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top GLUTAMIC AND ASPARTIC ACID Ratings: 1 YEA [ YEA ]  09/11/2011: Jem from Austin, Tx writes: "one cause of epileptic seizures is an overdose of glutamic and aspartic acid. many foods contain these amino acids in their free state which creates a shutdown of neurotransmitter production in the brain, along with oxidizing it. i don't mean to be 'selling' anything, I have written a book on the subject of how dangerous these free form amino acids are to the brain affecting/causing everything from bi-polar disorder, anxiety, panic, rage.. to physical symptoms such as epilepsy, stroke, parkinson's, altzheimers.. the info is too vast to write here, however the main things to avoid are msg, which is freed glutamic acid and all things high in freed glutamic acid... there is a list of food substances in my book. also, aspartic acid in nutrasweet, fried foods.. processed foods.. the biggest culprits, cooked food, soy, oats, barley, wheat, grains, nuts, seeds, .... The obvious processed foods/foods that outright contain msg... and aspartame... hope this helps. My book is about to be launched through a site, if you contact me through this thread (as in, let me know you read this here) I'm happy to send anyone suffering from epilepsy a copy of my book.. you can donate later if it helps. it will be the last version before being edited for the upcoming launch.... Not the final version... the info is valuable the book is geared toward those who suffer from emotional disorders mild to severe and raising consciousness through live food" Replies 09/11/2011: Debbie from Melbourne, Australia  replies: "A really good book on seizures and glutamic acid written by a Neurosurgeon is "Excitotoxins, the Taste that Kills" By Dr. Russell Blaylock. He has done extensive study on the subject." 12/07/2011: Pradeep from Port Alfred, South Africa replies: "Hi Jem, I am struggling with epilepsy myself, and very interested in knowing more. My email address is pmohanlal35(at)gmail.com I have just been diagnozed. Thank you" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top GLUTEN AND CASEIN FREE DIET Ratings: 1 YEA [ YEA ]  12/19/2007: Jim from dallas, ga writes: "We started the gluten / casien free diet about a month and a half ag. I have noticed that my 4yr lod daughter's constipation has all but gone. We have started seeing a natruropathic dr. found that she had fungal yeast overgrowth in both the large and small intestines, mercury, and vaccines in her body. Since seeing the new dr. she has started getting some of her words back and being alot more affectionate towards everybody especially her older sister of 5yrs. old. Not to say it is a cure but GOD has opened doors for me and after 4yrs. of battlling seizure after seizure, and now autism, I think our tunnel is getting brighter." Replies 09/07/2011: Sharon from Rio Rancho, New Mexico replies: "Jim, I'm not sure about a regular doctor who does this, but I go to Lifetime Chiropractic in Rio Rancho, NM and for $25 you (or in this case, your daughter) can do a foot soak that will pull the metals out of her body. After that, they give you a tablet to take that replaces the good ones that got drawn out as well. I am also on a harmonious foods diet. This means that I buy mostly organic foods so not to get the chemicals from the processed foods, and that I don't mix starches and protiens. The diet is based on digestion. It might be something you want to consider. You can find the food chart at www.drugfreehelp.com ." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top LEARN TO STAY CALM Ratings: 1 YEA [ YEA ]  01/18/2009: Maureen from Portland, ME writes: "I had to write to you because I have been in a seizure situation for many years and I am finally starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel so I thought I would pass it on. First, a quick story about me. When I was around 18 in 1989 I started having petit mal seizures and no one knew why or what brought them on. Looking back, I remember I was getting to the end of my high school years, and one day in celebration, me and a bunch of friends went swimming. And, in the pool, I was so excited to be in the pool...swimming so fast, I did a flip turn no knowing there was a seating area in the pool and bumped my head. I walked off, trying not to make a big scene...just let the pain go away on its own. A couple of days later at a graduation party, I remember having a few wine coolers...more than normal (that is not a lot..but it was to me!) and I had a seizure. I heard about it the next day. (Looking back and reading more about seizure causes, it could have been an acid buildup in the brain...an area of tissue that was disrupted and then the acids put in my body made it to the brain..and seizures were formed). Well, at the time I thought it was a one shot deal and didn't tell mom and dad. Well, time went on..a year or two and I was going through college and living abroad in France and I noticed they were coming back...more often now. So, I went to a doctor in France while I was on my study abroad and to make a long story short, I was told I had epilepsy. I was put on pills and I thought that was it. I got back to the U.S and I was still having them. At first, I wasn't the best about taking the meds religiously...but as time went on, I WAS taking them...all of them, like clock work. And, still having seizures. I tried MANY different drugs with no positive outcome. SO, in 1995, after getting different doctors opinions (looking back, from doctors that were almost identical) I had brain surgery to help get "rid" of these seizures. Well, what the surgery got rid of was my great memory and my ability to read. Following surgery I didn't know anyone's name...I didn't remember the states...or even something basic like the word "flower." Well, it finally came back (before surgery I was a foreign language teacher...French and Spanish...that was gone following surgery. But, the French came back...not perfect...after about 8 months) So, with a 6 month speech therapy class, my reading came back...not perfect...and my memory is not as sharp as it once was. Am I angry? You're damn right I have been angry, depressed, confused,...you name it! Why me? I was a great student in high school...number 9 in the class, went to a great college...felt like such a strong and independent woman! And now I am reliant on everyone else, can't drive, feel weak, memory is not the sharpest,..and the meds I was one got me even more depressed...and I was STILL HAVING SEIZURES!!! Well, I decided a year and a half ago, I wanted to see a change! I took myself off those pills that were killing me. You know, going in to see if my LIVER was still Ok. every few months just didn't seem right to me! You know, in my opinion, the BEST doctor in the world is IN ALL OF US...In OUR body! Let me figure out this doctor and see what needs to be done. The first couple of months off those pills, I think I was SO happy, feeling strong and IN CONTROL and I didn't have ONE seizure! So, again, to make a long story short - what controls our seizures? Well, that would be our emotions! As time went on, as I started getting USED to not having them, I let small things bother me. And, well, to make a long story short, I started having them again. SO, I read more, and came across a nice book. First one: http://www.amazon.com/Treating-Epilepsy-Naturally-Alternative-Therapies/dp/0658013793/ref=sr_1_7?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1232294774&sr=8-7 Nice, encouraging, natural approach to seizure control. What a nice, refreshing outlook. NEXT: http://www.amazon.com/Epilepsy-New-Approach-Adrienne-Richard/dp/0802774652/ref=sip_rech_dp_4 After reading this and seeing that there was someone who could come and HELP me with controlling my seizures...and someone who has been through it HERSELF helped me. She had encephalitis herself MANY years ago...had ALL the seizures OFTEN and was told by doctors - sorry, there is nothing we can do. Well, to get to the point, she taught HERSELF how to control them and it has now been...what are we up to..30 years!!! Seizure free! So, I had her come on over to my home for 4 days to train me how to control them. Do I have it PERFECT yet? No. But, do I know that at one point, I will have this DOWN! YES! You know what makes it hard? We ALL have emotions. We are human! That is normal and NATURAL. However, if you have epilepsy, you have to learn to take it all in stride. Don't let emotions get the best of you. Well, that isn't as easy as it may seem. BUT, it is possible. What makes it easier is the warnings our brain/body DO give us. Ig is kind of saying, "Watch out...a seizure may be coming." I NEVER though I had warnings...that must be what those other lucky people have. But, not me. Over time, I did realize, WOW...that IS a warning. There is a long list...I will let you read about the different warning signals. But, once you do get to know yourself and SEE or FEEL the warning, just BREATHE. Take DEEP, RELAXING breaths. That is it. When you feel it coming, BREATHE. Change the direction of the negative activity of the brain. Now, I told you, I don't have it perfect yet. Here is a recent example. I am a massage therapist (damn good!) and I was VERY busy yesterday. One client after another. Well, I needed to go and have lunch. The healthy, friendly, open arms, cute Thai restaurant I go to often was closed. I was sad, surprised and just decided to go to the other Thai place. I had been there once and didn't like it as much. But, had to eat and run. SO, go over, Maureen! I went in and waited for about 10 minutes to be seated so that didn't start off well. There was barely anyone there! Why so long? Then to get the menu and for them to help me...and when they DID come to me, they were annoyed I was there. So, to say the least, a lot of negative engery took over in my brain. And, a few minutes later, seizure. Petit mal. When I came to, I was frustrated and angry. But looking back, I SHOULD HAVE KNOWN. Come on! Obviously I was annoyed! Why didn't I just BREATHE and let positive take over. With breathing, my brain could have looked at this differently. It could have turned this around saying, "Maureen, maybe these waitresses are having a bad day. Maybe something bad happened to them today. They are human. Smile at them and let them enjoy the rest of their day." But, I didn't. Do you see how something so simple could have turned it around? But, I am human and negative took over. Soon, I WILL grasp this 100% ..but not yet. =) So, stay positive and the seizure will be a thing of the past! A NEW, WONDERFUL, DIFFERENT life could come! You COULD control those seizures and help OTHERS do the same. Getting this word out is needed. Not EVERYONE NEEDS drugs to control their seizures. BUT!! don't just STOP taking the meds. This needs to be well thought out. Read the books I have sent you. Keep a journal. If you want to go one step further, have Dr. Donna Andrews come to your home to work with you. Here is the info. http://www.andrewsreiter.com/ If you have any other questions, let me know! Good luck everyone! Oops, one last thing. After reading Ted's last post on Ph water balance in the brain to control seizures, I have been doing that myself the past few months which has been helping me and I will put that together in another story. Drinking water with a higher ph can help MANY ailments. More in a couple days. Right now, go get those books!" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top MINI-SEIZURES 08/10/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington writes: "I am 39 and I have been having strange symptoms. It has happened at the store two times, usually when I am very stressed. I get up to the counter and my body goes into what I can only equate as having a mini seizure. My head starts to shake, my body starts to jerk around, and I have a hard time walking. It is to say the least humiliating. If anyone knows what can cause this I would be so grateful. I am an outgoing person and am now leary about going anywhere out of fear that this will happen again. Many thanks." EC : To rule out a serious medical condition, it would be wise to see your physician as soon as possible. Replies 08/11/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "Thank you.I know I need to see a doctor, but we have been severely hit by the recession and at this point, going to a doctor would mean not having food for the week.We have no insurance and you have to pay in advance just to have an office visit. I was just hoping someone in the earth clinic community has experienced this and could give me some insight into what I am dealing with. This has never happened at home. If anyone can help me, please email me and be sure to put in the subject line that you are part of earth clinic so I don't accidentally delete the email. Once again, thank you." 08/11/2009: Ratgirldjh from Austin, Tx replies: "try taking about a teaspoon of epsom salts a day. also try taking epsom salt baths - 1 to 2 cups in a bath of warm or hot water. sounds like you are very deficient in magnesium and this is an easy way to get some quick." 08/11/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "Thank you for your insight!I was just talking to my husband about the magnesium also. I will start that today and update soon. Thank you again." 08/12/2009: Tricia from Ireland replies: "Hi tara, considering that this doesn't happen at home, i reckon you could possibly have the same neck artritis that my freind has in her neck. She gets very waek everytime she looks up for any lenght of time and the inflammation causes blood vessels to the brain to become blocked and therefore causes the dizziness and palpatations. The other places where she can also have problems is at the washing line and at the hardressers when her hair is being washed.She was told that the only cure is not to look upwards but I'm sure some of the arthritis remedies would be of benefit. BTW she doesn't feel any arthritis pain in her neck although she is riddled with pain elswhere." 08/12/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "Okay, day two of epson salts and magnesium supplements. I really thought I was fine to go to the store, but in the middle of check out it happened again.I had to tell the lady I forgot something, so that I could go hide in the bathroom for awhile. I just had to leave the store after that. It might take longer then two days to get the magnesium back into my body I suppose. I will keep trying.Wish me luck" 08/12/2009: Moi from V Ville, Ca replies: "Yes, it really does seem like your are uber stressed out and your body is just reacting to it. Still go to a dr. if you can. It is very easy to forget to nourish yourself when your head is constantly freaking out, so........ 1. Drink lots of water- clean with no chemicals (sometimes we forget to drink and it has very immediate and alarming effects on the body and mind). 2. Magnesium & potassium 3. Chamomile tea 4. Take baths with Epson Salts -very cheap- 5. take a walk alone -with no chores along the way- with music good luck" 08/13/2009: T  from Baltimore, Md, Usa replies: "Hi Tara, I have to second the suggestion about seeing a doctor, but I also understand the financial restrictions. I do hope you'll have the means to see one soon so you can rule out anything overtly physical. You say this has happened at a checkout, 3 times now? Have you ever had these symptoms at any other time/place? Was it always the same store? If it's always in just the same place, I wonder if there's something there that you are sensitive to. What is your diet like? Are there any underlying conditions? On the nutrition front, make sure you have adequate iron intake. Getting a ferritin blood test would be good, and you can order one yourself online far cheaper than going through the doctor. Whether you get iron through diet or supplements, taking some vitamin C when you ingest iron will assist your body in assimilating it. I do want to caution that too much iron can be a very bad thing, so be reasonably sure you're deficient before supplementing. Magnesium is great but you should be balancing that with calcium, and you should read up on zinc/copper balance as well as that could be playing a role. In addition, a good B-complex could assist with the stress reactions and provide numerous other benefits. Sending out a prayer that you get the answers you need and become free of this. Please do keep us posted!" 08/14/2009: Huck from San Jose, Ca replies: "You might have epilepsy you need to go see a doctor a neurologist - Do any of your family members have epilepsy on your fathers side or mothers side? Don't take baths because if you have a seizure you can drown. If you have epilepsy it can be controlled with medication just go see a doctor. No worries" 08/14/2009: Jen from Los Angeles, Ca replies: "Hi...I also think you may have a form of seizure (Sz) disorder. I use to work in a grocery store and we had a few people have seizures in the store. The fluorescent lights can induce a Sz. I now work in the field of sleep disorders and use to do EEG (brain studies to rule out (R/O) Sz disorder and other anomalies) studies and we would have the patients come in slep deprived and flash lights at varying speeds to try and induce/produce some type of epileptiform (AKA a Sz) activity. Make sure you also get plenty of good sleep and that you do not have a sleep disorder. If you are otherwise in good health ie., you wake-up well rested without headaches or any other unwanted symptoms/complaints and are able to sleep throughout the night, then you are likely fine in that department. All of the other comments on this thread are great! Be safe. Be well and do get to the doctor as soon as you can for an evaluation." 08/15/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "I have no family history on either side. My diet is pretty decent, I'm an organic gardener and love love my veggies. Do you think that a seizure can be caused by stress, and if so where do I go from here. I plan on seeing a doctor on Monday, the only problem is that I will have to go to minor care and they never do any kind of testing and they will see what my symptoms are and medicate from there. I really need to have a cat scan or something I would think, but for the uninsured it costs a bunch. Thank you all for your posts, it's nice to know that even tho you don't know me, you have taken time to give me advice. God bless you for being caring people, it's a gift." 08/16/2009: Lisa from Thousand Oaks, Ca replies: "Why don't you find a good acupuncturist. It will be less expensive than Western medicine and probably get to the root of it. The body is treated very differently in this approach and finds a way to balance it rather than hide it with meds." 08/18/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "I've been doing some research on stress and seizures.There is a type of seizure that is not epilepsy and is brought on by stress.I also think I have an ear infection that is throwing my balance way off and making me feel disoriented. So first thing is first, quit smoking after 26 years, get my vitamins back into my body, get the h2o2 into my ears and pray that this works.I don't think a doctor could do any better. The stress might be a little harder to get under control, but I am trying. Oh yah, drink lots of water. Thank you all for your posts. Now let's see if doctor me is right." 08/19/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "Update. My mother in law, bless her heart was really worried and said, now honey you really need to see a doctor just to be sure it's not serious. Okay, so I went to the ER, sat around for three hours just for them to tell me that yes in fact the stress is having an impact on me.And yes there is pressure behind your ears.So doctor brilliant prescribes me an antihistamine(sp?)It's been three days and this overglorified junk is not helping at all. Not to mention the side effects include being dizzy.Great, that'll cost me over 400.00. I am at the end of my rope here.I will need to go somewhere else, someone has got to take me seriously. I am continuing my regular routine of vitamins etc. I'll update when something happens." 08/20/2009: Talia from Redondo Beach, California replies: "Symptoms of an overactive thyroid include shaking and tremors, one possibility. A hypoglycemic attack can cause shaking. Seizures can also be caused by an allergic reaction to medication. Also, don't discount an allergic reaction to a food or drink you recently added to your diet. Any artificial sweeteners or msg in your diet? Think about starting a food diary and rack your brain for anything you started around the same time as your seizures. Video games can cause seizures. Vitamin or Mineral Deficiency Hypoglycemia Allergic reaction to medication or food Video games or cartoons that flash a lot of images at once (read up on the Japanese children that suffered seizures after watching a certain cartoon show years ago) Hope the seizures stop asap. Keep us updated! Wishing you the best of health, Talia" 08/22/2009: Frank from NY, NY replies: "Interesting causes of seizures on this thread. Another condition that can cause seizures is cysticercosis, an infection from ingestion of tapeworm larvae. From the CDC website: "Neurocysticercosis (cysticerci in the brain, spinal cord): Symptoms of neurocysticercosis depend upon where and how many cysticerci (often called lesions) are found in the brain. Seizures, and headaches are the most common symptoms. However, confusion, lack of attention to people and surroundings, difficulty with balance, swelling of the brain (called hydrocephalus) may also occur. Death can occur suddenly with heavy infections. http://www.cdc.gov/NCIDOD/DPD/parasites/cysticercosis/factsht_cysticercosis.htm " 08/22/2009: Magdowser from Hendersonville, Nc replies: "Tara, overnight after a MRI in Jan of '87 to rule out MS (it didn't), I started having movements that felt like seizures and looked like body quakes. Took me a while, but finally realized I was sensitive to electromagnetic fields (EMF) and even somebody getting close to me (aura) would set me off. Even fall down over power lines, water streams,etc. Your note about being near the cashier is what made me write you. So pay attention to lighting, refrigeration boxes in stores, etc. and take notes as to what you feel, muscle tightness, seizures,etc. Who knows, it could be the neurocysticercosis, heavy metals, gluten ramifications, etc. Determined not to die dumb, I hit the alternative field, and am 90% less sensitive with thanks to evening primrose oil, cranio sacral therapy, removing amalgams, earthclinic, low dose naltrexone, oil pulling, going off gluten, dowsing what is good for me (supplement-wise). Keep up your healing quest! MAG" 08/25/2009: Tara from Clarkston, Washington replies: "Mag, that is fascinating. I am really ready for anything that might be helpful. I went to yet another doctor that prescribed a low dose blood pressure med although my bp is 122/80 and that was in an office, so would probably be lower in a normal (for me) setting. It is a beta blocker, and although is has stopped the adrenaline rush from making my body freak out, it is just covering up the symptom and not getting to the cause. Today I had accupressure, which was awesome, but that too is more money than I can afford. But, the guy that did it told me that it might be that my liver is not processing this certain hormone quickly enough and that may be causing my blood vessels to squeeze and that in effect causes me to have the trembling and such. Because my body is needing, I guess, to pump more blood at these times. Although I am glad that the beta blockers are working in the short term, traditional medicine always puts a smiley face on a problem that needs fixing. Can you tell me more about what you have done.I am not real familiar with some of the terminology you use but am willing and able to learn.Thank you for your insight. If it's not creepy to you, please email me at walburn8@msn.com and put on the subject line earthclinic or mini seizures so I can fish you out of my spam folder. Good night and God bless you and yours. Tara" 09/29/2010: Rachael  from Naples, Fl replies: "Have you considered panic attacks? I've had very similar symptoms caused by anxiety which is induced by stress." 09/05/2011: K. M. from Los Angeles, Ca replies: "A friend started having seizures as an adult and couldn't understand why. All the scans and tests came up negative. He was put on medication but it just gave him bad side effects and didn't really help so he stopped taking them. Then he was sitting in a theatre eating thick taffy candies when he felt something happen on one of his back teeth but it was so fast he swallowed it. Turns out a candy had stuck to a loose mercury filling and pulled it off his tooth. He figures he pooped it out because after that all his seizures and mental issues went away. So you might want to consider removing any mercury fillings and detox the heavy metals in your body to be sure they're not short circuiting your brain." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top NATURAL REMEDIES Ratings: 1 WARNING! [ WARNING! ]  02/22/2009: Debra from High Point, North Carolina USA writes: "I have used natural health remedies for a long time. I have not used a lot that I have seen here on this site and will love to try them. What someone tries for a natural health remedy that effects only them and their body is their own business. There are certain conditions, such as seizures, diabetes, or anything that can effect your concious state of mind, that everyone needs to be very careful about. When a person with seizures goes off meds, they open themselves up to having massive seizures. Brian injuries can not be cured overnight. My son and I were almost killed by someone who had simply reduced their seizure medication. That choice was not fair to us, or anyone else who may have been hurt. We had a car accident. It only effected three people in the car, myself, my son and my husband who had the seizure. He has gone often for months and weeks without a seizure with low or no medication. Eventually it is going to happen again. With his medication at full theraputic levels it never happens. This highway accident could have resulted in dozens of people hurt or dead. So please I beg you, as I sit here with broken bones and torn muscles, do not stop taking seizure medications and drive or do anything dangerous if you were to have a seizure. It is grossly irresponsible to everyone else in society. That is not a natural way to be." Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top REMEDIES NEEDED Ratings: 1 BETTER BUT NOT CURED 1 SIDE EFFECT 02/14/2012: Lakshmipriya from Chennai, Tamilnadu, India writes: "epilepsy please somebody can suggest remedy for my son suffering for the past 12 years with grandmal. He is taking sodium valporate (chrono) 500mg a mixture of sodium valporate and valporic acid. Lamitor DT100mg both the times. He is taking sleeping tablets in the night also he is falling and get hurt mostly his head. I tried epsom salt for the past 2 weeks. 1/4-1/2 spoon but he started falling since yesterday almost 5 times and his head swollen up. I want some herbal remedy to reduce the tablets. His limbs has also got affected. Please help me with herbal remedy to get some control. It may come anytime if he lost his sleep during his sleep. no specific timings between the seizures. " Replies 02/14/2012: Janet from Kendal, U.k replies: "I'm writing to tell you about a very interesting article I read. It was telling the story about how coconut oil decrease seizures, it went on to say many other things affected by the brain disfuctioning were also helped. Lecithin is also another very interesting thing rich in omega 3 and 6 and ALA which are also good for the brain. Both certainly worth researching. Have you tried posting on the Facebook page for earth clinic, Asking for tried and tested remedies and results. Good Luck.:)" Reply to this Thread Email Print Back to Top 1 2 Copyright © 2012 | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy