
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 09:07:44 GMT
Server: Apache
ETag: "a339a5bd74bbb4794023611b80675dfd"
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Last-Modified: Fri, 11 Jul 2008 21:18:27 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Ways to Stop Smoking (Mind Matters Hypnotherapy, Farnham Surrey, Alton Hampshire | Mind Matters Ways to Stop Smoking (Mind Matters Hypnotherapy, Farnham Surrey, Alton Hampshire | Mind Matters Home Farnham (Surrey) Clinic Alton (Hampshire) Clinic Guildford FAQs Credentials Contact About Hypnotherapy Confidence Depression Sports Hypnotherapy Insomnia & Anxiety Weight Control Stop Smoking Fears and Phobias Childbirth Useful links Book a Consultation Stop Smoking Addiction vs habit The full story Ways of stopping The benefits of stopping Reasons to stop Quitting with hypnosis Different ways to stop Don't forget - that with any Stop Smoking strategy, you must do the stopping yourself.  Patches, pills and other people cannot stop for you.  You must do that yourself. Decide to stop smoking now. Don't forget - the financial cost of stopping is irrelevant since none of the methods below would reasonably cost more than £250 and a 10/day smoker would save that within 3 months of stopping.  Stop smoking forever. Don't forget - your motivition to stop smoking is a pre-requisite for any and all of the following methods.  The more motivated you are, the better your chances of success.  Find ways to increase your motivation. Acupuncture Hypnotherapy Quit Smoking NHS - National Health Service Stop Smoking Nicotine Gum Nicotine Inhaler Nicotine Patches Willpower Zyban Acupuncture Pro's Safe, can be drug free, immediate, works for some. Cons No real evidence that it increases your chances of stopping. Treatment To stop smoking using Acupuncture, you will probably have up to 5 visits in the first month after you stop.  The first visit is likely to be a consultation and fact finding for the clinician and you.  You will then stop smoking followed by the remaining sessions, during which tiny needles are inserted into the body at various points and you are then left to relax for a short period of time.  The needles restore the bodies balance and flow of Qi (pronounced "chee").You may also be required to take some medicine. Caution Only use a registered professional clinician. Hypnotherapy Stop Smoking Pro's Safe, drug free, works for most, no side effects, immediate, enjoyable, permanent, no weight gain, cravings or irritability, you take responsibility for stopping Cons Some people are put off at first by the image of hypnosis created by the stage shows. Treatment Quit Smoking with Hypnotherapy is normally just one session lasting 1-2 hours.  Some hypnotherapists will send you a powerful motivational CD to increase your desire to stop before your session.  Good hypnotherapists will ensure that the session is tailored to your own goals and motivations.  The first part of the session is normally a two way discussion about the smoking habit, and the second part is the trance session.  More information can be found here . Research (1) to find the most effective method to stop smoking utilising the results of more than 600 studies totalling nearly 72,000 people and including 48 studies of hypnosis covering 6000 smokers, clearly showed that hypnosis, was three times more effective than NRT. Caution Only use a qualified professional therapist who is a registered member of a recognised body (e.g. National Council for Hypnotherapy ). NHS - National Health Service Stop Smoking Pro's Group support offered for stop smoking, some home vists offered, plus the benefits described in this section for the NRT recommended. Cons All the cons and side effects described in this section for the NRT recommended, lengthy stopping time, re-inforces the (false) belief that nicotine is physically addictive, over-reliance on others/NRT to do the stopping for you. Treatment Most stop smoking groups meet for 1/2 hours every week for 6/7 weeks. You'll usually spend the first couple of sessions planning and preparing to give up, then stop smoking in week three with the help of one form of Nicotine Replacement Therapy (see sections below on Nicotine Gum, Nicotine Patches,Nicotine Inhalors and Zyban).  You can share tips with fellow stop smokers and usually regular relapse prevention meetings are held. One to one sessions are also available with support supplemented by NRT or Zyban (see sections below). Nicotine Gum Pro's Self administered, easy to use, flavoured gum, different strengths available. Cons Continuing to poison your body whilst using the gum, side effects (mouth ulcers, indigestion), lengthy stopping time, re-inforces the (false) belief that nicotine is physically addictive, some  don't want to chew gum in public, correct chewing technique required for full benefit, taste isn't great, over-reliance on the gum to do the stop smoking for you. Treatment Gum containing a nicotine compound is chewed instead of having a cigarette.  Chew until there is a strong taste, then leave the gum against the wall of the mouth to absorb the nicotine.  When the taste starts to wane, chew again and repeat the process until the gum has no more taste. Around 5% suffer side effects and research (3&4) shows that Nicotine Gum, like other Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) is successful for about 15%(twice as effective as using will power alone) of stop smokers. Caution NRT should not be used if you have heart disease, an over-active thyroid gland, diabetes, severe kidney or liver disease, stomach ulcers or if you are under 18 (NRT has only been safely tested on adults). Nicotine Inhalor Pro's Self adminstered for stop smokers, easy to use, helps people who think they will struggle with the lack of something to do with their hands. Con's Continuing to poison your body whilst using the gum, side effects (sore mouth, muscle aches and pains, nausea), very visible, lengthy stopping time, re-inforces the (false) belief that nicotine is physically addictive,  taste isn't great, over-reliance on the inhalor to do the stopping for you. Treatment A plastic device in the shape of a cigarette with a nicotine cartridge fitted into it is sucked on instead of smoking a cigarette. Sucking on the mouthpiece releases nicotine vapour, which gets absorbed through your mouth and throat.  40-60% will experience soreness of the mouth and throat whilst around 5% will experience other side effects.  Research (3&4) shows that  Nicotine Inhalors, like other Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) are successful for about 15% (twice as effective as using willpower alone) of stop smokers. Caution NRT should not be used if you have heart disease, an over-active thyroid gland, diabetes, severe kidney or liver disease, stomach ulcers or if you are under 18 (NRT has only been safely tested on adults). Nicotine Patches Pro's Self administered, easy to use, unobtrusive, different strengths available. Cons Continue to poison your body whilst using the gum, side effects (skin rash, burning at the patch site,dizziness, sleep disturbance, nausea), re-inforces the (false) belief that nicotine is physically addictive, temptation to smoke whilst on patches (or removing them to have a smoke), over-reliance on the patches to do the stop smoking for you. Treatment A patch much like a sticking plaster is stuck to the upper body some for 24 hours to help with early morning cravings, others for day use only.  Each new patch should be placed somewhere different to the previous patch.  Patches are not harmed by water and should continue to be worn whilst showering/bathing etc.   The patch releases a steady dose of nicotine which is absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream.  There is little point in using patches more than 8 weeks.  Research (3&4) shows that  Nicotine Patches, like other Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) are successful for about 15% (twice as effective as using willpower alone) of stop smokers. Caution NRT should not be used if you have heart disease, an over-active thyroid gland, diabetes, severe kidney or liver disease, stomach ulcers or if you are under 18 (NRT has only been safely tested on adults). Willpower Pro's Most popular method, safe, no side effects, you take full responsibility for stopping Cons Some nicotine withdrawl symptoms in some last up to a few weeks. Treatment You decide to stop smoking, you set a date and time, smoke your last cigarette and go cold turkey.  You do not give in to any cravings you experience until the memory of smoking has gone.  Willpower is more effective when used in conjunction with hypnotherapy or NRT Zyban Pro's Combats the cravings and withdrawls without the use of Nicotine Cons Can cause serious side effects (sleep disturbance, dry mouth, nausea, dizziness, headaches, risk of siezure, palpiatations), course of drugs lasts 7-12 weeks, over-reliance on the Zyban to do the stopping for you. Treatment Zyban tablets are swallowed whole and taken with water.  They reduce the desire to smoke and after starting your course of tablets you decide when to stop (recommended within 2 weeks, better within one week of starting the course).  The active ingredient is bupropion hydrochloride which affects the chemical balance in the brain, by preventing certain neurotransmitters (dopamine and noradrenaline) from being re-absorbed into the nerve cells.  Research shows it to be successful for about 30% (twice as effective of NRT). Caution There are dangers with any drugs, especially ones that affect the chemicals in the brain.  Zyban is essentially an anti-depressant and risk of adverse reaction is clear.  This must however be weighed against the risk of continuing to smoke.  Zyban is not recommended if you are pregnant, breast feeding, have a history of epilepsy, liver disease or an eating disorder. Back to top References (1)To find the most effective method to stop smoking Frank Schmidt and research student Chockalingham Viswesvaran from the university of Iowa used a meta-analysis, utilising the results of more than 600 studies totalling nearly 72,000 people.  
The results, which were published in the Journal of Applied Psychology and included 48 studies of hypnosis covering 6000 smokers. (2) www.givingupsmoking.co.uk/nhs_sss/Stop_smoking_groups (3) Tobacco Advisory Group of the Royal College of Physicians - Nicotine Addiction in Britain. London, Royal College of Physicians, February 2000 (4) Stead L et al. Effectiveness of interventions to help