Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://www.accesscontinuingeducation.com/ACE4010-10/c4/index.htm
Last-Modified: Wed, 29 Dec 2010 15:57:33 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "bdaf161b71a7cb1:2add"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 26 Feb 2012 23:43:26 GMT
Connection: close

ACE - Access Continuing Education - HIV: Where Are We Now? HIV: Where Are We Now? HIV Select Issues Overivew/Background Epidemiology Routes fo HIV 
                      Transmission Clinical Management 
                      of HIV HIV Select Issues Summary References Test Exit to Menu Male Circumcision Studies have shown that the mucosal surface of the male foreskin 
                    contains a greater number of HIV target cells (known as Langerhans 
                    cells) than the skin along the penile shaft. The foreskin 
                    is also more sensitive and fragile and more easily torn during 
                    sexual activity, again increasing the risk of HIV entry with 
                    exposure. During male circumcision, the foreskin or the prepuce 
                    of the penis is removed. Results of studies in Africa and Asia have shown promising 
                    results. Overall, male circumcision has reduced HIV infection 
                    rates by 44 - 71% in areas where the circumcision rate for 
                    men is less than 20%. Following male circumcision, there were 
                    also reductions in rates of genital ulcer disease, chlamydia 
                    and penile cancer (Weiss et al., 2006). CDC is currently reviewing data in order to make recommendations 
                    on circumcision for men living in the U.S. Preliminary data 
                    has shown decreased rates of HIV transmission during penile-vaginal 
                    sex (more common in Africa/Asia), but not penile-anal sex 
                    (more common in US). Additionally, more US males were circumcised 
                    as infants than in many other countries bringing into question 
                    the cost effectiveness and risk ratio of the surgical procedure 
                    as an adult. Regardless of future recommendations, it is important 
                    to stress the fact that circumcision should not be considered 
                    an effective barrier to HIV infection, but rather used in 
                    conjunction with other barriers or abstinence (CDC, 2010). HIV Vaccine Development There continues to be much interest and research in the development 
                    of a vaccine for HIV. In the past decade, numerous vaccines 
                    have been trialed to some extent in the US and in developing 
                    countries with limited success. Scientists have learned valuable 
                    information from the trials, but to date, no effective vaccine 
                    has been developed. The process of HIV vaccine development has been difficult 
                    in many ways. First, the virus mutates rapidly, making it 
                    a sort of "moving target." Next, clinical trials are expected 
                    to be conducted safely without placing participants at unnecessary 
                    risk. With the HIV vaccine, failure could lead to infection 
                    with an incurable disease. Finally, there are ethical issues 
                    related to developing countries and the benefit and risk of 
                    trialing the vaccine. There is no cure and no approved HIV vaccine today, but hopefully 
                    the future will hold both. Future research may include gene 
                    therapy to mitigate target cells and receptor cells on the 
                    surface of the CD4 cells of the immune system. Topical Antiviral Agents The use of a vaginal cream or gel to prevent HIV infection 
                    in women has been a consideration for several years. This 
                    year, there was finally a report from a clinical trial using 
                    a tenofovir gel in South Africa that showed a 54% reduction 
                    in HIV infection among women in the study who were adherent 
                    with the gel application. Lower, but still improved rates 
                    of infection were reported for women with lower adherence 
                    rates. This was a breakthrough in prevention and may prove 
                    to be a safe and cost effective method of HIV prevention in 
                    years to come, especially in populations where condom use 
                    is infrequent. Gel application allows women to protect themselves 
                    when their partners refuse to use barriers in a way that is 
                    not obvious. HIV and the Aging Population The number of new cases of HIV infection among people age 
                    50+ has continued to rise steadily since 1997. In addition, 
                    due to the effectiveness of ART, the number of people who 
                    are living with HIV/AIDS at age 50+ continues to climb. Currently, 
                    about one of every five persons with HIV/AIDS in the US is 
                    age 50+ (Shah & Mildvan, 2010). The older HIV population has 
                    problems that are specific to their age cohort including: Lack of knowledge of HIV/AIDS risk behaviors Denial of risk Later diagnosis, often with AIDS Naturally decreasing immune system Social isolation Financial Hardships Stigma: HIV and ageism Drug/drug interactions related to multiple medical conditions Care and treatment of this population may need to be modified 
                    to assist with these issues. Affordable safe housing, proper 
                    nutrition, transportation to and from medical appointments, 
                    availability of medications and other issues must be discussed 
                    prior to staring ART to assure the best possible outcome. 
                    Social support is also very important, and seniors should 
                    be encouraged to participate in social activities with family 
                    and friends regardless if they choose to disclose their HIV 
                    status or not. Many older adults are afraid of the stigma 
                    associated with HIV infection and become more isolated at 
                    a time when social support is important. HIV education is 
                    important, since many older adults choose not to be around 
                    loved ones because they fear infecting them with the virus. Older adults who understand HIV transmission and risk factors 
                    will be able to continue in relationships without the worry 
                    of accidental transmission. Case Study 
                          #2 Cathy is a 64 year old woman. Her husband died 4 years 
                          ago and she has been very lonely. One day neighbor and 
                          friend introduced her to her brother, who recently moved 
                          nearby to be closer to family. Ed retired from the military 
                          and had traveled all over the world. Several weeks later 
                          he invited her out to dinner and a movie. She had not 
                          dated since her husband's death, but felt like it would 
                          be ok since it was her friend's brother. When she got 
                          ready to leave for the evening his sister said jokingly, 
                          "Be careful, he's always been a real ladies man." Her date acted like a gentleman all evening. He opened 
                          doors, pulled out her chair, and told non-stop accounts 
                          of his exciting life in the military. His last post 
                          before retiring was Bangkok. He made it sound beautiful 
                          and mysterious. Cathy asked if he ever married and he 
                          said no, but he had been in several long-term relationships. 
                          He was easy to be with, and soon she was in a serious 
                          relationship. Identify clues that Cathy might have been putting 
                            herself at risk for HIV/AIDS. What questions could she have asked? What else could they have done? In your opinion this your case out of the ordinary 
                            or do you think that it is common behavior? Cathy may be at risk for HIV infection. Ed has been 
                          in the military and traveled to many different countries. 
                          Like others their age, ED and Cathy may have limited 
                          knowledge of HIV risk factors. Ed has had multiple long 
                          term relationships, and may also have had other sexual 
                          partners. Thailand has a brisk prostitution trade and 
                          a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS. As their relationship 
                          progressed, Cathy should have asked about other sexual 
                          encounters, STDs, and if he had been tested for HIV. 
                          Although Cathy had been in a monogamous relationship, 
                          they should go together to be tested for HIV. This case 
                          is common, especially among older people. Many are not 
                          well informed about the risks associated with HIV/AIDS, 
                          and consider barrier use necessary only for protection 
                          fro