<http://www.mmaacupuncture.com/acupuncture_mma/?p=843>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Acupuncture for Insomnia | Acupuncture Holistic MMA Log In Register Acupuncture Holistic MMA Acupuncture, Holistic Therapies, and Martial Arts Blog Home About the Acupuncturist Contact the Acupuncturist MMA Acupuncture Website Schedule an Appointment Disclaimer Main Site About the Acupuncturist Classes and Rates Martial Arts Training MMAacupuncture.com Home Services and Rates Categories Acupuncture Anatomy and Physiology AutoImmune Chinese Martial Arts Common Ailments Employee Wellness Endocrine Disorders Fitness Foods Gastrointestinal Grappling Healthy Dining and Shopping Holistic Living Immunology Jujitsu Martial Arts Metabolic Diseases MMA Motivation and Inspiration Musculoskeletal Neurology Nutrition Pain Management Pharmacology Psychological Recipes SoCal Local Tai Chi and Qi Gong Traditional Chinese Medicine Videos Weight Loss Health Organizations California Acupuncture Board Center for Disease Control and Prevention Healthfinder.Gov US Department of Health and Human Services US Food and Drug Administration USDA MyPlate World Health Organization Acupuncture House Calls and Martial Arts Recent Comments cal@californiagrown on Types of Avocados Grown Here in California Carlo St. Juste Jr., L.Ac on An Overview of UFC MMA Rules for Traditional Martial Artists MMA Stance on An Overview of UFC MMA Rules for Traditional Martial Artists Carlo St. Juste Jr., L.Ac on The Benefits of Tai Chi You Probably Didn’t Know About MMA sport on The Benefits of Tai Chi You Probably Didn’t Know About Acupuncture for Insomnia March 13, 2012 By Carlo St. Juste Jr., L.Ac A Very Common Sleep Disorder So you’re having trouble going to sleep? Is it affecting your work? Your marriage? Your schooling? Insomnia refers to the inability to fall asleep or stay sleeping.  From my Acupuncturist clinical perspective it can be a little tricky to treat, mainly because there has to be a fine understanding of the lifestyle habits or other factors involved. There are many causes for insomnia, including stress, anxiety, certain drugs such as asthma medications, gastrointestinal problems, and other conditions. However, your lifestyle plays a major role in management of this condition. This lion didn't receive a treatment, but she's a role model for sound sleep. Acupuncture  and Traditional Chinese Medicine has been shown to be very effective for the treatment of insomnia. In a systematic review of over 46 randomized control studies and over 3800 patients, acupuncture had been shown to be more effective than no treatment or sham acupuncture 1 . Acupuncture and herbal therapy had also been show to be more effective than just herbal therapy alone 2 . No serious side effects were reported from any of the studies. Bio-medicine suggests that acupuncture can increase the amount of Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA), which leads to sleep quality. GABA is what’s known as a neurotransmitter inhibitor, meaning it stops the nerves cells from communicating.It’s actually of the the most common inhibitory neurotransmitters in the brain 3 . Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and Insomnia In TCM a common cause of of insomnia is due to disharmony of your heart qi/blood energy, which is also going to affect or be affected by the qi (chi) of another organ such as the spleen qi/blood energy (responsible for digestion and metabolizing),  kidney yin energy (responsible for growth and longevity), or the liver blood energy (responsible for promoting harmonious flow of qi throughout the body, also deals with emotions). By looking at your tongue, and feeling your pulse were able to get a better idea of what systems may be out of order in your body. In future posts I will go more into detail about Chinese Medicine theory on organs and meridians and how we view the human body. A good resource for learning the basics of TCM is The Sacred Lotus , which has tons of basic information on Chinese Medicine theory, herbology, etc.. Lack of sleep can really show during the day time. Other suggestions that may help with insomnia: Physical activity and exercise throughout the day – No excuses. Meditation in the morning and an hour before you get to bed, 15 minutes eat session. Counting backwards from 100 while breathing in slow and with soft breath. Avoid eating spicy foods in the evening. Bad digestion and GI problems can contribute to insomnia, so eating the right foods for your body type is important. Try drinking a small cup of chamomile in the evening. Now, go get some rest! Sources : 1, 2 Cao H, Pan X, Li H, Liu J. Acupuncture for Treatment of Insomnia: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials. J Altern Complement Med. 2009 November; 15(11): 1171–1186. 3. Anatomy and Phyisology -  National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. 2011. What Is Insomnia?.  Retrieved March 13, 2012 from http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/inso/ -  Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibution, Cheng Xinnong, 1999 More From Acupuncture and Holistic MMA Five Tips to Help Knock Out Your Back Pain Acupuncture Holistic MMA Can Acupuncture Help with Hiccups? Acupuncture and Holistic MMA Recommends Five Trends in Green Advertising for 2012 (U.S. Green Technology) Green Empire State Building for Sale (U.S. Green Technology) Ask Acupuncture and Holistic MMA To Recommend Your Posts Hi my name is Carlo and I'm a licensed acupuncturist in California with over 10 years experience in exercise and health. My martial arts background consists of over six years training in various martial art styles, and I look forward everyday to helping people discover the healing powers within themselves and around them. Connect me on Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Website Tags: acupuncture for sleep disorders , does acupuncture work for insomnia , insomnia , insomnia symptoms , insomnia treatment , sleep deprivation , sleeping disorders Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Name Email Website CAPTCHA Code * Follow @mmaacupuncture Add blog to our directory. Sign up for MMA Acupuncture's Newsletter Email Address * First Name * = required field Preferred Format HTML Text Mobile powered by MailChimp ! Tags Acupuncture anatomy Benefits of tai chi BJJ brain Chinese Martial Arts chinese medicine depression exercise Grappling happiness health Holistic Treatments Kicking Kung Fu kung fu in mma Martial Arts martial arts diet foods Mixed Martial Arts MMA MMA Fighters motivation Multiple Sclerosis muscles natural food Neurology NSAIDS Organic Foods Pain Management physiology Qi Gong Self-Defense side kick Side splits stretching StriKeforce Striking studies Tai Chi tai chi chuan Techniques traditional chinese medicine tradition martial arts walking Yoga Recent Posts Acupuncture for Insomnia Ways to Improve the Mind Body Connection What You Didn’t Know About the Liver – Function and Diseases Review of Oh Happy Days Cafe and Market in Altadena Five Tips to Help Knock Out Your Back Pain Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 September 2011 Copyright © 2012 Acupuncture Holistic MMA . All Rights Reserved. Magazine Basic theme 