
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 22:58:48 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
Expires: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 22:22:06 GMT
X-Pingback: http://www.fitnesshealtharticles.com/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 22:58:48 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Ear Infections | FitnessHealthArticles.com Dry ear-wax and why Japanese use mimikaki (ear-rakes) to remove it for their children (and themselves) Dry ear-wax and why Japanese use mimikaki (ear-rakes) to remove it for their children (and themselves) Easy Ear Wax Removal FitnessHealthArticles.com Useful articles about all aspects of health and fitness issues Search Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home Contact Us Privacy Terms Of Use Tag Archives: ear infections Home Remedies for Ear Wax Removal, Simple Yet Effective Posted on January 25, 2012 by Jeramey Thompson Reply Ear wax seems very common and nothing complicated to a lot of people. However, often this laid back attitude leads to serious cases of ignorance and neglect, where people become completely unhygienic and tend to not clean their ear wax for a very long time. The accumulated ear wax in the unclean ears then leads to severe infections, which can even affect one’s hearing ability. Then there are also some people who do clean their ears regularly, but do not do it properly enough. Therefore, it is very important for everyone to know some basic tips for ear wax removal. There are home remedies which do not need any complicated ingredients, and most of the things can actually be found in your kitchen, thus making it very convenient for you to remove ear wax at home, safely and effectively. For a full cleaning treatment, you can begin with applying around 4-5 drops of Hydrogen Peroxide on your ears. You need to do this for the coming 2-3 days regularly, ensuring that you do not miss even one day in the middle. Once 2-3 days pass by, you will realise that hard wax clots in your ears actually start to dissolve and get softer. Thus, the next step is to flush out this dissolved wax before it gets hard again, and before it starts causing problems in your ears. So you take up a bulb syringe, fill it up with warm water, and then release it in your ears. Tilt your head, and the water will run out, making your ears feel clean. Next, you take a cotton ball for each ear and then soak it in rubbing alcohol. Then you insert that in your ear, allowing it to go as deep as the ear canal. You will have to squeeze the ball a little. Again, tilt your head and it will come running out. It will help to dry the ear canal. With this whole process done once in every 20-25 days; you will be free of all kinds of ear infections. This is the safest way to maintain ear hygiene. There are many different kinds of ear drops that are available in the market, and many people would like to go in for those. While that is obviously more convenient than sitting through 2-3 days of the entire ear wax removal treatment, you must remember, that not all ear wax removal drops in the market are safe. Some may have harmful chemicals that might not reduce the infection at all, and may instead increase it. Others may even cause harm to the skin around your ear and may affect your hearing ability too. Thus, it is always good to have a check with your doctor first before you decide to use any of these market products. On a regular basis, make it a habit of cleaning your ears with ear buds, especially after you bathe. This is because after bathing with warm water, your ears are still wet and the ear wax dissolves. The wet ear wax can be easily cleaned with the ear buds. Read about Home Remedies for Ear Wax Removal . Also know useful Home Remedies for Edema . Posted in Hearing , Home Remedies | Tagged ear , ear infections , ear wax , ear wax removal , entire ear wax , hearing ability , home remedies , home remedies for ear wax removal , home remedies for ear wax removal simple yet effective , wet ear wax | Leave a reply Health Fitness News The Wellness Code” Book Soars to #1 on Amazon in Two Categories. Life Coach, … - YAHOO! Your Ultimate Guide to Health, Fitness and Nutriti […] Online Shopping Leader MyReviewsNow.Net Promotes New Official Tour de France Training Bike - Houston Chronicle fitness and other health and wellness products, is […] Vernon PAL Health and Fitness Fair - NorthJersey.com Vernon PAL Youth Leadership Council and Vernon Tow […] Powered by Related RSS Sites Exercise Bike Tips Free Low Carb Recipes Adult Dyslexia Tips Medical Malpractice Quit Smoking Tips Before you submit your article, be sure to read and follow our Terms Of Use Why have articles I submitted been deleted? Health Fitness News The Wellness Code” Book Soars to #1 on Amazon in Two Categories. Life Coach, … - YAHOO! Your Ultimate Guide to Health, Fitness and Nutriti […] Online Shopping Leader MyReviewsNow.Net Promotes New Official Tour de France Training Bike - Houston Chronicle fitness and other health and wellness products, is […] Vernon PAL Health and Fitness Fair - NorthJersey.com Vernon PAL Youth Leadership Council and Vernon Tow […] Powered by Related RSS Sites Exercise Bike Tips Free Low Carb Recipes Adult Dyslexia Tips Medical Malpractice Quit Smoking Tips Proudly powered by WordPress Dry ear-wax and why Japanese use mimikaki (ear-rakes) to remove it for their children (and themselves) Dry ear-wax and why Japanese use mimikaki (ear-rakes) to remove