
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 23:56:19 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Cache-Control: no-cache
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Preventitve - Poulsbo Dentistry Home Blog About Dr. Puhn Our Staff Our Services Exam & Diagnosis Preventative Restorative Root Canal Therapy Extractions Implant Procedures Request an Appointment Contact Survey Taking care of your teeth Most mouth woes are caused by plaque. Plaque is a sticky layer of bacteria, bits of food and other organic matter that forms on your teeth. The bacteria in plaque produces acids that cause cavities. A build up of plaque can also lead to periodontal (gum) disease which can become a serious infection. Periodontal disease can damage bone and destroy the tissues around the teeth. The oral problem of periodontal disease has been known for decades, however, new research has been focusing on the relationship between periodontal inflammatory disease and systemic diseases such as cardiovascular diabetes, respiratory disease and adverse pregnancy outcomes. The best defense against cavities and onset of periodontal disease is to remove plaque before it has a chance to build up and cause problems. Brushing removes plaque from the large surfaces of the teeth and from just under the gums. Flossing removes plaque from between your teeth. You also can use other tools to keep your mouth clean such as an electric tooth brush, interdental cleaners, oral irrigators, mouth washes and rinses. Hygiene: Maintaining good oral hygiene is one of the most important things you can do for your teeth and gums. Healthy teeth not only enable you to look and feel good, they make it possible to eat and speak properly. Because of more dental awareness and in-office treatments, more people are keeping their teeth throughout their lives. We strive to see that our patient's mouths are healthy. Gum Disease: The procedure used by the hygienist to control gum disease is called root planning and scaling. If there are calcified deposits on the roots of the teeth the hygienist needs to remove these deposits. These deposits cause inflammation and if not managed can eventually lead to tooth loss. Medical studies correlate gum disease (gingivitis) with increased risk of heart disease and stroke. As gum disease or periodontal disease increases, the risk of cardiovascular disease may increase with it. Studies suggest that inflammation of the gums may create a chronic inflammation response, not just in the mouth, but other parts of the body as well, thus promoting the higher risk of heart disease and stroke. The calculus (calcified deposits) which need to be removed are like barnacles that continually grow at the gumline and under the gums. Removing the calculus below the gumline is essential for good tooth support as well as good overall health. The hygienist often times uses local anesthesia to numb the gums and roots of the patien's teeth to ensure comfort during treatment. If the patient maintains good dental care after the procedure the progression of gum disease should be controlled and your gums will heal and become firm and pink. If gum disease is advanced a referral to a good periodontist, who specializes in the treatment of gum disease, may be made. Care for Children: Did you know that good dental care for your child starts even before your baby's first tooth erupts? Wiping your baby's gums with a soft damp cloth or gauze after feedings prevents a buildup of plaque and bacteria. When teeth do appear brush your child's teeth twice a day with a soft child's toothbrush with water only. Sugary drinks that are around the teeth for long periods of time can cause tooth decay. What matters is how often and how long teeth are exposed to decay producing acids like fruit juices and milk, and yes, even breast milk. When your child is pre-school age you can start using fluoride toothpaste but only a pea-sized amount. Children tend to swallow most of their toothpaste. Introductory Visits : When your child is around age 3, scheduling an "Introductory Visit" helps establish a comfortable relationship with Dr. Puhn, his staff and the dental office in general. Every attempt is made to make your child feel at ease and interested. Your child will experience a ride in a dental chair and lots of verbal encouragement and child appropriate instruction. At the end of the appointment every child can pick out a toy from the toy basket. When your child is ready Dr. Puhn will examine your child's teeth and an actual cleaning or prophy will be completed. Scheduling visits every six months along with good home care will help ensure that your child will stay cavity free. Sealants help protect your children's permanent teeth from decay. Sealants work by applying a thin coating to the chewing surfaces of the teeth where bacteria and other debris can collect in the deep crevices of a child's permanent molars. First molars usually come through when a child is about 6 years of age. Second molars appear at about age 12. When these permanent molars are in place children benefit from sealants which protect against decay. No tooth structure removal is necessary to apply sealants. First the tooth is cleaned and a gel is placed on the chewing surface for a short time. The tooth is then washed off and dried and the sealant is painted on the tooth. Lastly a cure light sets the sealant.Sealants are usually not visible unless you look closely and while the patient may notice a slight difference right after the procedure is done soon her or she will adjust to the sealant(s). Guards can keep your teeth looking healthy and prevent further damage by keeping your teeth in the proper alignment and placement at night while you sleep. Mouth guards are a necessary part of major contact sports to ensure teeth safety and to avoid the dangers of contact risking injury to the mouth. If you’re a patient of Dr. Puhn’s, your teeth are already beautiful; keep them that way with night guards or sports mouth guards! Bruxism is characterized by the clenching or grinding of the teeth. Most people will experience bruxism at some point in their lives and for most people the bruxism will be mild. It is usually bruxism during sleep that causes the major problems. Most people are not aware that they are bruxing or grinding their teeth while they are sleeping. Over time dental damage occurs. Bruxism can cause tooth fractures, gum recession and wear to the tops or occlusal surface of the teeth as well as TMJ or temporal mandibular joint problems. Night guards are recommended to prevent the night grinding of teeth. By taking impressions of your teeth we can provide you with a custom fit night guard which, when worn while you sleep, will protect your teeth. Exam & Diagnosis Preventative Bruxism Hygiene Gum Disease Care for Children Sealants Guards Restorative Root Canal Therapy Extractions Implant Procedures Poulsbo Dentistry | Dr. Scott Puhn | 20730 Bond Road NE, Suite 202B | Poulsbo, WA 98370-9000 | This email address is being protected from spambots. You n