Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 09 Oct 2009 15:04:40 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "2c5e3cd3f148ca1:a075e"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET

Aloe is a powerful healing herbal medicine for treating skin disorders Herbal Medicines - ONLINE Learn how Herbal Medicine and herbal remedies can help improve your life &raquo Home &raquo Herbal Meds &raquo Conditions & Ailments &raquo NewsLetter &raquo Archived Newsletters &raquo Herbal Books &raquo Contact &raquo Links &raquo SiteMap What's This? Herbal Meds Treat skin disorders
using the Herbal Medicine Aloe Are you looking for a herbal medicine to treat a skin disorder? If you have itching skin,
burns, blisters or any other skin related disorders, then herbal Aloe
can help you. Find out the origins and
uses of this powerful herbal remedy. Learn how it can treat your skin
disorders and bring relief to your skin conditions. Where does
Aloe come from? Over 500 species of Aloe are found growing worldwide. Aloe is a
succulent in the Lily family and the fleshy leaves of the Aloe plant
provide a gel that has been used since the reign of Cleopatra. Egyptian healers described the use of Aloe as far back as 1500 BC and
African hunters have long used Aloe to hide their scent from their
prey. Modern healers have used Aloe since the 1930s for various skin ailments
such as skin ulcers and cuts and abrasions. Commercial growers cultivate Aloe in the Mediterranean, the Caribbean,
Japan and the United States. What are the benefits of
aloe? Even though scientists are not exactly sure how Aloe works, they have
identified several of the active ingredients. Aloe is rich in
anti-inflammatory substances and the gel contains a gummy material
which acts as a soothing skin cream. Aloe contains a compound called bradykininase that helps to treat pain
and reduce swelling. In addition, Aloe also contains magnesium lactate
which soothes itching skin. Acemannan is a newly discovered compound found in Aloe that is being
studied for its ability to strengthen the immune system by boosting
T-lymphocyte cells. Aloe leaf juice can relieve the pain of burns and even prevent blisters
from forming. As a topical herbal medicine, Aloe gel decreases
inflammation, redness and accelerates wound healing. This herbal medicine helps in keeping the skin supple and has long been
used to relieve the itching associated with insect bites and skin
allergies. By increasing the availability of oxygen to the skin, Aloe
is a powerful herbal skin healer. Aloe gel has been used for many years as an effective herbal treatment
for sunburn, by soothing and calming the redness and inflammation
caused by over exposure to the sun. Studies have shown that Aloe gel has antiviral effects and is therefore
a natural healing product used in treating warts. Recent studies have been conducted to prove Aloe’s effectives
in treating the skin disorder psoriases. An 83 percent improvement was
noted in patients who topically applied Aloe gel 3-4 times daily. Aloe juice contains anti-inflammatory fatty acids that are helpful for
the colon, small intestine and the stomach. This herbal medicine is a
natural alkalizer that prevents over acidity which is a common cause of
indigestion. Aloe juice has also been used by herbalists as a natural digestive
tract cleanser, balancing and soothing the digestive system. Aloe Vera juice has been found by Japanese scientists to inhibit
stomach secretions and lesions; therefore this herbal plant is an
effective treatment against peptic ulcers. American scientists are conducting research into the use of Aloe Vera
juice as a treatment for people with ulcerative colitis which is a
common type of inflammatory bowel disease. What are the side
effects of aloe? Please consult your medical practitioner prior to using any herbal
medications should you be under their care. Topical applications of Aloe are very safe; however in rare cases a
mild, allergic skin reaction has been noted. Simply discontinue use if
this occurs. Never use Aloe juice if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Aloe juice can have a laxative effect if the recommended dosage is
exceeded. A form of Aloe, called Aloe latex, is a powerful laxative and
should only be used under your doctor or herbalist’s
recommendation. Aloe dilates blood vessels known as capillaries, allowing blood to get
to an injury; therefore care should be taken when using Aloe together
with blood thinning medicine such as Warfarin as it can cause the skin
to bleed easily. How do I use Aloe? Topically, Aloe gel can be applied repeatedly, especially in the case
of burns. This will also prevent painful blisters from forming. Fresh Aloe gel from a broken leaf of this herbal plant is the most
effective and economical way to topically apply the gel. For topical herbal treatments to be effective, it should contain at
least 20 percent Aloe. For internal use, Aloe juice can be taken between meals. Make sure that
the Aloe juice contains at least 98 percent Aloe and does not contain
aloin or aloe-emodin. Aloe juice can also be added to your bathwater as a soothing herbal
skin remedy by simply adding a cup or two of the Aloe juice to your
bathwater. Go back to Herbal Meds from Aloe is a powerful healing herbal medicine for treating skin disorders Herbal Meds online is for educational use only. Any and all medical problems need to be treated by a qualified health care provider
            or doctor. This information is used at your own risk and in no way is meant to replace medical
            advice. Any and all Herbal Remedies or Herbal Medicine's are used at your own risk © 2009 Herb