<http://blog.stopsmokingreviewsonline.info/?p=4905>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Being pregnant and Smoking cigarettes – Take care of Your Baby and Quit Smoking While Pregnant Quit Smoking Blog – Benefits Of Quitting Smoking Being pregnant and Smoking cigarettes – Take care of Your Baby and Quit Smoking While Pregnant Peanut butter and jelly, bacon and eggs, macaroni and cheese; what exactly are these samples of? The answer is things that go great together. Pregnanc... Peanut butter and jelly, bacon and eggs, macaroni and cheese; what exactly are these samples of? The answer is things that go great together. Pregnancy and smoking ? They certainly do not fit in that list. They are a couple of things which should never, ever go together. If you are expecting and still smoking cigarettes it is time to stop. Allow me to inform you why and how. It is bad enough that cigarette smokers who’re not expecting carry on and puff away even if they are fully aware cigarette smoking is harmful for their health, yet expecting moms who still smoke cigarettes not just subject themselves to the risks of cigarette smoking. They also put their innocent little ones in danger. What risks are we talking about here? They are numerous and can be quite serious. By far the most severe risks that being in pregnancy and smoking brings about to an unborn baby are: Preterm Birth-Smoking may greatly increase the danger of your child being delivered early, before they’re completely developed. Low birth-weight-Smoking could cause your baby to be born at a reduced birth weight bringing about medical issues. Placenta damage-Smoking damages the placenta. Because the placenta is what gives nutrients to the unborn infant, this placenta damage directly effects and harms your developing fetus. Being an expectant mother I am certain you have already developed a nurturing attachment to the child growing inside of you and you wish to safeguard them and ensure they are safe. Giving up smoking may be the single most important thing that can be done to keep your infant secure and make sure they are born healthy. You can do it with the correct type of help. Do not try to go it alone, your odds of successfully giving up smoking “cold turkey” are extremely low. You want a stop smoking method that’s specifically designed for expecting mothers. Try to look for one that’s all natural. You need to avoid using drugs or nicotine replacement therapies (like the patch) because they could be bad for your baby. You also have to have one that works quickly as time is important. A great stop smoking choice to quit smoking while pregnant is called Neuro Linguistic Programming, or NLP. It is a modern hypnotherapy technique which has proved to be highly effective. The great news about NLP? All it requires of you is to listen to an audio recording. You don’t even have to see a hypnotherapist. And it’s also organic and natural without having negative effects that can harm the baby. Pregnancy and smoking go together like cats and dogs. Actually choose to quit smoking while pregnant and get help. Pick a quitting smoking technique that is appropriate for an expecting mother. NLP absolutely will do the job. You can protect your infant by quitting smoking today. Picture what a gift this pregnancy can be, not only will it bring a wonderful child into your life, it may be the spring-board to a smoke-free existence. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. You must be logged in to post a comment. Latest Posts Electronic Cigarettes Are A New Solution To Quit Smoking Advantages Of Electronic Cigarettes Are Electronic Cigarettes Safe? The Best Way To Quit Smoking How To Find Cheap Electronic Cigarettes Research The Best Alternatives To Give Up Cigarette Smoking Copyright © 2012 blog.stopsmokingreviewsonline.info.  All Rights Reser