Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Mon, 26 Sep 2011 16:43:06 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "2c6fa15d6b7ccc1:25c2b"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 07:39:33 GMT
Connection: close

Weight Loss Surgery Centers - Lap Band, Gastric Sleeve, Gastric Bypass Let us help 
		you qualify for surgery! "Every journey worth taking 
		begins with a single step." Gastric Bypass Lap Band Contact Us Home Gastric Bypass Surgery Our Bariatric Surgeon BARIATRIC SURGERY Benefits of Gastric Bypass Surgery Candidates Risks of Gastric Bypass After Surgery Before and After Photos Qualify for Surgery PATIENT INFORMATION Insurance Coverage Insurance Guidelines Surgery for Obesity Morbid Obesity Childhood Obesity Obesity Health Risks Obesity Fact Sheet PATIENT RESOURCES BMI Calculator Weight Tables Gastric Bypass
							FAQ's Contact Us Obesity, Surgery and a Healthy Lifestyle Obesity: Fat tissue in our bodies is necessary, however when 
						there is too much body fat (when we consume more 
						calories than our body needs), the result is obesity. 
						Obesity is a chronic disease that is defined as having a 
						body mass index of 30 or above, which is about 30 pounds 
						over the ideal body weight for your height. Obesity is a 
						disease, not a sign of a person being out of control and 
						according to the American Obesity Association; obesity 
						is a serious medical disease that affects nearly one 
						third of the American population. Clinically severe 
						obesity has long-term effects and it increases ones risk 
						of developing serious health problems such as type 2 
						diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, 
						gallbladder disease and certain cancers. Obesity can also be associated with other medical 
						conditions such as shortness of breath, sleep apnea, 
						irregular menstruation or infertility, gallbladder 
						disease (gallstones), and osteoarthritis. In addition to 
						increased risk of health conditions, nearly 300,000 
						Americans die unnecessarily each year due to 
						obesity-related health problems and obese people die 
						younger than normal-weight people. Obesity and 
						obesity-related conditions are causing healthcare costs 
						to soar and costs reach approximately 100 billion 
						dollars each year. It is very clear that obesity is a 
						foremost healthcare issue for the United States. Obesity also affects us socially and psychologically. 
						Many people suffer social effects such as 
						self-consciousness and discomfort in social situations, 
						limitations in social activities because of limited 
						mobility, frustration, and discrimination. 
						Psychologically, obesity may cause depression, despair, 
						low self-esteem, and negative body image. Morbid obesity 
						prevents many people from living their lives to the 
						fullest. Morbid obesity is a chronic condition that has been 
						proven difficult to treat through diet, exercise, and 
						even physician supervised weight loss medications. 
						Bariatric surgery is a treatment for clinically severe 
						obesity. Bariatric surgery such as Gastric Bypass 
						surgery or Lap Band surgery may be the next step for 
						people who remain severely obese after trying 
						non-surgical approaches, or for people who have obesity 
						related health conditions. Treating Obesity with Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Bypass surgery is considered the most effective 
						method of weight loss and weight maintenance of all 
						surgical and medical techniques available, according to 
						the American Society for Bariatric Surgery and the 
						National Institute of Health. Gastric Bypass surgery is 
						the “gold standard” of weight loss surgery and is the 
						most frequently performed weight loss surgery in the 
						United States. Gastric Bypass surgery can help a 
						morbidly obese patient lose up to 80 percent of their 
						excess body weight. In order to qualify for Gastric Bypass surgery, a person 
						must be about 100 pounds overweight, or about 80 pounds 
						overweight with a qualifying weight-related health 
						condition. After Gastric Bypass surgery, nearly 80 
						percent of patients with high blood pressure no longer 
						required medication and over 90 percent of people with 
						non-insulin dependant type II diabetes no longer 
						required medication, either. A study of 500 patients in 
						the year 2000 showed that 96 percent of certain 
						obesity-related health conditions, including back pain, 
						sleep apnea, and depression) were improved or resolved 
						after surgery. Gastric Bypass surgery via the Roux-en-Y technique is 
						considered the best surgical treatment for morbid 
						obesity. In this procedure, stapling creates a small 15 
						to 20 cc stomach pouch. The remainder of the stomach is 
						not removed, but it is stapled and divided from the 
						stomach pouch. The outlet from this newly formed pouch 
						empties directly into the lower portion of the jejunum, 
						thus bypassing some calorie absorption. This is done by 
						dividing the small intestine just beyond the duodenum 
						for the purpose of bringing it up and constructing a 
						connection with the newly formed stomach pouch. The 
						other end is connected into the side of the Roux limb of 
						the intestine, creating the “Y” shape that gives the 
						technique its name. The procedure reduces the functional 
						portion of the patient’s stomach causing the patient to 
						feel full after eating only a small portion of food. It 
						also creates a small opening between the stomach and 
						large intestine, allowing the patient to feel full 
						longer after each meal. Gastric Bypass surgery is a medical procedure that 
						requires careful consideration. Surgery to produce 
						weight loss is a serious undertaking. Anyone thinking 
						about undergoing this type of operation should 
						understand what it involves. Gastric Bypass is not a 
						miracle cure for obesity and success is possible only 
						with maximum cooperation and commitment to behavioral 
						change and medical follow up. This cooperation and 
						commitment must be carried out for the rest of your 
						life. Diet and exercise remain essential to the 
						treatment of obesity, even for patients who choose 
						weight loss surgery. Commitment to a Healthy Lifestyle Bariatric surgery should not be taken lightly and it is 
						not considered the “easy way out”. A serious commitment 
						is required with both the Roux-En-Y Gastric Bypass and 
						the Lap Band system. Diet changes and exercise programs 
						must be implemented in order for bariatric procedures to 
						be successful. It is also imperative that you see your 
						surgeon or physician for regularly scheduled follow up 
						care. Overall, the effectiveness of bariatric surgery 
						makes it an excellent option for those who are ready to 
						make a serious commitment to losing their excess weight 
						and beginning a healthy lifestyle. Name: Lisa Surgery: Gastric 
								Bypass Before: 224 lbs After: 145 lbs Weight Loss: 79 lbs Copyright 2010. All Rights 
		Reserved. St. Anthony's H