<http://www.restaurantpage.com/blog/?p=7>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Health Benefits of Coffee | Restaurant and Food Blog Welcome to Restaurantpage.com ! This site offers links browse for restaurants, restaurant cooking, restaurant supplies, soft drinks,  wine, catering, recipe, cook jobs, wild foods & baby food. ♫ Attracting Repeat Restaurant Customers Reasons Why Organic Food Is Better ♫ Health Benefits of Coffee Coffee is the most consumed beverage in the world. No matter where you go, coffee is usually available. Yet, until recently there’s been very little research on the effects of coffee on our health. The researcher’s are waking up however. There have recently been studies completed on a variety of health benefits to drinking that simply delicious cup of coffee. Caffeine in Coffee – Good or Bad? The caffeine in coffee has often been a source of concern for many. Most people have problems sleeping when they drink coffee right before bedtime. Others will drink coffee to give them that boost of energy caffeine provides. Some even feel their heart rate increase if they drink too much coffee. Did you know there are also benefits to the caffeine found in coffee? Coffee intake ( due to the caffeine) was associated with a significantly lower risk for Alzheimer’s Disease, independently of other possible confounding variables. These results, with future prospective studies, may have a major impact on the prevention of Alzheimer’s disease. Another benefit of drinking coffee has been studied in China. Their research clinically proved the caffeine in coffee helps to prevent Parkinson’s disease. Many of us have been led to believe that caffeine is bad for us. True enough, large quantities may hurt us, but the evidence is strong for the benefits it provides. Coffee – Healthy Tonic for the Liver? Studies completed in Japan indicated that people who drink more than a cup of coffee a day are less likely to develop liver cancer than those who do not, Japanese researchers say. Coffee also helped lower the risk of cirrhosis of the liver. Chlorogenic acid present in coffee beans has been proven in studies to also reduce the risk of liver cancer. Harvard Medical School completed a study in 2004 that strongly suggest coffee has preventative qualities for Type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance. The authors found an inverse association between coffee intake and type 2 diabetes after adjustment for age, body mass index, and other risk factors. Total caffeine intake from coffee and other sources was associated with a statistically significantly lower risk for diabetes in both men and women. These data suggest that long-term coffee consumption is associated with a statistically significantly lower risk for type 2 diabetes. Coffee and Physical Fitness The amounts of water, carbohydrate and salt that athletes are advised to consume during exercise are based upon their effectiveness in preventing both fatigue as well as illness due to hyperthermia, dehydration or hyper hydration. The old issues concerning coffee and caffeine were that it acts as a diuretic, thus causing more fluid loss during activity. Studies have caused researchers to re think this point. These studies suggest that consuming caffeine does not have this effect and can even have beneficial effects on keeping the body fit. Caffeine does not improve maximal oxygen capacity directly, but could permit the athlete to train at a greater power output and/or to train longer. It has also been shown to increase speed and/or power output in simulated race conditions. These effects have been found in activities that last as little as 60 seconds or as long as 2 hours. There is less information about the effects of caffeine on strength; however, recent work suggests no effect on maximal ability, but enhanced endurance or resistance to fatigue. There is no evidence that caffeine ingestion before exercise leads to dehydration, ion imbalance, or any other adverse effects. Coffee drinking can help asthma sufferers by improving ventilator function. There is no evidence that coffee drinking is a risk for the development of cancer. For several types of cancer there is disagreement between studies but again, other aspects of lifestyle may be implicated. There is even a strong suggestion that coffee may have a protective effect against colon cancer. A possible explanation may lie in the many antioxidant substances present in coffee and which are currently subjects of active research. In some sensitive individuals, ingestion of coffee after a period of abstinence may cause a temporary rise in blood pressure but there is no hypertensive effect in the long term. Coffee made by the Scandinavian method of boiling or by the cafetiere method may cause mild elevation of plasma cholesterol concentration in some people, but instant, filter coffee, and liquid coffee extract have no such effects. Overall there is no influence of coffee drinking on heart disease risk. There is no sound scientific evidence that modest consumption of coffee has any effects on outcomes of pregnancy or on the wellbeing of the child. Bone health is not affected by coffee drinking. Adverse effects in some published studies have been attributed to aspects of lifestyle that are often shared by coffee drinkers, such as smoking and inactivity. Coffee drinking can help asthma sufferers by improving ventilator function. Research continues and must be subjected to critical scrutiny and re-evaluation. At the present time, there is no reason to forego the pleasurable experience of moderate coffee drinking for health reasons. Tags: Beverages , Drinking Coffee , Health Benefits This entry was posted on January 14, 2010 at 3:37 am and is filed under Beverages . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
													You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is currently not allowed. Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Search for: Recent Posts Site of the Month for September 2011 The Food Industry and Your Health Cast Iron Skillet Cooking Advantages Shift Planner for Restaurants Catering Services Online PEPSI is Now More Than a Soft Drink Choosing the Ideal Restaurant Location Categories Beverages Business to Business Cooking Directories & Guides Food and Related Products Food Industry Information General Restaurant Calendar February 2012 M T W T F S S « Sep 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 Archives September 2011 July 2011 May 2011 March 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 June 2010 April 2010 March 2010 January 2010 November 2009 Tags Alcoholic Drink Antique Style Baby Foods Benefits Beverages Business Catering Services Choice Cocktails Commercial Griddle Cooking Cooking Recipes Cookware Customer Drinking Drinking Coffee Energy Drink Food Food Allergies Food Business Food Industry Food Supply Ganoderma Beverages Gourmet Chocolate Health Benefits Health Food Kitchen & Cooking Safety Management Menu Holder Nutritious Food ooking Environment Organic Foods Party Planning Restaurant Restaurant Business Restaurant Equipment Restaurant Furniture Restaurant Industry Restaurant Location Restaurant Management Restaurants Soft Drink Success Successful Restaurant Vegetables Blogroll Capitol Catering Blog Catering Talk Blog Cooking Blog Restaurant Page Search Restaurant Simply Recipes Blog Wild Food Bl