<http://herbs-medicinal.com/?p=5364>; rel=shortlink

Migraine Headache Remedies Include Some Popular Herbal Teas | Natural Healing Solutions Of Medicinal Herbs Home Categories Alternative Medicine Herb Benefits Juice Botanical Herbal Diseases and symptoms Health Medications Natural remedies About Migraine Headache Remedies Include Some Popular Herbal Teas | March 25th, 2012 - 11:06 am Migraine headaches are common occurrences among many working people. A productive and energetic day at the office can suddenly come crashing to a grinding halt as this unwelcome ailment slowly sets in. People doing their daily chores find themselves resting and deferring these tasks for the following day. Migraine headaches usually manifest themselves initially through severe pain on one side of the head. The pain is often concentrated at the area behind the eye. As the attack progresses, the other side of the head is often eventually affected. Migraine headaches are typically associated with mental tension and stress. Sudden migraine headaches may be due to overworked muscles in the areas of the head and neck. The normal flow of blood decreases due to a momentary narrowing of the arteries attributed to tight muscle squeeze. The blood vessel walls are then stretched when the muscles expand, as the resultant blood pumped with each heartbeat further taxes these blood vessels, leading to further excruciating pain. Aside from pain, other typical symptoms are nausea, vomiting, irritability, stiff neck and continuous yawning. Many herbal teas and infusions are used as migraine headache remedies. These are becoming increasingly popular nowadays as more people actively seek health remedies that are based on natural ingredients and substances. Among these natural migraine headache remedies are: Feverfew tea This herbal infusion is being used extensively in Europe for the prevention of headaches, as well as a remedy. The feverfew plant contains parthenolide, which is said to inhibit the chemicals released by the brain that dilate blood vessels. Some clinical studies on feverfew tea have yielded promising results on its prospects as a long-term preventive treatment for migraine headaches. To make this tea, place a teaspoon of dried feverfew leaves in about 8 ounces of water. Boil for about 6 minutes. Take it out of the heat and let it stand for a further 10 minutes. This yields a bitter-tasting tea. Pregnant or nursing women are advised to avoid the use of feverfew tea. Ginger tea This herbal infusion has been found to contain constituents that restrain the aggregation of platelets. These constituents are also said to decrease the production of prostaglandins which causes migraine headache pains. To make this tea, place 2 teaspoons of fresh grated ginger in 2 cups of water in a pot of boiling water. Take it out of the heat and let it simmer for 5 minutes. Drink up to 3 cups of this spicy drink in a day. Kava tea Kava is an herb that’s native to the Polynesian islands of the Pacific. It is considered a sacramental brew. The active constituent of the kava herb is kavalactones. This substance is said to have a mellowing and soothing effect on the nerves and may be helpful in the relief of stress-related migraine headaches. To make kava tea, place a tablespoon of dried kava powder in a cup of boiling water. Take out of the heat, stir, and allow it to steep for 10 minutes, or until cooled to room temperature. Kava tea may be sweetened with honey if desired as it has a peppery and bitter taste at first. The standard dosage of kava tea is 1 to 3 cups per day, taken as needed. Chamomile tea Its flowers and leaves have been brewed for centuries and drank as a fragrant and flavorful tea. The chamomile herb contains bisabolol, a substance with anti-inflammatory properties that helps relax blood vessels. As such, chamomile tea is often recommended to be used when an attack of migraine headache is at its early stages. As people increasingly lead fast-paced lifestyles that involve long hours and unbelievable amounts of stress, migraine headaches are sure to continue to afflict a lot of people. That is why for many, stocking up on some of these natural migraine headache remedies at home or in the office may come in handy and may spell the difference between a productive day and a lost day. About the Author: Edwin Bartolome is an internet entrepreneur and site manager of TeaBenefits.com. Tea Health Benefits are discussed on this site. Are you interested in a particular type of tea, we tell you its healing properties. Do you have an ailment? We’ll tell you what tea may be used for its treatment. Visit our page on tea for headaches for a more comprehensive list. No related posts. Share Tags: Blood Vessel Walls , Daily Chores , Excruciating Pain , Feverfew , Feverfew Plant , Grinding Halt , Headache Remedies , Health Remedies , Herbal Infusion , Herbal Teas , Mental Tension , Migraine Headache , Migraine Headaches , Narrowing Of The Arteries , Normal Flow , Parthenolide , Preventive Treatment , Stress Headaches , Tight Muscle , Typical Symptoms « Explore The Possibility Of Legal Action With The Help Of An Experienced Propane Explosion Lawyer You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Recent Herbs Posts Migraine Headache Remedies Include Some Popular Herbal Teas Explore The Possibility Of Legal Action With The Help Of An Experienced Propane Explosion Lawyer Causes And Treatments Of Graves Disease Is There Any Herbal Remedy For Tinnitus That Actually Works Take The Amazing Benefits of Organic Food Effective Herbal Remedies for Acne – Really ? The Benefits of Alternative Medicine You Should Know Isotonic Memory Foam Mattress – The Best or Worst? Easy Way Filling Up Your Necessities Of Vitamins With Isotonic Few Tips On Eczema Treatment Naturally Concerned Herbs Articles No related posts. Recent Search how to cure pasmado Adenoid cause and remedy Eyelash mites reza bandhoo hasiat jeruk lemon Free Ovulation Calendar sample of investigatory project natural repellant cara-cara membuat tempura market for medicinal herbs herbal plants Most Search diabetes symptoms herbal plants rheumatoid arthritis herpes symptoms rheumatoid arthritis herpes pictures and symptoms ovulation calendar herpes symptoms in men diabetes symptoms swollen tonsils Any health information posted on this site is for educational purposes only. The articles have been taken from many sources of health and herbs. Herbs-medicinal.com is not to be construed as medicinal advice and not intended to replace the advice of your physician, doctor, or health-care provider. We encourage you to consult with your doctor any questions or concerns you may have