Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Transverse Myelitis Internet Club List: Re: Acupuncture Re: Acupuncture Aurore Bleck ( ABleck(AT)nas.edu ) Tue, 3 Jun 1997 13:31:38 -0400 Messages sorted by: [ date ] [ thread ] [ subject ] [ author ] Next message: Patrick Rofe: "Insurance info" Previous message: Lindstrom, Ann: "RE: Magnetic Therapy" Dear Barbara, The needles in certain spots are along the meridians that correspond to major organs (as defined by the Chinese).  Acupressure (massaging the pressure points) is a less intensive treatment of the same spots, so it is the same principle that's involved in acupuncture.  There's also a type of foot massage that works on the same spots.  I use acupressure on myself to treat sinus problems--it's one of the most effective sinus treatments I've ever used (and I have tried a lot).  Acupuncture, by the way, can be done with needles or heat, or a combination, and pressure is also applied (or specifically not applied) to some points before the insertion of a needle, depending on the condition. There have been some double blind tests in which patients were treated by qualified acupuncturists, with some of the patients getting treatment in the normal points as dictated by their symptoms and the other group of patients getting treatment in places that had been preselected by the study design as being non-acupuncture points, places where needles would not have a beneficial effect and would have no effect at all.  The study results showed that the placebo effect was not the manner in which the acupuncture was effective.  Patients treated in the real acupuncture points had improvement in their condition, and patients in the non-acupuncture group did not show the same improvement.  I also saw a medical program on pregnancy that said a study on acupuncture showed that pregnant women who had acupuncture during the pregnancy had an easier delivery. Acupuncture may release endorphins when used as a treatment for pain, but acupuncture is also used successfully to treat high blood pressure, asthma, arthritis, addiction, and lots of other chronic problems where it effects improvement in the actual condition and is not just used for pain control. So an explanation of acupuncture that only looks at it as a method of pain control is incomplete. Aurore Next message: Patrick Rofe: "Insurance in