
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 11:42:19 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: frontend=298bb72c04d0870765c56650d1a179da; expires=Tue, 14-Feb-2012 14:42:19 GMT; path=/; domain=www.herbalextractsplus.com; httponly
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Herbal Sedative Herbal Remedy from Herbal Extracts Plus JavaScript seem to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Herbal Extracts Plus Search: Search My Account My Cart Checkout Log In Home Single Herbs and Extracts Proprietary Herbal Remedies Synergistic Combinations Blog Wholesale Home / Synergistic Combinations / Herbal Sedative Herbal Sedative In today's fast-paced world, the time constraints and pressures of daily living often inhibit our ability to get a sound, good night's sleep. That is why Herbal Extracts Plus has created Herbal Sedative, a unique blend of all-natural medicinal extracts, in a non-addictive sleep aid and natural means to support the body in its efforts to combat this all-too-common problem. The superior herbal supplements in the formula - Valerian and Passion Flower - are two of the finest and best-known botanical sedatives that not only support relaxation, but also work with the body's natural resources to relieve the anxiety and stress that can cause insomnia and even possibly lead to more serious health problems. If you are troubled with too little or restless sleep - or you are unable to shut out the day's problems and unwind, Herbal Sedative may be just the support you need to help you settle down, relax and drop off to a deep, restorative sleep that will let you awaken refreshed - and all without the groggy feelings or addictive side effects that can accompany synthetic pharmaceutical "sleeping pills." If you need a good night's sleep or you need to relax, then you really may need Herbal Sedative . Ordering Information: Herbal Sedative C-1480 60 Capsules $11.98 Add to Cart 90 Capsules $15.99 Add to Cart 360 Capsules $56.14 Add to Cart 600 Capsules $106.62 Add to Cart Valerian Root is often called Nature's Tranquilizer . For centuries it has been used in alternative medicine to support and regulate the nervous system and  assist  the body's own natural resources to relieve tension, irritability, anxiety, hysteria, nervous exhaustion and stress. Considered a botanical sedative, Valerian Root acts as an herbal sleep aid that works with the body to ease temporary insomnia, helping to provide a sound sleep without the morning-after grogginess frequently associated with prescription drugs (such as Valium , etc.), and perhaps more importantly, Valerian also does not lead to dependence or addiction when used. Passion Flower is considered a very gentle (but effective) herbal sedative that supports a depressant effect on the central nervous system. The alkaloids and flavonoids are believed to be effective and work as a plant-based, non-addictive sedative, which promotes restful, sound sleep, particularly in cases of nervous insomnia. In 1985, Passion Flower received official approval of the German Commission E  for insomnia and as an anxiolytic.  It is reputed to be one of nature's best natural tranquilizers and has been used for centuries as a reliable means to manage nervous, menopausal and premenstrual tension, irritability, fatigue and tension headaches. The exact mechanism of action is unknown. Activation of GABA receptors by maltol and gamma-pyrone derivatives may mediate Passionflower's anxiolytic and sedative properties. It is said to gently support the body's own restorative resources to shift moods, alter perception and aid concentration, and it is said that the alkaloids may act in a similar way as MAO inhibitors, which may be of some help in cases of depression. In Italy, Passion Flower is used to treat hyperactive children. Purpose of Formulation: The premium plant extracts in Herbal Sedative are well-known, botanical sedatives that support the body's efforts to promote relaxation, calm the nerves, reduce stress and induce a deep, sound, refreshing sleep. Herbal Sedative also acts as an herbal anxiety support. Ingredients: A mixture of 60% Valerian Root (0.8% Valerenic Acids) and 40% Passion Flower 4:1. Our products contain 100% pure plant-based/natural materials using no fillers, grains, yeast, sugars, binders, excipients, starches or synthetic materials. Recommended Dosage: Take two (2) capsules, two (2) to three (3) times each day with water at mealtimes. Contraindications: This herbal remedy for insomnia is not recommended if you are pregnant, or if you suffer from low blood pressure or hypoglycemia.  Used at the recommended dosage listed above, this product is safe.  However, since both herbs may cause sleepiness, this product should not be used before driving or operating machinery.  Do not use if you take MAO inhibiting antidepressant drugs, and it should not be taken with other prescription sedatives or sedative herbs or alcohol, as it increases their sedative effects. Capsule Information: Our Herbal Sedative supplements are encapsulated in 100% Gluten-free, Vegetable Cellulose, Certified Kosher , size "00" Capsules. (click here for size comparison) Each capsule contains approximately 600 mgs." Special Note: If any medical terms on our website are confusing or unknown, we have compiled a small dictionary of terms for you. Click here for our Definitions, and go directly to the word in question for further information. Disclaimer: The information presented herein by Herbal Extracts Plus is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult with your own health care provider. My Cart You have no items in your shopping cart. Newsletter Sign Up for Our Newsletter: Subscribe HERBAL EXTRACTS PLUS is proud to inform our readers about our ongoing participation in a shared scientific project with the University of Oklahoma and its Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. Click here to read about our continuing, joint research project! (888) 909-8889 8am - 5pm EST, M-F. Contact Us Customer Service Contact Us FAQ - Questions Privacy Policy Returns Shipping Policy Herbal Extracts Plus About Us Blog Contact Us Printable Order Form Testimonials Information Ayurvedic Medicine Definitions Essential Oils Herbal History Herbal Preparations More Info Amino Acids Before You Buy... Chinese Medicine Herbal Extracts Naturopathic Medicine Suggested Reading Follow Us Facebook Twitter © Copyright 2011 Herbal Extracts Plus. All rights reserved. Home | Privacy Polic