
The Way Up  Newsletter : Melatonin The Way 
                    Up Newsletter Vol. 
                    7 4/15/99 Are you shuffling or tap 
               dancing Through life ----or????? NAMASTE 
               & WELCOME TO THE WAY UP MONTHLY NEWSLETTER! ARE YOUR DAYS BRIGHT 
               ENOUGH? It is often surprising when my patients bring in articles from 
               the popular press which are replete with misinformation & instill 
               fear. Some of the confused information relates to melatonin. So 
               let's look at it. Proper production of melatonin is related to both light & dark. 
               For optimum melatonin levels you need at least 30-60 minutes of 
               outdoor light daily, preferably in the a.m. & you need a very dark 
               room at night. Indoor lighting is about 100 lux & outdoors is about 
               50,000 lux. If there is no way for you to be outside or you live 
               in a dark gloomy climate, full spectrum indoor light can help.. 
               Proper light & dark can improve melatonin production by 50-200%. 
               If you cannot darken your bedroom, use a sleep mask. WHAT ELSE CAUSES LOW 
               MELATONIN? Melatonin declines rapidly with aging & levels are generally minimal 
               by age 70.. Caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, beta-blocker medications, 
               some anti-depressants, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, & chronic 
               stress deplete melatonin. Chronic stress causes the production 
               of too much cortisol which lowers melatonin. Melatonin can be stress 
               protective by keeping down the hyperproduction of cortisol (the 
               stress hormone) Since melatonin can help control excess cortisol 
               production those with low adrenal function & low cortisol need 
               to be careful about taking too much melatonin. It can make them 
               even more tired. In summary, too little or too much melatonin will 
               impair stress tolerance. WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS 
               OF LOW MELATONIN? Low melatonin is evidenced by a history of light, anxious, restless 
               sleep, & poor dream recall. Low melatonin levels are found in those 
               with Seasonal Affective Disorder. Reversed levels are found in 
               those who are bipolar. They have low levels at night & high levels 
               in the morning, the reverse of what it should be. The anxiety of 
               PMS or anxiety in general can be associated with low melatonin 
               levels. When I test for melatonin I find low or reversed levels 
               in most of those I test no matter what age they are. Granted, they 
               are being tested because abnormality is suspected. Schizophrenics 
               also tend to have low melatonin. Is this caused by their medications 
               of does it have other implications? Those who suicide in the night 
               have lower levels of melatonin than those dying in the night from 
               other causes. This should be no surprise because low trytophan 
               levels are associated with a higher incidence of suicide & tryptophan 
               is a precursor to melatonin. Low melatonin levels are also found 
               in those with breast & prostate cancer, decreased blood flow in 
               the heart, Alzheimers & other dementias. WHAT ARE OTHER BENEFITS 
               OF MELATONIN? We all know about melatonin's benefits for jet lag. The protocol 
      for this can be found at http://www.thewayup.com. Use the search function 
      to find melatonin to read what to dofor jet lag. It does work! Melatonin 
      is one of the most powerful anti-oxidants in the brain & can be helpful 
      to gradually slow chronic degenerative brain diseases such as Parkinsons. 
      It generally protects against toxin induced free radical damage to any part 
      of the body. It can help with pain reduction. It improves the quality of 
      sleep. It helps to restore more useful metabolism & to reset the metabolic 
      clock disarranged by aging. It has a specific positive effect in repairing 
      capillaries (your smallest blood vessels) Melatonin helps to decrease total 
      & the "bad" LDL cholesterol. It is an immune enhancer & modulator. In cell 
      cultures it slows HIV replication & inhibits breast cancer cell growth. 
      Those with rheumatoid arthritis or autimmune diseases should use melatonin 
      only in very low doses. It extends the life span in animal studies WHAT HELPS MAKE MORE 
               MELATONIN? Other than proper light/dark, the nutrients tryptophan, 5-hydroxytryptophan, 
               pyridoxal-5-phosphate, calcium, magnesium, & niacinamide support 
               melatonin levels. IS MELATONIN SAFE? Melatonin is non toxic as demonstrated by animal & human studies 
               & use. In one experiment a man took 6,600 mg daily for 35 days 
               with no adverse effects. The usual dose is 0.25-3 mg. Though non-toxic, 
               melatonin can have some side effects if you take a dose which is 
               too high for you. If you decrease the dose, the side effects should 
               disappear. The most common side effects would be grogginess, hangover, 
               or headache in the a.m. or intense dreaming. Doses over 10 mg daily 
               can decrease ovarian activity & suppress sex hormone function. 
               However these higher doses also decrease the activity of the estrogen 
               binding receptors in the breast & may be protective against breast 
               cancer & a useful adjunct in treating breast cancer. It is arguable whether melatonin is technically a hormone, though 
               it has been called such. I won't go into the technical arguments 
               here. However, it is an endogenous modulator & effector substance 
               which helps to regulate the hormones, your metabolism, & your body's 
               biorhythms, as well as numerous other functions. It interacts positively 
               with other hormones so that lower doses may be required. Melatonin 
               helps with the conversion of the inactive thyroid (T4) to the active 
               thyroid (T3). If you are on thyroid & start to regularly take melatonin 
               you may need to adjust your thyroid dosage. WHAT IS THE BEST FORM 
               TO USE? Generally the sublingual form is preferable when used to help with 
               sleep or anxiety. It is faster acting, better absorbed & doesn't 
               remain in the system as long so there is less likelihood of a morning 
               hangover. However I use the regular form for jet lag & when I am 
               treating someone with very low evening & midnight levels. Then 
               I give a regular melatonin at 7-8pm & sublingual at bedtime. HOW CAN YOU TEST MELATONIN? Saliva testing is the current most avaible test. Several labs offer 
               it. I use the one provided by Great Smokies Diagnostic Lab. If 
               you want such a test look at the labs in the links section at http://www.thewayup.com .You 
               can go to their web site. Then you can tell your Dr what you want 
               & where to get it. TIMES ARE CHANGING--AT 
               LAST Having been in the Alternative Medicine field long before it was 
               popular & accepted, it does my heart good to open a traditional 
               publication,"The Journal Of Depressive Disorders" (Second Quarter 
               l998) & to find the first few pages relating to natural treatments. 
               Data was pooled from 23 randomized trials which compared the benefits 
               of St John's Wort with placebo ( 15 studies) & with standard antidepressants 
               (8 studies). Outpatients with mild to moderately severe depression 
               responded as well to St John's Wort, 300 mg three times daily as 
               to antidepressants. For more comprehensive information on this 
               herbal treament I refer you to Dr Hyla Cass's book, "ST. JOHN'S 
               WORT: Natures Blues Buster". We do have an Amazon.com search on 
               our web site so you can look for any book. Her book is also in 
               our list of recommended books. The second article in this journal 
               revealed a study in which Omega-3 Fatty Acid levels were 40% lower 
               in the red blood cell membranes of depressive patients than in 
               controls. This was particularly so with docosahexanoic acid. (see 
               Cerebral DHA at http://www.thewayup.com for details on this) Similiar 
               findings have been noted in schizophrenics. Also smoking lowers 
               omega-3 fatty acids & schizophrenics tend to be heavy smokers. Goodbye for now! Priscilla Slagle M.D. "To see the preciousness of all things, we must bring our full 
               attention to life" ----Jack Kornfield, "A Path With Heart" Home | Quick 
                    Order | Product 
                    Catalog We can be reached by E-Mail or Phone: E-Mail