
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Sun, 08 Apr 2012 12:12:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache

Canadian Health&Care Mall - Antibiotics Your Cart: Items: 0 | Total: $0.00 USD GBP CAD EUR AUD CHF Men's Health Viagra Cialis Viagra Super Active+ Levitra Viagra Professional Viagra Super Force Cialis Super Active+ Cialis Professional Cialis Soft Tabs Viagra Soft Tabs Propecia Super Active ED Pack VPXL Maxaman View all products Pain Relief Tramadol Celebrex Toradol View all products Antibiotics Amoxicillin Zithromax View all products Women's Health Female Pink Viagra Female Cialis Nymphomax View all products Antidepressants Prozac Wellbutrin SR View all products Mental Health/Epilepsy Seroquel Aricept View all products Anxiety/Sleep Aid SleepWell Buspar View all products Blood Pressure/Heart Lipitor Lasix Benicar Cozaar View all products Cholesterol Zetia Zocor View all products Anti-allergic/Asthma Ventolin Advair View all products Weight Loss Acomplia Lipothin Mega Hoodia View all products Skin Care Retin-A Accutane View all products Eye Care Lumigan View all products Stomach Nexium Prevacid View all products Antidiabetic Actos View all products Antiviral Zovirax Valtrex View all products Cancer Arimidex View all products Stop Smoking Zyban View all products General Health Human Growth Hormone Prednisolone Synthroid View all products Vitamins/Herbal Supplements 100% Pure Okinawan Coral Calcium View all products Pets Petcam (Metacam) Oral Suspension Heartz (Small Dogs) View all products Antibiotics Amoxicillin as low as $0.52 Amoxicillin is an effective penicillin-like antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections, including: gonorrhea, middle ear infections, skin infections, upper and lower respiratory tract infections, and infections of the genital and urinary tract. More Info Zithromax as low as $0.58 Zithromax is one of the world's best-selling antibiotics used for treating a wide variety of bacterial infections including acute bacterial sinusitis, pneumonia, pharyngitis/tonsillitis, skin infections, sexually transmitted infectious diseases such as nongonococcal urethritis and cervicitis. More Info Cipro as low as $0.35 Cipro is a broad-spectrum antibiotic recommended for people suffering from respiratory pathogens causing infections such as acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) as well as for those suffering from urinary tract infections, some STDs, skin and soft tissue infections, septicemia, legionellosis, and anthrax. More Info Flagyl as low as $0.40 Flagyl is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria and other organisms in different parts of the body. More Info Bactrim as low as $0.40 Bactrim is a combination medicine used in the treatment of a variety of bacterial infections. More Info Cephalexin as low as $0.24 Cephalexin is a cephalosporin antibiotic used to treat urinary tract infections, respiratory tract infections, and skin and soft tissue infections. More Info Tetracycline as low as $0.40 Tetracycline is a broad-spectrum polyketide antibiotic used against many bacterial infections. More Info Erythromycin as low as $0.40 Erythromycin is a popular broad-spectrum macrolide antibiotic. More Info Vibramycin as low as $0.42 Vibramycin is a broad-spectrum tetracycline antibiotic. More Info Levaquin as low as $0.95 Levaquin is a third-generation fluoroquinolone antibiotic with a broad spectrum of action, effective for treating a wide range of bacterial infections including atypical pneumonia. More Info Ampicillin as low as $0.30 Ampicillin is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. More Info Quinine as low as $0.53 Quinine is primarily used to treat or prevent malaria. More Info Elimite as low as $12.25 Elimite Cream is used for the treatment of certain parasite infestations, including infestations with scabies and lice. More Info Stromectol as low as $1.85 Stromectol is an anthelmintic used for the treatment of certain parasitic infections. More Info Augmentin as low as $1.59 Augmentin is an antibacterial combination with a wide spectrum of action. It is used to treat many different infections caused by bacteria, such as sinusitis, pneumonia, ear infections, bronchitis, urinary tract infections, and infections of the skin. It is first FDA-approved antibiotic for both acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) and community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). More Info Keflex as low as $0.72 Keflex is a cephalosporin antibiotic effective for the treatment of many different types of bacterial infections such as bronchitis, tonsillitis, ear infections, skin infections, bone infections and urinary tract infections. More Info Lotrisone as low as $7.50 Lotrisone cream is used for the treatment of fungal infections. More Info Macrobid as low as $1.07 Macrobid is an antibiotic used for treating and preventing urinary tract infections caused by certain bacteria. Macrobid works by damaging bacterial DNA. More Info Tindamax as low as $0.28 Tindamax is used to treat certain infections including trichomoniasis, giardiasis, intestinal amebiasis, amebic liver abscess, and bacterial vaginosis in nonpregnant women. More Info Vermox as low as $0.55 Vermox is used to treat infestations by worms including pinworms, roundworms, tapeworms, hookworms, and whipworms. More Info Clindamycin Gel as low as $8.95 Clindamycin Gel is a topical lincomycin antibiotic. More Info Biaxin as low as $1.49 Biaxin is a macrolide antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections including pharyngitis, tonsillitis, sinusitis, bronchitis, pneumonia, skin infections, and, in HIV and AIDS patients to prevent, and to treat, disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC). In addition, it is sometimes used to treat Legionellosis. More Info Gentamicin Eye Drops as low as $6.75 Gentamicin Eye Drops are used for the treatment of bacterial infections of the eye. More Info Metronidazole Gel as low as $8.95 Metronidazole gel is a topical antibiotic used for the treatment of rosacea. More Info Ketoconazole Cream as low as $12.00 Ketoconazole Cream is used for the treatment of skin infections including athlete's foot, jock itch, ringworm, and certain kinds of dandruff. More Info Griseofulvin as low as $0.72 Griseofulvin is an antifungal medicine used for the treatment of fungal infections of the skin and nails in both humans and animals. More Info Bactroban as low as $19.95 Bactroban is used to treat bacterial skin infections. More Info Avelox as low as $7.15 Avelox is an antibiotic used in adults for the treatment of infections of the lungs, airways and sinuses. It can also be used to treat severe and complicated skin and skin structure infections. More Info Ofloxacin as low as $0.45 Ofloxacin is a synthetic broad-spectrum antibiotic used for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. More Info Amikacin as low as $1.95 Amikacin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used for the treatment of bacterial infections. More Info Albenza as low as $1.15 Albenza is used to treat a variety of worm infestations. More Info Minocycline as low as $2.15 Minocycline is an antibiotic used for treating certain bacterial infections. More Info Suprax as low as $3.45 Suprax is an oral third generation cephalosporin antibiotic. It is used for the treatment of a wide variety of bacterial infections including respiratory tract infections, middle ear infections, skin infections, urinary tract infections and tonsillitis. More Info Lamisil as low as $3.35 Lamisil is the #1 prescribed treatment for nail fungus infection worldwide, highly effective for the treatment of toenail or fingernail fungal infections. More Info Vantin as low as $0.60 Vantin is an oral third generation cephalosporin antibiotic used for treating mild to moderate bacterial infections. It treats many kinds of infections, including those of the respiratory tract, skin, and ears (pneumonia, otitis media, pharyngitis, sinusitis). More Info Sporanox as low as $3.88 Sporanox is used for the treatment of certain fungal infections. More Info Nizoral as low as $2.55 Nizoral is an antifungal medication. Nizoral is used for the treatment of a variety of fungal infections including candidiasis, chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, oral thrush, candiduria, and dandruff or seborrhoeic dermatitis. More Info Pyrantel Pamoate as low as $0.35 Pyrantel Pamoate is used for the treatment of worm infestations. More Info Fusidic Acid as low as $9.95 Fusidic Acid is a topical antibiotic. More Info Noroxin as low as $0.30 Noroxin is used in the treatment of certain bacterial infections. More Info Ceftin as low as $1.98 Ceftin is an antibiotic used for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. More Info Lamisil Cream as low as $9.50 Lamisil Cream is an antifungal medicine used for the treatment of fungal skin infections. More Info Furazolidone as low as $0.32 Furazolidone is an antibiotic used for the treatment of certain bacterial infections such as infectious diarrhoea and enteritis. More Info Clofazimine as low as $0.25 Clofazimine is used for the treatment of leprosy. More Info Chloroquine as low as $0.82 Chloroquine is used for the prevention and treatment of malaria. More Info Zyvox as low as $8.50 Zyvox is a synthetic antibiotic of the oxazolidinone class used for the treatment of serious infections. More Info Cefadroxil as low as $0.75 Cefadroxil is a cephalosporin antibiotic used for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. More Info Omnicef as low as $3.55 Omnicef is a popular broad-spectrum third generation cephalosporin antibiotic. More Info Chloramphenicol as low as $0.65 Chloramphenicol is a broad-spectrum antibiotic used for the treatment of many bacterial infections. More Info Gentamicin as low as $3.65 Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections. More Info Septilin as low as $10.50 Septilin is a natural medication helping to combat infections and boosting immune response and protection. More Info Declomycin as low as $0.72 Declomycin is a tetracycline antibiotic used against certain bacterial infections. More Info Cefotaxime as low as $5.75 Cefotaxime is an antibiotic used for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. More Info Cefaclor as low as $2.88 Cefaclor is a second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic used for treating bacterial infections. It is a broad spectrum antibiotic effective for the treatment of otitis media, lower respiratory tract infections including pneumonia, pharyngitis and tonsillitis, biliary-tract infections, peritonitis and urinary tract infections, skin and skin structure infections. More Info Isoniazid as low as $0.42 Isoniazid is a medicine used for the treatment and prevention of tuberculosis. More Info Cleocin as low as $6.11 Cleocin is a lincomycin antibiotic used for treating serious infections caused by certain bacteria. Cleocin kills sensitive bacteria by stopping the production of essential proteins needed by the bacteria to survive. More Info Rulide as low as $1.18 Rulide is an antibiotic used against a wide variety of bacterial infections. More Info Neggram as low as $0.68 Neggram is an antibiotic used for the treatment of certain bacterial infections. More Info Meronem IV as low as $99.95 Meronem is an intravenous antibiotic used in the treatment of severe bacterial infections. More Info Pruflox as low as $4.95 Pruflox is an antibiotic used for the for treatment of various infections. More Info Trecator SC as low as $1.58 Trecator SC is used in the treatment of tuberculosis. More Info Vancomycin as low as $8.50 Vancomycin is an antibiotic used to treat colitis (inflammation of the intestine). More Info VIEW LICENSE CHCM Ltd is licensed by College of Pharmacists of Ontario OUR ADDRESS: Main Office: 186 Brock Street, Kingston, ON, Canada WE SHIP WORLDWIDE: TO ALL COUNTRIES AND DESTINATIONS, FEEL FREE TO ORDER PAYMENT METHODS: Delivery | Anti-Spam Policy | Report Spam | Unsubscribe | Secure and Confidential ©