Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

FirstHealth of Andover - Shonishin Pediatric Acupuncture Massage Your browser does not support script Shonishin An Option for 
                            Pediatric Care ... Non-Needle, Non-Invasive, Painless Acupuncture 
                            Massage for Children Shonishin (shon=little, 
                            ni=children, shin= needle) pediatric acupuncture 
                            is a non-needle , 
                            non-invasive Japanese form of acupuncture massage 
                            designed specifically for the pediatric population. 
                            It is typically used on babies and children between 
                            the ages of 0-12 years old. In Japan parents 
                            regularly bring their children for Shonishin 
                            treatment of many common childhood illnesses as well 
                            as for mont hly “maintenance” visits to maintain 
                            health and improve growth and development. Shonishin 
                            treatments involve the use of a variety of rounded 
                            or blunt instruments which are used to stimulate 
                            acupuncture channels. Younger children can get Shonishin, while older and more mature children may 
                            opt to use very fine needles. Shonishin is used to 
                            treat a wide variety of problems, including: Failure to thrive 
                              syndrome Weak constitution Colic, excessive 
                              night crying, temper tantrums Indigestion, GERD, 
                              constipation, and diarrhea Night terrors Attention deficit 
                              hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) Allergies, asthma, 
                              and colds Eczema and hives Ear infections Bedwetting Stuttering Cerebral palsy Spina bifida The specifics of the 
                            treatment (frequency, dosage, strength) depend on 
                            the practitioner, the age, and condition of the 
                            child, among other factors. Duration of treatments for children 
                            vary according to the age of the child and the 
                            condition being addressed. It’s particularly important that the 
                            practitioner develops a touch (and a heart) that a 
                            child responds to! The key to successful Shonishin treatment is “less 
                            is better.” The beauty of Shonishin is its 
                            simplicity, gentleness, and effectiveness. - Jason Henson, Lic.Ac., MAOM Pediatric Wellness Initiative ACUPUNCTURE ARTICLES Videos It’s My Favorite Part of My Week: Acupuncture: It Changed My Life Walking Angels: Staff at FirstHealth of Andover I Feel Like Myself Again It's Just Wonderful It Changed My Whole Life One Man’s Journey to Health: Overcoming Chronic Issues With Coordinated Care What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience Talented and Caring Staff Under One Roof What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience 100% Cooperation To Find Solutions Acupuncture: It Makes You Feel Wonderful Acupuncture For Health: I Keep Going Treatments For Low Back Pain: Success Through Acupuncture and Exercises Help With Acute Low Back Pain It Doesn't Hurt At All Getting Through A Difficult Time I Really Feel It's A Great Place I Can Breathe: Acupuncture assists Chronic Sinusitis I'm Walking in Heels!!! Acupuncture helps joint pain Overcome Back Pain Melt Away Stress Low Back Pain Chronic Pain Staying Active! Workplace Stress Audio Acupuncture on the air! Lisa Farwell of  FirstHealth of Andover does on-air interview and acupuncture demonstration to  radio talk show host for WCAP in Lowell. Drive time fun! Articles 10 Year 
        Anniversary at FH Allergies 
        and Acupuncture Allergies, Sinus Headaches, and Acupuncture Alpha-Stim ® Stress Buster Alternative 
        Treatments Arthritis Arthritis & TCM Auriculotherapy Auricular 
        Testimonial Back Pain Balance Method BioElectric 
        Flow Bladder 
        Infections Cancer Care Research Carpal Tunnel Constipation Dental Pain Depression Diabetes Diarrhea Dysmenorrhea Endometriosis Essential Oils Energy Channels Facelift ... 
        Naturally! Facial 
        Acupuncture's Top 5 Facial 
        "Midlife" Acupuncture Facial 
        Rejuvenation Female 
        Infertility I Female 
        Infertility: Hope Female 
        Infertility II Female 
        Infertility III Female Infertility Story Line Female Infertility: Overcoming Female Infertility: A Program of Hope Female 
        Infertility Role Female 
        Infertility: Top Ten Reasons Why Acupuncture Is A Must ! Fibromyalgia First Visit Gua Sha Technique High Blood Pressure High Blood 
        Pressure Research Headaches HIV/AIDS How Acupuncture 
        Works IBS Insurance Low Back Pain Low Back Pain 
        "Team Approach" Magnets: 
        Baylor Study Magnets: 
        Benefits Magnets: History Magnets: Post 
        Polio Magnets: Research Acceptance Magnets: Testimonial Male 
        Infertility Menopause Menstrual Cycle Morning 
        Sickness Myocardial Ischemia National 
        Health Statistic Report Needles Neuro Imaging NIH Survey on CAM Osteoarthritis Overview of 
        Acupuncture Pain 
        Management for Active Boomers Pain Relief Painful 
        Menstruation Pediatric Top 10 Pediatric 
        Acupuncture: Shonishin Pediatric 
        Asthma Pediatric 
        Asthma Tools Pediatric 
        Eczema Pediatric Oriental 
        Medicine Pediatric 
        Holistic Care with OM PMS Post Partum Raindrop 
        Technique Sciatica and Golfer's 
        Back Science and 
        Humanity: Eagle Tribune News Article Scientific 
        Mechanism Shingles Sinus Relief Sinus 
        Relief, Breathe Easier Sinusitis Sports Injuries Start 
        Sleeping (Again) Program Stop Smoking 
        for Life! Program Studies in 
        Success Tennis Elbow Testimonial: 
        Breech Pregnancy Testimonial: Bursitis Testimonial: Compartment Syndrome Testimonial: Fibromyalgia Testimonial: Foot Injury Testimonial: Interstitial Cystitis Testimonial: Knee and Foot Pain Testimonial: 
        Labor Testimonial: 
        Low Back Pain Testimonial: 
        Nausea Testimonial: Non Hodgkins Testimonial: Painful Menses Testimonial: Sports Injury Wellness Is a 
        Team Sport What 
        Acupuncture Treats What Is Acupuncture! Research, 
									Discounts, Special Events JOIN THE CLINIC CLUB TODAY!! As a 
				club member, you will receive special discount coupons, health 
				and research bulletins, and special event updates to our 
				FirstHealth team of speakers. DIRECTIONS | MISSION STATEMENT | TERMS OF USE | PATIENT PRIVACY | CONTACT US | HOME © 2010  FirstHealthofAndover™.  All Rights 
		Reserved.  One Dundee Park, Andover, MA 01810    978 - 474 - 9994 Serving 
        S