Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Mold FAQ 1-800-339-7123 LIVE CHAT MY ACCOUNT HELP LOG IN CART (0) ALL PRODUCTS Allergy Bedding Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Air Quality Control Air Purifiers Dehumidifiers Humidifiers Portable ACs Home Care Cleaning Products Eco Products Furnace Filters Pet Allergy Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Personal Care Asthma Treatment Child Allergy Food Allergy Masks Nasal Irrigation Personal Care Sinus Care AIR PURIFIERS By Brand 3M Filtrete Airgle Alen AllerAir Amaircare Austin Air Blueair Germ Guardian AP Honeywell Hunter IQAir NQ Whirlpool By Need Allergies & Asthma MCS & Gas Pet Dander & Odor Small / Portable UV / Pathogen Air Purifier Filters ALLERGY BEDDING By Brand Allergy Armor Coyuchi Moonlight Slumber Mulberry West Ogallala PrimaLoft Pure-Rest Royal-Pedic Snoozer Vellux By Need Blankets Comforters Duvet Covers Mattresses Mattress Covers Mattress Pads Mattress Protectors Pillows Pillow Covers VACUUM CLEANERS By Brand Dyson Electrolux FilterStream Miele SEBO By Need Canister Vacuums Handheld & Cordless Stick Vacuums Upright Vacuums Vacuum Attachments DEHUMIDIFIERS By Brand Alen Aprilaire Danby Dri-Eaz Ebac Eva-Dry Soleus By Need Basement Dehumidifiers Crawlspace Dehumidifiers Portable Dehumidifiers Restoration Dehumidifiers HUMIDIFIERS By Brand Air-O-Swiss Enviracaire Germ Guardian Swizz Fred Vornado By Type Cool Mist Humidifiers Small Humidifiers Ultrasonic Humidifiers Warm Mist Humidifiers DUST MITES By Type Air Purifiers Box Spring Covers Carpet Cleaning Dehumidifiers Dust Cloths & Mops Dust Mite Bedding Laundry Mattress Covers Pillow Covers Upholstery Products Vacuum Cleaners STEAM CLEANERS By Brand Gruene Steam Mop Ladybug Reliable Vapamore By Type Handheld Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Vapor Steam Cleaners Allergy Relief Air Purifiers Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Vacuum Cleaners Dehumidifiers Steam Cleaners Portable Air Conditioners Dust Mite Allergy Humidifiers Furnace Filters Nasal Irrigation Asthma Treatment Mattresses Masks Child Allergy Food Allergy Personal Care Pet Allergy Cleaning Products Eco Products AchooAllergy.com » Allergy Relief Learning Center » Mold FAQ Mold FAQ What is mold? Molds are neither plants nor animals. They are microscopic fungi, related to mushrooms, yeast, and mildewand they can be found everywhere. Fungi use enzymes to 
			digest food and reproductive cells called spores to reproduce. Molds play an important role in the decomposition of leaves, wood, and other dead plant 
			matter. Mold puts the "blue" in bleu cheese, and mold is the original source of penicillin, one of the earliest and most widely used naturally-occurring 
			antibiotics. Unfortunately, mold is also one of the most common allergens on the planet. Where does mold grow? Mold spores need moisture to grow. Molds can grow on wood, ceilings, wallpaper, paint, carpet, sheet rock, and insulation, and they use their powerful enzymes 
			to dissolve home materials in the same way that they dissolve decaying plant matter. An environment with high humidity (high levels of moisture in the air) 
			sets the stage for extreme mold growth and thereby poses a risk to your health. Kitchens, bathrooms, garages, basements, and crawlspaces are notorious for mold 
			growth. If any part of your home has experienced water damage, then you'll certainly find mold there. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 
			one-third to one-half of all U.S. buildings have areas damp enough for mold growth. Even though indoor humidity is generally lower in the winter, indoor mold allergy may be more prevalent during the winter in some homes due to tight, energy-efficient seals.
			Mold is pervasive outdoors as well, and depending on their location, many people suffer from seasonal mold allergies. Is exposure to mold dangerous? Mold growth can not only lead to structural damage to your home (like sagging floors), but it can also adversely affect your health. You can be exposed to 
			mold by touching moldy materials, eating moldy foods, and breathing in microscopic mold spores in the air. You can inhale over a half million spores per 
			minute without even knowing it. Mold allergy symptoms may include skin rash, runny nose, irritated eyes, cough, congestion, and aggravation of asthma. A 1999 Mayo Clinic study found that allergic fungal sinusitis (AFS) was diagnosed in 93% of cases of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), a condition that affects an 
			estimated 37 million Americans. According to a 2005 study, exposure to mold in damp homes can double the risk of asthma development in children. Most health problems caused by molds are related to allergic reactions; however, molds can also invade the body as agents of infection. Allergic bronchopulmonary 
			aspergillosis is a serious lung disease similar to pneumonia in which mold colonizes and grows in asthmatic mucus within the lungs. People with chronic lung 
			diseases and compromised immune systems are more prone to fungal pulmonary infections. Which kinds of mold are allergenic? Not all molds are allergenic. As with pollen, certain mold spores are allergenic because they are small enough to float in the air and evade the protective 
			mechanisms of the respiratory system. The most common allergenic, indoor molds include Alternaria, Aspergillus, Chaetomium, Cladosporium, Fusarium, Mucor, 
			Penicillium, and Stachybotrys. What is toxic mold? First of all, "toxic mold" is a bit of a misnomer. Mold itself is not toxic; however, some toxigenic molds ("toxic molds") produce poisons called mycotoxins, which
			 can cause fatigue, nausea, headaches, eye irritation, and respiratory problems. Stachybotrys mold, also known as black mold, has been known to cause fatal lung 
			 bleeding in infants when combined with environmental cigarette smoke. Toxigenic molds present the all same health problems as other molds, including allergy symptoms in sensitive individuals. Additionally, in some cases, highly 
			toxigenic molds like Stachybotrys and Chaetomium have been blamed for fatigue, nausea, headaches, pulmonary hemorrhage, chronic bronchitis, multiple sclerosis, 
			lupus, cancer, fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis, learning disabilities, memory loss, and death. Since they can cause neurological damage, mycotoxins are also neurotoxins, and they have allegedly been used as biological weapons. Some people believe that 
			biological warfare involving mycotoxins contributed to the Gulf War Syndrome, the unexplained illness that affected many soldiers who fought in the Gulf War. 
			Severe mycotoxicosis (mycotoxin poisoning) results in total exhaustion, weakness, loss of muscular coordination, shock, and death. Like any mold, toxigenic molds thrive in warm, damp conditions. Houses that have been flooded represent the perfect environment for toxic mold growth. How do I know if I have a mold problem? If you see small, white, thread-like growths or clusters of small, black dots on the walls of your bathroom or basement, or if you smell a musty odor, then you 
			most likely have a mold problem. Some mold, however, is hidden and cannot be detected by our senses. Symptoms of mold allergy include runny nose, itchy nose, sneezing, fatigue, headache, congestion, sniffling, sore throat, itch eyes, and watery eyes. In 
			children, mold allergy typically leads to recurrent respiratory infections. How do I treat my mold allergy? If you're allergic to mold, the best method of treatment is to avoid contact with mold spores. Wear an allergy 
			relief mask when working outdoors, and take measures to control mold growth inside your home. You can also talk to your allergist about pharmaceutical and 
			immunotherapy treatment options. How can I control the mold growth in my home? In practical terms, just as you cannot kill every single dust mite in your home, you cannot get rid of every single mold spore, but with environmental 
			control, you can get rid of your allergy symptoms. Repair any leaks or problems leading to water build-up in your home immediately, and remove all materials that have been damaged by water (this includes wood, 
			wall paper, carpet, etc.). Keep exterior surfaces of your home properly sealed, and avoid piling wood or leaves near your home, as they collect moisture. Scour 
			sinks and tubs at least once a month, and wash out garbage receptacles frequently. Getting rid of indoor plants can also reduce the number of mold spores in 
			the air. Make sure your home is adequately ventilated. Hidden mold often grows inside HVAC systems. An allergy 
			relief vent filter will trap the mold before it reaches you. A HEPA air purifier will remove a minimum of 99.97% of all mold spores in your home, and 
			a HEPA filtered vacuum cleaner will suck up microscopic mold spores 
			deep in your carpet so that you can dispose of them. Monitor the humidity in your home with a hygrometer, or humidity gauge . Keep your 
			home's humidity between 40 and 50 percent. Most importantly, use a dehumidifier to remove excess 
			moisture from the air and control humidity. Polyurethane and rubber foams, commonly used in bedding materials, are especially prone to fungus invasion. If you have polyurethane or rubber foam bedding, 
			consider purchasing allergy relief bedding , which is specifically designed to block out allergens. Use diluted bleach or the versatile, odorless M-1 House Wash or Vital Oxide to clean up visible mold growth, and 
			use M-1 Sure Cote as a sealant to prevent future mold growth. How should I clean up toxic mold? The act of cleaning mold can increase the airborne spore level by ten-thousand times, which can result in severe illness and actually spread mold growth if 
			done improperly. Such high levels of airborne mold spores warrant protective clothing, including gloves, goggles, and a respirator. If you suspect you have 
			toxic mold in your home, then you should consider hiring a professional mold remediation expert to clean up the mold and safely dispose of it. What is a mold count? Similar to the pollen count, a mold count tells us the number of mold spores counted in a standard volume of air over a 24-hour period at a given time 
			and place. If you're allergic to mold, stay indoors as much as possible when the mold count is high 
			and use MoldZyme to control mold in your home. 10 Years Online Same Day Shipping Low Price Guarantee Authorized Retailer Friendly Product Experts 60 Day Return Policy Pay No Sales Tax 1/30/12 Achooallergy.com has long been my go-to source for air purifiers and dehumidifiers. Never has been anything short of excellent. More Testimonials Live Chat now! Order Hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Product Experts Available Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm EST Sat-Sun 10am-5pm EST Customer Service Mon-Fri 9am-5pm EST Store Hours Mon-Sat 10am-5pm EST Call Us at
        1-800-339-7123 View Cart AchooAllergy.com Making you healthier and happier through allergy relief On our website, you will find the widest selection of allergy products and the very latest allergy and asthma information.  For more than a decade, our mission has been to provide you with the best prices and an excellent shopping experience. Sign Up To Receive Our Newsletter Read Our Blog Visit Our Learning Center Join The Conversation AchooAllergy.com About Us Our Core Values In the News Contact Us Careers Request a Catalog Receive Our Newsletter Request a Fabric Sample Physician Services Become an Affiliate Site Map Customer Service Shopping Cart Account Log-in Shipping Return Policy Returns Form Special Discounts Corporate Purchase Orders Government Purchase Orders Medical Reimbursement Form User Agreement Privacy Policy More Info What's New Popular Products Top 5 HEPA Air Purifiers Learning Center Clearance Coupons & Sales Gift Certificates Allergist Referrals Marketers Vendors Buying Guides Air Purifier Buying Guide Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide Allergy Bedding Buying Guide Pillow Buying Guide Miele Vacuum Buying Guide Dehumidifier Buying Guide Humidifier Buying Guide Royal-Pedic Buying Guide Ogallala Buying Guide Furnace Filters Buying Guide AllerAir Buying Guide Masks Buying Guide Solution Guides Dust Mites Mold Sinus Seasonal Allergy Pet Allergy Asthma MCS Food Allergy AchooAllergy.com&reg 3411 Pierce Drive Atlanta, GA 30341 © 2000 - 2012 AchooAllergy.com, All Rights Reserved *Free 