
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 29 Mar 2012 16:15:31 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.finishbackpain.com/xmlrpc.php
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Back Pain | Back Pain Relief | Finishbackpain.com The Back Pain Blog Home Back Pain Relief Tips On Back Pain Relief Written by admin on June 21st, 2011 . Posted in Back Pain Relief A number of remedies are available for back pain relief . Doctors generally start patients off on simple therapies like back strengthening exercises and physiotherapy. Patients may also visit nature therapists for natural pain relief cures. Though exercises and natural pain relief cures have some success rate, severe problems may require more radical medical treatment. In fact in certain severe cases surgery will be recommended to provide relief from back pain . Acupuncture, acupressure and reflexology are natural therapies used for pain relief. The former uses needles while the latter are based on applying pressure and manipulation. Capsaicin creams are the latest in natural pain relief medication. They contain Capsaicin, a naturally occurring substance in chili peppers that works as an analgesic to reduce pain. Of late, natural therapists have been recommending vitamin D therapy. It is believed that a deficiency of this vitamin may cause pains especially in the back. Similarly, vitamin B 12 is also used to cure back pain though the evidence is inconclusive. Willow bark is a ‘natural’ pain medication prescribed for lower back pain . Yoga is considered to be an extremely good option as it relaxes and strengthens the muscles in the back and the abdomen. There is no denying that weak back and abdomen muscles are mostly responsible for lower back pain and also for upper back pain . Homeopathic medication is an alternative therapy that claims to be able to relieve sciatic pain and to provide sciatica pain relief and to cure sciatica. Patients suffering arthritis pain generally visit the chiropractor who helps by manipulating the painful joints. Ingestion of linseed is also considered a remedy for arthritic pain and massaging the painful back with linseed oil is said to provide relief from pain. Pain killers are the first line of treatment for all pains including back pains. Traditional medication includes aspirin and non-aspirin pain killers. The latter work best for relief of arthritis pain. Back pain exercises are prescribed in cases when the doctor detects that pain is generally due to lack of exercise, weak muscles, bad posture, using badly designed work stations and work seats. Yoga is emphasized as are walking, and swimming. Aqua aerobics is also considered to be a good way of exercising to get relief from back problems. Pregnancy back pain is also relieved with improved posture and exercise. Common sense tips like bending the knees while lifting heavy objects off the ground need to be practiced to prevent back pain from becoming chronic. Muscle back pain is generally relieved with gentle massage and the application of back pain medicine or analgesic creams. Hot moist packs and sometimes cold packs for sports injuries provide relief from pain. Sore muscles and ligament that have been overused respond well to warm soaks and gentle back rubs. Rest is also recommended for back pain . Home remedies and simple therapies are the first line of treatment. In case of persistent and increasing pain, it is best to consult the doctor. Continue Reading No Comments Relief From Sciatica Written by admin on June 21st, 2011 . Posted in Back Pain Relief Relief From Sciatica Sciatica pain is caused by pressure on the radicular nerve which forms part of the sciatic nerve. A disc that has become misaligned from the spinal structure begins to press on the group of nerves that form the sciatic nerve. The term sciatica is used too frequently and rather loosely to describe back or leg pain but true sciatica or radiculopathy is not so simple. Sciatica pain is a symptom of Sciatica, which in turn is a symptom of an underlying condition. Sciatica is not caused by injury or trauma; rather it is a developmental condition of wear and tear on the structure of the lower spine. Sciatica pain is caused by inflammation as well as pressure on the nerve root. Sciatica pain relief involves relieving both conditions through Sciatica treatment. Non-surgical treatment of sciatica consists of a combination of therapies including alternative treatments, stretching and gentle exercises. The aim of treatment is to relieve sciatica pain as well as to prevent a recurrence of the condition. Sciatica pain and inflammation must be reduced before any sciatica treatment can be administered. Doctors will prescribe sciatica pain relief medication in the initial stages of treatment. Pain medication may belong to the group of acetaminophen. Though this group of pain killers is effective in quelling pain, the anti-inflammatory effect is not so effective. To deal more effectively with pain and reduce inflammation, doctors often prescribe pain medication from the group called NSAIDs. These are generally aspirin based and may have the desired effect. In severe cases, oral steroids or opioids may be prescribed under strict supervision. Alternative pain medications include the use of homeopathic medication. Patients have reported amazing results from the administration of homeopathy for sciatica pain relief. However, the verdict is inconclusive as to the efficacy of the medication. In addition, skeptics claim that homeopathic medication is more of a pain reliever not a sciatica relief or cure. To cure sciatica pain, doctors may use Non-surgical Spinal Decompression, a kind of computer controlled hydraulic traction. It allows the doctor to manipulate the spinal column in order to realign the herniated disc and free the nerve from compression. Aside from being non-invasive, it is a drug-free alternative remedy. However, the effectiveness and long term benefits of the procedure are yet to be established. Physical Therapy is used to treat disorders and ailments of the musculoskeletal system like sciatica. Physical therapists use traction, manipulation, electrical impulses and other devices to improve mobility and flexibility and reduce sciatica pain. In case of surgery, physical therapy is used as a recovery procedure. Other manipulation therapies include chiropractic manipulation, acupressure and reflexology. Mind Sciences like Rieki are also used as alternative therapies for sciatica pain relief. Stretching exercises also help alleviate sciatica pain. In cases where reconstruction of the spinal column may be required, spinal surgery may be the only alternative. It involves physically repairing the damaged portion to lift the pressure off of the nerve that is being compressed and causing sciatica. Continue Reading No Comments Natural Back Pain Relief Written by admin on June 21st, 2011 . Posted in Back Pain Relief Pain is one of the leading causes for loss of productivity in any society. Pain can be distressing in the physical, emotional and psychological sense, to the extent that it can destabilize and drive a person to suicide. In order to overcome pain there is a growing demand for making opioids and morphine more readily available for pain management. It has also led to the demand for allowing death with dignity or euthanasia. Pain sufferers will seek pain relief anywhere. Therefore, pain medication, over-the-counter (OTC) or prescription based, is probably the highest selling group of medications in the world. Pain itself is not an ailment. Rather it is the symptom of an ailment or underlying cause. Doctors use pain as an indicative symptom to understand what ails the patient. No matter what the diagnosis, the doctor needs to first provide pain relief before he can get to the root of the pain and attain patient compliance. Natural pain relief is fast gaining in popularity as pain medication gains notoriety due to the after effects and damage it can do with long time use. Gastric ulcers are just one of the possible side effects of pain relief medication. Dependence on pain medication is also a factor that induces pain sufferers to seek alternatives in pan management. Some of the natural pain relief remedies include alternative medication like homeopathic medicines, natural herbs and alternative pain relief techniques. Deep breathing is an age old natural pain relief remedy. It is used widely for managing labor pain during natural child birth. It requires the patient to learn to breathe in synchronization with the pain spasms, and develop self-control in riding out the painful period. Meditation, prayer and the use of amulets are probably the oldest natural pain relief remedy. The patient is encouraged to pray and meditate to strengthen his own inner resources to overcome the pain. A variation involves a faith healer praying over the sufferer and administering potions at regular intervals. Massage is a home remedy for natural pain relief. Those suffering headaches, back pain or other pains are massaged with healing anointments of oils and balms and also spices to take away the pain. Healing massages are followed by applying heat or cold to the affected part of the body. For example, hot stones on the back or cold compresses on the forehead. Mind Sciences like Reiki are used as natural pain relief. Such therapies involve using the power of the mind to ‘touch’ the body part where the pain originates, and enable the ailing body part to release the negative energy that it is holding on to, thus resulting in relief from pain. Hypnosis employs the power of suggestion to banish pain. Manipulation therapies include chiropractic techniques, reflexology and acupressure. The practitioner exerts pressure, manipulates the limbs and muscles in practiced ways that release tension and stress and other pain causing elements to train the body to become more pliable and thus let go off the pain. Continue Reading No Comments Natural Pain Relief Written by admin on June 21st, 2011 . Posted in Back Pain Relief Pain can be debilitating and distressing in the physical, emotional and psychological sense. The pain of pain has led to the demand for legalizing the use and easy availability of opioids and morphine. It has also led to the demand for allowing death with dignity or euthanasia. A person suffering from pain will seek pain relief anywhere he finds it, sometimes even in suicide. Pain medication, over-the-counter (OTC) or prescription based, is probably the highest selling group of medications in the world. Pain itself is not an ailment. Rather it is the symptom of an ailment or underlying cause. The causes of pain are too numerous to list, and doctors use pain as an indicative symptom to understand what ails the patient. No matter what the diagnosis, the doctor needs to first deal with pain relief before he can get to the root of the pain. Natural pain relief is fast gaining in popularity as people begin to distrust pain medication, and the bad publicity regarding the after effects of long time use of pain relief medication. Some of the natural pain relief remedies include alternative medication like homeopathic medicines, natural herbs and alternative pain relief techniques. Deep breathing is an age old natural pain relief remedy. It is used widely for managing labor pain during natural child birth. It requires the patient to learn to breathe in synchronization with the pain spasms, and develop self-control in riding out the painful period. Meditation, prayer and the use of amulets are probably the oldest natural pain relief remedy. The patient is encouraged to pray and meditate to strengthen his own inner resources to overcome the pain. A variation involves a faith healer to pray for the sufferer and administer healing through touch and administration of curative water or other consumable item. Massage is a home remedy for natural pain relief. Those suffering headaches, back pain or other pains are massaged with healing anointments of oils and balms and also spices to take away the pain. Healing massages are followed by applying heat or cold to the affected part of the body. For example, hot stones on the back or cold compresses on the forehead. Mind Sciences like Reiki are used as natural pain relief. Such therapies involve using the power of the mind to ‘touch’ the body part where the pain originates, and enable the ailing body part to release the negative energy that it is holding on to, thus resulting in relief from pain. Hypnosis employs the power of suggestion to get the patient to use his own inner resources to banish the pain. Manipulation therapies are natural pain relief remedies that include chiropractic techniques, reflexology and acupressure. The practitioner exerts pressure, manipulates the limbs and muscles in practiced ways that release tension and stress and other pain causing elements to train the body to become more pliable and thus let go off the pain. Continue Reading No Comments Sciatica Relief Written by admin on June 21st, 2011 . Posted in Back Pain Relief Sciatica is caused by a disc that has become misaligned from the spinal structure and begins to exert pressure on the radicular nerve which forms part of the sciatic nerve. The term sciatica is used too frequently and rather loosely to talk about pain in the back and leg but true sciatica or radiculopathy is a condition that is quite different. Sciatica can be debilitating and distressing. However, most sufferers find relief within a few weeks or a few months without resorting to surgical procedures. Sciatica is an ailment that is in turn a symptom of an underlying condition. It is not caused by injury or trauma; rather it is a developmental condition of wear and tear on the structure of the lower spine. Sciatica is caused by inflammation as well as pressure on the nerve root. Sciatica relief involves relieving both conditions and Sciatica treatment may be non-surgical or surgical. Non-surgical treatment of sciatica consists of a combination of therapies including alternative treatments, stretches and gentle exercises. The aim of treatment is to relieve the painful condition as well as to prevent a recurrence of the condition. The condition demands the reduction of pain and inflammation before any other treatment can be administered. Therefore, doctors will prescribe pain medication in the initial stages of treatment. Pain medication may belong to the group of acetaminophen. Though this group of pain killers is effective in quelling pain, the anti-inflammatory effect is not so effective. To deal more effectively with pain and reduce inflammation, doctors often prescribe pain medication from the group called NSAIDs. These are generally aspirin based and may have the desired effect. In severe cases, oral steroids or opioids may be prescribed under strict supervision. Alternative pain medications include the use of homeopathic medication. Patients have reported amazing results from the administration of homeopathy. However, the verdict is inconclusive as to the efficacy of the medication. In addition, skeptics claim that homeopathic medication is more of a pain reliever not a sciatica relief or cure. Non-surgical Spinal Decompression is a kind of hydraulic traction that is controlled by the computer. The purpose is to allow the doctor to manipulate the spinal column without surgery in order to realign the herniated disc and free the nerve from compression. Aside from being non-invasive, it is a drug free alternative remedy. However, the effectiveness and long term benefits of the procedure are yet to be established. Physical Therapy is used to treat disorders and ailments of the musculoskeletal system like sciatica. The physical therapists use traction, manipulation, electrical impulses and other devices to improve mobility and flexibility without surgery or as a recovery procedure after surgery. Other manipulation therapies include chiropractic manipulation, acupressure and reflexology. Mind Sciences like Rieki are also used as alternative therapies for sciatica relief. In cases where reconstruction of the spinal column may be required, spinal surgery may be the only alternative. The procedure involves physically repairing the damaged portion to lift the pressure off of the nerve that is being compressed and causing sciatica. Sciatica is caused by a disc that has become misaligned from the spinal structure and begins to exert pressure on the radicular nerve which forms part of the sciatic nerve . The term sciatica is used too frequently and rather loosely to talk about pain in the back and leg but true sciatica or radiculopathy is a condition that is quite different. Sciatica can be debilitating and distressing. However, most sufferers find relief within a few weeks or a few months without resorting to surgical procedures. Sciatica is an ailment that is in turn a symptom of an underlying condition. It is not caused by injury or trauma; rather it is a developmental condition of wear and tear on the structure of the lower spine . Sciatica is caused by inflammation as well as pressure on the nerve root. Sciatica relief involves relieving both conditions and Sciatica treatment may be non-surgical or surgical. Non-surgical treatment of sciatica consists of a combination of therapies including alternative treatments, stretches and gentle exercises. The aim of treatment is to relieve the painful condition as well as to prevent a recurrence of the condition. The condition demands the reduction of pain and inflammation before any other treatment can be administered. Therefore, doctors will prescribe pain medication in the initial stages of treatment. Pain medication may belong to the group of acetaminophen . Though this group of pain killers is effective in quelling pain, the anti-inflammatory effect is not so effective. To deal more effectively with pain and reduce inflammation, doctors often prescribe pain medication from the group called NSAIDs . These are generally aspirin based and may have the desired effect. In severe cases, oral steroids or opioids may be prescribed under strict supervision. Alternative pain medications include the use of homeopathic medication . Patients have reported amazing results from the administration of homeopathy . However, the verdict is inconclusive as to the efficacy of the medication. In addition, skeptics claim that homeopathic medication is more of a pain reliever not a sciatica relief or cure. Non-surgical Spinal Decompression is a kind of hydraulic traction that is controlled by the computer. The purpose is to allow the doctor to manipulate the spinal column without surgery in order to realign the herniated disc and free the nerve from compression. Aside from being non-invasive, it is a drug free alternative remedy. However, the effectiveness and long term benefits of the procedure are yet to be established. Physical Therapy is used to treat disorders and ailments of the musculoskeletal system like sciatica . The physical therapists use traction , manipulation , electrical impulses and other devices to improve mobility and flexibility without surgery or as a recovery procedure after surgery. Other manipulation therapies include chiropractic manipulation, acupressure and reflexology . Mind Sciences like Rieki are also used as alternative therapies for sciatica relief . In cases where reconstruction of the spinal column may be required, spinal surgery may be the only alternative. The procedure involves physically repairing the damaged portion to lift the pressure off of the nerve that is being compressed and causing sciatica . Continue Reading No Comments 1 2 » Last Categories Arthritis Back Pain Back pain exercises Back Pain Medicine Back Pain pregnancy Back Pain Relief Kidney Pain Lower Back Pain Back Pain Resources Back Pain – NHS Choices Back pain – Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Non-specific Lower Back Pain in Adults | Health | Patient UK Body Blog Too Much Time Sitting Increases your Risk of Heart Disease June 13, 2011 Chantal Donnelly Posture Perfect: Factors that affect your posture. May 11, 2011 Chantal Donnelly How to create that “vacation state of mind” everyday to manage stress and fuel your creativity. January 26, 2011 Chantal Donnelly Prevent wrist pain while exercising with WAGs. January 3, 2011 Chantal Donnelly Joint Friendly Exercise Routine Featured in Best Health Magazine December 14, 2010 Chantal Donnelly Read feed Back Pain | Arthritis | Hypnotherapy Karachi | Back Pain Exercises | Back Pain Medicine | Back Pain Pregnancy | Kidney Pain | Lower Back Pain | Terms and Conditions | P