
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 02:24:39 GMT
Server: Jetty(6.1.25)
Expires: Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Set-Cookie: view_tracker=712;Path=/;Expires=Tue, 12-Mar-2013 02:24:39 GMT
Connection: close

Low Back Pain and Sciatica Causes | FoundHealth Sign In Sign Up Help Contact Us Find Home Health Challenges Treatments Contributors About Us Blog Low Back Pain and Sciatica What is it? Overview Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Prevention Resources View All 38 Treatments Medicine Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acetaminophen Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Analgesics Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Disk Replacement Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Diskectomy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Laminectomy (Spinal Decompression) Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Muscle Relaxants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and NSAIDs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Nucleoplasty Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Spinal Fusion Herbs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Boswellia Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Cayenne Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chondroitin Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Comfrey Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Devil's Claw Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Ginger Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Proteolytic Enzymes Low Back Pain and Sciatica and St. John's Wort Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Turmeric Low Back Pain and Sciatica and White Willow Diet Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Glucosamine Body Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acupuncture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Alexander Technique Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Balneotherapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chiropractic Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Exercise Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Hatha Yoga Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Losing Weight Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Magnet therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Massage Therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Osteopathic Manipulation Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Physical Therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Prolotherapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Resting Mind Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and biofeedback Spirit Answers FoundHealth will send you weekly updates on new content in this area. You can opt out at any time. The number to the right of the Follow button shows how many people are currently following this topic. Low Back Pain and Sciatica > Low Back Pain and Sciatica Causes Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Click Wheel to discover your Treatment options Sign up to receive your FREE toolkit from Dr. Mark Hyman Tune your body now! Subscribe Now! We never spam or sell your e-mail People Who Read This Also Read... Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Losing Weight Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Resting Want Answers? Ask Question FoundHealth on Facebook FoundHealth on Twitter Ask Low Back Pain and Sciatica Causes Written by FoundHealth , ritasharma . Risk Factors | References | Treatments Ask Risk Factors A risk factor is something that increases your likelihood of getting a disease or condition. It is possible to develop low back pain or sciatica with or without the risk factors listed below.  However, the more risk factors you have, the greater your likelihood of developing low back pain or sciatica. If you have a number of risk factors, ask your doctor what you can do to reduce your risk. Some back pain treatments can be helpful in preventing the onset of low back pain. Risk factors include: Sedentary Job or Lifestyle Muscles that support the back can become weak with lack of exercise. Occupation Work that requires the following motions puts additional stress on the back: Heavy lifting Bending or twisting Exposure to vibrations, such as riding in a car or operating heavy machinery Participating in Strenuous or Contact Sports Injuries from contact sports or falls can result in back pain. Cigarette Smoking Smoking may contribute to degeneration of the discs in the spine. Obesity Maintenance of good weight is important for your overall health. While scientific evidence is inconclusive as to how much obesity contributes to back pain in general, extra pounds can increase pressure on the spinal muscles and disks. Improper Lifting Techniques Lifting objects using your back muscles instead of the stronger muscles in your legs increases your risk of back injury. Age As you grow older, the discs in your back begin to lose water content and degenerate, increasing the risk of disc problems and back pain, especially after age 40. However, even with some disc degeneration seen on MRI or x-rays , most people do not have back pain. Ask References References: Conn's Current Therapy 2001 . 53rd edition. W.B. Saunders Company; 2001. Freedman MK. Saulino MF. Overton EA. Holding MY. Kornbluth ID. Interventions in chronic pain management. 5. Approaches to medication and lifestyle in chronic pain syndromes. Archives of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation. 89(3 Suppl 1):S56-60, 2008 Mar. Leboeuf-Yde C. Body weight and low back pain. A systematic literature review of 56 journal articles reporting on 65 epidemiologic studies. Spine. 25(2):226-37, 2000 Jan 15. Pain.           National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke website. Available at:
http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/chronic pain/detail chronic_pain.htm#Spine
.         Accessed October 27, 2008. Textbook of Primary Care Medicine . 3rd edition. Mosby, Inc.; 2001. Click Here to See All 38 Treatments for Low Back Pain and Sciatica FoundHealth has 38 treatments for Low Back Pain and Sciatica! See all Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment options and start building your care plan today. Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Disk Replacement Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Spinal Fusion Low Back Pain and Sciatica and NSAIDs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Ginger Low Back Pain and Sciatica and St. John's Wort Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chondroitin Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Glucosamine Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acupuncture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chiropractic Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and biofeedback Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment: Spirit Share 0 Comments No one has made any comments yet.  Be the first! Your Comment Preview Post Comment Preview Post Comment Link to Existing article Search Home | About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy © 2012
 FoundHealth, Inc. All rights reserved. FoundHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Receive weekly updates on topics of your interest. Share your experiences on treatments that you have tried or prescribed. Ask or Answer a question within our community. Create a FoundHealth Contributor profile to highlight your health expertise. As a welcome gift, we will send you the complete e-book Give Yourself a Biologic Tune-Up by Dr. Mark Hyman . Already have an account? Sign In ! Email Address * We promise that we will not spam or share your information. Password * At least 6 characters Confirm Password * Enter code shown * I agree to the FoundHealth Terms o