
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 06:36:12 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.drtodds.com/foot-care-blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Dr. Todd's Foot Care Blog   » Swollen Feet & Ankles Home | Foot Care Blog | Contact Us Shopping Cart New Arrivals Shop by Condition Shop by Brand On Sale You are currently browsing the archives for the Swollen Feet & Ankles category. Archives July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 March 2011 February 2011 December 2010 September 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 October 2009 September 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 Categories Ankle Pain (2) Arch Pain (1) Athlete's Foot (1) Ball of Foot Pain (2) Morton's Neuroma (1) Blisters (1) Bunions (1) Corns & Calluses (1) Diabetes (3) Diabetic Foot Care (2) Foot Care (1) Fungal Toenails (2) Hammertoes (1) Heel Pain (3) Dry, Cracked Heels (1) Haglund's Deformity (1) Heel Spur (1) Ingrown Toenails (2) Neuropathy (1) Orthopedic Shoes (2) Shin Splints (1) Swelling/Edema (2) Swollen Feet & Ankles (5) Venous Insufficiency (1) Archive for the ‘Swollen Feet & Ankles’ Category Support Hose Saturday, July 3rd, 2010 Support hose deliver a squeezing to the leg that is tightest at the feet & ankles and gradually decreases up the leg, this is known as gradient compression. This compression is measured in mmHg (millimeters of mercury) and provides two main benefits. Compression reduces and helps prevent swelling Helps the blood flow more quickly up the leg toward the heart Support hose (also known as compression stockings) range from light compression (generally 8-15mmHg) to firm compression (generally 30-40mmHg). Below are some of the indications for using compression hosiery: Tired, Aching Legs Standing or sitting for long periods of time can cause blood to pool at the ankles and have a hard time returning causing legs to ache and feel tired. 8-15mmHg compression stockings give a gentle squeeze at the ankles and up the leg to get your blood flowing back toward the heart. Helps relieve the tired, aching feeling in your legs. Swelling/Edema Enlarged ankles/calves/feet. Painless swelling may be caused from medications, injury, vein problems, heart problems or other reasons. Prolonged swelling or painful swelling of the foot or leg should not be ignored and your physician should always be consulted. Mild swelling is often managed with 15-20mmHg of compression. Moderate or severe swelling may require higher compression and your physician should be consulted. Varicose Veins Varicose veins can be mild to severe. They are caused from pooling of blood in a damaged vein. Symptoms include bulging veins, aching and discomfort in the leg, heaviness of the leg and/or inflammation of superficial veins. 20-30 mmHg is the most commonly used level of compression for varicose veins. The compression level that is best for you will depend on the severity of your symptoms and you should consult your physician before wearing support hosiery with of compression 20 mmHg and greater. Venous Insufficiency Damaged valves in the veins can cause blood to pool in the leg and lead to swelling and pain. This condition is called chronic venous insufficiency which can lead to skin damage and leg ulcers. Symptoms include varicose veins, daily swelling of the leg, skin color changes, especially around and above the ankles, and fragile skin that easily breaks down. Compression of 30-40mmHg (generally knee length) is the most commonly used to manage this condition. Consult your physician before wearing any compression 20 mmHG and greater. Tags: Compression Hose , edema , hosiery , Leg Swelling , support hose , Support Stockings , swollen ankles , Swollen feet Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » What are Support Hose? Wednesday, March 3rd, 2010 Support hose (also known as compression stockings) are designed to deliver a squeezing to the leg that is greatest at the foot and ankle. The degree of squeezing or compression gradually decreases up the leg – this is called gradient compression and is measured in mmHg (millimeters of mercury). Support hose provide two main benefits. Compression reduces and helps prevent swelling, also called edema. And compression helps the blood to flow more quickly up the leg toward the heart. Please consult your physician, podiatrist or health care specialist before purchasing support hose, especially for compression of 20mmHg or greater. Support hose range from light compression (generally 8-15mmHg) to firm compression (generally 30-40mmHg). Common Indications (there are other indications as well, please consult your physician): Tired, Aching Legs – Standing or sitting for long periods of time can cause blood to pool at the ankles and have a hard time returning causing legs to ache and feel tired. 8-15mmHg compression stockings give a gentle squeeze at the ankles and up the leg to get your blood flowing back toward the heart. Helps relieve the tired, aching feeling in your legs. Swelling/Edema – Enlarged ankles/calves/feet. Painless swelling may be caused from medications, injury, vein problems, heart problems or other reasons. Prolonged swelling or painful swelling of the foot or leg should not be ignored and your physician should always be consulted. Mild swelling is often managed with 15-20mmHg of compression. Moderate or severe swelling may require higher compression and your physician should be consulted. Varicose Veins – Varicose veins can be mild to severe. They are caused from pooling of blood in a damaged vein. Symptoms include bulging veins, aching and discomfort in the leg, heaviness of the leg and/or inflammation of superficial veins. 20-30 mmHg is the most commonly used level of compression for varicose veins. The compression level that is best for you will depend on the severity of your symptoms and you should consult your physician before wearing compression 20 mmHg and greater. Venous Insufficiency - Damaged valves in the veins can cause blood to pool in the leg and lead to swelling and pain. This condition is called chronic venous insufficiency which can lead to skin damage and leg ulcers. Symptoms include varicose veins, daily swelling of the leg, skin color changes, especially around and above the ankles, and fragile skin that easily breaks down. Compression of 30-40mmHg (generally knee length) is the most commonly used to manage this condition. Consult your physician before wearing any compression 20 mmHg and greater. Tags: Compression Hose , Compression Stockings , Compressions Hosiery , edema , Leg Swelling , support socks , Support Stockings , swollen ankles , Swollen feet , Varicose Veins , Venous Insufficiency Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » DVT Sunday, October 4th, 2009 Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which a blood clot (known as a thrombus) forms in a vein that is deep inside the body.  A complication of DVT, pulmonary embolism (PE), can occur when a blood clot breaks loose and moves into the lungs, where it blocks circulation to these vital organs, creating a life-threatening condition.  With early treatment, people with DVT can reduce their chances of developing a life threatening pulmonary embolism to less than one percent. Risk Factors : Previous DVT or family history of DVT Immobility, such as bed rest or sitting for long periods of time in a car or plane Recent surgery Above the age of 40 Hormone therapy or oral contraceptives Pregnancy or post-partum Previous or current cancer Limb trauma and/or orthopedic procedures Coagulation abnormalities Obesity Symptoms : Changes in skin color (redness) in a leg Increased warmth in the leg Leg or calf pain or tenderness Swelling (edema) of the leg Surface veins become more visible Leg fatigue Prevention : Compression stockings or support hose are routinely used Surgery patients are out of bed walking (ambulatory) earlier Low dose heparin therapy (anticoagulation therapy) is being used As is the case with most medical illnesses, prevention is of prime importance.  Understanding the risk factors and minimizing these risks is key to deep vein thrombosis prevention.  Also, recognizing symptoms early is the key to quicker treatment thereby reducing the risk for developing a more serious problem such as a PE. Tags: Anticoagulation Therapy , Blood Clots , Compression Stockings , Deep Vein Thrombosis , DVT , PE , Pulmonary Embolism , support hose Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » Venous Insufficiency Sunday, September 6th, 2009 Veins are the blood vessels in your legs that help bring blood back to the heart. When the leg veins can not longer pump hard enough to bring the blood back to the heart a person can develop chronic venous insufficiency. When you are sitting or standing up, the blood in your leg veins must go against gravity to return to your heart. To accomplish this, your leg muscles squeeze the veins of your legs and feet to help move blood back to your heart while one-way valves in your veins keep blood flowing toward the heart. When your leg muscles relax, these valves inside your veins close which prevents blood from going back down the legs. Over time, the walls of the veins can weaken and the valves can become damaged which cause chronic venous insufficiency. Symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency include aching or cramping in legs, itching, pain in legs gets worse when standing and better when legs are raised, swelling of legs and feet. Other signs may include redness of legs and ankles, skin changes – usually a darkening or redening – around the ankles, and wounds or ulcers on the lower leg and ankles. Chronic venous insufficiency generally affects women over 50. Some of the causes of chronic venous insufficiency include high blood pressure, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and phlebitis. There are other factors as well that can contribute to developing chronic venous insufficiency. These factors include a family history of venous insufficiency, obesity, smoking, pregnancy, as well as prolonged standing or inactivity and lack of exercise. There are many several ways to treat chronic venous insuffiency. Compression stockings or support hose may be recommended for milder cases. Support or compression stockings are elastic hose that squeeze the veins and prevent the blood from flowing backwards. Sometimes sores on the legs can develop from chronic venous insufficiency, called venous or stasis wounds, that can be in part treated with compression stockings. For more serious cases, sclerotherapy or surgical procedures can be used to treat chronic venous insufficiency. Tags: Compression Stockings , edema , support hose , Swollen feet , Swollen Legs , Venous Insufficiency Posted in Ankle Pain , Swelling/Edema , Swollen Feet & Ankles , Venous Insufficiency | No Comments » Swollen Feet? Tuesday, September 23rd, 2008 Nonpainful swelling of the feet and ankles (also known as edema) is a common problem, particularly in older people. It may affect both legs and may include the calves or even the thighs. Foot, ankle and leg swelling can occur for many different reasons/conditions.  Long periods of standing, long airplane flights or car rides, being overweight, increased age and trauma are few common reasons for swelling. Varicose veins, venous insufficiency and blood clots are other reasons that may cause swelling. Additionally, swollen legs may be a sign of a systemic problem such as heart or kidney failure or a sign of a clot or leg infection – all of which need to b examined and treated by a physician.  Certain medications can also cause swelling in the legs and feet.  Exercising your legs to help pump  the fluid from your legs back to your heart, keeping your legs elevated above your heart while lying down and wearing support hose are a few ways to help treat the swelling and the pain that may be associated with swelling.  However, you should always consult your physician to determine the cause of swelling in your leg and for the most appropriate treatment for your condition. Tags: compression hosiery , edema , support hose , support socks , swollen ankles , Swollen feet Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » Policies Payment Options Shipping Return Policy Terms of Use / Disclaimer Privacy More Information Home About Us Foot Care Blog Helpful Foot Care Resources Customer Service Email: customerservice@drtodds.com Toll-Free: 877-637-8633 Contact Us © Copyright Dr. Todd's 2011. All Rights Reserved. * Free shipping a