
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 01:31:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Back Pain Relief: Exercises For Lower Back Pain | Machine | Upper Back Pain Relief Yoga >> Articles >> Yoga Exercises Back Pain Relief Follow Submitted by Kevin Pederson on   February 19, 2010 We are constantly using our back muscles in most of our normal daily activities like sitting, walking, bending or lifting things. This puts tremendous pressure on the spine. Lifting something which is too heavy, bending down in an improper way,  suddenly turning one’s head – anything can cause a sprain in the back muscles and cause back pain. Almost all of us have experienced back pain at least once in our lives.  Next to the common cold, back pain is the most common ailment. Its occurrence often increases with age, as bones, muscles and joints become weaker. Causes of back pain: Back pain can be caused by various factors such as: •Bad posture and alignment. •Weak back muscles, caused by a sedentary life with no exercise. •Tension and lack of proper sleep. •A herniated disc. •Osteoarthritis or decreasing bone density, which usually occurs in those over age 65. •Spondylosis (spondilitis) caused by the loss of moisture in the space between the inter-vertebral discs. •Tumors or cancer in the spinal region. •A muscle or ligament sprain in the lower back (lumbago) •Sciatica •Sometimes, an infection in some other organ such as the kidneys can also cause back pain. •Injury, either by an accident or fall. •Irregular periods or PMS. Treatment for back pain: If your back pain is very severe, or if it becomes chronic, that is, it persists for more than 3 months, you should consult a doctor. A doctor will probably conduct tests like X-rays and scans to rule out all other possibilities. Treatment will then include: •Medication to stop the inflammation or reduce pain. •Therapy to strengthen the area. •Surgery may be resorted to in the most extreme cases. How to get back pain relief: Most back pains are usually caused by a simple sprain, and you can get relief by a few home methods such as a painkillers, a hot water bottle, and a few stretching exercises. Yoga for back pain relief: The exercises of yoga stretch and strengthen the muscles of the spine and abdomen. They also improve posture and help to release tension from the body. All this makes it an effective tool to avoid or give relief from back pain. Yoga poses for back pain relief: •Cat Pose (Bidalasana) •Locust Pose (Salabhasana) •Fish Pose (Matsyasana) •Tadasana (Mountain Pose) •Triangle Pose (Trikonasana) •Cobra Pose (Bhujangasana) •Downward Facing Dog Pose (Adho Mukho Svansana) •Corpse Pose (Savasana) How to prevent back pain: Taking care of a few daily activities and situations will help you to keep back pain away. •Regular exercise such as walking, swimming, cycling or sports. Yoga is particularly beneficial, since it promotes better alignment of the spine. •Getting a firm bed. •Getting proper sleep. Read more articles from the Yoga Exercises Category. Related Topics Running Lower Back Pain Running Uphill | Lower Back Flexibility Chronic Back Pain Relief Sciatica | Neck Pain | Acute Back Pain Relief | Chronic Back Pain ReliefChronic SciaticaSciatica pain that does not decrease even after two or three Lower Back Pain Relief Hip Pain Relief| Exercises | Stretches | Yoga Lower Back Pain ReliefWhen people get back pain, they often think that they need more rest. While Severe Back Pain Relief | Kidney | | Spinal Stenosis | Lower Back Pain Severe Back Pain There are several ways to get relief from severe back pain. These include taking Exercise Lower Back Pain Muscles | Sciatica Exercises Related Questions Yoga Lower Back Pain | Lower Back Pain Relief Exercises Yoga Routine Yoga For Lower Back PainLower back pain could result from a number of reasons including your posture Back Pain Relief Yoga Sciatica | Medication | Stimulus Yoga Back pain is one of the most common health problems. It can occur as a consequence of several Asanas backache | Asanas neck pain Yoga relief for back and neck pain Urban lifestyles bring with it a host of problems and the Back Strengthening Exercises | Yoga Lower Back Pain Back pain is the normal ailment most of us suffer from. Yoga helps in providing relief from the Asanas Back Pain Poses | Pranayama | Vinyasa | Postures Back Pain The practice of yoga asanas for back pain has been a common practice for a long time. Lower back Newsletter Sign-up Subscribe eBooks Related Yoga Information yoga and basketball hatha yoga what to wear back bend yoga ab exercises yoga and gerd Get Current News Yoga Exercises Follow us on Copyright © 2011 Waterfront Media, Inc. Terms of Use | Sitemap The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy . Search: Yoga | Logi