Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Valerian Root Side Effects - Valerian Side Effects you should know about General Info BUY TEA Green Tea White Tea Black Tea Herbal Tea Diet Tea Iced Tea Tea Guides History & Ceremonies Accessories Start a Tea Business More Tea Info [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Valerian Root Side Effects Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.crazyfortea.com This article is about valerian root side effects and will help you have a safe experience when using valerian root and if you are drinking valerian tea. Valerian Side Effects There are several documented valerian root side effects that are associated with the herb valerian and valerian root. Regardless of the form of valerian you use, like caplets, or valerian tea, these are all side effects you should be aware of. Herbs, just like prescription medicines, can have different reactions within each of us. This is why some people react differently and can experience some of the valerian side effects we are noting below. Valerian Facts & Side Effects The following side effects have been noted and documented (wikipedia and other resources). These side effects can typically appear with high dosages or consumption. (Over 500mg of valerian root). Valerian Root can cause stomach aches Valerian Root can cause apathy Valerian Root can cause mental dullness Valerian Root can cause mild depression Valerian Root can cause dizziness Valerian Root can cause drowsiness Valerian Root can cause anxiety Valerian Root can cause night terrors Valerian Root allergies can cause rashes Valerian Root allergies can cause hives Valerian Root allergies can cause difficulty breathing Valerian Side Effect Cautions Valerian root (capsules and valerian tea) are a herbal tranquilizer. That is why dizziness and drowsiness are some of the side effects you can experience. DO NOT drink valerain tea or take capsules and try to operate dangerous equipment, machines, or drive a car. Valerian root is deemed a safe herb and should be used as directed. Chronic valerian consumption can also result in the side effects noted above to become apparant. Valerian tea should be consumed on a casual or as needed basis. It is not meant to be taken daily. Use it when you need it and you will typically get great results of the sedative and relaxing qualities that valerian root is known for. Buy Valerian Root We have an excellent supplier of top quality valerian root for making valarian tea. Visit our Tea Herbs section to order small or bulk wholesale quantities of valerian root. Valerian Root Tea Recipe If you want to learn how to make valerian root tea, we have a free herbal tea recipe for you. You can get that recipe by visiting our Valerian Root Herb section. Valerian root is used to treat insomnia and anxiety and is most useful after taken for a couple weeks before significant results are found. It was originally used to in relation with epilepsy. Valerian has been used to treat gastrointestinal spasms, epilepsy and ADHD; however, no scientific research supports these uses. Valerian herb is thought to be desired by rats and has been used to bait rat traps.  In some versions of the story, in addition to his flute the Pied Piper of Hamlin used Valerian to attract the rats. In some cats Valerian has the same effect as Catnip. Valerian Cautions Side Effects of Valerian Valerian root side effects are a concern. Some people may experience the opposite effect when using Valerian and may have headache, agitation and night terrors. These are some of the side effects of valerian. This is a powerful herb and caution with doseages is highly recommended. Start with a very small amount. Due to lack of study Valerian is not recommended during pregnancy or breastfeeding. Children under 3 years of age should not be given Valerian. Valerian should not be used in combination with alcohol or barbiturates. Do not operate machinery or drive until you know how Valerian affects you. More about Valerian Tea We have other articles about the uses and benefits of valerian tea. Valerian Herb Information - an article about the uses and side effects of valerian. Valerain Root Tea Recipe - Information and a recipe about Valerian Root Tea Return from Valerian Root Side Effects to Tea Articles Return from Valerian Root Side Effects to Herbal Tea Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.crazyfortea.com Disclaimer: Tea is not FDA tested and has not been approved by the FDA as treatment or cure to any health problem or illness, including cancer. Although there is much research to show the benefits of tea, it can't be said to be a medical fact. Always consult your doctor or health practitioner before putting any type of herb in your body. Copyright 2007-2011 SBI! *Share* A Favorite for Tea Lovers Must Have Recipe Ebook! Buy the Complete Herbal Tea Recipe Ebook plus BONUS Herbal Tea Remedies Buy the Ebook Now Shop for Tea & Herbs Shop in our Tea Herbs store for 100's of herbs and teas to make your own herbal tea! Shop with us for Herbs HERE! Our herbs are the freshest and organic and wildharvested. Save up to 60% when you buy wholesale! Finest Organic Teas! Organic Tea & Tea Herbs Build a Website Replace Your JOB in 2011 Build yourself a website, and replace your job like I have with crazyfortea.com - Click the banner above to gain access to the easiest and best web site builder available. Our Sister WebSites Aloe Vera Juice Benefits - All about the miracles of aloe vera and its healing abilities. Cancer treatment, aloe vera juice benefits, and top quality International Aloe Science Council approved products. Sick Of Cellulite - A cellulite reduction help site. Home remedies, cellulite cream reviews, e-books, a