
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 18:56:12 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
P3P: policyref="/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="policyref=/w3c/p3p.xml"
Expires: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 18:56:13 GMT
Cache-control: cache, no-store, must-revalidate
Set-Cookie: sess_id=cdeebddbdd2cb36c80edd4f2e4e4b3ac; path=/; expires=Mon, 30-Apr-2012 18:56:13 GMT
Set-Cookie: sess_id=669dd2a2da4b0dc1b4a8b8d88dd9fa5a; path=/; expires=Mon, 30-Apr-2012 18:56:13 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Cinnamon 6 Presented by WellClub Home Products Opportunity Conference Calls Join The Club Login Muscadine - Perfect Grape Avazzia BEST Devices Caldera Greens Peak Enzymes Cinnamon 6 Coral Complex 3 VelociTea wwc pH Control Order by Phone Secure Online Order Back Office Menu Order Online Now Logout Cinnamon 6 Presented by WellClub Cinnamon
    6 In 1904, the average American consumed about 4 or 5 pounds of refined sugar every year.  Today, Americans consume close to that amount of refined sugar every week!  Aside from causing an explosion of diabetes and obesity, this massive upsurge in sugar consumption has a direct effect on the proliferation of cancer. movie plays here THE SEVEN INGREDIENTS OF CINNAMON 6 ™. Over 30 years ago, Dr. James Chappell learned about the health benefits of fenugreek and
    chromium, especially how they affect sugar in the body. Many years later, he learned about
    American ginseng and Nopal cactus doing the same.  About 10 years ago, he discovered
    Gymnema sylvestre. And finally within recent years, he was introduced to activated
    cinnamon and bitter melon. After he combined these six herbs and one mineral, he
    discovered the most profound synergistic, adaptogenic health benefits of any herbal
    compound he had ever used or experienced. Seven
    Miracle Elements 1. Cinnamon - is found in many parts of the world from India,
    China, Madagascar, Brazil to the Caribbean. The use of cinnamon dates back as long ago as
    4,000 years. It has a broad range of historical uses in different cultures, including the
    treatment of diarrhea, rheumatism, as an antibacteria, digestive aid relieving gas and
    bloating as well as certain menstrual disorders. But the most significant use recently
    discovered by Dr. John Anderson of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), is
    for regulating glucose. As you know, sugars and starches in food are broken down into
    glucose, which then circulates in the blood. The hormone insulin helps the cellular
    receptor sites attract glucose to be used as energy or made and stored as fat. Listen to these recorded interviews of Dr James Chappell on Cinnamon 6 February 
    19th, 2009 MP3 February 
    26th, 2009 MP3 March 
    12th, 2009 MP3 March 
    19th, 2009 MP3 Dr. Anderson discovered a water-soluble polyphenol compound called MHCP in cinnamon that
    actually mimicked insulin and activated the cells receptor site. Testing it in several
    clinical trials, he not only discovered cinnamon could lower glucose, but it appeared to
    lower blood levels of fats and “bad” cholesterol. It also neutralized free
    radicals. If glucose builds up in the blood, it causes signs and signals of fatigue, weight gain and
    blurred vision. Eventually, fat and muscle cells lose their ability to react to insulin
    all together, thereby leading one to develop Type II diabetes. Apparently, cinnamon
    rekindles the ability of fat and other cells to react to insulin. One very interesting observation made by Dr. Anderson and his team of scientists took
    place after the clinical trial had ended. It appears that the health benefits of cinnamon
    lasted for at least 20 days after people stopped taking it. Dr. Frank Sacks, an allopathic physician and professor of nutrition at the Harvard School
    of Public Health said, “I don’t know of any drug or product whose effects
    persist for 20 days, cinnamon must be an exception.” Alam Khan, Ph.D. with the Agricultural University in Peshawar, Pakistan, stated,
    “Cinnamon can improve glucose metabolism and the overall condition of individuals
    with diabetes; thereby improving cholesterol metabolism, removing artery damaging free
    radicals from the blood and improving function of small blood vessels.” Even the president of the American Diabetic Association, Dr. Eugene Barret said, “If
    the results hold up in additional studies (concerning cinnamon), the impact could be
    significant.”  Again, Dr. Anderson excitedly said, “Cinnamons medicinal
    properties demonstrate the most significant nutritional discovery I have seen in 25
    years.” He continued saying, “There were significant decreases in fasting serum
    glucose by 18 to 29%, lowered triglycerides by 23 to 30%, lowered total cholesterol by 12
    to 26% and LDL cholesterol by 7 to 27%.”  All after just taking cinnamon for 40
    days. We now not only have thousands of years of anecdotal testimonials, but we have major
    universities, hospitals and even our own federal government agency, the USDA,
    scientifically proving that cinnamon mimics insulin and helps drive glucose into the
    cells.  As good as this sounds, it gets even better. Next we have bitter melon. 2. Bitter Melon - grows
    in tropical areas, including parts of the Amazon, eastern Africa, Asia and the Caribbean.
    It is also cultivated throughout South America as a food and medicine. Its use dates back
    over 5,000 years in China.  In the Amazon it is being used for expelling worms,
    intestinal gas, stimulating and promoting menstruation, as an antiviral for measles and
    hepatitis, but it is especially used for diabetes or “sweet urine.” In Brazilian and Mexican herbal medicine, bitter melon is used for tumors, wounds,
    malaria, vaginal discharge, inflammation, menstrual problems, colic, fevers and worms, but
    again, it is specifically used for diabetes. Bitter melon contains an array of biologically active plant chemicals including
    triterpenes, proteins and steroids. In numerous studies, at least three different groups
    of constituents found in all parts of bitter melon, have clinically demonstrated
    hypoglycemic properties. To date, close to 100 in vivo (human) studies have demonstrated the blood sugar lowering
    effect of this bitter fruit. The fruit has also shown the ability to enhance a cells
    uptake of glucose, to promote insulin release and to potentiate the effect of insulin. The
    fruit and leaf are best used, not the seeds. Researchers believe bitter melon lowers blood
    sugar by increasing the activity of hexokinase and glucokinase - enzymes in your body that
    convert sugar into glycogen stored in the liver. In the Journal of Nutrition, April 2003 issue, Drs. Q. Chen and Li Et from the University
    of Hong Kong, The People’s Republic of China, were quoted as saying, “Bitter
    melon appears to have multiple influences on glucose and lipid (fat) metabolism that
    strongly counteract the effects of a high-fat diet.” Even the prestigious Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center recognizes bitter melon
    stating, “Bitter melon has been used to treat diabetes, cancer, viral infections and
    immune disorders. Data suggests it has a significant hypoglycemic effect.” However, the most notable statistical reference came from the Journal of Phytotherapy,
    December 2003, when Drs. W Jia, W Gao and L Tang state, “Pharmacological and clinical
    evaluations indicate that bitter melon had a.significant blood glucose lowering effect and
    that the long term use may be advantageous over chemical drugs in alleviating some of the
    chronic diseases and complications caused by diabetes. The use of natural agents in
    conjunction with conventional drug treatments, such as insulin, permits the use of lower
    doses of the drug and/or decreased frequency of administration which decreases the side
    effects most commonly observed.” This is an extremely significant finding. They are saying bitter melon not only had an
    impressive blood glucose lowering effect, but even if this herb doesn’t totally lower
    one’s glucose to normal limits, it allows the diabetic user to lower their insulin
    medication where they have little side effects from that medication. It is not advisable
    to use bitter melon during pregnancy or breast feeding since it is a weak uterine
    stimulant. As with other herbs, taking bitter melon for 27 days, then discontinuing for 3
    days or so and then repeating, is the best use approach. Continuous use only causes
    homeostasis thereby lessening the medicinal effect. When Dr. Chappell combined cinnamon with bitter melon, the effects were even more
    impressive, but we’re not even one third of the way into the Seven Miracle Elements.
    Next is gymnema sylvestre or gurmar from India. 3. Gymnema Sylvestre -
    is a woody plant that grows in the tropical forests of central and southern India. The
    leaves are used in herbal medicine preparations. The plant, when chewed, actually blocks
    the sugar receptor sites, which explains the Hindi name gurmar or “sugar
    destroyer.” Gymnema has been used in India for the treatment of diabetes for over
    2,000 years. The leaves were also used for stomach ailments, constipation, water retention
    and liver disease. According to current research, gymnema improves uptake of glucose into cells and prevents
    adrenaline from stimulating the liver to produce glucose, thereby reducing blood sugar
    levels. Even the notable Harvard Medical School in conjunction with the Natural Standard,
    an organization that produces scientifically based reviews of complementary and
    alternative medicine topics, states, “There is evidence to suggest that gymnema can
    lower blood sugar levels in people with Type I and Type II diabetes.”  This is
    significant to say the least. Harvard is saying gymnema sylvestre can even affect the
    glucose levels of those with Type I diabetes! Remember, approximately 2 million people have Type I diabetes in America today. This
    condition involves the pancreas not producing enough insulin. Then, we have the Yale
    University publication called Yale New Haven Health. Therein they state, “Gymnema
    sylvestre will often improve blood sugar control in diabetics. Although no interactions
    have been reported, gymnema may decrease the required dose of insulin.” From the Journal of Endocrinology November 1999 at the School of BioMedical Sciences,
    King’s College, London, England, Drs. SJ Persaud and PM Jones state, “Results
    confirm the stimulatory effects of gymnema sylvestre on insulin release indicate that this
    herb acts by increasing cell permeability.” Finally, from the Journal Ethnopharmacol, October 1990, Dr ER Shanmugasundaram, et al,
    from the University of Madras, India, states, “Gymnema sylvestre therapy appears to
    enhance endogenous insulin, possibly by regeneration and/or revitalization of the residual
    beta cells in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.” Again, we are talking about Type I diabetes, the kind of diabetes that normally requires
    one to inject insulin for life. Now we have Harvard Medical School and the University of
    Madras in India telling us gymnema sylvestre lowers glucose in Type I diabetics through
    possibly regenerating beta cells! This is truly exciting. You might think Dr. Chappell  had enough evidence to stop right here. But he
    wasn’t finished with his research. From cinnamon, bitter melon to gymnema, he wanted
    more insurance.  He wanted something that would always lower glucose. So he kept
    experimenting and decided to add Nopal cactus. 4. Nopal Cactus - has
    been used in Mexico to treat diabetes, stomach problems, fatigue, shortness of breath,
    easy bruising, prostate enlargement and liver disease for over 1,000 years. It has been
    thoroughly documented for over 500 years. Legend has it, the Aztecs consumed the
    “prickly pear” to control or actually cure “sweet urine” (diabetes)
    disease in adults. Nopal cactus continues to be a
    traditional treatment of diabetes in Mexico and other Latin American countries. Nopal
    lowers blood sugar levels by blocking absorption of sugar in the intestinal tract. It
    lowers overall cholesterol levels, improves the ratio of HDL to LDL cholesterol and lowers
    triglycerides by preventing the conversion of blood sugar into fat and by eliminating
    excess bile acids, which would ultimately be converted to cholesterol. It also lowers
    blood pressure and curbs the appetite and facilitates the breakdown and excretion of fat. In the 1991 issue of Archives of Medicine as reported by the Department of Internal
    Medicine, Mexico, Drs. AC Frati, N Diaz Xiloti, et al., state, “Diabetic patients had
    a significant decrease of serum glucose reaching from 41 to 46%” when taking nopal
    cactus. From cinnamon, bitter melon, gymnema sylvestre to nopal, Dr. Chappell's formulae was
    becoming more and more effective.  He had patients on insulin reducing their
    medication by 5, 10, 20 and 50 percent.  However, He wanted even a better formulae,
    one that main stream medicine could accept as scientifically proven beyond a doubt to
    lower glucose.  He looked into American ginseng. 5. American Ginseng -
    Asians consider ginseng the king of all herbs. American ginseng is similar enough to Asian
    ginseng to chemically have the same effects. In 1718, American ginseng brought $5 a pound
    in Canton, China. Today, it costs around $20 per pound for nonorganic and $100 to $600 per
    pound for organic. In 1773, 55 tons of American ginseng were sold to the Chinese. In 1824,
    380 tons were exported. Today, thousands of tons are bought and used all over the world. Why is this herb so popular? Why is it called the king of all herbs? Whether American,
    Asian or the Russian/Siberian ginseng, all three ginsengs are regarded as adaptogens, each
    one is used for similar reasons. Ginseng is useful in the treatment of diabetes, fatigue,
    for alleviating stress and during convalescence. It increases stamina and well-being,
    therefore athletes take ginseng to increase both endurance and strength. It helps to focus
    your thoughts, enhance memory, learning and behavior in patients with Alzheimer’s and
    other dementias. It is anti-viral and antibacterial. Best of all there are no known
    adverse side effects. For an anti-diabetic remedy, American ginseng is very effective. In the Archives of
    Internal Medicine (2000), it was reported by the University of Toronto, Canada, that
    American ginseng produces a “significant reduction” in blood sugar in people
    with diabetes. Even at the Pritzker School of Medicine, University of Chicago, Dr. Jing-Tian Xie,
    reported in the Pharmacology Res. 2004, “American ginseng possesses significant
    antihyperglycemia and thermogenic activity and may prove to be beneficial in improving the
    management of Type 2 diabetes.”  He also said, “American ginseng berry
    possesses significant antihyperglycemic and antiobese effects.” From a 2,000-year-old
    history of the Chinese using Asian ginseng, to our 300-year-old history using American
    ginseng, there is plenty of evidence that ginseng absolutely lowers glucose.  Now
    comes the magical herb fenugreek. 6. Fenugreek is used as
    a spice and medicinal herb throughout the world.  Traditional Chinese herbalists use
    it for a multitude of conditions including kidney problems, male reproductive infections,
    constipation, atherosclerosis, high triglycerides and high cholesterol. However, the
    number one reason fenugreek is used universally, is for diabetes and sugar-intolerance
    problems. After exhaustive scientific research,
    the European Scientific Cooperative on Phytotherapy lists fenugreek as an adjuvant therapy
    in diabetes and for hypercholesterolemia. It also has an effect on lipid peroxidation
    thereby lowering freeradical damage. Even the German Commission E, the equivalent to our FDA, recognizes the benefits of
    fenugreek and has listed it as one of their approved herbs for medicinal purposes,
    including breaking down (dissolving) mucous and other secretions, increasing blood flow
    and inhibiting growth of infectious organisms. In the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition 1990, Drs. R.D. Sharma, T.C. Raghuram and
    N.S. Rao from the National Institute of Nutrition, Council of Medical Research, Hyderabad,
    India report, “Fenugreek significantly reduced blood sugar and improved the glucose
    tolerance test with a 54 percent reduction in 24-hour urinary excretion. Again, from India at the Jaipur Diabetes and Research Centre and reported in the India
    Journal Association of Physicians, Drs. A. Gupta, R. Gupta and B. Lal report “Use of
    fenugreek seeds improves glycemic control and decreases insulin resistance in mild Type 2
    diabetes. Finally, our own Sloan Kettering Cancer Center states, “Fenugreek exhibits
    hypocholesterolemic, hypolipidemic and hypoglycemic activity in healthy and diabetic
    humans and animals.” They continue saying it is the defatted seed that seems to be of
    benefit. This is a very important point since many manufacturers use the regular,
    lesseffective seed. Dr. Chappell recommends only the defatted seed. The final element
    known to lower glucose is the trace mineral chromium. 7. Chromium Polynicotinate - In the 1950s it was found that chromium was necessary for the maintenance of normal
    glucose tolerance. Although it used to be found in many foods - whole grains, cereals,
    spices, mushrooms, raw sugar and meat Brewer’s yeast is the best source available. Chromium increases insulin binding and
    cellular insulin receptivity.  Knowing that the plasma chromium levels are typically
    lower in 100% of diabetics, chromium supplementation likely could benefit all diabetics.
    As reported in numerous clinical trials,subjects taking chromium demonstrated significant
    improvement of fasting glucose and postprandial (after eating) glucose. Chromium Polynicotinate has greater biological activity than other forms of Chromium,
    including sources from picolinate. It helps to stabilize blood sugar levels and can be
    critical to the synthesis of cholesterol, fats and proteins. Chromium polynicotinate
    consists of pure niacin-bound chromium, identified by United States Government researchers
    as the active component of true GTF (Glucose Tolerance Factor). GTF is responsible for
    binding insulin to cell membrane receptor sites. Chromium polynicotinate has been shown to
    possess greater biological activity than other chromium. In fact, the niacin bound
    chromium is a much more effective form of supplemental chromium than the more common and
    cheaper chromium picolinate. Yale New Haven Health, a medical research and hospital facility states, “Chromium is
    an essential trace mineral that helps the body maintain normal blood sugar levels.
    Chromium polynicotinate increases fat loss and promotes a gain in lean muscle
    tissue.”  The suggested dose is 400 mcg of chromium polynicotinate daily.
    Although helpful for weight loss, depression, athletic performance, Syndrome X, insulin
    resistance, high triglycerides, hypoglycemia and high cholesterol, it is primarily
    beneficial for diabetes. Once found in abundance in the earth’s soil, commercial
    farming and food processing have all but destroyed it. Our only chance for replacement is
    with supplementation. There you have it. Six herbs that have been used for up to thousands of years, on several
    continents, by millions of people for a list of conditions, including diabetes, with
    virtually no side effects. Now, modern science has come along and analyzed every component
    including the molecular structure of these time-tested herbs only to prove they absolutely
    lower glucose. And not to forget a little trace mineral called chromium. When combining these miracle elements with eating a good diet, doing effective exercise,
    drinking pristine charged distilled water, getting plenty of rest, sunshine and
    relaxation, meditating daily and most of all, forgiving the unforgivable, you have
    everything you need to naturally address your diabetes. You will never know, unless you
    try. You have nothing to lose and everything to gain. View the Cinnamon 6 Label Member Price $46 for one bottle Use the link below to Order Now Page Last Modified on: Friday, 11-February-11 17:08 The information on this website is presented for educational purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for the diagnosis, treatment and advice of a qualified licensed professional. Throughout this website, statements are made pertaining to the properties and/or functions of nutritional products. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and these materials and products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Return & Refund Policy | Privacy Policy | Income Disclaimer | Member Agreement | Terms of Service | Spam Policy Page Dynamically Generated in 0 seconds Current Server Time: Sunday, 29-April-12 11:56:13 AM Customer Service Phone: USA: (866)549-0267; Non USA: (503)928-8191 See Hours Whole Wellness Club, LLC Sun Prairie, WI 53590 Credit Card Payment Gateways: Click to