Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 04:32:03 GMT
Connection: close

Acupuncture Can Assist Deal with Migraines New Page 1 Home | Contact us | Free 
Horoscope | | Puja Photo | 
					Puja Movie | F ree 
    spiritual magazine member Sadhana Registration Hypno 
      photo| gallery 64 Yoggini Raksha Kavach Blackmagic Kavach Aroma 
      Therapy Ayurveda Attraction Therapy Affirmation therapy Autogenics Therapy Aura Reading Acupuncture Therapy Free Horoscope Consulting About 
		Aroma About 
		Ayurveda Attraction Therapy Affirmation therapy Autogenics Therapy Aura Reading Acupuncture Therapy Acupressur e 
	Therapy Art Therapy Astrology Bach Flower therapy Birth Control Beauty and skin care Breast Feeding Black 
	magic world Behavior therapy Our 
Seminar Spiritual Shopping DhyanSanjivani Support Mantra 
Encyclopedia Biofeedback therapy Self-Development Magic 
product-methods Chiropractic 
therapy Chinese Medicine Chiropractic Therapy Candle 
      Therapy Chelation  
      Therapy Colour 
      Therapy Chakra Dream Therapy Karma Yoga Acupressur e 
	Therapy Art Therapy Astrology Bach Flower therapy Birth Control Beauty and skin care Breast Feeding देखिये आचार्य जी का कार्यक्रम एस्ट्रो टाक MYTV  चैनल पर (15 - 16  फरवरी २०१२,सुबह १० से दोपहर १ बजे तक) (रिलायंस डी टी एच २१७ और एयरटेल डी टी एच ११६ पर ) Free Horoscope Contact us A to Z 
Therapy Aroma 
      Therapy Ayurveda Attraction Therapy Affirmation therapy Autogenics Therapy Aura Reading Acupuncture Therapy Acupressur e 
	Therapy Art Therapy Astrology Bach Flower therapy Birth Control Breast Feeding Black 
	magic world Biochemic Tissue Salts Behavior therapy Biofeedback therapy Beauty and skin care Magic 
product-methods Chiropractic 
therapy Chinese Medicine Chiropractic Therapy Candle 
      Therapy Chelation  
      Therapy Cardiomyopathy Chinese Food Therapy Colour 
      Therapy Coloration therapy Dieting Disease Diksha Dream Therapy Eastern 
      Gemology Feng 
      Shui Fitness Glandular Therapy Gain Weight Guided 
	Imagery Gems- Stone Hypnotism Hindu mythology Handwriting 
      Analysis Home herb therapy Hormone Replace Therapy Herb 
		remedy for disease Hydro 
      Therapy Homeopathy Therapy Hellerwork therapy Herbal Therapy Healthy Aging I 
      Ching Indian festivals Indian Temples Juice Therapy Kinesiology therapy Light therapy Laughter 
	therapy Massage 
      Therapy Magnet 
      Therapy Meditation Music 
      Therapy N.L.P Oxygen Therapy Pranik 
      Therapy Prayer 
      Therapy Pranayama Therapy Reflexology Reiki Shiatsu Therapy Self-Development Sound 
      Therapy Spiritual Therapy Telepathy Tarot Cards Therapy Tratak Therapy Tai Chi Urine 
      Therapy Upavasa  
      (Fasting) Vastushastra Yoga 
      Therapy Sanatan Dharma A to Z Disease Abuse Allergy Arthritis Acute bronchitis Alcoholism Anthrax Beriberi Bronchitis Cancer of the Bladder Childbirth Children Health Coma Death Drug allergy Depression Enlarged Prostate Eye examination Female sterilization Gambling addiction Heart Block Hepatitis B Impotence Kidney dialysis Kidney stones Male sterilisation Miscarriage Jaundice Paget's disease - nipple Pink Eye Red eye Stomach Cancer Tetanus Vaginal infection Anal cancer Bed-wetting Tantra-Mantra-Yantra Acupuncture Therapy Go to Therapy home page Go to Acupressure therapy home page Acupuncture Can Assist Deal with Migraines Acupuncture may help deal 
			with migraines. This was found after a comparative examine was 
			carried out with typical medical care. In some circumstances, it 
			even prevents it from taking place which helps improve the quality 
			of life for the patient. To understand how 
			acupuncture helps migraine sufferers, it's a must to perceive that 
			in traditional Chinese language drugs, it's believed that an 
			imbalance in the circulation of blood and energy causes this to 
			happen. With the intention to deal 
			with it, the specialist must relieve the tension by inserting 
			needles into the body to improve the blood stream to the brain thus 
			lowering the ache skilled throughout an attack. The needles used helps the 
			body stability the serotonin levels since it's a neurotransmitter 
			that affects blood vessels and has a role to play in migraines. In 
			actual fact the extra frequent these classes are the better. It may 
			even come to some extent the place the precise point of contact is 
			not needed but the basic stimulation itself. The top result of present 
			process acupuncture is amazing. When you expertise 15 to twenty days 
			of agonizing ache, this can be depend right down to solely 8 days. 
			You gained’t even want to use that much treatment anymore as before. For those who are working, 
			this is good in order that they are not absent from work that much 
			and there won’t be that a lot deductions of their salary. However how properly 
			acupuncture does for one patient could fluctuate with another. This 
			is determined by the condition of the attack and the individual. One of the best part about 
			acupuncture is that there are not any side effects and it's 
			painless. Skillful professionals can do that so you don’t undergo 
			from hematoma or pneumothorax. One other disease is probably 
			dangerous is HIV or hepatitis which could be prevented after all as 
			long as the needles used are properly sterilized. It will be a lot 
			better if the individual uses disposable needles. Acupuncture has been 
			practiced in the United States for more than 2 decades. Although 
			checks have shown how efficient it may be to deal with continual 
			situations and sure addictions, extra studies have to be carried out 
			to see where else it can be useful. Although one take a look at 
			has proven that acupuncture will help migraines, other checks will 
			also should be achieved to prove if this is true. Until such time 
			that other outcomes are revealed, patients will have to depend on 
			standard medication that is prescribed by a doctor. But you don’t have to 
			attend for the results to come back out. When you think it is value 
			a attempt, go for it. Just ask for a referral from your physician as 
			there are many practitioners who've accepted the truth that 
			alternative types of medicine may help a patient. You may as well find 
			somebody online. You will be positive they are licensed if they're 
			acknowledged by the National Certification Fee for Acupuncture and 
			Oriental Medicine. Apart from that, you also 
			needs to make some life-style changes as there are set off factors 
			that have been identified to cause migraines. Stress is primary on 
			the checklist so you get enough relaxation and train as well as a 
			balanced diet. Patients who're affected by 
			migraine also needs to examine if acupuncture is roofed by their 
			HMO. Most insurance coverage providers and HMO’s as of late cover 
			all or part of the price but there are restrictions so you should 
			test what is roofed by your policy. Free Horoscope A to Z Disease Vitamin A deficiency Vitamin E deficiency Vitamin toxicity Abdominal aortic aneurysm Addiction Blood in the urine Cancer of the Lung Children's health Constipation in children Dental caries Ear Canal Infection Epilepsy Family therapy Food allergy Growing pains Heart Failure Hot flushes in menopause Insect bites - children Kidney failure - acute Learning disabilities Menstruation Nail fungal infections Nosebleed Parkinson Prostate Cancer Snake bite children Sunstroke Tuberculosis Vaginal pain Vitamin B6 deficiency Vitamin K deficiency Vitamins Abdominal pain Aids Anemia Benign Breast Conditions Breast cancer & pregnancy Chest pain Chronic Pain Constipation Depression Diabetes Electric shock Exercise Female sexual disorder Food poisoning Headache Heat rash - children Menopause Iritis Kidney failure - 
						end-stage Lice Migraine introduction Nausea and vomiting Obesity Peptic ulcer Protein-calorie 
						malnutrition Spinal Cord Injury Tension headaches Uterus Cancer Vegetarianism Vitamin D deficiency Vitamin tests Yellow fever | Dhyansanjivani | Mantra 
			vidya | Spiritual 
    shop | Physical Science | Psychology | Site Map | Kindly note;- Dear visitors, it has come to our notice that people are posting   
      articles to us ,these articles are borrowed/copied without the writer's 
      consent. if you do so kindly write the website address/the author's 
      name/and your email address. failing which your article will not be 
      posted. Others who have written original articles need not worry about the 
      matter, You can also notify us if any kind of articles have been copied 
      from your website. We will look into the matter personally and add your 
      relevant details. Disputes arising from this matter  will be settled in 
      the Mumbai judiciary. Any enquiry contact dhyansanjivani_1965 at  yahoo.com GuruDiksha S