
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 21:37:21 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.caringhandsoutreach.org/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Healthcare - Community Health Care Home About Archives Contact Us Privacy Policy Community Health Care Presenting Community Health Care Information and Medical Advices Search Here Recent Posts Decalogue for Sport DO YOU LIKE THE KITCHEN New Method to Select Embryos 5 Tips to Sleep Soundly The Vinotherapy Depression at Christmas The Common Cold Bach Flowers Otitis The Route of the Smile Categories Alternative Medicine Baby Health Care Beauty Tips Botox Treatment Cellulite Children Health Care Cholesterol Colon Cleanser Dental Health Care Dental Insurance Diabetes Diarrhoea Doctor Jobs Drug Rehab Fitness Food and Nutritions Foot Health General Info Hair Care HCG Diet Health Tips and Info Healthcare Heart Diseases Hypertension Kidney Diseases Mens Health News Plastic Surgery Pregnancy and Birth Quit Smoking Sexual Problems Skin Care Stress and Depression Wrinkles Archive for the ‘Healthcare’ Category The Common Cold is associated with cold, cold is a disease that can have at any time of year at any age. Infection is one of the most typical and there are few who can boast of not having had any in recent months. In fact, statistics say that an adult suffers two to five colds per year, ranging between four and ten children. With this data, “in Spain would mean a total 80 million colds a year,” reflects the National Study on Vicks cold. Therefore, we must know what we face and how to prevent and reduce symptoms. A viral disease when you suffer a cold, the main areas affected are the nose, which suffers mucus, and throat, often irritated and cause discomfort and alterations in voice. Although there are a number of viruses such as rhinovirus or coronavirus that stand, this disorder may be due to more than 200 different viruses. “This is what makes it impossible to have an effective vaccine to protect them,” said the report. The most visible symptoms when colds are mild discomfort usually fall into the upper airways such as coughing, difficulty breathing through the nose, throat irritation, sneezing, watery eyes, decreased sense of smell, hoarseness, and sometimes can lead to headache or fever, without reaching the severity of flu. These symptoms usually last an average of three or five days, depending on the person. Child Thermometer although experts agree that colds are much less contagious than the flu, follows a series of measures to avoid infecting people around us if we are cold. “The cold virus transmission is through droplets of saliva that are expelled while talking, coughing or sneezing, first affecting the cells of the airways,” say the specialists. To avoid extreme we always cover our health and our well’s mouth when sneezing or tosamos. • How to relieve the symptoms? When an infection caused by a virus, there are no medications that can cope and we can only follow a few basic recommendations to try to lessen the symptoms and that they affect as little as our quality of life. Following this, you must be very clear that self-medication is strongly discouraged, much less come to antibiotics as a remedy without consulting your physician. You can enlist the help of nasal sprays or mints sold in pharmacies, which help relieve nasal mucus and ease sore throat. Experts also suggest hydrate your body with fluids, both water and hot tea and soups. Another solution is to use humidifiers for the environment, facilitating the excretion of mucus. On the other hand, we should avoid alcohol and snuff, and a balanced diet full of vitamins, and try to escape from stress as it affects our immune system and can weaken it and make it more vulnerable. Similarly, experts advise against the cold and sudden temperature changes and go for walks as much as possible to enable our circulatory system and our defenses. In addition, we can help make home remedies and steam inhalations of eucalyptus to clear nasal passages, gargle with salt water to relieve sore throat and take garlic, which is proven to help fight germs. Finally, we can afford a hot bath to relax we get home and can be very effective to clear the nose Posted in Healthcare | Tags: Cold , coronavirus , viruses | No Comments » Anemia Anemia characterized by producing a feeling of weakness in patients with the disease, but internally, is a reduction of red cell mass of the body, ie the number of red blood cells, resulting in a decrease in oxygen transport and a lack of oxygen to the tissues. There are different types of anemia and may be due to alterations in stem cells or deficit of factors that stimulate or are needed for erythropoiesis (technical name of the formation of red blood cells). It is also common, and also more known, iron deficiency anemia, caused by iron deficiency. Another type of megaloblastic anemia is common, caused by a deficiency of vitamin B12 or folic acid. On the other hand, there are also peripheral anemias, caused by blood loss or breakage of red blood cells in the circulation (hemolytic anemia). Logically, the manifestations of anemia is greater the smaller the amount of hemoglobin, which indicates a more serious situation. Dr. Villegas, a member of the Spanish Association of Hematology and Hemotherapy, says they also play an important role in the patient’s age and the rapidity of onset of anemia. Among the most common symptoms include: pale skin and mucous membranes, fatigue progressive leg pain, cramps, loss of strength, headache or ringing in ears. Also, irritability, poor memory and concentration as well as loss of appetite, gastrointestinal disorders, absence of menstruation and decreased libido or sexual desire. In addition, the expert notes that? Are common symptoms that affect the heart?, Such as palpitations. In the case of iron deficiency anemia (caused by lack of iron), we find as most characteristic signs of hair loss, broken nails or lesions in the corners of the lips. the presence of anemia is detected through blood or blood count. The latter study allows knowing the number of erythrocytes, leukocytes and platelets, and other parameters that identify the type of anemia in the event that there is. In this regard, Villegas said that another important fact is to assess the morphology, ie the shape of these red blood cells under a microscope. He adds that the diagnosis of each particular type of anemia requires the participation of specialized laboratories. This assessment will determine the best treatment in each case. Anemia, especially if severe and rapid onset produces a range of symptoms that impair quality of life of patients and makes they feel tired, miserable, so it is important to correct it. According to the doctor, the first thing to do in treatment is to remove the cause that produces it and in the case of iron deficiency anemia, caused by blood loss, the first thing is to eliminate these bleeding and then treat anemia with iron. The same is true of other anemias, to be offset in accordance with each deficiency. Whatever the cause, treatment specialist should meet, and in the case of iron deficiency anemia, iron continues to take three or four months after correction of anemia, to fill the bone marrow stores of iron. With this in mind, the most important is to go to the doctor and he shall of the best recommendations in each case. Posted in Healthcare | Tags: Anemia , erythropoiesis , megaloblastic | No Comments » Healthcare, The Basic Human Right With the inception of the civilized society in medieval age, the laws about the formation of human rights were started being legislated. With the lapse of time, Messengers of God endorsed the human made laws with the divine laws. In the end, the basic human rights were defined and implemented. All the laws in every country have been derived from these struggles of the early societies. Healthcare is now being perceived the basic human right and the jobs related with this field is being given higher value and importance. When you would be healthy then all the other works would be done. So without health, human beings are helpless in playing their roles individually or collectively for the betterment of a society. The developed countries are giving special attention towards the provision of this basic human right to their all citizens irrespective of their age, gender, race or origin. All the human beings in a society should be treated equally for their basic human rights and no stone should be turned left in giving such rights to them at their home thresholds. This is the reason that the jobs in healthcare department are the most valued jobs. People with the sense of serving humanity may suit best for these jobs. The hiring companies or government should be unbiased. Posted in Healthcare | Tags: Healthcare | No Comments » Home | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Health Care Info C