
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 04:24:17 GMT
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close

International Journal of Surgery: Research & Review Articles, Editorials and News related to Surgery Last Updated: Monday 12 March 2012, 3:15 GMT      Version 2.0 Username : Remember me on this computer Password : Forgotten your password? IJS Writers Room Email this to a friend Printable version Role Of Muscle Relaxant(Tizanidine)  In Painful Muscle Spasm By KHURRAM SIDDIQUE | Published Monday 13 October 2008 KHURRAM SIDDIQUE REGISTRAR IN G. SURGERY View all articles by  KHURRAM SIDDIQUE Role Of Muscle Relaxant(Tizanidine)  In Painful Muscle Spasm ROLE OF MUSCLE RELAXANT(TIZANIDINE) IN PAINFUL MUSCLE SPASM Khurram Siddique*,Aiza Jamil, Shirin Mirza, Syeda Fizza Tauqir, Riaz Ahmed Sheikh** ABSTARCT: BACKGROUND: Muscle spasms and cramps are spontaneous, often painful muscle contractions . Most cases of simple cramps require no treatment other than rest. More prolonged or regular cramps may be treated with drugs.Tizanidine which is an agonist at α2-adrenergic receptor sites and presumably reduces spasticity by increasing presynaptic inhibition of motor neurons is one such drug which relieves spasm, cramps and tightness of muscles. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate efficacy and safety of Tizanidine in painful muscle spasm of various etiologies. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This interventional study was carried out from July 1995 to July 2007 in outpatient department of Rawalpindi general hospital and Holy family hospital, Rawalpindi . Inclusion criteria included all the patients suffering from painful muscle spasm in back, neck, shoulder, knee or other anatomical sites with onset not more than two days prior to presentation. The patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, osteoporosis, infective arthritis, prolapsed disc, patients with history of NSAID or analgesics intake less than 6 hours prior to receiving the first dose of study medication, severe systemic disease, uncontrolled hypertension, pregnant women and lactating mothers were excluded from the study. After initial evaluation, patients took Tizanidine three times daily for 5 days with re-evaluation on day 3 and day 6. RESULTS: 5300 patients comprised of 60%(n=3180) males and 40%(n=2120) females with age range of 18-75 yrs. Complete resolution of symptoms was seen in 57%(n=3021) patients while no effect was seen in 10%(n=530) patients.14%(n=742) patients suffered from drowsiness,2%(n=106) patients suffered from dry mouth and 2%(n=106) patients suffered from GI symptoms and nausea. CONCLUSION: This study confirms that tizanidine is a safe, effective and reliable for relieving painful muscle spasm. KEY WORDS: painful muscle spasm, tizanidine, effectiveness, tolerability, side effects INTRODUCTION: Of th e num e r o u s s o f t t i ss u e s t ha t c a n b e th e l o cu s o f p a in, mu s cl e i s th e m os t fr e qu e n t ly involved . Pa in c an o rigin ate prim a rily fr o m th e mu s cl e t i ss u e o r s e c o nd a ri l y fr o m th e c on tiguo u s ti ss u e th at h a s s u st ai ne d in j u r y . Spasm o f th e l o w b a ck, ne c k a nd s h o uld e r can c a u se s ignific ant di s c o mf o rt an d r es tricti o n o f m ove m e n t to th e p a ti e nt. 1 Muscle pain, spasm, swelling, and inflammation are symptomatic of strains. The precise relationship between musculoskeletal pain and spasm is not well understood. The dictum that pain induces spasm, which causes more pain, is not substantiated by critical analysis . 2 Most cases of simple cramps require no treatment other than rest. More prolonged or regular cramps may be treated with drugs. The goal of therapy is to increase functional capacity and relieve discomfort. 3 The term "muscle relaxants" is very broad and includes a wide range of drugs with different indications and mechanisms of action. Muscle relaxants can be divided into two main categories: antispasmodic and antispasticity medications . 4 One such muscle relaxant is Tizanidine which is an imidazole derivative and is a centrally acting α 2 -adrenergic agonist which inhibits the release of excitatory amino acids in spinal interneurons. It may also act by facilitating the action of glycine. 3 In addition; tizanidine has been shown to enhance vibratory inhibition of the H-reflex in humans and reduces abnormal co-contraction which may also, in part, contribute to antispasticity effects. 5 Pr e v i o u s stu die s in th e t r eat m en t o f a c u t e l o w b a c k p a i n, an d othe r c o nd it i ons i nvo l v ing pa in f u l m us c le s p as m ha v e s h o w n Ti zan id ine t o b e e ffe c t i ve as m ono t he r ap y an d i n c o mbi nation w ith non - ste r o id a l anti- i n fl a mm a t o ry d ru g s ( NSA I D s ). Aim of the current study is to evaluate efficacy, safety and tolerability of tizanidine in local population. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This hospital based quasi experimental study was conducted in out patient departments of Rawalpindi General Hospital and Holy Family Hospital from July 1995 to July 2007. Non-probability convenient sampling was done. All the patients suffering from painful muscle spasm in back, neck, shoulder, knee or other anatomical sites with onset not more than two days prior to presentation were included in the study. The patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, osteoporosis, infective arthritis, prolapsed disc, patients with history of NSAID or analgesics intake less than 6 hours prior to receiving the first dose of study medication, severe systemic disease, uncontrolled hypertension, pregnant women and lactating mothers were excluded from the study. After initial evaluation, patients took Tizanidine three times daily for 5 days with re-evaluation on day 3 and day 6.Patients with severe muscle spasm were admitted. Evaluation included degree of pain according to Won-bakers faces pain rating scale. Threshold of pain was also assessed by palpation, movement, rest, at night and on awakening. Severity of muscle spasm and side effects/ tolerability of the medication were also evaluated. RESULTS: Out of a total of 5300 patients included in the study, 60 %( n=3180) were female and 40 %( n=2120) were male with an age range of 18-75 yrs. (graph 1) 35 %( n=1855) patients presented with painful muscle spasm of lower back, 30 %( n= 1590) with spasm of shoulder, 28% (n=1484) had muscle spasm at more than one site. Remaining 7 %( n=371) patients presented with spasm of neck muscles. At initial evaluation, 90% patients had moderate to severe pain due to spasm with pain score between 7-9, 89% experienced it on palpation. 95% complained of moderate to severe pain on movement while 66% had it at rest. Pain at night was felt by 61% and 66% complained of pain upon waking up. Significant reduction was noticed in pain due to spasm, on palpation, movement, rest, at night and awakening on day 3 with further pain reduction on day6. (Graph 2, 3 and 4). Regarding side effects, 14% (n=742) patients suffered from drowsiness while 2% having dry mouth. Equal number of patients (2%) complained each of nausea and other GI problems with 1 %( n=53) having dizziness. DISCUSSION: Wide variety of drugs can be used for the treatment of painful muscle spasm. Antispasmodics are used to decrease muscle spasm associated with painful conditions such as lower back pain. Antispasmodics can be subclassified into benzodiazepines and nonbenzodiazepines. 4 Nonbenzodiazepines include a variety of drugs that can act at the brain stem or spinal cord level. 6 One such drug is tizanidine which is the focus of the current study. In our study group majority of patients were 18-30 yrs of age and 35% patients presented with painful muscle spasm of lower back which is comparable to a similar study by Jose Alvin in Philippines in 1994 in which the mean age of the patients was 28 yrs and 27% presented with lower back muscle spasm. 1 Regarding the efficacy of tizanidine, severity of pain decreased maximum for pain on movement (87%) followed by pain due to spasm (85%) on subsequent visits on day 6 as compared to initial evaluation on day 1. L e pi s t o comp a r e d T iza n i di ne at a d ose of 2 mg thr ee tim es d ai l y f or 7 d ays, an d place bo i n a do u bl e -blind study o f 3 0 patients with acute skeletal muscl e spasm. A significant change in score f or muscle tension, t e nd e rn e ss and straight l e g-raising was noted in patients who took Tizanidin e compared to patients on placebo. 7 The Korean Pain f ul M us cl e Sp as m Study Group, in an open multicenter study tre a ted 77 0 p a tient s with acute p a i nful muscle spasm in e it her t he b ac k , should e r or n e ck using Tizan id ine 1 m g thr e e times daily f or s e ven days . R e sults showed significant i m prove m ents in pain on palpation o f t he affected sit e , pain at rest, at night during movement compared to baseline. 8 In a study by Waqstaff AJ in , antispastic efficacy has been demonstrated for tizanidine in placebo-controlled trials, with reduction in mean muscle tone scores of 21 to 37%. 9 Another aspect of the study was to assess the tolerability of the drug.14% patients complained of drowsiness followed by dry mouth (2%), nausea (2%), other GI symptoms (2%) and dizziness (1%).Study by United Kingdom Tizanidine Study Group showed that adverse effects of Tizanidine included dry mouth (45%), drowsiness (54%) and dizziness, and were seen primarily when dosages exceeded 24 mg/day. Visual hallucinations (3%) and elevated liver function tests (5%) were reversible with dosage reduction. 10 Tizanidine has gastro protective effects which may favor the combination of antispasmodics with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs. 11 CONCLUSION: Results of the study show that tizanidine is effective in relieving painful muscle spasm, is safe and well tolerated especially in countries where the drugs like morphine are not readily available. The fin d ings of th e present study confirm p r evious r eports of significant decreases muscle sp a sm and othe r pain p a r a m eters , us i ng T i zanidine as a m onothe r apy . 12, 13, 14 REFERENCES: 1- Jose Al v i n P. Mo ji ca, B ett y D . M an c ao ., M a . Lui sa P. P e re z M, et al. A dose finding therapeutic trial on Tizanidine in Fillipinos with acute muscle spasm. Phil . J . In t ern a l Medicine, 32: 1 4 1 - 1 4 5, M a y - June , 199 4 2- Beebe Frank A, Barkin Robert L, Barkin Stacie . A Clinical and Pharmacologic Review of Skeletal Muscle Relaxants for Musculoskeletal Conditions. American Journal of Therapeutics. 12(2):151-171, March/April 2005. 3- Kita, Mariko; Goodkin, Donald E. Drugs Used to Treat Spasticity. Drugs : Volume 59(3) March 2000 pp 487-495 4- Maurits W. van Tulder, Tony Touray, Andrea D. Furlan, et al. Muscle Relaxants for Nonspecific Low Back Pain: A Systematic Review Within the Framework of the Cochrane Collaboration. Spine 28(17):1978-1992, 2003. © 2003 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 5- Delwaide PJ. Electrophysiological testing of spastic patients: its potential usefulness and limitations. In: Delwaide PJ, Young RR editors. Clinical neurophysiology in spasticity. Amsterdam : Elsevier, 1985: 185-203 6- Jackson MD, Ryan DM. Drugs of importance in rehabilitation. In: DeLisa JA, ed. Rehabilitation Medicine: Principles and Practice. Philadelphia, PA : J.B. Lippincott; 1993. 7- LepistoP: A Compa r ativeTrialof D S 1 0 3 - Placebo in the T reatment of Acute Skeletal M uscl e Spasms D ue to Disorders of the Back . C urt The r R e s26:4 5 4, 1 9 7 9 . 8- The Korean Painful M us c le Spasm G roup . A M ulticenter Study to Evaluate th e E ffi cacy and Tolerability of Tizanidine in th e T r e atm ent of Acute Painful M uscle Spasms in . BrJ ClinRes1:23, 1990 . 9- Waqstaff AJ , Bryson HM . Tizanidine. A review of its pharmacology, clinical efficacy and tolerability in the management of spasticity associated with cerebral and spinal disorders. Drugs. 1997 Mar; 53(3):435-52. 10- United Kingdom Tizanidine Study Group. A double-blind placebo-controlled trial of tizanidine in the treatment of spasticity caused my multiple sclerosis. Neurology 1994; 44 Suppl. 9: 70-9 11- Sirdalud Ternelin Asia-Pacific Study Group. Efficacy and gastro protective effects of tizanidine plus diclofenac versus placebo plus diclofenac in patients with painful muscle spasms. Curr Ther Res 1998; 59: 13-22. 12- B erry H, Hut c hinson D R: A M ulti c en t re Placebo- Controlle d S tu d y in G ene r al P r act ic e to Eva l uate Effi c a c y an d Sa f ety of Tiz a nidine in acute low back pain. J Int M ad Res1 6 :7 5 , 1 988. 13- Hut c hinson DR , Daniels F, Jaga P: A M ultin a tional Study to E valuate th e Effe c tiveness and Toler a bility of Tizanidin e in th e Treat m ent of A c ute Painful M uscle Spasms. Br J Clin Res 1 :33, 990 . 14 - G ar c ia Ros a s R, Es c obedo B ri t o V: National M ulti c entre Study fo r the E valuation of Effica c y and Tolerability of Tiz a nidin e in th e M anage m ent of Pai n ful Mu scle Spasms. J I n t M e d Res 1 9: 1 66, 1993. Bookmark with: Delicious Digg reddit Facebook StumbleUpon Pages: 1 Comments Submit Comment Search: All Articles Featured Articles » Does surgery induce... » Advances in the... » Hand hygiene: An... » A review of... » Introducing the... » Introducing... » Survival rates in... Featured Authors » Michael Smith et al » Bassem Emad et al » Mark Rentschler » Andy Petroianu » Gerda Leitner » Surgical Associates Ltd Categories » Journal Information » Original Research » Press Releases » Editorial » Review Article » Art and Humanities » Hot Papers » Correspondence » Exclusive to theijs.com » News » Book Review » Advert Archives » March 2012 » February 2012 » January 2012 » December 2011 » November 2011 » October 2011 RSS Feeds [ How RSS Works ?] IJS Blog Contact Us | Site map | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Terms and Conditions Copyright © Surgical Associa