
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 14:22:51 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Caffeine Tablets Side Effects | Caffeine Pills & Capsules Risks & Dangers Healthy Diet Plans >> Caffeine >> caffeine tablets Side Effects Of Caffeine Tablets Caffeine tablets or caffeine pills are primarily used for weight loss programs . The regular caffeine tablet is said to contain about 200 mg of caffeine. This quantity is found to be equivalent to about 2 mugs of strong coffee. This quantity is not considered to be inherently dangerous however caution is advised. The effect of caffeine capsule or caffeine tablets varies from person to person. Similarly the side effects of caffeine tablets will also vary from person to person. It normally takes a little lesser than an hour for a caffeine tablet dose to kick in and the effects will usually last between 3 to 4 hours. Some of the benefits of caffeine pills include treatment of asthma , enhancing one’s mood, in the treatment of migraines, and in reducing one’s exhaustion, drowsiness and fatigue. It also enhances ones memory and increases a person’s alertness. Caffeine intake is also linked to a reduced risk of a person contracting Parkinson’s disease. An overdose of caffeine pills or caffeine tablets can result in depression, nervousness, headaches, peptic ulcers, hyperflexia, irritability, tremulousness, insomnia and shaking. Heart palpitations, increased urination, increased excitement, flushing of a person’s face and psychomotor agitation are some of the other risks caffeine pills have on a person’s health. An extremely big dose leads to hallucinations, manic depression, psychosis, delusions and finally may even lead to death. Prior to a person taking or consuming caffeine tablets, it is recommended that they seek the advice of a medical practitioner or doctor. The doctor will then recommend if the caffeine tablets are suitable for the person to take. If the individual is suffering from any kind of medical problem, then it is essential that they notify the doctor of this. Some of the diseases that get affected by one taking these tablets include diabetes, depression, thyroid disorder, cardiac conditions, digestive disorders, high blood pressure, cancer and coronary heart disease. Pregnant women are advised against taking these caffeine tablets as they can lead to problems like miscarriage, birth defects and may in very severe cases even result in the death of the fetus. Nursing mothers are also similarly advised against consuming caffeine tablets as this caffeine can make its way into the milk that the baby is being fed and cause various problems and health conditions for the child. Overdose of caffeine pills can also result in stunted growth among growing children. It is always advised that a person consume these caffeine tablets in moderation. When consuming these tablets it is also vital that the person drink plenty of water in a day. The recommended levels of water are 6 to 8 glasses of water per day. Caffeine is also found to have a diuretic effect on a person. If one must take the caffeine tablets, then it is recommended that one have it very early in the day. If the person has these tablets post 4 in the afternoon, then it can affect one’s sleep in the night. Those who consume caffeine tablets should take additional calcium supplements as caffeine. One should also check their pulse check regularly when they are taking these caffeine tablets. The pulse rate should always be lower than 86 beats in a minute. One should always slowly taper of the caffeine pills to avoid any withdrawal effects. Some of the main withdrawal dangers include irritability and headaches. Never take a caffeine tablet as a substitute for sleep. If a person is suffering from an overdose, it is vital to monitor their symptoms and to notify the doctor immediately. The doctor may recommend a lavage or may even induce vomiting to empty the stomach. Submitted on September  6, 2011 Related Articles Harmful Effects Caffeine | Caffeine Side Effects | Caffeine Caffeine is a stimulant that is present in several beverages as well as certain types of processed Benefits Drinking Coffee | Effects Drinking Coffee | Diet Fatigue Fatigue can broadly be defined as mental or physical exhaustion. It is considered a negative force, Gastritis Healing Diet | Foods Eat Gastritis Gastritis is a condition where the lining of the stomach becomes inflamed. It has many known causes Home Remedy Insomnia | Foods Induce Sleep | Foods Cause Insomnia The food we eat affects our bodies in a number of ways. There are some foods which negatively Soda Effects Diet | Effects Carbonated Soda Soda With MealsIf you’re planning to lose weight, a strict diet along with a regular exercise Features Archive 15 Slimming Foods for the Summer | Diet Plan | Cooling Foods | fruits and salads - May, 2010 Bratty Diet - Banana, Rice, Applesauce, Tea, Toast, Yogurt Diet - Mar, 2010 List of 21 Fresh Fruits And Vegetables For Fresh Healthy Nutrition - Nov, 2009 Fruits And Vegetables Nutrition Facts And Health Benefits - Jul, 2009 Cool Summer Food Ideas With Easy Summer Foods - May, 2009 21 Right Foods For Weight Reduction - Mar, 2009 51 Healthy Foods To Eat For Healthy Living - Feb, 2009 Healthy Winter Foods and Nutrition for Healthy Living - Jan, 2009 Related Topics Benefits Caffeine | Sources Caffeine | Effects Caffeine Body Effects Caffeine | Negative Effects Caffeine | Effects Caffeine Body Caffeine Headache Remedy | Headache Caffeinated Beverage Highest Caffeine Drinks Types | Limit Caffeine Intake Coffee Adverse Risks | Bad Effects Coffee Body Newsletter Sign-up Top Searches diet for cirrhosis of the liver diet tips water recipes gluten free diets types of diet carotene vitamin uric acid benefits of almond kidney stones Get Current News caffeine tablets Follow us on Copyright © 2011 Waterfront Media, Inc. Terms of Use | Sitemap The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy . Search: Healthy Diet 