
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 13:59:41 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: e2b594e7deede85e99a9f028d67d1c18
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 26 Mar 2012 13:59:41 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Treatment For Migraine | migraine-headache-relief | migraine-headache Headache Updates Headache Relief Sitemap Contact Us Natural Treatment For Migraine It is a well recognized fact that nature is the best doctor. In fact, 
nature has gifted you the solutions for various diseases. Two gifts from 
the nature to cure migraine are feverfew and fish oil. Feverfew: Feverfew, a member of the 
daisy family, has been reported to be beneficial in the treatment of 
migraine headaches. Scientifically known as Tanacetum Parthenium, it is 
quite often confused with chrysanthemum. Studies have shown that 
the beneficial effects of feverfew are visible only when taken for a few 
months continuously. And the best way to take the plant is either when 
it is fresh or when it is freeze-dried. But freeze-dried preparations 
may vary because their manufacture has still not been standardized. Patients 
starting with feverfew should start with a low dose of about 50 mg so 
that the potential for any harmful side-effects is reduced to the 
minimum. Although it has been found to be quite useful in the treatment 
of a migraine headache, studies are still underway to prove its 
efficacy. This is the reason why its use is still considered to be 
experimental. Some preparations of feverfew also have magnesium 
and Vitamin B-2 and hence have been found to be more effective than the 
regular feverfew medications. Fish oil: Fish 
oil, in addition to being good for health and promoting well-being 
because of the high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids present in it, can 
also be extremely beneficial in the treatment of migraine headaches. Omega-3 
fatty acids are found most commonly in cold water fish like salmon, 
mackerel, trout and herring. Scallops, caviar, oysters and clams also 
have high amounts of Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Studies show 
that fish oil reduces the frequency and severity of migraine attacks. It 
is actually the components Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and 
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), classified as omega-3 fatty acids in fish 
oil, that have been shown to be beneficial in the treatment of migraine. Even 
these fish oil capsules have to be taken only in the recommended dose 
for fear that they might raise the cholesterol and lipid levels of the 
migraneurs. Related Articles Lavender, a Natural solution to all your Migraine ... Feverfew- The Natural Remedy For Migraines... Menu Headache Guide Headache Types Headache Treatments Headache Tests Cluster Headache Causes of Headache Migraine Types of Migraine Sinus Headache Popular Articles The Latest Migraine Headache Medication Diamond Headache Clinic – A Renowned Headache Care Center Hypnosis Can Set You Free From Headache Try Some Home Remedies For Headaches Top Headache Treatment For Quick Headache Relief Treating Headache With Acupressure Dealing With Headaches At Work Or School Use Shiatsu For Headache Relief Can Meditation Bring You Relief From Headache? Sinus Headaches Pain Relief, Go for Acupuncture! Search Articles Causes Of Headache Diagnosis Of Symptoms Treatment Of Headache Headache Relief Cluster Headache Prognosis Of Headache Migraine Headache Sinus Headaches Know Your Pain Overview Types Of Headache Latest Articles Find The Reason Of Your Headache Too Much Of TV Watching Can Cause Headaches Perfumes Can Trigger Headaches Yoga Poses For Headache Relief Dangerous Headaches In Pregnancy Headache And Brain Tumor Understanding Sun Exposure Headache And How To Cure It How To Get Rid Of Helium Headaches? Food Items That Trigger Headaches Coping With Holiday Headaches Copyright © 2006 - 2012 Headache Update