
Connexon Creative - Hematopoiesis News 2.37 Publications News Subscribe Submit Article Media Jobs About Us Privacy Policy | Contact Hematopoiesis News 2.39, October 4, 2011 In this issue: Publications | Industry News | Policy News | Events | Jobs TOP STORY Tracking Single Hematopoietic Stem Cells In Vivo Using High-Throughput Sequencing in Conjunction with Viral Genetic Barcoding Here scientists demonstrate how to combine viral genetic barcoding with high-throughput sequencing to track single cells in a heterogeneous population. [ Nat Biotechnol ] Abstract PUBLICATIONS ( Ranked by Impact Factor of the Journal ) LABORATORY RESEARCH Inhibition of BET Recruitment to Chromatin as an Effective Treatment for MLL-Fusion Leukemia Here scientists used a global proteomic strategy to demonstrate that mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) fusions are associated with the BET family of acetyl-lysine recognizing, chromatin ‘adaptor’ proteins. [ Nature ] Abstract | Press Release Non–Lineage/Stage-Restricted Effects of a Gain-Of-Function Mutation in Tyrosine Phosphatase Ptpn11 (Shp2) on Malignant Transformation of Hematopoietic Cells Ptpn11 E76K mutation has non–lineage-specific effects on malignant transformation of hematopoietic cells and initiates acute leukemias at various stages of hematopoiesis. [ J Exp Med ] Abstract Δ 12 -Prostaglandin J 3 , an Omega-3 Fatty Acid-Derived Metabolite, Selectively Ablates Leukemia Stem Cells in Mice Researchers show here that Δ 12 -prostaglandin J 3 alleviates the development of leukemia in two well-studied murine models of leukemia. [ Blood ] Abstract Quantitative Trait Mapping Reveals a Regulatory Axis Involving Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptors, PRDM16, Transforming Growth Factor-β2 and FLT3 in Hematopoiesis The observations identify a novel regulatory axis that includes peroxysome proliferator-activated receptors, Prdm16 and transforming growth factor-β2 in hematopoiesis. [ Blood ] Abstract Functional Inhibition of Osteoblastic Cells in an In Vivo Mouse Model of Myeloid Leukemia Researchers propose that therapeutic mitigation of leukemia-induced uncoupling of osteoblastic and osteoclastic cells may represent a novel approach to promote normal hematopoiesis in patients with myeloid neoplasms. [ Blood ] Abstract Syngeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Enhances the Antitumor Immunity of Intratumoral Type I Interferon Gene Transfer for Sarcoma Here scientists examined whether a combination of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and interferon could induce an effective tumor-specific immune response against sarcoma. [ Hum Gene Ther ] Abstract DEK Regulates Hematopoietic Stem Engraftment and Progenitor Cell Proliferation Researchers hypothesized that DEK may modulate functions of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. [ Stem Cells Dev ] Abstract α-Tocopherol Induces Hematopoietic Stem/Progenitor Cell Expansion and ERK1/2-Mediated Differentiation α-Tocopherol induces expansion of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells by a nonidentified intracellular pathway and granulocytic/monocytic differentiation through ERK1/2 activation. [ J Leukoc Biol ] Abstract CLINICAL RESEARCH Multivariable Model for Time to First Treatment in Patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Scientists developed a multivariable model that incorporates traditional and newer prognostic factors to identify patients at high risk for progression to treatment. [ J Clin Oncol ] Abstract Second Cancer Risk After Chemotherapy for Hodgkin's Lymphoma: A Collaborative British Cohort Study Researchers investigated the long-term risk of second primary malignancy after chemotherapy for Hodgkin's lymphoma in a much larger cohort than any yet published. [ J Clin Oncol ] Abstract Presence of FLT 3 - ITD and High BAALC Expression Are Independent Prognostic Markers in Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia Mutation status of the FLT3 , NPM1 , CEBPA , and WT1 genes and gene expression levels of ERG , MN1 , BAALC , FLT3 , and WT1 have been identified as possible prognostic markers in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Researchers have performed a thorough prognostic evaluation of these genetic markers in pediatric AML patients enrolled in the NOPHO 1993 or NOPHO 2004 protocols. [ Blood ] Abstract Donor-Specific Anti-HLA Antibodies and Graft Failure in Matched Unrelated Donor Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Investigators hypothesize that donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies against a mismatched HLA-DPB1 locus is associated with graft failure in matched unrelated donor transplantations. [ Blood ] Abstract INDUSTRY NEWS Loyola Receives Grant for Pediatric Leukemia Research Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine received a $100,000 grant to support research to treat an aggressive form of pediatric leukemia. [Newswise] Press Release $9 Million Grant Fuels Sickle Cell Study The Boston University team recently received a five-year, $9 million grant from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health to grow induced pluripotent stem cells as well as generate a living library of genetic variations of sickle cell disease. [Boston University] Press Release Aastrom Granted European Composition-of-Matter Patent for Ixmyelocel-T Aastrom Biosciences, Inc. announced that it has been granted a key composition of matter patent from the European Patent Office. [Aastrom Biosciences, Inc.] Press Release LLS Applauds Nobel Laureates in Medicine for their Work in Immunotherapy and its Potential for Cancer Patients The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (LLS) congratulates Bruce Beutler, M.D., Jules Hoffmann, Ph.D., and Ralph Steinman, M.D., the three winners of the Nobel Prize in medicine. The work for which they are being recognized formed the foundation of immunotherapy which holds great promise for the cancer community. [Leukemia & Lymphoma Society] Press Release President Obama Honors Outstanding Early-Career Scientists President Obama named 94 researchers as recipients of the Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, the highest honor bestowed by the United States government on science and engineering professionals in the early stages of their independent research careers. [The White House] Press Release POLICY NEWS International Society for Cellular Therapy (ISCT) Leads Roundtable with Major US Payors, Healthcare Providers and Industry to Initiate a Collaboration to Address Cell Therapy Product Reimbursement In keeping with its mission to drive the commercialization of cell therapy products and advance global patient access, ISCT hosted its second event this year in its Commercial Development Series, this time focusing on the timely issue of reimbursement for cell therapy and regenerative medicine products in the US market. [International Society for Cellular Therapy, United States] Press Release Center for Scientific Review; Notice of Closed Meetings [FR Doc No: 2011-24940] [National Institutes of Health, United States] National Institutes of Health (United States) Food and Drug Administration (United States) Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (United States) European Medicines Agency (European Union) Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (United Kingdom) Therapeutic Goods Administration (Australia) EVENTS NEW Stem Cells in Drug Discovery and Development November 2-3, 2011 San Diego, United States Visit our events page to see a complete list of events in the hematopoietic community JOB OPPORTUNITIES Lab Technologist – Tissue Culture (STEMCELL Technologies) Research and Development Technologist, hPSC Media (STEMCELL Technologies) Scientist (iPSC) (STEMCELL Technologies) Contract Assay Service Technologist (STEMCELL Technologies) Postdoctoral Fellows - Blood Systems Research Institute (University of California, San Francisco) Postdoctoral Position in Hematopoietic Stem Cells and Signaling Transduction (University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine) Postdoctoral Positions in Stem Cells and Immunology (University of Connecticut) Recruit Top Talent Reach more than 11,000 potential candidates by posting your organization's career opportunities on the Connexon Creative Job Board at no cost . Jobs are categorized regionally: United States , Canada , Europe , Asia Pacific Visit here to post your career opportunities. Have we missed an important article or publication in Hematopoiesis News? Click here to submit! Comments or Suggestions? Email info@connexoncreative.com with your feedback. Learn more about Hematopoiesis Cell News: Archives | Events | Contact Us Sui