
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 05 May 2012 18:11:02 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.64 (Red Hat)
Set-Cookie: PHPSESSID=3216be185ae7e3d45c2698a728e7c6e4
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Glasgow Hypnotherapy, Weight loss Hypnotherapy ,Stop smoking Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy Zone Glasgow Kim McIlwham SQHP 0141 583 4258 07557 349 269 Home About Services Costs Health & Wellness Testimonials Contact Me Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Phobias ▶ Stress Management EFT Hypnotherapy & NLP Our goal is to provide you with the right tools to help you resolve issues and find solutions. Short Term Therapy - Long Term Results latest Client Review Hi Kim after one session with you, I felt a weight lift off my shoulders that I had  arrived my whole life. your calming energy combined with your professionalism made me relax completely which allowed you to really help me, I am making real progress day by day and. Nothing will ever make me go back to my old ways, thank you so much Elena S Hi Kim I cannot thank you enough for helping me over come my concern when walking at  heights. Since my visit i have been on a few walks and have been able to  appreciate the views and everything around me without been overly concerned with  the drop below whilst still been aware of the dangers.Many thanks again and  here's to many more enjoyable days on the hills. Paul Hi Kim I hve been smoke free now for 6 weekds since meeting with you. I never thought it was possible having tried all forms of NRT, medication and failing each time. Since hypnosis and just having a chat with you, my entire attitude has changed. I no longer fell like cigarettes control my daily routine, I dont think about smoking anymore, even during stressful times. I cannot thank you enough for your help, the work you do is truly amazing and I would fully recommend anyone wishing to make a real poitive step in life to you. Thank you again Stuart R Hi Kim Just wanted to let you know that  I havent had a ciggarette since coming to see you 2nd December 2012, Neither has my mum since she came in August. I'm really amazed and delighted that it has worked. Many Thanks Karen D Hi Kim, I can't thank you enough. Two days after my first session for weight loss, not only did i no longer want biscuits after my meals, I totally forgot all about the biscuit, I didn't even give it a second thought. After the second session we had friends over for dinner , my son was horrified to find no pudding with double cream, totally unheard of in my household, I honestly did not give pudding a thought, I have now had my third session and my bad eating habits have been totally turned around.  I wish I had visited  you years ago.  I had tried every diet on the planet. I am not on a diet now. I just do not eat or think about eating all the time and my weight is going down 2-3  pounds a week.  Once again a great big thank you, I will keep in touch with my progress. Love Teresa. Hypnotherapy  Articles How one in five have given up smoking Weight Loss Hypnosis  Statistics Hypnotherapy treatment for Irritable Bowel Syndrome Liz McClarnon: Hypnotherapy helped me ditch junk food BBC NEWS Hypnosis can double the succes of IVF treatment Hypnosis eases Cancer op pain A Randomized Clinical Trial of a Brief Hypnosis Intervention to control side effects in Breast Surgery Patients Contact Me Here to ask any questions Name: Number: Email: Message: Calender March S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 SERVICES I can address a wide range of conditions and areas, including: Weight Loss Stop Smoking Fear of Flying Fear of Spiders Social Phobia Blushing Panic Attacks Anxiety Addiction Low Self-Esteem Life Purpose Weight Control Nail Biting Hair Pulling Social Axiety Public Speaking Body Image Self Improvement Trauma Depression Relationships Sleep Disorders Pain Public Speaking Stress IVF Natural Childbirth Be more Confident Are  you waking up in the morning feeling that life is good or do you feel  that it is somehow unfair? Do you have things in your life that are  making you unhappy about or are causing you some concerns? Would you  like to release your full potential or explore your feelings so that you  can understand how you feel or what may be happening to you? Perhaps  you have developed one or two ‘bad habits’ that have become a routine  part of your life? Did you know that hypnotherapy could be the answer  you are looking for to help you with your problems and release you from  possible addictive actions? If you honestly feel that hypnotherapy eft (emotional freedom techniques) or nlp (neuro-linquistic programming) could help, then welcome to the Plink Plus Page for Therapy Zone in Glasgow. I  am a Senior Member of the GHR and as an experienced Hypnotherapist  offer the latest techniques in Hypnotherapy and NLP and also integrating  EFT Click on the link above to enter the main site for indepth information on how I can help you with all kinds of things Stop Smoking Weight Loss Anxiety and Panic Attacks Stress Management Fear of Driving Fears and all Kinds of Phobias often in a single session resolved Confidence Issues Social Anxiety Sleep disturbance Fear of Flying Fear of Spiders Hypnotherapy can help often when nothing else seems to Locations we serve: Glasgow ,  East Renfrewshire In spite of whatever tribulations or phobias may be worrying you, as a hypnotherapy, nlp or eft practitioner in Glasgow, through the power of hypnosis nlp or eft , you will be helped and supported in taking control of those areas within your life that you feel need assistance In the course of many years of experience working with hypnosis, fears and phobias , at Therapy Zone in Glasgow we can give assurance to you of the positive steps we will take together through the medium of nlp , hypnosis and eft .  Our hypnotherapy sessions will allow you to develop a more optimistic  and beneficial view on life that only hypnotherapy can offer. You will  be able to gain help and support with such problems as anxiety , confidence , driving anxiety , hypnotherapy low self esteem , low self esteem, smoking hypnotherapy, stop smoking , stress , stress management and weight loss hypnotherapy . Hypnotherapy  practitioners, particularly those at Therapy Zone in Glasgow, are  absolutely aware of the enduring problems and issues that life presents  to us from time to time. Therefore, we can help set your mind at rest to  the positivity that hypnotherapy nlp and eft can present, especially with our hypnosis, fears and phobias services. As an expansively trained and qualified hypnosis fears and  phobias practitioner, the areas of therapy we offer and provide include:  - ·	Anxiety ·	Confidence ·	Driving Anxiety ·	Hypnotherapy Low Self Esteem ·	Low Self Esteem ·	Smoking Hypnotherapy ·	Stop Smoking ·	Stress ·	Stress Management ·	Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Despite  what area of your life you believe needs reviewing and working on,  contact us at Therapy Zone in Glasgow so can spend some time with you  discussing your concerns and worries. Through a course of hypnotherapy, nlp or eft sessions we can set in motion improvements to those areas of your life that have been causing you much trouble. Contact me at Therapy Zone for further information and let us help you find the peace of mind and quality of life you deserve. Month (Show as List) | Week | Future | Past March 2012 Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Hypnosis Workshop: Learn More & Purchase Ticket 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 © Hypnotherapy in Glasgow Weight loss hypnotherapy in Glasgow, Hypnosis weight loss Glasow, Hypnotherapy weigh loss, Hypnotherapy stop smoking Glasgow, Stop smoking hypnosis, Stop smoking hypnosis glasgow, stop smoking in glasgow,  hypnotherapy for blushing, hypnosis for blushing glasgow, hypnosis social anxiety, glasgow hypnotist, glasgow hypnotherapist, hypnotherapis in glasgow, hypnotherapy for exam nerves, hypnothrapy driving tests, hypnotherapy glasgow phobia, fear of flying hypnotherapy, fear of flying hypnotherapy glasgow, panic attacks hypnotherapy Powered by http://www.hotdoodle.com, HotDoodle™ Custom Web Design and Quality Affordable Website Designers for Small Businesses and Professionals Affordable Website Designers for Web Site You Edt Site Map Taxes, Bookkeeping, Accounting in the East Bay Area Car and Auto mechanic in the Fremont East bay area Colloidal silver maker Vogue PROSTHETIC ORTHOTIC CARE  Northridge, Thouand Oaks, 