Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Weight Loss Surgery: Post-Operative Recovery weight loss information com Weight Loss Surgery: Post-Operative 
        Recovery Nutritional Eating and Diet Problems After 
        Bariatric Stomach Reduction Operation Diet and Weight Loss Info - About 
        Weight Reduction Page 5. Teens and Weight Loss Surgery Once patients recover, they must follow 
        stringent rules: They eat small servings, carefully counting to get enough 
        protein. They take vitamins and calcium to counter nutrient deficiencies, 
        including bone loss. Gorging causes vomiting. The body 
              no longer processes sugar properly, so too much causes dizziness 
              and diarrhea. Regularly breaking the rules can bring back the weight. Such changes are hard enough for 
              adults. So the pending pediatric weight loss surgery guidelines 
              stress having experts evaluate if a teen is mature enough, and has 
              stable family support, to follow the rules before surgery is offered. As for size, obesity is measured 
              with a height-to-weight ratio called the body mass index. A BMI 
              of 30 is obese - for someone of 5-feet-8 it's 197 pounds. For teen weight loss surgery candidates, 
        the new guidelines will recommend a BMI of 40 - an additional 60 pounds 
        - plus serious obesity-caused illnesses; or a BMI of 50 if they have less 
        serious obesity-related problems, such as being maliciously teased. Adults, in contrast, qualify with a BMI 
        of 35 plus obesity-caused illness. ------------------------------------------------------- Page 
        1 - Page 2 - Page 
        3 - Page 4 Source: TheWBALChannel.com 2003 Weight Loss Surgery - No Guarantees Gastrointestinal weight loss surgery is not an easy weight loss option. 
        It's a serious surgical procedure whose long-term weight loss success 
        depends on a patient's commitment to diet and behavior modification for 
        life, along with exercise for weight control. See also: Weight 
  Loss Surgery Candidates Normal Digestive Process - Bypass Raises Life 
  Expectancy - Gastric 
  Bypass Bariatric Surgery: 
  Benefits - Surgery: 
  Risks - Origins - Abdominoplasty 
  to Remove Loose Skin Adjustable Gastric Banding - Lap Band - Lap Band System - Jaw Wiring 
  for Super-Obese Duodenal Switch - Biliopancreatic Diversion 
  Stomach Bypass - Roux-en-Y 
  Gastric Bypass Vertical Banded Gastroplasty - Malabsorptive Surgery - Restrictive Surgery - Questions Obesity and 
  Bariatric Surgery - Risks 
  of Bariatric Surgery - Stomach 
  Reduction Surgery Weight Reduction 
  Surgery - Bypass & Nutrional Deficiency - Surgery & Health Risks Is Surgery Safe? - Success - Is Surgery 
  More Effective Than Dieting - Surgery 
  & Mortality Return to Facts 
        About Surgery for Weight Loss INFORMATION ABOUT BODY WEIGHT and BODY FAT Weight Estimate - Healthy 
        Weight Range - Body Weight Composition - Body Fat Guidelines - Healthy 
        Body Fat Percentage - Healthy 
        Waist Circumference Body Mass Index Calculator - Weight 
        Chart - Weight Loss Tools - Healthy Weight Loss Diet - Healthy 
        Balanced Diet - Calorie Needs to Maintain 
        Weight Calorie Needs to Lose Weight - Exercise to Lose Weight - Guide to Metabolism WEIGHT MANAGEMENT and FAT REDUCTION How to Lose Weight - Fast 
        Weight Loss - Lose Weight and Reduce 
        Fat - Types of Weight Loss Programs - Reviews of Weight Loss Diets - Weight Cycling Weight Loss Advice - Weight 
        Reduction for Diabetics - Weight 
        Loss for Teenagers - How to Control 
        Weight - Effective Weight Management How to Maintain Weight - Weight 
        Loss Advice for Women - Weight 
        Control in Pregnancy - Weight 
        Control in Menopause - Weight 
        Loss Questions DIFFERENT WAYS TO LOSE FAT Surgery For Weight Loss - Gastrointestinal 
        Surgery - Bariatric 
        Gastric Bypass Surgery - Benefits 
        & Risks of Bariatric Surgery - Guide 
        to Diet Pills Guide to Weight Loss Drugs - Obesity 
        Drug Treatment - Guide to Weight 
        Loss Pills - Weight Loss 
        Supplements - Healthy Weight 
        Loss Diet Program Atkins Diet - South 
        Beach Diet - Weight 
        Watchers - Zone Diet - Weight 
        Loss Program DIETARY HEALTH and DIET SUPPORT Weight & Health - Weight 
        Loss Guidelines For Adults - Obesity Facts - Obesity Health Risks - Treatment 
        of Obesity - Hypothyroidism Guide Dietary Guidelines - Types 
        of Diets - Cholesterol Diet - Cholesterol - Weight 
        Loss Support - Weight Management 
        Information - Weight Loss Resources This site provides general information about 
        how to reduce weight and weight maintenance, featuring articles on a variety 
        of weight-related topics like obesity and overweight, calorie reduction, 
        exercise expenditure, healthy eating plans and dietary nutrition, as well 
        as fat loss, healthy body fat and more. If you are concerned about your 
        weight, for optimum health please talk to your doctor or health care provider 
        before embarking on a new diet, fitness or weig