Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Urinary Tract Infection Home > Diseases & Conditions > Urinary Tract Infection Urinary Tract Infection General Information Doctor Visit Treatment Medications Tests Overview Symptoms Causes Risk Factors Prevention Sources Symptoms Symptoms of urinary tract infection include: Burning feeling when urinating Frequent urges to urinate Pain in the back or lower abdomen Tiredness and shakiness Cloudy, dark, bloody or unusual-smelling urine Mild fever Prevention UTIs are easily preventable... After urination or a bowel movement, women should wipe from front to back. Go to the bathroom often. Don't hold urine for a long time. Keep the genital area clean and dry. Women should change tampons regularly. Women should avoid frequent bubble baths, which can cause irritation of the vaginal area. Don't wear nylon underwear or wet swimsuits for too long. These can be a breeding ground for bacteria. Wearing underwear with cotton crotches can help dry out the area. If you are sexually active, go to the bathroom before and 15 minutes after sexual activity. Afterwards, wash the genital area. For women who need lubrication during intercourse, use a water-soluble lubricant. Drinking lots of water keeps the bladder clear of bacteria. Empty your bladder every three to four hours during the day. Don't use douches, sprays, spermicides and vaginal deodorants because they can kill good bacteria. Someday a vaccine may be available to prevent UTIs. Scientists have found people with recurring infections lack proteins called immunoglobulins in their genital and urinary tracts. These proteins help the body fight infection. More on Urinary Tract Infection The Power of Cranberry Juice Bladder Infections and E. Coli This article was reviewed and updated June 2007. Return to the previous page Disclaimer: The text presented on these pages is for your information only. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice. It may not represent your true individual medical situation. Do not use this information to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease without consulting a qualified health care provider. Please consult your health care provider if you have any questions or concerns. Copyright © 1999-2005 Medical Network Inc. All rights reserved. No part of the contents of this web site may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the written permission of the publisher. "HealthAtoZ.com" should be prominently displayed on any material reproduced with the publisher's consent. We subscribe t