
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 16:54:00 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.13
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: frontend=17cdefef2c8380012e6785ad0fad19ca; expires=Thu, 15-Mar-2012 17:54:00 GMT; path=/; domain=www.seaweedbathco.com; httponly
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Organic Seaweed | Kukui Oil | Neem Oil | Other Natural Ingredients JavaScript seem to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. The Seaweed Bath Co. Receive 10% off your next order when you sign up! Your Cart (6 items) My Account Log In Blog Store Locator Contact Us shop testimonials press faq Home » Our Natural Ingredients Our Natural Ingredients Brown Seaweed For generations, cultures around the world have used the power of seaweed to help soothe the symptoms of irritated, flaking and scaling skin. Today, seaweed-based bath products are an integral part of both Thalassotherapy and Balneotherapy --holistic water-based therapies that help manage the skin conditions associated with psoriasis and eczema . The Seaweed Bath Co. was founded by Adam Grossman, who sought an affordable way to bring the ocean and its healing qualities into his home. Having seen the powerful benefits of seaweed on his flaking and red skin, Adam decided that the benefits of his all-natural seaweed products were too remarkable to keep under wraps. Today, The Seaweed Bath Co. imports seaweed from the nutrient-rich waters surrounding Nova Scotia and Ireland to create the highest quality, all-natural products . The Seaweed Bath Co. products incorporate two brown seaweeds: Fucus Vesiculosus and Fucus Serratus . These seaweeds are rich in essential and non-essential amino acids found in your skin. Amino acids can help to hydrate dry skin and alleviate flaking, scaling and red skin often associated with certain skin conditions. Soaking in a seaweed bath allows your body to easily absorb a large amount of valuable nutrients, amino acids and oils that nourish the skin. The nutrients in The Seaweed Bath Co.'s seaweed bath products soothe irritated, red skin by increasing pH alkaline levels in the bloodstream while simultaneously reducing acidity levels in the body and the skin. "Iodine works to help cure illnesses and balance Ph levels throughout the body. As the skin is the largest organ in the body, the trace minerals and iodine found in this seaweed are conducive to healthy skin and therefore have a positive affect on the conditions that lead to skin irritation." Dr. Aaron Chadwick, Director of Florida Natural Healthcare "Seaweed is a natural source of Omega-3 fats which are helpful for psoriasis and eczema." Dr. Edwards, Director of the Center for Integrative Medicine at the Cleveland Clinic Kukui Oil from Hawaii Brought to Hawaii by early Polynesian settlers, the Kukui Nut Tree is so embedded in Hawaiian culture that it is the state tree of Hawaii.  Our pure Kukui Oil, rich in oleic, linoleic and linolenic acids, is a potent natural moisturizer that helps to soothe your irritated skin. Argan Oil from Morocco Our Argan Oil comes from Morocco, where it is extracted from the nuts of the indigenous Argania Spinosa Tree, one of the rarest trees on Earth.  Argan Oil is revered worldwide for its moisturizing and soothing properties.   Rich in vitamin E and essential fatty acids, our organic Argan Oil from Morocco naturally comforts and nourishes irritated skin. Dead Sea Salt from Israel Our Dead Sea Salt, extracted from the world-renowned, mineral-rich waters of the Dead Sea in Israel, contains a variety of essential minerals including Magnesium, Calcium, Sodium, Bromide and Potassium, which work to reduce dryness, redness, flaking, and scaling by naturally softening and nourishing the skin. Aloe Vera Aloe Vera is a succulent plant grown throughout the world.  Aloe’s long green leaves contain aloe gel, which has been used for thousands of years to heal wounds and sooth the skin.  Today, Aloe is used in many products, including cosmetics, skin lotions, moisturizers, burn gels and sunscreens.  Aloe Vera contains numerous vitamins and minerals, enzymes, amino acids, natural sugars and agents which have anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial properties Neem Oil Neem Oil is derived from the leaves found on the Indian Neem Tree. This unique oil is high in Vitamin E and in fatty acids that help moisturize your skin and fight flaking. Beeswax In its natural state, beeswax is firm but pliable. Melted and combined with other ingredients, beeswax adds body to skin care products. Like other beehive products, including honey and royal jelly, beeswax offers anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and antiviral benefits as well as offering potential benefits when treating skin irritation Vitamin E Vitamin E constitutes a family of 8 antioxidants, which include 4 tocopherols and 4 tocotrienols.  Vitamin E is a natural antioxidant and anti-inflammatory that helps protect cells against damage caused by free radicals. Thalassotherapy and Balneotherapy Info: our natural ingredients psoriasis & eczema faq eczema information psoriasis information thalassotherapy & balneotherapy psoriasis resources Navigation: home seaweed bath products cart adam’s psoriasis story blog contact about us privacy policy shipping and returns sitemap © 2