<http://wp.me/p1uzK9-qb>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

What is Aloe Vera - Its Medicinal Components and Benefits | Herbal DB Herbal DB Home Ayurvedic Herbs Information Popular Ayurvedic Herbs Products Buy Ayurvedic Herbs Bitter Melon Information Health Benefits for Diabetes Cooking Products Supplements Drink Buy Bitter Melon Fennel Seeds Information Medical Uses Products Recipes Buy Fennel Seeds Fenugreek Information Health Benefits Products Buy Fenugreek Gymnema Sylvestre Information Health Benefits Products Buy Gymnema Sylvestre Pau D’Arco Health Benefits Buy Pau D’ Arco Saw Palmetto Information Health Benefits Products Buy Saw Palmetto What is Aloe Vera – Its Medicinal Components and Benefits October 9, 2011 Sponsored by: Recently, the use of alternative medicine in North America has been in constant increase. Alternative medicine can be defined as a term encompassing the broad spectrum of supposed medicinal agents that include herbal and homeopathic substances as well as the services offered by homeopaths, chiropractors and massage therapists. Eisenberg et al reported a nearly fivefold increase of adults using herbal medicine in United States from 1990 to 1997. In two studies conducted in New York and California, 56% and 43% in that order, respondents reported the use of some forms of alternative medicine. The success of herbs as supplements or replacements for conventional treatment is soaring to greater heights and one notable herb on the list is aloe vera . What is aloe vera? Aloe vera is widely used today in Chinese, Indian and Western traditional medicine. Even today, Aloe vera is a valuable ingredient in pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries, mainly in California, for its great moisturizing property. Aloe vera is a short-stemmed perennial, succulent plant that grows 60 – 100 centimeters, spreading by offsets. The spear-like leaves are thick, tough and fleshy, and may grow until 36 inches long. On top of that, the leaves’ color ranges from grey-green to green with other varieties characterized by white spots on the lower and upper stem surfaces. The inner part of the leaf is composed of clear, thick gel that is usually applied to minor cuts and burns. The plant produces flowers during summer on its spikes. What Is Aloevera and Its Active Components Although aloe vera leaf contains 99% water, it also contains over 200 different active components. Aloe vera gel consists of glycoprotein and polysaccharides. Glycoprotein is a protein-carbohydrate compound, and is known to speed up healing processes by alleviating pain and inflammation. On another note, polysaccharides hasten skin cell regeneration and repair. Other constituents include acemannan, aloe-emodin, aloins, barbaloins and isobarbaloins, amino acids, amorphous alons, enzymes, essential fatty acids, essential oil, glactomannans, minerals, resin, vitamins C & E and zinc. The History of Aloe Vera What is aloe vera and its traditional uses? The history of aloe vera use dates back thousands of years ago. Recorded history claims that Ancient Egyptians were one of the first to have used and understood aloe vera for its numerous health benefits and healing qualities. Aloe vera was known to be one of the most effective herbal plants throughout the world. Native in Africa, its uses spread to the ancient Persian, Russian, Indian, Japanese and Chinese healers. Brief Description of Its Uses What is aloe vera and its benefits? Amongst its important benefits are moisturizing and softening of skin, a soothing effect on various skin irritations (burns, insect bites and cuts), speeding up of wound healing, remedy for constipation, diarrhea and other GIT complaints, and general improvement of body functions. It also helps in fighting fungi and pathogenic bacteria inside the body as well as enhances the effect of sunscreen products. This plant is readily available; some people even plant aloe vera in pots and display it on their kitchen. As such, one can open a leaf spike and use it as instant remedy for burns or cuts. Share: Related posts you might be interested in: Aloe Vera Herb Benefits Aloe Vera Juice – Its Benefits and Tips on Making It at Home Consumer Tips When You Buy Aloe Vera What Are the Beneficial Effects of Aloe Vera for Hair Issues? The Healing Power of Ayurvedic Herbs Powder Related Posts you might be interested in: Aloe Vera Herb Benefits What Are the Beneficial Effects of Aloe Vera for Hair Issues? Consumer Tips When You Buy Aloe Vera Tagged as: What is Aloe Vera Cancel reply Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Previous post: Top Benefits of Fenugreek Products Next post: Aloe Vera Juice – Its Benefits and Tips on Making It at Home Products: Ayurvedic Herbs Products Bitter Melon Products Fennel Seeds Products Fenugreek Products Gymnema Sylvestre Products Saw Palmetto Products Basic Information: Ayurvedic Herbs Bitter Melon Fennel Seeds Fenugreek Gymnema Sylvestre Pau D' Arco Saw Palmetto Baobab Categories Aloe Vera (4) Aloe Vera Health Benefits (1) Aloe Vera Information (1) Aloe Vera Products (1) Buy Aloe Vera (1) Ayurvedic Herbs (25) Ayurvedic Herbs Information (5) Ayurvedic Herbs Products (6) Buy Ayurvedic Herbs (1) Popular Ayurvedic Herbs (12) Baobab (19) Baobab Health Benefits (7) Baobab Information (4) Baobab Products (7) Buy Baobab (1) Bitter Melon (37) Bitter Melon Health Benefits (8) Bitter Melon for Diabetes (1) Bitter Melon Information (6) Bitter Melon Products (13) Bitter Gourd Drink (3) Bitter Gourd Supplements (4) Buy Bitter Melon (2) Cooking Bitter Melon (7) Fennel Seeds (22) Buy Fennel Seeds (1) Fennel Seeds Information (6) Fennel Seeds Medical Uses (8) Fennel Seeds Products (3) Fennel Seeds Recipes (3) Fenugreek (30) Buy Fenugreek (1) Fenugreek Health Benefits (8) Fenugreek Information (6) Fenugreek Products (14) Gymnema Sylvestre (15) Buy Gymnema Sylvestre (1) Gymnema Sylvestre Health Benefits (5) Gymnema Sylvestre Information (4) Gymnema Sylvestre Products (4) Herbal Videos (6) Pau D' Arco (2) Pau D' Arco Information (2) Saw Palmetto (18) Buy Saw Palmetto (1) Saw Palmetto Health Benefits (6) Saw Palmetto Information (4) Saw Palmetto Products (6) Herbs for Curing Ailments Acne and Other Skin Problems Acute Viral Hepatitis Anaemia Anxiety and Depression Asthma Bad Breath (Halitosis) Breast Enlargement Cancer Colic Constipation Diabetes Diarrhea Eye Problems Fever Gastric Ailments (Indigestion) Hair Loss Hangovers Hemoptysis Hypertension Immune System Weakness Inflammations Liver Disease Low Breast Milk Production Low Libido Menopausal Symptoms Mushroom Poisoning Nausea Opiate Withdrawal Prostatic Problems Tooth Decay Vitamin C Deficiency Weight Loss Looking for an Herbal remedy for your ailment? Search HerbalDB by typing the problem below. Subscription Options: Topics Covered: Ayurvedic Herbs Bitter Melon Fenugreek Gymnema Sylvestre Saw Palmetto Fennel Seeds Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 January 2011 Health Himalayan Salt Kefir Grains Wheatgrass Juicer Your Kefir Source City From Rome US$49 Beijing US$15 London US$29 Shanghai US$28 Venice US$64 Prague US$29 Istanbul US$25 New York US$31 Madrid US$43 Marrakech US$35 Sydney US$24 Inside HerbalDB About Us Archives Contact Us Sitemap Disclaimer Information on this web site is provided for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for the advice provided by your physician or other health care professional. You should not use the information on this web site for diagnosing or treating a health problem or disease, or prescribing any medication or other treatment. Copyright &copy 2011 HerbalDB . All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, pl