
How can women prevent urinary tract infections? : Student Health Services The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People OSU Webmail Search Ohio State Skip navigation, view page content Student Health Services Home About Us Services MyBuckMD Student Parent Forms Directory Student Health Services Blog Submit any health, nutrition, dental, or optometry question to BuckMD at buckmd@studentlife.osu.edu . Administered by John Vaughn, MD Subscribe Blog RSS Feed Tags about us ADD African American health alcohol allergies Asian health birth control cardiovascular health complementary and alternative medicine dental health disabilities drug abuse ear nose and throat health emergency preparedness environmental health environmental medicine exercise eye health flu gastrointestinal health Get Yourself Tested GYT H1N1 healthy lifestyles hematologic health immunizations & vaccines in the classroom infectious disease influenza injuries insurance just for fun LGBT health medical mythbusters! medical records medication meningitis mens health mental health musculoskeletal health neurological health News You Cant Use nutrition oral health patient safety pertussis Real to Reel Video Contest sexual health skin health smoking cessation tobacco travel medicine urinary health violence weight loss womens health How can women prevent urinary tract infections? infectious disease womens health Posted: October 28, 2009 (3) Comments Images photo: wikimedia commons Q : How can women prevent urinary tract infections? A : Urinary tract infections ("bladder infections" or "UTI's") are much more common in women than men mostly due to anatomy: women's urethras are much shorter.  Most women experience at least one UTI in their lifetime and many especially unlucky ladies experience multiple UTIs. In one study, 27% of college women with UTI had recurrence of their UTI within 6 months. The most common cause of a UTI is bacteria that live in and around the anus.  These critters can travel to the urethra, especially during sex or when wiping from back to front after going to the bathroom. So what can you do to prevent them?! Avoid the use of spermicides, which can harm the normal "healthy" vaginal bacteria Drink plenty of fluids and urinating after sex to "flush out" bad bacteria Drink cranberry juice, which acidifies the urine and helps prevent bacteria from clinging to the wall of the bladder where they cause infection Make sure to wipe front to back every time you go to the bathroom Some women who have frequent UTI's may need daily antibiotics to prevent them If you have symptoms of a urinary tract infection - burning with urination, blood in your urine, urinary urgency (the need to go "all of a sudden"), urinary frequency or cloudy/foul smelling urine - be sure to see your health care provider for evaluation.  If left untreated, UTI's can occasionally progress into more serious infections of the kidneys. Angela Walker, Med IV (Ohio State College of Medicine) Sheila Westendorf, MD (Ohio State Student Health Services) Comments Wednesday, October 28, 2009 12:05:43 AM Posted by: Anonymous Is there something wrong if a woman has frequent UTI's (Once a month) ? Thursday, October 29, 2009 8:26:54 AM Posted by: Dr. Westendorf Recurrent urinary tract infections are defined as 3 or more over the course of 12 months.  Many times there is no specific cause for these reoccurrences, but occasionally there is.  Regardless, there are options available to you to help prevent recurrent urinary tract infections so you may want to have a conversation with your physician about this matter. Thursday, October 29, 2009 6:33:03 PM Posted by: buckeyebetty It might not always be the woman's fault if she gets recurrent infections, try asking your partner to wash his hands before sex and you might cut down the number of infections! Add a Comment The Ohio State University Office of Student Life Associations The Joint Commission American College Health Association Student Health Services 1875 Millikin Road Columbus, OH 43210 Phone: (614) 292-4321 shs@osu.edu © 2012, Student Health Services.  All rights reserved. If you have trouble accessing this page and need to request an alternate format, please contact the Student Life