
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 21:36:43 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alcohol Detox Treatment Facility in Florida - Sunrise Detox DETOX HOME ABOUT US | Our Staff Detox FAQ TESTIMONIALS UROD MYTHS Drug Rehab LINKS Sunrise Detox SITE MAP CONTACT Sunrise Detox Center Sunrise Detox Alumni Opiate Detox Alcohol Detox Benzodiazepines and Barbiturates Methadone Treatment Chronic Pain - Prescription Drug Addiction Ask Our Doctor Self Pay Info Addict to Addict Length of Stay Am I Covered? Alcohol Detox and Withdrawal Alcohol is by far the most commonly abused drug in the United States. Government estimates say that more than 17 million Americans have a substance abuse issue with alcohol. A good percentage of these are heavy, daily drinkers. Consuming large quantities of alcohol on a regular basis can make the body dependent. In the most severe cases, alcohol withdrawal results in a condition called delirium tremens (D.T.'s), which can be fatal if not properly treated. The classic sign of alcohol withdrawal is the "shakes" -- uncontrollable tremors that set in about 6 hours after the last drink. Thus many alcoholics need to drink alcohol in the morning just to steady their hands. Common symptoms of alcohol withdrawal include the following: • Tremors (shakes) • Irritability • Insomnia • Seizures • Nausea / vomiting • Hallucinations • Delusions • Agitation • Rapid heart rate • High blood pressure Due to the possibility of seizures and D.T.s, it is necessary for people in alcohol withdrawal to be monitored closely by medical staff. At Sunrise Detox, we have an effective alcohol detox protocol that keeps our clients safe and comfortable during the detoxification process. Medications are used to prevent seizures and the onset of D.T.s, and our staff closely monitors the client's vital signs. Detox Home | About Sunrise Detox | Medical Detox Staff | Detoxification FAQ | Testimonials | UROD Myths | Drug Rehab Links | Site Map | Contact Us Opiate Detox | Alcohol Detox | Benzodiazepines and Barbiturates - Prescription Drug Detox | Methadone Detox Treatment | Chronic Pain Treatment Terms & Conditions/Privacy Policy | ©2007-2008, Sunrise Detox, LLC. | All