
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:50:14 GMT
Server: Apache
Content-language: en
Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
Expires: Thu, 01 Jan 1970 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: private, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Last-Modified: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 17:57:35 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Wounds - open and non healing - GIST Support Log in GIST Support Wiki This will take you to the page you typed to the left. If it does not exist, you will have the opportunity to create it and will be shown search results for similar pages. This searches the titles and content of the wiki pages for the term you typed. Main Page | Recent changes | All pages | Upload image View source History Wounds - open and non healing A contact of mine, (not a gister but he had another kind of cancer), had
a wound which had not healed for six months after his surgery. None of
the conventional treatments helped.  He tried Manuka honey, just used on the wound.  It worked.  Within a week the wound had started healing and was very soon totally healed. Google "Manuka Honey", and you will see that it is undergoing
trials in New Zealand, where it comes from.  It might work, and is unlikely to make things worse, just a bit sticky! Dr did start him on the honey patch about 3 weeks ago, Very messy to work with.  It has not healed anything but does seem to have kept it from getting a lot worse. As long as he takes Sutent I don't think it will ever heal. This brings to mind "Hyberbaric OxygenTreatment".  I just completed HBO Therapy for Global bleeding in my bladder. The bleeding is almost all gone and there will be residual healing continue. "Hyperbaric Oxygen Treatment" was discussed as treatment of open wounds but the consensus has been that the use of pure oxygen for treatment may cause the tumors to grow more quickly. Not enough is known about the effect of hyberbaric treatment on tumors so it was not recommended. Surprisingly since the wounds are caused by cancer drugs Medicare and Insurance will not approve treatment as we checked into that a year ago already. Retrieved from " http://gistsupport.medshelf.org/Wounds_-_open_and_non_healing " This page was last modified on 12 September 2008, at 14:07. This page has been accessed 358 times. Content is availab