
Washington County Obesity Bariatric Surgery Home Doctors Dr. Richard D. Alford Dr. Michael W. Steines Dr. Kimiye R. Cabrera Bariatrics What is Obesity Am I Obese What is Morbid Obesity Causes of Morbid Obesity Health Conditions Threats of Obesity Will Surgery Work Body Mass Index (BMI) Where do I Begin Options for Treatment Diets Have Not Worked How Does Surgery Work? How my GI Tract Works Is Surgery Right for Me? Surgery Is For Me Risks and Complications Preparation for Surgery Life After Surgery Bariatric Resources Paying for Surgery Everyone Needs Support Surgery Options Gastric Bypass Lap Band Gastric Sleeve Staff Contact Us Patient Forms FAQs FREE Seminars Before & After Pay Online St. Joseph Professional Building 2700 E. 29th Street Suite #105 Bryan , TX 77802 ph. 979-776-5631 fx. 979-776-6184 BBB Accredited Business Bariatrics » Surgery Is For Me » Life After Surgery » Bariatric Resources call 979-776-5631 Bariatric Resources You have found a resource for Obesity Bariatric Surgery in Washington County with the General & Bariatric Surgical Associates. General & Bariatric Surgical Associates has been serving the Brazos Valley and Washington County for over 19 years;  all with very low complication rates and no fatalities.   Our goal is to provide weight loss surgery, gastric bypass, gastric sleeve, lap band and Obesity Bariatric Surgery services to patients in and around Washington County with clinical outcomes that far exceed recognized standards. In the past 7 years, General & Bariatric Surgical Associates has taken a special interest in tackling the disease of obesity by offering Obesity Bariatric Surgery among other Surgery Options . If you are interested in finding out more information about Obesity Bariatric Surgery or weight loss surgery options in Washington County, please contact us.  We look forward to hearing from you!! Obesity Bariatric Surgery news: Dieticians and Nutritionists for Bariatric Patients - My Bariatric Life - HealthCentral.com A plan will be needed in order to get the proper amount of nutrients, and incorporating a dietician into your bariatric support network will prove worthwhile. Changes in Eating Habits After Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric bypass patients must acclimate to ... Bariatric Surgeons in Los Angeles Discuss Recent Gastric Sleeve Statistics - Market Wire LOS ANGELES, CA--(Marketwire - May 1, 2012) - According to the most recent statistics from the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS), obesity is a life-threatening disease that currently affects over 33% of all adults in the U.S ... Studies: Surgery trumps pills in treating obesity - Bend Bulletin In a recent study and another cited by doctors, obese patients with diabetes saw dramatically improved health measures after bariatric surgery compared with medication alone. As diabetes and obesity continue as two of America’s major health ... Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery - My Bariatric Life - HealthCentral.com Obesity in the United States has become extreme ... and an increasing number of patients are getting it in their teens. Gastric Bypass Surgery and the Remission of Diabetes Many doctors have discovered that patients who have had gastric bypass surgery ... Portrait Health Centers Provides Psychological and Nutritional Evaluations for Diabetic Patients Considering Gastric Bypass and Bariatric Surgery - msnbc.com All patients who seek surgical measures as a treatment for obesity and diabetes require a comprehensive ... Henry Warner, President of Portrait Health, explains, "Bariatric Surgeons cannot effectively do their jobs unless surgical candidates ... Washington County news: Reardon's aide refused to be interviewed by detectives, filed complaint - Seattle Times An aide to Snohomish County Executive Aaron Reardon filed an official complaint with the Washington State Patrol after refusing to be interviewed by detectives. The aide, Kevin Hulten, said he scheduled an interview in January with State Patrol ... Washington Post Revenue Falls Again In Q1; Newspaper Division Suffers Steep Losses - Huffington Post Q1 rev down 7 pct to $972.5 mln * Kaplan rev down 11 pct to $553.4 mln May 4 (Reuters) - The Washington Post Co posted a 7 percent fall in quarterly revenue, but new student enrollments at its core Kaplan education business rose for the second quarter. Washington County Father Protects Kids From Tornado - KCRG.com WASHINGTON COUNTY, Iowa - A Washington County father said he “hunkered (his three children) down in a corner on two interior walls” while a tornado passed over the home he rents Thursday night. Jeremiah Nelson said the tornado came upon the house, 3229 ... Washington County DA to seek death penalty in fatal stabbing - Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Washington County District Attorney Gene Vittone filed a notice today indicating he will seek the death penalty for Jordan Clemons, who is facing trial in the death of ex-girlfriend Karissa Kunco. Police said Mr. Clemons, 23, stabbed her to death and ... Washington Post student sign-ups rise; revenue falls - Chicago Tribune (Reuters) - The Washington Post Co posted a 7 percent fall in quarterly revenue, but new student enrollments at its core Kaplan education business rose for the second quarter. New enrollments at Kaplan, which returned to growth last quarter ... Contact Us To contact GBSA, fill out the form below. Name Phone Number E-Mail Address Interested In: General Weight Loss Surgery Gastric Bypass LAP BAND Gastric Sleeve Other Comments Submit Copyright 2009-2012 General and Bariatric Surgical Associates. All rights reserved. | Terms Of Use | P