Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8
Cache-Control: max-age=1200
X-Cache: MISS from parent3.ghm.zope.net
X-Cache: MISS from cache6.ghm.zope.net
Via: 1.0 parent3.ghm.zope.net:80 (squid/2.7.STABLE9), 1.0 cache6.ghm.zope.net:80 (squid)
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close

State officials urge caution with pertussis - Leavenworth, KS - Leavenworth Times Search our print archives » Subscribe Classifieds Autos Marketplace Jobs Place an Ad Homes Homepage News Obituaries Sports Business Lifestyle Opinions Announcements Entertainment Blogs Local Loop Contests Lansing Times Local Photos Contact Us Facebook Legal Notices Police and Fire Education Business Election Center 2011 Archives Behind the Bleachers Sports Blog Kansas basketball Big 12 basketball NFL Chiefs Kansas Football Kansas St. Football Big 12 Football Family Food Health Home and Garden Editorials Letters to the Editor Local Columnists Weddings Anniversaries Engagements Births Birthdays Arts Movies Music 2012 Red Carpet Movie Awards 2012 Red Carpet Music Awards Auto Racing Challenge College Basketball (Round) College Basketball (Upfront) FACEBOOK TWITTER Ft. Leavenworth Lamp State officials urge caution with pertussis Yellow Pages Find whatever you're looking for with Totally Local Yellow Pages Search provided by local.com Featured Business » Leavenworth Apartments Leavenworth Attorneys Leavenworth Auto Dealers Leavenworth Auto Parts Leavenworth Auto Repair Leavenworth Beauty Salons Leavenworth Car Rental Leavenworth Dentists Leavenworth Doctors Leavenworth Flowers Leavenworth Hotels Leavenworth Insurance Leavenworth Loans Leavenworth Mortgages Leavenworth Movers Leavenworth Pizza Leavenworth Realtors Leavenworth Restaurants Leavenworth Storage Leavenworth Tax Preparation Leavenworth Travel By Tim Linn GateHouse News Service Posted Feb 16, 2012 @ 09:45 AM Leavenworth, Kan. — With a recent outbreak of pertussis this year in Riley County, Kan., state and local health officials are reminding residents on ways to prevent the spread of “whooping cough.” Though the number of local cases has not been unusually high, officials from the Leavenworth County Health Department urged caution in a release last week on the disease.| “Pertussis is a very contagious respiratory disease found in humans,” the release from the department stated. “In adults, pertussis generally presents as a chronic cough that won't go away. But when an infected adult or older child is around infants, the infant breathes in the bacteria and becomes infected; for an infant, pertussis can be serious and even fatal.” The source of the disease is a bacteria. And the onset of its most recognizable symptoms can be slow — as long as two to three weeks in some cases, according to state Epidemiologist Charlie Hunt. “It’s not something that will just knock you down,” he said. “A lot of times people will be contagious or coughing for quite some time.” Hunt also said a seemingly sudden increase in cases, like the one that occurred in Riley County, is not uncommon. There have been six cases of pertussis in the last 12 months, according to Jamie Miller, director of the Leavenworth County Health Department. But of that number, only one has been reported this year. Over the same 12-month period, there were 174 reported cases of pertussis in Kansas. Hunt said the statistics may not represent the true number of incidents of pertussis, since patients might not know that they have it. There are ways to prevent or hinder the spread of the disease. The best way, according to the health department, is through vaccination. Infants, the group most at risk for contracting pertussis, can be vaccinated starting at two months. The full immunization process for infants — the diptheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine — involves a series of shots over a period of about four years, according to information from the health department. Because those younger than two months cannot be vaccinated, Hunt said adults need to be aware of their own vaccination records. “It’s really important that parents and caregivers of infants are immunized,” he said. Those that show symptoms of the disease — generally cold-like symptoms with persistent, sometimes violent coughing spells that can cause patients to make a distinctive “whooping” sound to catch their breath — should stay home or see a doctor. “These are really severe coughing fits,” Hunt said. He said pertussis can be treated with antibiotics. Pertussis vaccines are administered at the Leavenworth County Health Department. They cost $14 for children ages 18 and younger and $50 for adults. With a recent outbreak of pertussis this year in Riley County, Kan., state and local health officials are reminding residents on ways to prevent the spread of “whooping cough.” Though the number of local cases has not been unusually high, officials from the Leavenworth County Health Department urged caution in a release last week on the disease.| “Pertussis is a very contagious respiratory disease found in humans,” the release from the department stated. “In adults, pertussis generally presents as a chronic cough that won't go away. But when an infected adult or older child is around infants, the infant breathes in the bacteria and becomes infected; for an infant, pertussis can be serious and even fatal.” The source of the disease is a bacteria. And the onset of its most recognizable symptoms can be slow — as long as two to three weeks in some cases, according to state Epidemiologist Charlie Hunt. “It’s not something that will just knock you down,” he said. “A lot of times people will be contagious or coughing for quite some time.” Hunt also said a seemingly sudden increase in cases, like the one that occurred in Riley County, is not uncommon. There have been six cases of pertussis in the last 12 months, according to Jamie Miller, director of the Leavenworth County Health Department. But of that number, only one has been reported this year. Over the same 12-month period, there were 174 reported cases of pertussis in Kansas. Hunt said the statistics may not represent the true number of incidents of pertussis, since patients might not know that they have it. There are ways to prevent or hinder the spread of the disease. The best way, according to the health department, is through vaccination. Infants, the group most at risk for contracting pertussis, can be vaccinated starting at two months. The full immunization process for infants — the diptheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine — involves a series of shots over a period of about four years, according to information from the health department. Because those younger than two months cannot be vaccinated, Hunt said adults need to be aware of their own vaccination records. “It’s really important that parents and caregivers of infants are immunized,” he said. Those that show symptoms of the disease — generally cold-like symptoms with persistent, sometimes violent coughing spells that can cause patients to make a distinctive “whooping” sound to catch their breath — should stay home or see a doctor. “These are really severe coughing fits,” Hunt said. He said pertussis can be treated with antibiotics. Pertussis vaccines are administered at the Leavenworth County Health Department. They cost $14 for children ages 18 and younger and $50 for adults. Copyright 2012 Leavenworth Times. Some rights reserved Popular Videos NJ Officials Charge 29 in Counterfeit Goods Ring Raw Video: Major Storm Damage in Southern Ind. Fluke: Limbaugh called me a "slut" to silence me 3 Sorority Sisters, Wrong-way Driver Die in Ohio First Person: Survivor 'It Just Hit So Fast' Student-Teacher Couple Respond to Firestorm Loading commenting interface... Comments Thank you for the abuse report.  We will review the report and take appropriate action. Loading comments... Site Services • Contact Us • Online Forms • Place an Ad • Legal Ads • Lansing This Week • Purchase Photos Market Place • Classifieds • Shopping • Autos • Find Leavenworth jobs • Boats Magazine Community Info • City of Leavenworth • City of Lansing • Leavenworth-Lansing Area Chamber of Commerce • Leavenworth Convention and Visitors Bureau • Leavenworth School District • Fort Leavenworth • Main Street Leavenworth • Immaculata High School • Lansing High School • University of St. Mary • Department of Veteran Affairs Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Leavenworth Times |
						422 Seneca St. Leavenworth, KS 66048 Copyright © 2006-2012 GateHouse Media, Inc. Some Rights Reserved. Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. RadarFrog Merchant Di