
Cymbalta (duloxetine HCl): Official Site Sign In Prescribing Information Safety Information and Boxed Warning Medication Guide Información en Español Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Q. What is the Cymbalta Promise Program? A. The Cymbalta Promise Program is an ongoing program of news, information, and educational resources designed to help you move forward with your management of chronic low back pain. In addition, some Cymbalta patients may be eligible for the Cymbalta Promise 60-day money-back offer. Our promise to you: If you and your healthcare provider are not satisfied with your treatment with Cymbalta, you may be reimbursed up to 100% of your out-of-pocket prescription costs for the first 60 days. Restrictions apply. For full Terms and Conditions and to see if you are eligible click here . This program is not a guarantee of efficacy. It provides a trial period that may help patients and healthcare providers to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Cymbalta. Q. How do I enroll in the Cymbalta Promise Program? A. Enrollment is easy. Click here to complete the brief enrollment form. Or you may call 1-877-CYMBALTA to enroll over the phone. Q. Why enroll in the Cymbalta Promise Program? A. The Cymbalta Promise Program is designed to help you: better understand what to expect when taking Cymbalta be more prepared for visits with your healthcare provider move forward with your treatment with Cymbalta Q. What will I receive if I enroll in the Cymbalta Promise Program? A. When you enroll, you'll receive practical tools, including: an Action Planner a Doctor Discussion Guide a Progress Tracker Newsletters You may also be eligible for the Cymbalta Promise 60-day money-back offer. Our promise to you: If you and your healthcare provider are not satisfied with your treatment with Cymbalta, you may be reimbursed up to 100% of your out-of-pocket prescription costs for the first 60 days. Restrictions apply. For full Terms and Conditions and to see if you are eligible, click here . This program is not a guarantee of efficacy. It provides a trial period that may help patients and doctors to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Cymbalta. Q. What if I change my mind and no longer want to receive Cymbalta Promise Program materials? A. If you decide you do not want to receive materials at any time, please call us at 1-800-LillyRx (1-800-545-5979) or write us at Lilly USA, LLC, P.O. Box 6245, Indianapolis, IN 46206-6245 to request to be removed from our mailing/email list. Once received by Lilly, it may take up to 30 days to process your request. You may continue to receive information in the mail while your request is being processed. Terms and Conditions for the Cymbalta Promise 60-day money-back offer: Reimbursement offered for up to 60 days of Cymbalta therapy to a maximum of $700. Prescriptions for more than two capsules per day are not eligible for reimbursement. Limit one reimbursement per person. Offer void where prohibited by law. Valid only in the United States for US residents. Offer not valid if your prescription claims for Cymbalta are reimbursed, in whole or in part, by (1) any governmental program, including, without limitation, Medicaid, Medicare, or any other federal or state program, such as Champus, the VA, TRICARE, or a state pharmaceutical assistance program, or (2) any third-party payer in the state of Massachusetts. By accepting this offer, you agree to notify your insurance carrier of reimbursement if required to do so by law or under the terms of coverage. Additional exclusions may apply and this offer may be terminated, rescinded, revoked or amended by Lilly USA, LLC at any time without notice. Cymbalta ® and the Cymbalta Logo are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company. Indications Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in four short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in three short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic osteoarthritis pain and chronic low back pain. Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Prescribing Information | Safety Information and Boxed Warning | Medication Guide | Multimedia Help | Glossary | Site Map | Patient Assistance Program Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Copyright DD61726-012012A ©Lilly USA, LLC 
 2012. All rights reserved. This site is intended for U.S. residents age 18 and over. Cymbalta is a registered trademark of Lilly USA, LLC. No Yes This Site: 