Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Acne Scar Removal Natural Acne Scar Removal Looking for Natural Acne Scar Removal Treatments? The following are  effective home remedies for scars particularly if you have mild to moderate forms of  scar. 1) Honey natural acne scar removal One of the most commonly held beliefs is that honey has strong healing capability. ComvitaActive Manuka Honey, 1.1 Pound Jars (Pack of 2)From Amazon Particularly, active Manuka Honey provides the wound with amino acids, vitamins and sugars. The vitamin C in it for example might play a major role in collagen synthesis for scar reduction. Active Manuka Honey creates a protective barrier over the new growing tissue. With the honey on the wound no scar causing scab can form.Therefore Active Manuka Honey might help healing a scar faster than conventional treatments do. Take a little Active Manuka Honey and place it on the acne scar. Apply the Active Manuka Honey twice daily. The honey helps drawing out moisture from the acne scar and helps healing it. Within 3-4 days the skin should look significantly better. Depending on the size of the wound, apply 1-2 teaspoons of Active Manuka Honey to a sterile gauze and place it as first layer on the wound. Usually it is enough if you hold this first gauze with a skin tape in order to avoid leaking. If you wish you can also place a second sterile and dry gauze on the wound before fixing the wound with rolled gauze wrap to keep the layers in place. 2) Garlic natural acne scar removal Garlic is one of the oldest home remedies for the treatment of acne. The affected area should be rubbed with raw garlic several times a day. This external use of garlic can help to cure acne scars, skin spots and boils. You can also mash a clove of garlic and apply it to your acne scars. Scars will appear less visible in a week.The external use of garlic also helps to clear the skin of spots and pimple! The process is further helped by taking the garlic orally also, to purify the blood-steam so as to secure a long term clearance of the skin. A regular course of three garlic capsules per day should help to clear minor skin infections quickly, preventing scars. 3)Apple Cider Vinegar Among the various methods to treat acne scars, apple cider vinegar is one of the most effective methods. OmegaNutrition Apple Cider Vinegar, 12-Ounces Apple cider vinegar mixed with equal parts water for a 1:1 solution and applied to scars morning and evening is quite effective.The theory of this method is that the malic acid in the vinegar gently exfoliates your skin and may help with some indented scarring - also softens the skin and helps with acne (as vinegar helps to restore PH levels). Related Articles: Resurfacing Scar Serum Glycolic Acid Peel Retin A for Scars Return from  da "Natural Acne Scar Removal" to "Home Remedies for Acne Scars" Return from  da "Natural Acne Scar Removal" to "Acne Scar Removal" Home Page SiteSearch SiteMap CausesOf Scars Questionsand Answers AcneScars Blog Forum Typesof Scars Preventa Scar BestTreatments for Scars Acne Scar Removal Kit Zenmed Waysto remove Scars LaserTreatments SkinRollers for Scars GlycolicAcid for Scars TreatmentsVideo SalineInjections BackAcne Scars HomeTreatments EssentialOils for Scars AfricanAmericans Hyperpigmentation Makeupfor Scars MineralMakeup Shop AcneSolutions FreeSkin Consultation Sitoin Italiano Links PrivacyPolicy | Homepage | Zenmed Scar Kit | Best Treatments | Con