
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 10:43:36 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.42 (Unix) PHP/5.2.17 mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Go With Natural Cures For Bacterial Vaginosis Infection Go With Natural Cures For Bacterial Vaginosis Infection Doctors are never reserved to prescribe 
         antibiotics for bacterial vaginosis patients. It works temporary to 
         prevent the bad bacteria in the vaginal from spreading but it also 
         reduce the good bacteria to perform it's duty. That is why in more than 
         70% of the cases when antibiotic were administered, recurrence of the 
         bacterial vaginosis are norm. Antibiotics do not help to fight of 
         bacterial vaginosis as effective as natural cures or natural remedies. 
         The drugs wipe off the bad and good bacteria in the vaginal leaving it 
         expose to another wave of attack from external bacteria which is 
         normally the bad ones. The only option to counter the infections 
         is by using natural cures. Natural cures for bacterial vaginosis has many benefits. Among them are: without side effects . Natural 
         herbs and remedies do not carry any side effects at all. less likely to have recurrence . 
         Natural treatment usually are in sync with the good bacteria in the 
         vaginal. When the good bacteria are preserved, the patient is more 
         likely to emerge stronger from the attack. it is simple , easy to follow and 
         healthy practice. Try these natural cures for bacterial 
         vaginosis : Enrich yourself with yogurt everyday. 
         Yogurt is good for your digestion. Drink lots of juice especially cranberry 
         juice which has powerful antioxidant qualities. Do not wear tight pants too frequently. Sleep without underwear. Moist and 
         stuffiness promotes bacteria growth. Wash and rinse with diluted sea salt 
         while you shower or bath. Do not wash or spray water into your 
         vaginal. They pose a risk of getting infected. Your vaginal is a self 
         cleansing organ with the right pH balance. Dip some tea tree oil with clean cotton 
         wool and clean the vulva. Dilute vinegar with water to wash. Put a teaspoon of sugar free yogurt or 
         probiotics into the vaginal. Let the good bacteria to do wonders. Control your diet. Sugary f