Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Properties & Benefits of Aloe Vera Forums Gallery Links/Reviews Airport Transfers Other Travel Services Contact Us TRAVEL
GUIDE Accommodation Airport Bars Beaches Bullfighting Bus
Services Carnival Car
Hire Employment Excursions F
A Q Food/Restaurants Gay
Gran Canaria Golf Las
Palmas Maps Medical Police Resorts Scuba Shopping Telephone Towns Travel
Tips Weather ---------------------- Tenerife Lanzarote Fuertventura Maspalomas
Weather Aloe Vera People
keep asking me "what's all this I hear about aloe vera" and I tended to
answer, "haven't got a clue mate." I knew it was good for putting on
sunburn and that was about it. I've since been reading up on it and
after various emails I've been sent, decided to share what little I've
learnt as you can actually buy dozens of variations of aloe vera gel
here, a lot more potent than you're likely to find anywhere else, along
with pure 100% gel. Along with cacti it actually grows as a weed here
so very easy for the locals to cultivate. It's
been known throughout history to have medicinal properties, used to
cure various ailments and nowadays, the myths surrounding it that go
back 5,000 years to the ancient Chinese, Egyptians and Greeks are no
longer myths but medical fact. Scientists have found that the Aloe Vera
gel is a mixture of antibiotic, astringent, coagulating agent, pain
inhibitor, cell growth stimulator and scar inhibitor. It contains a
total of 70 "essential ingredients" including most vitamins including
B12, minerals, enzymes, protein and amino acids. What does all that
mean you wonder - it's good for sunburn!! "Tests
conducted on ulcer patients in Florida in 1962, as reported in the
Journal A.O.A., Vol. 62, April 1963, showed that the clinical
administration of Aloe Vera gel emulsion resulted in permanent relief
for 94% of ulcer patients who had had the condition for an extended
period of time." Enough
of the technical stuff. Bearing in mind that most medicines come from
plants anyway, aloe vera is a fairly unique plant in that with little
processing, it's "gel" is a natural medicine for helping to cure almost
any skin ailment from sunburn (told you so) and other burns, rashes,
wounds, acne, stings, cold sores, insect bites, arthritis and even as
an anti-ageing cream. You can even buy it in a form which can be drunk
and is used to help against asthma, insomnia, indigestion, heartburn,
constipation, hemorrhoids and ulcers to name but a few. Something
really spooky, the plant's gel not only helps to heal scars and damaged
skin tissue but it can also heal itself! The leaves have no stalks or
woody parts and are kept upright
by the water pressure of the gel. A leaf, slashed across with a sharp
knife, first spurts out its "lifeblood" as the flesh on its leaf is
opened. A few seconds later the wound films over. The next few minutes
a rubber-like, protective coating effectively seals off loss of water.
In a short time, the wound heals completely. The plant contains a wound
healing substance that does this. Do
a search on the Internet and you'll find reference to hundreds and
hundreds of books, medical papers and research documents (well, I did). Aloe
Vera is non toxic - it is not a drug - it is not a medicine - and is
not intended to replace any drugs or medicine but documents and
experiences show that when people use a product or drink the juice for
whatever reason - it works! If
you want to try it out, go see Rafael down by the main entrance to the
main beach in Puerto Rico. If you tell him Owen sent you and everyone
does that, eventually he'll do a discount. Rates aren't discounted yet
for us, I'll tell you when but tell him I sent you. Anyway, he's there
every day from late morning until around sunset. Him and his assistant
give demonstrations by waiting until the lobster crowd come off the
beach and rubbing gel into their shoulders. The stuff does it's own
advertising as people are so amazed, they buy the stuff straight away
along with anyone watching. 500ml of the pure gel sells for
€18 - 1000ml costs €30. Moisturizing cream costs
€12, the drinking form of aloe vera is €12 for 250ml,
the drinking/medicine (stronger) form is €14 - the list goes
on but includes acne cream, hand lotion, anti-ageing cream, spray form
and massage