
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 04:52:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

NeoSpine: Low Back Sprains and Strains - Definition, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatments NeoSpine: Outpatient Spine Surgery Centers Corporate Headquarters 40 Burton Hills Blvd., Suite 500 Nashville, TN 37215 ph: 615.234.5900 fx: 615.234.7994 About Who is NeoSpine? Innovation in Spine Care A New Standard of Care Our Management Team Our Facilities For Practice Administrators Leverage NeoSpine for Your Practice For Surgeons The Right Surgical Partner Pain Management Partnership Opportunities The NeoSpine Model National Spine Conference Participation Additional Resources For Patients Revolutionary Patient Care Anatomy Exams & Tests Spine-Related Conditions Nonsurgical Treatment Surgical Treatment NeoSpine Facilities NeoSpine Video Library For Case Managers Partners Contact NeoSpine Facilities Career Opportunities Contact Us Home Spine-Related Conditions >> Explaining Spinal Disorders: Low Back Sprains and Strains Explaining Spinal Disorders: Low Back Sprains and Strains Low back pain is one of the most common medical complaints. Although  spinal stenosis, a herniated disc, or other conditions may cause low back pain,  sprain or strain is the most common diagnosis. A common cause of a sprain or strain is excessive physical  demand on the spine’s ligaments or muscles.   Although pain can be severe, and even temporarily disabling, most low  back sprains and strains are easy to treat and do not require spine surgery. How Low Back Sprains and Strains Occur The low back (lumbar spine) is the body’s primary weight-bearing  structure.  The lumbar spine’s large  vertebral bodies and inward curve (lordosis) make it uniquely designed to carry  and distribute stress during movement and at rest. Sprains and strains are soft tissue injuries.  Soft tissues include tendons, ligaments, and  muscles. Sprains are limited to tendons and ligaments, whereas strains affect muscles.  Injury can occur when these tissues are  stretched beyond their normal limits.   Such as: Excessive  flexion (bending forward) Excessive  extension (bending backward) Excessive  force to the spine (i.e. lifting or carrying a heavy object) Symptoms Symptoms include sharp pain, pain with movement, difficulty  moving, swelling, and stiffness.  Initially,  pain may be so severe you fear something has broken . Diagnosis Our  comprehensive diagnostic process includes: Medical       history .  Your doctor talks to you about your       symptoms, their severity, and what treatments you have already tried. Physical       examination .  You are carefully examined for movement       limitations (range of motion), balance problems, and pain.  During the exam, the doctor evaluates       loss of extremity reflexes, muscle weakness, loss of sensation, or other       signs of a neurological problem. Diagnostic       tests .  If needed, a plain x-ray is obtained to rule       out other problems, such as a spinal fracture. Nonoperative Treatment Rarely is spine surgery necessary to treat a sprain or  strain.  A short-term course of  medication to relieve pain and muscle spasm with physical therapy is  standard.  Medication may include an  anti-inflammatory, muscle relaxant, and pain killer (non-narcotic, or narcotic).  A narcotic may be prescribed if pain is  acute, or a non-narcotic does not relieve pain. Your physical therapy program may include inactive treatment  such as ultrasound, massage, heat or ice packs, or electrical stimulation.  These therapies help to reduce inflammation,  muscle spasm, and pain while increasing circulation and healing time.  Therapeutic exercise combines stretching and  strengthening movements along with a home exercise program. Other treatment options include chiropractic and  acupuncture. Prevention Steps During physical therapy, you learn basic body mechanics,  posture pointers, and ergonomic tips to use at rest and during movement to  prevent sprain and strain. Eating a well-balanced diet of nutritious foods will help  you maintain, or work toward, a healthy body weight.  If you are overweight, consider weight loss  to reduce the load your low back must handle. Reminder Keep in mind that not  every episode of back pain is a sprain or strain.  If back pain is acute, persistent, or  worsens, talk to your doctor. Contact Us Send us an email or call for a consultation. About NeoSpine For Admins For Surgeons For P