Set-Cookie: pers_cookie_insert_healthology_newweb_80=1707332160.20480.0000; expires=Mon, 12-Mar-2012 22:43:24 GMT; path=/

Weight Loss Surgery - Ask Your Doctor Discussion Guide: Introduction to Bariatric Surgery As a Weight Loss Option Find a Nutritionist , Dietician & more Find a therapist near you City or Zip Code: Powered by: Psychology Today Advertisement Diet and Weight Loss Weight Loss Surgery Ask Your Doctor Discussion Guide: Introduction to Bariatric Surgery As a Weight Loss Option Medically Reviewed On: December 22, 2010 Ask Your Doctor Discussion Guide Best for: primary care physician appointment or weight loss surgery seminar What is weight loss or “bariatric” surgery, and why do I need surgery to lose weight? “Bariatrics” is a branch of medicine that relates to obesity and its associated diseases. Bariatric surgery, or weight loss surgery, is a common term used to describe a variety of operations for treating severe obesity. These operations are performed to make physical changes to the stomach and/or the small intestine in order to help you decrease the amount of food you eat. It is a proven method for long-term weight reduction and portion control among people who are exceedingly obese. It facilitates significant and sustained weight loss. It was shown to result in complete remission of diabetes in up to 86% severely obese patients with diabetes. It was shown to reduce the risk of death by nearly 30% in patients with severe obesity (BMI >40). It is not a simple, “quick fix” solution to a serious long-term weight problem. It requires commitment and lifestyle changes for successful weight loss and improved health. It is not a form of cosmetic surgery. What are the benefits of weight loss surgery? Most people who undergo bariatric surgery lose a significant amount of weight. After they lose the weight, they are also more likely to keep it off, provided they continue to observe the amount of food they eat. Serious health concerns related to obesity often improve or disappear following surgery and weight loss. Some of these health concerns include: Heart disease Type 2 diabetes Arthritis Some forms of cancer Hypertension Stroke Sleep apnea Asthma Obesity is also associated with pregnancy complications and menstrual problems, and it often leads to psychological and behavioral conditions such as depression. Quality of life also improves for many people after weight loss surgery, as they experience improvement in their physical, behavioral and social well-being. What types of weight loss surgeries are currently available? There are several types of bariatric surgery, which fall into two categories: Restrictive procedures: These surgeries significantly reduce the size of the stomach, making you feel satisfied after eating less food, and you stay full longer. Restrictive/malabsorptive procedures: These surgeries reduce the size of the stomach and shorten the small intestine, which are permanent changes to your anatomy. The smaller stomach also makes you feel satisfied and full after eating less food. In addition, the changes to the intestine reduce the amount of calories the body can absorb. Page 1 of 4 Next Page >> RELATED PROGRAMS Video - Patient Perspective on Weight Loss Surgery Transcript Video - Preparing for Weight Loss Surgery Transcript Article - Ask Your Doctor Discussion Guide: Preparing for Your Weight Loss Procedure Article - Ask Your Doctor Discussion Guide: Questions for Your Weight Loss Surgeon Advertisement HealthVideo.com © 2008 NBC Digital Health Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy - Disclaimer - Editorial Poli