Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 03 Aug 2011 11:37:21 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "50338b5d151cc1:343"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 12:01:20 GMT
Connection: close

FAQs about Inversion Therapy FAQ's about Inversion  Therapy Disclaimer: Check with your physician before inverting, as you would when beginning any exercise program. 1.  How long should I invert? This is probably  the most commonly asked question about inversion. The answer really  varies with different people. For the most part, we recommend beginners  to start slowly: invert for only 1-2 minutes during the first week or  two until you become comfortable, and then work up to longer periods of  time as you feel necessary. The angle of inversion also affects the  length of inversion time that is comfortable. The shallower the angle,  the longer the time. Most people will invert for 5 - 15 minutes once or  twice a day. There is no real time limit-the important thing is to  listen to your body. If you are at all uncomfortable, simply return  upright. Virtually  all issues of discomfort that occur with new invertees is due to going  too far, too fast. You are wonderfully designed to be upside down, but  if you are like most people, you are detrained to be inverted. Just  listen to your body, increasing the duration of inversion only as you  feel comfortable. 2.  To what degree should I invert? Again, the answer varies with different people. Beginners should start  at a mild angle (approximately 20-30 degrees beyond horizontal) for the  first few weeks until you become comfortable with the operation of the  table and are able to completely relax while inverted. 20 - 30 degrees: At this angle, your body begins to experience mild  stretching to your muscles and joints, while benefiting from stimulated  circulation, improved oxygen flow to the head, and repositioning of  internal organs. 60 degrees (parallel with the rear legs of the table): This is the  angle to which the average person experiences virtually all the  benefits of inversion. Your spine receives the amount of traction it  needs to completely decompress (once you are relaxed). Most people  don't really need to go beyond this angle. 90 degrees (full inversion): In full inversion, your body hangs freely  to be able to perform inverted exercises and stretching. You never  really need to go to full inversion if you are not comfortable with it.  Of course, those using the Inversion Swing or BodyLift will only be able to fully invert. You may need to alternate between  inverting and resting with your hands on the foam grips until you are  used to the feeling of prolonged inversion. You may also want to hang  for short periods of time to begin with until you become more  comfortable. Top athletes are one group that may enjoy the extra traction from full  inversion. Strong muscles and ligaments need higher loads to  decompress. Intermittent traction / Oscillation Intermittent traction (alternating  20-30 seconds inversion with returning upright) or oscillation  (rhythmic rocking back and forth) are actually the "preferred" methods  of inversion, recommended by many doctors, for stimulating circulation  and waste removal in and around injured discs. Virtually all issues of discomfort that occur with new invertees is due  to going too far, too fast. You are wonderfully designed to be upside  down, but if you are like most people, you are detrained to be  inverted. Just listen to your body, increasing the your angle of  inversion only as you feel comfortable. 3.  Does inversion cause strokes / popped blood vessels? A medical  study published in 1983 by Dr. Goldman and colleagues showed that  inverted patients experienced an increase in blood pressure and  internal eye pressure. The media widely reported the study, warning  that stroke was a potential result of inversion. Two years following the inversion study, Dr. Goldman reversed his  original position, stating, "New research shows that you are at no more  of a stroke risk hanging upside down than if you are exercising right  side up." More in-depth research found that the body actually has  mechanisms that prevent damage from hanging upside down. In fact, while  oscillating (inverting with movement), some of the patients' blood  pressure actually dropped a few points. (*Note: these studies were  based on patients in generally good health. Make sure you review  contraindications prior to inverting.) Dr. Goldman stated that the warnings to the public about the dangers of  inversion were "grossly inflated" and that "in the 15 years these  devices have been in use, there has not been one single stroke case  reported, nor any serious injuries." (This statement, to the best of  our knowledge, is as true today as when Dr. Goldman made it 17 years  ago). Other  universities, including Marquette, Iowa, and Portland studied inversion  during this time, with results that also helped to vindicate Inversion  as a healthy physical activity. 4.  Why do I feel so much pressure in my head-is it normal to turn red? This is very  normal and is actually good for you, indicating increased blood flow to  the brain, eyes, skin and hair. One preliminary study showed that the  brain runs 7% faster and 14% more accurate while inverted! The feeling  of pressure usually lessens over time as you become accustomed to  inverting. If you are a beginner and are uncomfortable with this feeling, it is OK  to come up and rest a while. This is referred to as "intermittent"  traction (alternating inversion with being upright) and is a good way  to help get used to the inverted world. You can also try "oscillation"  which is a rhythmic rocking back and forth. 5.  How do I focus on the lower back / upper back / neck region? Inversion is  a natural form of gravity-assisted traction. This means that the amount  of traction applied to various locations of the body is exactly the  right amount! Every vertebra and related disc is just the right size to  support the weight above it. The large discs in the lower back are the  right size to support the 60% body weight that is above them. The small  discs in the neck are just the right size to support the weight of the  head. When inverted, the weight normally supported is just the right  weight to apply traction. Gentle stretching and exercise is beneficial to help decompress and mobilize the spine: Lower back You  may perform gentle stretching exercises to help move the muscles and  connective tissues in the lower back area. In partial inversion, try  rotating gently from side-to-side, or slowly rocking your pelvis  forward and backward. If you have worked up to full inversion, abdominal exercises (sit-ups,  crunches) can be beneficial to the lower back, since strong abdominal  muscles are key for proper posture. On the inversion tables, you can  try a gentle back extension by placing your hands behind your head on  the bed frame and pushing your body in an arch away from the table. Upper back Many people experience upper back pain as a result of stress and muscle  tension. The key to relieving this pain is to totally relax while  inverting. Try deep breathing exercises. Also, partner work can be  beneficial-nothing is more relaxing than an inverted back and shoulder  massage! Movement is also very beneficial. Try rounding your shoulders forward  and pushing them back. Also, stretch one arm at a time across your  torso to extend those upper back muscles. Neck Again,  movement can be beneficial. Try rotating your head from one side to the  other. Partner massages to the base of the head and back of the neck  are very relaxing (do not apply pressure to the front of the neck). You  can also add gentle inverted traction to your neck by resting your arms  behind your head at the base of your skull (don't pull, just add the  weight of your arms). 6.	What exercises do you recommend while inverted? Partial inversion. Gentle stretching can be performed while partially  inverted by crossing one arm over your body, gripping the opposite side  of the table frame, and rotating up on one shoulder for a stretch. You  can also arch the torso from side to side to loosen muscles and to help  the mid- and lower spine to stretch. Similarly,  stress in the neck can be relieved by gently rotating the head to  either side, plus lifting the head (do not sit up, only lift the head)  or pushing back against the nylon cover while lifting the shoulders off  the cover for a stretch in extension. Full  inversion. Only perform these exercises when you are comfortable with  being fully inverted. Do not overdue it-as with any exercise to which  your body is unaccustomed, you may experience sore muscles if you do  too much too fast. Inverted crunches.  Place your hands on your chest or behind your head and lift your torso half way to your knees. Full  sit-ups. This is the only way to perform a full sit-up that is safe for  your back. Your spine is in line with gravity, so the full sit-up does  not place harmful loads on the back. Place your hands behind your head  or on your chest. Sit up all the way to your knees. You may need to  place your hands behind your knees to help pull yourself up to a full  sit up. Some people claim that 1 full inverted sit-up is as difficult  as 10 regular sit-ups (without the strain on your back!) Inverted  squats. On the tables and racks, you are able to exercise your legs as  well! You may want to steady yourself by placing each hand on the rear  legs of the A-frame. Bending your knees, lift your entire body toward  the sky. This action is similar to a standing squat, except that you  are utilizing your leg muscles to pull your body weight up instead of  resisting your body weight. Rotational  stretching. You can use the A-frame, support structure or door frames  to aid with stretching. Reach with one arm to the opposite side of the  structure and pull, rotating your torso to one side. Do the same with  the opposite arm. Back  extensions. For the inversion table, reach your hands over each  shoulder and grab onto the bed frame. Push your body out away from the  bed, arching your back out. (Do not use the rear legs of the A-frame  for extensions, as that may place your body weight outside the safe  support area of the A-frame). Added  traction. On the inversion table, reach your hands forward and grab  onto the crossbar of the A-frame. Pull gently to feel added traction to  your lower back. THE MOST  IMPORTANT THING TO REMEMBER IS NOT TO OVERDO IT. INVERSION IS NOT A "NO  PAIN, NO GAIN" SITUATION. AS SOON AS YOU FEEL LIKE YOU HAVE HAD ENOUGH,  STOP! 7.	I'm feeling some aching in my back when I return upright from inverting.  Is this normal? There could be several causes for this. You did too much too soon: If you are new to inversion, your body is  not used to being inverted (chances are you haven't hung upside down  since 2nd grade!) By inverting too much too soon, you are probably  going to be a little sore. You can liken inversion to beginning any new  exercise program. If you over-do it on the first day, you will probably  pay for it later! You returned upright too fast: When inverted, your vertebrae have a  chance to separate and the discs can decompress. This action reduces  pressure on the nerves that run through your spinal column. When you  ascend (return upright) on the inversion table, your spine  "re-compresses"-the vertebrae return to their normal position and the  pressure on the discs increases again. If you come up from inversion  too fast, you might place sudden pressure on the nerves that run  through the spine, which can cause some pain. Instead, you should  invert to a mild angle (30-40 degrees) for a just few minutes. Come  back up only to the horizontal position (lying flat). Remain horizontal  for several minutes to allow your spine to slowly re-compress. Then  slowly come up the rest of the way. Always keep in mind that if you experience extreme pain, or if you  always experience pain while inverting, you should discontinue  inversion until you have had a chance to talk with your doctor. 8.  Is the inverting detrimental if you should have heart disease or high blood pressure? It  is true that people should not invert if they have uncontrolled high  blood pressure. However, inversion can cause a state of relaxation that  results in a drop in heart rate and BP (sometimes even lower than at a  resting state). Some doctors have used inversion as a treatment for  high BP. If you have concerns, you should check with your doctor before  inverting. 9.  Will inversion therapy help with a bulged disc? When  inverted, the natural pull of gravity allows a separation of your  vertebrae, which lessens the pressure on the discs in between each  vertebrae. The action of increasing the space margins between the  vertebrae can actually create a mild suction in the disc, which may  help encourage the bulged disc return to its proper place. The main  benefits are realized by increased circulation and waste elimination to  injured discs. In the opinion of many medical professionals, several  sessions of intermittent traction are the best way to help the body  dissolve a bulged disc. The length of healing time will vary with different people. However, it  has been our experience that you should hang three or more times every  day for short sessions at an angle most comfortable for you. Do not  over-do it-this is not a "no pain, no gain situation." 10.  Will inversion help with headaches or migraines? Some people  have found that inverting on a regular basis can actually help reduce  the frequency of migraine occurrences. However, we do not have any  medical studies to specifically back this claim. I would advise not to  invert if you are in the middle of experiencing a migraine, as it could  potentially worsen your headache. 11.  Will inversion therapy help with draining blood from the lower limbs? When  inverted, you are helping your heart move venous blood from your legs  and torso to the heart and lungs to be purified. Inversion also helps  to move fresh, oxygen rich blood from your heart and lungs to your  upper body and brain. When a muscle  contracts, this squeezes capillaries and slows removal of wastes from  the muscle. Sustained muscle contraction due to stress or cramping  causes wastes to accumulate in the tissue and this produces pain. What  inversion does for muscles is two-fold: first, it stretches and relaxes  them; second, gravity helps the lymph system to clear out the  pain-producing toxins trapped in the tensed muscles. By  stimulating circulation, inversion has been known to relieve varicose  veins. Varicose veins are caused when blood pools in the veins due to  weakened one-way valves. The downward pull of gravity causes blood to  slip back, and over time the vein will distend and become painful. When  inverting, the pressure is relieved and the heart is able to clear the  blood from the lower body. 12.  If someone has a fused vertebrae, is it safe for them to invert? There are  many types of fusion surgeries. Some post fusion patients are helped by  inversion. Any fusion patient should consult with a licensed physician  before inverting. 13.  Can inversion help children with scoliosis?  Does age matter? Our medical  advisor prefers to get patients involved with inversion as early as  possible. Using inversion to help slow or reverse the effects of  scoliosis is helpful at any age, but especially before the bones fully  harden at ages 12-14. The size of the equipment may be an issue, so  younger children will need an attendant. There are  many causes of scoliosis. Some causes may be problematic for inversion  (bone infection, cancer, compression fracture). Most scoliosis in  children is related to bone anomalies or calcification disorders, both  of which do well with inversion. Of course, if you have any doubt, you  should always consult with a licensed physician. Contraindications Inversion therapy  can provide innumerable benefits to your health. Inversion can relieve  back pain, decompress the spine, stretch muscles and ligaments, relieve  stress, improve circulation and help maintain overall good health. However, inversion is not for everyone. If you have any of the  following health conditions, please do not invert without your licensed  physician's approval (this is not an exhaustive list - it is intended  only for your reference.) Anti-Coagulants (Use of): Blood-thinning drugs or aspirin to reduce clotting of the arteries and  blood vessels. The use of anti-coagulants signals people at risk for  circulatory problems. Advise speaking with a physician before  inverting. Bone weakness, recent fractures, skeletal implants: Having a person's weight pulling down when inverted may exacerbate  these conditions. Osteoporosis is a calcium deficiency disease in which  the bones become porous, brittle, and very weak. Advise speaking with a  physician before inverting. Conjunctivitis - (Pink eye): An inflammation of the transparent membrane that covers the front  surface of the eyeball and the inner surface of the eyelids caused by  bacterial or viral infection. Advise speaking with a physician before  inverting. Glaucoma: A condition of elevated pressure within the eye because of an  obstruction of the outflow of the clear, watery fluid circulating in  the chambers of the eye. The resulting pressure (which is imperceptible  without an eye exam) kills cells in the optic nerve, which can lead to  a gradual loss of vision. Anyone with an eye condition should speak  with a physician before inverting. Heart / circulatory disorders: Any condition involving the circulatory system.  Speak with a physician before inverting. Hiatal hernia, ventral hernia: A hiatal hernia occurs when intra-abdominal pressure increases cause a  portion of the stomach to move into the chest cavity through a weakness  in the diaphragm. A ventral hernia develops at the site of previous  surgery, usually along vertical incisions. It may also result from  weakness in the abdominal wall. Advise speaking with a physician before  inverting. High blood pressure, hypertension: A common disorder in which the heart is pumping blood through the  circulatory system with a force greater than that required for normal  blood flow. An elevated blood pressure which exceeds 140/90. It is true  that certain people should not invert if they have uncontrolled high  blood pressure. However, inversion can cause a state of relaxation that  results in a drop in heart rate and BP (sometimes even lower than at a  resting state). Some doctors have used inversion as a treatment for  high BP. Advise speaking with a physician before inverting. Middle ear infection: The middle ear helps equalize air pressure in the ear. A person may  feel discomfort or disorientation during inversion. Advise speaking  with a physician before inverting. Obesity (extreme): In some people obesity can be associated with the undetected onset of  many of the circulatory and eye problems mentioned above. The weight  capacity of each of the inversion products should not be exceeded. Pregnancy: Pregnant women should exercise caution when inverting.  Advisable to talk with physician first. Retinal detachment: A separation of the retina, the thin, delicate membrane covering the  rear portion of the eye, from the optic nerve. Usually results from a  hole in the retina that allows the vitreous humor fluid to leak.  Treatment is almost always surgical. A retinal hemorrhage, in most  cases, can heal by itself. Anyone with an eye condition should speak  with a physician before inverting. Spinal injury: Any severe spinal cord trauma requires a person to consult their physician before inverting. Stroke: Occurs when a blood vessel in the neck or brain becomes blocked or when  a vessel in the brain bursts open. Symptoms include paralysis,  difficulty speaking, memory loss, and impaired thought processes. Transient ischemic attack: Often called a "ministroke," a TIA occurs when the blood supply is  temporarily interrupted to a part of the brain due to a blockage. Often  precedes the onset of a full stroke, and requires immediate action. The above information is provided courtery of Teeter Hang Ups Inversion Therapy AIRBodySlant BodyLift BodySlant: Newton/ Einstein Inversion Swing Inversion Swing Instructions OmGym DEX II  Inversion for decompression and extension EP-550 Inversion Table EP-550 Sports Inversion Table EP 950 Inversion Table F9000 Inversion Table Power II  Inversion Table Inversion Table Comparison Inversion Benefits Summary Benefits of   Inversion pg. 1 Benefits of   Inversion pg. 2 Benefits of   Inversion pg. 3 Benefits of   Inversion pg. 4 Back Pain and  Inversion Therapy Combining Inversion w/