
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 12:53:51 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Set-Cookie: ufd=deleted; expires=Sun, 06-Mar-2011 12:53:50 GMT
Set-Cookie: ufd=eJxdzrEOwiAQBuCnkU0jLUUdbmi6O6gvQPHaohSag2p8e%2BlQQxz%2By5f8N%2FyT6vFl8H2eR%2BDFSbBIquuMvvqZNMLACDskpJqi0RYbFbH39AEu%2FpqbagPww6ZoqhSZUojlHFgMzaCcQwuSjRjJ6FDuM0soVmcUJYifReYqs4Tjai5hy5lxJhplL8u0tA0ec0jrcLLKtd4%2Fd9qPzPn6nh6AfwGkilZj; path=/; domain=.wisegeek.com
Set-Cookie: ufd=deleted; expires=Sun, 06-Mar-2011 12:53:50 GMT
Set-Cookie: ufd=eJxdzkEOwiAQBdDTyE5TKGJdzKLp3oV6AYrTilJoBqrx9tJFTePm5yXzM%2Fmj7vFl8X2aBuDiKFki3XXWXMJEBuHOCDskpJqSNQ4bnbAP9AEh%2Fy5X3UZQG9GIwxzVHEUOnl%2FG5q69RweKDZjImlgWKysQi1eUJcif5cr7lRVUi7mCLWfW22S1O8%2Fb8jh4TDHPw9Fp34bw3JkwMB%2FqWy4A%2FwLiSFaS; path=/; domain=.wisegeek.com
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close

How Can I Relieve a Charley Horse? How Can I Relieve a Charley Horse? A charley horse is a contraction of muscle, most often in the leg, and sometimes in the middle of the night that can have you gasping in pain.  Virtually anyone can get a charley horse, and of course the thing most people want to know is how to relieve a charley horse quickly because the pain can be so intense.  Though many of these cramps are of short duration, subsiding after a few minutes, some can persist for several days. Athletes may be especially prone to these cramps, and they may also affect anyone in hot weather, and pregnant women.  There are a few ways to deal with them immediately.   First, though pain is intense, try to relax.  Reaction to severe pain usually means we tense up, which makes the muscle contract all the more.   Take deep breaths and resist the urge to tense up all the muscles. Second you can relieve a charley horse by trying to lightly flex or relax the muscles involved.  Try for slight manipulations of the muscle to shift it from its frozen cramp state.  If you can get to a fridge, grab some ice and apply it to the muscle affected.  If the cramp continues, you may be able to relieve a charley horse by soaking in a warm bath for 20 minutes. You can also try light massage ; just don’t put too much pressure on the cramped muscle.  This may help promote relaxation sooner.  If you’re pregnant and you get a sudden charley horse be sure your toes are not pointed.  Pointing the toes, especially in the later stages of pregnancy often results in wretched muscle cramping in the calves.  Carefully and gently allow the feet and toes to relax to relieve pain. Oftentimes these cramps arise out of a lack of balance in electrolytes.  During hot weather, people may be more prone to them if they are not taking in adequate fluids.  Another common cause is low levels of magnesium and calcium .  If you suffer from charley horses frequently, you may be able to relieve a charley horse or even prevent them by taking a magnesium and calcium supplement right before going to bed.  If you get one in the middle of the night, try taking a magnesium/calcium supplement at that time.  Drinking a glass of milk before bed can also help. Potassium imbalance may also cause these strong cramps.  If you combine your glass of milk at night with a banana, you’ll go a long way toward preventing these cramps.  If you run or compete in any sports, you also may be more vulnerable.  Some athletes keep potassium and magnesium supplements on hand to relieve a charley horse that occurs during activity, and it’s extremely important for all athletes to stay well hydrated especially during athletic competitions. If you get charley horses on a frequent basis, this may indicate the presence of essential deficiencies of minerals or more serious health issues.  You may want to see your doctor for more ideas on treatment, or to look for potential causes.  Occasionally, when no specific health cause is found, doctors may prescribe muscle relaxants or tranquilizers to relieve a charley horse that does not respond to the methods for relief suggested above. Written by
  Tricia Ellis-Christensen Related posts What Are the Different Types of Charley Horse Treatment? What Is the Best Treatment for Leg Pain and Cramps? What Are Leg Spasms? What Is Magnesium Deficiency? What Causes Foot Cramps? What is a Charley Horse? What are Leg Cramps? What Exactly are Muscle Knots? Home Ter