
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 00:05:18 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 23:05:18 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

First Aid – Natural First Aid About.com Health Alternative Medicine Alternative Medicine Search Alternative Medicine Supplements Treatments By Condition Share Free Alternative Medicine Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum First Aid – Natural First Aid By Cathy Wong , About.com Guide Updated May 04, 2009 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by our Medical Review Board See More About: aloe vera tea tree oil calluses corns To handle minor, everyday emergencies, keep a home first-aid kit stocked with essential items (such as bandages, gauze, and tweezers) and natural remedies that can help treat a host of common injuries. Here, three plant-based medicines to consider including in your kit: 1) Aloe Vera Anti-inflammatory aloe vera can prompt healing of first- to second-degree burns, according to a research review published in 2007. To soothe pain and stave off blisters and scarring, apply aloe vera gel directly to the burn once or twice daily until it's fully healed. Remember that all third-degree burns (which affect every layer of the skin) demand immediate medical treatment. Second-degree burns (which involve the first and second skin layers) can call for medical attention if the burned area is larger than three inches (or if the burn is on the hands, feet, face, groin, or buttocks, or over a major joint). Affecting only the outer layer of skin, first-degree burns typically require no medical treatment. Of course, if you're in doubt about the severity of your burn, contact a medical provider immediately. 2) Calendula Another anti-inflammatory agent, calendula's antibacterial effects can help keep cuts and scrapes from becoming infected. When applied directly to the affected area, calendula (a flower commonly known as "pot marigold') can also speed up wound recovery. Shown to promote burn-healing in a 2008 study, calendula may relieve skin conditions such as corns and calluses as well. 3) Tea Tree Oil An incredibly potent essential oil , tea tree oil possesses bacteria-killing and inflammation-fighting properties, according to a 2006 research review. Also known to offer antiseptic and antifungal effects, tea tree oil can help treat wounds, blisters, and insect bites when diluted and applied topically. Sources Carson CF, Hammer KA, Riley TV. "Melaleuca alternifolia (Tea Tree) oil: a review of antimicrobial and other medicinal properties." Clinical Microbiology Reviews 2006 19(1):50-62. Chandran PK, Kuttan R. "Effect of Calendula officinalis Flower Extract on Acute Phase Proteins, Antioxidant Defense Mechanism and Granuloma Formation During Thermal Burns." Journal of Clinical Biochemistry and Nutrition 2008 43(2):58-64. Maenthaisong R, Chaiyakunapruk N, Niruntraporn S, Kongkaew C. "The efficacy of aloe vera used for burn wound healing: a systematic review." Burns 2007 33(6):713-8. More Links Natural Remedies for Skin Conditions Natural Remedies for Sunburn Relief Travel Remedies Related Articles Electrical Burn - What To Do In The Event Of Electrical Burns - Electrical ... Home Remedies for Burns - Home Remedies for Sunburns and Minor Burns Aloe Vera – Health Benefits of Aloe Vera First Aid - Guide Review 16 Bridges To Burn Review - Review of Bridges To Burn by 16 Cathy Wong Alternative Medicine Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches tea tree oil aloe vera gel corns and calluses antibacterial effects first degree burns first aid kit Explore Alternative Medicine Must Reads Are My Supplements Safe? Popular Herbs Massage: Worth the Money? Before You Detox Sleep Better - Naturally Most Popular Detox Quiz Stool - What's Healthy? The Detox Diet Green Stool High Blood Pressure Remedies See More About: aloe vera tea tree oil calluses corns By Category Acupuncture to Yoga The Basics Conditions & Remedies Herbs & Supplements Diets Healthy Recipes Massage Therapy Mind & Body Find a Practitioner Natural Health Schools Alternative Medicine About.com Health Alternative Medicine Conditions & Remedies First Aid &#8211; Natural First Aid> Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod