< Back 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Next > Treatment GENERAL. RA is a lifelong disease process that has no known cure; the diagnosis is made based on clinical criteria and many different options exist for treatment. All of these factors magnify the importance of the patient-physician interaction and place a premium on the art rather than the science of medicine. The optimal care for patients with RA requires an effective interaction between primary care physicians and rheumatologists, and in some cases physical therapists (PT), occupational therapists (OT), and orthopedic surgeons. Because of the serious nature of the disease, the rapid introduction of new treatments, and the need for expertise in monitoring these therapies, all patients with RA should be followed by a rheumatologist. The goal of therapy for RA is to put the disease in remission and to maintain this remission by continuing therapy ( Table 278-5 ). Using currently available therapies, if RA is treated early, this is possible in 20 to 35% of patients. Unfortunately, remissions require the ongoing use of medications and even then are not always durable. Some combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), steroids, and DMARDs is necessary in almost all patients. In many, perhaps most, combinations of different DMARDs or DMARDs plus biologicals are necessary for optimal control. It is of critical importance that therapy be escalated rapidly to ensure maximal suppression of disease with minimal toxicity and expense. Additionally, all patients with RA should be educated about their disease and the therapies that will be used. In most cases, patients should have an opportunity to spend time with PT and OT to learn about range-of-motion exercises, joint protection, and assistive devices. When treating RA, four types of medical therapies are used: NSAIDs, glucocorticoids, DMARDs, and biological DMARDs. NSAIDs. NSAIDs are important for the symptomatic relief provided to RA patients; however, the play only a minor role, if any, in altering the underlying disease process. Therefore, NSAIDs should rarely, if ever, be used to treat RA without the concomitant use of DMARDs. Many clinicians waste valuable time switching from one NSAID to another before starting DMARD therapy. Much has been written about the gastrointestinal toxicity of NSAIDs, and many of these concerns are particularly relevant to RA patients who have a significant number of risk factors that are associated with toxicities. Therefore, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective agents have been particularly popular in this group of patients. Several caveats should be kept in mind: RA patients have a significantly increased risk for cardiovascular problems, and since COX-2 drugs provide little antiplatelet activity, many of these patients will need to take low-dose aspirin therapy in addition to their COX-2 selective drug, and the effect this has on gastrointestinal toxicity is unclear. Additionally, the COX-2 drugs appear to differ little from the nonselective COX agents in terms of their effects on the kidney and on blood pressure. Both of these issues are of particular concern for RA patients because of their significantly increased risk of cardiovascular disease. GLUCOCORTICOIDS. Glucocorticoids have had a significant role in the treatment of RA for over half a century. Indeed, RA was chosen as the first disease to test this new therapy in 1948, partly because it was thought that RA was a disease of glucocorticoid deficiency (an issue that remains unresolved). As was the case with the first patient treated in 1948, glucocorticoid therapy can be dramatically and rapidly effective in patients with RA. Glucocorticoids are not only useful for symptomatic improvement but significantly decrease the radiographic progression of RA. 1 Unfortunately, the toxicities of long-term steroid therapy are legend. Therefore, the optimal use of these drugs requires an understanding of the principles of steroid use in RA ( Table 278-6 ). Glucocorticoids remain among the most potent, anti-inflammatory treatments available: because of this and their rapid onset of action, they are ideally suited to help control the inflammation in RA while the much slower-acting DMARDs are starting to work. Prednisone, the most commonly used glucocorticoid, should rarely be used in doses higher than 10 mg/day to treat the articular manifestations of RA. This dose should be slowly tapered to the lowest effective dose, and the concomitant DMARD therapy should be adjusted to make this possible. Glucocorticoids should rarely, if ever, be used to treat RA without concomitant DMARD therapy. The paradigm is to shut off inflammation rapidly with glucocorticoids and then to taper them as the DMARD is kicking in ("bridge therapy"). In all patients on glucocorticoids, strong consideration should be given to the prevention of osteoporosis, and bisphosphonates have been shown to be particularly effective in this regard. Higher doses of glucocorticoids may be necessary for extra-articular manifestations, especially for vasculitis and scleritis. DMARDs. DMARDs are a group of medications that have the ability to modify or change the disabling potential of RA. In most cases, drugs included in this class have met the "gold standard," which is the ability to halt or slow the radiographic progression of RA. Included in this group of medications are methotrexate, sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), gold, antimalarials, leflunomide (Arava), azathioprine, penicillamine, and minocycline. It is critically important that clinicians and patients alike understand that these medications take 2 to 6 months to exert their maximal effect. Therefore, other measures such as glucocorticoid therapy may be needed to control the disease while these medications are starting to work. All of these DMARDs have been shown to be effective in treating both early and more advanced RA. The choice of which to start first depends on patient and physician concerns about toxicity and monitoring issues, as well as the activity of disease and comorbid conditions. Until additional research elucidates factors that allow us to select the best initial therapy for each patient, there are many reasonable choices for initial therapy. The critical factor is not which DMARD to start first but the fact that DMARD therapy is started early in the disease process. Methotrexate is the preferred DMARD of most rheumatologists, in part because patients have a more durable response and when monitored correctly, serious toxicities are rare. Methotrexate is dramatically effective in slowing the radiographic progression of RA and is usually given orally in doses ranging from 5 to 25 mg/week, given as a single dose. This once-a-week administration is worthy of emphasis; prior experience with daily therapy in psoriasis has taught us the importance of allowing the liver time to recover between doses. Oral absorption of methotrexate is variable; therefore, subcutaneous injections of methotrexate may be effective when oral treatment is not. Side effects of methotrexate include oral ulcers, nausea, hepatotoxicity, bone marrow suppression, and pneumonitis. With the exception of pneumonitis, these toxicities respond to dose adjustments. Monitoring of blood counts and liver blood tests (albumin and aspartate aminotransaminase or alanine aminotransferase) should be done every 4 to 8 weeks with dosage adjustments as needed. Renal function is critical for clearance of methotrexate; previously stable patients may experience severe toxicities when renal function deteriorates. Pneumonitis, although rare, is less predictable and may be fatal, particularly if the methotrexate is not stopped or is restarted. Folic acid in the dose of 1 to 4 mg/day can significantly decrease most methotrexate toxicities without apparent loss of efficacy against RA. Methotrexate in combination with sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine has been shown to be more effective than methotrexate alone. 2 Leflunomide, a pyrimidine antagonist, is the newest DMARD approved for use in RA. It has very long half-life and therefore a loading dose of 100 mg/day for three days may be given before daily therapy of 10 to 20 mg/day is started. The most common toxicity is diarrhea, which may respond to dose reduction. Also, because of its long half-life and its teratogenic potential, women wishing to become pregnant who have previously received leflunomide, even if therapy was stopped years ago, should have blood levels drawn. If toxicity occurs or if pregnancy is being considered, leflunomide can be rapidly eliminated from the body with cholestyramine. Antimalarials, hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) or chloroquine, are frequently used for the treatment of RA. They have the least toxicity of any of the DMARDs and do not require monitoring of blood tests. Yearly or twice-yearly monitoring by an ophthalmologist is recommended to detect any signs of retinal toxicity (rare). Hydroxychloroquine is the most commonly used preparation and is given orally 200 to 400 mg/day. These drugs are frequently used in combination with other DMARDs, particularly methotrexate. Sulfasalazine is the most commonly used DMARD in Europe. It is an effective treatment when given in doses of 1 to 3 g/day. Monitoring of blood counts, particularly white blood cell counts, in the first 6 months is recommended. Minocycline, 100 mg twice daily, has been shown to be an effective treatment for RA, particularly when used in early, seropositive disease. Chronic therapy (>2 years) with minocycline may lead to cutaneous hyperpigmentation. Gold, the oldest DMARD, when given intramuscularly, remains an extremely effective therapy for a small percentage of patients. It is less commonly used because of its slow onset of action, need for intramuscular administration, frequent monitoring required (complete blood count and urinalysis) and frequent toxicities. Toxicities include skin rashes, bone marrow suppression, and proteinuria. BIOLOGICAL DMARDs. Recent research has continued to elucidate the central role that cytokines, most notably TNF-α and IL-1, play in the pathophysiology of RA. This has led directly to the development and clinical use of biological agents directed against TNF-α (etanercept [Enbrel] and infliximab [Remicade]) and IL-1 (anakinra [Kineret]). Etanercept is a recombinant TNF receptor fusion protein and is administered by subcutaneous injection 25 mg twice weekly. Infliximab is a mouse/human chimeric monoclonal antibody against TNF-α that is given intravenously (3 to 10 mg/kg) every 4 to 8 weeks. Both have been shown to be highly effective against both clinical symptoms and radiographic progression of RA. 3, 4 A rapid onset of action (days to weeks) is apparent with both of these agents and is a significant advantage that these treatments have over conventional DMARDs. Current disadvantages include cost and concern about long-term toxicities, in particular, infections (especially tuberculosis) and demyelinating syndromes. Adalimumab, a newer anti-TNF agent, improves disease in patients who already are taking methotrexate. 5 Anakinra, a recombinant human IL-1 receptor antagonist, is given subcutaneously 100 mg/day. It has been shown to be effective against signs and symptoms of RA as well as radiographic progression. Its onset of action is somewhat slower and less dramatic than the TNF inhibitors. Toxicities include injection site reactions and pneumonia (especially in patients with asthma). COMORBIDITY. Optimal care of patients with RA requires a recognition of the associated comorbid conditions, including an increased risk of cardiovascular death, osteoporosis, infections (especially pneumonia), and an increased risk of certain cancers. Increasingly, cardiovascular disease is being recognized as the cause of much of the excess mortality in RA. A number of factors probably contribute to this mortality, including sedentary lifestyle, glucocorticoid therapy, and treatments that increase homocysteine levels such as methotrexate and sulfasalazine. However, with the recent identification of the strong association between chronic inflammation and cardiovascular disease, it is likely that this may be the most significant factor. Therapies that control RA earlier and better can be expected to decrease cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Clinicians should consider RA a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and should aggressively address other cardiovascular risk factors in their rheumatoid patients. Osteoporosis is ubiquitous in patients with RA, and early therapy results in long-term dividends. Patients with RA are at an increased risk for infections, and this risk is further increased by some of our therapies. Patients should be cautioned to seek medical attention early for even minor symptoms suggestive of infection, especially if receiving anti-TNF therapy. All patients with RA should receive a pneumococcal and yearly influenza vaccinations. Finally, patients with RA have an increased risk of lymphomas. Occasionally, B-cell lymphomas may be associated with immunosuppression and regress after immunosuppression is discontinued. RA patients have significantly decreased risk (odds ratio, 0.2) of developing colon cancer. This is thought to be secondary to chronic inhibition of COX by NSAIDs in this group of patients. Page: < Back 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Next > Cecil Textbook of Medicine By: James R. O'Dell © 2005 ELSEVIER Inc. All Rights Reserved Licensed from Top of page Videos (4) Images (8) Acetabular Prosthesis Treating Rheumatoid Ar... What Causes Rheumatoid... Understanding Rheumato... Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Synovial fluid Rheumatoid arthritis A close-up of a hand d... Colored x ray of hands... False-color x ray of h... General Drug Tools view all tools Tools for Healthy Living view all tools Search Tools view all tools Insurance Plan Tools view all tools Home | Our Plans | Medicare Education | Health & Wellness Site Map | About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Disclaimers | Agents & Brokers Last updated: 2.15.2012 at 12:01 AM CT | Y0066_120105_121057 CMS Approved 03132012 © 2012 United Healthcare Services, Inc. All rights reserved. My Plan Information my plan Effective date: Member ID: view my plan benefits Compare 2011 Plan Options my plan support contact us Have a reference number? Enter it here contact us Reference #: Change or view saved information my plan resources Renew Newsletter (PDF) Renew Newsletter (PDF) Renew Newsletter (PDF) Summary of Benefits (PDF) Evidence of Coverage (Book 1) (PDF) Evidence of Coverage (Book 2) (PDF) Evidence of Coverage (PDF) Formulary (PDF) All Resources & Forms quick links Search for a doctor Look up drugs Look up drugs Learn about terms Order replacement ID card File a medical appeal Request an exception to my drug coverage Update my profile back to top Home | Our Plans | Medicare Education | Health & Wellness Site map | About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Disclaimers | Agents & Brokers Last updated: 2.15.2012 at 12:01 AM | Y0066_120105_121057 CMS Approved 03132012 © 2012 United Healthcare Services, Inc. All rights reserved. What is a reference number? When you register on this site, you are assigned a reference number. This number contains your profile information and helps UnitedHealthcare identify you when you come back to the site. If you searched for a plan on this site in a previous session, you might already have a reference number. This number will contain any information you saved about plans and prescription drugs. To use that reference number, click on the "Change or view saved information" link below. You can retrieve information from previous visits to this s