Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://www.easyvigour.net.nz/fitness/h_back_against_wall.htm
Last-Modified: Sat, 05 Nov 2011 20:55:02 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "30f6a30fd9bcc1:7551"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 03:51:08 GMT
Connection: close

Back Against the Wall Exercises - Therapy for Back Pain upon Lumbar Extension Before printing,  click on F ile, then Pa g e setup, & 
select landscape orientation Back against the wall Therapy for Pain upon Lumbar Extension Pilates Information Pilates Alexander Technique Free pilates Exercises Online Please do not push through pain! Read the Back Therapy Article Pain upon Lumbar Flexion and Extension before proceeding! Back Against the Wall Exercise- Start Position:- Place your back against the wall and your feet one foot length away from the wall. 
Your knees should be nearly straight, but must not lock. Place the back of your head against the wall, then tuck your chin slightly, and 
"relax" your head and neck forward off the wall. Now think "neck be free, head forward and up".
There should be no movement: just a feeling of a buoyant and relaxed head and neck. Gently anchor your scapulas. Back against the wall Exercise- Action:- Zip and hollow, and breathe in. (Breathing out): Push the small of your back into the wall, 
then breathe normally. Think and feel "neck be free, head forward and up".
Listen to any back pain if it is present. Breathe normally for a minute or so. Without changing the shape or your spine, or the relaxation of your neck and head, 
lean forward (diagram 2). Pause to think and feel "neck be free, head forward and up". (Back against the Wall - Therapy, Exercises to ease lower back pain, due to lumbar extension. Pictures: Back against the wall - Back Pain Therapy Exercise Start Position:- Action One:- Action Two:- Back against the wall - Action (continued):- Slowly push yourself up and away from the wall, pause, and start walking as in 
"walking on sharp pebbles" - keep the small of your back flexed as though pushing into the wall! 
Think and feel "neck be free, head forward and up".! Continue "walking on sharp pebbles", and take note of the pain level -  if this exercise has helped, repeat 
it whenever you want relief from your pain. What Back against the Wall Therapy Does: - Immediate Therapy for relief of low back pain due the back moving into lumbar extension, Helps you to get a degree of control over the excessive muscle tension that 
your back pain will be causing. Reference Shirley A Sahrman: "Movement Impairment Syndromes" Publ. Mosby, 2002 
ISBN 0-8016-7205-8 The Official Body Control Pilates Manual Available from: http://www.bodycontrol.co.uk/ Wilfred Barlow: "The Alexander Principle" Arrow Books Ltd. Reprinted 1987 ISBN 0 09 910160 2 Bruce Thomson: Pain upon Lumbar Flexion and Extension (Back pain therapy exerc