<http://honeyandcinnamonhealthbenefits.com/?p=33>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 14:17:23 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Honey and Cinnamon For Arthritis Pain | Honey and Cinnamon Health Benefits Honey and Cinnamon Health Benefits Honey and Cinnamon Blog Home Blog Advertise Here Contact Us Disclaimer About Honey and Cinnamon For Arthritis Pain Arthritis is no doubt a painful experience for anyone who affected with this disease. There are indeed different chemical medicine that reduce the pain but a natural remedy certainly a more appropriate option without any side effects. So, how to relieve arthritis pain with honey and cinnamon? Is honey and cinnamon really work on arthritis? Let’s check out what researcher saying. Researchers on Copenhagen University found that doctors who treated their patients with a mixture of one tablespoon Honey and half teaspoon Cinnamon powder before breakfast notice within a week out of the 200 people so treated practically 73 patients were totally relieved of pain. Honey and Cinnamon For Arthritis Recipe There are different variant of honey and cinnamon for arthritis recipe are available, however all reflect the same method but the quantity is different. The main recipe is, take one cup of hot water with two teaspoons of honey and one small teaspoon of cinnamon powder. Now if you feel it’s too sweet for you then reduce the amount of honey to one teaspoon , similarly if if the cinnamon taste is too hard to take, then reduce it to half a teaspoon. To get relief from itching instantly try honey and cinnamon paste. To create paste, mix one part honey to two parts of lukewarm water and add a small teaspoon of cinnamon powder until it forms a paste. Apply the paste on itching part of your body in slow circular motion. Most people have found that their pain magically reduced within a minute. Take this mixture daily at morning and night to get best result. This home remedy surely helps lot of people around the world to get relief from arthritis pain. So, it definitely worth a try as you don’t lose anything but high chances to get relief from painful arthritis. If taken regularly then it even can cure chronic arthritis. The combination of honey and cinnamon not only help you to get relief from arthritis but it’s also helpful for hair loss, heart diseases, bladder infection, toothache, cholesterol (even chronic cholesterol), common cold problem, infertility, weight loss and cancer. Researcher found honey and cinnamon mixture also work with many other types of diseases. Honey and cinnamon should not stay only in your kitchen but also in your home medicine box. Remember, only raw honey will work not the one which comes with the label of PURE. Also, good cinnamon is important, always buy best quality of cinnamon for right treatment. ← Honey and Cinnamon for Weight Loss Honey and Cinnamon For Heart Diseases → Leave a Reply Discard Reply Name * Email * Website + 7 =  eleven Comment Love This Blog Then Add a +1 Latest Blog Post Honey and Cinnamon For Asthma Honey and Cinnamon For Cholesterol Honey And Cinnamon For Acne Honey and Cinnamon For Infertility Honey and Cinnamon For Heart Diseases Honey and Cinnamon For Arthritis Pain Honey and Cinnamon for Weight Loss Health Benefits of Honey and C