
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/0.7.61
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 22:17:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Connection: close
Expires: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 22:17:20 GMT
Vary: Cookie
Last-Modified: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 22:17:20 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=0
Set-Cookie: Article="Fibromyalgia,Education,VaricoseVeins,SportsBetting,AUtomobile"; Path=/
Set-Cookie: tzs=4436619|1330985839; expires=Thu, 03-Mar-22 22:17:20 GMT; Path=/

Anyone have any otc treatments for fibromyalgia symptoms? - Fibromyalgia - Zimbio Zimbio | StyleBistro Register | Login Today: Oscars Best Dressed , Oscar Winners , Girls and Reality TV HOME PICTURES VIDEOS CELEBS MOVIES TV MUSIC WELLNESS MORE Current Events Sports Games Dating Polls Photo Specials Fibromyalgia Main Articles Notes Links Anyone have any otc treatments for fibromyalgia symptoms? By clarkthomasonhu on 2012-03-04 17:41:51 | From twfibromyalgia.info Anyone have any otc treatments for fibromyalgia symptoms ? I have been on Lyrica for months now and it has worked.  You should consult your doctor.  I am sorry you are going through that pain.I feel sorry for people with fibro. My dad has it severly and misses alot of work because of it. Such a terrible painful thing to go through. He gets massages every week and it’s covered by insurance since he has medical reasons for it. I would suggest doing the same.My mother in law has this too. She dexoxifys her body with those foot pads as well as a machine. She swears it helps.Kill it with FIRE!!did you go yo doctor about this. http://www.fibromyalgia-support.org/fibromyalgia- treatments See a Natopathic Dr. who has experience in treating fibromyalgia, many have had outstanding results. I have also seen a couple of people with fibromyalgia who did extensive research on natural medicine and created their own treatment plans and had great success. There has also been some new medical break throughs in treating fibromyalgia recently – you can do a search on them. Living with fibromyalgia is difficult but not impossible to decrease the pains or even put into remission.  Have hope, get help, get yourself as educated as possible.  Natural medicine has the best results.I have fibro. I work out with a personal trainer (awesome; helps a lot) and since he mentioned it, I realized he is right–when i have sugar in my diet, I will be hurting. The end. Medicine-wise, I take Neurontin (gabapentin), Skelaxin, and Cymbalta. These are helpful together. Occasionally I take Flexeril (Cyclobenzaprine); it’s a muscle relaxer that works well but totally knocks me out. As far as OTC is concerned, my first thought is definitely food-related. Cut out all the refined sugar and simple carbs you can stand to; you will feel so much better!Hi there, I too have fibromyalgia – painful, isn’t it. I am in the UK, so not sure if you have the same things available but I find that co-codamol (paracetamol 500mg with codeine 8mg) and voltarol gel (diclofenac – an antiinflammatory in a topical gel) seem to help when it gets really bad. You could also try going for a full body massage as this may help. My doctor recommended doing some gentle excercise, such as walking on a treadmill, gentle cycling on an excercise bike and stretches, and it has helped me a little. I do the excercise on my good days and it does seem to make a difference. You could also try having a hot bath with some bathing salts in, and try using hot and cold compresses on the worst bits of you – you will probably find one helps more then the other – for me its heat that helps. For your stomach you could try drinking herbal tea – the following seem to help me: peppermint tea, liqourish tea, cardamon tea. Also try doing a few deep breathing excercises – breathe in to a count of 7 and out to a count of 11, try doing a few deep breaths like this every hour or so with your hands on your belly. It can help you relax, as sometimes when you get tense it makes your muscle pains worse I hope that helpsI’ve had Fibromyalgia for about 15 years now and was that it was incurable. I had horrible pains in my legs arms every where. I went to a naturalpath. I take Cal-mag (calcium and magnesium) for the leg cramps, a all natural multiple vitamin (doubleX) and I was on DHEA These ingredients helped me tremendously. I run, lift weights and I’m about to join a ladies boot camp. It takes awhile but it really does get better. I do still have some bad days,but they don’t out number the good any more. If you need any more information please feel free to contact me. Take care and good luck!! LorraineI have leg cramps, abdominal spasms and pain, shoulder muscle pain, low back ache, and jaw pain.  All of these are supposedly associated with fibromyalgia symptoms , along with many others.  Has anyone out there found any alternative or otc treatments to help?  The prescription Lyrica and Cymbalta didn’t help, nor did acupuncture.  So those would have to be left off my choices.  I am at my wits end, so any help would be greatly appreciated. Thought I would add also that there aren’t really any knowledgeable doctors in my area regarding fibromyalgia and I can’t afford massages as they’re not covered by my insurance otherwise I would use them for the back muscle cramps.  I haven’t chosen any one answer as best because no one’s come up with anything I haven’t already tried, other than the foot pads. Related Articles: Fibromyalgia Symptoms In Men Fibromyalgia Symptoms In Men To view this post content please Like it on either Facebook, Twitter or Google+
Tweet... Read Full Story » A 27 year old female with EXCESSIVE tiredness. Why? A 27 year old female with EXCESSIVE tiredness. Why? A 27 year old female with EXCESSIVE tiredness. Why? “It’s never Lupus.” 
Did you have nausea before the Cymbalta? Frequent urination? 
It’s possible (but I’m sure the good doc checked the blood... Read Full Story » Define Fibromyalgia Define Fibromyalgia Trigger Point – Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia Evidence based medicine researchers concluded... Read Full Story » Fibromyalgia Trigger Points Diagram Fibromyalgia Trigger Points Diagram To view this post content please Like it on either Facebook, Twitter or Google+
Tweet... Read Full Story » Cant sleep,fibromyalgia pain is hurting me soo bad. i have a heating pad on my back and took a lyrica ? Cant sleep,fibromyalgia pain is hurting me soo bad. i hav... Cant sleep,fibromyalgia pain is hurting me soo bad. i have a heating pad on my back and took a lyrica ? Valium?it is caused by nerve interference to the thyroid. see an hio method upper cervical... Read Full Story » Advertisements Comments Featured Stories Celebrity Endorsed Diets Famous Chefs: Jamie Oliver The 50 Most Beautiful Women Over 50 30 Greenest Celebs Celebs Hit the Gym more » Zimbio TV Roundup: Is Tim Tebow the Next Bachelor? Famous Hacker Victims Kim Kardashian Donates Twice the Value of Her Wedding... Inside Justin Bieber's Surprise 18th Birthday Party Watch Lindsay Lohan on 'Saturday Night Live' Spotted: Vanessa Hudgens and Ashley Benson Get Soaked at... More » StyleBistro Charlotte Casiraghi Is the New Face of Gucci Look of the Day: Ginnifer Goodwin Is a Beauty in Burnt... How to Recreate Michelle Williams' Radiant Red Carpet Style Poll: Who Wins Best Dressed of the Week? Gwyneth Paltrow Explains Her 2012 Oscars Caped Dress Game: Who Looks Best in a Single-Shoulder Dress? More » Home Terms & Policies Help Company Wikizine For Bloggers Advertise Sitemap Contentmap About Us Zimbio Entertainment Copyright © 2012 - Zimbio, Inc. 