< Academy Jump to: navigation , search Navigation Main Page Acupuncture Clinic Academy Research Publications Dr. Singh Contact Us Referral Form Site Map Printable version Login Print this page Vancouver, Canada, 2005 Stockholm, Sweden, 1981 Contents 1 CTCMA Accredited Workshops and Seminars 1.1 Acupuncture – Modern Scientific Views 1.2 Development of Diagnostic Skills and a Closer Look at Pulse 1.3 Acupuncture In Relation To Yoga and the Chakras – In Health and Disease 1.4 Acupuncture Treatment of Allergies and Asthma 1.5 Acupuncture Treatment of Diabetes and Hypertension using new points 1.6 Acupuncture Treatment of Obesity (using Bhupendra Techniques) 1.7 Role of Acupuncture in dealing with Life Threatening Emergencies 1.8 Acupuncture Treatment and Management of Stroke Patients 1.9 Role of Acupuncture in Ophthalmology 1.10 Prevention and Treatment of Sinusitis, Common cold and Flu Using New Acupuncture Points 1.11 Stimulation techniques and finer nuances of Electro-acupuncture 1.12 Treatment of Male Infertility (Azoospermia) Using New Acupuncture Points 1.13 Traditional Chinese Medicine Diagnosis – Made Easy 1.14 Cosmetic Breast Correction Using Bhupendra Techniques of Acupuncture 1.15 Treatment of Impotence, Using New Acupuncture Points 1.16 Treatment of Cervical Spondylosis Using New Points CTCMA Accredited Workshops and Seminars Kindly refer to the CTCMA Website for the dates and times of the following workshops Acupuncture – Modern Scientific Views Approved Credit 12 hrs (over two days) (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D. (Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc. (Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description This course will familiarize students with the concept of Qi and acupuncture points and Meridians from a modern scientific perspective. In today’s western society it is becoming more imperative for practitioners to be able to communicate to patients the mechanism of acupuncture in terminology and language they can relate to and understand. The mechanism of Acupuncture in the treatment of a vast number of diseases and also in the field of Anaesthesia, Cosmetic, and Prevention can be very well explained to Westerners on the basis of the Nervous System. Course Objectives To understand acupuncture from a modern scientific viewpoint To highlight the studies confirming the existence of acupuncture meridians and points To view the concept of Qi from a modern perspective To explore the possible mechanism of acupuncture based on many modern theories To understand the basic mechanism involved in the treatment of many diseases and disorders of Painful, Allergic, Metabolic, Degenerative and Endocrinal origin such as Arthritis, Asthma, Diabetes, Parkinson’s, Strokes, and Obesity To better equip the practitioners to be able to answer and explain the queries of many Westerners who look at Acupuncture with a degree of scepticism To help bring Acupuncture into the mainstream medical system from the fringe To be more respected and trusted in western society Development of Diagnostic Skills and a Closer Look at Pulse Approved Credit 12 hrs (over two days) (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D. (Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description There are two ways of doing things – the easier way and the harder way. There are more than 28 pulses described in TCM diagnosis whose variations are very subtle and often overlap each other, causing confusion and frustration for a practitioner and often leaving them in a state of limbo and loss of interest. The fact is that some pulses emerge only at the terminal stage of life and may not be routinely observed by many of us. This workshop will not only help practitioners to generate interest in diagnosis but also make it more easy and enjoyable. The diagnostic process of good practitioner starts right from the time the patient first steps in the clinic and continues until the patient is in his care. Dr. B.K. Singh has been teaching a practical and “Made Easy” blend of East and West clinical diagnostic process in many countries for the last 35 years during his clinical and teaching career, and has published two celebrated books “Acupuncture Pulse Diagnosis” and “TCM diagnosis” in 1982 and 2003 respectively based on his vast experience. This workshop will first refresh the practitioner with the overall theoretical aspects of diagnosis and then focus on a practical approach, personal with experiences, case examples, and hands on pulse. Highlights Importance of diagnosis A general look at TCM diagnosis Finer nuances of diagnostic skills Basic principles of tongue diagnosis An easy and quick reference to TCM tongue diagnosis Introduction to pulse diagnosis and its importance Conceptual differentiation between Western and Eastern pulses Physiological pulse variations Normal Physiological pulse variations at different stages of life Basic fundamentals of pulse diagnosis Normal pulses Differentiation of pulses Abnormal pulses Pitfalls of pulse diagnosis and their solution Hands on pulse diagnosis Acupuncture In Relation To Yoga and the Chakras – In Health and Disease Approved Credit 12 hrs (over two days) Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description The Indians and the Chinese have a very deep spiritual and conceptual relationship not only due to their geographical closeness, but also due to the spices and silk trade. Buddhism brought them closer. In Nalanda university (now in Bihar state), during the rule of King Harsh, many Chinese scholars used to come to learn Sanskrit and observed the Indian way of life in health and disease. This workshop will enlighten the registrants with the many unknown origins and developmental aspects of Acupuncture and their relation to Traditional Indian Culture, Yoga, and the Nadi and Chakra Systems. This lecture will also discuss the history and development of Yoga from the time the Aryans arrived in central Asia 7000 years back and how Yoga the various forms and techniques of Yoga were developed through Indian, Chinese and Siberian influence. This lecture will also describe the migration of the European branch, and language and cultural development in the Indus Valley. This will be a unique workshop that will enable participants to understand the origins and development of acupuncture in relation to Yoga and its therapeutic importance. Highlights Widespread Origins of Acupuncture Origin and Development of Yoga Types of Yoga Comparative study of Acupuncture Meridians and the Indian Nadi System Indian and Chinese concept of the five elements Acupuncture points and Kundalini Chakras Comparative study of the therapeutic effects of both systems Spiritual connections in Health and Dis-ease Importance of this study. Acupuncture Treatment of Allergies and Asthma Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description Bronchial Asthma is a fast growing problem at the present time due to multiple causes. This workshop will discuss the causes of increasing incidence of Bronchial Asthma and its differentiation from Cardiac Asthma and their management. Practitioners will also learn the basic mechanism of Asthmatic attacks, and how Acupuncture can be used without complications. The basic mechanism of how acupuncture helps in these cases will also be discussed in detail. Asthma can be a manifestation of an underlying disease and it can also give birth to many diseases. Comprehensive preventive measures will be elaborated. Highlights Etiological factors Diagnosis Differential Diagnosis Management of Acute stage Treatment of chronic Asthma Selection of Points Stimulation Techniques Mechanism of Action Precautions Breathing and Yogic Exercises Rehabilitation Acupuncture Treatment of Diabetes and Hypertension using new points Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description Diabetes and Hypertension are fast growing health concerns in societies all over the globe due to many factors. Unfortunately there is no curative treatment available in conventional medicine for either problem. The drugs presently used for these disorders are not free from side effects and also one has to learn to live with the disease throughout his life and consume medicines as part of a regular diet to survive. Often doses are increased from time to time and newer and newer drugs are pouring in, more or less on a regular basis and are being dumped in the patient’s body on an experimental basis. This workshop will open new dimensions for many practitioners in treating patients with these problems, especially using new acupuncture point from a different perspective. Practitioners will also understand exact body mechanisms whereby even increasingly higher doses of insulin and anti-hypertensive medicines are not able to control the disease. Highlights Diagnostic procedure Signs and Symptoms Causes Pathogenesis of the disease Complications of the disease Selection of cases Principles for point selection Location of new point Insertion and stimulation techniques Acupuncture Treatment of Obesity (using Bhupendra Techniques) Approved Credit 3 hours Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D. (Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc. (Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description Obesity, especially in North America is a fast emerging major cause of many health problems. In spite of many claims to control this menace by using drugs, herbal preparations, exercises, diets, liposuction, and cosmetic surgeries, nothing seems to works for sure, and permanently and without side effects. No system is without flaws. Dr. B. K Singh has treated many people suffering from this disorder, especially from the glamour world, using his techniques on different parts of the body. Practitioners will learn how to reduce fat from specific areas of the body such as hips, abdomen, thighs, arms and double chin without much alteration of the patient’s diet and lifestyle. This course will familiarize practitioners as to why many drugs, herbs, dieting, liposuction, and over exercising fail, and their partial negative effects on body normal body physiology. Highlights Causes of Obesity Classification and body distribution Pathogenesis Differential diagnosis Principles of treatment Selection of points Location, insertion of metabolic, diuretic, and hunger points Stimulation techniques Massage Yogic exercises and postures Rehabilitation Role of Acupuncture in dealing with Life Threatening Emergencies Approved Credit 3 hours Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description Acupuncture can be used as a powerful tool while dealing with many emergencies, which can arrive without warning at any time and at any place, such as in many functions, travels, and work places especially where a group of workers are cut off from the rest of the world, for example off shore rigging, polar ventures, natural disasters, war zones, and space research. A doctor without his equipment and medicine can’t do much, while an acupuncturist can provide life saving first aid with a pair of his expert hands and a few needles if available, saving a lot of lives. Dr. B. K. Singh has helped many such victims during his far travels in flights, trains, ferries, road accidents, and play grounds emergencies. It just requires presence of mind, little courage, and the will to help. This workshop will help the registrants to understand emergency situations, legal obligations, and the steps and procedure to deal with many life emergencies such as Syncope, Strokes, Coronary insufficiency and TIA, Status Asthmaticus, Hemorrhagic conditions, Burns, Status Epilepticus , Choking, Road Accidents, Threaten Abortion, Child Birth, Heat stroke, Hyper Pyrexia, Motion Sickness, Accidental poisoning, Hypoglycaemic shock, and many more. Highlights Assessment of the situation Diagnosis Instructions to surrounding persons Legal responsibilities Differentiation of hypoglycaemic and diabetic coma Differentiation of Angina pectoris and Myocardial infarction Procedure Points to be used Stimulation techniques Rehabilitation Acupuncture Treatment and Management of Stroke Patients Approved Credit 3 hours Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers. Description Stroke cases are growing in number due to many causes and in conventional medicine scope is limited and frustrating, particularly once paralysis sets in. Acupuncture can play a very important role in helping these unfortunate cases. This workshop will discuss the differentiation of different types of strokes and their management in acute as well as in the paralytic stage. The practitioners will also learn the basic mechanism of stroke and mechanism of acupuncture response in treating such cases. Dr. Singh will also discuss the points and techniques which may be utilized as blood thinner in prevention of TIA and other coronary insufficiency. Highlights Diagnostic Procedure Differential Diagnosis Differentiation of Syncope and Stroke Selection of Points Stimulation Techniques Management of Deformities Mechanism of Action Massage Techniques Rehabilitation Points and Techniques  for Prevention of Further Attacks Role of Acupuncture in Ophthalmology Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). International speaker, researcher, and author of 17 books and over 100 research papers Description Acupuncture can be a great asset in treating many eye problems, especially those which have little or no response in the conventional system of medicine. Unfortunately it has not been a focus for many Acupuncturists. Dr. B.K. Singh has treated successfully many patients with several eye problems such as Retinits Pigmentosa, Macular degeneration, Optic Atrophy, Progressive Pathological Myopia, Marginal Squint, Ocular Myopathy, Glaucoma, Dacrocystitis, and Retinal Detachment. This course will familiarize the registrants with the Anatomy, and Physiology of the eye, the Pathogenesis of the disease process, signs and symptoms of specific diseases, and their result oriented acupuncture treatment. Highlights Scope of Acupuncture in Ophthalmology Structure of the human eye Physiology of the eye Physiology of image formation Visual pathways Eye disease response to Acupuncture Signs and symptoms of specific eye diseases Diagnosis Treatment procedure Contraindications and care Prevention and Treatment of Sinusitis, Common cold and Flu Using New Acupuncture Points Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). Description Common cold and Sinusitis is a more prevalent in winter days due to multiple causes. It is not only highly infectious and patient suffer with a feeling of malaise, low energy, mood swings, headache, fever, running nose, and sneezes at the time of acute infection but also there is a loss of appetite, lethargy, and intermittent headache for a long time. Transient inflammation of the lining of nasal sinuses occurs in most cases during acute upper respiratory infection leading to blockage of ostrium and formation of puss under pressure. A study was conducted on many cases of sinusitis, common cold, and flu by Prof. Dr. B. K. Singh and associates and was first presented in Soul, Korea in 1988 during a World Holistic Medicine Conference. A detailed account of the study will be discussed for practical benefits of the practitioners. Highlights Causes of Sinusitis and upper respiratory infections Pathogenesis Clinical manifestations Location of new points Insertion techniques Stimulation Mechanism of action Prevention Role of diet and medicines Stimulation techniques and finer nuances of Electro-acupuncture Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D. (Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc.(Sweden). Description Electro-acupuncture can be very useful in many diseases and disorders with excellent results, while saving treatment time of the patient as well as of the practitioner. This workshop will familiarize the registrants about the use of electro-acupuncture techniques and its advantages. One should also know where to refrain from which type of mechanical stimulation and how to chose the frequency and intensity for point stimulation in various diseases for maximum beneficial effects. It is easy, safe, convenient and practical to use especially in corrective treatment such as Bell’s palsy, wrist drop, foot drop, eversion and inversion of foot, toning of the muscles in obesity, and ptosis etc. Highlights Introduction Basic concepts Types of stimulation and frequencies Indications Contraindications Selection of cases as per pulse diagnosis Techniques Advantages Care and precautions Role in deformities and corrective treatment Treatment of Male Infertility (Azoospermia) Using New Acupuncture Points Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K. Singh, B.Sc., MBBS. (Lucknow), D.Ac. (India), Ph.D. (Colombo), D.Litt, D.Sc. (Sweden). Description Male infertility in a growing problem due to many causes. Usually there is either total absence of sperms or sperms are not healthy and motile enough to reach the ova and fertile. Female orgasm and vaginal secretions also play a great role in the process of fertilization and selecting the sex of the foetus. Azoospermia and oligospermina are the main causes of male infertility because of absence of living spermatozoa or non-mobile sperms in the semen. A study was conducted on 126 patients by Dr. B.K.  Singh and associates in Canada, India and Europe mainly, during the period of 17 years by using new acupuncture points on testicles.  The success rate of this study was calculated as 61.90%. All the cases were properly screened before the study. A special diet was also recommended for the patients during the treatment and sex was totally prohibited till the semen analysis. Highlights Causes of male infertility Geographical distribution Study of male productive system Pathogenesis Selection of cases Location of new points Insertion and stimulation technique Mechanism of action Precautions Diet recommendations Traditional Chinese Medicine Diagnosis – Made Easy Approved Credit 12 hrs (over two days) (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K. Singh, B.Sc., M.B.B.S. (Lucknow), D.Ac.(India), Ph.D. (Colombo), D.Litt., D.Sc. (Sweden), R.Ac (BC). International teaching experience in 40 countries, author of 108 international research papers, and 17 celebrated books including "Pulse Diagnosis". Description Diagnosis is the foremost and very first important step in every system of medicine before the line of treatment is decided. In this modern fast-paced era we have many modern diagnostic tools, as a result of which we are losing our sense of clinical diagnosis. No wonder, many times the correct diagnosis is not made and treatment is started, and sometimes it is only established on the autopsy table, just to satisfy our inquisitive minds.  Due to the fact that we as TCM practitioners and Acupuncturists are not accessible to these modern diagnostic methods and also due to the fundamentally different approach to diagnosis and treatment in TCM, it becomes all the more important to learn and master our traditional diagnostic methods, which requires a lot of patience and practice, especially in pulse diagnosis. Although there are some similarities between western medicine and TCM, but in certain other aspects there are many essential and remarkable differences, which will be discussed in detail in this workshop. Highlights Day one A general introduction Four traditional Chinese diagnostic methods Characteristics of pain and its differential diagnosis Tongue diagnosis and its broad classification Comparison of Eastern and Western concepts of tongue diagnosis Day Two Introduction to pulse diagnosis and its importance Basic fundamentals of pulse diagnosis Normal and abnormal pulses Pitfalls of pulse diagnosis and its solution Differentiation of pulses Cosmetic Breast Correction Using Bhupendra Techniques of Acupuncture Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K.Singh, B.Sc., M.B.B.S.(Lucknow), D.Ac.(India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt., D.Sc.(Sweden), R.Ac (BC, Canada). International teacher and author of 108 international research papers, and 17 celebrated books including “TCM Pulse Diagnosis” Description A study was conducted by Prof. Dr. B.K. Singh and his associates on many breast related problems such as under developed breast, drooping breast, asymmetrical breast, breast tenderness, oversized breast and male breast (Gynaecomastia) on 18 subjects during a period of 24 years in Canada, India, UK, USSR, and US. A total of 8 sets of points were used around the periphery of the breast tissue at definite locations. Electro-stimulation was given by Bhupendra Techniques Acupuntoscope, with proper combination of points, using different types of stimulation in each individual case.  A total of 4 males were treated for Gynaecomastia among 18 subjects. All the females were unmarried and belonged to the age group of 18 years to 45 years.  A detailed account of the study will be discussed with the location, insertion, and stimulation of new points and massage techniques. Highlights Study of the breast anatomy Causes of the problem Pathogenesis Location of the points Insertion and stimulation techniques Bhupendra Techniques of massage Treatment of Impotence, Using New Acupuncture Points Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K.Singh, B.Sc., M.B.B.S.(Lucknow), D.Ac.(India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt., D.Sc.(Sweden), R.Ac (BC, Canada). International teacher and author of 108 international research papers, and 17 celebrated books including “TCM Pulse Diagnosis” Description Prof. B.K Singh and his associates conducted a study on male sexual problems such as loss of libido, weak erection and poor performance on a group of 207 patients between the age group of 35 years to 72 years during a period of 23 years in Canada, India, Netherlands, Australia and US, by using new acupuncture points around the male genitals.  Patients were also recommended a special diet and abstain from the sex life during the course of treatment.  A detailed account of the study including TCM and western approach of the problem will be discussed along with the location, insertion, and stimulation techniques of the new points. Highlights Study of male genitals anatomy and physiology Physiology of coitus Causes and types of impotence Western and TCM approach of treatment Location of the points Insertion and stimulation techniques Mechanism of action Diet recommendation Treatment of Cervical Spondylosis Using New Points Approved Credit 3 hours (Venue and Date to be announced) Language English Instructor B.K.Singh, B.Sc., M.B.B.S.(Lucknow), D.Ac.(India), Ph.D.(Colombo), D.Litt., D.Sc.(Sweden), R.Ac (BC, Canada). International teacher and author of 108 international research papers, and 17 celebrated books including “TCM Pulse Diagnosis” Description B.K. Singh and associates conducted a study on 63 patients, suffering from neck pain, during a period of 22 years, using a set of 5 new points on the cervical region. The study was conducted in India, Netherlands, England and Australia with very encouraging results.  A detailed account of the study will be discussed along with the location, insertion and stimulation techniques of the new points. Highlights Study of the anatomy of cervical vertebrae and pathogenesis Causes of neck pain and its differential diagnosis Signs and symptoms Western and traditional approach of treatment Location of the new points Insertion and stimulation techniques Rehabilitation and Yoga exercises Top Retrieved from " http://www.bhupendratechniques.com/Academy/ContinuingEducation " This page was last modified