Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Set-Cookie: SS_X_JSESSIONID=ED07475699756C14D441D19F5B791ADD; Path=/
X-Cache-Lookup: MISS from news.com.au:80
Cache-Control: max-age=277
Expires: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 06:10:42 GMT
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 06:06:05 GMT
Connection: close

Taxpayers help pay for fat cops' lap-band surgery |
			Perth Now Skip to: Main Content Site Navigation Site Footer Site Search Site Map Network Navigation (other sites) news.com.au Fox Sports CareerOne Carsguide RealEstate News Network Perth Now News Sport AFL Basketball Grand Prix Rugby Gold NRL Cricket Olympics Racing Motor Sport Soccer Tennis Other Sports SportFM 91.3 Entertainment Perth Confidential Fringe World Samsung AACTA Awards What's on at Burswood Photo Galleries Business Breaking News Mining and Energy Local Business News Property Media and Marketing Markets Worklife Your Business Archive Money Banking Money Matters Superannuation Investing Interest Rates Guides & Tools Blogs Property Home Magazine House of the Week Land Property Search In My Suburb Travel Travel News Australia World Holiday Ideas Holiday Deals Book Your Trip Travel Advice Galleries Lifestyle Technology Food & Wine Fashion & Beauty Fishing Social Scene Galleries Lifestyle Galleries Video Games Games Competitions Horoscopes Classifieds Classifieds Place my ad CareerOne Carsguide Realestate.com.au TrueLocal body+soul Body + Soul Feel better Lose weight Look good Win stuff National The Australian news.com.au The Punch FOXSPORTS SportingPulse State and Territory The Telegraph Courier Mail Herald Sun AdelaideNow Perth Now NT News The Mercury Regional and Community Townsville Bulletin Cairns.com.au Goldcoast.com.au Geelong Advertiser Weekly Times Now Community Newspapers Lifestyle Vogue Taste Kidspot body+soul homelife Marketplace Moshtix Foxtix Getprice Shopferret OurDeal WeGo Travel Learning Seat Top Stories Breaking News Western Australia National Opinion Environment World Weather Archives Photo Galleries Photo Sales Special Features Last updated: March 14, 2012 Search for: Weather: Perth 16 °C -
						30 °C .
					 Sunny. News Taxpayers help pay for fat cops' lap-band surgery by: EXCLUSIVE By NICOLE COX Police Reporter From: The Sunday Times February 06, 2010 7:00PM Increase Text Size Decrease Text Size Print Email Share Add to Digg Add to del.icio.us Add to Facebook Add to Kwoff Add to Myspace Add to Newsvine What are these? TAXPAYERS are helping to pay for overweight cops to have radical gastric-banding stomach surgery as part of a WA Police fat-busting initiative. The Sunday Times can reveal that top brass and the Police Union have agreed to pay up to $2000 towards lap-banding operations for obese officers in a bid to counter chronic illnesses. Several officers, mostly frontline and traffic police, have already undergone the surgery, the WA Police Union confirmed yesterday. The expenditure coincides with drastic State Government ordered belt-tightening, which has seen frontline officers stripped of 115 mobile phones, more than 80 police motorcycles sold off and the police fleet slashed by 50 vehicles after a directive to reduce car costs by 10 per cent. Under laparoscopic gastric banding surgery, a band, similar to the size of a wristwatch, is fastened around the upper stomach to create a small pouch which restricts the amount of food that can be consumed. Operations generally cost about $6000. Start of sidebar. Skip to end of sidebar. Recommended Coverage Elite cops axed despite concerns WA Police disbanded its elite Major Incident Group despite a report expressing concerns about evidence contamination and inexperienced detectives&nbsp;handling crimes. End of sidebar. Return to start of sidebar. Public Health Association of Australia president Mike Daube slammed the move, saying he was shocked that police, who were meant to be among the fittest and most active members of society, would be candidates for obesity surgery."If police officers are so obese that they need gastric banding surgery, they're not going to be very effective coppers," said Prof Daube, a former WA Health Department director-general. "We need our police to be fit, not fat." But WA Police executive director Greg Italiano defended the initiative, saying the subsidy was a worthwhile investment in improving the health of police officers who were suffering obesity-related chronic illness and would inevitably save the force money. Under the new agreement, the force will reimburse half the cost of the procedure, to a maximum of $2000. If the officer has private health insurance cover, the gap between any refund or reimbursement up to $2000 will be paid. To qualify for the subsidy, a comprehensive health or treatment plan must be established by the officer's doctor and provided to the WA Police health and welfare department. WA police officers are not subjected to compulsory or regular fitness tests, although most major police stations have gyms. "Under the current EBA WA police officers are entitled to up to 168 sick leave days a year (with a medical certificate) and the agency also bears the cost of work and most non-work related medical expenses," Mr Italiano said. "If we can assist in improving the health of officers suffering from obesity-related health problems, we believe we will ultimately reduce total sick leave days, decrease overall medical costs and maximise the number of operationally deployable police officers."WA Police Union president Russell Armstrong yesterday applauded the initiative. "We are extremely happy," he said. "There have been people who have had the surgery and they have lost a huge amount of weight. "Some people have said to me: 'They should go out and go to a gym or whatever', but these people just can't diet, they just can't lose weight. Some people will criticise, but there's not that many (officers) who are obesely overweight."It's a certain few and they're the ones who have obviously tried to diet over the years and just can't do it and as a last resort they go to their specialist and they have the lap-banding done." Treasurer Troy Buswell declined to comment, but Police Minister Rob Johnson said: "Anything that can improve the health of our police officers and return them to the frontline is a step in the right direction". "I think there will be a cost benefit as it will reduce  the number of officers on sick leave and return them to the frontline, where  they will be more productive.'' Subscribe to our Email Newsletter Increase Text Size Decrease Text Size Print Email Share Add to Digg Add to del.icio.us Add to Facebook Add to Kwoff Add to Myspace Add to Newsvine What are these? Back to top of page Have your say Skip to: Read comments Add comments Comments on this story Richard of Out Back WA Posted at 11:15 AM February 17, 2010 Get over yourself s, if you read their EBA they are entitled to free medical as part of their conditions of service just like the defence force. Hell they can even get boob jobs done. get real Posted at 9:18 AM February 17, 2010 send them to boot camp and give them exercise,stop putting them behind desks and get them patrolling the streets where crime happens. Ebenoongar Scrooge of Bunbury Posted at 7:46 AM February 14, 2010 Police "work" while we're sleeping? Bah Humbug!! Other service providers do as well and it's evident! Ambos, Nurses, Doctors, Army, Navy, Shires, and a myriad of other professionals work rostered hours that take place while we're sleeping, and in this day and age healthy foods are readily available at a number of 24 hour establishments that sell these goods, it's what they choose to eat that determines where they're at body-wise just like any other individual. That's just my opinion and FYI - 1.) I have a job and pay taxes (but not for free Macca's munching Police to have cosmetic surgery!, 2.) Work doesn't permit "personal" use of a computer, something that seems remiss in certain instances "with" the force these days, and 3.) A full length mirror for your co-workers these days would also need to accommodate the GIRTH factors that the BIB want us, the public general, to pay for? STEP FORWARD at a JENNY CRAIG COUNTER, maybe then you and yours could...I dunno!.... do a better job Instead of whinging about people rightfully complaining about having to pay for these ludicrous operations.... Add your comment on this story Comments Form Enter your comment here * 1200 characters left Your details Full name (will appear on site) * Email Address * Location (optional) Post Options Remember my details Email me if my comment is published Submit Perth Weather Forecast More Weather Please install the latest Flash player [To view Flash please enable JavaScript and Flash.] Top Stories More Top Stories O'Callaghan's contract will be renewed - Barnett WA PREMIER says the police commissioner has full support despite allegations he gave false evidence to a bushfire inquiry and misused his corporate credit card. CCC: Top cop won't stand down over CCC probe Teen died in fire as desperate dad held on Taliban's payback attack over killings Thorpe predicts fastest swims yet A bumful of dollars - Bikie's cash in dark place Latest Sport News More Sport Woosha challenges Eagles to fly higher WEST Coast coach John Worsfold has challenged his Eagles to defy expectations for a second consecutive season. Jon Ralph: Nic jumps in with charm slam dunk Marsh axed, Beer in for Windies Thorpe predicts fastest swims yet Points are Ricciardo's goal Bogut traded by Bucks to Warriors Latest Entertainment News More Entertainment Bear Grylls fired by Discovery Channel A DISAGREEMENT over programming means the Discovery Channel has cut ties with TV adventurer Bear Grylls. 44 comments on this story Pictures: Man Vs Wild Snooki, Kim K among most overpaid celebs Reality TV cameras in Eastwood's home Teri said Housewives death plot 'bad idea' Twilight, 90210 star end 11 year marriage Feedback Drop us a line at news@perthnow.com.au Mobile RSS Feeds Newsletters Send Stories Send Your Photos About Us Contact Us Advertise with us Sponsorship Job Opportunities Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Sitem