
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 06:25:42 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 06:25:42 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Dental Caries skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Dental Caries Follow the links below to find information about dental caries or cavities. Reviewed March 2012 Printer friendly page 33 Resources Found Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Title: Milk - facts and fallacies Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Milk is an excellent source of vitamins and minerals, particularly calcium. However, some common fallacies or myths about milk may encourage some people to restrict their intake. There is no scientific basis to the theory that milk encourages extra mucous production. Date: Feb 2012 Title: Interventions to change diet in a dental care environment Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Unhealthy sugar consumption habits are known to be associated with high rates of dental decay, and fizzy drink consumption habits associated with tooth enamel being dissolved (dental erosion). Members of the dental team routinely assess patients' diets,... Date: Jan 2012 Title: Pregnancy - teeth Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: Caring for your teeth during pregnancy - answers to some common questions about teeth and pregnancy. Date: Jan 2012 Title: Dental fillings Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Dental fillings are used to restore teeth and treat tooth decay. Modern dental amalgam(metal alloy) or silver fillings are durable, cheap and low in mercury. Some people should not use amalgam fillings including pregnant and breastfeeding women, children and people with kidney disease. Alternative tooth-coloured filling materials have become more common and affordable. Date: Nov 2011 Title: Sugar Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Sugar is a carbohydrate and provides a source of energy. Sugar can take many forms including white, raw or brown sugar, honey or corn syrup. Too much sugar in the diet can contribute to health problems including obesity and tooth decay. People with diabetes can have a small amount of sugar but should limit or avoid foods in which the main ingredient is sugar, such as sweets and cakes. Date: Oct 2011 Title: Teeth and teeth care Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: Take good care of your teeth. Teeth bite and chew food so that it is small enough to be swallowed. Teeth help you to form words so that you can speak properly. Date: Oct 2011 Title: Chewing chewing gum Publisher: Child and Youth Health - CYH (South Australia) Description: Chewing gum has been around for many thousands of years. Ancient Greeks chewed the gum from the mastic tree. Ancient Mayans (in South America) chewed chicle which was made from the sap of the sapodilla tree. Date: Jun 2011 Title: Pit and fissure sealants Publisher: Virtual Medical Centre.com Description: A fissure sealant is a material that essentially covers the grooves of teeth. Protecting deep grooves reduces the chance of tooth decay on the top of your teeth. Date: Mar 2011 Title: Dementia and dental care - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Everyone with dementia needs an individualised preventive approach to dental care that should begin as soon as dementia is diagnosed. Date: Jan 2011 Title: Dental caries Publisher: Virtual Medical Centre.com Description: Information on the symptoms, treatment and diagnosis of dental caries written by professional medical specialists. Date: Dec 2010 Title: Dental caries - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Diet is a key factor in the cause and prevention of dental caries, otherwise known as tooth decay or cavities. Date: Jun 2010 Title: Pit and fissure sealants versus fluoride varnishes for preventing dental decay in children and adolescents Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Dental sealants reduce more tooth decay in the grooves of back teeth in children than fluoride varnish application but the number of studies supporting this evidence is very low. Therefore, more high quality research is needed.Sealants are coatings appl... Date: Feb 2010 Title: Dental health tips for over 50s - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Tooth loss is not an inevitable part of ageing. The majority of people now turn 50 with many, if not all, of their own teeth. Here are some dental health tips for the over-50s. Date: Nov 2009 Title: Fluoride and your dental health - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Most major Australian cities have had fluoridated water for 20 to 30 years. Fluoride encourages the enamel of the tooth to repair itself. Find out how fluoride can help your teeth. Date: Nov 2009 Title: Dental health tips for adults - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Today's dentistry tries to avoid dental fillings by preventing dental disease before it goes too far. Find out dental health tips for adults. Date: Nov 2009 Title: Toothache: self-care - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Toothache is usually caused by dental decay. Sometimes pain and swelling in the jaw can be a sign of a tooth infection or abscess. Find out what products are available for toothache. Date: Sep 2009 Title: Adhesively or non-adhesively bonded amalgam restorations for dental caries Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Tooth decay is a common problem affecting both children and adults. Cavities form in the teeth by the action of acid producing bacteria present in dental plaque. A number of techniques and a variety of materials can be used to restore teeth and one of t... Date: Jul 2009 Title: Antibacterial agents in composite restorations for the prevention of dental caries Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: When tooth decay (caries) has caused a cavity in a tooth a range of materials can be used as fillings. These include resin composite, glass ionomer cement, amalgam and compomers. Secondary caries (tooth decay that may appear near or underneath a filling... Date: Mar 2009 Title: Dental notes - Treatments for severe psoriasis Publisher: Australian Prescriber Description: People taking medication for severe psoriasis require very high levels of oral hygiene and regular professional cleaning to prevent or minimise deterioration of their periodontal structures. Date: Feb 2009 Title: Tooth decay Publisher: Queensland Health Description: This fact sheet discusses tooth decay, or dental caries, which causes holes or structural damage in teeth. It provides information on its causes, and tips on how to reduce the risk of tooth decay for both adults and infants. Date: Jul 2008 Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Tooth Diseases © 2012 National Health Call Cen