
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:56:12 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 04:56:12 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Dementia skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Dementia Follow the links below to find summaries of systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of dementia treatments. Updated May 2011 Printer friendly page Related Health Insite Topics Systematic Reviews of Dementia Medications HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence of the effectiveness of dementia medications. 19 Resources Found Results 1 to 19 displayed. Title: There is currently no high quality evidence to support the use of Huperzine A for the treatment of vascular dementia. Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Vascular dementia (VaD) refers to cognitive impairment associated with cerebrovascular brain injury. It influences quality of life seriously. However, there is no definitive medical or surgical treatment for vascular dementia. Huperzine A is an alkaloid... Date: May 2011 Title: Acupuncture for vascular dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: There is no evidence from randomized controlled trials to determine whether acupuncture provides any effect when treating people with vascular dementia. Acupuncture is used to treat vascular dementia, but because no randomized controlled trials of acupu... Date: Apr 2011 Title: Music therapy for people with dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: The specific focus was to assess whether music therapy can diminish behavioural and cognitive problems or improve social and emotional functioning. Ten studies have been included in this review which state that music therapy is beneficial for treating o... Date: Apr 2010 Title: -Non-pharmacological interventions for wandering of people with dementia in the domestic setting Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: No randomised controlled trials were found that proved or disproved the efficacy of non-pharmacological interventions for the prevention or management of wandering in the domestic setting. Trials of music therapy, bright light therapy, reality orientati... Date: Jun 2009 Title: No evidence that homeopathy is effective in treating dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Dementia is a distressing illness that has major implications for individuals with the disease and their carers. Homeopathy is a popular type of complementary medicine. It is however controversial because although there is some evidence that it is not j... Date: Mar 2009 Title: There is insufficient evidence to suggest that enteral tube feeding is beneficial in patients with advanced dementia. Data are lacking on the adverse effects of this intervention Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Patients with advanced dementia often develop dysphagia (difficulties swallowing). They also experience changes in appetite and apraxia (difficulty co-coordinating movements) and may have difficulties feeding themselves. Two methods of enteral tube feed... Date: Jan 2009 Title: There is insufficient evidence to determine whether light therapy is effective in the management of cognitive, sleep, functional, behavioural or psychiatric disturbances in dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Rest-activity and sleep-wake cycles are controlled by the endogenous circadian rhythm generated by the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Degenerative changes in the SCN appear to be a biological basis for circadian disturbances in people... Date: Dec 2008 Title: Special care units for dementia individuals with behavioural problems Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: There is limited evidence to support the assumption that the care of people with dementia in special care units (SCUs) is superior to care in traditional nursing units. No randomized controlled trials (RCTs) can be found comparing the effect of SCUs aga... Date: Sep 2008 Title: No evidence that folic acid with or without vitamin B12 improves cognitive function of unselected elderly people with or without dementia. Long-term supplementation may benefit cognitive function of healthy older people with high homocysteine levels Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: In the economically developed world, folate deficiency is one of the commonest vitamin deficiencies. Several reports suggest a higher prevalence of various psychiatric disorders in elderly people with folate deficiency. There is interest in whether diet... Date: Jul 2008 Title: Aroma therapy for dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Aroma therapy is the use of pure essential oils from fragrant plants (such as Peppermint, Sweet Marjoram, and Rose) to help relieve health problems and improve the quality of life in general. The healing properties of aroma therapy are claimed to includ... Date: Jul 2008 Title: No evidence from randomised controlled trials for or against the use of Zhiling concoction in the treatment of people with vascular dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Zhiling is a decoction of 15 Chinese herbs which is thought to contribute to dilating cerebral vessels and increasing cerebral blood flow, as well as reducing serum cholesterol. No randomised controlled trials of Zhiling decoction versus placebo were fo... Date: May 2008 Title: No evidence of the efficacy of snoezelen or multi-sensory stimulation programmes for people with dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Snoezelen (or multi-sensory stimulation) has become a commonly used intervention to manage maladaptive behaviours and to promote positive mood of older people with dementia. Originally, two randomised clinical trials were available for this review. Some... Date: Apr 2008 Title: No evidence of benefit from vitamin B6 supplementation on mood or cognition of older people with normal vitamin B6 status or with vitamin B6 deficiency Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Micronutrient status can affect cognitive function at all ages. Vitamin deficiencies could influence memory function and might contribute to age-associated cognitive impairment and dementia. Vitamin B6 is involved in the regulation of mental function an... Date: Apr 2008 Title: There is insufficient evidence to determine the effectiveness of physical activity programs in managing or improving cognition, function, behaviour, depression, and mortality in people with dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Few trials examined these important outcomes. In addition, family caregiver outcomes and use of health care services were not reported in any of the included studies. There is some evidence that physical activity delays the onset of dementia in healthy ... Date: Jan 2008 Title: Driving assessment for maintaining mobility and safety in drivers with dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: The proportion of older people in the world is increasing and consequently the number of older drivers is also on the rise. Older people commonly depend upon private motor vehicles for their transport needs and so assessment of older drivers with cognit... Date: Oct 2007 Title: No evidence of the efficacy of vitamin B12 supplementation for cognitive function Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Vitamin B12 is essential for maintaining normal function of the nervous system, but the relationship between vitamin B12 and cognitive function is not fully understood. From the three studies involving people with dementia or cognitive impairment and lo... Date: Jan 2006 Title: Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) for dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is rarely used for the treatment of dementia but has been studied in a number of randomized controlled trials. Although the available data suggests TENS may be beneficial for some neuropsychological and... Date: Dec 2005 Title: No evidence that treatment or level of control of Type II diabetes influences cognitive function Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Type II diabetes is a chronic disease characterized by high blood glucose levels. It needs to be treated with diet, oral drugs and sometimes insulin to control symptoms and avoid organ damage. Patients may develop features of cognitive decline (e.g. mem... Date: Aug 2005 Title: Inconclusive evidence of the efficacy of reminiscence therapy for dementia Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: RT involves the discussion of past activities, events and experiences, with another person or group of people. This is often assisted by aids such as videos, pictures, archives and life story books. Four randomized controlled trials suitable for analysi... Date: Feb 2005 Results 1 to 19 displayed. Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Dementia © 2012 National Health Call Cen