
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 09:09:40 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aren't there some specific exercises I can do to help my back? Home Overview Why Choose PhysioFit? Orthopedic Manual Therapy Post-Surgical Rehab Vestibular/Balance Rehab Lymphedema Therapy Women's Health Pelvic Floor Therapy Blocked Milk Duct Therapy TMJ PT for Children Sports Rehab The ATM2 Machine The Back2Life Machine Patient Testimonials Physical Therapy Pilates Pilates Gyrotonic /Gyrokinesis TRX Suspension Training Feldenkrais Personal Training Bodywork and Pilates Golf Fitness Program Senior Fitness Program Independent Gym Program Craniosacral Therapy PhysioFitness Massage Therapy Nutritional Counseling Self Pay Physical Therapy Magic Bodies Wellness Testimonials Wellness Profiles Newsletters Store Workshops/Training Contact Us Class Schedule Wellness Forms Patient Forms Injuries & Conditions Ankle Arthritis Upper Back and Neck Mid Back Lower Back Lumbar Spine Anatomy Lower Back Issues Faqs Research Articles Lower Back Surgery Exercises Cumulative Trauma Elbow Fibromyalgia Foot Hamstring Hand Hip Knee Muscle Cramps Osteoporosis Pediatric Shoulder Tendonitis Wrist Sports Activities Work Activities Injury Care Women's Health Issues Pain Care Receive relevant articles Access all content Receive our newsletter User: Password: Sign up | Forgot Password? Aren't there some specific exercises I can do to help my back? Q: I hurt my back at work last week. The doctor who saw me told me to stay active and get back to my usual routine as soon as possible. I'm not really getting any better. Aren't there some specific exercises I can do to help? A: Studies of back pain haven't been able to find an exercise program that works yet. This may be because the studies use the same exercises for everyone. It's likely that a "one- exercise-program-for-all" doesn't address the needs of each person. A new study from Canada showed that patients got better faster when they kept all their movements in the direction that doesn't cause pain. For example if bending forward hurts then their activity and exercises were geared toward the opposite direction (extension). If bending to the left increases painful symptoms, then exercises moving to the right were taught. This approach to back exercises is called the McKenzie Method . Some Physical Therapists have training in the McKenzie Method. The therapist examines the patient to find which movements cause painful symptoms. Then an exercise program is devised to help the patient move in the preferred (painfree) directions. Ask your doctor about trying this program. He or she may know someone in your area with this type of training. You should be able to see if it will help you in a very short amount of time. Audrey Long, BScPT, et al. Does it Matter Which Exercise? In Spine . December 1, 2004. Vol. 29. No. 23. Pp. 2593-2602. Copyright (2010) Physiofit.  All r