Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Eczema Bible by Christina Nevada Sands Eczema Bible Christina Nevada Sands, Author and Counselor Eczema.Net Notice Counseling Medical Reviews Free Online  Book Documentary Contact Infantile and Child Eczema Probiotics during pregnancy and breast-feeding might confer   immunomodulatory protection against atopic disease in the infant. National  Institute of Health There is evidence suggesting that infants lack Δ-6-desaturase of their own and   must acquire it through breast milk. Studies show that breast-milk fed babies   have higher concentrations of GLA than formula-fed babies, while formula-fed   babies have elevated concentrations of LA 1 Seven Areas to Consider 1.  What is the pH of the formula your baby is   drinking?  We need to be alkaline internally.   Regarding infant formulas,   metabolic acidosis is common in babies fed cows' milk-based formula .  Eczema   can be an emergency expulsion of acid toxins through the skin, and this is one   huge reason why so many babies have eczema and then outgrow it when they get off   the formula.  If mother's milk is too acidic, so will the baby be.    See, also, milk allergy letters from parents whose children's eczema cleared up after stopping cow's milk . Soy can be debatable too (it has enzyme inhibitors).  Go with goats milk for infant formula and for kids ( it's alkaline ).  If we are acidic   inside, we get sick.  Midwives make their own formula, and I'll provide links   here soon for that formula. 2.  Go to the probiotics link, learn about good bacteria, how the   lack of it may attribute to eczema in unborn children, and how infants, children   and adults can clear up eczema with the addition of it.  From Dr. Greene's web   site:  "Many children with eczema have flare-ups triggered by what they eat or   drink. In one fascinating study, a group of children who received Lactobacillus   had significant improvement of their eczema within one month." Babies can only handle the Bifidobacterium infantis bacteria   (that's the good bacteria that normally resides in the healthy infants.  That is   why there are probiotics just for infants.  The Life Start product found   in the Eczema Mall under   "Probiotics" is just for infants.  Midwives develop their own infant formulas   and add LifeStart to it.  Baby aren't ready for other bacteria until they are   four years old, because the good bacteria that normally resides in the GI tract   of an adult is not the same as for babies.  If there is an infection, babies   could handle acidophilus for a week, but that's about it, and only under the   supervision of a professional.  Again, babies aren't developed enough for other   bacteria until they are 4 years of age.  It's a very different story with   adults, though. 3.  What is the pH of the products ( skin and   hair ) that you are using on the children.  Many products are alkaline,   destroying the acid mantle ... and that's one reason many babies suffer from   fungal diaper rashes.  We need to protect the acid mantle . 4.  Is the infant eating lots of cereal containing   gluten, or is the child eating a lot of pizza, breads, bagels ... foods   containing gluten ?  Not saying take the pizza away from kids but   am saying try thin crust and maybe substitute tortillas for bread and many food,   dairy and gluten allergies are from an imbalance of bacteria in the GI tract.    See, also, the most common allergenic foods in the Diet web page. 5.  Is the infant or child getting essential fatty   acids like those in flaxseed oil ?  I dip my tortillas in flax oil ( celtic salted), and my son and I both love it ... hard   to get oil down any other way.  Also, crushed flaxseeds mixed with Grade B maple   syrup are a nice tasty treat. 6.  Stress is an issue.  Please see the Stress page for more ... 7.  The feeling of clothing on the skin is   significant, so please see the clothing web page and cut off all the tags (because   they itch and feel terrible). If you can change any one of these, it could make   all of the difference.  The nice thing about it is that since there are so many   things we can do, you don't need to be perfect in anything. NIH   Note : Sebum levels during the first year of   life. (See, also, DHEA web page .) See, also, The Inflammation Fr