
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 08:47:23 GMT
Server: LiteSpeed
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://antiflumedicine.com/xmlrpc.php
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

All about flu   » Your Health All about flu Home | Allergies are not an obstacle to vaccination | Antioxidants | Antiviral drugs | Aspirin-killer: the dose is very important | Bronchitis | Chickenpox | Complications and consequences of flu | Contact | Cough | Defect of thyroid gland | Fervescence at children | Flu pregnant - Schizophrenia Child | Flu preventive maintenance: a diet | Flu symptoms | Flu-like symptoms | Infection of Tomorrow | Influenza virus helps defeat cancer | Migraines treatment | New human influenza viruses | Origin and features of influenza | Otitis media | Parainfluenza | Probiotic yoghurts still useful! | Scarlet fever | Sinusitis | Swine flu | Treatment of influenza | Vaccination against influenza the harm or benefit | Vaccination of influenza | Vaccination of pregnant women Swine flu feared in vain Posted by mary |  Posted in Your Health |  Posted on 23-11-2010-05-2008 0 The researchers found that the “nightmare” swine flu did not in fact represent a danger too and proceeds to softer than the traditional flu, outbreaks of which are recorded in the winter. ? Many months, almost all of humanity anxiously monitored the development of a pandemic virus, H1N1, also called swine flu. Parents in a matter of urgency to vaccinate children, pharmaceutical companies stepped up production to consumers than it was to protect against this dreadful disease. Now, when, according to WHO pandemic flu is over, scientists have found that we are needlessly afraid. Virus H1N1 – is weaker than normal influenza. ? ?Specialists of the Center for Disease Control United States recorded from April 2009 to April 2010 from 43 to 89 million cases of swine flu in the country. Of this number, 274,000 were hospitalized man died 12470. “We found that the virus is more often affects children and young people, but its symptoms and risk of complications were similar to the traditional seasonal flu,” – said the head of the study, Dr. Edward Belongil. ? Moreover, children and young people who fell ill a traditional seasonal flu, not H1N1, a lot more risk being hospitalized, and much more likely to receive serious complications of the disease. Scientists have found that mortality from the traditional flu still significantly higher than that of swine. But what was due to such a panic that gripped many countries in the world? Researchers believe that flu feared because of its high prevalence, especially among children and H1N1 virus more ill. Read More Is the best way to keep healthy? Posted by mary |  Posted in Your Health |  Posted on 23-11-2010-05-2008 0 A vaccine ?save lives and save huge money. Each year, thanks to vaccines can be prevented by 3 million deaths and save 750,000 children from serious diseases. ? ?The American non-governmental charitable Association Research America has estimated what affect the vaccine on the global and national health care. It turned out that their contribution to saving the lives and health of people is huge, it is estimated in millions. But if the routine vaccination among adolescents aged 13 to 17 years in the United States is gaining momentum, then for many diseases vaccination rate is still considerably lower than recommended by the Centre for Disease Control 90%. ? “The children return to school quickly approaching flu season, and now very opportune time to remind all people of the importance of vaccination and disease prevention – said in a statement, Research America. – Vaccination is one of the most proven and effective methods of saving lives and money. Experts have consistently pointed out that preventing disease is a key way to reduce health care costs and improve quality of life. ” ? For example, in America, seven vaccines, which are used in children, can save up to $ 53 billion for the treatment of people born in one particular year, as calculated in Research! America. If the 1950 deaths from smallpox in the United States accounted for 30% and the disease suffered by 50 million annually, already by 1979, this disease is completely wiped out. Around the same time dealt with small-pox and the USSR. ?Each year the vaccine saves three million people worldwide. Read More Swine flu is worse than influenza Posted by mary |  Posted in Your Health |  Posted on 20-11-2010-05-2008 0 As it became known that the swine flu has killed three times more children than usual influenza. The most vulnerable to a new strain of the disease is the youngest people of the land.?? Although the overall death rate from flu is not higher than the seasonal flu (and in some cases, even inferior to them), in regard to children’s health, the situation is quite different. For example, in the UK have died from the flu in 70 children aged fewer than 16 in the first nine months of a pandemic in the past year. That’s more than all the children who die from seasonal influenza in a decade. ?And although in general the figures do not give too high a mortality rate of six children per million, it is still significantly higher mortality rates in two children per million, which is observed in the normal flu. This was reported in a study published in the journal The Lancet. ? These figures may be an argument in favor of all children are vaccinated against the virus H1N1, which is expected to be the dominant strain of flu in the coming winter season. While the British government believes that the vaccine should be required to receive only those children that are at risk. ? British experts have found that one out of every five children who died from the flu (14 out of 70) before the start of the disease were completely healthy. Consequently, the vaccination would be wise to subject all children without exception, without distinguishing them in some specific groups at risk, the authors believe the report. In addition, researchers found that healthy children flu has developed very rapidly, and many of his victims did not even get to the hospital bed until his death. Read More With the cold will be finished forever Posted by mary |  Posted in Your Health |  Posted on 17-11-2010-05-2008 0 From the common cold could be eliminated in the near future thanks to the revolutionary discoveries of scientists. They were able to determine exactly how our immune system reacts to a virus. Experts believe that the pills or powders for cold may be on the market in 10 years. These drugs will not cure the symptoms, like all modern facilities, and the causes of the disease, which will save millions of people from coughing, runny nose, “Broken” and other unpleasant effects of colds and stomach pains caused by Noroviruses. ?Each year million people have become victims of a cold. Although this disease is somehow considered to be not very serious, there is no effective treatment against the common cold does not exist. Traditionally, patients are advised to stay indoors and drink plenty of fluids. Despite the unprecedented medical advances in recent decades, scientists have been unable to come up with medicines for colds and Noroviruses. Employees Medical Research Center at Cambridge University was able to obtain new data about how the human immune system is struggling with these illnesses. Previously it was assumed that antibodies track viruses attacking them outside of cells, not allowing penetrating. But recent studies have shown that antibodies can penetrate into the cells, acting in the same way as viruses. Once inside, the antibody runs a chain of reactions leading to the fact that the protein TRIM21 ejects the virus from the cells. Normally, this protein appears to light very quickly, even before the virus manages to damage the cell. Scientists were able to create drugs that significantly increase the level of TRIM21.Under laboratory conditions; they stopped viruses, such as those that cause colds. This was reported in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. ?Although studies are still at an early stage, scientists believe that new antiviral drugs against the common cold may begin to be tested on humans within two to three years. Read More Next Categories Antibiotics Influenza Your Health Recent Posts Seasonal influenza Swine flu Flu and Pregnancy Tips and Tricks Flu and Pregnancy vaccination and prophylaxis Anti-epidemic measures Pages Allergies are not an obstacle to vaccination Antioxidants Antiviral drugs Aspirin-killer: the dose is very important Bronchitis Chickenpox Complications and consequences of flu Contact Cough Defect of thyroid gland Fervescence at children Flu pregnant – Schizophrenia Child Flu preventive maintenance: a diet Flu symptoms Flu-like symptoms Infection of Tomorrow Influenza virus helps defeat cancer Migraines treatment New human influenza viruses Origin and features of influenza Otitis media Parainfluenza Probiotic yoghurts still useful! Scarlet fever Sinusitis Swine flu Treatment of influenza Vaccination against influenza the harm or benefit Vaccination of influenza Vaccinati