<http://gastricbypassfacts.com/?p=60>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Home Gastric Bypass Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Is Growing Fast Bariatric Surgery Or Weight Loss Surgery? Biliopancreatic Diversion Meeting The Cost Of Bariatric Surgery Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Roux en Y Gastric Bypass Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy Stomach Surgery Vertical Gastrectomy For The Super Obese Sleeve Gastrectomy With Duodenal Switch Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Gastric Bypass – Before and After Pictures The Father of Gastric Bypass Surgery The Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Estimating The Cost Of Gastric Bypass Surgery Insurance Cover For Gastric Bypass Surgery Will Insurers Ease Funding For Surgery? Life After Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Bypass And Your Expectations Vitamins And Minerals After Gastric Bypass Drinking And Gastric Bypass Surgery Do Not Mix Environmental Factors And The Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Surgery Risks Gastric Bypass Risk And Binge Eating Post Operative Gastric Bypass Complications Gastric Bypass Surgery And The Digestive System The Carnie Wilson Gastric Bypass The Renee Williams Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Questions How Does The Sleeve Gastrectomy Work? Gastric Bypass – Solving A Manmade Problem? How Does A Gastric Bypass Promote Weight Loss? A 40% Risk Of Gastric Bypass Complications? Is The Mini Gastric Bypass An Ideal Solution? Lap Band Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Banding The Theory Of Gastric Banding Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery The Adjustable Gastric Band The Newest And Safest Option Laparoscopic Gastric Band Is A Popular Choice Are You Suitable For Gastric Lap Banding? The Cost Of Lap Band Surgery Covering Your Lap Band Surgery Cost Lap Band Insurance Coverage The Risks Of Gastric Lap Band Surgery Problems Of Laparoscopic Gastric Banding The Risks Of Laparoscopic Gastric Band Surgery Lap Band Success Rate Lap Band Surgery To Cure Morbid Obesity Is Lap Banding The Answer For Obese Teenagers? Is Gastric Banding Simply Cosmetic Surgery? Gastric Band Surgery Is Not Always Advisable Losing Weight After Adjustable Gastric Banding Gastric Band Surgery Or Diet And Exercise Obesity Obesity Articles Morbid Obesity Morbid Obesity Is A Growing Problem Morbid Obesity Treatment Morbid Obesity And Getting The Help You Need An Obese Person Simply Eats Too Much Obesity Statistics | Obesity Rates and Graphs Psychological Treatments Improve Success Rates The Connection Between Leptin And Obesity The Failure Of Diet As A Solution For Obesity The First Non-Prescription Obesity Pills Obesity and Depression in America The Role Of Fast Food In Obesity The True Cost of the Obesity Epidemic Obesity Surgery Is Not Just About Losing Weight Obesity Questions Are You Simply Overweight Or Clinically Obese? Why Am I Obese And Just What Causes Obesity? When Does Obesity Become Life-Threatening? Are Genetics Another Way To Explain Obesity? Child Obesity The Dangers Of Childhood Obesity 9 Steps To Tackling Childhood Obesity Child Obesity Statistics Child Obesity Surveys Growing Teen Obesity Means More Surgery The Advisability Of Surgery In Teens Obesity At Young Ages Is Common Pure Fruit Juice To Lower Obesity In Children The Problem Of Child Obesity And School Menus Roux en Y Gastric Bypass During the 1950s an operation, designed solely for the purpose of weight loss, was developed at the University of Minnesota. This operation, known as the Jejunoileal bypass, was designed to bypass much of the small intestine and thus prevent the absorption of calories. Unfortunately, although good weight loss was observed, the majority of patients suffered sever complications and the majority of these early operations had to be reversed. In the 1960s Dr Mason and Dr Ito together developed what has become know as the Roux en Y gastric bypass operation after observing weight loss in patients who were suffering from ulcers and for whom treatment involved the partial removal of the stomach. Today Roux en Y gastric bypass surgery is the most widely performed weight loss operation in the United States and, although other forms of surgery are rapidly gaining in popularity, the fact that so many surgeons and familiar with, and skilled in, Roux en Y gastric bypass surgery means that it remains the top choice for many patients. In 2005 approximately 140,000 Roux en Y gastric bypass surgeries were performed in the United States. The Roux en Y is a form of combination surgery which is designed to both physically reduce the amount of food that can be eaten and then to reduce the number of calories which the body can absorb from food as it passes through the body. In essence gastric bypass surgery starts with the creation of a small pouch at the top of the stomach which restricts the amount of food that can be eaten. Then the gastrointestinal tract is reconstructed to enable food to pass out of both the newly created pouch and the remaining bulk of the stomach. The manner in which reconstruction is affected varies and gives rise to two main forms of Roux en Y gastric bypass surgery. The most commonly used technique is known as a Proximal Roux en Y. In this form of the operation the small bowel is divided about 18 inches below the main stomach outlet and about 30 to 60 inches of small intestine is used to connect the new stomach pouch to the small intestine. In this form of gastric bypass surgery much of the small intestine remains intact and, while this still allows for reasonable absorption of calories, it lessens the risk of nutritional problems resulting from a low uptake of various essential vitamins and minerals. A less common, but still very widely used, form of gastric bypass surgery is the Distal Roux en Y. This is essentially the same as the proximal form of the operation except that connection from the small pouch is moved further down the gastrointestinal tract effectively bypassing a greater length of the small intestine. The benefit here is that the body is not able to absorb as many calories from food as it passes through the intestine which leads to greater, or faster, weight loss. The trade-off however is that there is also a reduction in the adsorption of essential vitamins and minerals which, although manageable post-operatively, can lead to additional complications. Today both forms of Roux en Y gastric bypass surgery can be performed using minimally invasive laparoscopic surgical techniques and, while it still remains a form of major surgery with a number of associated risks and complications, success rates in terms of both weight loss and survival are excellent. The Roux en Y, which has been performed for more than 50 years now and which still remains a firm favorite with many bariatric surgeons, is typically performed in one of two different forms: a proximal bypass, which bypasses a relatively small section of the intestine, and a distal bypass, which bypasses a longer section of intestine. Studies indicate that patients having a proximal bypass typically show an greater weight loss and have greater success in maintaining this weight loss. Previous: How Does The Sleeve Gastrectomy Work? | Gastric Sleeve Surgery Next: Determining Obesity In Children Interesting Posts The Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery One of the first questions that many people ask when they are considering weight loss surgery is "how much does a gastric bypass cost?" While this is... How Does The Gastric Bypass Promote Weight Loss? For people who are heavily overweight, and suffering from severe or morbid obesity, dieting and exercise will often produce a short-term weight loss... Determining Obesity In Children Once we reach the age of 20 our body is essentially fully grown and so we can use the standard measure of BMI (Body Mass Index) to determine whether... Problems With Obesity The True Cost of the Obesity Epidemic Obesity is an epidemic that continues to spread. Even though the Centers for Disease Control, state governments... The Risks Of Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Band Surgery All major surgical operations carry risks and, although laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery carries fewer risks than most other forms of... Causes Of Obesity | Why Am I Obese And Just What Causes Obesity? Most people will tell you that obesity in quite simply a case of eating too much food and not taking enough exercise. But can it really be as simple... Is The Renee Williams Gastric Bypass An Inspiration Or A Warning? At just 29 years of age and weighing 841 pounds Altovise Renee Williams from Austin, Texas set a record on 20 February 2007 when she became the... Bariatric Surgery | Bariatric Weight Loss Surgery Although many people will be familiar with the terms gastric bypass surgery and weight loss surgery, the terms bariatric surgery and bariatric weight... Copyright © Gas