
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Date: Sun, 08 Apr 2012 18:45:06 GMT
X-Pingback: http://www.herbsandcures.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close

Leg Pain | All about herbal & natural cures | Herbs & Cures Blog Home Find Herbs Suggest Cure Blog Contact Us Posts Tagged ‘leg pain’ How to tackle leg cramps during pregnancy Wednesday, February 8th, 2012 Leg cramps are common during pregnancy. They range anywhere from a fleeting muscular pulling all the way to hopping around in agony. It may start  during  second trimester and may get worse as  pregnancy progresses. While these cramps can occur during the day, its clearly noticeable  at night, when they can interfere with  a good night’s sleep. There are many factors which are responsible for this pain. Some of them are discussed below: 1.         Increased exertion on muscles due to changes in weight and center of gravity later in pregnancy. 2.         Expanding uterus puts pressure on the blood vessels that return from legs to heart and the nerves that lead from trunk to legs. 3.         Deficiency in calcium, magnesium and potassium may also be the cause for cramps. 4.         Pressure of the baby’s head on the nerves of the pelvis can fire off the leg muscles. Home remedies for leg cramp: •           Avoid standing or sitting with your legs crossed for long periods of time. •           Stretch your calf muscles regularly during the day and before you go to bed. •           Rotate your ankles and wiggle your toes when you sit, eat dinner, or watch TV. •           Take a walk every day, unless your midwife or doctor has advised you not to exercise. •           Avoid getting too tired. •           Sleep on your left side to improve blood circulation to and from your legs. •           Take a warm bath before bed to relax your muscles or at least soak your feet in warm water for about 10 minutes before you go to bed. •           Shift your sitting posture frequently. Do not sit in the same posture for a long time. •           Increase the intake of fresh vegetables and juices. •           Increase the intake of water. Herbal Treatment: •           Make mixture of one tsp of apple cider vinegar, one tbsp of calcium lactate, and one tsp of honey and add this mixture in half glass of warm water. Have this daily once. It will be beneficial in leg cramps treatment. •           Essential oils, such as lavender oil, rosemary oil and eucalyptus oil massage is also very helpful in cramp treatment. After massaging, cover the affected parts of the body with a towel dipped in hot water. •           Eat 2-3 bananas daily; it increases the potassium in the body, thus give relief to a person suffering from cramps. Having 2 tsp of honey daily is also very beneficial and helpful in preventing leg cramps. •           Increase consumption of foods rich in potassium, calcium, and magnesium in daily diet. Tags: leg pain , pregnancy Posted in Parenting | No Comments » Search for: Pages About Categories Beauty Body care Cancer Cancer Risks Diseases Healthy tips Parenting Tags Acne anti aging beet root juice beeturia behavior blood glucose level blood pressure body shape Breast feed Cancer dental care discipline dry skin elbow pain fast food ginger ginkgo biloba ginseng head ache healthy food insulin largest joint migraine nutrient obesity oral disease overweight Parenting pranayam respiration resturants sprouts stamina stress swine flu teenager teeth care tension vision walking water weight loss wrinkle yoga young look Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 November 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 Recent Posts Causes and herbal cure to neck pain Childhood obesity Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) How to tackle leg cramps during pregnancy Encouraging children to taste new food Recent Comments Brigitte Rowson on Healthy Tips to Gain Weight Maggie Horne on Childhood obesity crisis on SPROUTS-A SUPER NUTRIENT Antony Escober on Stay Healthy with Honey Taylor Lemmo on Teeth Whitening About Us Our Sponsors Contact Us Testimonials Suggest a herbal cure Frequently asked questions Ask the experts Healthy facts Stay Healthy tips Tell a Friend Who we are All rights 