<http://careday.net/footpain/?p=795>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Foot Pain and Back Pain – Do They Relate? | Foot Pain Foot Pain What You Should Know About Diabetes and Foot Pain Subscribe via RSS Home 3 Apr/12 0 Foot Pain and Back Pain – Do They Relate? Well unfortunately for me I have the ability to write about foot pain and back pain.  I say unfortunately because my abilities come from first hand experience not scientific education.  I have worked many long hour shifts, to feel the effects of both foot and back pain.  It took many years of suffering before I really started to notice what was happening and why my pain occurred. Outside of work I would wear expensive sneakers and at work I would wear a commercial grade work shoe something generic.  I had always attributed the pain I felt, was from the long hours and not the shoes. Actually I really had not put that much thought into the matter. Then the combination of the two pains really started to add up. Until this point I had been trying not to complain about discomfort but this was really getting painful and I am not getting any younger or lighter so I had to start thinking. For the foot pain I  bought a more expensive pair of shoes that had more support and a softer sole.  This worked wonders and was all I did for relief for many years.  The back pain had lessened and I was trying to ignore the pain I did feel, hoping it would go away.  We all know how well that worked for me, not very well at all.  Then one day a friend of mine suggested I to try a pair of massaging shoe insoles for my uncomfortable dress shoes.  The massaging insoles are a unique product very few people have ever even heard of these liquid glycerin filled insoles mimic the feel of walking on a thin water balloon.  They have chambers allowing the glycerin to flow from the ball of the foot to the heel of the foot. It was this simple shoe insert that really made me admit there is a direct relationship to foot pain and back pain.  They are a truly amazing product hence the name of the website of which sells these insoles www.amazingfootcare.com My back pain is almost completely gone and I have all faith it has to do with the proper foot position allowed by the massaging insole.  There are hundreds maybe even thousands of insoles on the market but  very few with the same qualities. In conclusion from my experience if you suffer from back pain especially lower back pain it may not be a bad idea to start from the ground up. http://www.footcaredepot.com affordable reliable products Tagged as: Relate Leave a comment Comments (0) Trackbacks (0) ( subscribe to comments on this post ) No comments yet. Leave a comment Cancel reply Name (required) Email (required) Website No trackbacks yet. Ten Tips To Help You Smoothly Recover From Foot Surgery » « Combat Arthritis With a Natural Arthritis Pain Treatment Recent Posts Foot Problems in Diabetics Preventing Back Pain With Stretching Exercises How To Cure Foot Fungus – Once And For All Startling Data About Back Pain That Will Interest You Low Back Pain – What You Need to Know Ten Tips To Help You Smoothly Recover From Foot Surgery Foot Pain and Back Pain – Do They Relate? Categories foot pain Tags About Ankle Arthritis Athletes Avoid Cause Causes Chronic Common Designs Detox Diabetic Effective Exercises Fasciitis Health Learn Lower Massage Natural Nerve Orthotics Painful Plantar Pregnancy Prevent Problems Relief Relieve Remedies Right Running Sciatic Sciatica Shoes Should Simple Symptoms Syndrome Tattoo Tattoos Treat Treatment Treatments Women Archives April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 Copyright © 2012 Foot Pain · Power