Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 15:04:17 GMT
Connection: close

Ulcerative Colitis, UC Login: Password: forgot password Welcome to the Truestar Health Encyclopedia the most comprehensive information database available on health, 
wellness, food, nutrition, vitamins and supplements.  Use of our encyclopedia will enable you to make well-informed, responsible 
decisions for the promotion of your own health and wellness. Enter search items Ulcerative Colitis Truestar Vitamin and Supplement Plans Healthy Digestion Plan Highly Recommended: TrueBASICS Plus for Men   / TrueBASICS Plus For Women TrueBASICS for kids - Optimal Wellness Pack TrueBASICS AO Plus Optimal Wellness Pack With Grapeseed Extract TrueDOPHILUS - Probiotic Supplement –Acidophilus TrueDIGEST - Digestive Enzymes Beneficial: TrueADAPT (Ghanda) - Stress Support – Ashwaganda TrueBUILD - Tissue Building Support - L-glutamine TrueSOOTHE - Digestive Healing and Immunity Support - DGL Skip to: About Product ratings Symptoms Medicines &
therapies Dietary changes Lifestyle changes Vitamins Herbs References Also indexed as: UC Keeping an eye on your diet is essential to caring for colon
inflammation. According to research or other evidence, the following self-care steps may help
treat UC symptoms and reduce your risk for relapse and complications: Don’t forget the fish oil Help reduce inflammation and prevent relapses by taking a daily
supplement delivering 5.4 grams of omega-3 fatty acids Drink aloe juice Improve your symptoms, and your chances for remission, by drinking
100 ml of an Aloe vera herbal extract twice a day Try herbal boswellia Reduce severity and encourage remission by taking 550 mg of
boswellia gum resin three times a day Watch what you eat Forego fast food and other sources of excessive animal fats,
margarine, and sugars to reduce risk Protect yourself from a related disease Reduce your risks of developing UC-related colon cancer by
avoiding alcohol and taking a daily folic acid supplement Check up on nutrition Visit a qualified health professional regularly to detect and
treat nutritional deficiencies caused by colitis These recommendations are not comprehensive and are not intended to replace
the advice of your doctor or pharmacist. Continue reading the full ulcerative colitis article
for more in-depth, fully-referenced information on medicines, vitamins, herbs, and dietary and
lifestyle changes that may be helpful. Skip to: About Product ratings Symptoms Medicines &
therapies Dietary changes Lifestyle changes Vitamins Herbs References About ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the colon, which is relatively
common but remains poorly understood. Diagnosis must be made by a healthcare practitioner—typically a gastroenterologist. Irritable bowel syndrome , a completely
unrelated and less serious condition, was sometimes called mucous colitis in the past. As a
result, the general term “colitis“ is still sometimes used inappropriately to
refer to irritable bowel syndrome. It is critical that people who are diagnosed with
“colitis” find out whether they have irritable bowel syndrome or UC. Product ratings for
ulcerative colitis Science Ratings Nutritional Supplements Herbs Butyrate (enema) Fish oil Folic acid Probiotics Aloe Boswellia DHEA Psyllium Wheat grass (juice) Calendula Chamomile Curcumin Flaxseed Licorice Marshmallow Myrrh St. John’s wort (oil, taken as an enema) Yarrow Reliable
and relatively consistent scientific data showing a substantial health benefit. Contradictory, insufficient, or preliminary studies
suggesting a health benefit or minimal health benefit. For an herb, supported by traditional use but minimal
or no scientific evidence. For a supplement, little scientific support and/or minimal health
benefit. What are the symptoms? UC is characterized by frequent abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea . Other symptoms may include fatigue, weight
loss, decreased appetite, and nausea. Medical options The over-the-counter antidiarrheal drug loperamide (Imodium AD) may be used in ulcerative colitis patients with diarrhea . Anal irritation and loose stools may
sometimes be improved by giving bulk-forming laxative such as methylcellulose (Citrucel) or psyllium (Fiberall, Konsyl, Metamucil, Perdiem). Diphenoxylate with atropine (Lomotil) and loperamide (Imodium AD) are the prescription
drugs most often used to control diarrhea. Cramps may be treated with anticholinergic drugs,
such as L-hyoscyamine (Levsin, Levbid) and
belladonna (Belladonna Tincture). These drugs must be used with extreme caution to prevent
toxic dilation of the colon. Sulfasalazine (Azulfidine) is used in individuals with mild to moderate colitis. Oral corticosteroids , such as prednisone (Deltasone),
may be used during acute flare-ups; however, long-term corticosteroid therapy may be more
harmful than good. Therapy with corticosteroids , such as hydrocortisone enema (Cortenema) is commonly recommended. Mesalamine (Asacol, Pentasa, Rowasa) may be
prescribed in some cases, as an enema, orally, or in suppository form. Certain
immunosuppressive drugs may also be effective, including azathioprine (Imuran), cyclosporine (Sandimmune), and6-mercaptopurine
(Purinethol). Other medications, such as osalazine (Dipentum), balsalazide (Colazol), and
infliximab (Remicade) might benefit some people. Secondary bacterial infections are managed with antibiotics . Other treatment of UC includes avoiding raw fruits and vegetables . Sometimes a
milk-free diet is suggested. Toxic colitis, a grave medical emergency complication of UC, is
treated intensively in emergency departments with antibiotics , such as tobramycin (Nebcin), amikacin (Amikin), and gentamicin (Garamycin), intravenous fluid replacement,
and either corticosteroids or adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Emergency surgical removal
of the colon is sometimes necessary in the most severe cases. Elective surgery may be
recommended for milder cases. Dietary changes that may be helpful Some studies have shown that high sugar intake is associated with an increase in risk for UC. 1 2 Other research
has failed to find any association between UC and sugar intake. 3 4 Until
more is known, persons with inflammatory bowel diseases, including UC, should consider
limiting their intake of sugar. In two studies, people with a high intake of animal fat, cholesterol , or margarine had a significantly increased risk of UC,
compared with people who consumed less of these fats. 5 6 Although these
associations do not prove cause-and-effect, reducing one’s intake of animal fats and
margarine is a means of improving overall health and possibly UC as well. There is preliminary evidence that people who eat fast food at least twice a week have
nearly four times the risk of developing UC than people who do not eat fast
food. 7 More than a half-century ago, several doctors reported that food allergies play an important role in some cases of
UC. 8 9 Since that time, many doctors have observed that avoidance of
allergenic foods will often reduce the severity of UC and can sometimes completely control the
condition. In other old studies, milk has been
reported to trigger UC, 10 and people with UC were found to have antibodies to milk
in their blood, a possible sign of allergy. 11 Today the relationship between food
allergies and UC remains controversial 12 and is not generally accepted by the
conventional medical community. People who wish to explore the possibility that food
sensitivities may trigger their symptoms may wish to consult with an appropriate healthcare
provider. In a preliminary study, 39 patients with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis experienced
significant improvement after receiving 30 grams (about 1 oz) per day of a germinated barley
product for four weeks. 13 Controlled trials are needed to confirm this report. Lifestyle changes that may be helpful For unknown reasons, smokers have a lower risk of UC. The nicotine patch has actually been used to induce
remissions in people with UC, 14 although this treatment has been ineffective in
preventing relapses. 15 On the other hand, Crohn’s disease , which is in many ways similar
to UC, is made worse by smoking. 16 Despite the possible protective effect
of smoking in people with UC, a strong case can be made that risks of smoking outweigh the
benefits; even the use of nicotine patches carries its own side effects and remains
experimental. Vitamins that may be helpful UC is linked to an increased risk of colon
cancer . Studies have found that people with UC who take folic acid supplements or who have high blood levels
of folic acid have a reduced risk of colon cancer compared with people who have UC and do not
take folic acid supplements. 17 18 19 Although these
associations do not prove that folic acid was responsible for the reduction in risk, this
vitamin has been shown to prevent experimentally induced colon cancer in animals. 20 Moreover, low blood folic acid levels have been found in more than half of all people with
UC. 21 People with UC who are taking the drug sulfasalazine , which inhibits the absorption of folic
acid, 22 are at a particularly high risk of developing folic acid deficiency. Folic
acid supplementation may therefore be important for many people with UC. Since taking folic
acid may mask a vitamin B12 deficiency,
however, people with UC who wish to take folic acid over the long term should have their
vitamin B12 status assessed by a physician. Alcohol consumption is known to promote folic acid deficiency and has also been linked to
an increased risk of colon cancer. 23 People with UC should, therefore, keep alcohol
intake to a minimum. Preliminary 24 and double-blind trials 25 26 27 have found that fish oil supplementation
reduces inflammation, decreases the need for anti-inflammatory drugs, and promotes normal
weight gain in people with UC. However, fish oil has not always been effective in clinical
trials for UC. 28 Amounts used in successful clinical trials provided 3.2 grams of
EPA and 2.2 grams of DHA per day—the two
important fatty acids found in fish oil. A fatty acid called butyrate, which is synthesized by intestinal bacteria, serves as fuel
for the cells that line the small intestine. Administration of butyrate by enema has produced
marked improvement in people with UC in most, 29 30 31 32 33 34 but not all, 35 preliminary trials. Butyrate
taken by mouth is not likely to be beneficial, as sufficient quantities do not reach the colon
by this route. Although butyrate enemas are not widely available, they can be obtained by
prescription through a compounding pharmacy, which prepares customized prescription
medications to meet individual patient needs. In a preliminary trial, 6 of 13 people with ulcerative colitis went into remission after
taking 200 mg per day of DHEA for eight
weeks. 36 This large amount of DHEA has the potential to cause adverse side effects
and should only be used under the supervision of a doctor. In preliminary 37 and double-blind 38 trials, a probiotic supplement (in this case, a
non-disease-causing strain of Escherichia coli ) was effective at maintaining
remission in people with UC. In a double-blind trial, a combination probiotic supplement
containing Lactobacilli, Bifidobacteria, and a beneficial strain of Streptococcus has been
shown to prevent pouchitis, a common complication of surgery for UC. 39 People with
chronic relapsing pouchitis received either 3 grams per day of the supplement or placebo for
nine months. Eighty-five percent of those who took the supplement had no further episodes of
pouchitis during the nine-month trial, whereas 100% of those receiving placebo had relapses
within four months. Preliminary evidence suggests that combination probiotic supplements may
be effective at preventing UC relapses as well. 40 In a preliminary trial, people with UC significantly improved on a sugar-free, low-allergen diet with additional nutritional
supplementation that included a multivitamin-mineral supplement (2–6 tablets per day); a fish oil supplement (400 mg per day); borage oil (400 mg per day); flaxseed oil (400 mg per day); and a probiotic formula
containing Lactobacillus acidophilus and other species of beneficial bacteria. 41 Some participants received slight
variations of this regimen. Since so many different supplements were given and since the trial
was not controlled, it is not possible to say which, if any, of the nutrients was responsible
for the improvement observed by the researchers. Are there any side effects or interactions? Refer to the individual supplement for information about any side effects or interactions. Herbs that may be helpful A small clinical study found that people with UC taking 550 mg of boswellia gum resin three times daily for six weeks
had similar improvement in symptoms and the severity of their disease as people with UC taking
the drug sulfasalazine . 42 Overall,
82% of patients receiving boswellia, along with 75% of patients taking sulfasalazine, went
into remission. In a preliminary trial, people with UC remained in remission just as long when they took 20
grams of ground psyllium seeds twice daily
with water as when they took the drug mesalamine. 43 The combination of the two was
slightly more effective than either alone. Controlled trials are now needed to confirm a
therapeutic effect of psyllium for UC. In a controlled trial, supplementation with wheat grass juice for one month resulted in clinical improvement in 78% of people with
ulcerative colitis, compared with 30% of those receiving a placebo. 44 The amount of
wheat grass used was 20 ml per day initially; this was increased by 20 ml per day to a maximum
of 100 ml per day (approximately 3.5 ounces). German doctors practicing herbal medicine often recommend chamomile for people with colitis. 45 A cup
of strong tea drunk three times per day is standard, along with enemas using the tea when it
reaches body temperature. Curcumin is a compound in turmeric (Curcuma longa) that has been reported to have anti-inflammatory
activity. In a preliminary trial, five of five people with chronic ulcerative proctitis (a
condition similar to ulcerative colitis) had an improvement in their disease after
supplementing with curcumin. The amount of curcumin used was 550 mg twice a day for one month,
followed by 550 mg three times a day for one month. 46 Enemas of oil of St. John’s wort may
also be beneficial. 47 Consult with a doctor before using St. John’s wort oil
enemas. Aloe vera juice has
anti-inflammatory activity and been used by some doctors for people with UC. In a double-blind
study of people with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis, supplementation with aloe
resulted in a complete remission or an improvement in symptoms in 47% of cases, compared with
14% of those given a placebo (a statistically significant difference). 48 No
significant side effects were seen. The amount of aloe used was 100 ml (approximately 3.5
ounces) twice a day for four weeks. Other traditional anti-inflammatory and soothing herbs,
including calendula , flaxseed , licorice , marshmallow , myrrh , and yarrow . Many of these herbs are most effective,
according to clinical experience, if taken internally as well as in enema form. 49 Enemas should be avoided during acute flare-ups but are useful for mild and chronic
inflammation. It is best to consult with a doctor experienced with botanical medicine to learn
more about herbal enemas before using them. More research needs to be done to determine the
effectiveness of these herbs. Are there any side effects or interactions? Refer to the individual herb for information about any side effects or interactions. References: 1. Reif S, Klein I, Lubin F, et al. Pre-illness dietary factors in
inflammatory bowel disease. Gut 1997;40:754–60. 2. Tragnone A, Valpiani D, Miglio F, et al. Dietary habits as risk
factors for inflammatory bowel disease. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol 1995;7:47–51. 3. Thornton JR, Emmett PM, Heaton KW. Diet and ulcerative colitis. BMJ 1980;1:293–4. 4. Jarmerot G, Jammark I, Nilsson K. Consumption of refined sugar by
patients with Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis or irritable bowel syndrome. Scand
J Gastroenterol 1983;18:999–1002. 5. Reif S, Klein I, Lubin F, et al. Pre-illness dietary factors in
inflammatory bowel disease. Gut 1997;40:754–60. 6. Kono S. Dietary and other risk factors of ulcerative colitis. A
case-control study in Japan. J Clin Gastroenterol 1994;19:166–71. 7. Persson PG, Ahlbom A, Hellers G. Diet and inflammatory bowel disease:
a case-control study. Epidemiology 1992;3:47–52. 8. Rowe AH. Chronic ulcerative colitis—allergy in its etiology. Ann Intern Med 1942;17:83–100. 9. Andresen AFR. Ulcerative colitis—an allergic phenomenon. Am
J Dig Dis 1942;9:91–8. 10. Truelove SC. Ulcerative colitis provoked by milk. Brit Med J 1961;5220:154–60. 11. Taylor KB, Truelove SC. Circulating antibodies to milk proteins in
ulcerative colitis. Brit Med J 1961;5257:924–9. 12. Candy S, Borok G, Wright JP, et al. The value of an elimination diet
in the management of patients with ulcerative colitis. S Afr Med J 1995;85:1176–9. 13. Kanauchi O, Iwanaga T, Mitsuyama K. Germinated barley foodstuff
feeding: a novel neutraceutical therapeutic strategy for ulcerative colitis. Digestion 2001;63 Suppl:60–7. 14. Pullan RD, Rhodes J, Ganesh S, et al. Transdermal nicotine for active
ulcerative colitis. N Engl J Med 1994;330:811–5. 15. Thomas GA, Rhodes J, Mani V, et al. Transdermal nicotine as
maintenance therapy for ulcerative colitis. N Engl J Med 1995;332:988–92. 16. Rhodes J, Thomas GA. Smoking: good or bad for inflammatory bowel
disease? Gastroenterol 1994;106:907–10 [editorial]. 17. Lashner BA, Heidnreich PA, Su GL, et al. Effect of folate
supplementation on the incidence of dysplasia and cancer in chronic ulcerative colitis. Gastroenterol 1989;97:255–9. 18. Lashner BA. Red blood cell folate is associated with the development
of dysplasia and cancer in ulcerative colitis. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol 1993;119:549–54. 19. Lashner BA, Provencher KS, Seidner DL, et al. The effect of folic
acid supplementation on the risk for cancer or dysplasia in ulcerative colitis. Gastroenterol 1997;112:29–32. 20. Kim YI, Salomon RN, Graeme-Cooke F, et al. Dietary folate protects
against the development of macroscopic colonic neoplasia in a dose responsive manner in rats. Gut 1996;39:732–40. 21. Elsbord L, Larsen L. Folate deficiency in chronic inflammatory bowel
disease. Scand J Gastroenterol 1979;14:1019–24. 22. Halsted CH, Gandhi G, Tamura T. Sulfasalazine inhibits the absorption
of folates in ulcerative colitis. N Engl J Med 1981;317:1513–7. 23. Kaltsky AL, Armstrong MA, Friedman GD, Hiatt RA. The relations of
alcoholic beverage use to colon and rectal cancer. Am J Epidemiol 1988;128:1007–15. 24. Salomon P, Kornbluth AA, Janowitz HD. Treatment of ulcerative colitis
with fish oil n -- 3-omega-fatty acid: an open trial. J Clin Gastroenterol 1990;12:157–61. 25. Stenson WF, Cort D, Rodgers J, et al. Dietary supplementation with
fish oil in ulcerative colitis. Ann Intern Med 1992;116:609–14. 26. Hawthorne AB, Daneshmend TK, Hawkey CJ, et al. Treatment of
ulcerative colitis with fish oil supplementation: a prospective 12 month randomised controlled
trial. Gut 1992;33:922–8. 27. Aslan A, Triadafilopoulos G. Fish oil fatty acid supplementation in
active ulcerative colitis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Am J
Gastroenterol 1992;87:432–7. 28. Dichi I, Frenhane P, Dichi JB, et al. Comparison of omega-3 fatty
acids and sulfasalazine in ulcerative colitis. Nutrition 2000;16:87–90. 29. Scheppach W, Sommer H, Kirchner T, et al. Effect of butyrate enemas
on the colonic mucosa in distal ulcerative colitis. Gastroenterol 1992;103:51–6. 30. Scheppach W. Treatment of distal ulcerative colitis with short-chain
fatty acid enemas. A placebo-controlled trial. German-Austrian SCFA Study Group. Dig Dis
Sci 1996;41:2254–9. 31. Vernia P, Marcheggiano A, Caprilli R, et al. Short-chain fatty acid
topical treatment in distal ulcerative colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 1995;9:309–13. 32. Steinhart AH, Brzezinski A, Baker JP. Treatment of refractory
ulcerative proctosigmoiditis with butyrate enemas. Am J Gastroenterol 1994;89:179–83. 33. Patz J, Jacobsohn WZ, Gottschalk-Sabag S, et al. Treatment of
refractory distal ulcerative colitis with short chain fatty acid enemas. Am J
Gastroenterol 1996;91:731–4. 34. Breuer RI, Buto SK, Christ ML, et al. Rectal irrigation with
short-chain fatty acids for distal ulcerative colitis. Preliminary report. Dig Dis
Sci 1991;36:185–7. 35. Steinhart AH, Hiruki T, Brzezinski A, Baker JP. Treatment of
left-sided ulcerative colitis with butyrate enemas: a controlled trial. Aliment Pharmacol
Ther 1996;10:729–36. 36. Andus T, Klebl F, Rogler G, et al. Patients with refractory Crohn's
disease or ulcerative colitis respond to dehydroepiandrosterone: a pilot study. Aliment
Pharmacol Ther 2003;17:409–14. 37. Rembacken BJ, Snelling AM, Hawkey PM, et al. Non-pathogenic Escherichia coli versus mesalazine for the treatment of ulcerative colitis: a randomised
trial. Lancet 1999;354:635–9. 38. Kruis W, Schutz E, Fric P, et al. Double-blind comparison of an oral Escherichia coli preparation and mesalazine in maintaining remission of ulcerative
colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 1997;11:853–8. 39. Gionchetti P, Rizzello F, Venturi A, et al. Oral bacteriotherapy as
maintenance treatment in patients with chronic pouchitis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled
trial. Gastroenterology 2000;119:305–9. 40. Venturi A, Gionchetti P, Rizzello F, et al. Impact on the composition
of the faecal flora by a new probiotic preparation: preliminary data on maintenance treatment
of patients with ulcerative colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 1999;13:1103–8. 41. Edman JS, Williams WH, Atkins RC. Nutritional therapies for
ulcerative colitis: literature review, chart review study, and future research. Altern
Ther Health Med 2000;6:55–63. 42. Gupta I, Parihar A, Malhotra P, et al. Effects of Boswellia serrata
gum resin in patients with ulcerative colitis. Eur J Med Res 1997;2:37–43. 43. Fernandez-Banares F, Hinojosa J, Sanchez-Lombrana JL, et al.
Randomized clinical trial of Plantago ovata seeds (dietary fiber) as compared with
mesalamine in maintaining remission in ulcerative colitis. Am J Gastroenterol 1999;94:427–33. 44. Ben-Arye E, Goldin E, Wengrower D, et al. Wheat grass juice in the
treatment of active distal ulcerative colitis: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled
trial. Scand J Gastroenterol 2002;37:444–9. 45. Weiss RF. Herbal Medicine. Beaconsfield, UK: Beaconsfield
Publishers Ltd, 1989, 26. 46. Holt PR, Katz S, Kirshoff R. Curcumin therapy in inflammatory bowel
disease: a pilot study. Dig Dis Sci 2005;50:2191–3. 47. Weiss RF. Herbal Medicine. Beaconsfield, UK: Beaconsfield
Publishers Ltd, 1989, 114–5. 48. Langmead L, Feakins RM, Goldthorpe S, et al. Randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral aloe vera gel for active ulcerative colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2004;19:739–47. 49. Weiss RF. Herbal Medicine. Beaconsfield, UK: Beaconsfield
Publishers Ltd, 1989, 114–5. All Indexes Health Issues Men's Health Women's Health Health Centers Cold, Flu, Sinus, and Allergy Diabetes Digestive System Pain and Arthritis Sports Nutrition Safetychecker by Drug by Herbal Remedy by Supplement Homeopathy by Remedy Herbal Remedies by Botanical Name Integrative Options Foodnotes Food Guide by Food Group Vitamin Guide Become a Sales Superstar Learn how to earn more by selling more and closing with higher ratios Copyright © 2012 Truestar Health & Healthnotes, Inc.  All rights reserved.
	www.truestarhealth.com The information presented in Truestar Healthnotes is for informational
	purposes only. It is based on scientific studies (human, animal, or in vitro ),
	clinical experience, or traditional usage as cited in each article. The results reported may
	not necessarily occur in all individuals. For many of the conditions discussed, treatment with
	prescription or over-the-counter medication is also available. Consult your doctor,
	practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any supplements or
	before making any changes in prescribed medications. Information expires September 2013. HOME | ABOUT US | OUR TEAM | PRODUCTS | RETAIL LOCATOR | TRUE PARTNERS | CONTACT US Copyright Â© 2012 by Truestar Health inc. All 