<85% completion in 2 of the 3 studies.” Number of patients in combined studies 352 131 158 In-hospital deaths 0 0 0 Post-operative deaths 20.3 1 death as a result of bariatric surgery (9 months after surgery) due to severe Clostridium difficile colitis, severe diarrhea, an extended period of profound hypovolemia, and multiple organ failure. 3 (all after bilio-pancreatic diversion) due to protein malnutrition, pulmonary edema anda cute necrotizing pancreatitis. Major complications and/or reoperations 8% of patients (28/352) due to problems including: Band slippage (most frequently reported comp lication – 3% of patients) Chol- ecystitis Gastric dilation Hiatal hernia Intragastric band migration Psychologic intolerance of band Tubing crack Shock Pulmonary embolism Severe malnutrition Immediate postoperative bleeding Gastrointestinal obstruction (percentage of patients not reported) 13.3% (21/158) of all patients reported for all complications: Vertical banded gastroplasty (VBG) Gastric ulceration (2 patients) Enlarged pouch (2 patients) Staple line disruption (2 patients) Biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) Protein malnutrition (11 patients Banded bypass (no longer performed) Gastro-gastric fistula (caused 2 revisions) Chol-ecystectomy (1 patient) Recurrent marginal ulcer requiring antacids (1 patient) Minor complications and/or side-effects Iron deficiency (2.2% of patients) Mild hair loss (1.4% of patients) Protein-calorie malnutrition and micronutrient deficiency (most frequently reported complication; percentage not specified) Impact of surgery on growth or development results not tracked/reported One study reported patients' heights before and six years after surgery and concluded that there was no evidence of growth retardation after surgery. However, study’s authors commented that they could not determine whether the patients achieved their expected growth based on the data available. results not tracked/reported A separate study from 2008 included 10 teenage gastric sleeve surgery patients.  No in-hospital deaths occurred and 2 of the patients (20%) experienced complications (one intraperitoneal abscess and one polyneuritis), both of which were resolved with medical treatment without additional problems. 28 For additional research on risks and complications, see our Bariatric Surgery Complications page. Back
  to top of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery for Teen Obesity Critics of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery When over 500 pediatricians and family doctors across the U.S. responded to a survey asking whether they would ever recommend bariatric surgery for teenagers, 52% said yes.  But that leaves 48% who said they would never recommend it. 29 Disapproving physicians and other critics of teen weight loss surgery present 7 valid concerns: For additional insight into teen bariatric surgery concerns, see these articles: From Reuters From ABC News Younger patients may not be disciplined enough regarding appropriate bariatric diet , weight loss surgery exercise , weight loss surgery support group participation and physician follow-ups for successful long-term outcomes. For example, one study of 71 adolescent Roux-en-Y gastric bypass patients found that clinical follow-up decreased one and two years after surgery (from 94% follow-up 6 months post-op to 69% two years out). 33 Adolescent patients may not have the supportive family dynamic that is essential towards making the pre- and post-surgery requirements achievable. Younger patients do not have the ability to properly evaluate the risks versus the rewards of surgery. Teen weight loss surgery’s availability may lead obese teens to believe that surgery is the most viable and accessible option, when losing weight by diet and exercise is safer and more natural. Weight loss surgery could lead to malnourishment, especially after malabsorptive procedures like gastric bypass surgery, which could affect the physical development of a growing teen. Bariatric surgery is "associated with bone loss in adolescents", although "the predicted bone density [2 years after bariatric surgery was shown to be] appropriate for age" according to one study of 61 adolescent Roux-en-Y gastric bypass patients.  The researchers call for further research to determine whether adolescent bone mass following weight loss surgery "continues to change or stabilizes." 33 For those having lap band surgery, there are concerns about its ability to remain in place and not erode over a long period of time. The last point is very similar to a serious lap band concern adults must consider when choosing the bariatric procedure that’s right for them. This will be discussed further in the Procedures section below. Points one through five can be addressed by working with an ethical and experienced surgical team, as they will not approve the patient for surgery unless there is a very high likelihood that these problems will not occur.  Their strict adolescent screening requirements are likely a major reason why teen surgical outcomes compare so favorably to adult outcomes. Back
  to top of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery for Teen Obesity Adolescent Bariatric Surgery: 6 Requirements to Get Approved According to recent adolescent bariatric surgery best practices update... 30 “Key considerations in patient safety include carefully designed criteria for patient selection, multidisciplinary evaluation, choice of appropriate procedure, thorough screening and management of comorbidities, optimization of long-term compliance, and age-appropriate fully informed consent.” To meet these best practice guidelines and be approved for surgery, teenagers must meet six surgeon-enforced requirements: Have a body mass index that meets the NIH consensus criteria for weight loss surgery in adults (BMI above 40 or BMI between 35 and 40 with a serious co-morbidity) 31 Both patient and parent/guardian must provide consent Psychological evaluation of patients and parent/guardian to ensure mental aptitude for pre- and post-surgery requirements, including: Supportive family environment Willingness/ability to commit to strict diet, exercise and weight loss support group and physician follow-up requirements for the rest of their life (see our Bariatric Treatment and Life After Weight Loss Surgery pages for more about patient requirements before and after surgery) A meta-analysis of several teen weight loss surgery studies compared the average age of the patients (16.7) to the CDC growth charts and pointed out that by this age, an average boy has completed 98.4% of his growth to age 20 while the average girl has completed 99.6%. To determine where your (or your child’s) age falls, click here to check the CDC growth charts . 32 Patient must have reached physical and skeletal maturity.  Common methods for determining this include: Evaluating the adolescent’s physical maturity to the Tanner Scale.  The adolescent patient should have reached Tanner Scale IV or V prior to being approved for surgery. Doctors can determine whether adolescent growth plates have been fully fused via x-ray. The average teenage girl reaches her adult height at 13 or older while the average teenage boy reaches it at age 15 or older. Teenage girls must be willing to avoid pregnancy for at least one year, preferably two (see Pregnancy after Weight Loss Surgery for more information) Prospective patient must have participated in a clinically supervised weight loss program with unsuccessful results for at least 6 months. Good bariatric surgical teams have the knowledge and resources available to help determine whether each of the above criteria is met (more on finding the right bariatric surgeon for teens further down the page). Back
  to top of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery for Teen Obesity Which types of bariatric surgery are best for teens? According to the Best Practice Updates for Pediatric/Adolescent Weight Loss Surgery, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery and adjustable gastric banding (lap band surgery) are the only two appropriate considerations at this time. 8 The biliopancreatic diversion and duodenal switch surgeries should not be considered by teens due to their resulting high levels of malabsorption and their high risks compared to gastric bypass and lap band surgery. Gastric sleeve surgery, while becoming a more and more viable option for adults, still does not have the appropriate long-term research for patients of any age.  This would seem to exclude it from recommended use in teens. See our Gastric Sleeve Surgery page for more information about the procedure, benefits and risks and talk with your surgeon if you feel it should be considered. Similarly, other newer weight loss surgery procedures lack sufficient research. The rest of this section compares the two most viable teen weight loss surgery options: Teen gastric bypass surgery Teen lap band surgery Teen Gastric Bypass Surgery Roux en Y gastric bypass surgery is considered the current “gold standard” treatment for both adults and adolescents as long as the patient commits to appropriate long-term follow-up care. Positives of Teen Gastric Bypass Surgery vs Teen Lap Band Surgery Greater and more consistent average weight loss in adults (60% to 70% of excess weight vs. 50% with the band) (existing research suggests that fully developed adolescents should expect the same weight loss as adults 19 ). Resolution of obesity-related health problems has been shown to be higher in adults, although insufficient research exists for teens. Dumping syndrome , while a very unpleasant and frequently reported side effect, has been said by many patients to help them keep their long-term diet and weight loss efforts on track Negatives of Teen Gastric Bypass Surgery vs Teen Lap Band Surgery Higher rate of more serious complications Dumping syndrome Malabsorptive component carries with it a higher risk of malnutrition Teen Lap Band Surgery Adjustable gastric banding is not approved for use in teens by the Food and Drug Administration. Allergan, maker of the LAP-BAND System, is pushing to get the system approved for teens, but it is likely that final approval determination would not come before the results of the Teen-LABS study are published. However, like any device, adjustable gastric banding can be used if a patient’s doctor deems it appropriate. Positives of Teen Lap Band Surgery vs Teen Gastric Bypass Surgery The procedure is reversible Adult research suggests that the frequency of serious complications are much lower There is a lower risk of malnutrition since the anatomy of the digestive system is not changed Negatives of Teen Lap Band Surgery vs Teen Gastric Bypass Surgery The ability of the band to “hold up” over a long period of time, an obvious requirement for its use in teens, is unknown. It is likely to have similar downsides as lap band surgery in adults, including: A wide range of potential weight loss (in adults, average excess weight loss is around 50% but ranges from below 25% to over 85%) A much higher rate of minor complications and reoperations Assuming no complications, patients must visit the doctor up to 10 times more often for band adjustments. For more information on each procedure, see the following pages: Gastric bypass surgery Lap band surgery Gastric bypass vs lap band surgery Back
  to top of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery for Teen Obesity Directory of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Clinics and Hospitals If possible, working with a weight loss surgery clinic or hospital that specializes in adolescent bariatric surgery is ideal.  They are experienced in both adult and teen surgery and have direct access to pediatric doctors, psychologists, nutritionists and nurses. This cross functional team allows teen patients to receive the surgical experience required for a successful procedure along with pediatric experience for pre- and post-surgery treatment. Share This with Your Pediatrician AAP News, the official news-magazine of the American Academy of Pediatrics released this report specifically for pediatricians attempting to advise families who are considering adolescent bariatric surgery. Prior to having a conversation with your family’s pediatrician, send them the report along with a link to this page to be sure they have ample time to research the issue before meeting with you. However, we do not recommend moving forward with any surgeon or team (including the ones listed below) without proper evaluation. See our Finding the Right Bariatric Doctors page to learn how. If you find that the below hospitals and clinics are too far from home or are not a good fit for your family, consult with a “Center of Excellence” bariatric surgeon in your area . Click one of the following to jump down to your state (if your state is not listed, it means that we are not aware of a specialized center there. Check nearby states or discuss your options with your local centers of excellence ): Alabama California Colorado Delaware Florida Maryland New York Ohio Pennsylvania Rhode Island Texas Alabama Birmingham Children’s Health System 205.939.910 California Palo Alto Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford 650.736.2114 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory Colorado Denver Rose Medical Center 800.935.3312 Delaware Wilmington Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children 302.651.4000 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory Florida Jacksonville Nemours Children’s Clinic 904.697.3600 Maryland Baltimore Mt. Washington Pediatric Hospital in conjunction with John Hopkins Bayview Medical Center 410.578.5343 -or- 410.578.5342 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory New York New York City Pediatric Obesity Program at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of NewYork-Presbyterian (CHONY) 212.305.8862 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory Ohio Cincinnati Cincinnati Children’s Hospital 800.344.2462 Columbus Nationwide Childrens Hospital 614.722.2000 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory Pennsylvania Pittsburgh Magee-Womens Hospital of UPMC 412.641.3632 Rhode Island Providence Hasbro Children’s Hospital 401.444.5980 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory Texas Houston Texas Children’s Hospital 832.822.3135 Back to top of Section : Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Directory Back
   to toP of Page :  Adolescent Bariatric Surgery for Teen Obesity Your Experiences with Teen Obesity & Adolescent Bariatric Surgery What have been the effects of teen obesity on your life? Considering teen weight loss surgery for yourself or your child?  Or did you already have the procedure? Please share your experiences, thoughts or advice. Enter Your Title Share Your Story! [ ? ] Close Help Entering your story is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you enter it here. You can wrap a word in square brackets to make it appear bold. For example [my story] would show as my story on the Web page containing your story. TIP: Since most people scan Web pages, include your best thoughts in your first paragraph. Upload 1-4 Pictures or Graphics (optional) [ ? ] Close Help Do you have some pictures or graphics to add? Great! Click the button and find the first one on your computer. Select it and click on the button to choose it. Then click on the link if you want to upload up to 3 more images. Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Click here to upload more images (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Author Information (optional) To receive credit as the author, enter your information below. Your Name (first or full name) Your Location (ex. City, State, Country) Submit Your Contribution Check box to agree to these submission guidelines . (You can preview and edit on the next page) Click here to see the rest of the form and complete your submission. Back
  to top of Adolescent Bariatric Surgery for Teen Obesity New! Comments Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below. For additional research, search for your topic... Also see... Financing Bariatric Surgery: 7 Options You Should Consider Teenage Obesity Statistics & Child Obesity Statistics Causes of Obesity Back
to Bariatric Treatment Back
to Bariatric Surgery Source Home Page from Adolescent Bariatric Surgery & Teen Obesity References Nancy Tkacz Browne, RN, MS, CPNP, CBN, et al. Just Kids: A   Multidisciplinary Look at Treating the Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric   Band Adolescent Patient. Bariatric Times. Jan 2008. Available at:   http://bariatrictimes.com/2008/01/14/just-kids-a-multidisciplinary-look-at-treating-the-laparoscopic-adjustable-gastric-band-adolescent-patient/ Schwimmer JB, Deutsch R, Kahen T, et al. Prevalence of fatty   liver in children and adolescents. Pediatrics. 2006;118(4):1388–1393 Jonathan Sorof; Stephen Daniels. Obesity Hypertension in Children: A Problem of Epidemic Proportions. Hypertension. 2002;40:441. Weiss R, Dziura J, Burgert TS, et al. Obesity and the metabolic   syndrome in children and adolescents. N Engl J Med.   2004;350(23):2362–2374. Wills, Mary PT, DHS, OCS. Orthopedic Complications of Childhood   Obesity. Pediatric Physical Therapy: Winter 2004 - Volume 16 - Issue 4 -   pp 230-235 Riva Tauman, David Gozal. Obesity and obstructive sleep apnea in   children. Pediatric Respiratory Journal. Volume 7, Issue 4, Pages   247-259 (December 2006). Hotu, S., Carter, B., Watson, P., Cutfield, W. and Cundy, T.   (2004), Increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes in adolescents. Journal   of Paediatrics and Child Health, 40: 201–204. doi:   10.1111/j.1440-1754.2004.00337.x Deckelbaum RJ and Williams CL (2001): Childhood Obesity: The Health Issue. Obesity Research 9:S239-S243 Sarah E. Anderson, PhD, et al. Adolescent Obesity and Risk for   Subsequent Major Depressive Disorder and Anxiety Disorder: Prospective   Evidence Psychosomatic Medicine 69:740-747 (2007) L J Griffiths et al. Obesity and bullying: different effects for   boys and girls. Arch Dis Child 2006;91:121-125   doi:10.1136/adc.2005.072314 Michelle J. Pearce, et al. Adolescent Obesity, Overt and   Relational Peer Victimization, and Romantic Relationships. Obesity   Research (2002) 10, 386–393; doi: 10.1038/oby.2002.53. Neumark-Sztainer D, Falkner N, Story M, Perry C, Hannan PJ,   Mulert S. Weight-teasing among adolescents: correlations with weight   status and disordered eating behaviors. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord.   2002 Jan;26(1):123-31. Richard S. Strauss. Childhood Obesity and Self-Esteem. PEDIATRICS Vol. 105 No. 1 January 2000, p. e15. Baker JL, Olsen LW, Sorensen TI. Childhood body-mass index and   the risk of coronary heart disease in adulthood. N Engl J Med.   2007;357(23):2329–2337. Stephen R. Daniels, et al. American Heart Association Childhood   Obesity Research Summit. Executive Summary. 2009. Available at:   http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/circulationaha;119/15/2114 Engeland A, Bjorge T, Tverdal A, Sogaard AJ. Obesity in   adolescence and adulthood and the risk of adult mortality. Epidemiology.   2004;15(1):79–85. Epstein LH, Valoski A, Wing RR, McCurley J. Ten-year outcomes of   behavioral family-based treatment for childhood obesity. University of   Pittsburgh School of Medicine. Health Psychol. 1994 Sep;13(5):373-83. Wilson S. Tsai; Thomas H. Inge; Randall S. Burd Bariatric   Surgery in Adolescents: Recent National Trends in Use and In-Hospital   Outcome Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2007;161(3):217-221. Jonathan R. Treadwell, PhD; Fang Sun, MD, PhD; Karen Schoelles,   MD, SM. Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Bariatric Surgery for   Pediatric Obesity. Annals of Surgery. 2008;248(5):763-776.   http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/582929 Thomas H. Inge, MD, PhD, et al. Reversal of Type 2 Diabetes   Mellitus and Improvements in Cardiovascular Risk Factors After Surgical   Weight Loss in Adolescents PEDIATRICS Vol. 123 No. 1 January 2009, pp.   214-222 (doi:10.1542/peds.2008-0522) Holly M Ippisch, Todd M Jenkins, Thomas H Inge, and Thomas R   Kimball. Do Acute Improvements in LV Mass and Diastolic Function   Following Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Persist at Two Years Post-op?    American Heart Association. Circulation 120: S474-b. Ai-Xuan Holterman, et al. A prospective trial for laparoscopic   adjustable gastric banding in morbidly obese adolescents: an interim   report of weight loss, metabolic and quality of life outcomes. Journal   of pediatric surgery 1 January 2010 (volume 45 issue 1 Pages 74-79 DOI:   10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2009.10.013) Loux TJ, et al. Health-related quality of life before and after   bariatric surgery in adolescents. J Pediatr Surg. 2008 Jul;43(7):1275-9. Zeller MH, Modi AC, Noll JG, et al. Pyschosocial functioning   improves following adolescent bariatric surgery. Obesity.   2009;17:985–990. Michelle D. Myers, MA; Hollie A. Raynor, MS, RD; Leonard H.   Epstein, PhD. Predictors of Child Psychological Changes During   Family-Based Treatment for Obesity. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med.   1998;152:855-861. Maninder Kalra, et al. Obstructive Sleep Apnea in Extremely   Overweight Adolescents undergoing Bariatric Surgery. Obesity Research   (2005) 13, 1175–1179; doi: 10.1038/oby.2005.139 Wilson S. Tsai, MD; Thomas H. Inge, MD, PhD; Randall S. Burd,   MD, PhD. Bariatric Surgery in Adolescents: Recent National Trends in Use   and In-Hospital Outcome. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2007;161(3):217-221. Manoel Carlos P. Velhote and Durval Damiani. Bariatric Surgery   in Adolescents: Preliminary 1-year Results with a Novel Technique   (Santoro III). Obesity Surgery DOI: 10.1007/s11695-008-9520-0 Susan J. Woolford, et al. To Cut or Not to Cut: Physicians’   Perspectives on Referring Adolescents for Bariatric Surgery. Obesity   Surgery. Volume 20, Number 7, 937-942, DOI: 10.1007/s11695-010-0152-9 Pratt JSA, Lenders CM, Dionne EA, et al. Best practice updates   for pediatric/adolescent weight loss surgery. Obesity. 2009;17:901–910. Evan P. Nadler, et al.Morbidity in obese adolescents who meet   the adult National Institutes of Health criteria for bariatric surgery.   Journal of Ped Surg. Volume 44, Issue 10, Pages 1869-1876 (October 2009) Treadwell JR, Sun F, Schoelles K. Systematic review and   meta-analysis of bariatric surgery for pediatric obesity. Annals of   Surgery. 2008;248:763–776 Distance to clinic and follow-up visit compliance in adolescent gastric bypass cohort        Todd M. Jenkins, Stavra A. Xanthakos, Meg H. Zeller, Sean J. Barnett, Thomas H. Inge        Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases - 08 February 2011 (10.1016/j.soard.2011.01.039) Kaulfers, Anne-Marie D., Bean, Judy A., Inge, Thomas H., Dolan, Lawrence M., Kalkwarf, Heidi J.        Bone Loss in Adolescents After Bariatric Surgery        Pediatrics 2011 127: e956-e961 [Last editorial review/modification of this page: 4/26/2012] Disclaimer: The information contained in this web site is provided for general informational purposes only. It is not intended as nor should be relied upon as medical advice.  Rather, it is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her existing physician(s). Before you use any of the information provided in the site, you should seek the advice of a qualified medical, dietary, fitness or other appropriate professional. In the spirit of full
disclosure: We proudly support this
website through advertising and affiliate ("aff") marketing. In other words,
when you click on a link that takes you outside of this website, we
sometimes earn a small commission. These small commissions allow us to keep
the site up and running and to continue offering it completely free of
charge to you. Rest assured that all content, recommendations and
advice are created before, and are independent of, any sponsorship or
affiliate relationship. Click
here for more info. Use right scroll bar to view entire site map Ask a Weight Loss Surgery Question Surgery Q & A Click Here Our community gives and receives real-life, honest and constructive feedback and advice. Sponsored Section The Bariatric Examiner: Your FREE Quarterly Newsletter Sign up now to receive important bariatric surgery news and research updates... Email Name Then We promise to keep your information private . The Bariatric Surgery Blog: FREE real-time updates Chose your favorite RSS reader below to stay up-to-date on important new content... Subscribe To The Bariatric Surgery Blog Get the BMI Calculator widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info ) WLS Blogs We Like Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Girl Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Life Coach Lap band blog posts by the Bandit Lap band surgery blog posts by Lap Band Groupie Bariatric Girl Bari Bits Lap Band Groupie at The Sweet Spot Lonicera's LapBand & Other Stories Waning Woman Who Hid the Donuts? Have a WLS blog? Contact us! Research on Obesity Obesity United States Statistics - Adults Child Obesity Statistics & Teenage Obesity Statistics How to Calculate BMI (body mass index) Free BMI Calculator (right margin of page) BMI Calculator Chart How to Calculate Body Fat Percentage Causes of Obesity (page focuses on causes) Cause and Effect of Obesity (page focuses on effect) Teen Obesity Effects Obesity and Genetics Set Point Theory Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Treatments for Obesity Obesity Discrimination Obesity Health Problems Obese and Pregnant Bariatric Treatment Is Bariatric Surgery Right for You? Choosing
 the Right Bariatric Doctors & Bariatric Weight Loss Center Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area (city/state/ country search) Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Canada Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks (mortality) Bariatric Surgery Complications (incl. risks, complications & side effects) Dumping Syndrome Blood Clot Symptoms, Prevention and Treatment Gastric Bypass Side Effects Gastric Bypass Surgery Deaths & Risks of Gastric Bypass Complications of Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Lap Band Erosion Lap Band Surgery Failure Types of Weight Loss Surgery Types of Bariatric Surgery - Overview & Comparison Bariatric Surgery Video Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery - Analysis & Cost Gastric Lap Band Procedure Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Lap Band Surgery Results Lap Band vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Duodenal Switch (Bileopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal Switch - BPD/DS) Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Experimental Weight Loss Surgery EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner Implantable Maestro System TOGA bariatric surgery system Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction (TGVR) Gastric Bypass Revision ROSE procedure StomaphyX Procedure Conversion to lap band surgery Lengthen the Roux limb Conversion to duodenal switch Bariatric Diet Bariatric Diet Guidelines Before & After Surgery Bariatric Eating - What vs How to Eat Free Online Diet Journal Reviews Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Alcohol After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric Surgery Recovery Weight & Health After Obesity Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Relationships After Bariatric Surgery Diet After Bariatric Surgery Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Support In-person Bariatric Surgery Support Online Weight Loss Support Free Diet Journal Reviews Top Bariatric Surgery Forum Options:
Gastric Bypass Forum, Lap Band Forums & Forums for Other Procedures Support from Family & Friends After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Bariatric Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Affordable Tummy Tuck Thigh Lift Plastic Surgery Financing Weight Loss Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Loan & Plastic Surgery Loans (Unsecured Medical Loans) Secured Medical Loans Cost of Bariatric Surgery Financing Bariatric Surgery & Getting the Costs Down Weight Loss Surgery Tax Considerations Bariatric Surgery Insurance (incl. DS, VBG, gastric bypass & lap band insurance) Health Insurance Appeal Letter & the Appeals Process Medicare Bariatric Surgery Coverage Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad (medical travel / medical tourism) Free weight loss surgery (charity care & government assistance) Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery BSS Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery How to Get the Most Out of Bariatric Surgery Source What's New? About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources Weight Loss Surgeon Directory Pages United States Weight Loss Surgeons Canada (Bariatric Surgery Canada) Alabama (Alabama Weight Loss Surgery) Alaska (Alaska Weight Loss Surgeon) Arizona (Bariatric
      Surgery Arizona) Arkansas (Weight Loss
      Surgery in Arkansas) California
      - Northern (Northern
        California Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Bay Area - Alta Bates California
      - Southern (Bariatric
        Surgery Southern California) Bariatric Surgery Los Angeles - Dr. Korman Weight Loss Surgery Los Angeles - CBGSA Colorado (Colorado
      Weight Loss Surgery) Connecticut (Weight Loss
      Surgery Connecticut) Delaware (Weight Loss Surgery in Delaware) District of Columbia (Washington D.C Weight Loss Surgery) Florida (Bariatric Surgeons Florida) Georgia (Bariatric Surgery in Georgia) Hawaii (Hawaii Weight Loss Surgeon) Idaho (Idaho Weight Loss Surgery) Illinois (Illinois Bariatric Surgery) Indiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Indiana) Iowa (Iowa Bariatric Surgery Clinics) Kansas (Weight Loss Surgery in Kansas) Kentucky (Weight Loss Surgery in Kentucky) Louisiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Louisiana) Maine (Weight Loss Surgery in Maine) Maryland (Bariatric Surgery Maryland) Massachusetts (Bariatric Surgery in Massachusetts) Michigan (Bariatric Surgery Michigan) Minnesota (Bariatric Surgery Minnesota) Mississippi (Weight Loss Surgery in Mississippi) Missouri (Weight Loss Surgery Missouri) Montana (Weight Loss Surgery in Montana) Nebraska (Weight Loss Surgery in Nebraska) Nevada (Weight Loss Surgery in Nevada) Gastric Bypass Surgery Las Vegas & Lap Band Surgery Las Vegas - Dr. Teng New Hampshire (Bariatric Surgery in New Hampshire) New Jersey (Bariatric Surgery New Jersey) Weight Loss Surgery New Jersey - Dr. Feteiha New Mexico (New Mexico Weight Loss Surgery) New York (New York Weight Loss Surgery) New York Bariatric Surgery - The Center for Metabolic & Weight Loss Surgery North Carolina (North Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) North Dakota (North Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Ohio (Bariatric Surgery Ohio) Oklahoma (Bariatric Surgery in Oklahoma) Weight Loss Surgery in Oklahoma - Dr. Gornichec Oregon (Oregon Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Oregon - Dr. Patterson Pennsylvania (Pennsylvania Weight Loss Surgery) Rhode Island (Rhode Island Weight Loss Surgery) South Carolina (South Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) South Dakota (South Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Tennessee (Bariatric Surgery Tennessee) Tennessee Gastric Bypass Surgeons - Dr. Boyce Texas (Weight Loss Surgery in Texas) Weight Loss Surgery Houston Lap Band Surgery Dallas TX - Dr. Kim Bariatric Surgeons Dallas - Dr. Kuhn Houston Bariatric Surgery - Dr. St. Laurent Utah (Utah Weight Loss Surgery) Vermont (Weight Loss Surgery in Vermont) Virginia (Weight Loss Surgeon in Virginia) Washington (Bariatric Surgery Washington) Washington, DC (Washington D.C Bariatric Surgery) West Virginia (West Virginia Weight Loss Surgery) Wisconsin (Bariatric Surgery Wisconsin) Wyoming (Wyoming Weight Loss Surgery) Home | Types of Bariatric Surgery | Qualification for Bariatric Treatment | Financing Bariatric Surgery & Insurance Life After Weight Loss Surgery | Find a Bariatric Surgeon Copyright © 2008-2012  Bariatric Surgery Source | Privacy Policy | Forum Policy | Advertising  Policy | Disclaimer | Advertise Resources | About Us | Advisory Council | Contact Us | RSS This site complies with the HONcod