
Whooping cough on the rise TheFamilyGP Selected health sites Home News Encyclopaedia About Contact HEALTH ZONES Fertility and pregnancy Babies and children Young people Women's health Men's health 50+ health Healthy living Quit smoking Weight loss First aid Sexual health Allergies and hay fever Travel health Mental wellbeing Headlice HEALTH TOOLS FREE Newsletter BMI Calculator Fertility Calculator Find Health Services RSS Feed FEATURES Women's health: how to avoid the 10 most dangerous threats The Great British smile Top ten obesity related health problems Spotlight on heart attacks Top 10 strange health conditions Back to school health How to spot a dangerous mole Nine cancer warning signs that you shouldn't ignore 10 first aid techniques you should know Spotlight on hay fever Babies and children * Young people * Healthy living Whooping cough on the rise Cases double in the last year Cases of whooping cough in England and Wales have more than doubled in the last year, according to the Health Protection Agency. Figures released by the HPA show that the number of cases of whooping cough has increased from 421 in 2010 to 1,040 in 2011. Increases in whooping cough levels are seen every three to four years, and the 2011 figures are in line with the number of cases reported in the last peak year in 2008, the Agency said. Dr Mary Ramsay, head of immunisation at the HPA, said parents should ensure their children's vaccinations are up-to-date and be aware of the symptoms of the infectious respiratory disease. Although whooping cough can affect all ages, the HPA reported an increase in cases in people between the ages of 15 - 40. In the UK, children are offered the whooping cough vaccine at two, three and four months of age as part of the childhood vaccination programme. The five-in-one vaccine also protects against against diphtheria, polio, Haemophilus influenzae type b - a cause of meningitis - and tetanus. Children should receive a booster vaccination at around three years of age, before starting school, to maintain high levels of immunity to the disease. "The uptake of the vaccine which protects against whooping cough is very good but it is a highly infectious disease so when there is a case it can spread quickly," Dr Ramsay said. "Parents should ensure their children are up to date with their vaccinations so that they are protected at the earliest opportunity. "The pre-school booster is also important, not only to boost protection in that child but also to help prevent them passing the infection on to vulnerable babies, as those under four months cannot be fully protected by the vaccine." Symptoms Whooping cough, also known as pertussis, can be a serious illness, especially in the very young. The main symptoms are severe coughing fits which, in babies and children, are accompanied by the characteristic “whoop” sound as the child gasps for breath after coughing. Very young children have the highest risk of severe complications and death. The infection can be treated with a course of antibiotics to prevent the infection spreading further, but young infants may need hospital care due to the risk of severe complications. This article was published on Thu 5 January 2012 Image © Dmitry Naumov - Fotolia.com Related Stories Whooping cough Also know as pertussis Use this story Whooping cough Link to this page Printer friendly version Share this page Share Featured video Editor's picks One in five chickens contaminated with food-poisoning bug Bowel cancer: don't sit on your symptoms Text messages can boost mood Myth busters panel to challenge 'daft' health and safety decisions Dental X-rays linked to brain tumour risk IBS: 'Don't suffer in silence' Berries may help protect against Parkinson's Drive to boost egg and sperm donation Earning less money than your peers can make you happy Taller women at greater risk of ovarian cancer Breast cancer screening leads to unnecessary treatment New device helps prevent premature birth World Autism Awareness Day Be tick aware this spring Transplant organ fluid contamination fear Checking testicles for cancer does more harm than good, says doctor Swine flu vaccine linked to sleep disorder Beauty habits that can be bad for your health Thyme could be an effective treatment for acne US man receives 'most extensive face transplant' to date Sitting increases risk of death Popcorn has more antioxidants than fruit and veg Takeaway pizza saltier than sea water Why we should all cut back on salt Scots to take part in lung cancer screening trial This site and its contents ©2006-2010 TheFamilyGP.com. DISCLAIMER: The contents of this site are for information purposes only and do not constitute med