Set-Cookie: BNI__BARRACUDA_LB_COOKIE=6e5a000a00005000; Path=/

Using Honey as Medicine --- It's Making a Comeback Loading Please Wait Call Toll Free: 877-985-2695 Sign in | Join | Help SEARCH: Home Products Articles Health Blog Pets Fitness Videos My Clinic Contact Us The World's #1 Natural Health Website † Loading Please Wait INVITE YOUR FRIENDS Import Email Addresses from almost any email service to invite your friends. Article Tools Print this Page Save as Favorites My Saved Articles Current Newsletter Share
                                        Your Comment Podcasts Submit My Story Newsletter Feed Health Blog Feed BROWSE BY CATEGORY Aging Allergies Alzheimer's Arthritis Aspartame Asthma Autism Back Pain Brain Health Cancer Children's Health Cholesterol Cold and Flu Depression Detoxification Diabetes Digestive Diseases Digestive Health Drug Industry Drugs EMF Emotional Health Entertainment Fatigue Fibromyalgia Finances Fitness/Exercise Fluoride Food Fructose/Sugar Games Gardening GMO Heart Disease Heart Health High Blood Pressure Hormones Immune Support Joint Support Juicing Men's Health Mercury Free Dentistry Nutritional Typing Obesity Osteoporosis Pets Politics Raw Milk Recipe Sexual Health Sleep Soy Statins Supplements Technology Thyroid Disease Vaccines Vision Health Vitamin D Water Weight Management Women's Health TRANSLATE THIS PAGE: Top Products Whole Food Multivitamin PLUS tablets (240 per bottle): 3 bottles Sale Price: $129.97 You Save: $40.94 ( 24 %) Vitamin B12 Energy Booster Spray (0.85 fl oz per bottle): 3 bottles Sale Price: $44.97 You Save: $20.94 ( 32 %) Krill Oil Family 3-Pack: Krill for Kids (60 caps), Krill for Women (90 caps), Krill Oil (60 caps) Sale Price: $69.97 You Save: $23.40 ( 25 %) NEW Complete Probiotics with 70 Billion CFU/g (180 per bottle): 1 bottle Sale Price: $72.97 You Save: $46.94 ( 39 %) Ubiquinol capliques (90 per bottle): 1 bottle Sale Price: $57.97 You Save: $22.94 ( 28 %) Miracle Whey Protein Powder: Variety 6-Pack Sale Price: $129.00 You Save: $98.82 ( 43 %) Honey as Medicine is Making a Comeback Posted By Dr. Mercola | August 13 2007
                | 67,878 views Tweet Email Previous Next Last month, the Food and Drug Administration approved Manuka honey to be used in wound and burn care in the United States. Manuka wound dressings have already been used for several years in Great Britain, Australia, and its native New Zealand. Canada also cleared it for use as an antimicrobial dressing earlier this year. Honey was a conventional therapy in fighting infection up until the early 20th century, at which time its use slowly vanished with the advent of penicillin. Compared to other types of honey, Manuka has an extra ingredient with antimicrobial qualities, called the Unique Manuka Factor (UMF). The level of UMF can vary between batches, so each batch is ranked and priced accordingly. The higher the concentration of UMF, the darker, thicker and more expensive it is. In July 2007, the FDA gave Derma Sciences, a New Jersey-based manufacturer of wound-care products, clearance to sell Manuka wound and burn dressings as medical devices. It’s the first honey-based product approved for medical use in the United States. Washington Post August 7, 2007 Dr. Mercola's Comments: Going back to basics, using natural therapies like bee products including honey, is a step in the right direction. Especially considering the fact that traditional antibiotics are increasingly ineffective against certain microbes. According to the Centers for Disease Control, “ nearly all significant bacterial infections in the world are becoming resistant to the most commonly prescribed antibiotic treatments .” Clearly we need alternatives that do not add to the problem. One thing to remember here though, is that not all honey is appropriate for use in wound care. The specific Manuka honey now approved for use as a medical device is believed to have special anti-infection and anti-inflammatory properties. If you're considering using honey to treat a mild burn, sunburn, or small wound at home, make sure to use raw honey . Unfortunately, the vast majority of honey consumed in the United States is processed or refined. And, like most refined foods, it can promote disease and damage your health. It also will not have the same topical wound-care benefits as raw honey. On Vital Votes , Russ Bianchi, a biochemist from California reminds us: “Of course all naturally derived Manuka Honey works for this application -- just don't try this with domestic (USA) Grade A Honey, which has over 75% probability of being force-fed and regurgitated High Fructose Corn Syrup, or Invert Sugar, flavored and colored "honey", which increases infection, based on pH and lack of any naturally occurring enzymatic or anti-bacterial, or anti-microbial characteristics… How can you tell the difference as a consumer?  Invariably REAL HONEY costs two to three times more than the supermarket or generic mass-produced brands in the plastic honey bear packaging.” That said, any time you can treat yourself without resorting to antibiotics, the better. Honey has several functions that add to its topical wound-care benefits: It draws fluid away from the wound. The high sugar content suppresses microorganism growth. Worker bees secrete an enzyme (glucose oxidase) into the nectar, which then releases low levels of hydrogen peroxide when the honey makes contact with the wound. A chemical reaction between the honey and tissue also makes healing wounds smell good. Another natural wound dressing that offers impressive results without drugs is Duoderm and HemCon’s bandages , which are made from a natural protein found in shrimp shells, which promotes clotting. Other bee products, such as Royal Jelly, bee venom, and propolis, have also been shown to help combat everything from dental plaque to Lyme disease . Honey can also help with diarrhea, insomnia, and sore throats. Eating raw honey is likely to promote health as long as it’s used in moderation and you do not suffer from signs of elevated insulin such as: Overweight High blood pressure High blood cholesterol Diabetes Related Links: How Honey Can Help Wounds Heal Better The Healing Properties of Raw Honey Can Honey Help Fight Cancer? Tweet Email Previous Article Next Article Loading Please Wait View Comments (43) POST YOUR COMMENT Reply to this thread (2000 Characters only.) Characters remaining: * Please enter your comment! Edit Your Comment (2000 Characters only.) Characters remaining: * Please enter your comment! Comment deleted violating the aspect of our terms of use Tweet Email Previous Article Next Article Loading Please Wait Email this article to a friend The World's #1 Natural Health Website † Loading Please Wait Inside Mercola.com: About Dr. Mercola Articles Blog Contact Us Dr. Mercola’s Clinic En Espanol Jobs Podcasts Press Room Shopping Cart Special Reports Video Library Wholesale Program Products: Air Purifier Bath Care Cookware Dental Care Feminine Care Krill Oil Organic India Power Plate Probiotics Productos Protein Powder Skin Care Tanning Beds Vision Fitness Water Filters All Products Special Info Sites: Aspartame Cancer Fitness Fluoride Fructose/Sugar GMO Mercury Nutritional Typing Pets Vaccines Vitamin D * These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product. Disclaimer: The entire contents of this website are based upon the opinions of Dr. Mercola, unless otherwise noted. Individual articles are based upon the opinions of the respective author, who retains copyright as marked. The information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. It is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of Dr. Mercola and his community. Dr. Mercola encourages you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health care professional. † The World's #1 Natural Health Website claim is based upon Alexa Natural Health Website rankings . *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This
                product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you
                are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your
                physician before using this product. Privacy
                    Policy | Terms of Use Disclaimer: The entire contents of this website are based upon
                    the opinions of Dr. Mercola, unless otherwise noted. Individual articles are based
                    upon the opinions of the respective author, who retains copyright as marked. The
                    information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship
                    with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
                    It is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience
                    of Dr. Mercola and his community. Dr. Mercola encourages you to make your own health
                    care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health
                    care professional. † The World's #1 Natural Health Website claim is based upon Alexa Natural Health Website rankings . If you want to use this article on your site please click here . This content may be copied in full, with copyright, contact,
                creation and information intact, without specific permission, when used only in
                a not-for-profit format. If any other use is desired, permission in writing from
                Dr. Mercola is required. © Copyright 1997-2012
                Dr. Joseph Mercola. All Rights Reserved. Please or to continue . Save Options Private Favorites (This will appear on your saved articles for later viewing) Shared Favorites (This will appear on your profile as one of your favorites) Invite Your Friends Invite Your Friends More