Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Sore Throat (Pharyngitis) MoonDragon's Health & Wellness SORE THROAT BASIC INFORMATION "For Informational Use Only" For more detailed information contact 
your health care provider about options that may be available for your specific situation. DESCRIPTION Sore throats are one of the most common health complaints and are so common that they are one of the main 
reasons people see a health care provider. But many of those office visits are not needed. The dry scratchiness 
and painful swallowing that are the hallmarks of a sore throat can make you miserable. Sore throats can be 
caused by many things. Viruses (like those that cause colds) can lead to a sore throat. Bacteria can also 
cause a sore throat, as can smoking, breathing polluted air, drinking alcohol, and hay fever and other 
allergies. A sore throat is known medically as pharyngitis. It is most often caused by a viral infection such as a 
cold or the flu (influenza). In many cases, a sore throat is the first sign that you are getting sick. In 
most cases, a sore throat is caused by a virus that soon goes away on its own. A sore throat is rarely 
caused by a bacterial infection that requires medical care or treatment with antibiotics. Until you are 
feeling better, over-the-counter medications and home treatments can help ease your symptoms. Sore throats are usually named for the anatomical site affected. Pharyngitis: The pharynx, the area of your throat directly behind your mouth and soft palate, 
is a common hallway for food, liquids, and air. Swallowing safely delivers solids and liquids to the 
stomach through the esophagus. Pharyngitis is pain and inflammation of the pharynx. Tonsillitis: Tonsillitis typically involves inflammation of the tonsils (tonsils are located on either 
side of the base of the tongue). Laryngitis: The larynx, the top portion of your windpipe (trachea), has an important gatekeeper 
function. It allows passage of air in and out of the lungs (through the trachea), but bars the entry 
of solids and liquids. Sound production at the vocal cords is an important side job of the larynx. 
Laryngitis is pain and inflammation of the larynx (often associated with a hoarse voice). Croup is 
a form of laryngitis in children (it tends to be associated with a seal bark cough and difficulty 
inhaling air). Epiglottitis: This rare type of sore throat is inflammation of the epiglottis (a tall semitubular 
structure at the opening to the larynx separating it from the base of the tongue). SYMPTOMS Symptoms of sore throat throughout the body include fever, headache, nausea, body aches, and malaise. These may be 
present with either a viral or bacterial infection. Cold viruses tend to cause more coughing, sneezing 
and runny nose than strep throat. Symptoms specific to the throat include pain with swallowing for pharyngitis and a hoarse voice when 
laryngitis is present. Signs of sore throat may include the following: A dry, scratchy or swollen throat. Pain when swallowing, breathing or talking. Pus on the surface of the tonsils (can happen with bacteria or viruses). Redness of the oropharynx (the pharynx viewed though the mouth). Tender neck glands (inflamed lymph nodes). Drooling or spitting (swallowing becomes too painful). Difficulty breathing (inhaling can be especially difficult when the passage through the pharynx 
or larynx becomes too narrow for a normal stream of air). Vesicles (bubbles of fluid on a red base) in the oral cavity or oropharynx may indicate the 
presence of Coxsackie virus or herpes simplex virus. Two-thirds of people with strep throat have only redness with no pus on the tonsils. VIRAL SORE THROAT In most cases, the underlying cause of a sore throat - such as a cold or the flu - will get better on its 
own within a week. Less often, a sore throat is caused by something that needs treatment to get better. BACTERIAL (STREP THROAT OR TONSILLITIS) Tonsillitis means swelling of the tonsils (at the back of your mouth on each side of your throat). 
It can cause a sore throat and other symptoms. Signs of strep throat and tonsillitis are often alike 
Tonsillitis is usually caused by bacteria, though sometimes a virus may be involved. Signs that your sore 
throat may have a more serious underlying cause, such as tonsillitis or strep throat, include: White patches or pus on your throat or tonsils. Inability to swallow. A sore throat that does not get better on its own or keeps coming back. Stomachache and sometimes vomiting, especially in younger children. Skin rash, such as seen with scarlet fever - a severe strep infection. Headache. Severe throat pain. Swollen, red tonsils. Sore glands in the jaw and throat. A high fever over 101°F (38.3°C) in babies under age 6 months or 103°F (39.4°C) in older 
children and adults. SYMPTOMS REQUIRING MEDICAL CARE Although uncomfortable, most sore throats are not harmful and go away on their own in five to seven days. 
But sometimes they can signal a more serious condition. See your health care provider if you or a child has 
any of the following: A sore throat that is severe or lasts longer than a week. Difficulty swallowing or breathing. A fever over 101°F (38.3°C) in babies under age 6 months. A fever over 103°F (39.4°C) in older children and adults. Tender or swollen lymph nodes in the neck. Pus or white patches at the back of the throat. Skin rashes, which can be a sign of an underlying condition such as measles, meningitis or mono (infectious 
mononucleosis). Hoarseness or a cough that lasts longer than two weeks. Blood in the saliva or phlegm. Signs or symptoms of dehydration, such as sunken eyes, severe weakness and decreased urine output. Contact with someone who has been diagnosed with strep throat. Sore throats that get better but keep coming back. Excessive drooling (in a young child). CAUSES OF SORE THROATS VIRAL CAUSES Sore throats are commonly caused by viruses (viral pharyngitis), often the same viruses that cause colds 
and flu (influenza) or other upper respiratory illnesses. You cannot get rid of a cold-caused sore throat 
with antibiotics. That is because colds are caused by viruses, and antibiotics only work against bacteria. 
Besides, taking antibiotics unnecessarily can contribute to the growing problem of microbial resistance. 
When bacteria are frequently exposed to antibiotics, they may become "superbugs" that cannot be treated 
with standard medications. The most common viral illnesses that cause a sore throat include: Common Cold . Influenza (The Flu) . Mononucleosis (Infectious Mono) . 
Mononucleosis (mono) is a viral infection caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. One of the main signs of 
mono is a sore throat that may last for 1 to 4 weeks. Other signs include swollen glands in your neck, 
armpits and groin, fever and chills, headache, and feeling tired. Other viral illnesses that can cause a sore throat include: Measles ( Rubella or Rubeola ). Chickenpox . Croup (a common childhood illness 
characterized by a harsh, barking cough). Herpes virus 1 (Herpes Simplex) . BACTERIAL CAUSES Less often, sore throats are due to bacterial infections. Bacterial infections that can cause a sore 
throat include: Strep throat (an infection of streptococcal bacteria). Group A Streptococcal bacteria is the most 
common bacterial cause of the severe sore throat known commonly as "strep throat." It occurs mostly 
in school age children, but people of all ages are susceptible. Strep throat constitutes about 12 
percent of all sore throat cases seen by health care providers. Foodborne and waterborne infections (Streptococcus C and G). An uncommon organism called Arcanobacterium haemolyticum (infection with this bacterium can mimic 
strep throat and may even cause a rash). Tonsillitis. Diphtheria (a serious respiratory illness that is rare in industrialized nations but is more common 
in developing countries. Viruses and bacteria both enter your body through your mouth or nose - either because you breathe in 
particles that are released into the air when someone coughs or sneezes, or because you have contact 
with an infected person or use shared objects such as utensils, towels, toys, doorknobs or a telephone. 
Because the germs that cause sore throats are contagious, they can spread easily wherever large numbers 
of people congregate, such as schools, child care centers and offices. OTHER CAUSES OF SORE THROAT Sore throat may also be caused by chemicals, such as cigarette smoke, pollution and other irritants. 
Outdoor air pollution can cause ongoing throat irritation. But indoor pollution - especially tobacco smoke - 
is an even greater cause of chronic sore throat. Smokeless tobacco, alcohol and spicy foods can also inflame 
your throat. Breathing through the mouth (can cause drying and irritation of the throat) is often associated with 
chronic nasal congestion. Dryness. Dry indoor air, especially in winter when rooms tend to be overheated, can make your throat 
feel rough and scratchy, particularly in the morning when you first wake up. Injury, such as a scrape from a bone fragment. Fish, chicken bone, or other foreign substance stuck in the 
throat. (For emergency actions, see choking child or adult or CPR .) Muscle strain. You can strain muscles in your throat just as you can strain them in your arms or 
legs. If you have ever gotten a sore throat after yelling at a concert or sporting event, you have likely 
strained your throat muscles. Your voice may also be hoarse (a symptom of laryngitis). Professional singers 
have to take special care of their throat and vocal cords to prevent straining and injury. Acid gastroesophageal reflux disease 
(GERD) . This occurs when stomach acid backs up into your food pipe (esophagus). Normally, a circular 
band of muscle (lower esophageal sphincter) blocks acid from coming up into the esophagus. But if the 
sphincter relaxes abnormally or weakens, stomach acid can back up, irritating your throat as well as 
your esophagus. Throat irritation caused by GERD does not occur with other symptoms of a viral illness, 
and it tends to be persistent, rather than lasting just a few days. It is also far more common in adults 
than in children. In many cases, you can prevent or reduce acid reflux with simple lifestyle changes - 
losing weight, avoiding foods that cause you discomfort and not eating right before bed, for example. 
When these are not effective, over-the-counter or prescription medications may offer some relief. HIV/AIDS infection . HIV-positive 
people sometimes develop a chronic sore throat. This is due to a secondary infection such as oral thrush 
or cytomegalovirus, a common viral infection that can be extremely serious in people with compromised 
immune systems. Tumors . If you smoke or 
abuse alcohol, you are at high risk of tumors of the throat, tongue and voice 
box. In some people these tumors cause few, if any, signs and symptoms. In others, they can lead to 
hoarseness, difficulty swallowing and sore throat. Allergies . The same 
pet dander, molds and pollens that trigger allergic reactions such as red, swollen 
eyes and a runny nose can also cause a sore throat. Postnasal drip. Cancer . Early cancer, such as laryngeal 
cancer, often presents with painless symptoms. Rarely, a sore throat may indicate chronic fatigue syndrome, Epstein-Barr virus, epiglottitis, 
gingivitis, or and abscess around the tonsils. Certain medical treatments can cause a sore throat: Tonsillectomy surgery and adenoidectomy surgery. Airway management during an operation, such as endotracheal intubation (tub insertion). Cancer treatment with chemotherapy or radiation. RISK FACTORS Although anyone can get a sore throat, some factors make you more susceptible to throat problems. 
These factors include: Age. Children and teens are most likely to develop sore throats. Children are also more likely to have 
strep throat, the most common bacterial infection associated with a sore throat. Smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke. Tobacco smoke, whether primary or secondary, contains 
hundreds of toxic chemicals that can irritate the throat lining. Allergies. If you have seasonal allergies or ongoing allergic reactions to dust, molds or pet dander, 
you are more likely to develop a sore throat than are people who do not have allergies. Exposure to chemical irritants. Particulate matter in the air from the burning of fossil fuels as 
well as common household chemicals can cause throat irritation. Chronic or frequent sinus infections. Drainage from nose or sinus infections can cause throat 
infections as well. Living or working in close quarters. Viral and bacterial infections spread easily anywhere people 
gather, such as child care centers, classrooms, offices, prisons, hospitals, health care offices and clinics, 
public transportation systems, and military installations. Poor hygiene. Washing your hands carefully and often is the best way to prevent many viral and bacterial 
infections. Lowered immunity. You are more susceptible to infections in general if your resistance is low. Common 
causes of lowered immunity include diseases such as HIV and diabetes, treatment with steroids or chemotherapy 
drugs, stress, fatigue and poor diet. PREVENTION The best way to prevent illness is also one of the simplest: frequent, thorough hand washing. 
Alcohol-based hand sanitizers are an excellent alternative to hand washing, particularly when soap and 
water are not available. However, it is not necessary to use antibacterial soaps. With proper hand 
washing, standard soap will kill germs just as well. MoonDragon's Infection Control: Handwashing Guidelines Try these tips to keep you and your children healthy: Avoid sharing eating utensils, glasses, napkins, food or towels with others. Clean your hands frequently, especially before eating and after using the toilet. This is a powerful 
way to help prevent many sore throat infections. Avoid touching public phones or drinking fountains with your mouth. Regularly clean telephones, TV remotes and computer keyboards with sanitizing cleanser. When you 
travel, clean phones and remotes in your hotel room. Avoid close contact with people who are sick and if you are sick avoid others. You might avoid 
some sore throats by reducing contact with people with sore throats, but often these people are contagious 
even before they have symptoms, so this approach is less effective. Cold viruses appear to be more readily 
transmitted than streptococcal infections. Only about 25 percent of family members exposed to strep 
develop strep throat. Usually a person with strep throat becomes noninfectious within 24 hours after 
the first antibiotic dose. The incubation period (the time between exposure to strep germs and onset 
of illness) is usually 2-5 days. Children should stay home from school and day care during infectious periods. Stay indoors as much as possible on high pollution days. Avoid dust and fumes. Do not smoke, and avoid exposure to secondhand smoke. Chronic coughing may contribute to sore throats. Get regular dental care. Tooth or gum infections, dental work and oral abrasions can contribute to sore 
throats and illness. Humidify your home if the air is dry. A cool mist vaporizer or humidifier can prevent some sore throats 
caused by breathing dry air with an open mouth. Cough or sneeze into a tissue and then throw it away. Wash hands afterward. On a commercial airplane keep the air nozzle above you closed. The recirculated air can be a source 
of spreading viruses. Do not strain your voice by excessive shouting or loud talking. If you sing, take care of your voice. Not too long ago, tonsils were commonly removed in an attempt to prevent sore throats. This is no longer 
recommended in most circumstances. COMPLICATIONS Most conditions that cause sore throats are not serious and go away on their own without causing any 
complications. However, some bacterial and viral infections can lead to other, more serious problems. Strep throat, a bacterial infection, can trigger other conditions that include: Tonsillitis. Sinus infection ( Sinusitis ). Ear infection. Scarlet fever, an illness characterized by a rash. Inflammation of the Kidney (glomerulonephritis). Rheumatic Fever , 
which can damage organs such as the heart. MONONUCLEOSIS COMPLICATIONS Mono (Infectious Mononucleosis ) is a viral infection that can lead to complications including: Inflammation of the spleen or ruptured spleen. Liver inflammation (hepatitis). Low levels of blood cells involved in clotting (platelets). Anemia. Inflammation of the heart. Nerve damage, possibly leading to paralysis. Swollen tonsils, leading to obstructed breathing. For more information about disorders often related to sore throat symptoms, see these links: MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Allergies MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Chickenpox MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Common Cold MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Croup MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Ear Infection MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Influenza (The Flu) MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Mononucleosis MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Rheumatic Fever MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Rubella Measles MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Rubeola Measles MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Sinusitis DIAGNOSIS & TREATMENT EXAMS & TESTS PREPARING FOR YOUR HEALTH CARE APPOINTMENT Your health care provider will want to know what symptoms you have been having and how long you have had 
them. He or she will ask you a number of questions and do a physical examination to try to determine 
the cause of your sore throat. You can help by writing down any symptoms you are experiencing. Make a list of all medications, vitamins 
and any other supplements you are taking. Be sure to write down any questions you may have to ask your health 
care provider. Your time is limited with your health care provider, so preparing a list of information and 
questions will help you make the most of your time together and will prevent you from forgetting something 
you feel is important. In addition to the questions that you have prepared to ask your health care provider, 
do not hesitate to ask questions during your appointment at any time that you do not understand something. THE EXAMINATION Your health care provider will perform a physical examination. He or she may want to know some details 
about the sore throat, such as: When did the symptoms begin? How long has the sore throat been present? Have you (or your child) had a cold, sinus infection or ear infection? Have other family members had recent sore throats? How high has the fever been and how long has it lasted? How severe are the symptoms? Do you (or your child) have any allergies? Is the pain increasing, staying the same, or decreasing? Are you able to swallow saliva, fluids, and food? Is there excessive drooling (in infants)? Are you hoarse? Is it worse at night? Are you able to sleep? Are you breathing through your mouth? Is the soreness better in the morning? Better with moist air or mist? Better with medication? What other symptoms are also present, such as noisy breathing, fever, wheezing, allergies, rash? Have you had a recent injury or surgery? Are there swollen lymph glands in your neck? Are there sores or pus in the back of your throat? Is there a sensation of gagging? What medications are you taking? What is your typical daily diet? Most often, your health care provider will diagnose the cause of a sore throat on the basis of a physical 
exam and a throat culture. During the exam, your health care provider is likely to check your throat 
for redness and swelling and for white streaks or pus on your tonsils. Although these signs indicate an 
infection, there is no accurate way to tell by looking if the infection is viral or bacterial. Your health care provider may also do a throat culture to check for signs of a viral, bacterial or 
fungal infection. The following diagnostic tests may be performed: Complete blood count (CBC). Monospot test (to rule out mononucleosis). Throat culture. Rapid Strep Test. RAPID STREP TEST & THROAT CULTURE Your health care provider is likely to take a throat culture and/or perform what is known as a rapid strep 
test to check for the presence of bacteria that cause strep throat. In either case, your health care 
provider will rub a sterile swab over the back of your throat and tonsils to get a sample of the secretions. A rapid strep test to check for bacterial infection will give results fast, usually within about 15 minutes 
to a few hours. But the test will not tell if your sore throat is caused by a bacterium other than 
Streptococcus or if it is caused by a virus. Because Rapid Tests may miss a fair number of infections, your 
health care provider may choose to have additional laboratory testing done as well. A throat culture takes longer (about 24-48 hours), but it is more accurate. If your health care provider 
thinks you may have mono, he or she will probably do a blood test. Since the rapid strep test is sometimes unreliable and the throat culture can take up to 48 hours for results, 
your health care provider may prescribe antibiotics based on the history and examination alone. Treatment 
with antibiotics can be either initiated on a delayed basis or discontinued if begun already based on 
this final result. MONONUCLEOSIS TESTING A blood count and antibody test may be helpful when mononucleosis is suspected (although not often 
necessary, because mononucleosis is a viral illness generally requiring only symptomatic treatment). OTHER TESTS When epiglottitis is suspected, neck x-rays may be helpful. TONSILLITIS RECURRENT SORE THROAT Recurrent tonsillitis and sore throat is one of the very common childhood disorders and can have 
significant impact on the health of a child. The winter months with severe cold weather can be very 
troublesome for those kids who have the tendency for it. Tonsils are a pair of tissues situated on either side inside your throat. They are made up of lymph 
tissue (this means that they are a part of our body?s defense system).Their function is to filter harmful 
bacteria's and viruses going inside our body through the mouth. These tonsils are filled with white blood 
cells ready to catch and destroy harmful microorganisms but at times they are overwhelmed by these 
microorganisms and inflammation in the tonsils takes place. This inflammation in the tonsils is called 
as tonsillitis. This causes them to swell up and become fiery red in color too The diagnosis of Recurrent Tonsillitis is made if the child has multiple episodes of acute tonsillitis. 
In acute tonsillitis, Pain in throat is often the symptoms that children first complain off. If you 
examine your child's throat with torchlight, you will notice tonsils are enlarged and also red in 
color. They may also show white spots on them. Other signs and symptoms of tonsillitis include pain 
while swallowing and or difficulty in swallowing food, fever is common with inflamed tonsils. They 
may also complain of headache as well as enlarged and sore glands in the jaw and neck. In some children the 
voice may also get altered. Airway obstruction due to swollen tonsils may cause mouth breathing, 
snoring, and nocturnal breathing pauses. TONSILLITIS SURGERY (TONSILLECTOMY) Although in past years the removal of the tonsils by surgery was often performed in children. Today, surgery 
is not a good solution. The modern medical world has realized that removing a body part whose function 
itself is to protect the body from infection does no good. In reality it predisposes the body more towards 
infection. A better choice would be Homeopathic treatment as it offers a safe and a very effective solution 
in treating and even eradicating ones tendency towards tonsillitis. HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT Homeopathic treatment can treat both the acute condition and also stop the recurrence of tonsillitis. 
In acute tonsillitis homeopathic medicines such as Baryta Carb, Mercurius group, Belladonna, Aconite, 
Hepar Sulph work wonders if employed according to their indications. When an acute infection is treated 
with the right homeopathic medicine, the chances of tonsillitis recurring again also slim down. But in 
some cases a specialized treatment which actually fortifies the child's defense system also needs to 
be done. This kind of treatment is known in homeopathic philosophy as constitutional treatment where 
Deep-acting medicines are used to treat the constitution of the child and bring about lasting relief. PREVENTING & MANAGING TONSILLITIS Proper Hand Washing: This is still the best way to prevent all kinds of infections, including 
tonsillitis. Make the child wash his hands thoroughly with soap and running water. Make sure that they wash 
the back side of the hands too. Saline Water Gargles: If your child is old enough to do gargles, make sure he does it several 
times a day, especially during the episode of acute tonsillitis. Adequate Rest: Plenty of rest is necessary for the child to fight infection. Make sure that 
the child gets good rest till the symptoms subside. Warm Drinks To Soothe: Giving them warm drinks like soup tea or hot milk can be very soothing 
when there is an acute inflammation of tonsils. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Tonsillitis Mom has the right idea when she asks her kids to say "ahhh". Looking inside the throat can reveal important 
clues about what is causing the pain. Strep often produces a distinct pattern of white patches in the throat 
and on the tonsils, as well as red swollen tonsils. STREP THROAT STREP THROAT IS A BACTERIAL INFECTION The reason it is so important to distinguish between strep and a common sore throat is that strep is caused 
by a bacterial infection (Group A Streptococcus) and a simple sore throat may be caused by other 
types of bacteria or viruses. The Streptococcus bacteria are the same bacteria that causes rheumatic 
fever. Only 5-10 percent of adult sore throats are caused by strep, whereas about 15-40 percent of sore 
throats in children are related to strep. The pain of strep throat often feels much like sore throats 
caused by other bacteria or by viruses. What is important and different about strep throat is that if 
it is not treated with the right antibiotics, it can sometimes result in rheumatic fever, in which the 
strep bacteria may enter the bloodstream and travel to the heart, damaging the valves of the heart or 
other vital organs. Though rare, this can cause serious illness. EARLY DETECTION A major objective of treating strep throat is to prevent the development of rheumatic fever, a serious 
illness that can cause joint pain and heart valve damage. However, antibiotics do not necessarily speed 
the healing of the sore throat itself, and antibiotics are of no help for a sore throat unless it is 
caused by strep. Another strep-related illness, scarlet fever, can cause a rash, but will not 
cause heart injury or joint pain. STREP THROAT DIAGNOSIS Most cold-related sore throats are caused by viruses and require no treatment. They usually do not last 
more than a day. When the sore throat persists and is very painful the health care provider will want to 
rule out or confirm the presence of the strep bacteria. Coughing and sneezing can make your throat feel bad, but these symptoms are a fairly good sign that you 
do not have strep. When congestion, runny nose, and other cold symptoms accompany a sore throat, a cold 
virus is usually to blame. Colds sometimes cause a fever, but it is generally low grade. A sore throat with a fever over 101 degrees 
Fahrenheit raises the likelihood of strep. However, strep can be present even with little or no fever. The health care provider will look for redness and pus-filled patches on the tonsils and back of the 
throat. Enlarged tonsils are less likely to indicate a strep throat. Strep throat may cause the lymph nodes in the neck to become swollen and tender.  The practitioner 
will feel the sides of the neck for swollen lymph nodes. If the lymph nodes are not swollen, it is less 
likely to be a strep throat. The lymph nodes are responsible for collecting and destroying germs. When 
part of the body is infected, the nearest lymph nodes tend to swell as they carry out their job. A sore throat caused by a cold can be plenty painful, but it usually goes away after a couple of days. 
Strep throat tends to be more severe and persistent - the pain may be so bad, it is hard to swallow. In 
some cases, strep may cause nausea, a lack of appetite, or pain in the head and abdomen. A less common sign of strep is a rash that appears on the neck and chest, eventually spreading to the 
rest of the body. When this rough, sandpaper-like rash develops, the infection is known as scarlet fever. 
Although the full body rash may be alarming, it is not dangerous when treated with antibiotics. RAPID STREPTOCOCCUS ANTIGEN TESTS / RAPID ANTIGEN DETECTION TEST (RAD) A rapid streptococcus antigen test is used to quickly diagnose strep throat, a contagious infection of 
the pharynx caused by a Group A streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes), commonly referred to as GAS.
 While a throat culture remains the gold standard for diagnosis of group A streptococcus infection, 
this procedure takes 24-48 hours for results. A rapid strep test takes only five minutes to perform. 
Since streptococci are sensitive to penicillin and related drugs, antibiotic therapy can be initiated 
immediately when the test is positive. A positive test result eliminates the need for bacterial throat culture. An untreated strep throat can increase the patient's risk of developing scarlet or rheumatic fever, which 
is associated with meningitis; and diseases affecting the heart, skin, kidneys, and joints. 
False-negative results occur with this test with a frequency ranging from 4-39 percent. Therefore, negative 
test results should be confirmed by throat culture. Approximately 10-19 percent of all sore throats are caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococci. The 
majority of strep throat infections occur in children between the ages of five and fifteen, although 
adults with weakened immune systems are also at risk. The highest incidence of strep throat occurs during 
the winter and early spring months. Rapid streptococcal tests utilize antibodies to detect streptococcal 
antigens. There are four different direct streptococcal antigen detection platforms available in a wide 
number of different commercial products. These are latex agglutination; optical immunoassay; double 
antibody sandwich immunoassay; and immunochromatographic detection. The majority of rapid assays used 
today are based on double antibody sandwich and/or immunochromatography because these techniques do not 
require mixing, multiple reagent addition, or washing. An example of a combined double antibody sandwich 
immunochromatography method is described below. The first step of a rapid strep test is the extraction of specific Group A streptococcal carbohydrate 
antigen from the swab. The swab is placed in a test tube to which the extracting reagents have been added. 
The swab is rotated vigorously in the solution while pressing the tip against the sides of the test tube. 
After all fluid is pressed from the swab, it is discarded and the extract is applied to a nitrocellulose 
membrane containing both immobilized antibodies and non-immobilized antibodies to different regions of 
the Group A strep antigen. The non-immobilized antibodies are conjugated to dyed colloidal gold particles. 
If Group A streptococcal carbohydrate antigen is present in the extract, the conjugated antibodies bind 
to it, forming antigen-antibody complexes. These migrate along the membrane until they reach the reaction 
zone containing immobilized antibodies to the same Group A strep antigen. These antibodies capture the 
antigen-antibody complexes, forming a colored band or line (usually pink or blue) in the reaction zone area. Specificity of these tests is approximately 97-98 percent. Few causes of false positives have been reported. 
False positives are possible when the patient's throat contains a heavy growth of Staphylococcus aureus. 
False-negative test results are commonly reported and often occur when insufficient antigen is obtained 
from the swab extraction procedure. All rapid group A strep tests require a sample from the infected patient's throat. The sample is obtained 
by depressing the tongue and swabbing the back of the throat and tonsils, while avoiding the tongue, 
saliva and lips. The swab should come in contact with all the inflamed areas, vesicles and pustular 
tonsils. Swabs made of rayon or Dacron should be used. Swabs containing cotton, calcium alginate, or 
wooden shafts, or that have been placed in transport medium containing charcoal are not recommended. There are no aftercare concerns with this test and there are no complications associated with this test. 
These tests are usually performed in a health care provider's office. Normal results are negative. However, these assays tend to have low sensitivity, and thus it is recommended 
that all negative tests be followed by culture of a different throat swab on a blood agar plate for 
the isolation of beta-hemolytic streptococci. A positive result indicates an infection with group A 
streptococcus, and does not require culture follow-up. THROAT CULTURE A cotton swab is used to take a sample of pus in the throat for a throat culture. A throat culture is the 
most effective and least expensive test for confirming the presence of strep throat. It takes 24-48 hours 
to obtain a result. If the Rapid Strep Test is negative, a second swab is used to perform a qualitative culture on one half 
of a blood agar plate (Selective Streptococcal Agar, Becton Dickinson, Cockeysville, MD), and a 
bacitracin disk (Taxo A Disk, Becton Dickinson). The throat swab sample is placed on the streaked agar. 
Culture plates are incubated at 37°C in air for 24 hours. A technologist (or on-call practitioner on Sundays) 
interprets the cultures each day. Growth of Beta-hemolytic colonies with a zone of inhibition around the 
bacitracin disk is identified presumptively as GABHS (Group A Beta-Hemolytic Streptococci). Strep Detection - Beta-Hemolytic Streptococci Culture ANTIBIOTICS FOR STREP THROAT If you are diagnosed with strep, your health care provider may prescribe 7 to 10 days of antibiotics. 
You will probably feel better in a day or two, but it is vital to take the entire course of antibiotics 
anyway - otherwise some of the bacteria may survive. Remember, your strep can still be contagious, so wash 
your hands often, cover your mouth when coughing, and do not share utensils. And be sure to throw away your 
toothbrush after you have had strep. If are allergic to penicillin or if your sore throat is caused by a 
different bacteria, your health care provider may prescribe another type of antibiotic. The following antibiotics are generally used to treat strep throat: Penicillin is usually the antibiotic of choice unless the patient is allergic. A full 10 days may be 
necessary. Amoxicillin, a form of penicillin, is proving to be effective when taken in a single daily 
dose for 10 days. Macrolide antibiotics. Erythromycin is known as a macrolide antibiotic and is the first choice for 
patients with penicillin allergies. A 10-day regimen is needed. Another macrolide, azithromycin, can be 
given as a single daily dose and may be effective in 5 days. It is expensive, however, and bacterial 
resistance to macrolides is growing, so it should not be given as a first choice. Cephalosporins are very effective in eradicating the bacteria. Antibiotics are very commonly inappropriately prescribed for non-strep sore throats. One study reported 
that an estimated 6.7 million American adults visited their health care provider because of sore throat 
between 1989 and 1999, with 73 percent of them receiving antibiotics. Studies indicate, however, that 
fewer than half of adults and far fewer children with even strong signs and symptoms for strep throat 
actually have strep infections. Parents should be comforted that a delay in antibiotic treatment while waiting for lab results does not 
increase the risk that the child will develop serious long-term complications, including acute rheumatic 
fever. If a patient is severely ill, however, it is reasonable to begin administering antibiotics before 
the results are back. If the culture is negative (there is no evidence of bacteria), the health care 
provider should call the family to make certain the patient stops taking the antibiotics and any remaining 
pills are discarded. Children who have a sore throat and who have had rheumatic fever in the past should receive antibiotics 
immediately, even before culture results are back. Children with a sore throat who have a family member 
with strep throat or rheumatic fever should also receive immediate antibiotic treatment. CONVENTIONAL MEDICAL TREATMENT FOR SORE THROAT Care of a sore throat involves treatment of pain, dehydration, or difficulty breathing. Airway problems are 
common with croup or epiglottitis. Usually, treatment will be delayed until the culture results are known. Health care providers will often 
begin treatment of a sore throat immediately if there is a family history of rheumatic fever, if the 
patient has scarlet fever, or if rheumatic fever is commonly occurring in the community at the time. 
Otherwise, antibiotics should NOT be given without a positive strep test (culture or rapid strep test). ANTIBIOTICS At one time, health care providers automatically treated all sore throats with antibiotics, both to cure 
the infection and to prevent dangerous complications such as rheumatic fever. Now, health care providers 
are much less likely to prescribe antibiotics because the overuse of antibiotics has led to an alarming 
increase in antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria. Most importantly, most cases of sore throat are 
not caused by bacteria, so antibiotics will not help. Antibiotics are not helpful when a virus causes a sore throat. Sometimes it is difficult to determine 
whether the cause is viral or bacterial, so antibiotics may be prescribed as a precaution. Antibiotics 
are usually NOT wise in the absence of a positive strep test or throat culture. Antibiotics 
speed the resolution of a strep throat by an average of only 1.5 days. Antibiotics are helpful in preventing rheumatic fever (an uncommon but severe complication of a 
streptococcal infection, which may cause severe inflammation of the heart muscle and heart valves). 
Corticosteroids can be helpful in the treatment of a few select types of sore throats. Although they 
impair immune function, the anti-inflammatory effect can be very useful. They are mostly used in 
cases of severe tonsillitis or in cases of croup. When antibiotics are started, it is important to complete the entire course as directed, even after 
symptoms improve. This helps prevent the infection from coming back. It also prevents bacteria from 
becoming resistant to the medication. Children can return to school or day care after antibiotics 
are started if your child feels well and does not have a fever or when they are no longer contagious - 
usually 24 hours after beginning treatment. For a sore throat caused by infectious mononucleosis, rest and home treatment is recommended. For a sore throat caused by bacterial tonsillitis, antibiotic treatment may be recommended. Some 
tonsillitis is viral and will clear up without treatment (surgery is rarely necessary). Recurrent 
or persistent sore throats without bacterial infection may be due to allergies and require anti-allergy 
treatment. SELF-CARE AT HOME Treatment of pain is often the number 1 priority if you have a sore throat. Most sore throats are soon over. 
In the meantime, the following remedies may help: Throat Lozenges / Hard Candy: Sucking on hard candies or throat lozenges can be very soothing, 
because it increases saliva production. However, throat lozenges often prove inadequate for all but the 
most minor cases. This is often as effective as more expensive remedies, but should not be used in young 
children because of the choking risk. Salt Water Gargle: Gargling with salt water is sometimes helpful. Gargle several times a day 
with warm salt water (1/2 teaspoon of table salt in 1 cup warm water), which can help keep the throat moist 
and reduce that raw, scratchy feeling. Gargling with warm salt water of warm water and then spitting the 
the saltwater out will soothe your throat and clear it of mucus. Increased Fluids: Drinking enough fluids is very important. Since fever and painful swallowing 
can lead to dehydration, it is important to increase your intake of fluids to combat it. Water and ginger 
ale are good choices. Avoid citrus drinks which can irritate an inflamed throat. A fever can increase 
Choose high-quality fluids such as soup broth (replaces both salt and water losses) and sugar-containing 
solutions (they help your body absorb the fluids more rapidly). Drink warm liquids. Honey and/or lemon 
tea is a time-tested remedy. Stir honey and lemon to taste into a glass of very hot water, allowing it to cool 
to room temperature before you or your children sip it. The honey coats and soothes your throat, and the 
lemon helps cut mucus. This time-tested recipe may relieve most of your pain, if only temporarily. 
Avoid caffeine (found in coffee, non-herbal teas, and some sodas) because it is a natural diuretic and 
avoid alcohol, both of which can cause water loss and dehydration. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Dehydration Cold Liquids or Foods: Cold liquids, such as milk shakes, ice chips, or popsicles help some sore 
throats. If you need an excuse to eat ice cream, a sore throat is a good one. Gelatin is another soothing food. 
The cold has a numbing effect, and the creamy texture makes it easy to swallow. This comfort food is also 
great for cheering up young (and not-so-young) patients. With severe sore throats, it is best to avoid 
crunchy or spicy foods. NSAIDs: Although they may be rough on the stomach, NSAIDs are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin), and naproxen (Aleve) are often more effective 
pain relievers than acetaminophen (Tylenol). Pain treatment can help increase fluid intake. Do NOT give aspirin to children since aspirin use when a fever is present may result in Reye's Syndrome . NSAIDS are helpful for treating a fever. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Fever Rest: When it is hard for you to drink, it is important to decrease your body's requirements for 
fluid through rest and lowering any fever. Getting extra sleep can promote more rapid recovery, especially 
if a virus is the cause. Malaise (a general feeling of illness) is the body's cry for rest. Stay home and 
in bed when you are sick. This also help to prevent spreading the illness to others by limiting contact 
with people outside your home. Humidifier or Vaporizer: Use a cool-mist vaporizer or humidifier to moisten and soothe a dry 
and painful throat. Breathing in steam from a humidifier or vaporizer can keep a sore throat moist and cut 
down on pain. Adding moisture to the air prevents your mucous membranes from drying out. This can 
reduce irritation and make it easier to sleep. Be sure to change the water in a room humidifier daily 
and clean the unit at least once every three days to help prevent the growth of harmful molds and bacteria. 
You can get the same result by leaning over a sink with hot running water. Drape a towel over 
your head to trap the steam and breathe deeply. Try this for five to 10 minutes several times a day. Decongestant Nasal Sprays: For adults, if you have a cold and you have a plugged nose or 
fluid draining from your nose that is irritating your throat, you might want consider trying a decongestant 
nasal spray, which can dry up postnasal drip and give your throat some relief. Nasal sprays such as Afrin 
may be used for two to three days to prevent mouth breathing. It is NOT a good idea to use these products 
for more than a couple of days as you may become dependent on them. Other decongestant products, such as 
Sudafed, may be helpful. If you have hypertension or cardiovascular conditions, diabetes mellitus, thyroid 
problems, or an enlarged prostate check with your health care provider before using a nasal spray. Warm Compress: Try placing a warm heating pad against the outside of your throat. Or make your 
own warm compress by wetting a towel with hot water. This may be especially soothing if you have tender 
lymph nodes in the neck. Avoid Pollutants: Avoiding smoke and other air pollutants is important. Smoke irritates a 
sore throat. At least while you are sick, stop smoking and avoid all fumes from household cleaners and 
paint. And do not expose children to secondhand smoke. Rest Your Voice: If your sore throat has affected your voice box (larynx), talking may lead 
to more irritation and temporary loss of your voice (laryngitis). PERSISTENT SORE THROAT If a sore throat lasts over a week or gets worse, check with your health care provider again, even if an 
initial strep test came back negative. It is possible for a throat swab to miss bacteria, and you may 
need to be retested. A persistent sore throat could also be a sign of acid reflux, mononucleosis, or 
another condition. In rare cases, a sexually transmitted disease may be to blame. MONONUCLEOSIS Symptoms caused by mono can last for 4 weeks or more. If you have mono, your health care provider will probably 
suggest that you get plenty of rest and that you not exercise too hard. You can take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin) or naproxen (Aleve) for the headache and other aches. ALLERGIES If a sore throat is a symptom of hay fever or another allergy, your health care provider can help you figure 
out how to avoid the things that trigger your allergies. Or you may need to take medicine for your allergies. SURGICAL TREATMENT Surgical drainage of an abscess behind a tonsil (peritonsillar abscess) or between the spine and 
pharynx (retropharyngeal abscess) is required in rare cases. Tonsillectomy or surgical removal of the 
tonsils is occasionally indicated for tonsillitis that returns often (once a month). Tonsillectomy is a surgery used to remove tonsils. Most people who have tonsillitis do not need a 
tonsillectomy. You might need a tonsillectomy if you get severe tonsillitis a lot or if your tonsils 
are too large and cause problems with your breathing. Your health care provider can tell you if a 
tonsillectomy is needed. FOLLOW-UP CARE As with other illness, you should contact your health care provider if you become more ill despite 
treatment. Sometimes, determining whether a condition became worse because of the natural course of 
the illness or because of a side effect of the medication you are taking can be difficult. (For example, 
both the infection causing a sore throat and a reaction to medication can cause nausea.) PROGNOSIS (OUTLOOK) Most sore throats go away with or without treatment. Although rare, complications of strep throat such 
as rheumatic fever, post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, and epiglottitis can cause serious illness 
or death. When you dread every swallow, however, any treatment that gives relief is looked upon 
with great favor. HOLISTIC RECOMMENDATIONS While it may be difficult to prevent sore throats altogether, some precautions may help reduce their incidence. 
Boost your immune system through a diet rich in vitamins and minerals, and consider taking supplements. Try to 
keep your living and working environments humid and breathe through your nose so the air that flows to your larynx 
is moist. Breathing in through your nose will also allow the fine hairs in your nose to filter out harmful 
substances. If you frequently suffer from scratchy throat and are prone to hoarseness, avoid speaking loudly, 
smoky rooms, and chemical fumes along with extreme temperatures. Natural plant remedies, inhaled or used 
in gargle form, can provide quick relief. CONSIDERATIONS Sore throats are common. Most of the time the soreness is worse in the morning and improves as 
the day progresses. Like colds, the vast majority of sore throats are caused by viral infections. This means most sore throats 
will NOT respond to antibiotics. Many people have a mild sore throat at the beginning of every cold. 
When the nose or sinuses become infected, drainage can run down the back of the throat and irritate it, 
especially at night. Or, the throat itself can be infected. Some viruses can cause specific types of sore throat. For example, Coxsackievirus sometimes causes blisters 
in the throat, especially in the late summer and early fall. Mononucleosis and the flu can also cause 
specific viral throat infections. If a sore throat recurs or lasts for longer than 2 weeks, you may have an 
underlying illness such as mononucleosis. Strep throat is the most common bacterial cause of sore throat. Because strep throat can occasionally 
lead to rheumatic fever, antibiotics are given. Strep throat often includes a fever (greater than 101°F), 
white, draining patches on the throat, and swollen or tender lymph glands in the neck. Children may 
have a headache and stomach pain. Many sore throats and infections are contracted from bacteria on toothbrushes. Toothbrushes should be 
replaced once monthly and after any type of infectious illness. Between uses, store your toothbrush in hydrogen 
peroxide or grapefruit seed extract to kill germs (if you use hydrogen peroxide, rinse the toothbrush well before 
brushing). A sore throat is less likely to be strep throat if it is a minor part of a typical cold (with runny nose, 
stuffy ears, cough, and similar symptoms). Strep can NOT be accurately diagnosed by looking at the 
throat alone. It requires a laboratory test. Sometimes breathing through the mouth will cause a sore throat in the absence of any infection. Breathing 
dry air can sometimes worsen the soreness. During the months of dry winter air, some people will wake up 
with a sore throat most mornings. This usually disappears after having something to drink. A humidifier or 
vaporizer can help by adding moisture to the air. A constant tickle or chronic irritating cough can be an indication of food allergies. Allergies (allergic 
rhinitis) can cause a sore throat. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Allergies NUTRITIONAL & DIETARY RECOMMENDATIONS Be sure to cook all your food until it is tender. Roasting and steaming are good methods of cooking to 
retain moisture. Cut your food into very small pieces or grind or puree it. This will cause less irritation to the throat. 
Be sure to chew your food well before swallowing. Use frozen popsicles, ice cream, yogurt, and sherbet to soothe a sore throat. Avoid eating foods that are spicy, hot, salty, or acidic. These can be irritating to the throat. If you are having an especially difficult time swallowing and are not able to get the proper intake of 
nutrients, try drinking and instant breakfast drink or liquid nutritional supplement (such as Ensure). If your health care provider prescribes antibiotics for a bacterial throat infection, eat yogurt and 
take an acidophilus supplement to replace the "friendly" bacteria in your digestive tract. Do not take the 
acidophilus at the same time as the antibiotic, however. Take a liquid vitamin C supplement. You can purchase a liquid form of this vitamin or make it yourself 
by dissolving vitamin C powder in water or juice. This is good to sip throughout the day. Allow it to drip 
down the throat slowly. Avoid cow's milk products, sugar and refined wheat foods, since they promote mucus formation. Drink a lot of fresh Pineapple Juice, possibly hot. You can even gargle the juice before swallowing. 
Fresh pineapple has Bromelain, a natural enzyme good for a healthy body. Mix a cup of hot water with a spoonful of Honey and with the juice of half a lemon. Drink it several times a day. Drink 4-6 glasses of water each day. Drink plenty of liquids. Fresh juices are best. If you can drink citrus juice, drink plenty diluted with water
so they do not irritate the sore throat. MoonDragon's Nutrition Therapy: Juicing HERBAL & HOME REMEDIES FOR SORE THROAT Bee Pollen , Blackberry , Calendula , and Cayenne all have been known to soothe or heal a sore throat. Catnip tea enemas help to reduce fever. Warm catnip tea is soothing for children and adults to drink. Catnip 
works as a mild sedative and allows the patient to get some rest while recovering. MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Enemas MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Catnip Enema Echinacea and Goldenseal fight bacterial and viral infection. Fenugreek used as a gargle can relieve a sore throat and reduce the pain of swollen glands. Add 20 drops of 
extract to 1 cup of water and gargle with the mixture 3 times daily. Lungwort soothes throat irritation. Licorice soothes a sore, hoarse throat. The herb licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) is a common ingredient 
in herbal teas for sore throat, such as the herbal tea products Throat Coat (Traditional Medicinals) 
and Throat Comfort (Yogi Teas). Although licorice has not been associated with adverse effects when used 
for ten days or less, excessive longer-term use may result in side effects such as high blood pressure, 
swelling, and headaches. There is some evidence that licorice may lower testosterone in men. When used in 
high doses, licorice may even cause heart failure and a muscle disorder called rhabdomyolysis. People with 
high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, breast cancer, liver disease, or kidney disease, or those 
who are taking certain drugs such as digoxin, thiazide or loop diuretics, or corticosteroids should not 
use licorice. Licorice should not be taken by pregnant or nursing women and children. Slippery Elm is very soothing for a painful, scratchy sore throat and for mouth irritation. 
Slippery Elm was once a popular drugstore remedy for sore throats in North America. The 
herb was listed in the United States Pharmacopeia, a compendium of drug standards, until 1960. A member 
of the elm family, the slippery elm tree (Ulmus Rubra Muhl) grows primarily in the eastern region of 
North America. For sore throats, herbalists use the inner bark of the tree. The inner bark contains 
mucilage, a gel-like substance that swells when it is mixed with water. The mucilage is thought to coat 
the throat, reduce irritation, and soothe sore throat. Slippery elm is often the primary ingredient in 
herbal sore throat lozenges found in health food stores or in the natural food section of some grocery 
stores and drug stores. A popular brand of slippery elm lozenges is Thayer's. The safety of slippery elm 
in pregnant or nursing women has not been established. Licorice and Slippery Elm can be found in lozenge form. Caution : Do not use licorice on a daily 
basis for more than 7 days in a row. Avoid it if you have high blood pressure. Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges, Cherry Flavor, 24 Lozenges Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges, Tangerine Flavor, 24 Lozenges Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges, Original Flavor, 24 Lozenges Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Lozenges, Dry Mouth, Citrus Flavor, Sugar Free, 100 Lozenges MONEY SAVER Make your own throat lozenges with Slippery Elm Powder and Licorice Extract Tincture . Stir in enough extract into 1/4 cup of Slippery Elm Powder to create a sticky 
dough. Roll the dough into little round balls or flatten into wafers and let them air dry for 2 days. Wrap in 
plastic and store in an airtight container for use as needed. Marshmallow root tea soothes a scratchy, itchy throat. Marshmallow, a herb that grows in North 
America and Europe, has been used for centuries as a sore throat remedy. Like slippery elm, marshmallow 
contains mucilage, which is thought to coat and soothe sore throats. Herbalists recommend marshmallow 
root tea for sore throats. It is usually made by adding one tablespoon of the dried root to a cup 
(8 ounces) of boiling water, steeping it covered for at least 10 minutes, and then straining. Herbalists 
usually suggest drinking up to three cups a day. Consult a health care provider before taking marshmallow 
if you have diabetes, as it may make your blood sugar too low especially when combined with diabetes 
medication. Marshmallow may also slow the absorption of other drugs taken at the same time. Marshmallow 
should not be taken by pregnant or nursing women. Place 1/2 dropperful of alcohol-free Goldenseal Extract in your mouth and swish it around for
a few minutes before swallowing. Do this every three hours for three days. Alternating
Echinacea with Goldenseal works wonders. For an infant, put the extract in formula or expressed
breast milk, or in fruit-flavored sugar-free yogurt. Caution : Do not take goldenseal on
a daily basis for more than one week at a time, and do not use it during pregnancy. If you have
a history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or glaucoma, use it only under a health care
provider's supervision. Herbal Remedies: Goldenseal Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Herbal Remedies: Echinacea & Goldenseal Tincture, 100% Organic, Nature's Way, Alcohol Free, 1 fl. oz. Herbal Remedies: Echinacea Tincture For Children, Orange Flavor, Alcohol Free, 100% Organic, 1 fl. oz. Astragalus is an old Chinese remedy. Used as a tonic, it strengthens the body's resistance to disease. Herbal Remedies: Astragalus Root Supplements & Products Red Raspberry Leaf tea is good for easing the pain of a sore throat as well as fever blisters. Hot Mullein poultices are soothing to sore throats. MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Poultices Olive Leaf extract has been found to be a good remedy for a sore throat. It helps the body to fight 
infection. Herbal Remedies: Olive Leaf Extract Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Singer's Saving Grace from Herbs, Etc., is a soothing throat spray that contains a combination of several 
herbs, including Echinacea, Licorice, and Ginger. Cayenne Gargle . Warm up some water in your microwave. Make it hot, but not so hot that it is going 
to burn your mouth. Add a pinch of salt and a teaspoon of Cayenne powder to your cup of water. Gargle the 
mixture for about 30 seconds at a time. There is no need to swallow the mixture (but you can if you want, it 
is healthy and has many nutrients for fighting infection). It is best to gargle the mixture on and off 
over a period of about an hour. Be careful not to burn your mouth with water that is too hot Gargle with Raspberry Leaf tea. Raspberry leaf tea can make a great gargle. (To make, pour 1 cup boiling water over 
2 teaspoons dried leaves. Steep for ten minutes, then strain. Allow to cool.) If you also have a fever, the 
gargle can be used as a fever-reducing drink, too. Do not drink any liquid you have used as a gargle. Drink 
remaining liquid left over after gargling for the health benefits. Drink Apple Cider Vinegar . This sore throat cure is found in several different remedies. Here are a 
few of the more popular ones: For sipping: Mix 1 tablespoon each of Honey and Cider Vinegar in 1 cup warm water. For gargling: You will need 1 teaspoon salt, 1/2 cup Cider Vinegar , 
and 1 cup warm water. Dissolve the salt in the vinegar, then mix in the water. Gargle every 15 minutes 
as necessary. Make a horseradish cocktail. Try this Russian sore-throat cure. Combine 1 tablespoon pure horseradish or 
horseradish root with 1 teaspoon Honey and 1 teaspoon ground Cloves . Mix in a glass of warm water and drink slowly. Sip lemon juice. Mix 1 tablespoon each of Honey and lemon juice in 1 cup warm water. Sip this mixture. Drink lime juice. Combine 1 spoonful with a spoonful of honey and take as often as needed for a sore throat. Gargle with warm salt water. If you can gargle without gagging, make a saline solution by adding 
1/2 teaspoon salt to a cup of very warm water. Yes, when your mother told you to gargle with salt water, 
she knew what she was talking about. It cuts phlegm and reduces inflammation. Dissolve 1/2 teaspoon salt 
in 1/2 to 1 cup warm water, and gargle every three to four hours. DISINFECTANT GARGLES For a basic Honey and Vinegar Gargle, dissolve 1 teaspoon of honey and 1 tablespoon of cider vinegar in a glass of warm water, 
and gargle with this mixture several times daily. Gargle with a tea made from Sage and Myrrh when there are swollen membranes and excess mucus. These herbs are antibiotic and astringent. Cloves prepared as a tea have an anesthetic effect and may be used to ease pain. Eat a frozen juice bar. This is cold and soothing to a hot throat. You can make your own frozen juice bars using 
an ice cube tray or small paper cups. You can use heavy toothpicks or popsicle sticks if you want to have something 
to pick it up by or simple put in a cup and pop one in your mouth to melt in your mouth. Do not suck, though. 
Sucking may irritate the throat even more. Simply let small pieces melt in your mouth. Drink hot liquids. Especially if you are not good at gargling, drink hot fluids, such as herbal teas, or 
hot lemonade. Coating the tissue in your throat with warm liquid provides a benefit similar to applying 
hot packs to infected skin. (And sipping hot tea is more pleasant than trying to swallow a hot pack.) Suck on hard candy. Think of a sore throat as an excuse to indulge your sweet tooth, since some health 
care providers say that sugar can help soothe a sore throat, as well as the ticklish cough that may come 
with it. If nothing else, sucking on hard candy (sugar-free variety) can help keep your mouth and throat 
moist, which will make you feel more comfortable. Do not give hard candy to small children since there is a 
choking hazard. Cinnamon or peppermint candy is flavorable. Herbal cough drops made from Eucalyptus can be 
used in place of hard candy. Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Lozenges, Dry Mouth, Citrus Flavor, Sugar Free, 100 Lozenges Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Dry Mouth Spray, Citrus, Sugar Free, 4 fl. oz. Herbal Remedies: Thayer's Dry Mouth Spray, Menthol, Sugar Free, 4 fl. oz. SOOTHING VAPORS Chamomile , Oregano and Thyme have antimicrobial, antispasmodic and expectorant properties. Their volatile oils, which also lend 
these plants their characteristic aromas, have a direct effect on the mucous membranes when their vapors are 
inhaled. Mix the dry herbs in equal parts, and pour 1 quart of hot water over 1/2 cup of the blend. Cover your 
head with a towel and bend over it. Inhale the vapors for 15 minutes; inhale first through the nose to decongest 
the sinuses, and then through the mouth to ease the throat, tonsils and lungs. If you prefer, you can use essential 
oils instead of the dried herbs. A drop or two of the oils in the hot water will have the same effect. Chamomile Essential Oil Oregano Essential Oil Thyme Essential Oil One old-fashioned remedy for a cold or sore throat is a steam tent. This is done by sitting with your 
face over a bowl of steaming hot water and your head covered with a towel to keep the steam in. Adding 1 
to 2 drops eucalyptus oil can be soothing. While it is easy to dismiss such a simple measure as an 
old wives' tale, several scientific studies have shown that steaming can actually shorten the duration 
of a throat infection. MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Steam Inhalation Therapy Keep your fluid intake high. Drink as much fluid as possible - at least eight to ten 8-ounce glasses 
per day. Keeping your throat well lubricated with soothing liquids can prevent it from becoming dry 
and irritated and may even help banish the infection faster. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Dehydration An Amish Garlic remedy can treat or prevent sore throats. Peel a fresh clove, slice it in half, and 
place 1 piece in each cheek. Suck on the garlic like a cough drop. Occasionally, crush your teeth against 
the garlic, not to bite it in half, but to release its allicin, a chemical that can kill the bacteria that 
causes strep throat. If you like garlic, you can eat two raw cloves each day without anything or chop finely 
and add to hot soup just before serving. Another possibility is to crush one clove of raw garlic and add 
2 teaspoons of honey and fresh squeezed lemon juice. Take from the mixture 1 teaspoon several times a day. Make a Marjoram drink. Make a soothing tea with a spoonful of Marjoram steeped in a cup of boiling water 
for ten minutes. Strain, then sweeten to taste with Honey . Gargle with Sage . This curative herb is a great sore-throat gargle. Mix 1 teaspoon in 1 cup boiling water. Steep for 
ten minutes, then strain. Add 1 teaspoon each Cider Vinegar and Honey , then gargle four times a day. There is some evidence that a throat spray made from the herb 
sage can help to reduce sore throat. A randomized controlled trial compared the effectiveness of a 15 percent 
Sage (Salvia officinalis) throat spray to a placebo in patients with sore throat. The spray was significantly 
more effective than the placebo in reducing throat pain. Symptomatic relief occurred within the first two hours 
after the first administration. Gargle with Turmeric . Try this gargle to calm a cranky throat. Mix together 1 cup hot water, 1/2 teaspoon Turmeric, 
and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Gargle with the mixture twice a day. If you are not good with the gargle, mix 1/2 
teaspoon Turmeric in 1 cup hot milk and drink. Turmeric stains clothing, so be careful when mixing and gargling. Gargle with Listerine. Another good gargling fluid is Listerine mouthwash. If you share the product 
with anyone else in your household, do not drink straight from the bottle; instead, pour a small amount 
into a cup (and do not share that, either). Analgesic sprays, such as Chloraseptic, may be effective in temporarily relieving sore-throat pain. 
The only problem is that the effect does not last long. You may have to spray several times an hour. 
However, the sprays will not harm you and may take the edge off an extremely painful throat. When treating a sore throat, avoid the colas and scratchy foods, such as chips and pretzels. 
They will irritate an already irritated throat. Wrapping the throat loosely with a cold cloth will cause the body to send more blood to the neck in attempt 
to warm the region. Bringing more blood to the throat speeds healing by delivering more oxygen, more white blood 
cells and antibodies, as well as speeding the removal of wastes, mucus and tissue debris. A cold compress can be 
made by wetting a hand towel with water, wring out until damp and fold lengthwise. Place inside a plastic bag 
(such as a small trash bag) long enough for the length of the towel to lie flat and tie off the bag. This bag 
with the towel can be placed in the freezer until very cold. Remove from the freezer and place the bag-towel 
compress around the neck. When it warms up, it can be replaced back into the freezer to re-chill again. An Old-Fashioned Sore-Throat Tonic: The following was extracted from a book of home remedies published 
more than 130 years ago. Some health care providers still swear that it is surprisingly palatable and 
works wonders. (Do not give it, or any other honey-containing food or beverage, to children under two 
years of age. Honey can carry a bacterium that can cause a kind of food poisoning called infant botulism 
and may also cause allergic reactions in very young children.) 1 tablespoon Honey , any kind. 1 tablespoon Apple Cider vinegar . 8 ounces hot water. Mix all the ingredients together in a mug and sip slowly (but do not let it get cold). Use as often as desired. There are loads of gargle recipes, but they have a few common ingredients like: Cayenne Pepper . Lemon. Vinegar . Sea salt . Honey . Hot and Spicy Gargle: The most amazing and effective treatment is using 5 shakes of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) Powder in a cup of hot water (or herbal tea or saline solution or lemon juice) and 
gargle every 15 minutes with the spicy elixir. May swallow each time a tiny bit. Gargling with cayenne can 
cause a strong burning sensation of lips and tongue. Therefore is good keeping milk or yogurt in your mouth 
after gargling until the burning disappears. If you do not have Cayenne Pepper , use 10-20 drops of Tabasco sauce in a glass of warm water, the effect will be the same. Tabasco 
sauce is made from Cayenne Pepper, vinegar and salt. If you do not have access to Cayenne or Tabasco, Chili Peppers , 
hot Paprika or White Pepper are similarly useful. All this pungent spices contain capsaicin, which dulls the pain and has anti-viral properties. Ginger (Zingiber officinalis) tea is also a good choice. Simmer 10 grams grated fresh ginger root or ginger powder 
in a cup of water for ten minutes. Strain and give optionally fresh lemon juice and/or Honey and/or 
a pinch of Cayenne Pepper . Use as a gargle every 30 minutes. Caution: Cayenne pepper is a natural blood 
thinner, do not take it before surgery or dental treatment. If you can not stand hot stuff, Vinegar or other acidic substances (like lemon) are nearly as effective 
as pungent gargles. The strong acidic pH kills germs, so it is a good sore throat remedy. Acidic Gargle: Hot vinegar like Apple Cider Vinegar or Pickle Juice (brine from a jar of pickles) bring immediate relief and soothe 
within the first few sips. They are really great remedies! Add 2 tablespoons of Apple Cider Vinegar to 
a cup of hot water and gargle and drink it as hot as possible. Or heat up the pickle juice, like hot 
tea, sip it and/or gargle. The traditional way is using fresh lemon for sore throat, just suck on a lemon or gargle with freshly 
pressed lemon juice diluted with an equal amount of warm water. You may eat freshly squeezed lime juice 
mixed with equal amount of honey . Caution : vinegar and lemon are strong acidic substances and can damage teeth enamel. 
Please rinse your mouth with water, after gargling. Lemon juice dries up the throat, do not use it, if 
you have a dry throat irritation. Sometimes the germs in your throat are acid-resistant and the infection does not improve from vinegar. 
You may use a strong alkaline solution to kill viruses and bacteriums, since they are rarely alkaline-resistant. Alkaline Gargle: Using Potassium Carbonate or if you do not have it, Sodium Bicarbonate (baking soda) 
solution will bring amelioration. Add 1/2 teaspoon of Potassium Carbonate (or baking soda) to a glass of 
warm water. Gargle every 30 minutes. The most common sore throat remedy is the old fashioned salt water gargle, but additional 
ingredients (e.g. cayenne pepper or crushed garlic) can be added to the basic saline solution. It is a mild 
antiseptic and draws water out of mucus membranes, so it reduces swelling and helps to clear phlegm. Herbal Gargle: The best sore throat remedy is Slippery Elm (Ulmus rubra) bark or Marshmallow (Althaea officinalis) root. They contain mucilage that coat the throat, ease soreness and 
calm inflammation. To make a tea, mix 2 teaspoons of the dried root or bark in two cups of water, bring 
to boil and simmer gently for 10-15 minutes, strain and gargle/drink every hour. A traditional recipe is to simmer 1 teaspoon Marshmallow root and 1 teaspoon chopped fresh Ginger root in 250 ml water for 10 minutes in a covered pot. Remove from the heat, cover and steep 
for additional 10 minutes. Strain, add Honey and/or lemon and/or 1/2 teaspoon of salt and gargle every 30 minutes if helps. GENTLE HERBAL GARGLES FOR RELIEF An effective gargle for sore throats may be made from Eucalpytus tea, rich in anti-inflammatory tannins that reduce swelling and mucus. Boil 2 teaspoons of the 
powdered her in 1 cup of water, and then let the decoction steep for 15 minutes. Pour it through a sieve and 
gargle with the warm tea every hour. Tormentil , also known as Cinquefoil (Potentilla Erecta) can remedy a sore throat, too. Gargle with a tincture of Tormentil every few hours. A tincture is easily made by adding 4 ounces of dried herb to 
a glass bottle, cover with 100 proof vodka and seal the jar tightly. Put into a dark place and shake the bottle 
daily for 6 weeks. Strain and bottle into an eyedropper bottle. Average dose is 12 drops of tincture. Making Herbal Tinctures A lovely old folk remedy is Baked Lemon with Olive Oil. Take one lemon and poke some holes with a fork, 
put it in the oven (300-340°F) and bake it until juice bubbles out the holes. Cool and squeeze the 
lemon put the juice in a jar and add equal amount of Olive Oil and some Honey . Shake well! Take a small spoonful now and again as needed. A very nice old home remedy is Layered Onion with Honey . Layer slices of onion or turnip with honey (or sugar) in a dish and leave overnight. Next morning 
pour off the liquid in a jar and take it sometimes as a lozenge for sore throat. (It is an excellent cough 
syrup as well). Tomato or Vegetable Cayenne Cocktail: This concoction uses a HUGE amount of cayenne pepper to, 
essentially, "nuke" and numb out the inflamed tissues of your throat.  It absolutely works, and FAST.  
It is hot, but it makes the sore throat pain go away as well as kicking any infection in the seat of the 
pants as well with its curative powers and speeds recovery from the illness by killing off the virus. I use 
this whenever I feel I am coming down with a cold or the flu and it is very nice for sore irritated throats. 
I really enjoy this beverage and drink plenty of it since I find it quite soothing. A healthy dose of fresh 
garlic can be added to it for an extra punch since garlic is also known to have anti-viral effects. CAYENNE PEPPER TOMATO TEA SORE THROAT CURE RECIPE 1 Large Can Tomato Juice, V-8 or Vegetable Juice or even Tomato Sauce or Soup can work. water to thin, if desired to preferred consistency (I do not use water, I like my juice as is) 2 Large cloves garlic, minced fine 1 Teaspoon ground cayenne Pepper Optional: a splash of Lemon Juice (fresh) Place all ingredients in a saucepan and heat through to hot soup drinkable temperature. Sip the mixture, 
inhaling the fragrance of the garlic.  Enjoy the feeling of the pepper as it "burns away" the pain, numbing 
it out and killing the virus! This will works well at cleaning your sinuses too and warms your tummy. ALTERNATE GARGLE METHOD: If you only have  cayenne pepper on hand, you can make a simple gargle of a cup of water and a teaspoon 
of cayenne pepper (or as much as you can stand). Stir the water to keep the pepper afloat while you 
gargle with it a few times.  Not nearly as pleasant or tasty, but effective in removing the pain. Gargle with warm sea salt and water. Table salt tends to irritate the throat. Use just one 
teaspoon of sea salt . Then drink Chamomile tea with a teaspoon of raw Honey . Make sure it says pure raw honey, Manuka Honey is really great. Most honey found in the grocery 
store contains a lot of corn syrup with very little honey. Take Tylenol or Advil and very soon you should 
feel like new. Concoct an herbal cure. Infuse a glass of water with natural antiviral vegetables and herbs, such as Garlic , fresh Ginger slices, Basil , 
green onion and Cinnamon , to ward away cold symptoms. For a cough or sore throat, chew a garlic clove. Raw garlic, which has both an antiviral and 
immune-stimulating effect on the body, may actually clear infection. If raw garlic is too strong for 
your taste, try popping it in the microwave briefly before ingesting. Honeysuckle Flower is an herb that taste as sweet as it smells (and sounds), honeysuckle flower is 
one of the most commonly used sore throat remedies in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Honeysuckle 
flowers are not as easy to find as slippery elm and marshmallow. Health food stores occasionally carry it, 
but it is primarily sold in Chinese herbal stores. Practitioners of traditional Chinese medicine often 
recommend making honeysuckle tea by bringing one quart of water to a boil using this method: add one cup 
of honeysuckle flowers (not the leaves), steep for at least 10 minutes, covered, and then strain. Up to 
four cups a day are typically recommended. Ginger tea has a spicy, invigorating taste. It is used as a home remedy for indigestion, nausea, and 
to ward off colds, flu, and sore throats. Ginger tea is very easy to make. Here is a recipe for you to try.
Take 4 cups of water and a 2 inch piece of fresh ginger root. You can add honey and a lemon slice to the 
tea, if desired. Peel the ginger root and slice it into thin slices. Bring the water to a boil in a 
saucepan. Once it is boiling, add the ginger. Cover it and reduce to a simmer for 15-20 minutes. Strain 
the tea. Add honey and lemon to taste. Note: Keep in mind that if you are making ginger tea as a 
home remedy during cold and flu season, sweeteners are not recommended. Take alcohol-free Echinacea Extract by mouth; this will generally end an infection if you catch if early. HOMEOPATHIC REMEDIES This is a very effective and well-proved remedy combination for the beginning of a strep throat or a 
really severe sore throat. Take 3 pills of each, dissolving under your tongue, alternately every 2-3 hours 
for 1 day. Hepar sulphuris 12C Belladonna 30C (Do not eat 5 minutes before and after taking the sore throat remedy.) Stop taking the next day if it does 
not help, and visit a homeopath or health care provider. If you notice marked improvement take the remedies 
3 days more but less frequent. Because dosage recommendations vary from case to case, consult a homeopath for administration suggestions, including 
how often to take the remedy. Acontium: For a dry mouth an throat, shivering and fever. Belladonna: For an extremely red, dry throat lining, for difficulty swallowing, for painful tonsils, and for 
convulsive hacking coughs. Bromium: For a scratchy sore throat and for difficulty breathing. Spongia: For hoarseness. Homeopathic Laboratories: Homeopathic Products ESSENTIAL OILS Increasingly popular is Wild Oregano (Origanum vulgare) Essential Oil is a very effective sore throat remedy. 
Soak a cotton swab in oil of Oregano and dab it directly on the inflamed area. You may gargle with 2-3 
drops of Oregano oil in some hot water as well. Your sore throat will be gone in less then an hour. Besides using gargles a fine, oil external throat massage can speed up the healing process. Add 2 drops 
each of Thyme (Thymus vulgaris) , Sandalwood (Santalum album) ,  and Myrrh (Commiphora molmol) Essential oils to 1 tablespoon of Olive Oil and massage the external neck area. Wrap a warm scarf around the neck afterwards. For a stubborn cough, also try sniffing Eucalyptus Essential Oil, which naturally clears mucus. MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Using A Poultice MoonDragon's Health Therapy: Herbal Poultices Index - Recipes NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENTS Unless otherwise specified, the following recommended doses are for adults over the age of 18. For a 
child between 12 and 17 years, reduce the dose to 3/4 the recommended dose. For a child between 6 and 
12 years old, use 1/2 the recommended dose, and for a child under 6, use 1/4 the recommended dose. NUTRIENTS Supplement Suggested Dosage Comments Helpful Acidophilus Or Kyo-Dophilus As directed on label. Take on an empty stomach for easier access into
the small intestine. Helps to replenish and maintain healthy intestinal flora by replacing 
"friendly" bacteria, especially if antibiotics are prescribed. Use a non-dairy formula. Acidophilus Supplement Powder, Non Dairy, 3 oz. Bulk , Acidophilus, 3 Billion, NOW Foods, 90 Tabs , Lactobacillus Acidophilus Supplement, Non Dairy, 100 Caps , Lactobacillus Acidophilus, Kosher Liquid, All Natural, Vegetarian Medium, Lactose Free, Apple Strawberry Flavor, Dynamic Health, 16 fl. oz. , AE Mulsion Forte (Biotics) As directed on label, to supply 50,000 IU vitamin A and 600 IU vitamin E daily. For adults. Aids in controlling the infection. Bee Propolis As directed on label. Protects mucous membranes of the mouth and throat. Caution: Do not use 
if you are allergic to bee stings. Bee Propolis Extract, NOW Foods, 500 mg, 100 Caps , Bee Propolis, Lemon Honey Flavor, Made in New Zealand, 12 High Potency Lozenges , Bee Propolis & Tea Tree Oil Toothpaste, All Natural, Made in New Zealand, 3.5 oz. , Bee Propolis, Original Flavor, Made in New Zealand, 12 High Potency Lozenges Colloidal Silver As directed on label. Gargle with it before swallowing. A powerful, natural antibiotic with no known side effects. Colloidal Silver, Trace Minerals, 8 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver Liquid, SilvaSolution, 10 ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver Liquid, SilvaSolution, Super Strength Pro 50, 8 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver, Silva Pro Spray, 2 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver Pump Spray, SilvaSolution, 2 fl. oz. Garlic (Kyolic) 2 tablets 3 times daily, with meals. Acts as a natural antibiotic and for improved immune function. Garlic Oil Tincture, Alcohol Free, Nature's Way, 1 fl. oz. , Garlic Bulb Cloves, Garlic Supplement, Nature's Way, 580 mg, 100 Caps , Odorless Garlic Supplement, NOW Foods, 50 mg, 250 SoftGels , Garlic Supplement, Kwai, Triple Concentrated, 180 Tabs , Every Day Garlic Supplement, Kwai, 30 Tabs , Garlic Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. , Aged Garlic Extract, Cardiovascular Formula 100, Wakunaga Kyolic Supplements, 300 Caps , Kyolic Liquid Aged Garlic Extract, Cardiovascular, Vegetarian, Wakunaga Kyolic, 4 fl. oz. , Kyolic Aged Garlic Extract, One-A-Day, Vegetarian, 1000 mg, Wakunaga Kyolic, 30 Caps , Aged Garlic Extract, Cholesterol Formula 104, Wakunaga Kyolic, 200 Caps Kyo-Green (Wakunaga) As directed on label. Contains live enzymes, amino acids, vitamins, minerals, and chlorophyll for 
healing. Or Green Superfood Supplements As directed on label. Contains chlorophyll, vitamins, minerals, enzymes, fiber and amino acids and 
other important nutrients for healing. Super Green Energy Food, Superfood Supplement, Nature's Secret, 300 Tabs , Barlean's Greens Superfood Supplement, 120 Caps , Barlean's Greens Superfood Supplement, 9.3 oz. , Alive! Whole Food Energizer, Nature's Way, 90 Tabs , Green Phyto Foods, Vegetarian Powder, NOW Foods, 10 oz. , Super Veggie Powder, Truman's Best, 3.5 oz. , Spirulina Green Blends, Cleansing Formula Powder, 7.4 oz. , ProGreens Powder With Advanced Probiotic, Allergy Research Group / Nutricology, 9.3 oz. , Chlorella Powder, 4 oz. Bulk. , Chlorella Powder, 100% Pure, NOW Foods, 4 oz. Maitake Or Shiitake Or Reishi As directed on label. As directed on label. As directed on label. To boost immunity and fight viral infection. Three Mushroom Tincture, Red Reishi, Shiitake & Maitake Mushroom Extract, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. , Red Reishi Mushroom Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. , Shiitake Mushroom Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. , Maitake Mushroom Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. , Reishi Mushroom, Whole, 100% Organic, 4 oz. , Shiitake Mushroom, Whole, 100% Organic, 4 oz. , Maitake Mushroom, Whole, 100% Organic, 4 oz. Multi-Vitamin Complex As directed on label. All nutrients are needed in balance for healing and for immune response. Multi-Vitamin With Minerals, Hi-Tech, 90 Caps , Liquid Multi-Vitamin & Mineral Complex With Trace Minerals, Orange Mango, 32 fl. oz. , Liquid Multi-Vitamin & Mineral, Strawberry-Raspberry, Trace Minerals, 32 fl. oz. , Multi-Vitamin Mineral Complete, Trace Minerals, 120 Tabs , Maxi Multi-Vitamin With Trace Minerals Liquid, 32 fl. oz. , Alive! Whole Food Energizer, Liquid Multi-Vitamin, Trace Minerals, Citrus Flavor, Nature's Way, 30 oz. , Super Multi-Vitamin & Multi-Mineral, Pure Vital Earth, 32 fl. oz. (98% Bio-Available 
for Absorption) , Damage Control Master Formula, High Potency, Multi-Vitamin & Mineral, 60 Packets (30 Day Supply) Vitamin A Emulsion: 100,000 IU daily for 1 weeks, then 50,000 IU daily for 
1 weeks, then reduce to 25,000 IU daily. Capsules: 25,000 IU daily for 1 weeks, then reduce to 10,000 IU daily. If you are pregnant, do not exceed 10,000 IU daily. Helps heal the inflamed mucous membranes and aids healing and strengthens 
the immune system. Emulsion form is recommended for easier assimilation and greater safety at high doses. Vitamin A, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 10,000 IU, 100 SoftGels , Dry Vitamin A & D, Nature's Way, 15,000 IU / 400 IU, 100 Caps Vitamin A, Fish Liver Oil, NOW Foods, 25,000 IU, 250 SoftGels Plus Natural Beta-Carotene With Carotenoid Complex (Betatene) As directed on label. Provides important antioxidant protection. Enhances immunity. Beta Carotene (Natural Dunaliella Salina), Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 25,000 IU, 100 Softgels , Multi-Carotene Antioxidant, Nature's Way, 60 Softgels Or Cod Liver Oil 1 teaspoon daily. For children. A good source of vitamin A. Barlean's Fishery Oil, Fresh Catch Cod Liver Oil, Lemonade Flavor, 8 fl. oz. , Cod Liver Oil, Childlife, Strawberry Flavor, 8 fl. oz. Vitamin C With Bioflavonoids 5,000-20,000 mg daily, in divided doses. See Ascorbic Acid Flush for more information. Boosts immunity and fights infection. Has antiviral properties. Vitamin C Liquid w/ Rose Hips & Bioflavonoids, Kosher, Natural Citrus Flavor, Dynamic Health, 1000 mg, 16 fl. oz. , Ester C With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 1000 mg, 90 Tabs , Vitamin C 1000 With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 VCaps , The Right C, Nature's Way, 1000 mg, 120 Tabs Vitamin E Start with 200 IU daily and increase weekly until you reach 600 IU daily. Enhances immune function, promotes healing and tissue repair. 
Use d-alpha-tocopherol form. Ester E Natural Vitamin E, California Natural, 400 IU, 60 Softgels , Vitamin E, 400 IU, 100% Natural, NOW Foods, 100 Gels , Vitamin E-1000, NOW Foods, 1000 IU, 100 Gels , Vitamin E, d-alpha-tocopherol, 400 IU, 100 Softgels Zinc As directed on label. For pain relief and healing. Quickens and improves immune response. 
Aids in reducing infection. Lozenges are recommended. Zinc Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 100 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Colloidal Silver & Zinc Lozenges, Silva Solution, 90 Lozenges , Zinc Lozenges W/ Echinacea & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 23 mg, 60 Lozenges , Zinc Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 100 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. , Zinc (Chelated), 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 30 mg, 100 Caps SORE THROAT SUPPLEMENTS & PRODUCTS Supplements and products for sore throat, a common ailment characterized by a raw, burning pain in the back of 
the throat. Supplements and products for strep throat, an infection of the back of the throat, tonsils, and/or 
adenoids that is caused by the Streptococcus bacteria. Supplements and products for tonsilitis, an inflammation of 
the tonsils, the glands of lymph tissue located on either sides of the throat. AHCC (Active Hexose Correlated Compound), NOW Foods, Vegetarian, 500 mg, 60 VCaps NOW Foods AHCC is a rich source of polysaccharides such as beta glucan 1,3 and activated hemicellulose 
produced by enzymatic modification of organic medicinal mushrooms, including shiitake. Antibiotic, Natural, Support Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Use this natural antibiotic to support the immune system. Bayberry Root Bark, Nature's Way, 475 mg, 100 Caps Bayberry Root Bark is often used for its astringent properties and can boost the immune system. Bee Propolis Extract, NOW Foods, 500 mg, 100 Caps Bee Propolis Extract is a natural antibiotic used for colds, flu, fever, and digestive disorders. A 
substance collected by honey bees containing phytotonizides is believed to contain immunity factors 
that stimulate the body and gives it a natural resistance to diseases. Bee Propolis, Lemon Honey Flavor, Made in New Zealand, 12 High Potency Lozenges These New Zealand Bee Propolis, Lemon & Honey Lozenges with Manuka Honey, offer a soothing relief from a 
sore or irritated throat. Each package comes with 12 lozenges and a great lemon flavor. Bio Defender, Antibacterial, Antiviral, and Antifungal Formula, Balanceuticals, 56 Caps This unique antibacterial, antiviral and antifungal formula is a clinical nutritionist response to bio terrorism 
such as anthrax. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Echinacea Berry, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed Oil in the form of great tasting herbal throat lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil, Honey and Echinacea, these herbal lozenges are sure to please the taste 
buds of kids & adults alike. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Ginger Drops, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed Oil in the form of great tasting herbal throat lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil, Honey and Ginger, these herbal lozenges are sure to please the taste 
buds of kids & adults alike. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Honey Lemon, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed Oil in the form of great tasting herbal throat lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil, Honey and Lemon, these herbal lozenges are sure to please the taste 
buds of kids & adults alike. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Honey Licorice, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed Oil in the form of great tasting herbal throat lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil, Honey and Licorice, these herbal lozenges are sure to please the taste 
buds of kids & adults alike. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Honey Mint, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed Oil in the form of great tasting herbal throat lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil, Honey and Mint, these herbal lozenges are sure to please the taste 
buds of kids & adults alike. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Orange Vitamin C, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed Oil in the form of great tasting herbal throat lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil, Honey and Orange with Vitamin C, these herbal lozenges are sure to please the taste 
buds of kids & adults alike. Black Seed Theramune Ultimate With Garlic, 100 Caps Promotes healthy circulation, useful for arthritis and cardiovascular & respiratory support. It also 
supports digestion and is a natural remedy for ulcers. Garlic is known to lower cholesterol naturally. Boiron Roxalia Homeopathic Sore Throat Remedy, 60 Tabs Boiron Roxalia Homeopathic Sore Throat Remedy helps relieve your sore throat the natural way. Colds & Flu Homeopathic Remedy, Boericke & Tafel Alpha CF, 40 Tabs Alpha CFO, Colds & Flu Homeopathic Remedy is clinically proven as an all natural cold and flu remedy 
that offers relief for your cold or flu in a great homeopathic remedy! Take it for runny nose, fever, 
chills, stuffy nose and aches. Colloidal Silver, Liquid Silver Homeopathic Formula, SilvaSolution Advanced Immune System Activator for 
Colds and Flu, 8 fl. oz. TriMedica SilvaSolution Advanced Liquid Silver Homeopathic Formula integrates the basic principles of homeopathy 
and is a profound healing system designed to increase the body's ability to respond to immune challenges and 
restore optimal health. Colloidal Silver Pump Spray, SilvaSolution, 2 fl. oz. Colloidal Silver Spray works great to promote throat health, as well as provide immune system support. Echinacea Angustifolia Root Powder, 4 oz. Bulk Echinacea is an excellent herb for all kinds of viral & 
bacterial infections, strengthens the immune system against pathogenic infection by stimulating phagocytosis 
& T-Cell formation, blood cleansing properties, acne, bronchitis, colds & flu, congestion, psoriasis, 
tonsillitis, wounds, ear infections and stimulates the immune system. Echinacea Herb, Nature's Way, 400 mg, 180 Caps Echinacea herb supports the immune system and promotes general well-being in cold and flu season. Echinacea Root Complex, Nature's Way, 180 Caps Echinacea Root Complex helps promote general well-being during the cold and flu season and support the 
Immune System. Echinacea Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Echinacea Root is also known as Purple Coneflower and considered very valuable by North American Indians. Echinacea Tincture For Children, Orange Flavor, Alcohol Free, 100% Organic, 1 fl. oz. ChildLife's great tasting Echinacea can provide extra support at the first sign of colds, flues, sore 
throats, upper respiratory symptoms, sinusitis, and ear infections. Periodic use, especially during the 
winter months, may increase the overall strength of your child's natural defense system. Echinacea With Elderberry & Zinc, Nature's Way, 100 Caps Nature's Way Echinacea with Elderberry and Zinc is a synergistic combination of the latest scientific 
research and traditional herbal medicine to Support the Immune System. Elderberry Herb, Nature's Way, 575 mg, 100 Caps Elderberry herb is popular for health concerns during the winter season. Enzyme Phytonutrient (EPN) Ionic Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 16 fl. oz. WaterOz Ionic EPN is a pure liquid enzyme supplement. EPN complex is a patent-pending enzyme phytonutrient 
from a plant source that provides enzyme and saccharides necessary for optimal cellular communication. 
No combination of vitamins, minerals, amino acids or herbals can replace the necessary saccharides found in EPN. First Defense Homeopathic Formula For Children, 4 fl. oz. A complete and effective natural broad spectrum anti-infective formula available for infants and children. 
Completely safe and non-toxic for infants and children of all ages. A homeopathic Formula. Garlic Oil Tincture, Alcohol Free Nature's Way, 1 fl. oz. Garlic oil is often used to soothe the ear and as an antibiotic but most often used as a food and herb and 
also to lower serum cholesterol and blood pressure and to improve circulation as well as possibly 
inhibiting the growth of ulcer causing bacteria. Get Soothed Herb Tea For Scratchy Throats No. 8, Republic of Tea, 36 Tea Bags Do your throat a favor and try our naturally caffeine-free herbal blend. Fragrant and good-tasting, 
it's based on organic rooibos, the wonder herb known to keep your body's defenses strong. Ginger Tea, 20 Tea Bags Caffeine Free Ginger Tea is used in Chinese medicine to remove toxins, warm the stomach, maintain 
good health, especially in changing weather conditions, and to prevent seasickness. Grapefruit Seed Extract (GSE) Liquid Concentrate, 1 Gallon Grapefruit Seed Extract may be used topically as an antiseptic wound cleaner and to treat infections of the 
skin. Internally, the concentrate is useful as a supportive treatment for a wide variety of ailments. Grapefruit Seed Extract Liquid Concentrate, 2 fl oz. Used Grapefruit Seed Extract topically as an antiseptic wound cleaner and to treat infections of the skin. Grapefruit Seed Extract Liquid Concentrate, 4 fl oz. Grapefruit Seed Extract may be used topically as an antiseptic wound cleaner and to treat infections of 
the skin. Internally, the concentrate is useful as a supportive treatment for a wide variety of ailments. Head & Throat Soother Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags This Caffeine Free tea is an Ideal Drink for the Cold & Flu Season to remove heat and maintain normal 
nasal and respiratory functions and Sooth the Head & Throat. Honey (Pure Manuka Honey UMF 5+), New Zealand, 16 oz. Pure New Zealand Manuka Honey direct from New Zealand. Made from the Manuka flower to produce a honey 
rich in natural taste and healing qualities that are only created from the Manuka. Hyssop Throat Comforts, Natural Herb Comforts, 61 Lozenges Throat Soothers with natural Hyssop can be used to comfort the throat while undergoing ear candling treatments. Kombucha Miracle Fungus, Kombucha Tea Benefit's, By Harald Tietze, Paperback One time best seller, Kombucha Miracle Fungus is all about synergy and Kombucha Tea Benefit's it is an 
easy read for those interested in the synergy Kombucha offers or Kombucha benefit's. Kombucha 2000, Concentrated Kombucha Capsule, 30 Caps Concentrated Kombucha Capsules are new to the market, but Kombucha 2000 is one of the very first successful 
kombucha tea producers in the United States. Manganese Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 30 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. WaterOz Ionic Manganese is a pure liquid Manganese supplement. Manganese, also called the "brain mineral," 
is important in the utilization of all mental facilities/functions. Nature's Antiseptics Tea Tree Oil & Grapefruit Seed Extract, CJ Puotinen, Paperback Nature's Warfare, this book covers tea tree oil and grapefruit see extract use in safely destroying viruses, 
bacteria, molds, yeasts and parasites that want to live in us and on us. Nutribiotic First Aid Skin Spray, With Grapefruit Seed Extract & Tea Tree Oil, 4 fl. oz. Grapefruit Seed Extract acts as a broad spectrum antiseptic and antibiotic. Keeps the wound clean and 
helps to speed healing with Grapefruit Seed Extract & Tea Tree Oil. Nutribiotic Nasal Spray, With Grapefruit Seed Extract, 1 fl. oz. Nasal Spray is useful to aiding many conditions. During allergy season it helps to re-moisturize the 
nasal passages and clean them of dust, dirt, dander and other allergens. The nasal spray is also useful 
during a bout of sinusitis, or inflammation and infection of the sinus passages. Olbas Cough Syrup, 100% Natural, Swiss Made, 4 fl. oz. Olbas natural cough syrup is a pleasant tasting and effective combination of herbal extracts, essential 
oils and wildflower honey. Olbas Pastilles, 100% Natural, Swiss Made, 27 Herbal Cough Drops Olbas pastilles, Herbal Cough Drops, temporarily controls cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritations 
associated with the common cold or inhaled irritants. Olive Leaf Extract Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Olive Leaf extract is used internally, as a laxative and disperser of acids, and is often used in enemas. 
Olive Leaf extract is also used in a poultice, Olive Leaf relieves pruritis and the effects of stings or burns. Pelargonium, Coughs & Chest Ailments, 3 fl. oz. Pelargonium is rich in phytochemicals, vitamins, minerals and amino acids that enhance the body's functioning 
and protects it against diseases. Propolis Throat Spray, 1.05 fl. oz. Propolis Throat Spray combines the antibacterial and anesthetic properties of bee propolis with essential 
oils of aniseed, peppermint, clove and myrrh to provide a refreshing oral hygiene spray and breath freshener. Sage Tincture, 2 fl. oz. Sage is used as a mouthwash and gargle for mouth infections, bleeding gums and sore throats. Sambucus Elderberry & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 30 Lozenges Sambucus Lozenges contain the original formulation of the award winning black elderberry extract. 
Sambucus Black Elderberry extract has been used by millions of people with positive results being 
reported worldwide. Sambucus Immune System Formula With Elderberry & Echinacea, 7.8 fl. oz. Sambucus Immune System Elderberry Formula supports your natural defenses against the Flu, and Colds, 
and is especially popular during the winter season. Sambucus Kid's Formula Elderberry Syrup, Nature's Way, 4 oz. Sambucus for Kids supports the immune system, and is especially popular during the winter season. Black 
elderberry extract has been used by million of people with positive results being reported worldwide. Sambucus Original Black Elderberry Syrup, Nature's Way, 8 fl. oz. Sambucus Black Elderberry is used by millions of people with positive results being reported worldwide, 
Sambucus is especially popular for promoting good health against the Flu and Colds during the winter season. Silver Biotics Liquid, Silver Supplement, 8 fl. oz. Silver Biotics was tested by researchers and was found to kill every strain of bacteria that it was tested 
against and that these bacteria, many of which have become resistant to antibiotics, cause many human ailments. SilverSolution Colloidal Silver & Zinc Lozenges, 90 Lozenges Now you can get powerful liquid silver in the most convenient form ever with new Silva Solution Silver 
and Zinc Lozenges. Sympacho Tea, 20 Tea Bags Sympacho tea is a delicious, all-natural way to reduce inflammation and pain and boost immunity. Tamarind Tango Black Seed Herbal Lozenges, Amazing Herbs, 4 oz., 28 Pieces/Bag Now there is a great new way to enjoy the nutritional benefits of Black Seed in the form of great tasting 
lozenges. Made with pure Black Seed Oil & Honey, they are sure to please the taste buds of kids & 
adults alike. Select from Honey Lemon, Ginger or Echinacea Berry flavors. Tea Tree Oil (Melaleuca Alternifolia), 100% Pure Oil, 2 fl. oz. Tea Tree Oil can be used for general first aid uses such as cuts, burns, abrasions, insect bites, bee 
stings, rashes, impetigo, boils, sinus problems, sore throat, thrush, fingernail and toenail infections. Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges, Cherry, 24 Lozenges Prized By Singers, these gentle Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges are all natural and used for temporary 
relief of minor discomforts and protection of irritated areas in sore mouths and throats. Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges, Original Flavor, 24 Lozenges Prized By Singers, these gentle Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges are all natural and used for temporary 
relief of minor discomforts and protection of irritated areas in sore mouths and throats. Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges, Tangerine, 24 Lozenges Prized By Singers, these gentle Thayer's Slippery Elm Lozenges are all natural and used for temporary 
relief of minor discomforts and protection of irritated areas in sore mouths and throats. Think! Cherry With Gingko Black Seed Herbal Lozenges, Amazing Herbs, 4 oz., 28 Pieces/Bag Now there is a great new way to enjoy Black Seed in the form of great tasting candies and lozenges. 
Made with pure Black Seed Oil & Honey, they're sure to please the taste buds of kids & adults alike. Throat Spray GSE, 4 fl. oz. This natural formulation is designed to promote healthy conditions in the mouth and throat. NutriBiotic 
Throat Spray provides protection from sore throat due to germs. Umcka Cold Care, Original Formula Drops, Nature's Way, 1 fl. oz. Shortens duration and reduces severity of symptoms associated with the common cold and throat, sinus, 
bronchial irritations. Shortens duration & reduces severity of upper respiratory symptoms. Vitamin B-12 Complex Liquid, NOW Foods, 2 fl. oz. Vitamin B-12 Helps to maintain a healthy nervous system, and helps in the prevention of pernicious anemia. 
Folic Acid should be taken by all females of child bearing age to help prevent neuro-tube birth defects. 
Folic acid is also linked to heart health. Vitamin C 1000 With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 VCaps Nature's Way Vitamin C With Bioflavonoids provides antioxidant provides antioxidant protection for many of the 
body's important enzyme systems. Vitamin C Liquid For Baby & Children, 4 fl. oz. Vitamin C is known as a principal anti-oxidant, the need for which is greatly increased in infants and 
children due to today's elevated environmental stresses and pollution. Xylitol Plus Natural Sugar Substitute, NOW Foods, 20 Packets, 4.4 oz. Xylitol Plus Natural Sugar Substitute is derived from fruit, such as strawberries, pears and plums, or 
trees, specifically birchwood. Zinc Lozenges With Echinacea & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 23 mg, 60 Lozenges Nature's Way Zinc lozenge boosts cold season defense with zinc, widely recognized as an important nutritional 
support during the cold season, and echinacea pupurea, clinically shown to support the immune system, and 
Vitamin C, a vitally important vitamin for general health maintenance. Herbal Remedies: Sore Throat Information Herbal Remedies: Sore Throat Supplements & Products Herbal Remedies: Strep Throat / Streptococcus Supplements & Products Herbal Remedies: Tonsilitis / Quinsy Supplements & Products Herbal Remedies: Ear, Nose & Throat For Children Supplements & Products COMMON COLD SUPPLEMENTS & PRODUCTS Information, products and supplements for the common cold which include symptoms like head congestion, 
nasal congestion, sore throat, coughing, headache, sneezing and watery eyes. AHCC (Active Hexose Correlated Compound), NOW Foods, Vegetarian, 500 mg, 60 VCaps NOW Foods AHCC is a rich source of polysaccharides such as beta glucan 1,3 and activated hemicellulose 
produced by enzymatic modification of organic medicinal mushrooms, including shiitake. Alive! Whole Food Energizer Multi-Vitamin With Mineral, Nature's Way, 18 mg of Iron Added, 90 Tabs Nature's Way ALIVE multi vitamin with mineral is better absorbed into your blood stream because its 
tablets disintegrate up to 5X faster than other leading brands. No other supplement contains more 
life-giving nutrients than ALIVE, which is just the way it will make you feel. Alpha SH Homeopathic Sinus Headache & Congestion, Boericke & Tafel, 40 Tabs Alpha SH Homeopathic Sinus Headache & Congestion includes a combination of herbs recommended to 
alleviate minor sinus headaches, shrink nasal membranes, decongest sinus openings, and encourage sinus drainage. Amber Glass Bottle With Nasal Spray Cap (Empty), 1 Bottle, 1/2 oz. Quality amber glass bottle with nasal spray cap, useful for treatment in sinus infections, allergies 
and dry nostrils. Astragalus Extract, Standardized 0.5% Astragalosides, Nature's Way, 60 VCaps Astragalus Extract is standardized to 0.5% astragalosides, one of the most studied components. Bee Pollen Blend, Nature's Way, 580 mg, 180 Caps Nature's Way bee Pollen capsules contain a high quality Bee Pollen blend from Europe and China and 
contains a wide range of nutrients. Bee Propolis Formula Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Bee Propolis, a resin collected from plants by bees and used in the construction of hives, is a medicinal 
marvel of the hive. Research shows it has antiseptic, antibiotic, antibacterial, antifungal, and even 
antiviral properties. Bird Flu Tincture, Alternative Health & Herbs, 2 fl. oz. Elderberry has been used in folk medicine for centuries to treat influenza, colds and sinusitis, and 
has been reported to have antiviral activity against influenza and herpes simplex. Black Elderberry Extract, Premium Quality, Kosher, Dynamic Health, 8 fl. oz. Dynamic Health's Black Elderberry extract is of premium quality and kosher. Black Seed & Honey Herbal Lozenges, Echinacea Berry, 28 Pieces, 4 oz. Enjoy the nutritional benefits of pure Black Seed Oil, Echinacea Berry, Zinc & Honey, these lozenges are 
sure to please the taste buds of kids & adults alike. Select from Honey-Lemon Ginger or Echinacea-Berry flavors. Black Seed Herbal Honey, Energizing, 16 fl. oz. A sensational blend of honey and herbs in three different formulations that offer a natural boost of 
energy, immune support, or relaxation that's great for anyone who wants to enjoy the benefits of Black 
Seed without taking capsules or oil. Black Seed Theramune Ultimate With Garlic, 100 Caps Promotes healthy circulation, useful for arthritis and cardiovascular & respiratory support. It also 
supports digestion and is a natural remedy for ulcers. Garlic is known to lower cholesterol naturally. Breathe Easy Herbal Aromatherapy Face Pillow, Lavender Colored, Dreamtime DreamTime's Breathe Easy Herbal Face Pillow uses select grains, and natural herbs to urge the sinus 
passages to open, promoting relaxed and peaceful breathing. Moist heat and the sinus face pillow's own 
weight produces a delicate acupressure to soothe and alleviate overworked eye and facial muscles. Breathe Easy Herbal Aromatherapy Face Pillow, Sage Green Colored, Dreamtime DreamTime's Breathe Easy Herbal Face Pillow uses select grains, and natural herbs to urge the sinus 
passages to open, promoting relaxed and peaceful breathing. Moist heat and the sinus face pillow's own 
weight produces a delicate acupressure to soothe and alleviate overworked eye and facial muscles. Brigham Tea, Nature's Way, 415 mg, 100 Caps Brigham Tea was used by early settlers for energy and lung ailments. Brigham Tea was also used anciently 
to promote circulation. Bronchitis & Asthma Aide, Homeopathic Asthma Treatment, Boericke & Tafel, 100 Tabs Bronchitis & Asthma Aide, Homeopathic Asthma Treatment, helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin 
bronchial secretions to rid bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and drain bronchial tubes. Calcium Ionic Mineral Supplement, Fully Absorbable, 700 +/- ppm, 16 fl. oz. WaterOz Ionic Calcium is a pure liquid Calcium supplement. Calcium is one of the most essential of the 
major biochemical elements needed in human nutrition. It is needed in every organ of the body, including 
the brain. Calcium is called the "knitter" because it promotes healing or knitting everywhere in the body. 
It is valuable for tone, power, strength, longevity, vitality, and endurance, healing of wounds, 
counter-acting acids, and helping regulate metabolism. Clear Head & Neck Comfort, TCM Formula, 100% Natural, 60 Caps Clear Head & Neck Comfort formula is made of snidium, angelica root, notopterygium rhizome and root, 
asarum, siler, wild mint, schizonepeta and licorice, herbs for headache. Cold Aid, 100 Tabs Research during the past ten years into medicinal plants has shown that herbal medicines offer the 
potential to help the immune system stave of these colds. Cold & Flu Homeopathic Remedy, Boericke & Tafel, Alpha CF, 40 Tabs Alpha CF, Colds & Flu Homeopathic Remedy is clinically proven as an all natural cold and flu remedy 
that offers relief for your cold or flu in a great homeopathic remedy! Take it for runny nose, fever, 
chills, stuffy nose and aches. Cold & Flu Moisture Bath & Shower Gel, Kiss My Face, 16 oz. You don't need to have a cold to be able to enjoy this popular pick-me-up and all-around soother. Kiss 
My Face Cold and Flu Bath and Shower Gel is the perfect day-starter or antidote for those under-the-weather blues. Cold & Flu Tincture, Natural Cold Remedy, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Cold & Flu Tincture, Natural Cold Remedy, is 100% Organic and can be used for colds, flu, infection, 
and influenza. Cold & Sinus Blaster Tincture, Cold Supplement, 2 fl. oz. Cold & Sinus Blaster Tincture, Cold Supplement promotes healthy sinus and respiratory systems. It opens 
the sinuses for easier breathing. Cold Flu Virus Tincture, Elderberry Formula, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. This Herbal Cold Remedy is a combination of elderberry, echinacea and goldenseal is ideal for the cold and flu season. Cold Season Tea, Cold Remedy, Certified Organic, Caffeine Free, 16 Tea Bags This Organic Cold Season tea is a soothing organic herbal tea that is specially formulated for use during 
the cold-weather season. Cold Season Tea Sampler, Yogi Tea, Caffeine Free, Certified Organic, 16 Tea Bags These assorted healing herbal teas from Yogi Tea will assist you in the prevention of common ailments during 
the cold season and bring you balance and harmony in any type of weather. Colloidal Silver & Zinc Lozenges, SilvaSolution, 90 Lozenges Now you can get powerful liquid silver in the most convenient form ever with new SilvaSolution Silver & Zinc Lozenges. Colostrum Chewables, Natural Vanilla Flavor, 480 mg, 90 Chewables Colostrum known for its powerful healing factors offers optimal health. Colostrum research proves a wide 
spectrum of immunoglobulins, antibodies, and accessory immune factors. Colostrum Nature's Gift To The Immune System, Revised & Updated By Beth Ley, Ph.D. Colostrum offers help for: auto-immunity (Arthritis, Multiple Sclerosis, Allergies, Asthma) immune 
deficiency, Cancer, Inflammation, etc. plus offers Growth Factors to benefit Athletes and Body Builders 
(speeds tissue healing). Comfrey Leaf Powder, 100% Organic, 4 oz. Bulk One of the most well-known healing plants, especially for its ability to heal tissue and bone. Cough & Bronchial Syrup With Zinc, Homeopathic Boericke & Tafel, 4 fl. oz. Cough & Bronchial Syrup with Zinc temporarily relieves coughs due to minor throat & bronchial 
irritation occurring with a cold or inhaled irritants. Cough Syrup, Olbas, 100% Natural, Swiss Made, 4 fl. oz. Olbas natural cough syrup is a pleasant tasting and effective combination of herbal extracts, essential oils 
and wildflower honey. DefendAir Immune System Supplement, Trace Minerals, 15 Packets DefendAir Immune System Supplement helps optimize your body's natural defenses by boosting your immune 
system with a special formula of Vitamins, Minerals, Herbs, and Amino Acids. Echinacea Immune Support Tea, Yogi Tea, Certified Organic, 16 Tea Bags Echinacea Immune Support tea is a superior blend of several species of Organic Echinacea Root 
(Echinacea angustifolia, purpurea, pallida) designed to boost your immune system. Echinacea Root Complex, Nature's Way, 180 Caps Echinacea Root Complex helps promote general well-being during the cold and flu season and support the immune system. Echinacea Tincture For Children, Orange Flavor, Alcohol-Free, 100% Organic, 1 fl. oz. ChildLife's great tasting Echinacea can provide extra support at the first sign of colds, flu, sore 
throats, upper respiratory symptoms, sinusitis, and ear infections. Periodic use, especially during 
the winter months, may increase the overall strength of your child's natural defense system. Echinacea Root Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Echinacea Root is also known as Purple Coneflower and considered very valuable by the North American Indians. Echinacea With Elderberry & Zinc, Nature's Way, 100 Caps Nature's Way Echinacea with Elderberry and Zinc is a synergistic combination of the latest scientific 
research and traditional herbal medicine to support the immune system. Effer-C Instant Fizzy Vitamin C Drink Mix Powder, Punch Flavor, 1000 mg, 0.3 oz, 36 Packets This excellent tasting fizzy Vitamin C drink mix is for energy & immune support. Select orange, raspberry or 
cranberry flavor. Elderberry Flower Powder (Sambucus Nigra), Alternative Health & Herbs, 4 oz. As a hot infusion, the flowers are sweat-inducing and in combination with yarrow and mint are specific 
for colds and flu. The flowers are used to treat bronchial and upper respiratory disorders as well 
as hayfever. A cold infusion of the flowers can be used as a compress for chilblains. (Chilblains 
are the inflammation of the toes, feet, or fingers, due to the presence of a cold.) The ointment of 
Elderflower is soothing, cooling and healing, used for irritations of the skin. Considered to have a 
mild laxative action and may be used for rheumatism and gout. Elderberry Flower (Sambucus Nigra) Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. As a hot infusion, the flowers are sweat-inducing and in combination with yarrow and mint are specific 
for colds and flu. The flowers are used to treat bronchial and upper respiratory disorders as well 
as hayfever. A cold infusion of the flowers can be used as a compress for chilblains. (Chilblains 
are the inflammation of the toes, feet, or fingers, due to the presence of a cold.) The ointment of 
Elderflower is soothing, cooling and healing, used for irritations of the skin. Considered to have a 
mild laxative action and may be used for rheumatism and gout. Elderberry Herb, Nature's Way, 575 mg, 100 Caps Elderberry herb is popular for health concerns during the winter season. Elderberry Juice Concentrate, 12.5 fl. oz. Elderberry Juice Concentrate is a Non-Alcoholic source for the health benefits of Elderberries. A medically 
proven strong anti-viral and immune system enhancer, elderberry is recommended as part of a health 
maintenance program. Elderberry Whole Powder, 4 oz. Bulk Elderberry is a purgative, anti-inflammatory, expectorant, and diuretic. Elderberry Whole Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Elderberry kills viruses and is well known as a natural cold and flu treatment. A gargle of Elderberry can 
be used for tonsillitis and as an herbal sore throat remedy. Eucalyptus Essential Oil, 100% Pure, 4 fl. oz. Eucalyptus Essential Oil is a potent decongestion with strong antiseptic properties. Eucalyptus Oil is 
used as an inhalant for asthma, diphtheria, sore throats, sinus and respiratory problems. First Defense Homeopathic Formula For Children, 4 fl. oz. A complete and effective natural broad spectrum anti-infective formula available for infants and children. 
Completely safe and non-toxic for infants and children of all ages. A homeopathic Formula. Flu & Cold Times Tincture, Herbal Cold Supplement, NatureWorks, 1.69 fl. oz. NatureWorks Flu & Cold Times is a homeopathic herbal cold supplement that stimulates your body's 
natural defense mechanisms. Garlicin CF, Cold & Flu Formula, Odor Free Garlic, Nature's Way, 404 mg, 90 Enteric Coated Tabs Garlicin CF Odor Free Garlic Immune Support Formula combines all the healthy benefits of high allicin 
release Garlicin with the added benefits of Echinacea, Ester-C, and OptiZinc. Germ Defense Cold & Flu, Effervescent Tablets, Improvita, 10 Tabs Germ Defense, Like Airborne, for Cold & Flu is a Dietary Supplement that contains 7 herbal extracts, 
antioxidants, electrolytes, amino acids, 1,000 mg of Vitamin C and more. The effervescent technology 
offers 100% immediate absorption. For maximum benefit, it should be taken before entering a crowded environment. Ginger Honey Crystals, 10 Packets Per Box Ginger Honey Crystals can help to relieve motion sickness, aids digestion and temporary nausea. GlyMordica Bitter Melon, 100% Natural, 450 mg, 60 Caps Bitter melon is one of the few agents which has the potential to bolster a flagging pancreas. Known 
for it's ability to help with liver problems, Diabetes and HIV also an excellent natural common cold remedy. Grapefruit Seed Extract, By Louise Tenney, M.H. Used for everything from the common cold to ringworm, grapefruit seed extract could represent a viable 
alternative to antibiotics and other medicines. HAS (Hayfever Allergy Sinus), Hayfever Remedy, Original Formula, Nature's Way, 440 mg, 100 Caps HAS (Hayfever Allergy Sinus) Hayfever Remedy contains many herbs traditionally used to assist the body in 
dealing with symptoms associated with seasonal allergies. Head & Throat Soother Herbal Tea, 20 Tea Bags This caffeine-free tea is an ideal drink for the cold & flu season to remove heat and maintain normal 
nasal and respiratory functions and sooth the head and throat. Herbal Chest Rub, Natural Cold Medication, NatureWorks, 1.4 oz. A fresh herbal vaporizing balm, NatureWorks Herbal Chest Rub relieves bronchial congestion and alleviates coughing. Horehound Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Horehound herb is often used to treat respiratory disorders and has 350 years of history as a soothing 
expectorant. Hyland's C-Plus Cold Homeopathic Formula for Children, 125 Tabs For generations, wise mothers have used Hyland's C-Plus Cold Tablets to ease the drippy misery. Hyland's Sinus Homeopathic Formula, 100 Tabs Hyland's Sinus is a traditional homeopathic formula for the relief of symptoms of runny nose with clear 
to yellow or milky discharge and nasal and sinus congestion due to cold. Hyssop Throat Comforts, Natural Herb Comforts, 61 Lozenges Throat Soothers with natural Hyssop can be used to comfort the throat while undergoing ear candling treatments. Hyssop Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Traditionally, Hyssop was used as a natural cold and flu remedy. Hyssop is also great for lung congestion, 
fevers, digestion and blood pressure regulation. Immune-RX, Immune System Supplement, Hi-Tech Pharmaceuticals, 60 Tabs Immune-RX, Immune System Supplement, was formulated to strengthen your immune system because Immune-Rx 
offers the most powerful protection against the elements. Immune Support Group For Infants & Children (Vitamin C, Echinacea, First Defense) The Immune Support Group stimulates natural immune responses and defends the body. Instant Energy B-12, NOW Foods, 2000 mcg, 75 Packets NOW® Vitamin B-12 Instant Energy is the perfect way to keep alert and energized, regardless of the 
situation. These convenient, fast-acting packets are perfect when traveling or for convenience. Irwin Naturals Immune Shield, Immune System Support, 100 Gelcaps Irwin Naturals multi-herb complex addresses two key areas, immune support and bacterial/viral control. Kombucha 2000, Concentrated Kombucha Capsule, 30 Caps Concentrated Kombucha Capsules are new to the market, but Kombucha 2000 is one of the very first successful 
kombucha tea producers in the United States. Kombucha Miracle Fungus, Kombucha Tea Benefits, By Harald Tietze, Paperback One time best seller, Kombucha Miracle Fungus is all about synergy and Kombucha Tea Benefits it is an easy 
read for those interested in the synergy Kombucha offers or Kombucha benefit 's. Lactobacillus Acidophilus Supplement, Non-Dairy, 100 Caps Lactobacillus Acidophilus Supplement taken as a dietary supplement may help to detoxify and to rebuild 
a balanced intestinal flora. L-Glutathione, 250 mg, 60 Caps L-Glutathione is a tripeptide amino acid produced in the liver primarily from cysteine. L-Glutathione 
acts as a cellular antioxidant by inhibiting free radical proliferation. Liquid Flavored Sweetleaf Stevia, 4 Bottles, 6 ml, 60 Servings Each Flavored Sweetleaf Stevia has Four exciting All Natural, Zero Cal, Zero Carb, Zero Glycemic index - 
Flavored Stevia bottles at an exciting value of only one penny per drop. Meta C Vitamin C Supplement, 1000 mg, 100 Tabs Meta C Vitamin C Supplement is a unique form of vitamin C that is absorbed faster than regular vitamin 
C and maintains higher serum levels for longer period of time with no intestinal discomfort. Multiple Effects Oil, TCM Formula Shixiang Baixiangyou, Cold, Headache & Pain Formula, 100% Natural, 0.34 fl. oz. Multiple Effects Oil, TCM Cold, Headache and Pain Formula opens stuffy noses, removes headache pain, joint pain, and 
drowsiness. Multi-Vitamin Without Iron, Nature's Way, 100 Caps The vitamins and minerals in this Multi Vitamin without Iron play many important roles in the body: 
antioxidants to protect fats, cells and DNA, coenzyme precursors for energy production and metabolism, 
and cofactors for hormones and enzymes which regulate body processes. Nasaline Salt, 8 oz. Jar This pure non-ionized salt is for use with Nasaline or possibly a Neti Pot. Nature's Antiseptics Tea Tree Oil & Grapefruit Seed Extract, CJ Puotinen, Paperback Nature's Warfare, this book covers tea tree oil and grapefruit see extract use in safely destroying 
viruses, bacteria, molds, yeasts and parasites that want to live in us and on us. Natural Cough & Bronchial Syrup, Children's Homeopathic, Boericke & Tafel, Cherry Flavor, 4 fl. oz. Temporarily relieves coughs due to minor throat & bronchial irritation occurring with a cold or inhaled 
irritants. Helps loosen phlegm (mucus) & thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways 
of bothersome mucus & drain bronchial tubes. Natural Cough & Bronchial Syrup, Daytime, Boericke & Tafel, 4 fl. oz. Temporarily relieves coughs due to minor throat & bronchial irritation occurring with a cold or 
inhaled irritants. Natural Cough & Bronchial Syrup, Nighttime, Boericke & Tafel, 4 fl. oz. Don't let a cough keep you awake! B & T Nighttime Cough & Bronchial Syrup combines an all-natural, 
non-narcotic sleep aid with America's favorite homeopathic cough medicine. Neti Pot Nasal Rinse Cup, Porcelain, Banyan Botanicals, 1 Neti Pot This Neti Pot is a hygienic, non-porous, porcelain cup used for nasal and sinus rinse. Considered 
useful for individuals prone to nasal congestion. Neti Wash Plus, Varcho Veda, 2 fl. oz. For use with the Neti-pot, this wash's main ingredient is zinc which helps in cleaning up the sinuses 
and supporting the immune system. Nutribiotic Nasal Spray, With Grapefruit Seed Extract, 1 fl. oz. Nasal Spray is useful to aiding many conditions. During allergy season it helps to re-moisturize the 
nasal passages and clean them of dust, dirt, dander and other allergens. The nasal spray is also useful 
during a bout of sinusitis, or inflammation and infection of the sinus passages. Odorless Garlic Supplement, NOW Foods, 50 mg, 250 SoftGels Odorless Garlic supplement is extracted from Allum sativum and is a specially made Japanese product. 
Our Odorless Garlic yields high amounts of Scordiin, a unique sulfur compound which may be responsible 
for many of garlic's renowned benefits. Pain Formula Tincture, 2 fl. oz. Use the Pain Formula to alleviate pain naturally. Pastilles, Olbas, 100% Natural, Swiss Made, 27 Herbal Cough Drops Olbas Herbal Cough Drops, pastilles, temporarily controls cough due to minor throat and bronchial 
irritations associated with the common cold or inhaled irritants. Pelargonium, Coughs & Chest Ailments, 3 fl. oz. Pelargonium is rich in phytochemicals, vitamins, minerals and amino acids that enhance the body's 
functioning and protects it against diseases. Peppermint Leaf (Mentha X Piperita) Powder, 4 oz. Bulk Peppermint leaf calms the muscles of the stomach and improves the flow of bile, which the body uses 
to digest fats. As a result, food passes through the stomach more quickly. ProstaClean, Prostate Herbs Balanceuticals, TCM Prostate Formula, 100% Natural, 60 Caps Chinese medicine uses this well-known formula for its diuretic and immune supporting properties to 
clear the prostate and eliminate heat and toxins, and to rejuvenate. Protein From Rice Powder, Dairy Free, Vegetarian / Vegan, Hypoallergenic, Chocolate, 1 lb 6.9 oz. A great tasting vegetable protein made from non-genetically modified California grown brown rice. 
Free of the common food allergens from soy, milk, egg, wheat and yeast. Protein From Rice Powder, Dairy Free, Vegetarian / Vegan, Hypoallergenic, Mixed Berry, 1 lb 5 oz. A great tasting vegetable protein made from non-genetically modified California grown brown rice. 
Free of the common food allergens from soy, milk, egg, wheat and yeast. Protein From Rice, Powder, Dairy Free, Vegetarian / Vegan, Hypoallergenic, Plain, 1 lb 5 oz. A great tasting vegetable protein made from non-genetically modified California grown brown rice. 
Free of the common food allergens from soy, milk, egg, wheat and yeast. Protein From Rice, Powder, Dairy Free, Vegetarian / Vegan, Hypoallergenic, Vanilla, 1 lb 5 oz. A great tasting vegetable protein made from non-genetically modified California grown brown rice. 
Free of the common food allergens from soy, milk, egg, wheat and yeast. Quercetin With Bromelain, Hypoallergenic Bioflavonoid, NOW Foods, 800 mg, 120 VCaps This non-citrus Quercetin is non-allergenic, with Bromelain to enhance the absorption of Quercetin. Rosemary Leaf (Rosmarinus Officinalis) Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Rosemary has been traditionally used for tension headaches, stimulating circulation, strengthening the 
nervous system. Good tonic for the heart and for high blood pressure. Sambucol Black Elderberry Extract, Nature's Way, 7.8 fl. oz. Sambucol is used by millions of people with positive results being reported worldwide, Sambucol 
is especially popular for promoting good health against the Flu and Colds during the winter season. Sambucol Elderberry & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 30 Lozenges Sambucol Lozenges contain the original formulation of the award winning black elderberry extract. Sambucol 
Black Elderberry extract has been used by millions of people with positive results being reported worldwide. Sambucol For Kids, Elderberry Formula, 4 fl. oz. Sambucol for Kids supports the immune system, and is especially popular during the winter season. Sambucol 
black elderberry extract has been used by million of people with positive results being reported worldwide. Sambucol Immune System Formula, 30 Lozenges Sambucol Immune System Formula Lozenges support your natural defenses, and are especially popular during 
the winter season. Sambucol black elderberry extract has been used by millions of people with positive 
results being reported worldwide. Sambucol Immune System Formula With Elderberry & Echinacea, 7.8 fl. oz. Sambucol Immune System Elderberry Formula supports your natural defenses against the Flu, and Colds, 
and is especially popular during the winter season. Selenium, 100% Natural, 200 mcg, 100 Caps Selenium is an essential component of glutathione, the body's most potent natural antioxidant system. 
It is a popular choice in many antioxidant regimens. Silver Biotics Liquid, Silver Supplement, 8 fl. oz. Silver Biotics was tested by researchers and was found to kill every strain of bacteria that it was 
tested against and that these bacteria, many of which have become resistant to antibiotics, cause 
many human ailments. Sinol Nasal Spray Allergy & Sinus Relief, Fast Decongestant, 1 oz. Sinol's all Natural Allergy and Sinus Relief and Fast Decongestant Nasal Spray relieves allergies, 
and even headaches fast. SinuCleanse Kit With Plastic Neti Type Pot SinuCleanse Kit w/ Plastic Neti Type Pot is a complete sinus irrigation system for natural relief of 
nasal congestion. Sinus Clikpak Tube, Nelson's Homeopathic, 84 Pellets All natural, safe and highly effective homeopathic medicine for relief of nasal congestion, sinus 
pressure and sinus headache associated with sinusitis or colds. Sinus Pillow, Velvet, Color May Vary, Dreamtime Place this Sinus Pillow over your Eyes and Sinuses and breathe deeply. The refreshing aromatic fill 
of fresh Peppermint, Spearmint and Eucalyptus encourage the opening of the sinus passages and 
unencumbered breathing. Soothing warm or cool therapy helps ease away the unwelcome aches and pains 
of headaches and sinus congestion. Sinus & Lung Congestion Formula Tincture, 2 fl. oz. The Sinus & Lung Congestion Formula was created to help clear the lungs and sinuses of congested matter. Sinus & Lung Congestion Formula Tincture, 100% Organic, 8 fl. oz. The Sinus & Lung Congestion Formula was created to help clear the lungs and sinuses of congested matter. Sitopladi Churna, 450 mg, 120 VCaps Sitopladi Churna was traditionally used in respiratory affections, mild fever, acidity, and coughs. Sitopaladi Powder, Certified Organic, Banyan Botanicals, 1/2 lb. Certified Organic Sitopaladi Powder contains cane sugar, banslochan, pippali, cardamom, cinnamon and corn 
starch. Traditionally used for colds, congestion and bronchial conditions. Sympacho Tea, 20 Tea Bags Sympacho tea is a delicious, all-natural way to reduce inflammation and pain and boost immunity. SystemWell Ultimate Multisystem Immunity Supplement, 180 Tabs SystemWell Ultimate Multisystem Immunity Supplement is the multi-system defense formula for seven essential 
aspects of healthy immunity. Talisadi Churna, 450 mg, 120 VCaps Talisadi Churna is very effective in fighting common colds, cough, asthma, and helps to liquefy phlegm. Talisadi Powder, Certified Organic, Banyan Botanicals, 1/2 lb. Certified Organic Talisadi Powder Adding talisa, black pepper and ginger to Sitopaladi's ingredients, 
this compound is considered useful for coughs, sore throat and bronchial conditions. Tea Tree Oil (Melaleuca Alternifolia), 100% Pure Oil, 2 fl. oz. Tea Tree Oil can be used for general first aid uses such as cuts, burns, abrasions, insect bites, 
bee stings, rashes, impetigo, boils, sinus problems, sore throat, thrush, fingernail and toenail infections. Tea Tree Therapy, Eucalyptus Chest Rub, 2 oz. Tea Tree eucalyptus chest rub it is a 100% natural treatment to ease nasal congestion, enhance breathing 
and provide relief. Throat Spray GSE, 4 fl. oz. This natural formulation is designed to promote healthy conditions in the mouth and throat. Nutribiotic Throat 
Spray provides protection from sore throat due to germs. Umcka Cold & Flu Syrup, Berry Flavor, Nature's Way, 4 oz. Umcka Cold & Flu Berry Syrup combines two clinically tested natural ingredients into one complete, 
multi-action cold and flu formula. Umcka Cold Care Menthol Flavor Syrup, Nature's Way, 4 fl. oz. Umcka Cold Care shortens the duration and reduces the severity of symptoms associated with the common 
cold and throat, sinus, and bronchial irritations. Umcka Cold Care Menthol Syrup, Nature's Way, 8 fl. oz. Clinically tested, UMCKA Cold Care shortens the duration and reduces the severity of throat, sinus and 
bronchial irritations. Umcka Cold & Flu Syrup, Orange Flavor, Nature's Way, 4 oz. Umcka Cold & Flu Orange Syrup combines two clinically tested natural ingredients into one complete, 
multi-action cold and flu formula. Umcka Cold & Flu, Berry Flavor, Nature's Way, 20 Chewable Tabs Umcka Cold & Flu Berry Chewable Tablets combine two clinically tested natural ingredients into one 
complete, multi-action cold and flu formula. Umcka Cold & Flu, Orange Flavor, Nature's Way, 20 Chewable Tabs Umcka Cold & Flu Orange Chewable Tablets combine two clinically tested natural medicines into one 
complete, multi-action cold and flu formula. Umcka Cold Care Alcohol Free Drops, Nature's Way, 1 fl. oz. Clinically tested UMCKA Cold Care with Pelargonium sidoides shortens the duration and reduces the severity 
of throat, sinus and bronchial irritations. Umcka Cold Care Chewable Tablets, Cherry Flavor, Nature's Way, 20 Tabs Umcka Cold Care shortens the duration and reduces the severity of throat, sinus and bronchial irritations. 
Umcka Cold Care provides effective relief of upper respiratory tract irritations. Unlike other remedies 
that simply mask symptoms, Umcka Cold Care helps you recover faster. Umcka Cold Care Chewable Tablets, Menthol Flavor, Nature's Way, 20 Tabs Umcka Cold Care shortens the duration and reduces the severity of throat, sinus and bronchial irritations. 
Umcka Cold Care provides effective relief of upper respiratory tract irritations. Unlike other remedies 
that simply mask symptoms, Umcka Cold Care helps you recover faster. Umcka Cold Care, Original Formula Drops, Nature's Way, 1 fl. oz. Shortens duration and reduces severity of symptoms associated with the common cold and throat, sinus, 
bronchial irritations. Shortens duration & reduces severity of upper respiratory symptoms. Umcka Cold Care, 99% Alcohol Free, Homeopathic Cherry Flavor Syrup, Nature's Way, 4 fl. oz. Shortens duration and reduces severity of symptoms associated with the common cold and throat/sinus/bronchial 
irritations. Umcka ColdCare is a natural cold flu remedy that will helps you recover faster. Umcka Cold Care, 99% Alcohol Free, Sugar Free, Grape Flavor Syrup, Nature's Way, 4 fl. oz. Clinically tested UMCKA shortens the duration and reduces the severity of throat, sinus and bronchial irritations. Umcka Cold Care Soothing Hot Drink, Cherry Menthol, Nature's Way, 10 Packets Umcka Cold Care Soothing Hot Drink shortens the duration and severity of nasty colds! Flavored with 
natural cherry and menthol for a soothing effect, and sweetened with Xylitol in a delicious, immune-boosting 
homeopathic formula from Nature's Way. Umcka Cold Care Soothing Hot Drink, Lemon, Nature's Way, 10 Packets Try Umcka Cold Care hot drink at the first sign of cold or flu. Umcka is derived from the plant Pelargonium 
sidoides, a flowering herb native to Africa. For centuries, the roots of this herb have been used to 
combat respiratory infections; bronchitis, colds, and sore throats. Usnea Tincture, 100% Organic, 2 fl. oz. Usnea is an antibiotic, antibacterial, antifungal, astringent, antiviral, and diuretic. Vitamin A, 10,000 IU, 100% Natural, Nature's Way, 100 SoftGels Nature's Way vitamin A is 100% natural from fish liver oil. It contains no artificial ingredients or preservatives. Vitamin B-12 Liquid Supplement, 50 mcg, & vitamin B-9 (Folic Acid), 400 mcg, 1 fl. oz. This liquid B-12 supplement with its combination of B vitamins can be a very effective revitalizer in 
supporting the nervous system, prenatal child health, vegetarians, and heart health. Vitamin B-12 Complex Liquid, NOW Foods, 2 fl. oz. Vitamin B-12 Helps to maintain a healthy nervous system, and helps in the prevention of pernicious 
anemia. Folic Acid should be taken by all females of child bearing age to help prevent neuro-tube 
birth defects. Folic acid is also linked to heart health. Vitamin C 1000 With Bioflavonoids, Nature's Way, 100% Natural, 1000 mg, 250 VCaps Nature's Way Vitamin C with Bioflavonoids provides antioxidant protection for many of the body's 
important enzyme systems. Vitamin C Liquid With Rose Hips & Bioflavonoids, Kosher, Natural Citrus Flavor, Dynamic Health, 1000 mg, 16 fl. oz. Liquid Vitamin C with Natural Rose Hips & Bioflavonoids is an easy to swallow dietary supplement that 
exceeds the recommended daily intake of vitamin C. Vitamin E, Natural D-Alpha-Tocopherol, 400 IU, 100 SoftGels Vitamin E has potent antioxidant activity, supplies oxygen to the blood, aids in strengthening capillary 
walls, and plays a beneficial role in cancer and cardiovascular disease prevention, anti-aging 
benefits, circulation, wound-healing, immune function, nervous system function, PMS, hot flushes, 
diabetes, vascular disease, eye health, tissue repair, athletic performance, leg cramps, skin and 
hair health, and alleviating fatigue. Wellness Shots, California Natural, 4 oz. Created in a Malibu Juice Bar, Wellness Shots are a powerful tonic formulated from organic ginger, 
oregano oil; grapefruit seed extract, colloidal silver, and peppermint. It creates instant relief for 
colds, flu's, and allergy like symptoms. Wellness Shots Spray, California Natural, 1 oz. Created in a Malibu Juice Bar, Wellness Shots are a powerful tonic formulated from organic ginger, oregano 
oil; grapefruit seed extract, colloidal silver, and peppermint. It creates instant relief for colds, 
flu's, and allergy like symptoms. Zinc Lozenges With Echinacea & Vitamin C, Nature's Way, 23 mg, 60 Lozenges Nature's Way Zinc lozenge boosts cold season defense with zinc, widely recognized as an important 
nutritional support during the cold season, and echinacea pupurea, clinically shown to support the 
immune system, and Vitamin C, a vitally important vitamin for general health maintenance. Herbal Remedies: Cold / Common Cold / Head Cold, Chest Cold Supplements & Products MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Common Cold NOTIFY YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER IF... Severe difficulty swallowing or breathing. Difficulty breathing from a sore throat can 
also be a symptom of a more serious illness. Excessive drooling in a young child. If swallowing hurts enough that drooling occurs, you 
should go to a hospital's emergency department. A fever, especially 101°F or greater. Tender or swollen lymph glands in the neck. Pus in the back of the throat. A red rash that feels rough, and increased redness in the skin folds. Severe sore throat without much of a cough. Associated headache, abdominal pain, or vomiting. Another family member recently diagnosed with a strep throat. You or a family member seems to be dehydrated (dry mouth, sunken eyes, severe weakness, or decreased 
urine output), an urgent health care provider's appointment is indicated. Symptoms of dehydration in adults 
may be different from symptoms of dehydration in children. Significant dehydration associated with inability 
to drink fluids is often best treated at the hospital. MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Dehydration You or a family member cannot get good pain relief from over-the-counter medications or cannot get 
to sleep because of pain. Because health care provider's offices vary in their ability to treat serious conditions in the office 
or see people on an urgent basis, you might want to call your health care provider to get advice on 
whether you should come to the office or go to the emergency department. Keep in mind that urgent care 
centers are generally poorly equipped for treatment of serious conditions. For a full list of available products from Mountain Rose Herbs, click on banner below: HELPFUL PRODUCTS & FURTHER EDUCATION Prescription for Nutritional Healing: The A-To-Z Guide To Supplements -- by Phyllis A. Balch, James F. Balch - 2nd Edition Prescription for Nutritional Healing: The A-To-Z Guide To Supplements -- by Phyllis A. Balch, James F. Balch - 4th Edition Prescription for Herbal Healing: The A-To-Z Reference To Common Disorders -- by Phyllis A. Balch The Complete Guide to Natural Healing If you see a suggested Amazon product "not there" as indicated by an orange box with the Amazon logo, this 
only means the specific product link has been changed by Amazon.com. Use the "click here" icon on the orange box 
and it will bring you to Amazon.com and you can do a search for a specific product using keywords and a new list 
of available products and prices will show. Their product and resource links are constantly changing and being 
upgraded. Many times there are more than one link to a specific product. Prices will vary between product 
distributors so it pays to shop around and do price comparisons. Educational materials and health products are available through Amazon.com. 
Use the search box provided below to search for a particular item. HERBS, OILS, & SUPPLIES MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Manufacturers & Distributors Mountain Rose Bulk Herbs Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs A Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs B Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs C Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs D Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs E Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs F Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs G Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs H Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs I Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs J Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs K Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs L Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs M Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs N Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs O Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs P Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs R Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs S Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs T Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs U Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs V Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs W Mountain Rose Herbs, Bulk Herbs Y Mountain Rose Aromatherapy Oils Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils A-B Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils C-E Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils F-L Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils M-P Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils Q-Z Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Oil Blends & Resins Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Diffusers, Nebulizers, & Burners Mountain Rose Herbs, Aromatherapy Oils: Oil Kits Mountain Rose Herbs.com: Order Online Accessories & Tools Aromatherapy Aroma Sprays and Flower Waters Babies/Children Body and Bath Bottles, Jars & Containers Bulk Herbs Bulk Ingredients Bulk Oils Butters Capsules Clays Dental Care Essential Oils Facial Care Green & Black Teas Hair Care Herbal Extracts Herbal Oils Herbal Salves & Balms Herbal Teas Herbs for Pets Incense, Resins and Candles Lotions Massage Oils Medicinal Herb Seeds Tea Brewing Supplies Women's Products Click Here To Visit Herbal Remedies Product Page A Source For Medicinal & Ritual Herbs & Supplies Aphrodisiacs Aromatherapy Bath & Body Care Bulk Herbs By The Pound Capsules, Tablets & Extracts Chinese Herbals Electronics Extracts First Aid Products Food Products, Mixes, Seeds, Snacks & More! Hair Care Products & Supplies Herbs & Oils, Kilo & Ton Hydroponics & Gardening Kava Products Kitchen & Housewares Mushrooms Musical Instruments Oral Care & Dental Products PC & IT - Computer Supplies & Assessories Skin Care, Cosmetics, & Gift Sets Smokes, Seeds, Cacti Spices, Salts, Sweeteners, & Seasonings Sports, Toys & Games Sweets, Candy, Chips & Snacks Stimulants Sedatives Teas & Coffees Shaman Shop Home Page MoonDragon's Nutrition Information Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Nutrition Basics Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness: Therapy Index MoonDragon's Nutrition Therapy Index MoonDragon's Alternative Health Information Index MoonDragon's Aromatherapy Information Index MoonDragon's Health & Wellness Index MoonDragon's ObGyn Information Index by Subject Order MoonDragon's ObGyn Information Index by Alphabetical