
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 08:52:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

What is Pertussis? Symptoms Complications Treatment and Prevention HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Diseases, Disorders and Conditions » Respiratory Diseases and Conditions » What is Pertussis? Symptoms Complications Treatment and Prevention 69 rate or flag By PaulaHenry1 Pertussis Pertussis , or the more familiar term, Whooping Cough, is a highly contagious respiratory disease caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. Pertussis is spread to others by direct contact. If one has close contact with someone infected, secretions from the nose, throat and mouth of an infected person may be easily transmitted through droplets from a cough or sneeze. It is difficult to know the signs of Pertussis until it appears as such. Pertussis appears as a common cold with a cough, however, the cough eventually becomes worse. The bacteria within causes the breathing tubes to narrow, to inflame. Therefore the infected person finds him/herself gasping for air that leads to vomiting and/or a high-pitched "whoop" sound. A person with pertussis may be contagious 2 weeks prior and up to 2 weeks after symptoms begin. That is why it is especially important to remember to wash your hands regularly and cover your cough. And if you are sick, stay home and avoid contact with infants, especially those who are under 12 months of age. Anyone with pertussis should not attend childcare, school, work, or other public places until they have completed 5 days of an appropriate antibiotic treatment . See all 3 photos Sounds of Pertussis Symptoms of Pertussis Symptoms of Pertussis are: Runny nose Nasal congestion Sneezing Red, watery eyes A mild fever Dry cough As previously stated, Pertussis can resemble a cold. Symptoms usually appear 3-12 days after infection. Although it is hard to determine if a regular cold or Pertussis there are a couple things that can make it clearer. Pertussis does not cease with the use of over-the-counter medication. Symptoms remain. Also, the coughing fits tend to worsen at night. After a week or two of being affected the symptoms worsen: Coughing with thick phlegm discharge Coughing leads to vomiting Coughing attacks cause a red or blue face Coughing causes extreme fatigue High-pitched "whoop" sound is present If these symptoms are present but the "whoop" is not, that DOES NOT mean you aren't infected. Not everyone gets the "whoop" sound. A persistent hacking cough is a clear sign of infection, infants are more prone to the "whoop." A Mothers Story Treatment Infants, especially those younger than 4 months, are typically hospitalized. Hospitalization is required to monitor the infants tolerance of coughing spells, to make sure the infant is receiving proper nutrients and hydration, and to monitor the childs Oxygen sats. For teens or adults the treatment is antibiotics- if treated ealry enough! Unfortunately, most patients are diagnosed too late, when antibiotics aren't very effective.But, by taking the antibiotics it can reduce the spread to others. Prevention The DTaP vaccination is your best defense. They are usually given to children at ages 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, 15-18 months, and 4-6 years. Tdap booster for adolescents and adults. According to the CDC, since the 1980s, there's been an increase in the number of cases of pertussis, especially among teens (10–19 years of age) and babies less than 6 months of age. In 2009 there were nearly 17,000 reported cases including 14 deaths from pertussis nationally. Pertussis is hitting even harder this year. California states they have the most cases reported in over 63 years! In Ohio, Columbus Public Health (CPH) and Franklin County Board of Health (FCBH) are responding to an outbreak of pertussis during 2010. As of November 27, there were 854 cases reported by Columbus and Franklin Counties for this year In Michigan, an increase in pertussis was first observed in the second half of 2008, continued throughout 2009, and has continued to date throughout 2010 The main reason Whooping Cough is back in the news is lack of children being vaccinated. Also, parents immunizations are fading in effectiveness, meaning they can transfer it to their very young children without being aware. Vaccines: Are They Really Safe and Effective Amazon Price: $5.48 List Price: $12.95 Whooping Cough (Deadly Diseases & Epidemics) Amazon Price: $34.94 List Price: $34.95 Whooping Cough - A Journey Towards Truth Amazon Price: $22.00 Complications Pertussis is not a cold that will fade, it is a serious, highly contagious illness that needs to be stopped in it's tracks! Get yourself a booster and make sure your children are vaccinated. The complications are too risky for anyone. Complications of Pertussis: Infants Seizures Brain damage Pneumonia Apnea (stop breathing or slowed breathing Ear Infections Fatigue Death Teens and Adults Rib Fractures Weight Loss Urinary Incontinence Abdominal Hernia Fatigue The last thing this World needs is another pandemic to worry about. But that is exactly where we are headed unless we get ourselves and our children vaccinated against Pertussis. Stay informed and make the right decision for you and your loved ones... vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Health: Stress and High Blood Pressure- Hypertension Which Number is Affected Health: Edwards Syndrome History- Living with Trisomy 18 Comments Loading... No comments yet. Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 93 PaulaHenry1 From America 141 Followers 134 Hubs Joined 21 months ago Read more Hubs by PaulaHenry1 Related Hubs SPREAD OF 'PERTUSSIS' ( 'WHOOPING COUGH') RAISES CONCERN... by CYBERSUPE Questions and Answers About Fibromyalgia: Symptoms and... by Mike Lickteig Symptoms and Treatment of Cholera by IzzyM Syphilis Rash Symptoms and Treatments by DeborahFantasia Migraine With and Without Aura - Symptoms and Treatment by micko27 Medical Tips On Pertussis: Pertussis (Whooping Cough) In... by akirchner Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. te