
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache
X-Varnish: 1235606130 1235590482
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
X-Drupal-Cache: MISS
X-Varnish-Cache: HIT
ETag: "1330984388"
Last-Modified: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 21:53:08 +0000
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.16
Cache-Control: max-age=316
Expires: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 22:08:10 GMT
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 22:02:54 GMT
Connection: close
Vary: User-Agent

Back Strength and Injury Prevention Workout - Men's Fitness Jump to Navigation subscribe > renew > give a gift > customer service > Training Build Muscle Lose Weight Success Stories Pro Tips Nutrition What to Eat What to Drink Healthy Recipes Supplements Women Galleries Dating Advice Sex Tips Leisure Sports Entertainment Outdoor Travel Stuff Workout Gear Fashion and Trends Reviews Home › Training › Build Muscle › Back Strength and Injury Prevention Workout Print Email Back Strength and Injury Prevention Workout Lower back pain and weakness are common. Why it happens and how to stop it. Dr. Michael Camp, DPT, CSCS, PES Whether you're some type of competitive athlete such as sports athlete, a crossfitter or the everyday "gym guy", lower back and neck pain is something that cripples anyone's aspirations . In an efforts to understand the ailments and how to prevent them, we asked Dr. Michael Camp DPT, CSCS, PES, owner of My Competitive Life , for his rundown of back injuries and expert advice on how to treat and prevent them. What You Did Bulging Disc or Herniated Disc The disc is a gelatin material that resides between each vertebrate. A bulging disc is where the nuclear material is still contained within the annular fibers, but bulging out and can be putting pressure on a nerve root. A herniated disc can vary in degree, but the disc is no longer contained by the annular fibers and can be leaking and causing pressure onto a nerve. Degenerative Disc Disease The space between each vertebrate begins to become smaller, causing more pressure onto each disc and spinal structures. This can lead to osteoarthritis, micro fractures and ruptured discs. Spinal Facet Impingement This is part of the vertebrate that can become locked in a certain position due to a quick, awkward movement, or straining a muscle when lifting. The result is sharp pain in your neck or back when trying to move into certain positions. Pinched Nerve with Strained Muscle This happens due to compression, constriction, or stretching of muscles. Symptoms can range from numbness and burning into your extremities or a “pins and needles” feeling as well. How You Did It Poor Form Performing a squat or deadlift while flexing or rounding your spine has dramatic effects on shear loading of the discs and the result is injury. The spine is much stronger and better able to withstand compressive forces—about 55% stronger—when in a neutral posture. Myoelectric signals (the electrical signals that control muscles) create muscle forces when performing the deadlift and squat. With a flexed, rounded spine, the muscles of your lower back are “silent,” and you increase strain on posterior passive tissues and high shearing forces on the lumbar spine resulting in injury. On the other hand, a neutral or extended spine showed increased myoelectric lower back muscle recruitment and a reduction of shear forces on the lumbar vertebral disks resulting in a quality lift and reduced risk for injury. Lack of Flexibility Crossed Pelvis Syndrome and Gluteal Amnesia is described by having weak or inhibited glutes, weak abdominals, tight hamstrings and tight hip flexors. As a result, when trying to squat or deadlift, you will not be able to recruit the power muscles of their hips and glutes correctly, causing increased stress and force onto your spine. Training Prescription Key Notes #1 Focus on developing unison among several muscle groups. #2 Focus on the core, pelvis and hips. (Remember: power comes from the hips, not the lower back) #3 Work on stretching your traps and pecs. #4 Increase your back and shoulder muscles to improve strength and spinal support to improve posture. NEXT: THE TRAINING PROGRAM >> Page 1 2 > Print Email Related Articles Three Plane Exercises That Will Prevent Injury Most Injury-Prone Pro Athletes Five Most Common Gym Injuries Train Through Injuries Search Search this site: Newsletter Signup Enter email and click Subscribe: Poll Why do you snack? Hunger Boredom Temptation Stress Keep metabolism up From Our Partners Gractivity: International Restaurant & Foodservice Show The Unexpected Stress-Busting Power of Music Use Eggs as Band-Aids (and Other Tips) TJ Waldburger UFC on FX Post-Fight Video Interview Constantinos Philippou UFC on FX Post-Fight Video Interview James Te Huna UFC on FX Post-Fight Video Interview Back to the Floppy Disk: Today in Retro Newscasts TwitPic Theater: Playmates go Pinup, Sport Bikinis, Bounce on Trampolines Rubbers, Balls, and Chicken Tutorials: An Insider’s Look at Spring Training Men's Fitness Home Training Nutrition Women Leisure Stuff Visit our other publications online: Fit Pregnancy Flex Men's Fitness Muscle & Fitness Muscle & Fitness Hers Natural Health Shape Country Weekly National Enquirer Star Advertising Info Terms o