Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

HeathSource News  » Blog Archive   » Using Decompression to Ease Back Pain GMA: Chiropractors Lower Hypertension? Consumer Reports on Chiropractic CBS News Ear Infection Healthy Horizons CNBC Onsite Chiro Home News Chiropractic Services Office Locations FAQ Franchise Opportunity About Us Contact Us Using Decompression to Ease Back Pain 27 October 2009 0 Decompression therapy is a non-surgical mechanical way to stretch the spine gently.  This technique may help relieve back pain caused by herniated discs, posterior facet syndrome and radiculopathy.  The stretching function reduces the pressure upon the discs that sit between the vertebrae, perhaps creating a temporary negative pressure, which may help the material that has escaped the disc to retract in the case of disc injuries. For people who don’t like to disrobe for treatment this is a good option.  You remain fully clothed during treatment and are strapped to the mechanical bed across the chest and pelvis.  The usual course of treatment requires twenty or more sessions over a period of a few weeks.  Each session lasts for 30-45 minutes.  Insurance doesn’t normally cover decompression, so this is a substantial investment. In addition to the time on the mechanical table, some practitioners include electrical stimulation via a TENS unit, ultrasound and hot or cold compresses.  These additional treatments may increase the effectiveness of the decompression.  If successful decompression may help relieve numbness, pain, tingling or weakness in the legs and lower back.  There are several counter-indications. Patients with osteoporosis, metal plates or screws in their back, with fractures of the spine or tumors should not engage in decompression therapy.  Those who have an abdominal aortic aneurysm should also avoid decompression. There are a variety of studies on the effectiveness of decompression therapy, but the verdict is still out.  Anecdotally people report good results for minor disc injuries.  If you have the money and want to give this a try, it is certainly worth your time.  Combining decompression therapy with massage and acupuncture may give you more than enough relief symptoms to avoid other more invasive treatments. You are most likely to find decompression therapy being performed at chiropractic offices, since this alternate modality hasn’t caught on universally as of yet.  Chiropractors are likely to use decompression in combination with regular chiropractic sessions.  One of the advantages of decompression is that it is non-invasive, unlike surgery and injections of the spine. Not every spinal injury is receptive to spinal decompression.  This therapy, like any other treatment of the back and spine should be carefully considered and well monitored.  If too much pressure is used, it is possible to exacerbate the original injury, so finding someone with good credentials and plenty of experience is a must.  The spinal cord is a delicate and valuable part of your anatomy, protect it well. Spinal decompression isn’t much different from the old traction systems.  The key difference is that the process has been mechanized to allow doctors to be more specific in their treatments with less effort.  Computers run the tables through a selected program and can be more precise in the application of the traction.  By utilizing decompression tables, practitioners can improve treatment outcomes. Take a look online to find the chiropractors and other practitioners who offer this service and make sure to ask about their success rates and the manner in which they perform and monitor progress.  Decompression therapy is another tool in the treatment of back pain. Enter the letters you see above. First Name Email Address Will never rent, sell, or give away your info. Videos News The Key To Curing Headaches Strategies For Successful Weight Loss Why Is Weight Loss So Difficult? Cutting Through The Fat Of Weight Loss Programs – How To Find A Good Weight Loss Program CBS News Ear Infection Healthy Horizons CNBC Onsite Chiro Popular Archives Non-Surgical Spinal Decompression Machines Finding Pain Relief Through Decompression Neck Pain Is No Laughing Matter HealthSource Chiropractic and Progressive Rehab Featured In February Edition of Delta In-Flight Magazine, Sky Tension Headaches Hurt! What Causes Them and How to Get Rid of Them! Neck Pain Relief: Use Reflexology to Feel Better Natural Treatment Options for Sciatic Pain Weight Loss In Three Difficult Steps Treatment For Soft Tissue Injuries Holistic Medicine Treatment For Pregnancy Back Pain March 2010 (35) February 2010 (56) January 2010 (57) December 2009 (53) November 2009 (67) October 2009 (87) September 2009 (19) August 2009 (2) Categories Tags Active Lifestyles 0 CTS 0 Drug Free 0 Exercise/Rehab 0 Franchises 0 Headline 1 Healthy Eating 0 Living Pain Free 2 New Treatment Technology 0 Slider 374 Weight Loss 0 Back Pain Back Pain Help Back Pain Help Apache Junction AZ Back Pain Help Bolingbrook IL Back Pain Help Houston TX Back Pain Help Minneapolis MN Back Pain Help Portland ME Chiropractic Chiropractor Chiropractor In Apache Junction AZ Chiropractor In Bolingbrook IL Chiropractor In Minneapolis MN decompression Decompression Help Bolingbrook IL headache Headache Help Apache Junction AZ Headache Help Bolingbrook IL Headache Help Houston TX Headache Help Minneapolis MN Headache Help Portland ME headaches herniated disc Neck Pain Neck Pain Help Neck Pain Help Apache Junction AZ Neck Pain Help Bolingbrook IL Neck Pain Help Houston TX Neck Pain Help Minneapolis MN Neck Pain Help Portland ME pain Home | News | Chiropractic Services | Office Locations | FAQ | About Us | Co