
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 09:54:34 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.doctorshazia.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
X-Cache: MISS from sv32.byethost32.org
Via: 1.1 sv32.byethost32.org:80 (squid/2.7.STABLE9)
Connection: close

Cold | DR. SHAZIA DR. SHAZIA Homeopathic Doctor Home Contact Us Subscribe Search Categories Auto & Motor (1) Beauty (1521) Hair Care (539) Natural & Organic (323) Skin Care (650) Foods & Culinary (1) Gambling (1) General Health Care (4348) Baby & Child Care (646) Exercise Equipment (284) Health Care (490) Herbal Supplements (575) Home Remedies (284) Household Supplies (303) Personal Care (282) Sexual Wellness (611) Vitamins & Supplements (542) Weight Loss (328) Health & Fitness (24) Health Care & Medical (21) Homeopathic Remedies (4204) Allergy, Sinus & Asthma (474) Cough & Cold (398) Diabetes (131) Digestion & Nausea (243) Ear Care (284) Eye Care (275) First Aid (185) Flower Essences (323) Foot Care (194) Homeopathy Books (378) Incontinence (88) Oral Care (143) Pain Relievers (286) Single Homeopathic Remedies (176) Skin Disorders (56) Sleep Aids (211) Smoking Cessation (117) Personal Product & Services (1) Software (1) Sports & Athletics (1) Bookmarks Doctor Jokes Find me on Bloggers.com Health Medical Information Healthy Cooking Recipes Say NO to Smoking Secrets of Body Building Top Medical Books Weight Loss Information What is Psychology? Meta Log in Posts Tagged ‘cold’ « Older Entries How Long Does a Cold Last? What You Can Do to Help Them May 2nd, 2012 | Author: kk How Long Does a Cold Last? What You Can Do to Help Them The question, how long does a cold last, cannot be truthfully answered. There is no real time for the duration of a cold, as the cold is not the problem here, but your immune system. However, it is a relevant question that needs careful consideration. Let’s look at the variation of colds, the different times they last and how you can help them on their way, or prevent them altogether. Getting colds does not necessarily mean you are unhealthy. Just as not getting colds doesn’t necessary mean you are healthy. Everyone has their Achilles heel. For some it’s the skin. For some, it’s the digestive system. For others, it’s the respiratory system. So if you regularly get colds, then respiration is one of your main areas of health weaknesses. Some people get colds which are mild and/or of short duration. Others get serious and/or lengthy colds. This has a greater bearing on the state of your immune system. A child getting colds is a good thing. Children are not born with any immunity at all. After weaning, they have to create their own. This is done by getting diseases and then recovering from them naturally. This creates healthy adults. Sometimes a serious cold, or frequent colds in children do need a bit of help, but body supporting help, that supports their body’s best efforts. Adults who get severe or frequent colds can indicate a serious health problem, from a chronically depleted immune system. For others, it can mean an acute episode, while they are coping with something that is depleting their energy. For example, a marriage break up or moving house are very stressful times, and often you are at your weakest moment at these times. Whatever the reason for your colds, there are a number of ways you can speed your recovery naturally. By far the fastest and easiest way is with homeopathy. Homeopathic medicine is natural, very fast acting and works by boosting your immune system. Colds can be drastically shortened and even prevented altogether. Another essential aspect for prevention is a healthy diet consisting of lots of fresh fruit and vegetables, as much raw as possible. Few people eat enough, opting for the health damaging fast foods instead. And last, but not least, is by getting out into the sun on a daily basis. The natural absorption of vitamin D from the unfiltered rays of the sun is one of the best ways to be certain you maintain good health all your life. The supplement is not the same and has many damaging qualities. Do you want to learn more about natural good health, in particular homeopathy? Download my free report ‘An Introduction to Some Common Homeopathic Remedies’ here: Good Health Naturally . Madeleine Innocent is a full time consultant homeopath and homeopathic coach. Visit Madeleine here: http://www.twolegsandfour.com/index7.html . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Madeleine_Innocent Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: cold , Help. , last , long , them | No Comments » Home Remedies For Cold – Get Out of a Cold April 26th, 2012 | Author: kk Home Remedies For Cold – Get Out of a Cold Contagious infections, viral in disease, and enforced by coronaviruses and picornaviruses are the forces that prey upon individuals, generally infecting them with acute viral nasopharyngitis or acute coryza, as they strike upon the upper respiratory system with a vengeance.  This vial disease that has been described in clinical terminology is generally referred to as the common cold.   The plaguing symptoms of the debilitating ailment can last for up to a week at their most intense, and linger on up to two weeks.  These agonizing symptoms include cough, fatigue, fever, headache, loss of appetite, malaise, muscle weakness, nasal congestion, sore throat and sneezing.  The potential looms as to the afflicted individual missing a few days of either school or work.  As there is not a single vaccine available, home remedies for cold are the most optimal modes of treatment. Its susceptible individual, through direct and indirect interactions with other individuals possessing such virus, contracts a common cold’s virus.  Aerosols, that contains the viruses of colds, which are imparted with such germination through coughing or sneezing is one form of contracting.  The other form is by the susceptible individual’s contact with either nasal or saliva discharges, either by way of direct contact with an infected individual, or by sharing or handling the same object or surface.  Frequent and proper hand washing is a good precautionary measure, amid home remedies for cold. In providing all individuals with natural and defensive ammunition, in combating the rigors of a cold, are a number of home remedies for cold that bear such effectiveness. Lemons are a resourceful option among home remedies for cold.  Mix a portion of lemon juice, along with some honey and hot water, and drink, as a type of tea.  Lemon juice added to a bowl of cold water, and, by the mode of a washcloth compress, can be applied to the forehead to aid in the event of a presented fever, as a supplemental home remedies for cold. The vitamin C properties contained with lemons infuses into the body through the forehead in providing support to the body’s immune system. Among home remedies for cold is the usage of honey.  It can be taken, by the teaspoon full, or mixed with hot water and lemon, as a sort of tea. A popular choice among home remedies for cold is the implementation of garlic.  Five garlic cloves are to be chopped and peeled.  Drizzle the garlic with half a cup of honey.  Then mix in either a small amount of cayenne pepper or ginger.  Let it marinade for an hour or more.  Administer one teaspoon full, orally, as needed. Cayenne pepper, in small measurements, added to food or within a home remedies for cold formulation, such as earlier described, is yet another among home remedies for cold option. For relaxation, rest and fevers, chamomile tea is within among home remedies for cold. As an herbal type, among home remedies for cold, is peppermint tea.  Such tea is effective in clearing up sinuses.  This tea can also be added, by containment of tea bags, into bath water. In an effort to combat chills and tiredness from a cold, cut off a one-inch piece of fresh ginger root, and peel it.  Grate the piece of root into a cup or mug, and then pour into the container, and over the grated ginger, one cup of boiling water.  Let the filled cup or mug steep for five minutes.  A teaspoon full of honey can also be added to such blend, all, as another among home remedies for cold. A favorite choice of many individual, in yet another recommended among home remedies for cold, is thyme.  To implement this herb into treatment for a cold, prepare a tea, using one cup of dried thyme and one cup of water.  Allow this form of tea to steep for fifteen minutes.  Strain the hot liquid through a strainer of sorts, in order to remove the thyme.  Add some honey, to both taste and benefit, to such tea.  Refrigerate, and administer, by mouth, one teaspoon each hour.  Suggested usage of this particular tea is only for one to two days. Dr John Anne is a herbal specialist with years of experience in the field of Alternative Health Care. Read more Home Remedies for Cold at Home Remedies . Also visit http://www.answers.natural-homeremedies.com/ to ask and share your own Home Remedies. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Dr_John_Anne Posted in Home Remedies | Tags: cold , Home , remedies | No Comments » Cure For the Common Cold – Conventional Vs Natural April 12th, 2012 | Author: kk Cure For the Common Cold – Conventional Vs Natural Common cold, like how its name suggests, is the most common illness that strikes the general populace. In the past few years, this has been pointed out as the number one reason of absence for workers and students. Cure for the common cold comes in the conventional method and the natural remedies, but the question is, which one is better? This condition caused mainly by rhinoviruses. These viruses can thrive in the air we breathe or the things we touch. In fact, there were some studies conducted that says cold virus can be found even in the comforts of your own home. During the cold season it is easier to catch the cold virus not because of the weather but because this is the season where we spend much time cooped up indoors and in close proximity to the people or the other factors that may carry the cold virus. The abrupt changes of the weather does not cause cold but it can cause your immune system to weaken, and thereby giving different kinds of viruses the advantage. This prevalent condition is characterized by many symptoms such as barking cough, runny nose, sore throat, and even fever. The cold virus is most contagious during the first week of its appearance in a person. Since it can thrive in the air, you can easily catch the virus when a person afflicted sneezes or coughs. Shaking hands and kissing and other types of close contacts can also be a means of transfer. If you are already suffering from common cold, you can try a couple of over-the-counter medicines that can help relieve the symptoms of cold. These medicines are safe enough to try. But if you are looking for a cure for the common cold that can not only treat the condition but also promote better over all health condition, you should consider taking the natural herbal remedies. Any food that stars garlic as the main ingredient can help cure common cold. This is the same for ginger and tulsi seeds. These herbal remedies can help relieve the symptoms caused by the common cold. One good thing to try is the juice of lemon combined with honey. This delicious concoction can help relieve sore throat, and cough and can give you the supply of vitamin C that you need. You can also try the wonderful benefits of turmeric powder combined with warm milk. This is a very effective relief from cold. If your nasal passage is stuffy and you have trouble breathing properly, try mixing vapor rub into steaming water. Inhalation of the steam can help clear up clogged nasal passages. You can also try a homeopathic remedy that will guarantee to make this condition go away. This homeopathic remedy is called FluGo. If you are suffering from cold, flu, cough, sore throat and other symptoms of common cold virus, this is the homeopathic remedy for you. This product is different because it uses the combination of biochemic tissue salts and herbs to help you get better in no time. FluGo is safe to use because it does not contain harmful ingredients or drugs. Prevention is still better than cure. If you do not want the common cold virus to keep on coming back, enhance and strengthen your immune system by eating healthy and nutritious foods and having regular exercise. Your body will be more prepared in combating diseases. Cure for the common cold whether conventional or natural is not necessary if you are living a healthy and active lifestyle. However if you already have common cold, do not let it disrupt your everyday routine. With the right herbal and homeopathic remedies, you can get well fast. There’s no quick fix to cellulite. The best way to reduce it is to fight it with a combination of a healthy diet, exercise, cellulite cream and treatment. Visit my website at http://www.bodycellulite.com for more information. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Kate_Allen Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: cold , common , Conventional , cure , Natural | No Comments » Q&A: What is the fastest home remedy that you know of to get rid of a cold? April 5th, 2012 | Author: kk Question by : What is the fastest home remedy that you know of to get rid of a cold? I have a cold, came down with it last night. I’m seeing my girlfriend Sunday, and I want it gone. So, if you know a home remedy, or any way that to get rid of a cold really fast, please let me know. Thanks! Best answer: Answer by Adam hot bath tea and some cold medicene Give your answer to this question below! Posted in Home Remedies | Tags: cold , Fastest , Home , Know , remedy | 2 Comments » How Long Does a Cold Last and How to Shorten Its Duration in Seven Easy Steps April 5th, 2012 | Author: kk How Long Does a Cold Last and How to Shorten Its Duration in Seven Easy Steps Asking how long does a cold last is a bit like asking how long is a piece of string. It depends on so many factors. So lets look at a few. Taking suppressive drugs tends to do just that, suppress the symptoms, without healing them. This can make the cold drag on, albeit with milder symptoms. But the drugs can also knock your energy. If you are pretty healthy, a cold will last only days and the symptoms will be mild. On the other hand, if you’re not very healthy, your cold will probably last weeks and the symptoms may be more serious, at least in the beginning. So how healthy is healthy? Several things contribute to your overall health. If you’re naturally positive and happy, you’ll find that you can overcome almost every ailment thrown at you. Diet plays a huge role. If you eat a lot of fast food, processed food (packets, cans, sugar, white flour, preservatives, colours, etc) you know you won’t be healthy. But neither is a typical western diet healthy. It tends to lack the right amount of fresh fruit and veggies. Exercise, even gentle, helps keep your body working as it should be. With the recent scares of skin cancer, most people now chronically lack sunshine. Sleep is often substituted for work. This is far from healthy. Few people relax enough. A day should always contain some ‘you’ time. Learn to meditate, do yoga, sit quietly, whatever you like, but learn to relax and switch off. Purchase yourself a homeopathic winter ailments kit and try using the homeopathic medicines to shorten your cold and to prevent future colds. How long does a cold last? You choose. It’s duration is how healthy you are to begin with. Don’t forget to take time out to resolve it. Taking a day off work in the early stage of the cold may well shorten its duration. Look after your body, it’s the only one you have. And no-on else will. Do you want to learn more about natural good health, in particular homeopathy? Download my free report ‘An Introduction to Some Common Homeopathic Remedies’ here: Good Health Naturally Madeleine Innocent is a full time consultant homeopath and homeopathic coach. Visit Madeleine here: http://www.twolegsandfour.com/index7.html Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Madeleine_Innocent Information about Cold & Flu Season from Holistic Haven Pharmacy – www.holistichavenpharmacy.com – The Holistic Haven Holistic Health Store including Natural Homeopathic Remedies. Video Rating: 5 / 5 Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: cold , Duration , Easy , last , long , SEVEN , Shorten , Steps | No Comments » Hyland/Standard Homeopathic Night Time Cold N Cough 4 Kids 4 Oz ( Multi-Pack) December 23rd, 2011 | Author: kk Hyland/Standard Homeopathic Night Time Cold N Cough 4 Kids 4 Oz ( Multi-Pack) DOUBLE VALUE PACK! You are buying TWO of Hyland/Standard Homeopathic Night Time Cold N Cough 4 Kids 4 Oz Quantity: MULTI VALUE PACK! You are buying Description: COUGH&COLD,NIGHT,4 KIDS Unit Size: 4 OZ Brand: HYLANDS HOMEOPATHIC DOUBLE VALUE PACK of Hyland/Standard Homeopathic Night Time Cold N Cough 4 Kids 4 Oz - List Price: $  19.78 Price: $  9.59 Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: cold , cough , Homeopathic , Hyland/Standard , Kids' , MultiPack , night. , time | No Comments » Natra Bio – Children’s Cold & Flu, 1 fl oz liquid December 11th, 2011 | Author: kk Natra Bio – Children’s Cold & Flu, 1 fl oz liquid Serving Size – 0.5 ml Does Not Contain: Sugar. Children’s Cold & Flu provides relief for the symptoms of congestion, sore throat, nausea and vomiting, sneezing and runny nose, headache and body aches. List Price: $  8.49 Price: $  3.97 Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: Children`s , cold , liquid , Natra | 3 Comments » Cold In Hand December 9th, 2011 | Author: kk Cold In Hand Cold In Hand List Price: 26.0 Price: 15.09 Kold Kare Cold & Flu – 40 – Tablet KOLD KARE® , Cold, Flu, Sinusitis & Allergy       Relief – Andrographis paniculata, the active ingredient in KARE-N-HERBS       e… Cold Sores Begone Cold Sores Begone help prevent and relieve the discomfort associated with cold sores and fever blisters…. Novitra Homeopathic Cold Sore Cream, Maximum Strength , .25 oz (7.1 g) Immediate Action.  Clinically proven to shorten the duration of cold sores.  Use at the first sign.  Homeopathic.Natural relief… Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: cold , Hand | No Comments » Set of 6 CareKits From Boiron, Quit Smoking, Quit Snoring, Cold Sore, Hot Flashes, Sinus and Jet Leg November 6th, 2011 | Author: kk Set of 6 CareKits From Boiron, Quit Smoking, Quit Snoring, Cold Sore, Hot Flashes, Sinus and Jet Leg Homeopathic Medication Every Care-kit comes inside 3 tubes of pellets for a total of 18 tubes Disclaimer: This website is for informational purposes only. Always check the actual product label in your possession for the most accurate ingredient information due to product changes or upgrades that may not yet be reflected on our web site. These statements made in this website have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The products offered are not intended to diagnose, treat This is a set of 6 different Care-kits from Borion, Quit Smoking, Quit Snoring, Cold Sore, Hot Flashes, Sinus and Jet Leg. List Price: $  119.99 Price: $  29.99 Posted in Smoking Cessation | Tags: Boiron , CareKits , cold , Flashes , from , Quit , Sinus , Smoking , Snoring , Sore | No Comments » Cold-Eeze Sugar Free Pomegranate Flavor Cold Drop Lozenges – 18 /Bag October 27th, 2011 | Author: kk Cold-Eeze Sugar Free Pomegranate Flavor Cold Drop Lozenges – 18 /Bag Cold-Eeze homeopathic sugar free cold remedy lozenges reduces the duration of the common cold. It is clinically proven to reduce the duration of the common cold. No Artificial Colors or Preservatives. INDICATIONS: Cold-Eeze Sugar Free Pomegranate Flavor Cold Drop Lozenges – 18 /Bag, natural pomegranate reduces the duration of the common cold. Homeopathic   Take at the first sign of a cold. List Price: $  5.06 Price: $  5.06 Posted in Cough & Cold | Tags: /Bag , cold , ColdEeze , Drop , Flavor , Free , Lozenges , Pomegranate , Sugar | No Comments » Page 1 of 12 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 ... » Last » Copyright © 2009 DOCTORSHAZIA.COM. All Rights Rese