
Acupuncture Home | Pain 
                                    Overview | Types 
                                    of Pain | Treatment 
                                    Methods | Chiropractors | Anesthesiologists | Biofeedback Massage | Pain Management Drugs | Glossary 
                                    of Pain Drugs | Top Pain Programs | Pain 
                                    Associations | Pain 
                                    Doctors | Pain 
                                    Terminology | Insurance | Site 
                                    Map Local Guides - All States - New York City - Los Angeles - Chicago - Houston - Phoenix - Philadelphia - San Antonio - San Diego - Florida - New York State - Dallas - Georgia - Atlanta - San Jose - Detroit - Jacksonville - Indianapolis - San Francisco - Columbus - Austin - Fort Worth - Memphis - Charlotte - Baltimore - El Paso - Milwaukee - Madison - Boston - Seattle - Nashville - Denver - Washington - Las Vegas - Louisville Penny Auction Ratings The People Have Spoken. Take a look at how they rated the Top 
40 Penny Auction Sites. Then cast your vote for the #1 site! AuctionSites101.com Acupuncture What is acupuncture? Acupuncture is one of the oldest, most commonly 
            used medical procedures in the world. Originating in China more than 
            2,000 years ago, acupuncture began to become better known in the 
            United States in 1971, when New York Times reporter James Reston 
            wrote about how doctors in China used needles to ease his pain after 
            surgery. The term acupuncture describes a family of procedures involving 
            stimulation of anatomical points on the body by a variety of 
            techniques. American practices of acupuncture incorporate medical 
            traditions from China, Japan, Korea, and other countries. The 
            acupuncture technique that has been most studied scientifically 
            involves penetrating the skin with thin, solid, metallic needles 
            that are manipulated by the hands or by electrical stimulation. How widely is acupuncture used in the United 
            States? In the past two decades, acupuncture has grown in 
            popularity in the United States. The report from a Consensus 
            Development Conference on Acupuncture held at the National 
            Institutes of Health (NIH) in 1997 stated that acupuncture is being 
            "widely" practiced--by thousands of physicians, dentists, 
            acupuncturists, and other practitioners--for relief or prevention of 
            pain and for various other health conditions. According to the 2002 National Health Interview 
            Survey--the largest and most comprehensive survey of complementary and alternative medicine, a 
            group of diverse medical and health care systems, practices, and 
            products that are not presently considered to be part of 
            conventional medicine. Complementary medicine is used together with 
            conventional medicine, and alternative medicine is used in place of 
            conventional medicine. use by American adults to date-- an 
            estimated 8.2 million U.S. adults had ever used acupuncture, and an 
            estimated 2.1 million U.S. adults had used acupuncture in the 
            previous year. A cupuncture 
    may reduce pain in  more than 50% of back pain patients and for 65-70% of 
    headache sufferers , according to rehabilitation medicine specialists at the 
    New York University Medical Center. It has also proven useful for arthritis 
    patients.  Many specialists agree that patients report benefit when the 
    needles are placed near where it hurts, not at the body points indicated on 
    traditional Chinese acupuncture charts.  The case for acupuncture has been 
    made by investigators who argue that local needling of the skin excites 
    endorphin systems of pain control. A 2003 Marketdata study on pain management programs found that 2% of 
            pain practitioners used acupuncture as a treatment method  in 
            2003. Key Points Acupuncture originated in China more than 2,000 years ago, making 
              it one of the oldest and most commonly used medical procedures in 
              the world. It is important to inform all of your health care providers 
              about any treatment that you are using or considering, including 
              acupuncture. Ask about the treatment procedures that will be used 
              and their likelihood of success for your condition or disease. Be an informed consumer and find out what scientific studies 
              have been done on the effectiveness of acupuncture for your health 
              condition. If you decide to use acupuncture, choose the practitioner with 
              care. Also check with your insurer to see if the services will be 
              covered. What does acupuncture feel like? Acupuncture needles are metallic, solid, and 
            hair-thin. People experience acupuncture differently, but most feel 
            no or minimal pain as the needles are inserted. Some people are 
            energized by treatment, while others feel relaxed. 3 Improper needle placement, movement of the patient, or a defect in 
            the needle can cause soreness and pain during treatment. 4 This is why it is important to seek treatment from a qualified 
            acupuncture practitioner. Is acupuncture safe? The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved 
            acupuncture needles for use by licensed practitioners in 1996. The 
            FDA requires that sterile, nontoxic needles be used and that they be 
            labeled for single use by qualified practitioners only. Relatively few complications from the use of acupuncture have 
            been reported to the FDA in light of the millions of people treated 
            each year and the number of acupuncture needles used. Still, 
            complications have resulted from inadequate sterilization of needles 
            and from improper delivery of treatments. Practitioners should use a 
            new set of disposable needles taken from a sealed package for each 
            patient and should swab treatment sites with alcohol or another 
            disinfectant before inserting needles. When not delivered properly, 
            acupuncture can cause serious adverse effects, including infections 
            and punctured organs. Does acupuncture work? According to the NIH Consensus Statement on 
            Acupuncture, there have been many studies on acupuncture's potential 
            usefulness, but results have been mixed because of complexities with 
            study design and size, as well as difficulties with choosing and 
            using placebos or sham acupuncture. However, promising results have 
            emerged, showing efficacy of acupuncture, for example, in adult 
            postoperative and chemotherapy nausea and vomiting and in 
            postoperative dental pain. There are other situations--such as 
            addiction, stroke rehabilitation, headache, menstrual cramps, tennis 
            elbow, fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, osteoarthritis, low-back pain, 
            carpal tunnel syndrome, and asthma--in which acupuncture may be 
            useful as an adjunct treatment or an acceptable alternative or be 
            included in a comprehensive management program. An NCCAM (Natl. Center for Complementary & 
            Alternative Medicine) funded study showed that acupuncture provides 
            pain relief, improves function for people with osteoarthritis of the 
            knee, and serves as an effective complement to standard care. Further research is likely to uncover additional areas 
            where acupuncture interventions will be useful. How much does acupuncture cost? A practitioner should inform you about the 
            estimated number of treatments needed and how much each will cost. 
            If this information is not provided, ask for it. Treatment may take 
            place over a few days or for several weeks or more. Physician 
            acupuncturists may charge more than non-physician practitioners. Will it be covered by my insurance? Acupuncture is one of the CAM therapies that are 
            more commonly covered by insurance. However, you should check with 
            your insurer before you start treatment to see whether acupuncture 
            will be covered for your condition and, if so, to what extent. Some 
            insurance plans require preauthorization for acupuncture. What to expect during your  first visit? During your first office visit, the practitioner 
            may ask you at length about your health condition, lifestyle, and 
            behavior. The practitioner will want to obtain a complete picture of 
            your treatment needs and behaviors that may contribute to your 
            condition. Inform the acupuncturist about all treatments or 
            medications you are taking and all medical conditions you have. How does one  find a 
            licensed acupuncture practitioner? Health care practitioners can be a resource for 
            referral to acupuncturists. More medical doctors, including 
            neurologists, anesthesiologists, and specialists in physical 
            medicine, are becoming trained in acupuncture, TCM, and other CAM 
            therapies. In addition, national acupuncture organizations (which 
            can be found through libraries or Web search engines) may provide 
            referrals to acupuncturists. For More Information NCCAM Clearinghouse The NCCAM Clearinghouse provides information on CAM and on NCCAM, 
            including publications and searches of Federal databases of 
            scientific and medical literature. The Clearinghouse does not 
            provide medical advice, treatment recommendations, or referrals to 
            practitioners. Toll-free in the U.S.: 1-888-644-6226 TTY (for deaf and hard-of-hearing callers): 1-866-464-3615 Web site: nccam.nih.gov E-mail: info@nccam.nih.gov Pain Articles - Arthritis Pain - TMJ Pain - Back Pain - Joint Pain - Knee Pain - Neck Pain - Pelvic Pain - Cancer Pain - Chronic Pain - Shingles Pain - Shoulder Pain - Myofascial Pain - Abdominal Pain - Neuropathic Pain - Athletes and Pain - Fibromyalgia Pain - Pinched Nerve Pain - Repetitive Stress Pain - Headaches & Migraines - Irritable Bowel Syndrome - Temporomandibular Joint - Pain MD's & Specialists - Pain Doctors CARF List - About Painkillers Online - Acupuncture - At-Home PCA - Biofeedback Services - Botox Injections - Brain Stimulation - Herbal Remedies - Magnetic Therapy - Nerve Blocks - Pain Clinics - Pain Medications - Physical Therapy - Psychotherapy - Saline Injections - Spinal Cord Stimulation - Trigger Point Injections - Links and Resources Home | Sitemap | Privacy 
                        Statement | About 
                        Us | Advertising 
                        & Links Policy | Contact 
                        Us | Email this page | Recommended 
                        Sites Note: 
                    Pain101.com does NOT provide medical advice or diagnoses.  You should always consult your physician first, before beginning any 
                    pain management regimen or if you are suffering from a medical condition. Copyright Â© 2012 Marketdata Enterprises, Inc.  All 
                        Rights Reserved. BestDietForMe.com | Sleepweb.com | MyPersona