
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 13:52:36 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 12:52:36 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Tract Infection in Women - Urinary Tract Infection in Women Description - Urinary Tract Infection in Women Symptoms - Urinary Tract Infection in Women Prevention - Urinary Tract Infection in Women Treatment About.com Health Symptom Checker Symptom Checker Search Symptom Checker Lab Test Interpreter Share Send to a Friend Urinary Tract Infection in Women • What Is It? • Symptoms • Diagnosis • Expected Duration • Prevention • Treatment • When To Call A Professional • Prognosis • Additional Info What Is It? A urinary tract infection is an infection involving the organs that produce urine and carry it out of the body. These structures include the kidneys, ureters (long, slender tubes connecting the kidneys with the bladder), bladder and urethra. Doctors often divide urinary tract infections into two types, lower tract infections and upper tract infections: Lower tract infections These include cystitis (bladder infection) and urethritis (infection of the urethra). Bacteria normally found in the intestine are the main cause of lower urinary tract infections. These bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra and bladder, where they grow, invade the tissue and cause infection. Upper tract infections These involve the ureters and kidneys. These infections are called pyelonephritis or kidney infections. Upper urinary tract infections usually occur because bacteria travel up from the bladder into the kidney. Sometimes, they occur when bacteria travel from other areas of the body through the bloodstream and settle in the kidney. There are about 8 million cases of urinary tract infections diagnosed each year in the United States. Women are affected more often than men, especially sexually active women, because sexual intercourse can cause bacteria to spread upward into the bladder. Also, the use of contraceptive diaphragms and spermicides may change the normal bacterial environment around the urethra and make infection more likely. In pregnant women, temporary changes in the physiology and anatomy of the urinary tract make expectant mothers prime candidates for cystitis and pyelonephritis. Kidney and bladder infections can pose a serious risk to pregnant women and their unborn children, because they increase the risk of premature contractions or delivery and sometimes death of the fetus or newborn infant. Symptoms Urinary tract infection can cause one or more of the following symptoms: Unusually frequent urination An intense urge to urinate Pain, discomfort or a burning sensation during urination Pain, pressure or tenderness in the area of the bladder (midline, above or near the pubic area) Urine that looks cloudy, or smells foul or unusually strong Fever, with or without chills Nausea and vomiting Pain in the side or mid-to-upper back Waking from sleep to pass urine Bedwetting in a person who has usually been dry at night Diagnosis Your doctor will ask you about your symptoms and whether you have had a urinary tract infection before. He or she also will ask you about your sexual history, including any history of sexually transmitted diseases for yourself and your partner, condom use, multiple partners, use of diaphragm and/or spermicides and whether you could be pregnant. Your doctor also will ask if you have any other medical problems, such as diabetes, which can make you more likely to develop infections. You will be asked to give a urine sample, which will be tested in a laboratory to see if it contains bacteria or other signs of infection. Your urine also may be tested to identify the specific type of bacteria and the specific antibiotics that can be used to eliminate the bacteria. If you have a fever or other symptoms of an upper tract infection, your doctor probably will also draw a sample of your blood and send it to a laboratory to be tested for bacteria. This is called a blood culture. In people with symptoms of a severe kidney infection or frequent episodes of lower or upper urinary tract infections, additional testing may be needed, such as: An intravenous pyelogram (IVP), which shows an outline of your urinary tract on X-rays A computed tomography (CT) scan of your kidneys and urinary system An ultrasound exam Cystoscopy, an examination in which your doctor checks the inside of your bladder using a thin, hollow telescope-like instrument. Expected Duration With proper treatment, most uncomplicated urinary tract infections can be cured in two to three days. It may take several days for the symptoms of a kidney infection to completely go away. Prevention To help prevent urinary tract infections: Drink several glasses of water each day. Fluids discourage the growth of bacteria by flushing out your urinary tract. Drinking cranberry juice or taking vitamin C supplements also may deter bacterial growth by making your urine more acidic. Wipe from front to back. To prevent the spread of intestinal bacteria from the rectum to the urinary tract, women always should wipe toilet tissue from front to the back after having a bowel movement. Decrease the spread of bacteria during sex. If possible, cleanse the area around your genitals before having sex. Urinate after sexual intercourse to flush bacteria from your bladder. If you keep getting infections, you should talk to your doctor about using antibiotics after sex to lower the risk of developing urinary tract infections. Treatment Doctors treat simple urinary tract infections with antibiotics. Laboratory testing can determine the best antibiotic for treatment. Most uncomplicated lower tract infections are treated with a three-day course of antibiotics, although women who are pregnant, or who have diseases such as diabetes that suppress the immune system, usually need to take antibiotics for longer. People with severe upper tract infections may require hospital treatment with antibiotics given through a vein (intravenously). This is especially true if nausea, vomiting and fever increase the risk of dehydration and prevent the person from taking oral antibiotics. When To Call A Professional Call your doctor whenever you have frequent urination, an intense urge to urinate, discomfort during urination or other symptoms of a urinary tract infection. You also should seek medical attention if you have symptoms of a kidney infection, such as fever, nausea, vomiting and pain in the side or back. It is especially important for any pregnant woman who has symptoms of an upper or lower urinary tract infection to call her doctor immediately. Prognosis Once a woman has been cured of cystitis, she has a 20% chance of developing a second infection. After the second infection, she has a 30% risk of developing a third. If a woman has three or more episodes of cystitis within one year and the structure or anatomy of the urinary tract is normal, her doctor may prescribe a special antibiotic regimen to decrease the risk of future infections. Women with frequent infections also can monitor their urine with special dipsticks to detect the first signs of bacteria in the urine, even before symptoms of infection begin. Additional Info National Institute of Diabetes & Digestive & Kidney Disorders Office of Communications and Public Liaison Building 31, Room 9A04 31 Center Drive, MSC 2560 Bethesda, MD 20892-2560 Phone: (301) 496-4000 E-Mail: niddk_inquiries@nih.gov http://www.niddk.nih.gov/ American Foundation for Urologic Disease 1000 Corporate Blvd. Suite 410 Linthicum, MD 21090 Phone: (410) 689-3990 Toll-Free: (800) 828-7866 Fax: (410) 689-3998 Fax: (410) 689-3998 http://www.afud.org/ Online Medical Reviewer: Faculty of Harvard Medical School Date Last Reviewed: 4/16/2005 Date Last Modified: 4/18/2005 Source: from Harvard Health Decision Guides, Harvard Health Publications, Copyright © 2007 by President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Symptom Checker content copyright © 2006 by President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Use of content is subject to Terms & Conditions and Medical Disclaimer . More information on Harvard Medical School's publications and services is available at http://www.health.harvard.edu . Related Articles Urinary Tract Infection - Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Treatments for UTI Understanding UTI Dysuria - Dysuria Description - Dysuria Symptoms - Dysuria Prevention ... Symptoms of Urinary Tract Infections - Bladder Infection - Kidney Infe... Women's Health, Urinary System Diseases and Conditions - Articles Symptom Checker About.com Health Symptom Checker Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.