Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Exercise for Lower Back Pain Exercise for Lower Back Pain This is one of my favourite types of exercise for lower back pain. Advertisement - Article Continues Below Level – moderate On  hands and knees Arch your lower back upwards ( a bit like the cat stretch in yoga) Don't rock forwards and backwards - your nose should stay pointing at the same place on the floor. Don't do press ups either - keep your elbows straight. Think about ‘tucking your tail in’ if you are having trouble with this. Make sure that you  stretch your lower back and not just the area between your shoulder blades. Practice tightening your lower stomach muscles to increase the stretch in your lower back area. Stretch slowly and with good control. Get someone to check it for you to make sure you are doing it right. See a video demonstration of this back stretching exercise below: I like this exercise because it has several  effects. It moves your low back, stretching muscles and ligaments. Its  good   for tightening the abdominal or 'core stability' muscles. It helps teach you how to move your pelvis independently of your lower back - something many people with lower back pain have problems with. This exercise can be paired with this back extension exercise to  increase the amount of extension or backwards bend in your low back. Advertisement - Article Continues Below Exercise for Lower Back Pain - Stretching Exercises Main Page Lower Back Pain Toolkit Home Page Home Free e-Course Manage Back Pain Book Back Pain Action Guide Anatomy The Human Spine Back Pain Causes Causes - Overview Non-Specific Back Pain Sciatica Piriformis Syndrome Pregnancy X-Ray and MRI  Scans Lumbar MRI and XRay Symptoms Where it hurts Numbness and Tingling How it Feels Active Treatments Sciatica Exercises Posture Exercise Hub Stretch Exercises Core Stability Fitness Hub Fitness Ideas Back Pain Products Back Support Cushions Best  Mattress Back Pain Treatment Types of Treatment All About Pain Understand Pain Chronic v Acute Pain News and Research Guidelines News/Research Back Pain Blog Essentials Disclaimer Your Questions Site Map Contact About Me Search Subscribe To This Site Custom Search Share | Don't Let Back Pain
      Stop 
    You Living a Normal Life The Back Pain Action Guide is a six step programme that shows you how   you can keep living a normal life and stop worrying about your back   pain. Click on the image   of the book to learn more about what's inside. About Me | Privacy | Terms and Conditions | Disclaimer | *Finance | Contact Copyright © 2006-2012 Paula Fitzpatrick. All rights reserved. By reading this web site you agree to accept our terms and conditions . The general information on this web site  is designed to support,  not replace,  specific medical advice or the relationship between you and your health care provider.  Always seek  specific advice from a physician or oth