
Eniva Vitamins, Minerals, Electrolyte Water, and Nutiritional Supplements Acupuncture Web www.vitaminlore.com www.eniva.com Web www.vitaminlore.com www.eniva.com . Acupuncture References Acupuncture has been used to treat a variety of illnesses for more than 2,000 years.
Acupuncture is a component of the traditional Chinese
medicine (TCM) system of medicine. As such, a diagnosis based on TCM is generally made
prior to the administration of acupuncture needles. This TCM diagnosis, which is much
different than diagnosis in Western medicine, is based on a practitioner’s observation
(of the pulse and tongue) and a thorough patient interview. The patient interview is useful
for assessing the body’s balance of yin and yang (hot or cold properties), for
evaluating deficiency or excess patterns of disease, and for determining the state of the
body’s internal organs and channels. Once an assessment is made, a series of acupuncture
points is selected to improve the balance of yin and yang, to harmonize a deficient or excess
condition, and to nourish the organ or channel involved in the disease process. Stimulation of
the selected acupoints (situated along ‘meridians’ in the body) by inserting
needles is believed to promote the flow of energy through the system, and thereby restore the
body’s balance. The theory of the channels is fundamental to the understanding of acupuncture. There are
365 mapped acupuncture points along the 12 major channels, as well as over a thousand extra
points found on the hand, ear, and scalp. Qi (pronounced “chi”) is the energy
moved through the channels and the movement of qi helps to balance yin and yang, balance an
excess or deficiency in the body, and nourish the internal organs. Acupuncture is the insertion of needles into specific acupoints found on the body
meridians. Manipulation of the needle following insertion can assist with moving the qi, and
can help to nourish or sedate the channel. Certain acupuncture techniques, such as the
insertion of the needle at various times during inhalation or exhalation, are thought to
affect the outcome of treatment. 1 Other methods frequently used in a TCM treatment
include cupping (the use of suction cups to draw heat from the body), guasha (the use of
spoons to apply friction to the skin), moxibustion (the use of burning mugwort to heat the
acupoints), electroacupuncture (the addition of an electrical current to the acupuncture
needles), and tuina (chinese massage). Electroacupuncture utilizes an external source of
electricity attached to the acupuncture needles to create a current across two or more
acupoints. Electroacupuncture is frequently used in scientific research. Although acupuncture
has received much attention by the media, herbs used in a TCM treatment are of equal or
greater importance to the overall treatment. Chinese herbal (patent) formulas have been
researched extensively in Asia; however, there is very little research to assess the outcome
of both an acupuncture and herbal program used simultaneously to treat disease. The most common clinical applications of acupuncture include the control of pain , migraine , asthma , depression , and
alcohol and drug addiction. There are some fundamental differences between the eastern and
western systems of medicine, which make it difficult to study the efficacy of acupuncture
using double-blind placebo-controlled trials. Since TCM is a multilayered system of diagnosis,
it is possible to have several TCM diagnoses that would describe one western medical
diagnosis. For example, a flu is a viral illness in western medicine. But in TCM there are
many types of flu and the diagnosis depends on other associated symptoms such as fever or
chills, cough or runny nose, back pain or digestive upset. Therefore the treatment of a flu
with TCM could utilize a variety of different acupoints, depending on the type of flu. Many of
the scientific studies that are performed to test the efficacy of acupuncture have allowed for
individualization of treatment; however, in many others a standard protocol, or a single point
procedure was used. These differences may partly explain the conflicting nature of some
acupuncture research. Acupuncture has been used in connection with the following
conditions (refer to the individual health concern for complete information): Acne Allergy Angina Asthma Carpal tunnel syndrome Constipation Depression Dysmenorrhea Erectile dysfunction Fibromyalgia High blood pressure Infertility (female) Infertility (male) Insomnia Menopause Migraine Psoriasis Shingles Tinnitus Urinary tract infection References: 1. Tanaka TH, Leisman G, Nishijo K. The physiological responses induced
by superficial acupuncture: a comparative study of acupuncture stimulation during exhalation
phase and continuous stimulation. Int J Neurosci 1997;90:45–58. Copyright © 2002 VitaminLore, Inc.  All rights reserved.
www.VitaminLore.com Click here Buy Vitamins and Nutritional Supplements at very low prices.. Buy Brand name Vitamins for less from www.vitaminlore.com.. The information presented in VitaminLore Online is for
informational purposes only. It is based on scientific studies (human, animal, or in
vitro ), clinical experience, or traditional usage as cited in each article. The results
reported may not necessarily occur in all individuals. For many of the conditions discussed,
treatment with prescription or over-the-counter medication is also available. Consult your
doctor, practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any
supplements or before making any changes i