
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 06:15:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 06:15:58 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | plymouth-hypnotherapist Skip to navigation Skip to content plymouth-hypnotherapist Search: Navigation Home About Me Profile My Training My Registration How I Work About Hypnotherapy What are Hypnosis and Hypnotism? Psychotherapy and Counselling What is Hypnotherapy? How Does Hypnotherapy Work? Hypnosis Fact and Fiction Choosing a Hypnotherapist Common Problems Hypnotherapy for Anxiety Phobia and Panic Hypnotherapy and Stress Hypnotherapy for Weight Loss Hypnotherapy and Depression Hypnotherapy and Relationships Hypnosis and Sexuality Hypnotherapy for Confidence Hypnosis and Physical Problems Hypnosis to Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy for Complex Problems Hypnotherapy for Other Problems Blog Location and Payment Contact Me LINKS 1.9.4.2 You are here: Home » Common Problems » Hypnosis to Stop Smoking News General Page 1 of 8 > >> Apr  3, 2012 Thinking and Destiny Category: General Posted by: Pete A few simple words that summarise how we create our own character and destiny. This process is the key to making changes in your life, with or without the help of a hypnotherapist or counsellor. [ More ] Mar 20, 2012 Why I don't advertise on Facebook Category: General Posted by: Pete More and more of us use Facebook these days, and it is a convenient means of exchanging news on a fairly trivial level. However, recent experiences have reminded me that there's no such thing as privacy, once you go online. This especially applies to Facebook. [ More ] Feb 27, 2012 The Truth About Regression Category: General Posted by: Pete Hypnotic regression is widely known through TV programmes like "The X Files". However, no accurate information can be obtained through this method. It's especially dangerous in cases where sexual abuse in childhood is suspected. [ More ] Hypnosis to Stop Smoking WOULDN'T IT BY GREAT IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE TO SMOKE! No more huddling in the cold and rain outside your workplace. No more health-related worries. No more trying not to look at those disgusting pictures on the cigarette or tobacco packets . No more being out-of-breath, skin drying up, hair and clothes smelling of stale smoke. No more getting irritable due to running out of cigarettes, or due to being somewhere where you're not allowed to smoke. No more guilt about your kids maybe following your example. No more money going up in smoke. There's so many good reasons t o stop smoking, and no reason whatsoever to continue. So what's been keeping you? NICOTINE ADDICTION is part of the reason why many people have difficulty stopping smoking, as the withdrawal symptoms include restlessness and irritability. But the physical symptoms of withdrawal are only one part of the problem. That's why nicotine patches and inhalers have such a poor success rate, because they don't address the mental side of the problem. STRESS is generally the biggest factor. When people smoke they  generally breathe out slowly, which helps them to relax (Nicotine  itself does not relax them since it is actually a nerve stimulant). I recognise that many smokers have used smoking as their only means of stress control, so they need to learn another way to relax themselves so they won't be missing anything by stopping smoking. For very stressed clients this may take more than one session, which is why I only charge my standard rate of £35 per session for help with stopping smoking, instead of a much bigger fee upfront for a single long session. HABIT is another factor. Smokers associate smoking with other activities such as taking a break from work or talking on the telephone. These activities then automatically suggest the idea of smoking. At your first session we'll go through your entire day, agreeing what you will be doing instead of smoking in each of these situations. PEER PRESSURE is another problem, because smokers often sabotage other smokers’ attempts to quit, by offering them cigarettes, especially when they appear stressed. At your first session, we'll look at how you will resist this pressure. HYPNOSIS helps firstly by enabling you to control your emotional reactions, calming the restlessness and irritability of the withdrawal period. Hypnotherapy also enables you to see the future benefits of quitting more vividly, which counteracts any temporary discomfort. Hypnotherapy also strengthens your willpower and self-esteem, helping you resist pressure and temptation. MY CLIENTS ARE GENERALLY SURPRISED HOW EASILY THEY STOP SMOKING WITH HYPNOTIC TREATMENT. And a very large proportion of my stop-smoking clients are referred by previous satisfied customers, who also commonly refer their family and friends for help with many other problems. I DO NOT OFFER A "ONE SIZE FITS ALL" SERVICE. Every smoker is different, and needs a personalised approach. I use my long experience, training and knowledge of psychology in helping smokers, just as when I help with more complex problems. Every client has a free initial consulation first, to decide a treatment plan. Click here for the contact form , to arrange your free initial consulation at my Plymouth city centre office. UNDERLYING PROBLEMS such as anxiety or depression will need to be addressed if they exist, as smoking may have been a way of easing these problems. CANNABIS smoking also responds to hypnotherapy. If you really want to quit tobacco you need to quit cannabis as well. Also, it is a bad idea to smoke cigars or a pipe after you quit smoking cigarettes, as this will feed your nicotine addiction, keeping it alive. I PROMISE YOU THAT IN MY PRACTICE, YOU'LL NEVER BE MADE TO FEEL BAD ABOUT YOURSELF FOR BEING A SMOKER, EVEN IF YOU LAPSE. PREVIOUS FAILURE TO QUIT WILL BE DISCUSSED IN A NON-JUDGEMENTAL WAY, TO LEARN FROM WHAT WENT WRONG AND FIND WAYS TO GUARD AGAINST THAT DANGER SHOULD IT COME AGAIN. IF YOU LEARN FROM YOUR PREVIOUS FAILURES, THEN EVERY FAILURE WILL HELP YOU TO SUCCEED NEXT TIME! ^  Top Previous page: Hypnosis and Physical Problems Next page: Hypnotherapy for Complex Problems Home About Me About Hypnotherapy Common Problems Blog Location and Payment Contact Me LINKS Hypnotherapy for Anxiety Phobia and Panic Hypnotherapy and Stress Hypnotherapy for Weight Loss Hypnotherapy and Depression Hypnotherapy and Relationships Hypnosis and Sexuality Hypnotherapy for Confidence Hypnosis and Physical Problems Hypnosis to Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy for Complex Problems Hypnotherapy for Other Problems © Copyright 2004-2012 - CMS Made Si