
Acupuncture Retreat - Home Helping Patients From Los Gatos, Monte Sereno, Saratoga, Campbe ll, Cupertino, Sunnyvale, Los Altos, Mountain View, San Jose, Palo Alto, MorganHill and The Greater Bay Area Welcome to Acupuncture Retreat! Dr. Heidi Fu, RN, LAc., DAOM, Specializes in: For your Health: Pain and Infertility Treatment For your Beauty: Facial Rejuvenation Acupuncture For your Well-Being: Stress and Emotional Balance Dr. Fu started practicing both TCM (Traditional Chinese Medicine) and Western Medicine while serving in the Chinese Air Force General Hospital, Beijing, China. Dr. Fu has treated a wide spectrum of health issues with great success including Pain, Infertility, Stress, Depression, Anxiety, Premenstrual Syndrome(PMS),low libido / loss of sex drive, weight loss and other conditions. She promotes Women and Men's Health, Beauty and Well-being. Dr. Heidi Fu, California Board licensed acupuncturist and Doctor of Acupuncture of Oriental Medicine (DAOM), has over 17 years of experience treating patients ranging from ages 3 to 86 years old in the health care field. Our Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine clinic is located in the beautiful city of Los Gatos, California. At Acupuncture Retreat, we are dedicated to bringing health and healing to our patients thru acupuncture and chinese medicine. Millions of people have found acupuncture to be a better solution than drugs or surgery. With a 3,000-year history, acupuncture successfully addresses chronic ailments and manages pain. Acupuncture is a safe, painless, healthy alternative for treating: Arthritis, fibromyalgia, back pain and carpal tunnel Allergies, asthma and other respiratory problems Gastrointestinal issues, Lost weight Gynecological problems like infertility and PMS Depression, anxiety, insomnia and stress And many more physical, emotional and neurological issues Acupuncture Slideshow: Back Pain, Headaches, Cancer, Fertility An ancient Chinese practice using ultra-thin needles may ease back pain, Headaches, infertility, depression,anxiety and cancer treatments... WebMD's slideshow covers the truth about acupuncture. Study: Acupuncture Good For Aching Backs (CBS/AP)  Fake acupuncture works nearly as well as the real thing for low back pain, and either kind performs much better than usual care, German researchers have found. Almost half the patients treated with acupuncture needles felt relief that lasted months. In contrast, only about a quarter of the patients receiving medications and other Western medical treatments felt better. Even fake acupuncture worked better than conventional care, leading researchers to wonder whether pain relief came from the body's reactions to any thin needle pricks or, possibly, the placebo effect. "Acupuncture represents a highly promising and effective treatment option for chronic back pain," study co-author Dr. Heinz Endres of Ruhr University Bochum in Bochum, Germany, said in an e-mail. "Patients experienced not only reduced pain intensity, but also reported improvements in the disability that often results from back pain and, therefore, in their quality of life." http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2007/09/25/earlyshow/health/main3294885.shtml What Is Acupuncture? Acupuncture is an age-old healing practice of traditional Chinese medicine in which thin needles are placed at specific points in the body. It's primarily used to relieve pain but also has been used to treat other conditions. More than 3 million Americans use acupuncture, but it is even more popular in other countries. In France, for example, one in five people has tried acupuncture. Understanding Acupuncture Time To Try It? Acupuncture is a traditional medicine that’s been practiced in China and other Asian countries for thousands of years. Its proponents say it can do everything from relieving pain to bringing a general sense of wellness. Others think the only benefits you get from acupuncture are in your head. Recent studies have found that both sides may have a point. Acupuncture can be effective for certain health problems, such as some types of chronic pain. But how it works is something of a mystery. Acupuncture is the stimulation of specific points on the body. The methods can vary, but the most well known type in the United States is the insertion of thin metal needles through the skin. At least 3 million adults nationwide use acupuncture every year, according to the latest estimates. http://newsinhealth.nih.gov/issue/Feb2011/Feature1 Acupressure vs. Acupuncture If you are afraid of needles, you may be able to get much of the same effect from acupressure. Acupressure involves pressing or massaging the acupuncture points to stimulate the energy pathways. Scientific comparisons of acupressure and acupuncture are limited, but acupressure has been shown to be effective in reducing nausea and lessening labor pain. Here are very good chart to check your Qi Cycle around clock. In TCM we use acupuncture work around organ-health Qi Cycle... 24-hour Organ Qi Cycle Roll your cursor over the Organ names within the colour wheel to learn more about the emotions connected with each organ. http://www.astrodreamadvisor.com/Qi-Cycle.html We Accept Most Insurance PPO plan from: Anthem Blue Cross, Aetna, Blue Shield, Cigna, Great-West, United HealthCare and many other insurance companies... We will provide a billing statement and invoice for your health savings account (HSA), or flexible spending account (FSA). Sent us E-mail: dr.heidifu@gmail.com Text-SMS or Call for your appointment today: (408)-982-7277 Please tell us the best two or three time slots for your appointment and we will do our best to match your schedule. To find out how we can help you return to optimal health, beauty and wellness! The Acupuncture newsletter for you this month from "Qi Mail": Five Top Men's Health Concerns and How Acupuncture Can Help Acupuncture has been used to treat men's health concerns for Cardiovascular Disease Lung Cancer Prostate Health Depression and Mental Health Sexual Health Surprising Causes of Male Infertility An adolescent groin injury, cigarette smoking, heavy drinking, intense cycling and even using a laptop directly on the lap can compromise male fertility. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303627104576411630724741052.html Women's Health Concerns and How Acupuncture Can Help The biggest threats to women's health are often preventable. Oriental medicine has always addressed the special needs of women throughout their lives and many health issues women face respond extremely well to acupuncture treatments. Taking small steps to improve your health can make a difference. Top health concerns affecting women and how acupuncture can help are: Cardiovascular Disease Cancer Osteoporosis Depression Autoimmune Diseases Menopause and Gynecological Health With support from Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine along with small changes in lifestyle and diet, menopause can be a time of a revival of vital energy and an opportunity for personal growth. Acupuncture in the News: Acupuncture: A Cure for Infertility? Foxnews NEW YORK —  At 36, Lucy Appert has suffered through two miscarriages, a stillbirth at 8 1/2 months and, because of a rare pregnancy-related liver dysfunction, intensive illness and surgery.Yet after enduring five painful years of trying to have their own baby , Appert and her husband Edward finally saw their dream come true last month when their son Henry was born — premature, but healthy.For all the fertility treatments, technologies and prenatal care available to women today, Appert credits the success of her pregnancy to an ancient Chinese secret. "I recommend acupuncture (search) to everyone," Appert said. "It does work. I did everything possible for years to have a baby. I almost lost hope."The millennias-old Asian medical practice — in which the acupuncturist places tiny needles in various pressure points, or "Qi" (Chee), in the body to improve circulation and reduce stress — has been around in the United States for years as an "alternative" treatment for numerous ailments.But recently, acupuncture has been picking up steam as a possible remedy for female infertility, with a handful of American and European studies showing that it enhances the success rate of in vitro fertilization (IVF). http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,154472,00.html Infertility FAQ's What is infertility? Infertility means not being able to get pregnant after one year of trying. Or, six months, if a woman is 35 years of age or older. Women who can get pregnant but are unable to stay pregnant may also be infertile. Pregnancy is the result of a process that has many steps. To get pregnant— A woman’s body must release an egg from one of her ovaries (ovulation). The egg must go through a fallopian tube toward the uterus (womb). A man's sperm must join with (fertilize) the egg along the way. The fertilized egg must attach to the inside of the uterus (implantation). Infertility can happen if there are problems with any of these steps. Is infertility a common problem? Yes. About 10 % of women (6.1 million) in the United States ages 15–44 years have difficulty getting pregnant or staying pregnant. http://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/Infertility/ The Ancient Art of Infertility Treatment When it comes to getting pregnant, old world techniques may be just what today's high-tech doctors will order. If headlines are any indication of what's hot and what's not, it's easy to believe that infertility treatment is strictly a modern day science, made possible solely through the courtesy of high-tech medicine. B ut as good as modern science is, many couples trying to get pregnant find themselves turning to an age-old treatment for help -- one so steeped in tradition it's about as far from life in the 21 century as one can get. That treatment is acupuncture , and today, even high-tech reproductive specialists are looking to the somewhat mysterious world of Chinese medicine to help those fertility patients for whom western science alone is not quite enough... Indeed, in a study of 160 women, published April 2002 in the reproductive journal Fertility and Sterility , a group of German researchers found that adding acupuncture to the traditional IVF treatment protocols substantially increased pregnancy success... In this study one group of 80 patients received two, 25-minute acupuncture treatments -- one prior to having fertilized embryos transferred into their uterus, and one directly afterwards. The second group of 80, who also underwent embryo transfer, received no acupuncture treatments. The result: While women in both groups got pregnant, the rate was significantly higher in the acupuncture group -- 34 pregnancies, compared with 21 in the women who received IVF alone... Many couples trying to get pregnant find themselves turning to an age-old treatment for help -- acupuncture -- and it's working. http://www.webmd.com/infertility-and-reproduction/features/ancient-art-of-infertility-treatment Turning breech babies with acupuncture Since the late nineties there has been evidence to suggest that your breech baby can be turned to its optimal position for birth using moxibustion, a Chinese medicine technique. http://www.essentialbaby.com.au/pregnancy/pregnancy-health/turning-breech-babies-with-acupuncture-20090812-ehp3.html Samuel L. Jackson talks about getting acupuncture "The 61-year-old relies on acupuncture to keep himself in shape, saying he can't get enough of the practice. "It's one of my favourite things. I get it all the time, like twice a week, for my well being," he told American talk show host Ellen Degeneres. "I just go and get my 'waa' put in place, and get everything moving."... http://www.stuff.co.nz/entertainment/film/3662149/Jackson-had-epidural-for-action-film#share I t is a great time to schedule your seasonal acupuncture treatment! T ext or call for more information (408)-982-7277 Science News Acupuncture Cuts Tension Headache Rates By Almost Half ScienceDaily (Aug. 1, 2005) — Acupuncture is an effective treatment for tension headache, cutting rates for sufferers by almost half, shows a study on bmj.com this week. An d a minimal acupuncture course works almost as well as traditional Chinese therapy, say the researchers. In a randomised controlled trial - the gold standard of clinical trials - researchers in Germany divided 270 patients with a similar severity of tension headache into three groups. Over an eight week period one set were treated with traditional acupuncture, one with minimal acupuncture (needles inserted only superficially into the skin, at non-acupuncture points), and one group had neither treatment ('control' group). Those receiving traditional acupuncture care saw their headache rates drop by almost half - suffering 7 days less headaches over the four weeks following the treatment. Those receiving minimal acupuncture had 6.6 less days of headaches. While the control group experienced 1.5 less days of headaches - a drop of just a tenth. Improvements to headache rates continued for months after the acupuncture treatment, though they began to rise slightly as time went on. Those in the 'no treatment' group were subsequently given acupuncture for eight weeks after the main study period. These patients also improved significantly after the treatment, though not to the same level as those given acupuncture initially. Of the 195 patients in the acupuncture groups, 37 reported some side effects - the most common being dizziness, other headaches and bruising. Such a small difference in results between traditional and minimal acupuncture treatments seems to indicate that the location of acupuncture points and other aspects of traditional Chinese acupuncture do not make a major difference for tension headache, say the authors. Acupuncture treatments are sometimes associated with strong placebo effects, caution the authors. But these findings show that acupuncture produces just as good improvements for tension headache sufferers as treatments already accepted, they conclude. http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2005/07/050731232901.htm Acupuncture is best way to treat back pain, study finds The ancient Chinese practice of acupuncture works better than anything modern medicine has devised for the treatment of back pain, scientists have concluded. In trials among 1,100 patients with chronic lower back pain which had lasted for an average of eight years, almost half (47 per cent) of those who received acupuncture showed significant improvement – compared with barely a quarter (27 per cent) of those given conventional treatment. The effects lasted for at least six months, long after the treatment was completed. The study was conducted by researchers from the University of Regensberg, in the spa town of Bad Abbach in Germany, who randomly allocated patients to receive ten 30-minute sessions of sham acupuncture, real acupuncture or conventional treatment. Sham acupuncture involved sticking needles in randomly over the lower back, avoiding the meridians and points that dictate where the needles are placed in traditional acupuncture.The results showed that 44 per cent of volunteers suffering from back pain showed a significant improvement with sham acupuncture. Michael Haake, who led the study, published in Archives of Internal Medicine, said: "The superiority of both forms of acupuncture suggests a common underlying mechanism that may act on pain generation or transmission of pain signals ... and is stronger than the action mechanism of conventional therapy. "The findings add to evidence accumulated over the past 10 years suggesting that the 4,000-year-old practice of acupuncture is an effective treatment for back pain, which affects up to 70-85 per cent of the population at some point. It will be seen as a victory for exponents of alternative medicine in their battle with orthodox medicine, although many physiotherapists trained in conventional techniques now also practise acupuncture. http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/acupuncture-is-best-way-to-treat-back-pain-study-finds-403407.htm l Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine vs Western Medicine for Infertility Treatments                         By Dr. Heidi Fu, RN, LAc. DAOM Abstract: Objective: Discuss the differences between treatments of infertility using Western Medicine vs Traditional Chinese Medicine. Find out if Eastern Medicine treatment is more effective than Western Medicine, or if Western Medicine plus Acupuncture and TCM is best. Methods: This paper will consist of a survey of Western Medicine treatments for infertility, acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) treatments, and combined treatments. This paper will discuss the advantages and effect of TCM theory and therapies by analysis of TCM treatments versus Western treatments including safety of TCM versus Western. Results: Research demonstrates the effectiveness and safety of Eastern medicine. Acupuncture and TCM is a safe, painless, healthy alternative for treating gynecological problems like infertility and PMS. Millions of people have found Eastern Medicine, Acupuncture and TCM to be a better solution than Western drugs and surgery. Conclusion: Acupuncture and TCM and Western Medicine each have unique features to offer in the treatment of infertility and can complement each other. They have already demonstrated they can work well together in China. The two traditions should try to work together in the United State of America and worldwide in order to benefit people desiring to be parents and suffering from infertility. Key words: Acupuncture, TCM, Eastern Medicine, Western Medicine, Woman and Men Infertility, Herbs, Diagnoses, Causes, Tests, Treatments. http://www.fivebranches.edu/doctorate-daom/1048#p12 Acupuncture and Reproductive Health Current statistics state that one in five couples over the age of 30 have difficulty conceiving after one year of trying. Many of these couples are turning to acupuncture and Oriental medicine for a safe, effective and natural solution to have a healthy baby. Oriental medicine has a long history when it comes to enhancing fertility for both men and women. In fact, evidence that acupuncture and herbal medicine have been used to aid fertility can be found in early medical literature dating back to 3AD. Fertility treatments were first recorded by Zhang Zhong Jing, a famous physician from the Han Dynasty, in his discussion of diseases in women in the Jin Gui Yao Lue or Essentials of the Golden Cabinet. How Acupuncture Can Enhance Fertility According to the principles of Oriental medicine, a person's health is determined by the quality of Qi, the vital life energy, and blood circulating through the body. When Qi and blood are circulating properly, the body is properly nourished and functioning optimally which, in turn, enhances fertility. Researchers have confirmed its benefit in the following areas: 1. Regulate menstrual cycle. 2. Improve sperm count and motility. 3. Reduce stress and anxiety associated with infertility. 4. Normalize hormone and endocrine systems. 5. Improve blood flow in the uterus. 6. Decrease chance of miscarriage. 7. Increase the chance of pregnancy for women undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF). Fertility treatments vary from person to person, but are usually scheduled for at least three consecutive cycles (twelve weeks). Treatments can include acupuncture, customized herbal therapy, stress reduction and dietary counseling. Treatments work alone but are an excellent addition to any Western intervention. Please call for more information of to schedule a consultation. Acupuncture Increases IVF Success by 65% Women undergoing IVF were 65 percent more likely to become pregnant when they combined the procedure with acupuncture, a recent study has shown. The remarkable success rate occurred across seven acupuncture trials involving 1,366 women in a systematic review and meta-analysis published in a February, 2008 issue of the British Medical Journal. Acupuncture was delivered either just before or just after embryo transfer – a step in the process of in vitro fertilization (IVF) whereby one or several embryos are placed into the uterus. The research was carried out by scientists from the University of Maryland in the United States and the VU University of Amsterdam in Holland. It is thought that acupuncture stimulates the neurotransmitters that trigger the production of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone, which controls the menstrual cycle and a woman's ovulation. Acupuncture is also thought to stimulate blood flow to the uterus and boost the production of endogenous opioids, inducing the body to relax. Source: British Medical Journal, February 2008 Acupuncture Improves Sperm Quality A study published in the July 2005 issue of the journal Fertility and Sterility found that acupuncture helped infertile men by apparently helping improve sperm quality in their semen. In the research project, 28 men received acupuncture in addition to traditional infertility treatments, while another 12 men received only the traditional treatments. All of the men were diagnosed with infertility of unknown origin. Acupuncture was associated with fewer structural defects in the sperm of men who received it, although it had no effect on other abnormalities, such as sperm immaturity or premature death. Previous studies have shown a link between acupuncture and improved sperm production and motility. Source: Fertility and Sterility, July 2005 Foods for Fertility "Your body is like a garden... As in all gardens, the seed we hope to plant in our bodies grows best when we cultivate the ground and plant and nurture the seed in harmony with the laws of nature. You wouldn't put a tender plant in clay soil without first tilling and amending the earth - at least not if you wanted to give that plant its best start. You wouldn't plant in the dead of winter, or in the dry season without water, or in a sunless place. Likewise, if we tend our bodies, minds, and spirits with an awareness of the laws of nature, we improve our chances of welcoming the gifts of Quan Yin, the fertility goddess." Angela Wu, L.Ac., author of Fertility Wisdom. Black Beans According to Oriental medicine, the energy of the Kidney system is important for reproduction and fertility enhancement often starts with the Kidneys. A good example of a food that nourishes the Kidneys and promotes fertility is black beans. Health Benefits of Black Beans From an Eastern perspective, black beans are warming in nature. They are thought to tonify the Kidney Qi and nourish Yin and Blood. From a Western perspective, black beans are an excellent source of protein, folate, iron and fiber and are rich in antioxidants. Loaded with Antioxidants Research published in the Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry indicates that black beans are as rich in antioxidant compounds called anthocyanins as grapes and cranberries, fruits long considered antioxidant superstars. When researchers analyzed different types of beans, they found that, the darker the bean's seed coat, the higher its level of antioxidant activity. Gram for gram, black beans were found to have the most antioxidant activity, followed in descending order by red, brown, yellow, and white beans. Overall, the level of antioxidants found in black beans in this study is approximately 10 times that found in an equivalent amount of oranges, and comparable to that found in an equivalent amount of grapes or cranberries. Source: Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry, November