
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2012 05:50:25 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Set-Cookie: BOLISMOBILEBROWSER=false;domain=stmarys;expires=Sat, 12-Apr-2042 05:50:25 GMT;path=/
Set-Cookie: STRMOBILETYPE=unknown;domain=stmarys;expires=Sat, 12-Apr-2042 05:50:25 GMT;path=/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Pneumonia Evansville, Indiana (IN) - St. Mary's Health System Patients Physicians Employees Businesses Visitors Ask-the-Doctor Checklist Find a Doctor Guide to St. Mary's Physicians St. Mary's Physician Practices Our Featured Doctors St. Mary's Employee Benefits Current Employee Job Search Find A Job Frequently Asked Questions St. Mary's is a Magnet Designated Facility Licensure Update Mission Statement Nursing Excellence Makes a Great Hospital Planetree Spirituality in the Workplace St. Mary's Medical Center - Evansville Campus Breast Center Center for Advanced Medicine Center for Children Convenient Care Centers Diabetes - Joslin Diabetes Center Diabetic Foot Clinic Healthy Lives Fitness Center Hospital for Women and Children Laboratory Locations Medical Equipment Occupational Medicine Radiology/Imaging Locations Rehabilitation Services Senior Connection St. Mary's for Women St. Mary's Warrick Hospital - Boonville Campus Surgicare - Outpatient Surgery Weight Management Center Women's Wellness Center Find A Class or Event ATLS Courses Pneumonia Quality and Core Measurements Heart Attack Heart Failure Pneumonia Surgical Care Adult Patient Safety Pediatric Patient Safety HealthGrades Leapfrog Group Breast Center Cancer Care Services Children's Health Care Services and Programs Community Outreach Services Convenient Care Centers Diabetic Foot Clinic Diabetes Services Emergency Services Department Endoscopy Suite Foundation Heart Services Home Health Services Hospitalists Imaging/Radiology Infusion Center Laboratory Services LifeFlight Medical Equipment Mental Health Services Neurosciences & Stroke Care Occupational Medicine Services Orthopedic Healthcare Palliative Care Pastoral Care Planetree at St. Mary's Quality and Patient Safety Rehabilitation Services Respiratory Care Senior Services Sleep Disorders Center St. Mary's Warrick Hospital Surgical Services Trauma Services Volunteers & Auxiliary Weight Management Center Women's Services and Programs Women's Wellness Center Contact Us Make A Donation My St. Mary's Experience Online Nursery Pay Your St. Mary's Bill Online Pre-Register for St. Mary's Services Request Medical Records Request a Prayer Send an eCard Shop St. Mary's Gift Shop Watch Our Videos Home Online Donation Anesthesia Imaging St. Mary's Outpatient Rehab Locations Meet Our Current Postdoctoral Fellow Pneumonia Pneumonia The graphs below display how well St. Mary's performs in key quality measures when compared against all other hospitals in the United States in caring for patients who arrive with a diagnosis of pneumonia. Pneumonia Vaccination Blood Cultures Before Antibiotics Smoking Cessation Advice Antibiotics within 6 hours Proper Antibiotic Selection Flu Vaccination What is the pneumococcal vaccine and why is that important? There is a vaccine developed to prevent a specific type of pneumonia that is caused by bacteria called pneumococcus. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) both recommend pneumococcal vaccination for persons in high risk groups for developing pneumonia. This quality measure is the percentage of pneumonia patients age 65 or older who were screened for the pneumoccal vaccine status and given the vaccine during their hospital stay if indicated. - Back to top What are blood cultures and why is the timing of when they are collected important in caring for patients with pneumonia? A blood culture is a blood test to determine what specific type of bacteria may be causing the pneumonia.  For this test to be as accurate as possible, the blood sample should be collected from the patient before any antibiotics are given. - Source: The Joint Commission This quality measure is the percentage of pneumonia patients whose initial emergency room blood culture specimen was collected before the first dose of antibiotics was given. - Back to top Why should pneumonia patients receive smoking cessation advice or conseling? Smoking has been identified as the strongest risk factor for the develoment of pneumoccal pneumonia in healthy, non-elderly adults according to The New England Journal of Medicine. Hospitalization is an ideal time to convince a patient to stop smoking. - Back to top Why is it important to give antibiotics to pneumonia patients quickly? There have been multiple studies which show improved survival in persons with pneumonia who receive antibiotics in a timely manner. Antibiotics should be administered as soon as possible after a diagnosis of pneumonia is considered. - Source: The Joint Commission This quality measure is the percentage of pneumonia patients who received their first dose of antibiotics within 6 hours after hospital arrival. - Back to top Why is giving the appropriate antibiotic important for treatment of pneumonia? Through evidence-based practice, a list of preferred antibiotics have been developed which provide the most effective treatment for pneumonia. - Source: The Joint Commission - Back to top Why is the flu vaccine important for pneumonia patients? The flu vaccine is highly effective in preventing influenza-related pneumonia . - Source: The Joint Commission This quality measure is the percentage of pneumonia patients, age 50 or older, who were screened for the influenza vaccine status, and were vaccinated prior to discharge if indicated. Note:  This measure only applies to pneumonia patients hospitalized during the months of October through March. - Back to top Home | About St. Mary's | Site Map | The Joint Commission | Notice of Privacy Practices | Patient Rights | Contact Us © 2012 St. Mary's Health System   |  3700 Washingto