Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 12:29:04 GMT
X-Varnish: 2821390759
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Male Circumcision and HIV: The End of the Epidemic, Spray-on Prophylactic, Herpes and HIV, and The Future of MC & HIV Male Circumcision and HIV Front Page The Intactivists The AAP/CDC Project FAQ ARCLaw Intact America Donate! « Aidsmap: Single virus often responsible for HIV infection, suggesting high barrier to infection | Main | Notebook: NYC Pride Edition » Monday, June 23, 2008 The End of the Epidemic, Spray-on Prophylactic, Herpes and HIV, and The Future of MC & HIV The End of the Epidemic? The Independent reported this month that the World Health Organization believes the world-wide threat of a generalized epidemic has in fact passed. The story is rather long, but the message in a few words is that the disease outside of Africa remains and looks to remain localized and concentrated in sub-populations that engage in behaviors necessary for its spread, namely among marginalized people who inject illegal drugs, among sex workers, and in gay men whose sexual networks coincidentally mirror those of sub-Saharan Africa, i.e. multiple concurrent partnerships. (It bears noting that this last category is not all inclusive. Those most at risk are the gay men who maintain such networks, which isn't to say that this makes up a majority of gay men.) This is a courageous statement. It goes against the two decade juggernaut that would rather use fear and hype to maintain attention on the problem than the humanitarian aspects of infection to keep the money flowing. To be fair, I'm not sure that this approach wasn't necessary given the world's antipathy towards the most affected groups. But it has had its counterproductive fall-out. Again, contrary to Halperin and Bailey and Gray and their acolytes, a concentrated, targeted response is still the best approach all things considered. Spray-on Prophylactic? Aidsmap has a more considered discussion on the recently reported research that spraying Estrogen on the penis could produce a barrier of keratin that may reduce the risk of HIV infection. Aidsmap interprets the study as a possible way for intact men to gain the benefits of circumcision without being circumcised. But as usual, the tone of the article belies the assumption that circumcision is the gold standard and spraying hormones is the next best thing. Again, the romance of circumcision continues to weave its way into the discourse. Nevertheless, at least Aidsmap gives the reader a more nuanced view behind the idea. Treating Herpes Still Not Predictive of HIV Infection In a final report on research started some time ago to assess whether treating herpes with suppressive drug therapy would reduce rates of HIV infection, researchers have concluded that the approach has no apparent effect in reducing HIV in women and gay men. This is contrary to the by-now common belief viz circumcision where the mechanism of reduction in transmission has been pinned on the reduction of ulcerative diseases in circumcised men. Of course, numerous studies have failed to demonstrate this. In fact, the literature is replete with contradictory studies viz the reduction of STDs in circumcised men. Demographic studies have also shown circumcision provides no predictive value of relative rates of HIV. (It of course bears noting here that other research has concluded that the groups studied, women and gay men, receive no protective benefit from circumcision.) An objective view would seem to support that STDs are simply not a risk factor for contracting HIV although they remain a predictor of risky behavior conducive to HIV transmission. The Future of MC & HIV June has been a lean month for the blog. It's not that there hasn't been news to report and comment on. In fact, this has been a busy month over all for that. However, the present model is less effective in keeping this website current and timely. I'm working on coming up with a sustainable solution. In the mean time, I would point you towards this article on the "anti-preneurs." Is this method of economic support a possible avenue for influencing the public debate? Note the no-commercial radio station. I hope you will leave comments to this post on what you want to see here and how you would support it. Thanks for reading. Posted by David Wilton at 08:22 AM in Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis , HIV Prevention , MSM, Same Sex Issues , Research & Politics | Permalink | Digg This | | TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451c18169e200e55369fd1b8833 Listed below are links to weblogs that reference The End of the Epidemic, Spray-on Prophylactic, Herpes and HIV, and The Future of MC & HIV : Comments The End of the Epidemic, Spray-on Prophylactic, Herpes and HIV, and The Future of MC & HIV The End of the Epidemic? The Independent reported this month that the World Health Organization believes the world-wide threat of a generalized epidemic has in fact passed. The story is rather long, but the message in a few words is that the disease outside of Africa remains and looks to remain localized and concentrated in sub-populations that engage in behaviors necessary for its spread, namely among marginalized people who inject illegal drugs, among sex workers, and in gay men whose sexual networks coincidentally mirror those of sub-Saharan Africa, i.e. multiple concurrent partnerships. (It bears noting that this last category is not all inclusive. Those most at risk are the gay men who maintain such networks, which isn't to say that this makes up a majority of gay men.) This is a courageous statement. It goes against the two decade juggernaut that would rather use fear and hype to maintain attention on the problem than the humanitarian aspects of infection to keep the money flowing. To be fair, I'm not sure that this approach wasn't necessary given the world's antipathy towards the most affected groups. But it has had its counterproductive fall-out. Again, contrary to Halperin and Bailey and Gray and their acolytes, a concentrated, targeted response is still the best approach all things considered. Spray-on Prophylactic? Aidsmap has a more considered discussion on the recently reported research that spraying Estrogen on the penis could produce a barrier of keratin that may reduce the risk of HIV infection. Aidsmap interprets the study as a possible way for intact men to gain the benefits of circumcision without being circumcised. But as usual, the tone of the article belies the assumption that circumcision is the gold standard and spraying hormones is the next best thing. Again, the romance of circumcision continues to weave its way into the discourse. Nevertheless, at least Aidsmap gives the reader a more nuanced view behind the idea. Treating Herpes Still Not Predictive of HIV Infection In a final report on research started some time ago to assess whether treating herpes with suppressive drug therapy would reduce rates of HIV infection, researchers have concluded that the approach has no apparent effect in reducing HIV in women and gay men. This is contrary to the by-now common belief viz circumcision where the mechanism of reduction in transmission has been pinned on the reduction of ulcerative diseases in circumcised men. Of course, numerous studies have failed to demonstrate this. In fact, the literature is replete with contradictory studies viz the reduction of STDs in circumcised men. Demographic studies have also shown circumcision provides no predictive value of relative rates of HIV. (It of course bears noting here that other research has concluded that the groups studied, women and gay men, receive no protective benefit from circumcision.) An objective view would seem to support that STDs are simply not a risk factor for contracting HIV although they remain a predictor of risky behavior conducive to HIV transmission. The Future of MC & HIV June has been a lean month for the blog. It's not that there hasn't been news to report and comment on. In fact, this has been a busy month over all for that. However, the present model is less effective in keeping this website current and timely. I'm working on coming up with a sustainable solution. In the mean time, I would point you towards this article on the "anti-preneurs." Is this method of economic support a possible avenue for influencing the public debate? Note the no-commercial radio station. I hope you will leave comments to this post on what you want to see here and how you would support it. Thanks for reading. View the entire comment thread. Subscribe and receive a numbered copy of The Intactivists: San Francisco Pride 2009-2010 as our thank you! Or buy the book online to support us! Here's why . { IAS 2011 - Rome } Did you know that our twitter feed includes many news items you won't find in the blog? Click on MC_HIV to view and follow our full twitter feed. Twitter Feed follow MC_HIV on Twitter Subscribe to this blog's feed Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Search About Male Circumcision and HIV provides a place for a public health policy debate on the linking of male circumcision and HIV/AIDS. It seeks to address questions of cost versus benefit, the effectiveness of circumcision in the fight against HIV/AIDS in real world settings, and the differing points of view of researchers, the media, and all contributors to the policy discussion. Contributors David Wilton David Wilton is a lawyer by training. He has a long-standing interest in issues of body integrity and HIV/AIDS. He maintains this site and blogs from San Francisco, California. His primary interests outside of nurturing a debate on the controversial measure of removing sexual tissue to reduce the spread of HIV are in the areas of international relations, languages, and journalism. Interviews Circumcision and HIV: A Conversation with David Wilton CUT, The PODCAST: In this episode, Eli Ungar-Sargon sits down with David Wilton of Male Circumcision and HIV to discuss the issue of circumcision and HIV-AIDS. Below, San Francisco attorney David Wilton discusses male circumcision, HIV, and human rights. Read a transcription of this interview here . San Francisco attorney David Wilton interviewed on Outlook Video viz human rights and male circumcision Contact Circumcisionandhiv.com PO Box 40312 San Francisco, CA 94140 [Please put CIRCUMCISIONANDHIV in the subject line.] San Francisco Pride Outreach 2011 2010 2009 Bonobo3D - Documenting Intactivism Intactivist Blogs infocirc End Routine Infant Circumcision IntactNews Barefoot Intactivist peaceful parenting Men Do Complain | Mythbusting Circumcision Choose Intact IntactByDefault no circumcision Beyond the Bris Jewish Intactivist Organizations קה"ל - קהילת הורים לילדים שלמים ברית מילה - חדשות מהארץ והעולם Beyond the Bris Jewish Circumcision Resource Center Jews Against Circumcision ברית מילה Gonnen.org Intactivist Organizations The WHOLE Network: Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information - The WHOLE Network - Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information Circumcision Information Resource Center of Colorado Doctors Opposing Circumcision NORM - The National Organization of Restoring Men MGMbill.org International Coalition for Genital Integrity - Intactivist Group Bay Area Intactivists | Promoting Genital Integrity For All Intaction.org to End Infant Circumcision Now ARC - Attorneys for the Rights of the Child National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers  Intactivists Intactivist Allies ~ Peaceful Parenting ~ Woman, Uncensored TLC Tugger The Teapot Atheist The Lifelube Blog - gay . sexy . healthy The Kvetcher · David Kelsey The Guggie Daily Tantalus Prime Stop Circumcision RollingDoughnut.com NOHARMM Home Page mothering magazine - inspiring natural families since 1976 ManHood: The foreskin substitute for men who are circumcised, foreskin restoration, or intact with penile discomfort Intactivism Pages - HIV page History of Circumcision Growing with my Girls Gloria Lemay Global Health Council Gene Expression DailyKos: Diarist RealityBias Cut: The Film Circumcision information for Australians | Circinfo.org Circumcision Information and Resource Pages Blog powered by TypePad Amazon.com Widgets Categories 15th CROI (2008) AAP 2010 AAP NCE 2009 Affliction Fiction AIDS 2008 - Mexico City AIDS 2012 ASHM 2008 Circumcision Journalism Crazy Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) Genital Integrity Genital Integrity 2008 Genital Integrity 2010 Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis Health Care Policy HIV Prevention IAS 2007 - Sydney IAS 2009 - Cape Town IAS 2010 - Vienna IAS 2011 - Rome Informed Consent Intactivism Law MSM, Same Sex Issues NHPC 2009 Notebook Off Topic pdf files Prevalence Pro-Circumcision Lobby Public Policy Activism Q & A Religion Research & Politics Science SFMGMBill.org Trends Vaccines Web/Tech Weblogs Around the Web Circumcision and AIDS at MGMbill.org A decidedly anti-circumcision site with a calm approach to addressing the human rights issues likely to become problematic in the rush to roll out circumcision as an HIV prophylactic. Circumcision and HIV at circumstitions.com One of the most thorough reviews anywhere of circumcision and the history behind the HIV prevention community's study of it. The science behind this prophylactic tool is much more equivocal than the most recent researchers would have you believe. New Zealand based. Circumcision and HIV: Harm Outweighs Benefits from circumcision.org From the Circumcision Resource Center, Boston, Massachusetts. This human rights organization has published such books as Questioning Circumcision: A Jewish Perspective and Circumcision: The Hidden Trauma . Sitting on its board are a number of individuals affiliated with Harvard and other Ivy League institutions. Circumcision and HIV infection from CIRP.org From the Circumcision Information Resource Pages. An excellent primer on the issue. Doctors Opposing Circumcision statement on HIV Doctor's Opposing Circumcision is a Seattle based physicians group that provides education, information and advice on medical circumcision and its effects. Statement on AIDS and Circumcision from the International Coalition for Genital Integrity Another thorough treatment of male circumcision's likely impact on the spread of HIV from an "alliance of organizations dedicated to protecting the normal anatomy of males, females and the intersexed ... [that] was formed to coalesce the many activist organizations, each with a specific focus, into one, common voice." Does circumcision prevent HIV infection? - NORM-UK John Dalton puts together a critique of the African studies and their weaknesses. He examines the evidence, appropriateness, and possible outcomes from promoting circumcision and calling it a "prevention." Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 Jul