
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 06:01:46 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.humanhealthspecialists.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Acupuncture 2 About Us Team FAQ Products Services Testing Treatments Nutrition Exercise Conditions Clients Resources Patient Forms Newsletter Testimonials Blog Client Testimonial Simply the BEST in healthcare! Jude LaCava / Fox 10 Phoenix Sports Anchor Follow Jude View more testimonials You are here: Home » Services » Treatments » Acupuncture 2 Find Lasting Relief with Acupuncture in Arizona At Human Health Specialists, we find that we’re often the last place people turn to when they are looking for relief from their pain. We work hard to make sure you are feeling the best you can. We don’t treat symptoms, we find and treat the causes. Regardless of the health “issue” you are facing, we can fix your problem… or at least, make it better… in most cases, a whole lot better. Acupuncture has been used for over 2,000 years to promote wellness, and relieve pain or illness. As one of the oldest, if not the oldest, methods for wellness and pain relief, acupuncture is just starting to gain traction in the United States. It CAN work for you if you give it a chance. What Can Acupuncture in Arizona Do For You? Help you feel like yourself again Relieve your pain Give you more mobility Help you sleep better and through the night The length of treatment depends on the severity of your condition; however, many people feel a difference from just the first treatment. Start feeling like yourself again: schedule your appointment online or call (480) 883-7240. What Can Acupuncture Treat? Acupuncture can treat a variety of conditions, including: Arthritis Pain – acute or chronic Back pain and sciatica Migraines and headaches Anxiety Depression Allergies Cold/Flu Insomnia Anxiety Muscle tightness or spasm Fibromyalgia Menstrual problems Infertility Gastrointestinal distress such as constipation or diarrhea Nausea and vomiting (especially with chemotherapy) But Isn’t Acupuncture Painful? Many people think acupuncture must be painful because you’re being stuck with needles. However, the acupuncture needles are so thin (like a piece of hair), that you actually can’t feel them being inserted. Acupuncture is actually very relaxing… many of our patients who receive acupuncture in Arizona say they reach a state of nirvana during their treatment and leave feeling very relaxed. Relieve your pain and feel like you again! Call (480) 883-7240 or book online now . What are the benefits of receiving acupuncture in Arizona? There are many benefits to acupuncture, but the biggest ones are: It is a non-invasive alternative therapy It can quickly restore function and balance in the body It often provides an increase in overall health What Would Happen During My Acupuncture in Arizona Session? You’ll be taken into a comfortable, private treatment room for every acupuncture session in our Scottsdale, Arizona office. Unlike many places, we do not offer community acupuncture or have rooms closed off with curtains. Prior to your first acupuncture session, a very detailed health history questionnaire will be sent to you assess your current condition and learn what your immediate concerns are. Your acupuncturist will review this and ask you follow-up questions during the first part of your appointment. This can last 15-30 minutes, however, depending on your history and the questions your acupuncturist has for you it may last longer. During this time, we may find other problems that can be treated in the same session. After your history, the lights will be dimmed and you’ll be asked to lie down on the treatment table. Your pulse and pulse dilation will be taken regularly through your treatment. The acupuncture needles will be placed according to what you and your acupuncturist decide to treat, and you’ll have 30-45 minutes to lie there and relax. After your treatment, you’ll be asked how you feel and the acupuncturist may recommend some additional things you can do to help your condition. This can be from some stretches you to do daily, different foods to try, diet suggestions, or daily supplements. At the beginning of every follow up appointment, your acupuncturist will complete a mini-history, including how you’re feeling and if you felt any improvement after your last session. Schedule your first acupuncture session at Human Health Specialists and start feeling like yourself again. Book online or call (480) 883-7240. Why Should I Choose Human Health Specialists? We have been helping people, in Arizona and all over the world, improve their energy, fight disease, and optimize their health for over 22 years. We work hard to make sure you are feeling the best you can. We don’t treat symptoms, we treat causes. We consistently provide results, even after other professionals can’t or when they say there is no hope. If we don’t know the answer, we’ll find a respected professional who does. At Human Health Specialists, we understand that every person is unique and different – what works for one person may not work for the next. We don’t use cookie-cutter programs or a one-size fits all approach, every solution we provide is tailored specifically for you. And, we understand that often when you visit a healthcare “specialist” you are limited to that person’s knowledge. If they are not aware that a certain form of specialized treatment for your condition exists, they won’t be able to provide you with that option. Our solution to this problem is putting in place technological that include our computer research database that houses the most up-to-date research available and our affiliate programs with the finest doctors in the world. With these, we are able to input your unique health condition and obtain research files from patients all over the world you have been helped or cured of the same health problem you suffer with. And, once we have that information, your healing process can begin. In addition, we use a variety of treatments, and are consistently adding new treatments to make sure we’re on the cutting-edge of healthcare. Our treatments include: Alopathic/Western medicine treatments like therapeutic ultrasound and occasionally prescription drugs Complementary and alternative medicine treatments like acupuncture, customized dietary supplement strategies, and customized diets Naturopathic treatments like prolotherapy and platelet rich plasma therapy Homeopathic preparations Start feeling like yourself again and find your pain relief solution: schedule your appointment online or call (480) 883-7240. Want More Information on Acupuncture? Below are some links for more information on Acupuncture and Alternative Medicine. What is Acupuncture Free Your Qi Acupuncture for Pain Relief Alternative Medicine: More than just fun with needles Search Get our E-book Sign up below to get our free e-book, “A Patient’s Guide to Acupuncture,” with everything you need to know if you’re considering Acupuncture. First Name * Last Name * Email * Ready to make an appointment? Please call us if you would like to make an appointment for today at (480) 883-7240. Or Have a Question? Click here to submit your question or comments. Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Like Us On Facebook Follow Us On Twitter HHS Services Body Fat Testing Lab Testing Nutrition Exercise Treatments Quick Links Affiliates The HHS Team Testimonials Healthy Living Newsletter Health & Fitness Blog Customer Service Contact Us About HHS Frequently Asked Questions Patient Forms Privacy Policy Human Health Specialists 8131 East Indian Bend Road Scotts