
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 12:33:50 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8m DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.16
Cache-Control: private
Pragma: private
Set-Cookie: bb_lastvisit=1336140350; expires=Mon, 06-May-2013 12:33:50 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: bb_lastactivity=0; expires=Mon, 06-May-2013 12:33:50 GMT; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Alternative Cancer Treatments [Archive]  - Gold is Money -  The Premier Gold and Silver Forum -- Goldismoney Gold is Money -  The Premier Gold and Silver Forum -- Goldismoney > Main Category > Real Life & Coffee Shack > Alt Medicine/Coll Silver >  Alternative Cancer Treatments PDA View Full Version : Alternative Cancer Treatments gnome 04-10-2010, 11:43 PM Back under new name, but not so incognito.  :cool2:  :wavey: Thought I'd start a new thread to follow up on fromserpo's excellent cancer thread on GIM1. I'm starting with this website, which I just discovered and has some of the most well organized and detailed info on alternative cancer treatments I have seen to date: http://cancertutor.com/index.html (http://cancertutor.com/index.html) http://cancertutor.com/index.html The purpose of this website is to do three things: 1) Teach people about their many alternative cancer treatment options, 2) Be a practical guide on how to maximize the chances of survival of advanced cancer patients, 3) Teach people the many tactical issues which can affect the survival of a cancer patient, which means teach people about many potentially dangerous issues they likely don't fully understand. The articles on this website deal with everything from: which alternative cancer treatments are free or at least very inexpensive, to: which treatments are the most potent for a given type of cancer. There are also many discussions which apply to every type of cancer and every situation (e.g. the importance of the "cancer diet"). Alternative cancer treatments include four main categories of natural products. First, treatments which use natural foods (e.g. carrot juice and Aloe Arborescens), supplements which contain many natural substances (e.g. Cellect and LifeOne), treatments which use natural molecules (e.g. cesium chloride and calcium) and electromedicine treatments (e.g. the Rife Machine and Bob Beck Protocol). There are, in fact, hundreds of alternative cancer treatments. These treatments usually can be combined with each other to increase their effectiveness. There is also the "cancer diet," meaning the things a cancer patient should and should not eat. Some "cancer diets" are so potent they are highly effective cancer treatments by themselves. Every cancer patient needs to be aware that many foods feed cancer cells and other foods virtually destroy the energy of almost all cells. Because most people know far more about orthodox cancer treatments than they know about alternative cancer treatments, and based on numerous conversations I have had with many people regarding cancer, it is obvious to me that almost every person on Earth believes that pharmaceutical drugs are the only effective cancer treatments and that God has not put any cures for cancer in Mother Nature. Excuse me for stating the obvious, but this is akin to believing that medicinal chemists know more about cancer than God knows about cancer or that God does not care about His own children!! Because people know virtually nothing truthful about alternative cancer treatments; more than 99% of all cancer patients begin their cancer treatment with chemotherapy, radiation, surgery and other man-made cancer treatments. What this means is that almost all cancer patients who want to learn about alternative cancer treatments have already had extensive orthodox cancer treatments. The number I always hear from people who deal with cancer patients is that about 95% of all cancer patients who seek out alternative cancer treatments have already had extensive orthodox cancer treatments. This is not only a very, very sad statistic but more importantly it is an indication that these patients need massive amounts of good information quickly. That is precisely what this website is all about - information. Let us look at one issue which cancer patients need to know about, but which most cancer patients have probably not thought about. In its most simplistic sense; cancer is caused by an imbalance between the strength of the immune system and the number of cancer cells in a person's body. In other words, every person on earth gets new cancer cells all the time. But for most people, this is not an issue because their immune system easily and safely kills these new cancer cells. Mother Nature has designed our bodies to continually and safely kill newly forming cancer cells. However, when the immune system becomes weak, or when the number of cancer cells grows out of control, the person is eventually diagnosed with cancer. The treatments of orthodox medicine kill fast-growing cells. The problem is that the immune system has many fast-growing cells. The stomach lining also has some fast-growing cells and the colon has some fast-growing cells. All three of these systems are necessary to fight cancer. But these systems are severely damaged by most orthodox cancer treatments. The approach of orthodox medicine is to use treatments which kill some cancer cells and may or may not shrink tumors, but they always damage the ability of the person to digest foods and safely kill cancer cells. Orthodox cancer treatments cannot be a "cure" for cancer because the balance between the immune system and the number of cancer cells has not been restored. In fact, the balance has gotten far worse!!! This is why people who are lucky enough to survive their cancer are generally on chemotherapy for life. The chemotherapy takes the place of the immune system. This is about as logical as replacing a person's heart with a sump pump. On the other hand, alternative medicine seeks to safely kill cancer cells (without damaging the immune system, the stomach lining or the colon lining) and seeks to build or rebuild the immune system. So let us take a hypothetical cancer case to analyze. Suppose a cancer patient has had a large number of chemotherapy sessions, several radiation sessions and has had extensive surgery. Suppose this person is sent home to die by orthodox medicine and a relative of his talks the person into looking at alternative cancer treatments. Suppose this person goes to a German cancer clinic and has virtually all of their cancer cells safely killed within a few weeks. Here is the question: Has this person been "cured" of cancer? Think about the answer to this question before reading on. To answer this question we have to ask another question: Has this person's balance between the immune system and the number of cancer cells been restored? In a sense the answer is "yes" and in a sense the answer is "no." Yes, the balance has been restored in the sense that there are no cancer cells. But this balance is because the person has no cancer cells and no immune system. That's not a very good balance!! It is impossible to restore a very damaged immune system (I include the lining of the stomach and the lining of the colon as part of the immune system because they are what extract nutrients from foods) within a few weeks or even a few months and in many cases the immune system cannot be restored within 2 or 3 years!! In other words, the balance has been temporarily restored, but when this person gets new cancer cells, as all people do, there will be no immune system to safely kill the newly forming cancer cells. If nothing else is done, the cancer will return. Thus, while the clinic treatment has provided a superb start to a treatment; it should only be considered the beginning of the treatment because the immune system balance with new cancer cells has not been restored in the long run. To achieve a true cure for cancer the immune system must be very strong and that cannot happen in three weeks. This does not mean a person needs to live in Germany for several years, it only means that when they get back from their clinic the work is far from over, but there has been a good start. The point is that curing cancer must get started very quickly (because time is critical) and it also must be a long term process for those who have had a lot of orthodox cancer treatments. And this discussion has only been the tip of the iceberg (e.g. I haven't even talked about lactic acid, cell membranes or many other topics). Hopefully it is clear that alternative medicine has an entirely different approach to treating a cancer patient than does orthodox medicine. God has put hundreds of natural cancer treatments on this earth which are far, far more effective than any orthodox cancer treatment. Are you surprised that God has enough intelligence, integrity, and a love of humanity, to put hundreds of cures for cancer on this earth? In fact, your body has mechanisms in it to kill newly forming cancer cells. Yet the medical establishment claims that God's cures for cancer are quackery!! There are three main reasons alternative cancer treatments are far more effective than orthodox treatments. First, natural cancer treatments are not toxic, thus they can be given in much higher doses than orthodox cancer treatments. While a person may think that chemotherapy is given in high doses, actually it is given in very low doses. Second, alternative cancer treatments do no harm to the patient, thus the patient has a much longer time for the treatment to work. Patients would live far longer if they did absolutely nothing about their cancer (as opposed to using orthodox treatments); but alternative cancer treatments can extend life to the point that in many cases the patient is cured. Third, alternative cancer treatments can be combined with each other in most cases. This ability allows the cancer patient to treat several different aspects of their cancer at the same time (such as getting supplements past the lactic acid blockade, building their immune system and getting rid of the cancer cells). As a result of these advantages, and many more, newly diagnosed cancer patients (who start their cancer treatment with alternative cancer treatments), and who have at least 3 months to live, can achieve a cure rate of 93% or higher if they work with experts in combining multiple alternative cancer treatments or they do a lot of homework. But many newly diagnosed cancer patients cure their cancer by just drinking a lot of carrot juice and avoiding the foods that feed their cancer and interfere with their immune system (eating the right foods is called the "cancer diet"). By comparison, orthodox cancer treatments (using a comparable definition of "cure rate"), have less than a 3% cure rate. How many people do you personally know who were diagnosed with cancer more than 7 years ago who are still alive? The answer is probably none. So if alternative cancer treatments can obtain a 93% cure rate on the same newly diagnosed cancer patients that orthodox cancer treatments obtain a 3% cure rate on, why would anyone start their cancer treatment with orthodox cancer treatments? The answer, of course, is that people have been taught that orthodox cancer treatments are far superior to alternative cancer treatments. In fact, the pharmaceutical industry and its strongest allies (the media, the Food and Drug Administration, the medical establishment, Congress, the American Cancer Society, etc.) all claim that God has not put any cures for cancer on this earth. This article will not get into the politics of cancer, but there are two free eBooks on this website which do get into the politics of cancer in great detail. It is also critical for people to understand that when a cancer patient starts their treatment with orthodox medicine, by the time they start using alternative cancer treatments they have lost a great deal of time needed for treatment plus their body has been severely damaged by orthodox cancer treatments and their body has been damaged by their cancer. The longer a cancer patient is on orthodox cancer treatments, plus the longer it takes them to find superb alternative cancer treatments; before they switch to alternative cancer treatments; the lower their chance of survival. While there are hundreds of alternative cancer treatments, it takes an expert, and the right alternative cancer treatments, to give an advanced cancer patient real hope for survival. The cure rate on these types of patients is about 50% and only the best experts (such as those in clinics) can achieve that kind of cure rate. Curing these kinds of patients is literally a race against time. It is necessary to "get it right" the first time and then go on a long term treatment to restore the immune system, repair the damage to the colon and stomach and safely kill newly forming cancer cells. All of these things, and many more, are discussed in detail on this website. But a person should not use any single source for information when putting together a cancer program. Each cancer expert has a different perspective and it is important to hear opinions from several different experts. Some of the best books are listed on the "Cancer and Health Bookstore" on the left sidebar of most web pages. Some of the other top alternative cancer treatment websites are linked to below. But do not underestimate the information on this website. This website is the result of contributions by many experts in alternative medicine. For now, it is important to understand that very few of the hundreds of alternative cancer treatments can achieve a 50% cure rate on very advanced cancer patients. And these treatments must be used under the guidance of an expert (e.g. via a clinic, telephone support, etc.). One other very important subject must be discussed. Just because someone says they know how to cure cancer does not mean they have a clue what they are doing. Some people know what they are doing, other people are good people who mean well but don't know what they are doing and other people are just seeking high profits. Thus, a cancer patient not only has to overcome the massively huge hurdle of the false claims of orthodox medicine, they also must wind their way through the false claims of many people in alterative medicine. That is why this website doesn't sell any health products or any health treatments. Nickelless 04-11-2010, 04:39 AM Is anyone else familiar with Cantron/Cancell? http://www.google.com/search?q=cantron gnome 04-11-2010, 03:02 PM http://news.yahoo.com/s/hsn/20090901/hl_hsn/prostatecanceroverdiagnosedstudy Prostate Cancer Over-Diagnosed: Study HealthDay Reporter by Ed Edelson MONDAY, Aug. 31 (HealthDay News) -- Mass screening for prostate cancer with a test for prostate-specific antigen (PSA) has led to mass over-diagnosis and over-treatment, a new study contends. Since the PSA screening test came into use in 1986, federal government data show that the number of prostate cancer cases in the United States has risen substantially, said the report in the Aug. 31 online issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute. Treatments for prostate cancer include surgery and radiation therapy, and possible side effects are incontinence and impotency. "The ideal screening test would have no effect on the number of cases," said study co-author Dr. H. Gilbert Welch, a professor of medicine at the Dartmouth Medical School's Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice. "It would change the time in life that the cancers were diagnosed, but not the number. Instead, there has been a sustained change in the number of cases -- 1.3 million more that would not have been diagnosed previously." The death rate from prostate cancer has fallen in the United States, but not necessarily because of mass screening, Welch contended. "There are a number of reasons why mortality might fall, but the most obvious is that we have better treatment," he said. "Even without early detection, I expect mortality would fall." Results of a European study reported earlier this year indicated that "to save the life of one man, 50 must be over-diagnosed," he said. Guidelines for screening for blood levels of PSA -- a protein produced by the prostate gland -- differ widely. The American Cancer Society says that a PSA test should be offered at age 50, accompanied by an explanation of the potential benefits and hazards. The American Urological Association recommends a first PSA test at age 40, with follow-ups depending not only on the test score but also on factors such as ethnicity. "The recommendations on this are all over the map, and that's because it's a close call," Welch said. "Different people look at the numbers and come to different conclusions. There is the potential to help some people and hurt some people." In his own medical practice, Welch said, "I try to stay away from this one. If someone asks me, I explain the risks and the benefits." Given the unknowns, it's entirely appropriate for a man to decide on having a PSA test without advice from a physician, Welch said. But Dr. Judd Moul, director of the Duke University Prostate Center, after reading the new study, said, "This is not going to change my mind on the issue of screening." Moul recommends an initial PSA test at age 40, with follow-up if necessary. "We now do have the potential for over-detection, but we still have 30,000 men a year dying from prostate cancer, and the best way to prevent deaths from prostate cancer is still screening," Moul said. Both Moul and Welch agree that the PSA test is decidedly imperfect because it can't distinguish between the majority of prostate cancers that grow so slowly that they are no danger to a man's life and the fast-growing minority that are potentially fatal and require decisive treatment. "Right now we don't have that magic biomarker," Moul said. "So I think it is more important to try to reduce the number of deaths than to worry about over-detection." "I wouldn't expect one to come soon," Welch said, referring to a specific test for virulent prostate cancer. "So we will continue to find a lot of it, and a lot of it that doesn't matter." fromserpo 04-11-2010, 05:44 PM Thanks gnome ,found those links again and here they are also......so much info on cancer its insane..... http://www.chimachine4u.com/cancer.html http://ezinearticles.com/?expert=Glenn_Reschke http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MkLjHY0_-0A&feature=related fromserpo 04-11-2010, 05:46 PM Is anyone else familiar with Cantron/Cancell? http://www.google.com/search?q=cantron No but we are now ,thanks fromserpo 04-11-2010, 05:48 PM Great find there gnome ,heaps of info and links gnome 04-12-2010, 01:19 AM Glad you like the links, fromserpo.  You are the impetus behind the thread. :bowdown: The curezone cancer hompage: http://curezone.com/diseases/cancer/ If anyone thinks this forum's interface sucks, spend a few hours on curezone.  Some great & knowledgeable posters over there, but what a nightmare to navigate.  Regardless, a good place for research on huge range of health topics.  Good place to ask questions if you got 'em. gnome 04-12-2010, 12:19 PM Some very good info here regarding alternative diagnosis and testing methods.  CAT and PET scans expose body to radiation.  It is theorized that biopsies may promote spread of cancer.  There are non-invasive methods of cancer screening... some may be able to detect cancer years in advance of the appearance of symptoms.  As well, such methods can be used to relatively inexpensively measure progress (or lack thereof) with treatment protocols. http://www.new-cancer-treatments.org/Articles/Determine.html How To Determine How Much Cancer You Have The Navarro Urine Test How To Determine How Much Cancer You Have Introduction When you are on an alternative cancer treatment how do you know whether or not it is working? Two ways are having a P.E.T. Scan or a CT Scan. However, these are very expensive and provide radiation you don't need in most cases. A P.E.T. scan is a good choice when you need to know exactly where the cancer is. But if you don't need to know exactly where the cancer is, but you do need to know whether the alternative cancer treatment you are using is effective, the Navarro Urine Test is very helpful. You use this test in the following way. When you begin an alternative cancer treatment protocol you take the Navarro Urine test. Every six weeks thereafter (or whatever interval you use) you take another Navarro Urine Test. If the Navarro score goes up (comparing a Navarro score to the next Navarro score six weeks later), then you have more cancer after the current test than you had at the time of the previous test. This likely means your alternative cancer treatment may not be working!! On the other hand, if the Navarro score goes down (especially if it goes down by one point or more in the six weeks), then your treatment is likely doing its job. A score of 50 or above, means, statistically speaking, you likely have cancer. When the score is below 50, then statistically speaking, you likely do not have cancer. Thus, for example, if your initial score is 56.2 and your score six weeks later is 54.6, then likely your cancer treatment is working. There are other factors in determining whether your alternative cancer treatment is working (such as energy level), so you may not want to rely totally on the change in the Navarro score, but it is certainly a number you should take seriously. In addition to cancer patients taking the Navarro Urine Test, even people without cancer can take the Navarro test (take note caregivers) to get an early warning that they may have cancer creeping up on them. Even cancer patients in remission should take the Navarro Urine Test every six months for 2 or 3 years after they think they are in remission. Any change in the score can help them determine if they really are in remission. Because "getting cancer" is caused by an imbalance of the immune system and the number of cancer cells, the Navarro score is very important for those in remission (note: "getting cancer" is a function of the immune system versus the number of cancer cells, but cancer itself is caused by a microbe which lives inside of cancer cells). Determining Progress The ideal is to stay on an alternative cancer treatment until your score is below 50. However, an actual example of Navarro scores provides some key information. One lady had been using superb alternative cancer treatments for several months. Her Navarro score dropped to a 52. This is an excellent score and typically means the cancer patient is out of danger, but should continue their treatment. After seeing her 52, she continued to use superb alternative cancer treatment protocols for several more months. Then she took another Navarro score. It was still 52. What happened? When a person has dropped to a 52 and then continues a superb protocol for several more months, most likely they do not have a significant amount of cancer. So why might their score still be a 52? The reason is that the Navarro Urine test is a very specific type of HCG test which was designed for cancer. In other words, it is not a measure of how much cancer a patient has, it is a measure of how much HCG there is in the body. Alternative cancer treatments are not designed to lower HCG scores, they are designed to get rid of cancer cells safely. Thus, a person may have gotten rid of their cancer cells, but at the same time their level of HCG may not have been flushed out of their body in proportion to the drop in their number of cancer cells. If your Navarro score drops to a 52, then definitely continue superb treatments. But if after a few more months the score is still a 52, most like you have no cancer cells, but you still have some residual HCG in your body which has not been flushed out. It is up to the patient and their caregiver, but in this situation they likely can go on a remission protocol. If they go on a remission protocol they should obtain a Navarro score every 3 months until they are confident the cancer is gone. Then they can adjust to a Navarro score every 6 months for a couple of years. Information About the Navarro Urine Test Here is information about the test taken from two of Bill Henderson's articles. Developed in the late 1930's by the renowned oncologist, the late Dr. Manuel D. Navarro [his son, also an M.D., currently does the test], the test detects the presence of HCG in urine. It indicates the presence of cancer cells even before signs or symptoms develop. Dr. Navarro found HCG to be elevated in all types of cancers. The test is based on a theory proposed by Dr. Howard Beard and other researchers who contend that cancer is related to a misplaced trophoblast cell that becomes malignant in a manner similar to pregnancy in that they both secrete HCG. As a consequence, a measure of the amount of HCG found in the blood or urine is also a measure of the degree of malignancy. The higher the number, the greater the severity of the cancer. Urine, as opposed to blood or serum, is the preferred specimen for the test. In 1980, Papapetrou and co-authors reported the correctness of the urine specimen to be used in HCG Immunoassay. In 32 proven cancer cases, the immunoassay test gave 31 positive results using urine while only 12 positive results were reported using blood. HCG has been found to undergo glycosylation in the liver as it travels in the hepatic circulation. Thus, the HCG molecule cannot be detected. The molecule does not undergo this process in the kidney and therefore the molecule remains intact in the urine. The test detects the presence of brain cancer as early as 29 months before symptoms appear; 27 months for fibrosarcoma of the abdomen; 24 months for skin cancer; 12 months for cancer of the bones (metastasis from breast cancer extirpated 2 years earlier). Currently, many cancer patients take advantage of the diagnostic accuracy of this test as an indicator of the effectiveness of their specific mode of therapy. Patients follow a simple direction for preparing a dry extract from the urine sample. The powdery extract is mailed to the Navarro Medical Clinic where the HCG testing is performed. (details below) If you want more information about the tests, here are Bill Henderson's articles: http://www.Beating-Cancer-Gently.com/nl75.html http://www.Beating-Cancer-Gently.com/nl81.html [see also bottom section] Directions for Urine Sample Preparation (Note: "cc" and "ml" are the same measurement) (1) From an early morning urine, take 50 cc (1.7 oz.) and add 200 cc (7 oz.) of 100% acetone (can be purchased from Wal Mart, a hardware store or pharmacy, but do NOT use fingernail polish remover) and 5 cc (.2 oz) of alcohol, either rubbing [alcohol] or ethyl [alcohol]. Stir and mix well. Note that you will need the ability to meaure 5 ml, 50 ml and 200 ml, and something to accumulate the items. (2) Let it stand in the refrigerator for 2 hours until sediment is formed. Throw off about half of the urine-acetone mixture without losing any sediment. Filter the remainder through a coffee filter or laboratory filter paper. (3) When filtration is over, dry the filter with its sediment. Fold and wrap in aluminum foil. Send by Priority Mail International or a faster way if you desire (e.g. FedEx) (the address is listed below) including a Xerox copy of the money order or cashier's check (if you paid by check) with the patient's name, address, sex, age and a brief clinical history and/or diagnosis. Also, be SURE to include your e-mail address. This will speed up your receipt of the results by at least 4-6 weeks. (4) PRECAUTION: No sexual contact for 12 days for female patients before collecting the urine sample. For males, no sexual contact for 18-24 hours before collecting the urine sample. DO NOT SEND URINE IF THE PATIENT IS PREGNANT. Here is the clinic instructions for preparing the sample: Navarro Clinic Sample Preparation Paying For and Sending the Urine Test There are two ways to pay for the test, which costs $50. The first method is to use their website and pay online and the second way is to send a cashier's check to an address in the United States and then include a copy of the cashier's check with the urine sample. The website they use for payment is this: Navarro Medical Clinc Payment The optional method is to send a check for $50 to a U.S. address and then include a Xerox copy of the money order or cashier's check in the package you send to the Philippines. Here is the address: Erlinda N. Suarez 631 Peregrine Drive Palatine, IL 60067-7005 USA To send the urine sample itself, put it in a padded envelope and mark it "Dry Urine Sample." Then send it by "Priority Mail International" (or a faster method if you wish to pay for it) directly to the Philippines. It costs about $25.00 for shipment and takes about 5-6 days to get there. If you include your e-mail address with the sample, you will get the results in about 7 days. Without the email address allow 4-6 weeks for test result delivery if they have to be sent to the USA, Canada or Europe. Fed Ex costs over $47 and regular mail takes forever. Here is the addresss of the clinic (where you send the sample): Navarro Medical Clinic Dr. Efren Navarro 3553 Sining Street Morningside Terrace Santa Mesa, Manila Philippines 1016 011-(632) 714-7442 A Different HCG Test This is a second option to use for determining how much cancer you have. The score of the Navarro Urine Test and the score of this test cannot be compared!!! Dr. Emil K. Schandl in Florida has developed a panel of 7 blood tests, including the HCG test (Human Chorionic Gonadotropin), which he calls his "Cancer Profile." The panel of blood tests is said to have about a 93% accuracy in stating whether a person has cancer or not, even very early, and costs about $300 to get all 7 tests. For more information on this, go to: HCG Test For the specific product see ("CA Profile" product): CA Profile gnome 04-12-2010, 11:34 PM Also posted this in the vaccine thread.  In many cases, cancer may be viral related, lymphomas in particular linked with monkey virus and epstein-barr virus. http://www.unisci.com/stories/20021/0311023.htm Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Monkey Virus Appear Linked UT Southwestern researchers have established a link between human non-Hodgkin's's lymphomas and a monkey virus carried by some people, possibly opening new avenues for detection, prevention and treatment. In the study, published in the current issue of the British medical journal The Lancet, researchers examined nearly 400 tumors and control tissues, and found the viral footprint for simian virus 40 (SV40) in the tumors of 43 percent of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients. The virus, predominantly of the B-cell type, was present in 9 percent of Hodgkin's lymphoma cases, a significantly lower rate. The percentage of SV40-positive findings among healthy subjects and patients with other types of adult and pediatric cancers, other than bone tumors, was zero to 6 percent. Approximately 287,000 new non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cases are diagnosed worldwide every year. SV40 was first transmitted to humans between 1955 and 1963 in contaminated batches of polio vaccine. As many as 30 million people may have been vaccinated with the tainted serum. Persons born after 1963 also have been found to carry the virus, but scientists are uncertain how the virus was transmitted to them. Estimates for the number of carriers range between 2 percent and 13 percent of the population, although large population based studies need to be done. Dr. Adi Gazdar, professor in the Hamon Center for Therapeutic Oncology Research and the Department of Pathology and principal investigator on the study, said the findings fully confirm earlier research on hamsters that associated SV40 with brain and bone tumors, mesotheliomas (tumors in the lining of the lungs and other organs) and B-cell lymphomas. SV40 previously had been associated in humans with brain and bone cancer and mesothelioma, but the human lymphoma connection is new. The rates of virus detection in HIV-positive and HIV-negative subjects with lymphoma were similar, a fact that came as a surprise to the researchers. "This potentially could lead to new developments in diagnosis and treatment," Gazdar said. Dr. John Minna, director of the Hamon Center for Therapeutic Oncology Research, said researchers were looking for a viral connection with lymphoma 20 or 30 years ago, and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) sequences have been found in some lymphomas of Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's types. But it looked like a strong viral association did not exist. "This brings that back into the picture," he said. Minna said it is known that SV40 activates a protein that interacts with and deactivates the proteins that control the normal cellular life cycle, creating immortal malignant cells. "Could we block that and allow the cell to stop growing?" he said. While they hold great promise, there is some distance yet between the current findings and any clinically applicable breakthroughs. It is more likely that they will lead to screening and early detection techniques before yielding vaccines or therapies. "We have some clues, but it's not going to be fast," Gazdar said. "The first thing is for scientists around the world to duplicate our research. Fortunately, Dr. Janet Butel, a noted virologist from Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, has independently obtained almost identical data, also published in The Lancet. These two extensive and carefully done studies present a powerful one-two punch against skeptics." [Contact: Wayne Carter] 11-Mar-2002 gnome 04-13-2010, 12:43 AM Comprehensive cancer protocol... better format and plenty of more info if you follow the link: http://www.tbyil.com/anticancer.htm A Natural Anti-Cancer Protocol by Tony Isaacs author of Cancer's Natural Enemy Western medicine treats the body as a collection of parts instead of as a synergistic organism.  When it comes to treating broken bones and injured body parts, mainstream Western medicine is unequaled.  When this same approach is used to treat illness and disease - fixing or repairing the parts where the symptoms of underlying illnesses manifest themselves, modern medicine fails miserably. In the instance of cancer, instead of addressing the causes of cancer - toxins and a weakened immune system which result in a loss of proper cellular communication and oxidation and the cells mutating to cells that form a protective coating and replicate without dying -  we see instead treatments that either slash, burn or poison away the tumors and cancer cells, which further weakens an immune system cancer has already defeated and only worsens the conditions that led to cancer to begin with. As a result, the way is paved for the return of the cancer or the introduction of another cancer or serious condition.  Even worse, the road to further illness is often made easier due to the damage to the immune system and major organs caused by the treatment of the symptom. Nature, on the other hand, gives us an array of tools to beat cancer and the underlying causes that lead to cancer, including foods, vitamins, minerals, supplements and lifestyle choices.  The key is not merely addressing the tumors and cancer cells that are the symptoms of cancer, but but addressing and eliminating the root causes that led to cancer to begin with and prevent it from being eliminated. Here is a suggested protocol to eliminate cancer cells by either killing them or restoring them to normal function and to address the root causes of cancer based on what we know about cancer and what nature and lifestyle choices have to offer: CLEANSING As soon as possible, cleanse your body to get rid of built up toxins like heavy metals and pesticides, as well as the undigested food, fecal matter and gallstones that build up in the body by cleansing your colon and liver and by chelation to rid the body of heavy metals.  Such contaminations are breeding grounds for, and causes of, disease and illness.  A toxic and unclean body weakens the body's immune system that should be your first line of defense.  Plus, once cleansed, the body is much more receptive to the good measures you take to rebuild your immune system and fight disease. It cannot be stressed enough how vitally important it is to cleanse, restore and protect the liver before, during and after your anti-cancer and disease battle.  As the great cancer pioneer Max Gerson observed, cancer cannot develop unless the liver is impaired to begin with.  An effective cancer fighting regimen can severely tax an already weakened liver because it will result in the release of a cascade of toxins that are released when cancer cells die.  Such a release can overwhelm an already impaired liver and can even be fatal if measures are not taken to protect and regenerate the liver.  Following is a suggested liver cleanse and suggested further measures to take to cleanse, detox, protect and help regenerate the vital liver: Five day liver cleanse. It is best to have day 4 on a Saturday or at a time when you are staying at home. Day 1: Drink 1 liter (4 cups) of apple juice during the day. Eat as normal otherwise. Day 2: Drink another liter of apple juice. Eat normally Day 3: Drink a 3rd liter of apple juice. Eat normally Day 4: Do not take any sold food after lunch time 6pm - Take one level tablespoon of Epsom salt in a glass of water 8pm - Take another tablespoon of Epsom salt in a glass of water. You may find that you already have to take a trip to the toilet before the 8pm Epsom salt. 10pm - Mix one half glass of olive oil and three quarter glass of freshly squeezed grape fruit juice by shaking it very well in a jar with a lid so that it mixes well and immediately get into bed after drinking the mixture. You will probably make more than one trip to the toilet during the night as well as during the next day. Day 5: 6am: Take another tablespoon of Epsom salt in a glass of water 8am: Take one final tablespoon of Epsom salt in a glass of water. You will find that many gallstones from the liver will be passed and one will notice them in the toilet. They will vary in size from about pin head size to 10mm. Gallstones in the liver are a major cause of many health problems. The above liver cleanse can  be repeated every month until one finds that for two months in succession no more gallstones are passed. The liver will then be clean.  (You can read about this in much more detail in Andreas Moritz's book ' "The liver and gallbladder miracle cleanse" which you can download from his site at www.ener-chi.com) Other things to do for the liver: Coffee enemas - help open the bile ducts so bile and toxins can be released properly. Coconut oil - a wonderful item everyone should take, it helps maintain a good bile flow. Beetroot juice - is also good for the liver and bile flow. Turmeric - is a cancer fighter itself, especially for smokers, and it helps regulate bile flow. Milk thistle - is a must as it helps protect the liver and actually regenerate it Alpha lipoic acid - another liver supplement that also helps fight cancer Selenium - a third liver supplement that is good against cancer too. In the Berkson Clinical Study, three women who were facing liver transplants or chemo with interferon (a horrendous treatment with very low success rates for hepatitis and cirhossis), took milk thistle, alpha lipoic acid and selenium, modified their diets a bit and got some daily exercise and restored their liver functions to normal. Besides cleansing and detoxing your body, also cleanse your environment to the greatest extent possible of pesticides, herbicides, household cleansers, air fresheners and other manmade chemicals.  In an ideal world, you would move to the country where there was plenty of fresh air and sunshine and less stress.  In the real world you may not find that possible, so eliminate common toxins in your household, workplace and other places you spend time. ELIMINATE ROOT CAUSES OF DISEASE IN YOUR MOUTH If you have mercury amalgam fillings in your teeth, have them replaced.  In many instances, this step alone has led to elimination of cancer.  Cilantro and chlorella can help eliminate heavy metal accumulations in the body.  A specially blended and wildcrafted formula which utilizes cilantro and chlorella is Metal Magic by Jon Barron. Perhaps worse than amalgam fillings is root canals.  According to Bill Henderson, author of  "Cure Your Cancer" and "Cancer-Free", root canals is "the big elephant in the room".  Bill reports that "it has been proved by many dentists and oral surgeons I respect that virtually all degenerative disease starts in the dentist's chair and points to the book "The Roots of Disease" by Robert Kulacz, D.D.S. Bill goes on to say, "I have worked with hundreds of people who have struggled with all kinds of conventional and alternative treatment. Nothing seems to work to heal them. When these people finally wake up to the above and get their mouths cleaned up, they get well in weeks -- not months. Almost everyone (85-90% of the people I work with) has root canal-filled teeth. One lady had 13 of 'em. They are ALWAYS related to the cancer. No exceptions." Dr. Thomas Levy, one of the world's experts on dental toxicity, told me he had done a study with Dr. Hal Huggins from 1994-2000. They removed "over 5,000 root canal-filled teeth." He said they took every one of them to the lab and tested it. Every one of them had toxins coming out of it "more toxic than botulism." His exact words. You can see on a thermogram the root canal tooth with its inflammation on the exact same meridian as the cancer tumor in the breast, colon, prostate, etc., etc. There are over 40 million root canal fillings done in the U.S. alone every year. Is it any wonder we are all getting sick? Suggested reading: http://www.Beating-Cancer-Gently.com/124nl.html http://www.Beating-Cancer-Gently.com/126nl.html DIET, NUTRITION, NATURAL HYGIENE & LIFESTYLE No matter what supplements or treatments you may choose to combat cancer, you must first establish a good foundation.  While vitamins, minerals, herbs and other supplements may help you beat the symptoms of cancer and help boost your immune system, the diet and lifestyle you live will be the ultimate keys to beating cancer and keeping it at bay once and for all because in the end it is your own body which will win the war. To fail to embrace proper diet, nutrition and lifestyle and look for answers in supplements alone is akin to putting a new roof on a house that is falling apart from a broken foundation. Immediately eliminate bad habits and begin building good ones so that you will make sure that you no longer have habits that weaken your immune system and that you will be able to build your body to fight and conquer illness.   A sedentary lifestyle with a poor diet, lack of pure water, sunshine and fresh air, and constant exposure to toxins will in time lead to bad health conditions.  On the other hand, also be sure to get an abundance of sleep and physical rest to conserve energy for healing and cleansing. Remember, bad health habits are open invitations for illness and disease to enter your body. Begin and maintain a healthy immune-boosting and cancer fighting diet.  A good balanced diet, pure water, fresh air, sunshine and mild to moderate exercise are some of the essentials.  You will find that a good diet does not have to be a bad tasting diet – far from it!  However, it should be noted that the very best and most healthy diet is one that is close to the diet our ancestors evolved to utilize:  lots of fresh and uncooked vegetables, fruits, nuts, roots and tubers, and fish and free range meat not subject to factory farming or feed lot practices and uncontaminated by growth hormones, artificial fertilizers or pesticides.  Granted that is a tall order for fish and meat, but it is strongly recommended to consume ONLY such healthy non-toxic fish and meats and to limit meat consumption period when fighting cancer.  It is also best to consume little or no grain or dairy products.   It should be noted that of all the foods, essentially only raw vegetables and fruits contribute to an alkaline pH.  Juiced vegetables and fruits are an excellent form of nutrition (Note: eat much more vegetables than fruit due to the high sugar content of fruits). The Budwig Diet is an excellent and proven cancer fighting diet which is highly recommended, especially the flaxseed oil and cottage cheese portion of the diet.  NOTE: When using the Budwig Diet, avoid alpha-lipoic acid and vitamin e supplementation.  Despite what some overly zealous Budwig proponents believe, other anti-oxidants and supplements are fine with the Budwig diet. Take the time to chew each bite thoroughly - as many as 50 chews if possible - to help aid digestion and take maximum advantage of the available nutrition. Fasting So long as you are not physically wasted, fasting is an excellent way to begin virtually any disease fighting protocol.  It helps the body eliminate wastes and toxins and reset itself to optimum health levels for healing and fighting cancer and other illness.  Many people are able to beat disease and illness of all kinds, including cancer, simply by fasting. After an initial fast of a few days or longer where you provide only the water needed to satisfy thirst, continue with a one-day-a-week fast.  It will help keep your body cleansed and, if you are overweight, also help you reach and maintain your optimum weight.  Two good daily fasts in addition to water only fasts when fighting cancer would be 1) a dark grape fast where you eat all the dark grapes and seeds you want but nothing else other than water (the concord grape is probably the best choice and seeds are a must!), and 2) a juiced vegetables fast. Proper Food Combining It is important to practice proper food combining in the cause of disease as this prevents the putrefaction and fermentation of foods within the digestive system, and therefore toxicity, caused by mixing a predominantly protein food with a predominantly starchy food at the same meal.  For example a poached egg on wholewheat toast.  Fruits should not be combined with vegetables for the same reason.  Proper food combining requires far less digestive energy which is then released for other more important bodily tasks. The Importance of Sunshine From the very first days that man walked upon the earth, sunshine has been a key to health and survival.  The importance of the synergistic relationship between health and regular sunshine cannot be over-emphasized for both physical healing and mental health (which is itself a key to physical healing for cancer and any other illness).  Contrary to popular beliefs about the harmful effects of over exposure to the sun, abundant sunlight has extremely high success rates for: Safely stopping tumor growth, not destroying tumors (the only effect that conventional medicine recognizes), but stopping growth. Preventing cancer by stimulating the body's vitamin D production. Preventing influenza like the bird flu also by vitamin D production. Don't overdo the sunshine, but sunshine is essential to the production of vitamin D, and, strange as it may sound, has been found to be essential in warding off melanoma as well as other cancers.  Be sure to get full body sun exposure avoiding the heat of the day and not allowing oneself to become more than mildly "pink" or sunburned by gradually increasing exposure time from a few minutes to perhaps a full hour and more each day. Fair skin and the number of moles are the major risk factor for melanoma (skin cancer), not sunlight overexposure. In 1959. Jane C Wright, directing cancer research at Bellevue Memorial Medical Center in New York City, instructed fifteen cancer patients to stay outdoors as much as possible that summer in natural sunlight without wearing their glasses, and particularly without sunglasses. By that Autumn, the tumors in 14 of 15 had not grown, and some patients had gotten better. It was discovered that the one patient that didn’t have good results had not fully understood the instructions - while she had not worn sunglasses, she had continued to wear her prescription glasses. This blocking of UV into her eyes was enough to stop the benefits enjoyed by the other fourteen. Indirect Sunlight Into the Eyes Guidelines You really can't get enough of this type of light. Sitting in a screen enclosed porch would be the minimum exposure and would require three times the duration to get the same effect as walking in full sunlight. Walking in full sunlight might only require one hour to get full benefit. Wearing a hat with a brim in bright direct sunlight should be sufficient UV protection. The UV problem for eyes is greatly over exaggerated to sell sunglasses which, like sunscreens, should be used sparingly. Source: http://alternativecancer.us/cancer-prevention.htm#Sun Exposure to Nature and the Good Earth From the good earth did life spring and mankind lived for eons in close contact and relative harmony with the good earth. Mankind developed for eons in harmony with nature. It is beyond mere theory that regular exposure to soil organisms and and the good earth provides both physical and mental healing.  Many believe that there is an actual healing synergy from exposure to the earth itself. Today, far too many of us are shut off from nature in the artificial and closed environments of offices and closed in dwellings.  To remedy this: Take frequent walks in yards, fields and woods.  Of course, seek out areas that are likely to be as free as possible from pesticides, herbicides and other chemical contamination. As often as possible, take off your shoes, socks and sandals and go barefooted in the soil and grass. Plant vegetable and flower gardens (and use only organic products!).  If that is not possible, use pots and other containers for patio, balconies and indoors.  Working with your hands (and feet) in the soil is one of the most physically and mentally healthy things you can do. Those who have not had the pleasure will be amazed at the peace and tranquility you will experience.  Indoor plants bring the added benefit of adding extra oxygen and removing toxins from you air.  Everyone should have plenty of them! Rebuild and strengthen the body's natural immune system.  It is very likely that a weakened immune system contributed to your illness in the first place.  It is absolutely certain that a rebuilt and strengthened immune system will help you beat your illness and keep it at bay.  Again, good diet, nutrition and habits are all important – they lay the foundation for a strong and healthy immune system.  However, they are not enough by themselves.  You should build a good foundation and then make your body a healthy fortress against disease and illness.  Quite simply, disease and illness hate healthy hosts.  The stronger your immune system is, the harder it is for disease to survive and grow.   And, to be the very strongest you can be, you need extra measures in the form of supplements as well as the healthiest foods.  An oleander extract very much like you get when you make oleander soup was tested in Europe in 1986 - 87 and found to have six times the immune stimulating activity of the most powerful immune stimulators known to man. Deep Breathing and Stretching Not only is proper oxygenation a key to beating cancer, but the very foundation of health is a healthy bloodstream, the vital system that transports oxygen and nutrients to every cell in your body. If you have a healthy circulatory system, you will live a long and healthy life. The key element for that system is breathing. With each breath, you can stimulate the life processes of each and every cell in your body. Breathing not only controls the oxygenation of the cells, it also partially regulates the flow of lymph fluid, containing the white blood cells – major players in the immune system. One of the functions of the lymphatic system is to act as part of a ‘sewage system’ for the cells. Every cell in your body is surrounded by lymph. Blood is pumped from your heart through your arteries to the tiny porous vessels called capillaries. The blood carries oxygen and nutrients to the capillaries, where they are then diffused into the lymph around the cells. The cells, having intelligence for what they need, absorb the oxygen and nutrients necessary for their health and excrete toxins, some of which go back into the capillaries. Dead cells, blood proteins and other toxic material are removed by the lymph system. Deep breathing and stretching activate this lymph system. The body’s cells depend on the lymph system as the only way to drain off these large amounts of toxic materials and excess fluid, the presence of which can restrict the amount of oxygen available to the cells. The fluid passes through the lymph nodes where dead cells and all other poisons (except blood proteins) are neutralised and destroyed. Many of the ‘fight back’ cells of the immune system are stored in the lymph nodes. For more information, see:  http://www.wellness-recovery.com/breathing.htm Maintain an Alkaline pH and Get Plenty of Oxygen to the Cellular Level Once cancer has gained a foothold, it does not survive well in the presence of an alkaline cellular pH level, nor in the presence of highly oxygenated cells.   As Nobel Laureate Otto Warburg discovered, low cellular oxygen is a primary causal factor for cancer.  His protege, Dr. Johanna Budwig of Germany, continued his work and found that in order for proper cellular utilization of oxygen to take place, our diets must contain adequate amounts of unsaturated fatty acids. Although many people use food grade hydrogen peroxide to obtain extra oxygen, perhaps a better option without the concerns some have with hydrogen peroxide is the product OxyGen.  Each capsule contains oxygen and the equivalent of 12 drops of 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide derived from a combination of magnesium peroxide and pure anaerocidal oxygen. Be Sure to Take These Cancer Fighting Minerals Make sure you have plenty of iodine, selenium, magnesium, potassium, zinc, vitamin C, calcium and Vitamin D.  All have been proven to be essential in beating and avoiding cancer.  As mentioned above, cancer cells have lost the ability to be shut off by the body in what is called cellular apoptosis. These cancerous cells simply become abnormal and outlive the other cells in their normal cell life/replacement cycle and end up crowding out a territory over time. Iodine goes in and both does away with the surrounding cyst where cancer has set up residence and then also goes in and allows the specific shut down of the individual cells that are abnormal, diseased, or beset w/ pathogens to make room for new cells. Some notes on iodine and selenium: Many people who take iodine and selenium take far too little for maximum therapeutic benefit.  Both elemental iodine and potassium iodine should be taken and the total amount of iodine should be 100mg or more, perhaps beginning at 50mg and working up. Magnascent is a good form or elemental iodine.  Lugols is also widely used.  Since Lugols contains both elemental iodine and potassium iodine, the total amount of iodine one can take with Lugols is 300 mg. Selenium MUST be taken with iodine in order for iodine to be effective. The best form of supplemental selenium for fighting cancer appears to be methylselenocysteine. The most common form of supplemental selenium is selenomethionine whose general proteins have no anticancer activity. Another form, sodium selenite is more frequently metabolized to the toxic metabolite hydrogen selenide (H2Se), which does have anticancer effects but is more toxic than selenomethionine. Its primary mode of killing cancer cells (and at high levels, normal cells) is through the process of cell necrosis. Cell necrosis provokes inflammation and may kill healthy cells along with cancer cells. The recommended form of selenium, methyselenocysteine is found naturally in some vegetables including garlic, brassicas, leeks, and onions, especially when these are grown in high selenium soil. Methylselenocysteine is easily converted to methylselenol which has been demonstrated to be an effective anticancer form of selenium. Rather than killing cancer cells by necrosis, methylselenol kills cancer cells through apoptosis. Apoptosis is an orderly process of cellular self-destruction that does not provoke inflammatory responses. Methylselenol is also known to inhibit angiogenesis in beginning cancer tumors. Angiogenesis, the creation of new blood vessels, is necessary for cancer cells to grow into a tumor.  For cancer prevention, doses of 200 to 400 mcg of methylselenocysteine are generally considered safe without medical supervision. Nutritionally-oriented physicians may use as much as 900 to 2,000 mcg selenium from methylselenocysteine daily as part of a comprehensive cancer treatment protocol. Drink Lots of Healthy Clean Water Water is essential for all healthy life; however, regular tap water contains trace amounts of hundreds to thousands of pesticides, carcinogens and other industrial pollutants.  For that reason, the author recommends only the purest drinking water, such as reverse osmosis filtered water. Exercise in Moderation Regular exercise does not have to be grueling, but it is essential. Exercise stimulates the immune system, stimulates the production of natural human growth hormone, stimulates the production of hormones and pheromones that make us happier and healthier, and simply leads to a longer and happier life period.  Innumerable studies have demonstrated the overall health benefits of exercise and the negative effects of a sedentary lifestyle lacking in exercise.  It is not a coincidence that studies have shown up that those who exercise only a few hours each week have up to 50% less chance of developing many different kinds of cancer. Do Not Neglect the Vital Trace Minerals Trace minerals are essential in beating cancer and are in fact essential to virtually all of the body's important processes when it comes to utilizing vitamins, minerals and enzymes for good health.  Two hundred years ago, the top layer of our soil contained up to 80 or more different minerals.  Today, over-farming and the chemical destruction of soil micro-organisms has stripped soils the world over of all but a handful of bio-available minerals, and even those remaining minerals are at levels that are only fractions of what were in the soil 100 years ago and continuing to decline. Man's body is designed to utilize at least 60 or more trace minerals on a daily basis, and did so for thousands of years by eating the plants that processed such minerals (and the animals that ate the plants with processed minerals.  Quite simply, without minerals nothing else works as designed, and every mineral deficiency, whether major or trace minerals, results in the body compensating in one or more ways which are often unhealthy. The only way to get an adequate supply now is to supplement, and the very best supplementation is from plant derived minerals, such as those that come from the famous plant prehistoric vegetable deposits in Utah and contain 75 trace minerals.  Those who take them regularly report remarkable improvements in their health (and the author himself takes them religiously each and every day). The head of the National Cancer Research Foundation, Fred Eichorn, asserts that mineral deficiencies lead to changes in instructions to the DNA to make adjustments for alternate ways to produce hormones and amino acids - and that these changes lead to cancer.  Eichorn believes that correcting those deficiencies leads to rebalancing that will eliminate cancer and his foundation's website has some impressive testimonials: http://www.ncrf.org Get Plenty of Healthy Omega 3's Good natural sources include extra virgin olive oil, coconut oil, avocados, and organic butter, or better yet grass-fed organic butter.  An excellent supplement is Doctor Mercola's Krill Oil, which also contains a healthy ratio of omega 6 to omega 3 fatty acids and has been shown to help ward against cachexia (the wasting of non-fat body tissue, especially skeletal muscle tissue). Things to Avoid Remember, what you avoid can be just as important as what you consume:  Avoid sugar to the greatest extent possible.  Sugar feeds cancer and other illnesses and causes a myriad of other health problems.  Refined sugar is also the number one single cause of health problems in the entire world!  Likewise avoid bread and other items containing bleached white flour, which is essentially empty and harmful calories that convert to sugar once ingested. Other items to avoid include non-fermented soy, pork, MSG, ALL charred foods and foods cooked at high temperature, aluminum and coated cookware, micro-waved food, food in plastic containers and styrofoam. GO ON THE ATTACK The next element of beating your disease and keeping it at bay is to go on the attack.  As a matter of fact, all of the elements of the this anti-cancer and disease protocol are elements of attack, because they make the body strong and inhospitable to disease.  What I am talking about here is more than just making the body inhospitable to your disease – I am talking about going on the attack and wiping it out!  In the case of cancer, there are many very potent anti-cancer supplements. such as the ones listed above and several others. One such supplement, named Sutherlandia OPC (not to be confused with the European anti-oxidant named OPC), is based on a remedy I have researched and written about, and has been used for the past five plus years in South Africa to treat HIV and cancer.  Several thousand HIV patients have taken Sutherlandia OPC now and all are reported to be still alive and well with their symptoms either reversed or stabilized.  Of the hundreds of cancer patients over the past five plus years, only 8 have been reported to not survive (5 were in their very final days and could not hold down the supplement and another three succumbed to organ failure as a likely result of prior traditional Western treatment via chemo).  All the rest, save two who stopped taking the supplement once the tumors were gone and returned to their old lifestyles (and had the cancer return) are now alive and cancer free or else have their cancers in remission and tumors continuing to shrink.  Compare that with the results of any mainstream medicine or treatment! BREAKING NEWS: A new version of the oleander, made by the same makers of Sutherlandia OPC, has just been introduced called Rose Laurel OPC Plus, and it is available for purchase in the United States from the Utopia Silver Supplement company.  The new version contains only oleander extract powder and has 33% more oleander than the other version.  Though Sutherlandia OPC is considered the best solution for HIV/AIDS, and is still a wonderful solution for cancer and other immune disorders, cancer is very much dose dependent on the amount of oleander and this new formulation should be the product of choice for cancer, especially more advanced, more aggressive and/or more difficult cancers. Readers of this website can use the discount code of LR001 to get 15% off the price and for each $100 spent, Utopia Silver gives away a free bottle of their Advanced Colloidal Silver. In addition, shipping time within the U.S. is reduced from the normal 10-12 days from South Africa to only 3-4 days via inexpensive first class postage. Dosage: The Sutherlandia OPC supplement comes in either an extract or capsule version and instructions normally call for five to 25 ml of extract three times daily or 1 to 5 capsules twice daily depending on the stage and aggressiveness of one's cancer.  The suggested dosage for the Rose Laurel OPC plus is the same.  Begin with small amounts and work up gradually to allow the body time to adjust. Note: One can also make their own oleander extract at home by carefully following the instructions in these two articles: The Recipe for Oleander Soup Part 1 The Recipe for Oleander Soup Part 2 - Tips and Advice The suggested dosage for the home remedy version is 1 tablespoon 3 times daily. Another source of oleander is the patented medicine version available from the Salud Integral Clinic in Honduras: http://www.saludintegral.hn NOTE: N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC) is considered an essential complimentary supplement to use with oleander. NAC may help protect against Cachexia and it is a powerful antioxidant amino acid and a precursor to the critical antioxidant glutathione. Iodine (see above) is an absolute must for anyone fighting cancer, especially breast cancer.  Many people have beaten cancer with iodine supplementation alone and it is a supremely powerful item to include in any cancer-fighting protocol. A supreme cancer tumor destroyer and cancer fighter for many forms of cancer is Inositol/IP6, such as is found in the product Cell Forte Max3.  According to several users interviewed by the author, it often seems to just melt away tumors in a very short time period, and works well to normalize the PSA readings in prostate cancer sufferers. One caution - Inositol/IP6 may deplete minerals and/or interfere with mineral absorption, especially calcium and magnesium.  Be sure to get plenty of Calcium and Magnesium (a good thing to do anyway) and take a good mineral supplement, preferably plant derived minerals (a second good thing to do in any event).   Intensive cancer fighting dosage calls for 8 to 16 capsules per day.  Note: intensive use of Inositol/IP6 is not recommended for more than a few months at a time, with lesser maintenance doses of one to two capsules the rest of the time and occasional breaks from the maintenance dose of up to one month (to guard against mineral depletion). Curcumin has many similar compounds to oleander and is a potent and highly proven cancer fighter and preventive. Curcumin has been particularly effective against cancer with smokers and helps prevent cancer in general from spreading.  Independent research studies on the anti-cancer properties of turmeric suggests that Curcumin has the potential for treatment of five top cancers in the U.S. -- colon, breast, prostate, lung and skin. An added plus is that turmeric is a wonderful anti-inflammatory, and thus would be a vital addition for those who have brain cancer, where swelling is always a concern.  To fight cancer, 2500 to 3000 mg per day is recommended, divided into two to three doses and taken either with meals or with bromelain as described below.  The best sources of curcumin may be the Life Extension Foundation and  Turmeric-Curcumin.com. Curcumin is can also be obtained by taking the common spice turmeric, though turmeric and most curcumin supplements are not very bioavailable.  Coconut oil or milk may help absorption and some studies have indicated that absorption may also be increased with 5-10 mg of bioperine (or else black pepper). A good blood tonic, such as the Blood Support one formulated by Jon Barron and made by Baseline Nutritionals, helps cleanse the blood and the liver and makes the body inhospitable to cancer cells. Cayenne Pepper tincture is a very effective cancer fighter, especially so for prostate cancers and when used in combination with the flaxseed oil and cottage cheese elements of the Budwig diet. Black cumin oil, also known as black caraway seed oil and blackseed oil, has been shown to be a potent cancer fighter and, along with oleander, it is one of the very few natural cancer fighters that have had good success against pancreatic cancer. Immune boosting and cancer fighting mushroom products, such as RM-10, a proprietary blend of 10 mushrooms by Garden of LIfe and available at the best price  iHerb - (PLUS you can get a $5 discount on your first order at iHerb when you use the referral code XOT949). This formula is so potent that the naturopath who developed it used it to save his mother from stage IV Ovarian Cancer.  For more information about cancer fighting mushrooms see: Mushrooms that Fight Disease and Boost the Immune System. Vitamin B-17, also known as laetrile, is a very potent and proven cancer fighter that is highly recommended although difficult to find (the best source is apricot pits).  Note: laetrile by itself, or even as the primary element of a cancer fighting protocol, is best used by people who have been given 12-18 months or longer survival estimates, as it normally works best when taken for a prolonged period of time. Colloidal Silver is another must in my opinion - it has been shown to be deadly to single cell organisms and pathogens, and various cancers have been shown to have  viral and/or fungal qualities, at least after they have become established.  The caution with Colloidal Silver is that it may also eliminate beneficial bacteria when taken in amounts large enough to fight cancer and so it is a good idea when taking colloidal silver to also supplement with probiotics (yet another good thing to do anyway - especially after cleanses). Many recommend that colloidal silver be taken with Colloidal Gold because gold appears to enhance the silver's actions when cancer is present.  Take one to two ounces or more daily while actively fighting cancer. Bromelain. Several studies have indicated anti-cancer and anti-tumor properties of the enzyme bromelain, which comes from the pineapple plant.  One of the primary anti-cancer properties of bromelain may be it's ability to help prevent cancer from growing and spreading. Bromelain is also a powerful binder which can greatly increase the absorption of other supplements and medications (for that reason, a qualified medical professional. preferably a naturopathic one, should be consulted before taking large amounts of  bromelain with other medications where increased absorption might be a cause for concern).  Take 500 to 750 mg capsules thirty minutes before meals or two hours after meals.  Good when combined with bromelain.  For more information on bromelain see: Bromelain - The Wonder Supplement. Besides attacking cancer, preventing it's spread and tumor growth by the process of angiogenesis is critical.  Many of the items in this protocol work against angiogenesis; however there are also two powerful angiogenesis inhibitors that should be included for maximum effect: Shark Cartilage and Bindweed.  Studies have indicated that shark cartilage is effective at preventing cancer tumors from growing and spreading and bindweed was shown to be 100 times more effective by weight than shark cartilage. Pancreatic Enzymes/Digestive Enzymes, especially those that contain chimotrypsin, have been very effective against cancer, especially pancreatic cancers.  Digestive enzymes help in getting tumor response to treatments by disintegrating fibrinoprotein covering of tumors and make easy targets for the immune system to kill cancer cells by natural autophagy means. Also there are studies to show proteolytic enzymes mitigate tumor-induced and therapy-induced side effects, as well as indications that the enzymes are anti-metastatc. Grapeseed Extract has also been a very effective cancer fighter and a supreme antioxidant with many proven health benefits. CoQ10 - CoQ10 is a powerful cancer fighter.  Researchers in Tokyo gave rats a carcinogen that promotes colon cancer. The rats were divided into three groups. One group was fed a regular diet. The second group got a low dose of CoQ10. The third got a medium dose.  Both of the groups that received CoQ10 had reductions in abnormal crypts (an early sign of colon cancer) of up to 77%. Ultimately, the results of this study suggested that CoQ10 held cancer in check even when exposed to this carcinogen.  Another study done at the University of Texas at Austin documented 10 cases of cancer patients who unexpectedly survived when treated with CoQ10.  It works by blocking the free radicals that can ultimately damage the DNA in your cells. It also helps re-energize the immune system cells that get suppressed by cancer. It restores their ability to fight back and attack the cancer cells.  Researchers in Denmark studied a group of breast cancer patients. They gave them CoQ10, plus a combination of other antioxidants and essential-fatty acids. The result was that the entire group had a partial remission of the cancer; however, two of the patients received larger doses of CoQ10 (390 mg). Their tumors disappeared. The Beck type electrical zappers are sworn to by many and appear to have a history of eliminating cancer and illness from the body. Also, a great many successes have been reported by users of genuine Rife type machines, although they are hard to find and many inferior machines parading as Rife machines are out there. There are also the Zappers of Hulda Clark, although they are not my favorite. A CureZone member known as ParaZapper has a very good machine whom many, including myself, recommend for those who decide to use such machines. STRESS REMOVAL AND A POSITIVE MENTAL ATTITUDE The final key to winning your battle is your mental attitude.  Remove as much stress from your life as you can and believe that you are going to win.  Stress and worry accomplish nothing – worse, they are actually allies of illness and disease.  You have surely heard the term "stress, the silent killer"?  It's true!  So you must do whatever it takes to remove stress from your life and make your mental attitude your ally.  Meditate, take yoga, change jobs, retire, go fishing, find a pleasant hobby – do whatever you must to remove stress and have a positive mental outlook. Equally important, if not more so, is addressing any emotional issues from the present or the past which may be contributing to stress and preventing the body from optimal healing - may even have contributed to your development of cancer in the first place.  There have been many reports of cancer going into spontaneous remission after people successfully addressed emotional issues and stress. Remember, anyone or any issue which introduces or keeps worry and stress in your life is neither a friend nor an ally during this fight.  And make no mistake, it is a fight - likely the most important one of your life.   But it is a fight you can and will win.  Think it, believe it and live it. CACHEXIA (Wasting/Rapid Weight Loss) Cachexia  is loss of weight, muscle atrophy, fatigue, weakness and significant loss of appetite in someone who is not actively trying to lose weight, and is frequently seen in cancer, especially advanced cancers, HIV/AIDS and other conditions. N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC), can help prevent cachexia and is considered an essential complimentary supplement to oleander in general.  Other items that may may help combat cachexia are coconut oil, raw organic goats milk, medical marijuana and especially Garden of Life's Primal Defense, a natural blend of 12 species of probiotics and Homeostatic Soil Organisms (HSOs).  It helps support normal gastrointestinal balance of good and potentially harmful bacteria, and maximizes the benefits of a healthy diet by supporting normal absorption and assimilation of nutrients in the gut. (Use referral code XOT949  for $5 off your first order from iHerb.). Many have also used Hydrazine Sulfate to help with cachexia, though there are some cautions that should be read first.  See:  http://www.cancertutor.com/Cancer/Hydrazine.html FINAL NOTES Some in the field of natural health will tell you that you can beat cancer through diet alone, or through diet and detoxing.  In many instances that is true, and some of the most effective and popular natural anti-cancer protocols, such as the Budwig Diet, which relies heavily on flaxseed oil and cottage cheese (or yogurt or quark) are based on such a premise - and the use of flaxseed and cottage cheese as per Budwig's instructions is very, very highly recommended. A healthy diet and lifestyle is without a doubt an essential foundation for any cancer fighting program; however, our depleted soils and the introduction of modern industrial toxins and contaminants makes it hard to build a strong enough immune system through diet alone. Our immune systems were not designed to handle the multitude of modern toxins they now face, which is why cancer is largely a modern disease. In my opinion, the more weapons you have in your natural arsenal which are compatible with one another, the greater your chances of success will be.  That is why I advocate including several of the powerful natural supplements that have been proven to beat cancer and boost the immune system, and which address what we know about cancer. See: Cancer is Getting Harder to Beat and Avoid As a final note: for those of  you who continue to believe the big lie that the harsh and ineffective options offered by mainstream medicine (and its half century record of broken promises to deliver a cure or significant breakthrough) are superior to nature, I ask:  When did God become a quack? Live long, live healthy, live happy! gnome 04-14-2010, 11:07 PM Root Canals are a major cause of cancer, heart disease and other degenerative disease.  This fellow talks about root canals & vitamin c, including a new form of vitamin c that is much more effective at delivering c into the cells. 1 of 4 vids: http://www.youtube.com/watch?gl=GB&hl=en-GB&v=Gdm7AS8Qa-s"]http://www.youtube.com/watch?gl=GB&hl=en-GB&v=Gdm7AS8Qa-s Powered by vBulletin® Version 4.1.12 Copy