
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 03:03:36 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hemorrhoid Cushion : Hemorrhoids SEARCH: Health Articles : Hemorrhoids Hemorrhoids : Hemorrhoid Cushion Bee Pollen Supplements Even though a lot of people don’t actually realize it, a lot of antioxidant foods that we consume are from vegetables.  Vegetables ..... Latest researches have estimated that more than 75 percent of people in the United States have hemorrhoids at some time during their life and more than 50 percent of people over 50 years of age require some type of hemorrhoidal therapy, including surgery. Although the basic steps of prevention and treatment for the disease is the inclusion of high fiber in the diet and increase the fluid intake it is also suggested to individuals that they should decrease the amounts of time spent sitting and to sit on a pressure-reducing cushions. These cushions help a great deal in the prevention and relief of the pain that is caused by hemorrhoids. However, it is also advised that those who are suffering from hemorrhoids should avoid log periods of standing as it can possibly reduce the chances of formation by reducing the pulling effects of the gravity on the anus. Hemorrhoids have plagued men and women of all levels of society and of all occupations through centuries. Great men including Emperor Napoleon and US President Jimmy Carter has been inflicted by the pain equally. However with the course of time things have changed a lot and new innovations for treatment and prevention from the pain has been developed. One classic example is the development of the hemorrhoid cushion in this regard. These cushions and pillows have a very unique feature that utilizes patented technology to elevate and take pressure off the peri-anal area. Some of them are specially designed with a hidden cutout and scalloped waveform that reduces pressures and increases blood flow and oxygen delivery to the buttocks and peri-anal area to help reduce swelling and pain. Extensive studies and medical researches in the causes of the hemorrhoids have revealed that one of the major causes that contributed in the occurrence of the hemorrhoids among the American to be bad postures in sitting and extensive straining during bowel movements. This is because of the external compression from poorly designed seating concentrates forces on small areas of the body that results in high localized pressure which compresses nerves, vessels, and other soft tissues, resulting in tissue-specific damage. Other than these factors sitting also can cause high localized pressure which can compress vessels and other soft tissues which may possibly give rise to the formation of a hemorrhoidal flair-up. Hemorrhoid Itching Hemorrhoid is a kind of disorder that causes abnormal swelling of the veins in the rectum and the anal region. Hemorrhoids are also known as piles. When the bulging ..... Liquid Vitamin Supplements Discount Vitamins Antioxidant Supplements The Role Of Vitamin B3 Niacin Liquid Vitamins Versus Chewable Vitamins Getting The Right Amount Of Vitamins Supplements For Building Muscle Bee Pollen Supplements Getting Energy From Vitamins Supplements And Your Health Taking Supplements Supplements For Calcium Ginger Root Heals Ailments Nutritional Supplements Copyright © 