
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 14:03:27 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.camelotcancercare.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Alternative Cancer Treatment Clinics | The Round Table Camelot - Cancer Care Inc. Home our doctors our treatment program dmso faqs our blog contact us Posts Tagged ‘alternative cancer treatment clinics’ The Importance of Immune Support in Treating Cancer Posted by Marie on September 15th, 2011 A healthy and high-functioning immune system is one of the body’s most important weapons against cancer.  While cancer is normally attributed to causes other than the immune system, research has shown that building up a strong immune response can help the body fight cancer – a point well-recognized by mainstream medicine and alternative cancer treatment clinics . The immune system helps fight cancer and heal the body in two ways. 1. An enhanced immune response helps the body recognize malignancy better .  A malignant tumor occurs when DNA damage to the cells eliminates the function of “programmed death,” causing them to grow and divide without stopping or dying the way a normal cell would.  This forms a growing tumor that will eventually spread to other parts of the body. The immune system, in addition to recognizing pathogens like viruses and bacteria, can recognize malignant cells as something that should be destroyed.  This means that a body with a stronger immune system will have an easier time destroying cancerous cells.  With assistance from immunotherapy treatments like vitamin D3, vitamin B12 or a Myers Cocktail of vitamins and electrolytes, many patients’ bodies will be even more capable of fighting cancer. 2. The immune system helps fight opportunistic infections that overtake a weakened body .  When a patient’s immune function is low and their body is stricken with cancer, they are less able to fight off infections unrelated to their disease.  Their resistance to pathogens is lowered, and opportunistic infections – infections that take over the body when immune function is low – can make sicknesses like pneumonia and influenza deadly.  This resistance is lowered even more by some traditional cancer treatments like radiation and chemotherapy. By using immunotherapy to keep the immune system in high function, doctors can help prevent opportunistic infections and also renew the body’s ability to fight malignant tumors.  As an alternative cancer treatment program , immunotherapy has a number of benefits for the patient’s health and future. Category Alternative Treatments , Immunotherapy Tags: alternative cancer treatment clinics , alternative cancer treatment program How Laetrile and Vitamin C Help Kill Cancer Posted by Marie on August 31st, 2011 Laetrile and Vitamin C are two lesser-known cancer treatments that can make a huge impact on the spread of this disease.  Used in conjunction with DMSO as an alternative cancer treatment program , these two vitamins offer an extremely effective cancer treatment with fewer side effects and far less stress to the patient. What is Laetrile? Also known as amygdalin or vitamin B17, laetrile is a substance that works to target and kill cancer cells using its own natural offenses.  A laetrile molecule consists of three substances: Glucose (a simple sugar) Hydrogen cyanide Benzaldehyde A cancer cell contains many sugar transporters which grab sugar from the bloodstream and draw it into the cell to provide energy.  As the laetrile molecule approaches, the cancer cell drags it inside and attempts to metabolize it.  However, once inside, the laetrile molecule releases toxic cyanide and benzaldehyde and kills the cell.  Due to this release of a toxic substance, there has been much controversy over the use of laetrile in the medical field, but it is now known that this metabolism pattern does not occur in normal cells and the laetrile affects only cancerous tissue. How Does Vitamin C Help Fight Cancer? Laetrile is often used in conjunction with therapeutic doses of vitamin C.  It’s widely known that a diet rich in vitamins is an excellent way to prevent cancer, but vitamin C can also help fight cancer once it has already developed. Vitamin C is an antioxidant, meaning that it scavenges damaging free radicals from the body and helps prevent cancer long-term.  These free radicals, or molecules with unpaired electrons, can cause DNA damage to cells in the body.  Since damaged DNA is what causes cells to mutate into cancer cells, vitamin C supplementation can help prevent the formation and spread of cancer.  It’s also essential for maintaining good health and a strong immune system, so supplementation during cancer treatment has additional benefits on top of killing cancer cells. An alternative cancer treatment clinics consult can help determine the best course of action for treatment.  Used in conjunction with DMSO, laetrile and vitamin C have the potential to kill cancer cells and bring patients into remission. Category Alternative Treatments , DMSO , Laetrile , Vitamin C Tags: alternative cancer treatment clinics , alternative cancer treatment program Categories Alternative Treatments Botanicals Brain cancers (glioblastoma, astrocytoma, etc) Breast cancers Caregiver Coley's toxins DMSO Immunotherapy Laetrile Lymphomas News Others Post-Treatment Reproductive Organ cancers Success Stories UVBI Vitamin C Home | About Us | Our Treatment Program | DMSO FAQs | Contact Us | Privacy Policies | Legal Notices Alternative Cancer Care | DMSO Cancer Treatment | DMSO uses | Alternative cancer treatment clinics Healthcare web development by Medical Web Experts a New Wave Enterprises company 