<
                                    0.01) with no evidence of publication bias (P = 0.74) but heterogeneity between studies (P = 0.02). Long duration of sleep
                                    was also associated with a greater risk of death (1.30; [1.22 to 1.38]; P < 0.0001) with no evidence of publication bias
                                    (P = 0.18) but significant heterogeneity between studies (P < 0.0001). CONCLUSION: Both short and
                                    long duration of sleep are significant predictors of death in prospective population studies. PMID: 20469800 Sleep Med. 2010 Jun;11(6):505-11.
                                    Epub 2010 Mar 26. Effectiveness of Valerian
                                    on insomnia: a meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials. Fernández-San-Martín MI, Masa-Font
                                    R, Palacios-Soler L, Sancho-Gómez P, Calbó-Caldentey C, Flores-Mateo G. Servicio de Atención Primaria
                                    Litoral, Institut Català de Salut, Barcelona, Spain. mifsanmartin.bcn.ics@gencat.cat Abstract BACKGROUND: Insomnia is an
                                    often seen primary health care problem. Valerian might be an alternative treatment with fewer secondary effects. The aim of
                                    this study is to evaluate its effectiveness on insomnia through a meta-analysis of published literature. METHODS: Search for randomized
                                    clinical trials (RCTs) of Valerian preparations compared with a placebo on Medline, the Cochrane Library, Embase and Biosis.
                                    Outcomes: sleep-quality improvement (SQ, yes/no), sleep-quality improvement quantified through visual analogical scales (SQS)
                                    and the latency time (LT) in minutes until getting to sleep. Three meta-analyses were carried out using inverse-variance weighted
                                    random effects models. Heterogeneity was determined with the Q-statistic and was explored through a sub-groups analysis. Publication
                                    bias was evaluated using the funnel plot. RESULTS: Eighteen RCTs were
                                    selected; eight had a score of 5 on Jadad's scale. The mean differences in LT between the Valerian and placebo treatment groups
                                    was 0.70 min (95% CI, -3.44 to 4.83); the standardized mean differences between the groups measured with SQS was -0.02 (95%
                                    CI, -0.35 to 0.31); treatment with Valerian showed a relative risk of SQ of 1.37 (95% CI, 1.05-1.78) compared with the placebo
                                    group. There was heterogeneity in the three meta-analyses, but it diminished in the sub groups analysis. No publication bias
                                    was detected. CONCLUSION: The qualitative dichotomous results suggest that valerian would be effective for a subjective improvement of insomnia,
                                    although its effectiveness has not been demonstrated with quantitative or objective measurements . We recommend future
                                    investigations oriented toward improving insomnia with other more promising treatments. PMID: 20347389 ScientificWorldJournal. 2008
                                    Apr 20;8:411-20. The homeopathic preparation
                                    Neurexan vs. valerian for the treatment of insomnia: an observational study. Waldschütz R, Klein P. Hadwigstrasse 24, D - 78224
                                    Singen, Germany. Abstract Insomnia is prevalent and
                                    complementary therapies are common, but data are lacking on the effectiveness and tolerability of preparations beyond valerian.
                                    Here we report on an open-label, prospective cohort study in 89 German centers offering both conventional and complementary
                                    therapies. Subjects received the homeopathic preparation Neurexan or valerian for 28 days. Doses were at physicians' judgments.
                                    Sleep duration and latency were evaluated based on patients' sleep diaries over 14 days; sleep quality was evaluated at 28
                                    +/- 1 days. A total of 409 subjects were enrolled. The groups were balanced at baseline for age, sex, weight, and sleep disturbances.
                                    At day 14, both groups reported improved sleep latency and duration; latency was reduced from baseline by 37.3 +/- 36.3 min
                                    with Neurexan and by 38.2 +/- 38.5 min with valerian. The duration of sleep increased by 2.2 (+/-1.6) h in the Neurexan group
                                    and by 2.0 (+/-1.5) h in the valerian group . Differences between the groups in improvement
                                    on sleep duration were significantly in favor of Neurexan therapy at days 8, 12, and 14 . At day 28, quality of sleep was
                                    improved in both groups with no significant differences between the treatments. Significantly
                                    more patients reported lack of daytime fatigue with Neurexan than with valerian therapies (49% vs. 32%; p < 0.05 for the
                                    comparison) . For patients favorable towards a CAM-based therapy, Neurexan might be an effective and well-tolerated alternative
                                    to conventional valerian-based therapies for the treatment of mild to moderate insomnia. PMID: 18454251 Neurexan 100 tabs Product Code: NEURE Manufacturer: Heel/BHI (HEE) Vendor Item Code: 1302216 Category: HOMEOPATHIC COMBINATIONS Cochrane Database Syst Rev.
                                    2007 Jul 18;(3):CD005472. Acupuncture for insomnia. Cheuk DK, Yeung WF, Chung
                                    KF, Wong V. University of Hong Kong, Department
                                    of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong, China. cheukkld@hkucc.hku.hk Abstract BACKGROUND: Although conventional
                                    non-pharmacological and pharmacological treatments for insomnia are effective in many people, alternative therapies such as
                                    acupuncture are still widely practiced. However, it remains unclear whether the existing evidence is rigorous enough to support
                                    its use. OBJECTIVES: To determine the
                                    efficacy and safety of acupuncture in people with insomnia. SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched
                                    the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Dissertation Abstracts International,
                                    CINAHL, AMED (the Allied and Complementary Medicine Database), TCMLARS (Traditional Chinese Medical Literature Analysis and
                                    Retrieval System), National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, the National Institute of Health Clinical Trials
                                    Database, the Chinese Acupuncture Trials Register, the Trials Register of the Cochrane Complementary Medicine Field, from
                                    inception to 2006, and the sleep bibliography, which is available at www.websciences.org/bibliosleep. We searched reference
                                    lists of retrieved articles, and contacted trial authors and experts in the field for information on ongoing/completed trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised
                                    controlled trials evaluating any form of acupuncture involving participants of any age with any type of insomnia were included.
                                    Included trials compared acupuncture with placebo or sham or no treatment, or acupuncture plus other treatments compared with
                                    the same other treatments. Trials that compared only acupuncture methods or compared acupuncture alone against other treatments
                                    alone were excluded, since they did not yield the net effect of acupuncture. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS:
                                    Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed quality according to a set of criteria for risk of selection
                                    bias, performance bias, attrition bias and detection bias. Relative risk (RR) and standardised mean difference (SMD) with
                                    95% confidence intervals were used for binary and continuous outcomes respectively. Data were combined in meta-analyses (on
                                    an intention-to-treat basis), where more than one trial without significant clinical heterogeneity presented the same outcome. MAIN RESULTS: Seven trials
                                    met the inclusion criteria. The studies included 590 participants with insomnia, of whom 56 dropped out. Participant age ranged
                                    from 15 to 98 years, and the duration of insomnia varied from 6 months to 19 years. Co-existing medical conditions contributing
                                    to insomnia included stroke, end-stage renal disease and pregnancy. Apart from conventional needle acupuncture, different
                                    variants of acupuncture such as acupressure, auricular magnetic and seed therapy, and transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation
                                    (TEAS) were evaluated. Meta-analysis was limited because of considerable heterogeneity between comparison groups and between
                                    outcome measures. Based on the findings from individual trials, the review suggested that acupuncture and acupressure may
                                    help to improve sleep quality scores when compared to placebo (SMD = -1.08, 95% CI = -1.86 to -0.31, p=0.006) or no treatment
                                    (SMD -0.55, 95% CI = -0.89 to -0.21, p=0.002). TEAS also resulted in better sleep quality score in one trial (SMD = -0.74,
                                    95% CI = -1.22 to -0.26, p=0.003). However, the efficacy of acupuncture or its variants was inconsistent between studies for
                                    many sleep parameters, such as sleep onset latency, total sleep duration and wake after sleep onset. The combined result from
                                    three studies reporting subjective insomnia improvement showed that acupuncture or its variants was not more significantly
                                    effective than control (RR = 1.66, 95% CI = 0.68 to -4.03) and significant statistical heterogeneity was observed. Only one
                                    study reported an adverse event, with one out of 16 patients (6.3%) withdrawing from acupuncture because of pain. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The
                                    small number of randomised controlled trials, together with the poor methodological quality and significant clinical heterogeneity,
                                    means that the current evidence is not sufficiently extensive or rigorous to support the use of any form of acupuncture for
                                    the treatment of insomnia. Larger high quality clinical trials employing appropriate randomisation concealment and blinding
                                    with longer follow-up are needed to further investigate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture for the treatment of insomnia. PMID: 17636800 Nat Prod Res. 2009;23(8):689-95. Int J Ayurveda Res. 2010 Jan;1(1):4-9. The Ayurvedic drug, Ksheerabala,
                                    ameliorates quinolinic acid-induced oxidative stress in rat brain. Swathy SS, Indira M. Department of Biochemistry,
                                    University of Kerala, Kariavattom, Thiruvananthapuram - 695 581, Kerala, India. Abstract One of the mechanisms of neurotoxicity
                                    is the induction of oxidative stress. There is hardly any cure for neurotoxicity in modern medicine, whereas many drugs in
                                    Ayurveda possess neuroprotective effects; however, there is no scientific validation for these drugs. Ksheerabala is an ayurvedic
                                    drug which is used to treat central nervous system disorders, arthritis, and insomnia. The aim of our study was to evaluate
                                    the effect of Ksheerabala on quinolinic acid-induced toxicity in rat brain. The optimal dose of Ksheerabala was found from
                                    a dose escalation study, wherein it was found that Ksheerabala showed maximum protection against quinolinic acid-induced neurotoxicity
                                    at a dose of 15 microL/100 g body weight/day, which was selected for further experiments. Four groups of female albino rats
                                    were maintained for 21 days as follows: 1. Control group, 2. Quinolinic acid (55 microg/100 g body weight), 3. Ksheerabala
                                    (15 microL/100 g body weight), 4. Ksheerabala (15 microL/100 g body weight) + Quinolinic acid (55 microg/100 g body weight).
                                    At the end of the experimental period, levels of lipid peroxidation products, protein carbonyls, and activities of scavenging
                                    enzymes were analyzed. The results revealed that quinolinic acid intake caused enhanced lipid and protein peroxidation as
                                    evidenced by increased levels of peroxidation products such as malondialdehyde, hydroperoxide, conjugated dienes, and protein
                                    carbonyls. On the other hand, the activities of scavenging enzymes such as catalase, superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione
                                    peroxidase, and glutathione reductase as well as the concentration of glutathione were reduced. On coadminstration of Ksheerabala
                                    along with quinolinic acid, the levels of all the biochemical parameters were restored to near-normal levels, indicating the
                                    protective effect of the drug. These results were reinforced by histopathological studies. PMID: 20532090 Ksheerabala: sesame oil, milk, sida rhombifolia. Anti-arthritic activity of
                                    various extracts of Sida rhombifolia aerial parts. Gupta SR, Nirmal SA, Patil
                                    RY, Asane GS. Department of Pharmacognosy,
                                    Pravara Rural College of Pharmacy, Loni, Maharashtra, India. Abstract Aerial parts of the plant
                                    Sida rhombifolia Linn. (Malvaceae) were extracted successively to produce various extracts. These extracts were screened for
                                    various parameters of anti-arthritic activity, such as adjuvant-induced arthritis, motor performance, mean distance travelled,
                                    and histopathological study. Results showed that the polar constituents (ethanol and aqueous extracts) of the plant S. rhombifolia
                                    were useful in the treatment of arthritis. PMID: 19418351 Curr Treat Options Neurol.
                                    2008 Sep;10(5):342-9. Nonpharmacologic treatment
                                    of insomnia. Means MK, Lineberger MD, Edinger
                                    JD. Melanie K. Means, PhD Psychology
                                    Service, 116B, VA Medical Center, 508 Fulton Street, Durham, NC 27705, USA. melanie.means@va.gov. Abstract Insomnia is a widespread and
                                    debilitating disorder. Regardless of the initial cause, it may assume a chronic course perpetuated by psychological and behavioral
                                    factors. Although sedative-hypnotic medications are the most common treatment for insomnia, they pose certain risks such as
                                    adverse effects and dependence. Furthermore, medications target symptoms and fail to address the underlying perpetuating mechanisms.
                                    There are many nonpharmacologic treatment options for insomnia, including cognitive/behavioral methods, relaxation strategies,
                                    and complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) approaches. Most CAM therapies lack sufficient scientific evidence to recommend
                                    their use. Over the past 30 years, cognitive-behavioral therapies have emerged as the treatment of choice for chronic insomnia.
                                    These therapies target behavioral, cognitive, and conditioning factors underlying insomnia, thereby restoring normal sleep-wake
                                    functioning. The effectiveness of these therapies is well established. They compare favorably to pharmacologic approaches,
                                    with the added benefits of few or no adverse effects and no risk of abuse or dependence. Perhaps most importantly, behavioral
                                    insomnia therapies offer a potential cure for the insomnia, instead of the symptom-focused approach provided by medications.
                                    Despite the proven success of cognitive-behavioral therapies, they are not widely available to patients with insomnia because
                                    of a paucity of behavioral sleep specialists. Efforts are now being made to disseminate these treatments to meet the demand.
                                    Emerging therapies hold promise for further refinement and development of successful treatments. PMID: 18782507 Sleep. 1999 Dec 15;22(8):1134-56. Nonpharmacologic treatment
                                    of chronic insomnia. An American Academy of Sleep Medicine review. Morin CM, Hauri PJ, Espie
                                    CA, Spielman AJ, Buysse DJ, Bootzin RR. Université Laval, Ecole de
                                    Psychologie, Ste-Foy, Quebec, Canada. Abstract This paper reviews the evidence
                                    regarding the efficacy of nonpharmacological treatments for primary chronic insomnia. It is based on a review of 48 clinical
                                    trials and two meta-analyses conducted by a task force appointed by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine to develop practice
                                    parameters on non-drug therapies for the clinical management of insomnia. The findings indicate that nonpharmacological therapies
                                    produce reliable and durable changes in several sleep parameters of chronic insomnia sufferers. The data indicate that between
                                    70% and 80% of patients treated with nonpharmacological interventions benefit from treatment. For the typical patient with
                                    persistent primary insomnia, treatment is likely to reduce the main target symptoms of sleep onset latency and/or wake time
                                    after sleep onset below or near the 30-min criterion initially used to define insomnia severity. Sleep duration is also increased
                                    by a modest 30 minutes and sleep quality and patient's satisfaction with sleep patterns are significantly enhanced. Sleep
                                    improvements achieved with these behavioral interventions are sustained for at least 6 months after treatment completion.
                                    However, there is no clear evidence that improved sleep leads to meaningful changes in daytime well-being or performance.
                                    Three treatments meet the American Psychological Association (APA) criteria for empirically-supported psychological treatments
                                    for insomnia: Stimulus control, progressive muscle relaxation, and paradoxical intention; and three additional treatments
                                    meet APA criteria for probably efficacious treatments: Sleep restriction, biofeedback, and multifaceted cognitive-behavior
                                    therapy. Additional outcome research is needed to examine the effectiveness of treatment when it is implemented in clinical
                                    settings (primary care, family practice), by non-sleep specialists, and with insomnia patients presenting medical or psychiatric
                                    comorbidity. PMID: 10617176 J Clin Pharm Ther. 2009 Oct;34(5):555-60. Drug-use pattern of Chinese
                                    herbal medicines in insomnia: a 4-year survey in Taiwan. Chen LC, Chen IC, Wang BR,
                                    Shao CH. Department of Pharmacy, Taipei
                                    City Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. A2530@tpech.gov.tw Abstract BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE:
                                    Insomnia is a common complaint in the general population. Interest in the use of alternative treatments for insomnia is increasing
                                    exponentially and is fairly common in Taiwan. We undertook a survey to define the drug utilization patterns of Chinese herbal
                                    medicines (CM) for insomnia in Taiwan. METHODS: The survey was conducted
                                    over a period of 4 years, from January 2003 to December 2006. Outpatients with primary insomnia and being treated with CM
                                    were studied. Core drug-use indicators were the number of CM items per prescription, the dosing frequency and duration of
                                    CM prescriptions, the most common prescribed CM herbs and CM formulae used. RESULTS: Six thousand eight
                                    hundred and sixty patients, using 37,046 CM herb items, were screened during the study period. The average CM items per prescription
                                    was 5.40. Most of prescriptions (95.23%) were prescribed for administration three times a day. The most often prescribed Chinese
                                    herbal products were Hong-Hwa (Carthamus tinctorius) and Jia-Wey-Shiau-Yau-San, which includes Angelica sinensis, Atractylodes
                                    macrocephala, Paeonia lactiflora, Bupleurum chinense, and Poria coco. CONCLUSION: This is the first
                                    extensive survey examining the drug utilization patterns of Chinese herbal medicines in the treatment of insomnia. Although
                                    the data were generated in Taiwan, the herbs and practices identified are likely to be widely generalizable wherever Chinese
                                    herbal remedies are used for insomnia. Multiple herbs and complex formulae were commonly used. The baseline data generated
                                    should be of use in informing subsequent studies, including those aimed at a thorough evaluation of the herbs' effectiveness. PMID: 19753680 Volume 44, Issue 1, Pages
                                    55-62 (30 January 2003) A pilot study comparing the
                                    clinical effects of Jia-Wey Shiau-Yau San, a traditional Chinese herbal prescription, and a continuous combined hormone replacement
                                    therapy in postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms Lih-Chi Chenab, Yun-Tson Tsaoc,
                                    Kun-Ying Yenb, Yu-Fang Chena, Mei-Huei Choua, Ming-Fang Lina Received 30 October 2001;
                                    received in revised form 5 September 2002; accepted 17 October 2002. Abstract Objectives: Interest in use
                                    of alternative remedies for managing menopausal symptoms is increasing exponentially during these years. Jia-Wey Shiau-Yau
                                    San (JWSYS), one of the traditional Chinese herbal prescriptions, is a famous herbal remedy used for the management of various
                                    menopausal-related symptoms. A randomized, controlled pilot study was performed to evaluate the clinical effects of JWSYS
                                    compared with those of a continuous combined hormone replacement therapy, Premelle®, on quality of life in non-hysterectomized
                                    postmenopausal women. Methods: The present trial compared the effect of a l6-week treatment with JWSYS or HRT (Premelle®)
                                    in postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms. The Greene Climacteric Scale was used to assess the clinical effects at
                                    baseline and after 16 weeks’ treatment with either JWSYS or Premelle®. The physiological parameters, such as follicle-stimulating
                                    hormone and estradiol levels, were also recorded at the same time points. Results: The results showed that JWSYS had a relatively
                                    lower discontinuation rate due to adverse effects, in particular the bleeding and breast tenderness. Both JWSYS and Premelle®
                                    effectively alleviated most of the menopausal symptoms with no significant differences between treatment groups, whereas the
                                    beneficial effects of JWSYS were not mediated by hormone replacement-like effects. Moreover, JWSYS showed a good compliance
                                    and safety without estrogenic effects and metabolic alterations. Conclusions: It was suggested that JWSYS was a safe and efficacious
                                    therapy and might be an alternative choice for relief of climacteric symptoms in postmenopausal women. However, the exact
                                    efficacy and clinical roles of JWSYS have not been convincingly demonstrated in this study because of the blinding approach
                                    and some statistical concerns, and only the possibility of its efficacy has been raised. Therefore, a blinding trial with
                                    more patient numbers to evaluate the efficacy of JWSYS deserves further study. Similar? An Shen Ding Zhi Wan 192 pills (TL100) Manufacturer: Tang Long Tea
                                    Pills Vendor Item Code: TL100 Retail Price: $6.79 An Shen Ding Zhi Wan 192 pills Calm Shen & Settle Zhi More similar: Ba Zhen Wan 192 pills (TL120) Manufacturer: Tang Long Tea
                                    Pills Vendor Item Code: TL120 Retail Price: $6.33 Ba Zhen Wan 192 pills Eight Treasures For Qi &
                                    Blood Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2009
                                    Nov;94(1):16-23. Epub 2009 Jul 12. D(1)/D(2) receptor-targeting
                                    L-stepholidine, an active ingredient of the Chinese herb Stephonia, induces non-rapid eye movement sleep in mice. Qiu MH, Qu WM, Xu XH, Yan
                                    MM, Urade Y, Huang ZL. State Key Laboratory of Medical
                                    Neurobiology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, PR China. Abstract L-stepholidine, an active
                                    ingredient of the Chinese herb Stephonia, is the first compound known to have mixed dopamine D(1) receptor agonist/D(2) antagonist
                                    properties and to be a potential treatment medication for schizophrenia. In schizophrenic patients insomnia is a common symptom
                                    and could be partly related to the presumed over-activity of the dopaminergic system. To elucidate whether stepholidine modulates
                                    sleep behaviors, we observed its effects on sleep-wake profiles in mice. The results showed that stepholidine administered
                                    i.p. at doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg/kg significantly shortened the sleep latency to non-rapid eye movement (non-REM, NREM) sleep,
                                    increased the amount of NREM sleep, and prolonged the duration of NREM sleep episodes, with a concomitant reduction in the
                                    amount of wakefulness. Stepholidine at doses of 40 and 80 mg/kg increased the number of state transitions from wakefulness
                                    to NREM sleep and subsequently from NREM sleep to wakefulness. However, stepholidine had no effect on either the amount of
                                    REM sleep or electroencephalogram power density of either NREM or REM sleep. Immunohistochemistry study showed that stepholidine
                                    dose-dependently increased c-Fos expression in neurons of the ventrolateral preoptic area, a sleep center in the anterior
                                    hypothalamus, as compared with the vehicle control. These results indicate that stepholidine initiates and maintains NREM
                                    sleep with activation of the sleep center in mice, suggesting its potential application for the treatment of insomnia. PMID: 19604496 Back to Home Page (207) 623-1681 Maloney Medical, 4 Drew St., Augusta
                                    ME 04330 docleroymaloney@hotmail.com Fax:  (630) 733-2455 "If you get hit by a bus, go see your MD.  If you just feel like you were, it's
                                    time to see me." Thanks for thinking of me!  Christopher Maloney, M