
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 15:41:18 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cigarette Side Effects A Cause For Concern? Kill The Urge With Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy ~titletag~ Articles Cigarette Side Effects A Cause For Concern? Kill The Urge With Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy by Alan B. Densky, CH How many inner conversations have you had with yourself about your smoking habit? How many times have you mentioned to family and friends that you want to end the habit but seem to go on smoking despite the risks and the expense? And how many programs have you tried that just flopped? If you are like most people struggling with smoking, you will remember such shattered hopes and may have felt nothing will really work for you. Unless you tried NLP and hypnosis to quit smoking, you may have been correct. If you sincerely want to stop smoking, hypnosis is the reasonable choice for true success. Hypnotherapy to quit smoking can address the core reasons that keep you smoking as well as equipping you with resources and guidance to be successful at last. This is not stage entertainment that is good for laughs and tricks, but a real medical therapy approved by the AMA since 1958, and one with recognized certification and a strong code of ethics. Hypnotherapy does not contradict personal morals and a reputable hypnotist will respect your privacy and rights just the same as any other medical professional. You do need a practitioner who is certified by the National Guild of Hypnotists and who adheres to their stringent ethical and professional standards. Included in their code is making the physical and mental well-being of their client their main consideration. They also protect clients from mental, physical or verbal abuse, and make outside referrals as required. A trained hypnotist has the training to address problem behavior, and hypnotherapy to stop smoking is the second most regular type they practice. Using methods that are considered state of the art which may include the precision of NLP hypnosis and the ongoing support of CD's for stop smoking hypnosis as well as any prescription modalities a physician might also suggest for a patient. Using medical hypnotherapy does not mean other measures are excluded, but they may not be at all necessary. The reason that skillfully used smoke cessation hypnotherapy is the most effective method to achieve success is that it addresses the three basic concerns in smoking. No method can truly work that does not address each issue totally and correct the problems each causes. Most people feel that the physical addiction to nicotine is the most important aspect and the most predominant problem, but this is simply not true. If the addiction to the substance called nicotine were the only reason for failure, most smokers would not fail so many times in their efforts to quit for good. Yes, nicotine is a powerfully addictive substance and for most smokers the physical dependence is very real and there are withdrawal symptoms that are also real. But did you realize these last only a very few days? In fact, every bit of nicotine is metabolized out of the system in just 72 hours or less! For many smokers, it is the fear of withdrawal symptoms and not the reality that causes the most distress and which may prevent even trying to quit at all. Yet quitting without therapy has an average five percent rate of success! Stop smoking hypnotherapy reduces fear of withdrawal distresses and mitigates the effect of any that do happen. Another component of smoking cigarettes is that it provides relaxation, just as using a pacifier calms and soothes an infant. Many people treat stress and anxiety with some form of oral activity like smoking cigarettes or eating. Hypnotic relaxation can substitute for the comfort factor derived from smoking cigarettes, which reduces the cravings and produces stop smoking benefits instead. The mind can be retrained to substitute the same perceptions from other activities that are helpful, not harmful. Neuro-linguistic programming techniques can educate the brain to remove any connection between smoking cigarettes and comfort. Lastly, part of the smoking habit is plain old Pavlovian conditioning. Smokers learn to link smoking with certain activities, from the movie cliche of the cigarette after physical relations to having a cigarette while having a beer or cocktail or watching TV or chatting on the phone. Here hypnosis to stop smoking can permanently sever the connection, and when the link is no longer there, there will be no conditioned reaction to light a cigarette when the coffee is poured or the cocktail is presented. The mind is conditioned to associate good things with the former triggers, or to recall the helpful effects of quitting or the negatives of the tobacco. A professional clinical practitioner will use both negative and positive associations to replace programmed associations with smoking, selecting those most compelling for an individual client. Quit smoking hypnosis is the only technique that can precision tune the treatment to each of the three reasons for smoking and eliminate them. Anyone knows quitting requires support, but only stop smoking hypnosis programs effectively make you your own instant and always available support system. Alan B. Densky, CH invented the use of Neuro-VISION video hypnosis to stop smoking and received a U.S. Patent for his invention. He offers a list of stop smoking hypnotherapy CDs which produce efficient help. Visit him for Free stop smoking self-hypnosis videos and downloads . Published December 6th, 2007 Filed in Motivational View All Articles © 2002 pro