Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 08 Nov 2011 15:04:17 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "362abbaf279ecc1:84e"
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 13:58:36 GMT
Connection: close

Guideline 74: The management of harmful drinking and alcohol dependence in primary care The management of harmful drinking and alcohol
    dependence in primary care Section 
    
    
  4: Detoxification 4.1 Introduction Detoxification refers to the planned withdrawal of alcohol. Alcohol withdrawal 
    carries risks and requires carefulclinical management. The choice of timing for a preplanned detoxification is important, in relation 
  to the patient’s commitment and medium term plans. Detoxification should 
  be seen as the first step towards achieving abstinence. 4.2 Primary care detoxification versus inpatient detoxification A comparison between community and inpatient detoxification of alcohol dependent
    patients found no difference in the number of patients remaining sober six
    months 
    later. 82 At least three out of four such patients can be detoxified successfully in
    the  community. 82 Evidence
    level 1++ No studies of outpatient detoxification using medication were identified
    where  fits occurred but studies had, appropriately, excluded patients with
    a history 
    of withdrawal seizures or with impending delirium. 83 Evidence
    level 1++ Home detoxification does not appear to have any clinical advantages but may
    offer cost savings. 82 , 83 , 84 , 85 There are too few reports to be able to show rare serious events and publication
    bias may contribute to the current favouring of home detoxification as the
    first 
    line. Evidence level 1++,1+,2-,3 There is evidence that many patients prefer home detoxification. 86 Evidence
    level 2+ Community detoxification is an effective and safe treatment for patients with 
    mild to moderate withdrawal symptoms. Personnel involved in detoxification may 
    include GPs, community psychiatric nurses, primary care nurses and community 
    pharmacists. There are resource implications, including the cost of a breathalyser. Where community detoxification is offered, it should be delivered using 
        protocols specifying daily monitoring of breath alcohol level and withdrawal 
        symptoms, and dosage adjustment. Every GP practice (and out-of-hours service) would benefit from access 
        to a breathalyser for use in the acute situation and for follow up. Intoxicated patients presenting in GP practices, out-of-hours services 
        and A&E, requesting detoxification should be advised to make a primary 
        care appointment and be given written information about available community 
        agencies. See Annex 6 for advice to give to patients who undergo home detoxification. 4.2.1 SITUATIONS WHERE INPATIENT DETOXIFICATION WOULD BE ADVISED The following list is based on expert opinion and comprises validated and 
    best practice contraindications to managing withdrawal at home: 35 Hospital detoxification is advised if the patient: is confused or has hallucinations has a history of previously complicated withdrawal has epilepsy or a history of fits 87 is undernourished has severe vomiting or diarrhoea is at risk of suicide has severe dependence coupled with unwillingness to be seen daily has a previously failed home-assisted withdrawal has uncontrollable withdrawal symptoms has an acute physical or psychiatric illness has multiple substance misuse has a home environment unsupportive of abstinence. Evidence
    level 4 If admission to hospital is unavailable or the patient refuses, specialist 
        opinion should be sought to aid risk assessment. 4.3 Pharmacological detoxification 4.3.1 WHEN IS MEDICATION FOR WITHDRAWAL INAPPROPRIATE? Cessation of drinking is unlikely to be complicated in milder dependence. 35 Medication may not be necessary if: the patient reports consumption is less than 15 units/day in men / 10 units/day 
    in women and reports neither recent withdrawal symptoms nor recent drinking 
    to prevent withdrawal symptoms the patient has no alcohol on breath test, and no withdrawal signs or symptoms. Evidence level 4 Among periodic drinkers, whose last bout was less than one week long, medication
    is seldom necessary unless drinking was extremely heavy (over 20 units/day). 35 Patients need to be informed of the likely symptoms if medication for withdrawal
    is not given. Annex 7 may be used to assist in deciding whether medication
    for 
    withdrawal and admission are necessary. Evidence level
    4 When medication to manage withdrawal is not needed, patients should 
        be informed that at the start of detoxification they may feel nervous or 
        anxious for several days, with difficulty in going to sleep for several 
        nights. 4.3.2 THE EFFICACY OF BENZODIAZEPINES IN DECREASING ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL SYMPTOMS A body of evidence, based on randomised controlled trials (RCTs), has shown
    that benzodiazepines are currently the best drug group for alcohol dependence
    
    detoxification. The studies are of variable quality, with some reporting on
    small numbers of patients. Although the evidence is mostly derived from inpatient
    
    studies, the conclusions are generalisable to primary care. 88 , 89 , 90 , 91 , 92 Evidence
    level 1++,1+ Benzodiazepines can cause temporary cognitive slowing and may interfere with
    learning and planning. 93 This, and the need to avoid benzodiazepine dependence, are reasons for keeping
    the length of treatment to a maximum of seven days. Evidence
    level 1++,1+ Benzodiazepines should be used in primary care to manage withdrawal 
        symptoms in alcohol detoxification, but for a maximum period of seven days. 4.3.3 LONGACTING VERSUS SHORTACTING BENZODIAZEPINES There is insufficient consistent evidence to make a recommendation about
    the  use of longacting versus shortacting benzodiazepines. 88 , 94 , 95 , 96 Evidence
    level 1+,2+,4 4.3.4 MISUSE OF BENZODIAZEPINES All benzodiazepines have a potential for misuse, but diazepam is the benzodiazepine
    most associated with misuse and alcohol related fatality. 97 , 98 If used in community detoxification, diazepam requires supervision to avoid
    misuse. 99 Chlordiazepoxide has a more gradual onset of its psychotropic effects and therefore
    may be less toxic in overdose. These factors probably contribute to chlordiazepoxide
    
    being less often misused and having less ‘street’ resale value. Evidence
    level 3,4 For patients managed in the community, chlordiazepoxide is the 
        preferred benzodiazepine. 4.3.5 THE ROLE OF CLOMETHIAZOLE IN PRIMARY CARE ALCOHOL DETOXIFICATION Although clomethiazole (former name chlormethiazole) is an effective treatment
    for alcohol withdrawal, there are well documented fatal interactions with
    alcohol 
    which render it unsafe to use without close supervision. 90 , 98 , 100 , 101 , 102 , 103 Evidence
    level 1-,3,4 Clomethiazole should not be used in alcohol detoxification in 
        primary care. 4.3.6 DO ELDERLY PEOPLE REQUIRE DIFFERENT PHARMACOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT? Physical illness sometimes increases the risk of delirium in the elderly,
    but otherwise there is no difference between alcohol withdrawal symptoms in
    
    the elderly, or the amount of benzodiazepine required for detoxification, as
    compared to younger patients. 104 , 105 Nevertheless, the risk of accumulation of a drug in the elderly patient needs
    to be considered. Evidence level 2+ Provided attention is paid to any acute or chronic physical illness, 
        elderly patients should be managed the same way as younger patients. 4.3.7 ANTIEPILEPTIC MEDICATION There is insufficient evidence to support the use of antiepileptic medication
    as the sole treatment for the management of alcohol withdrawal or in the prevention
    
    of alcohol withdrawal seizures. 106 , 107 Evidence
    level 1+ Antiepileptic medication should not be used as the sole medication 
        for alcohol detoxification in primary care. People with a history of alcohol related seizures should be referred to 
        specialist services for detoxification management. 4.3.8 ANTIPSYCHOTIC DRUGS Antipsychotic drugs have been shown to prevent delirium but increase the
    incidence  of seizures. 88 Evidence
    level 1+ Antipsychotic drugs should not be used as first line treatment 
        for alcohol detoxification. Delusions and hallucinations due to alcohol withdrawal, which would indicate 
        the need for antipsychotic drugs, should be managed by specialist services. 4.3.9 SYMPTOM-TRIGGERED DOSING Although there are studies of the efficacy of symptom-triggered dosing and/or
    loading dosing in inpatients, there is no evidence regarding the use of these
    
    methods in primary care. 92 , 108 , 109 , 110 Tapered fixed dose benzodiazepine regimen is likely to be as effective in primary
    care. Evidence level 1+,2+ Tapered fixed dose regimen of a benzodiazepine is recommended for primary 
        care alcohol detoxification, with daily monitoring whenever possible. 4.4 The role of vitamin supplements in detoxification There are very few high quality studies on which to base recommendations in 
    this area. To do such studies now would be inappropriate. 4.4.1 TREATMENT OF ACUTE WERNICKE-KORSAKOV SYNDROME Detoxification may precipitate Wernicke’s encephalopathy ( see Box
    2 ), which must be treated urgently with parenteral thiamine. 111 There is a very small risk of anaphylaxis with parenteral vitamin supplementation.
    This is less likely with the intramuscular route. There has been one case
    of 
    anaphylaxis solely attributable to intramuscular Pabrinex since 1996. 112 Evidence
    level 4 Box 2: Pointers to diagnosis 
  of Wernicke-Korsakov syndrome Signs of possible Wernicke-Korsakov syndrome in a patient undergoing 
        detoxification confusion ataxia, especially truncal ataxia ophthalmoplegia nystagmus memory disturbance hypothermia and hypotension coma One RCT has examined the role of parenteral vitamin supplements in inpatient
    alcohol detoxification using memory function as the outcome. 113 This study was done in people who did not have Wernicke-Korsakov symptoms. Evidence
    level 1+ Any patient who presents with unexplained neurological symptoms or signs 
        during detoxification should be referred for specialist assessment. Patients with any sign of Wernicke-Korsakov syndrome should receive 
        Pabrinex in a setting with adequate resuscitation facilities. The treatment 
        should be according to British National Formulary (BNF) recommendations 
        and should continue over several days, ideally in an inpatient setting. 4.4.2 TREATMENT OF THOSE AT RISK OF WERNICKE-KORSAKOV SYNDROME There is no published evidence and conflicting expert opinion on the treatment
    of malnourished patients, and the specification and treatment of “at-risk” 
    patients (those with diarrhoea, vomiting, physical illness, weight loss, poor
    diet), with the majority of experts recommending parenteral vitamin supplementation
    
    during detoxification. 111 Evidence
    level 4 For the malnourished patient in the community, intramuscular Pabrinex given 
  in the GP surgery, A&E department, outpatient clinic or day hospital is 
  indicated if facilities for treating anaphylactic reactions are available, such 
  as in any setting where routine immunisations take place. Patients detoxifying in the community should be given intramuscular Pabrinex 
        (one pair of ampoules daily for three days) if they present with features 
        which put them at risk of Wernicke-Korsakov syndrome. 4.4.3 ORAL SUPPLEMENTATION No studies were identified that have looked at oral thiamine and its benefit 
    to memory in either the recovering alcoholic or those who continue to drink 
    in general practice. Absorption is diminished when patients continue to drink 
    and should be given in divided doses to maximise absorption. The BNF recommended 
    dose for treatment of severe deficiency is 200-300 mg daily. 114 Patients who have a chronic alcohol problem and whose diet may be deficient 
        should be given oral thiamine indefinitely. 4.5 The preferred setting for treating delirium tremens Delirium tremens is defined here as withdrawal symptoms complicated by disorientation, 
    hallucinations or delusions. Autonomic overactivity is a potentially fatal aspect 
    of this condition. A Clinical Resource and Audit Group (now part of NHS Quality Improvement
    Scotland)  good practice statement on delirium tremens recognises the serious
    medical aspects 
    of this syndrome and recommends that local protocols for admitting patients
    with delirium tremens are used. 87 Evidence
    level 4 Although the proportion of such patients seen by psychiatrists varies across 
    Scotland, the majority of cases are treated by the acute medical service. This 
    is because there is often a coexisting medical condition such as pancreatitis, 
    pneumonia or other infection and there may be life threatening complications. Local protocols for admitting patients with delirium tremens should 
        be in place. Home Guidelines Consultation Events Patient Involvement Methodology Search About SIGN Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network, Elliott House, 8-10 Hillside Crescent, Edinburgh EH7 5EA Web contact duncan.service@nhs.net Last modified 16/09/11 © SIG