
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 18:22:57 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.54
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
X-Pingback: http://www.thehelpline.org/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

American Pregnancy Helpline   » UTIs: Urinary Tract Infections 1-800-672-2296 Free & Confidential UTIs: Urinary Tract Infections A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a bacterial inflammation in the              urinary tract. If left untreated, a UTI can cause permanent damage              to the bladder and kidneys. What causes urinary tract infections? A urinary tract infection may be caused by one or more of the following              conditions: A new sex partner                or multiple partners More frequent intercourse A history of diabetes, sickle-cell anemia,                stroke, kidney stones or any problem that causes the bladder not                to empty completely Pregnancy increases your risk for developing                a UTI. (See Urinary Tract Infections                During Pregnancy .) Use of products such as harsh skin cleansers Use of contraceptives such as diaphragms                and spermicides A history of UTI’s, especially if the infections                were less then six months apart Waiting too long to urinate What are the signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections? If you have a urinary tract infection, you may experience one or              more of the following symptoms: Pain or burning (discomfort) when urinating The need to urinate more often than usual A feeling of urgency when you urinate Blood or mucus in the urine Cramps or pain in the lower abdomen Pain during sexual intercourse Chills, fever, sweats, leaking of urine                (incontinence) Waking up from sleep to urinate Change in amount of urine, either more or                less Urine that looks cloudy, smells foul or                unusually strong Pain, pressure, or tenderness in the area                of the bladder When bacteria spreads to the kidneys you                may experience: back pain, chills, fever, nausea, and vomiting. How do I know if I have a urinary tract infection (UTI)? The number of bacteria and white blood cells in a urine sample is              the basis for diagnosing a UTI. Proper diagnosis is vital since these              symptoms can also be caused by other problems such as infections of              the vagina or vulva. Only your physician can make the distinction              and make a correct diagnosis. What is the treatment for urinary tract infections? Urinary tract infections are most commonly treated by antibiotics.              You may take a single dose antibiotic, or you may take an antibiotic              for 3-10 days. Take all your medications as prescribed, even after              the symptoms are gone. If you stop taking your medication before the              scheduled end of treatment, the infection may come back. Pyridium may be prescribed to relieve painful urination while the              antibiotics are treating the infection (this medication may turn your              urine a dark orange color). Symptoms usually will subside within 2-3              days, but if symptoms continue for more than 3 days you will need              to contact your health provider again. How can I prevent urinary tract infections? You may do everything right and still experience a urinary tract              infection, but you can reduce the likelihood by doing the following: Drink 6-8 glasses of water each day and                unsweetened cranberry juice regularly. Eliminate refined foods, fruit juices, caffeine,                alcohol, and sugar. Take Vitamin C (250 to 500 mg), Beta-carotene                (25,000 to 50,000 IU per day) and Zinc (30-50 mg per day) to help                fight infection. Develop a habit of urinating as soon as                the need is felt and empty your bladder completely when you urinate. Urinate before and after intercourse. Avoid intercourse while you are being treated                for a UTI. After urinating, blot dry (do not rub),                and keep your genital area clean. Make sure you wipe from the front                toward the back. Avoid using strong soaps, douches, antiseptic                creams, feminine hygiene sprays, and powders. Change underwear and pantyhose every day. Avoid wearing tight-fitting pants. Wear all cotton or cotton-crotch underwear                and pantyhose. Don’t soak in the bathtub longer than 30                minutes or more than twice a day. Last Updated: 03/2006 Compiled using information from the following sources: American Academy of Family Physicians, http://familydoctor.org Infectious Diseases of the Female Genital Tract Fourth Ed . Sweet, Richard L, et al, Ch. 15. Last updated: 12/2006 Search Our Site main topics Am I Pregnant? Unplanned Pregnancy About Pregnancy Pregnancy Health Everything Pregnancy Your Baby’s First Year Sexual Health Guy’s Corner Family & Relationships Online Pregnancy Test Links About Home Contact a Pregnancy Educator aph@thehel