Cache-Control: max-age=1209600
Expires: Tue, 28 Feb 2012 09:43:25 GMT
X-FRAME-OPTIONS: SAMEORIGIN
vary: accept-encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Tract Infection,Its Symptoms,Causes, Remedcy & Treatment Urinary Tract Infection Urinary tract infection is a serious problem. It affects millions of people each year. Detailed description of urinary tract infection (UTI), its causes, symptoms and treatment are given on this page. The Urinary Tract The urinary tract consists of the kidneys, ureters (narrow tubes), bladder and urethra. The bladder, an oval-shaped chamber, is located in the lower abdomen. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs located below the ribs in the middle. The function of the kidneys is to emove extra water and wastes from the blood and converting it to urine. The ureters carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the second most common type of infection in our body. An infection occurs when bacteria from the digestive tract go to the opening of the urethra and multiply. Generally, the lower urinary tract is affected by the infection; this infection is known as cystitis. A urinary tract infection may be in the kidneys and /or bladder. Urinary Tract Infection Symptoms Warning signs of various diseases Blood in urine Warning signs of Cancer Cancer Symptoms & causes Cancer fighting foods Warning Signs of heart attack Warning signs of stroke Warning signs of diabetes Gout symptoms Kidney stones Kidney stones home remedies Symptoms of Thyroid Problems Normal Thyroid Levels Thyroid Medication Urinary incontinence You may have urinary tract infection if you have any of the following: Frequent urination: You go to the bathroom more than 8 times in a day and more than two times at night. High temperature lasting for more than 3 days should be a trigger to get the urine culture done to ascertain whether the fever is due to UTI or not. Cloudy, bad smelling, or bloody urine Painful burning urination Pressure in the lower abdomen Women feel an uncomfortable pressure above the pubic bone and in the lower pelvis. Some men feel a fullness in the rectum. If UTI is with a fever, it means that the infection has reached to the kidneys. Pain in the back or side below the ribs, nausea, or vomiting are also the signs/symptoms of infections in kidneys in adults. Children having urinary tract infections show the sign of a change in the their urinary pattern. They become irritable, loose motions, not eating properly, and have an unexplained fever. You must visit a urologist if you have any of the above symptoms. he will test your urine for pus and bacteria. The doctor may examine you with ultrasound or by a cystoscope. A cystoscope is a fiber cable attached with lenses and a light source, which allows the doctor to see inside the bladder. Urinary Tract Infection Causes or Reasons Urinary tract infection can be caused by Generally the urinary tract may be infected by E coli ( Escherichia coli ), which normally lives in the colon. E. coli is present in utensils not properly washed or washed with scrubbers containing E.coli. It is normally found in and around kitchen sinks where utensils are washed. Many restaurant utensils have been found to be infected by E. coli. The bacteria that lives on the skin near the rectum or in the vagina can enter the urinary tract through the urethra. It may also spread from the rectum to the urethra by wiping the bottom back to front. Kidney stones can obstruct the flow of urine, increasing the risk of urinary tract infection. Sexual intercourse may transfer bacteria called Chlamydia and Mycoplasma from the partner. This infection requires treatment of both partners. An enlarged prostate (Urinary Incontinence) gland can slow down the flow of urine, increasing the risk of urinary tract infection. People with week immune system like those having diabetes have a higher risk of urinary tract infections. Children who frequently delay urination may develop UTI. Smoking is a major known cause of bladder cancer. Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedy Research by scientists at University of Stirling, Scotland found that cranberry juice may prevent urinary tract infections, particularly for those who have recurrent tract infections. This juice is believed to contain certain molecules that make it harder for bacterial such as E.coli to stick to cell surfaces, making it difficult for an infection to develop. A glass of coconut water (naariyal paani) can give you a quick relief. Urinary tract infections should be treated as soon as possible to avoid damage to kidneys. You should drink plenty of water to cleanse the urinary tract bacteria and also to avoid this infection. Cranberry juice or fruit may prevent urinary tract infections. Mushroom (Polyporus Umbellatus) is useful in urinary tract infections. You should not delay the urge to go for urination. You should go to a Urologist who will prescribe you pain-relieving medication or/and antibiotics to treat your urinary tract infection. Normally, a UTI is cured with 1 or 2 days of treatment. The content on this website is reviewed regularly and is updated when new information is made available. The information provided is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. You should always seek the advice of your Doctor. To prevent cancer one should eat lots of vegetables, fruits, lentils, legumes, and whole grains.These are loaded with dietary fibers. HEALTH & FITNESS Negative Calorie Foods Cholesterol Levels Cholesterol Low Cholesterol Foods High Blood Pressure Fast Weight Loss Metabolism Boosters Weight Gain Symptoms of Diabetes Home Remedies BEAUTY & SKIN CARE Acne Scars Remedy Skin Care Recipes Teeth Care & Tips Gum Disease & Gingivitis FOODS & NUTRITION Indian Vegetarian Recipes What Is Junk Food Food Poisoning Symptoms Anti Aging Foods High Protein Foods Calcium Rich Foods Foods High In Iron Potassium Rich Foods Foods Rich In Fiber High Antioxidant Foods Low Carb Foods High Cholesterol Diet & Foods Soluble Fiber Foods Articles on Nutrition Facts Calorie Counter Anti Aging Vitamins Healthy Diet Plan Quick Jump To Home Privacy & Disclaimer Recipes Beauty & Beauty Recipes Home Remedies Cholesterol Weight Loss Diets Warning Signs Diabetes Food Nutrition Junk Food Email This Page Bookmarks : Share Add This Page To Disclaimer & Privacy Policy © Copyright 2005 by FatFreeKitchen.com. The information & recipes given here are for personal use only. No part of this web site may be reproduced in any form by any means without prior authorization. This page has described urinar