Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Insomnia Cure Valerian Root Anxiety Cure Insomnia Cure Meditation Massage Relaxation Therapy Sleep Disorders Insomnia Cure Valerian Root Commonly Prescribed As A Calming Sleep Aid Natural Insomnia Cure Valerian Root (Valeriana Officinalis) in the wild is 
found in high pastures and dry heath land.  It flowers in late spring. The principle components used for medicinal purposes are the roots and 
rhizomes, which are typically harvested in September, and then dried to produce 
the commonly available herbal product. Valerian is also know by various folk names: All-Heal Amantilla Bloddy Buther Capon's Trailer Cat's Valerian English Valerian Fragrant Valerian Garden Heliotrope Phu Red Valerian St. George's Herb Sets Wale Set Well Vandal Root Unlike many other natural sleep aids, to gain the benefits of the effects of 
Valerian Root it is necessary to use it on a regular basis, with the full 
effects coming to fruition slowly and steadily over time. It should be used for about one month to produce results.  Regular use 
of insomnia cure Valerian Root promotes deep relaxation and sleep. Studies suggest that Valerian is by far the best natural solution for 
insomnia and general sleeplessness for most individuals. Research by P.D. Leatherwood, Ph.D., and F. Chauffard, Ph.D., at Nestle 
Research Laboratories in Switzerland, determined that a 450 mg dose of Valerian 
in an aqueous extract is the optimum dose as an insomnia treatment; a higher 
dose typically results in grogginess without increasing administering Valerian 
as a treatment for Insomnia. Furthermore, in 1982 Leatherwood and colleagues performed a double-blind 
study of 128 subjects, which found Valerian Root to not only be effective as a 
sedative for insomnia, but also effective in improving the overall quality of 
sleep in test subjects. The effects of Valerian on the body are similar to that of benzodiazepine, an 
active ingredient in Valium, but without dulling effects or next-day lethargy. It has been suggested that Valium's name was inspired by Valerian, although 
the two are completely different chemically and should not be confused as being 
the same or even related. Insomnia Cure Valerian Root is commonly prescribed as a calming sleep aid and widely recommended 
for treating anxiety-related sleep problems.  Unlike other commonly 
prescribed sleep medication, it is entirely nontoxic, does not impair the 
ability to drive or operate heavy machinery, nor does it exaggerate the effects 
of alcohol. It has been documented that Valerian can act as a delayed stimulant for some 
individuals depending on body chemistry.  In the case of certain metabolic 
conditions, the effect is one of initially calming them down only to cause a 
surge of energy several hours later, not an effect desired by those interested 
in using Valerian as a nighttime sleeping remedy. Some professional herbalists suggest taking fresh Valerian Root extract as 
opposed to extract from dried Valerian, as it is less likely to cause such a 
reaction. top of Insomnia Cure Valerian Root Other related pages at Relax and Sleep Aromatherapy : Cures For Insomnia : Insomnia Cure Bath Breathing Technique : Deep Meditation Music : Sleep Apnea How To Fall Asleep : Insomnia Solution : Power Nap Sleep Pages Home Anxiety Cures Child Relaxation Insomnia Causes Insomnia Cures Meditation Relaxation Sleep Disorders How To Fall Asleep Useful Pages Site Map Sleep Blog Sleep Artwork Contact [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Site Search Privacy Policy Affiliate Disclos