
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 22:26:15 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.brainandbodywellnesscenter.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

BBWC | Depression, ADHD, Alzheimer's Dementia| Drug Free Medically Developed Program Listen to The Modern Brain Podcast Listen to Our Complimentary Audio Book, 
7 Secrets To Keeping Your Brain Healthy Home Services Science Contact Getting Started Success Stories Order Supplements Forms Speaking and Media Health Blog Sign up for our Free Modern Health Newsletter First Name: Email: Dementia-At-A-Glance According to The National Institute of Neurological Disorders definition, dementia is: “… [A] word for a group of symptoms caused by disorders that affect the brain. It is not a specific disease”. Dementia and Alzheimer’s are both neurological brain disorders that interfere with many aspects of brain function. Dementia and Alzheimer’s share a lots of the same symptoms. There are a many forms of dementia. Alzheimer’s is the most common form of dementia. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is one of the most common types of progressive dementia. The central feature of DLB is progressive cognitive decline, combined with three additional defining features: frequent drowsiness, lethargy, lengthy periods of time spent staring into space, or disorganized speech recurrent visual hallucinations rigidity and the loss of spontaneous movement and depression. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare, degenerative, fatal brain disorder. It affects about one person in every one million people per year worldwide; in the US there are about 200 cases per year. Typically, onset of symptoms occurs about age 60, and about 90 percent of patients die within 1 year. Frontotemporal dementia (FLD) is an umbrella term for a diverse group of rare disorders that primarily affect the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain where portions of these lobes atrophy, or shrink. Those areas are generally associated with personality and behavior. It typically happen between the ages of 40 and 70 and it is often misdiagnosed as a psychiatric problem or as Alzheimer’s . Huntington’s disease (HD) results from genetically programmed degeneration of brain cells, in certain areas of the brain. This degeneration causes uncontrolled movements, loss of intellectual faculties, and emotional disturbance. It has 50-50 chance to be passed from parent to child through a mutation in the normal gene. Some early symptoms are mood swings, depression, irritability or trouble driving, learning new things, remembering a fact, or making a decision. Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a form of hydrocephalus, also known as “water on the brain,” which means there is too much fluid pressing on the brain. There is no known cause, or it may be caused by any condition that blocks the flow of cerebrospinal fluid. Symptoms can be similar to those of Alzheimer’s and/or Parkinson’s disease. But unlike Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s NPH can be reversed with appropriate program. Parkinson’s disease (PD) Is a group of conditions called motor system disorders, which are the result of the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells. Approximately 20% of people with Parkinson’s disease will develop dementia, usually after the age of 70. The primary symptoms of PD are tremor, or trembling in hands, arms, legs, jaw, and face; rigidity, or stiffness of the limbs and trunk; slowness of movement; and impaired balance and coordination. PD usually affects people over the age of 50. Vascular dementia is an umbrella term that describes impairments in cognitive function caused by problems in the blood vessels that feed the brain. In some cases, a blood vessel may be completely blocked, causing a stroke. Some strokes may result in dementia. Vascular dementia also can occur when blood vessels in the brain narrow, reducing the amount of blood flow to those sections of the brain. Vascular dementia effects 1  to 4 % of people over the age of 65. The risk increases dramatically with age. Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is a brain disorder involving loss of specific brain functions caused by a thiamine deficiency. It involves damage to multiple nerves in both the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system (entire body). The cause is generally attributed to malnutrition, especially lack of vitamin B1 (thiamin), which is common in those with alcoholism. Comments are closed. About Us Testimonials Privacy Policy Legal Info Company Policies Contact Us *The statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration. The products displayed on this website are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Copyright ® 2010 Brain and Body Wellness | Solutions for ADHD, 
Depression and Appetite | Clients World-wide | Based in Dal