
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 05:47:42 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
Cache-Control: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 05:47:42 GMT
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Diabetic Sampler Gift Basket home About us Privacy Policy Email Us Site Map View Cart 1-800-582-6164 Search Home > Baskets by Recipient > Hospital Patient > Diabetic > Diabetic Sampler Gift Basket Diabetic Sampler Gift Basket Item# GB01D203 $55.00 Decoration: Condolences Current Holiday Get Well Happy Occasion Man--Generic New Baby Woman--Generic Availability: In Stock Product Description Our Diabetic Sampler Gift & Get Well Basket contains the foods your body needs to help prevent and/or manage adult-onset diabetes.  If you have a family history of diabetes, or are otherwise at risk for developing Type 2 Diabetes, it is important to adjust your diet and to engage in regular exercise. If you already have diabetes, many foods can help your body manage this disease better. With diabetes, there is either an insufficient production of insulin or the insulin produced doesn't work efficiently.  In either situation, glucose in the bloodstream isn't able to get inside the cells of the body.  Foods rich in vitamin C, unrefined carbohydrates, vitamin E, fiber, magnesium, chromium, monounsaturated fats, and potassium can all positively impact the body's management of Type 2 diabetes as well as help prevent the onset of the disease in the first place. Love cinnamon?  Researchers are now examining its role in Type 2 diabetes treatment.  Cinnamon contains compounds that appear to help make insulin more efficient, improving its ability to bring glucose to the cells that need it.  It seems to help fat cells recognize and respond to insulin, and has also shown some promise in reducing blood sugar, cholesterol, and blood fat.  While too much cinnamon can be toxic, a mere quarter of a teaspoon per day is perfectly safe and all you need to reap the benefits mentioned above. Based on the above-mentioned current research, our Diabetes Sampler Basket contains: Organic Whole Wheat Pasta --excellent source of unrefined carbohydrates and fiber Frank's Pasta Sauce--rich in vitamin C Tea with Cinnamon--cinnamon benefits Hint Water Pistachios --vitamin E, magnesium, monounsaturated fats Cheese Crisps Tamari Almonds Recommended Food Guide for Diabetes Prevention/Management Handmade Basket Pictures are for display purposes only--actual products/decorations may vary. Remember that ANY healthy gift basket can be decorated for ANY occasion! Basket will be decorated with YOUR recipient/occasion in mind! Unforeseen high demands may occasionally necessitate an item substitution in a basket.  The substitution will always be of equal or greater value.  Please contact us if you need additional information. The information provided on the WellBaskets.com site is intended for your general knowledge only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice or treatment for specific medical conditions. You should not use this information to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease without consulting with a qualified healthcare provider. Please consult your healthcare provider with any questions or concerns you may have regarding your condition. Allergy statements (gluten free, dairy free, etc) are based on statements from individual food manufacturers. Well Baskets LLC assumes no liability for claims made by food companies.  Always read labels to check ingredients if severely allergic. All Gift Baskets Baskets by Occasion Baskets by Recipient Baskets by Holiday Baskets by Health Baskets by Diet Baskets by Theme Corporate Gift Baskets Custom Baskets CDs Food & Drink Specialty Products Wishing Well Gift Shop Fresh Fruit Health Information Informational Links FAQs Sale Items Basket Customizing Gift Boxes Flowers home | About us | Privacy Policy | Email Us | Site Map