
Low back pain - acute Skip to navigation Skip main content Contact Us Home Web Site Search Search About the College Overview Message From the Dean Our Faculty News & Announcements Publications Departments, Centers & Institutes Affiliated Hospitals Libraries History Employment Opportunities Directions Contact Us Admissions & Financial Aid Overview Financial Aid & Scholarships Life in Philadelphia Patient Care Academic Programs All Academic Programs M.D. Program Biomedical Graduate Studies Dual Degree Programs Postdoctoral Studies Professional Studies Continuing Medical Education Residencies & Fellowships Welcome Drexel/Hahnemann Programs Drexel/Saint Peter's Programs Life in Philadelphia DrexelMed Journal Other Programs Behavioral Healthcare Education Community Outreach Programs Continuing Medical Education ELAM® (Executive Leadership in Academic Medicine®) Institute for Women's Health and Leadership Internal Medicine Board Review Course Medical Humanities Mini-Medical School Drexel Medicine® Physician Refresher/Re-Entry Course Women's Health Education Program Health Encyclopedia Research Welcome Message from the Vice Dean Contact Us Drexel University College of Medicine Linking technology to a tradition of caring © Home > Health Encyclopedia > Diseases and Conditions > Low back pain - acute Diseases and Conditions Low back pain - acute Definition Alternative Names Causes, incidence, and risk factors Symptoms Signs and tests Treatment Support Groups Complications Prevention References Definition Low back pain refers to a shooting or stabbing pain felt in your lower back. You may also have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty standing straight. Acute back pain lasts from a few days to a few weeks. See also: Low back pain - chronic Sciatica Alternative Names Backache; Low back pain; Lumbar pain; Pain - back; Acute back pain; Back pain - new; Back pain - short-term Causes, incidence, and risk factors If you are like most people, you will have at least one backache in your life. While such pain or discomfort can happen anywhere in your back, the most common area affected is your low back. This is because the low back supports most of your body's weight. Low back pain is the number two reason that Americans see their doctor -- second only to colds and flus. Many back-related injuries happen at work. But you can change that. There are many things you can do to lower your chances of getting back pain. You'll usually first feel back pain just after you lift a heavy object, move suddenly, sit in one position for a long time, or have an injury or accident. But before that injury or accident, the structures in your back were losing strength or changing. Acute low back pain is most often caused by a sudden injury to the muscles, ligaments, bones, and nerves in the spine. The source of the pain may be: Compression fractures to the spine from osteoporosis Muscle spasm (very tense muscles that remain contracted) Ruptured or herniated disk Spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal) Spine curvatures (like scoliosis or kyphosis ), which may be inherited and seen in children or teens Strain or tears to the muscles or ligaments supporting the back Back pain may also be due to: An abnormal aortic aneurysm that is leaking Arthritis conditions, such as osteoarthritis , psoriatic arthritis , and rheumatoid arthritis Cancer that involves the spine Fibromyalgia Infection of the spine ( osteomyelitis , diskitis , abscess ) Kidney infection or kidney stones Problems related to pregnancy Medical conditions that affect the female reproductive organs, including endometriosis , ovarian cysts , ovarian cancer , or uterine fibroids Symptoms You may feel a variety of symptoms if you've hurt your back. You may have a tingling or burning sensation, a dull achy feeling, or sharp pain. Depending on the cause, you also may have weakness in your legs or feet. Low back pain can vary widely. The pain may be mild, or it can be so severe that you are unable to move. Depending on the cause of your back pain, you may also have pain in your leg, hip, or bottom of your foot. See: Sciatica Signs and tests When you first see your doctor, you will be asked questions about your back pain, including how often it occurs and how severe it is. Your doctor will try to determine the cause of your back pain and whether it is likely to quickly get better with simple measures such as ice, mild painkillers, physical therapy, and proper exercises. Most of the time, back pain will get better using these approaches. Questions will include: Is your pain on one side only or both sides? What does the pain feel like? Is it dull, sharp, throbbing, or burning? Is this the first time you have had back pain? When did the pain begin? Did it start suddenly? Did you have a particular injury or accident? What were you doing just before the pain began? Were you lifting or bending? Sitting at your computer? Driving a long distance? If you have had back pain before, is this pain similar or different? In what way is it different? Do you know the cause of previous episodes of back pain? How long does each episode of back pain usually last? Do you feel the pain anywhere other than your back, like your hip, thigh, leg or feet? Do you have any numbness or tingling? Any weakness or loss of function in your leg or elsewhere? What makes the pain worse? Lifting, twisting, standing, or sitting for long periods of time? What makes you feel better? Are there any other symptoms present? Weight loss? Fever? Change in urination? Change in bowel habits? During the physical exam, your doctor will try to pinpoint the location of the pain and figure out how it affects your movement. You will be asked to: Sit, stand, and walk. While walking, your doctor may ask you to try walking on your toes and then your heels. Bend forward, backward, and sideways. Lift your legs straight up while lying down. If the pain is worse when you do this, you may have sciatica , especially if you also feel numbness or tingling in one of your legs. Your doctor will also move your legs into different positions, including bending and straightening your knees. All the while, the doctor is assessing your strength as well as your ability to move. To test nerve function, the doctor will use a rubber hammer to check your reflexes. Touching your legs in many locations with a pin, cotton swab, or feather tests your sensory nervous system (how well you feel). Your doctor will ask you to speak up if there are areas where the sensation from the pin, cotton, or feather is duller. Most people with back pain recover within 4 - 6 weeks. Therefore, your doctor will probably not order any tests during the first visit. However, if you have any of the symptoms or circumstances below, your doctor may order imaging tests even at this initial exam: Accident or injury Fever Muscle weakness Numbness Pain that has lasted longer than one month Weight loss You are over 65 You have had cancer or have a strong family history of cancer In these cases, the doctor is looking for a tumor, infection, fracture, or serious nerve disorder. The symptoms above are clues that one of these conditions may be present. The presence of a tumor, infection, fracture, or serious nerve disorder will change how your back pain is treated. Tests that might be ordered include an x-ray , CT scan of the lower spine , or MRI of the lower spine. Hospitalization, traction ,or spinal surgery should only be considered if nerve damage is present or the condition fails to heal after a prolonged period. Many people benefit from physical therapy. Your doctor will determine whether you need to see a physical therapist and can refer you to one in your area. The physical therapist will begin by using methods to reduce your pain. Then, the therapist will teach you ways to prevent getting back pain again. If your pain lasts longer than one month, your primary care doctor may send you to see either an orthopedist (bone specialist) or neurologist (nerve specialist). Treatment To get better quickly, take the right steps when you first get pain. Here are some tips for how to handle pain early on: Stop normal physical activity for the first few days. This helps calm your symptoms and reduce inflammation. Apply heat or ice to the painful area. Try ice for the first 48-72 hours, then use heat. Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) or acetaminophen (Tylenol). While sleeping, try lying in a curled-up, fetal position with a pillow between your legs. If you usually sleep on your back, place a pillow or rolled towel under your knees to relieve pressure. A common misbelief about back pain is that you need to rest and avoid activity for a long time. In fact, bed rest is NOT recommended . You may want to reduce your activity only for the first couple of days. Then, slowly start your usual activities after that. Do not perform activities that involve heavy lifting or twisting of your back for the first 6 weeks after the pain begins. After 2 - 3 weeks, you should gradually resume exercise. Begin with light cardiovascular training. Walking, riding a stationary bicycle, and swimming are great examples. Such aerobic activities can help blood flow to your back and promote healing. They also strengthen muscles in your stomach and back. Stretching and strengthening exercises are important in the long run. However, starting these exercises too soon after an injury can make your pain worse. A physical therapist can help you determine when to begin stretching and strengthening exercises and how to do so. AVOID the following exercises during initial recovery unless your doctor or physical therapist says it is okay: Ballet Football Golf Jogging Leg lifts when lying on your stomach Sit-ups with straight legs (rather than bent knees) Weight lifting Support Groups Many people will feel better within 1 week after the start of back pain. After another 4 - 6 weeks, the back pain will likely be completely gone. Complications Call your doctor right away if you have: Back pain after a severe blow or fall Burning with urination or blood in your urine History of cancer Loss of control over urine or stool (incontinence) Pain traveling down your legs below the knee Pain that is worse when you lie down or that wakes you up at night Redness or swelling on the back or spine Severe pain that does not allow you to get comfortable Unexplained fever with back pain Weakness or numbness in your buttocks, thigh, leg, or pelvis Also call if: You have been losing weight unintentionally You use steroids or intravenous drugs. You have had back pain before, but this episode is different and feels worse. This episode of back pain has lasted longer than 4 weeks. Prevention See: Taking care of your back at home References US Preventative Services Task Force. Primary Care Interventions to Prevent Low Back Pain: Brief Evidence Update . Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; February 2004. Anema JR, Steenstra IA, Bongers PM, de Vet HC, Knol DL, Loisel P, van Mechelen W. Multidisciplinary rehabilitation for subacute low back pain: graded activity or workplace intervention or both? A randomized controlled trial. Spine . 2007;32:291-298. Chou R, Qaseem A, Snow V, Casey D, Cross JT Jr, Shekelle P, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society. Ann Intern Med . 2007;147:478-491. Chou R, Fu R, Carrino JA, Deyo RA. Imaging strategies for low-back pain: systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet . 2009;373:463-472. Chou R, Loeser JD, Owens DK, Rosenquist RW, et al; american Pain Society Low Back Pain Guideline Panel. Interventional therapies, surgery, and interdisciplinary rehabilitation for low back pain: an evidence-based clinical practice guideline from the American Pain Society. Spine . 2009;34:10660-1077. Jüni P, Battaglia M, Nüesch E, Hämmerle G, Eser P, et al. A randomised controlled trial of spinal manipulative therapy in acute low back pain. Ann Rheum Dis . 2009;68:1420-1427. Review Date: 5/25/2010 Reviewed By: A.D.A.M. Editorial Team: David Zieve, MD, MHA, and David R. Eltz. Previously reviewed by C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Assistant Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder Service, UCSF Dept. of Orthopaedic Surgery (7/10/2009). A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission ( www.urac.org ). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy , editorial process and privacy policy . A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation ( www.hon.ch ). The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only - they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. Copyright 2009 A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Find a Physician Find a Physician Search By Last Name Search By Department By Department Cardiology Cardiothoracic Surgery Center For Women`s Health Dermatology Emergency Medicine Family, Community And Preventive Medicine General Internal Medicine Infectious Diseases And HIV Medicine Medicine Nephrology Neurology Obstetrics And Gynecology Ophthalmology Oral And Maxillofacial Surgery Otolaryngology, Head And Neck Surgery Pathology And Laboratory Medicine Pediatrics Psychiatry Pulmonary Radiation Oncology Rheumatology Surgery Toxicology Search By Specialty By Specialty Abdominal Pain Acid Peptic Disease Acid Reflux Disease Addiction Medicine Adolescent Medicine Adult Pain Disorders Adult Psychiatry Adult Psychology Adult Therapy Allergy Ambulatory Pediatrics Anatomic And Clinical Pathology Anatomic Pathology Anesthesia & Critical Care Asthma Autism - Children Barrett`s Esophagus Biliary Disease Brachytherapy Breast - Surgery Breast - Surgery - Non Cosmetic Breast - Surgery Inverted Nipples Breast Malignancies Breast Surgery Cancer Clinical Trials Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiography Cardiology Cataract Surgery Central Nervous System Infections Child And Adolescent Psychiatry Child Psychiatry Clinical Cardiology Clinical Dermatology Clinical Neurology Clinical Neuropsychology Clinical Pathology Clinical Psychology Colitis Colon Cancer Screening Colorectal Surgery Community Medicine Complications Of Acid Reflux Consultation Liaison Psychiatry Coronary Artery Bypass Critical Care Medicine Crohn`s Disease Cystic Fibrosis Adult Dermatology Developmental Pediatrics Diagnostic Radiology Electrophysiology Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Environmental Medicine Epilepsy ERCP Executive Health And Wellness Family Medicine Family Planning Fibroid Tumor Gastroenterology General Obstetrics & Gynecology General Pediatric Surgery Pediatrics General Surgery Genetics GERD Gynecologic Oncology Gynecology Gynecology - Adolescent Gynecology - Adult Gynecology - Clinical Trials Gynecology - General Head And Neck Surgery Headache Heart Failure Heart Transplantation Hematology Hematopathology HIV Hospitalist Services Hypersensitivity Disorders Hypertension Immunocompromised Host Immunology Infectious Diseases Inflammatory Bowel Disease Internal Medicine Interstitial Lung Diseases Irritable Bowel Syndrome Juveniles With Rheumatoid Arthritis Kidney Disease - Chronic Kidney Transplant Liver Biliary Liver Transplant Lupus Multiple Sclerosis Medical Toxicology Mental Disorders In Primary Care Midwife Migraine Headaches Motility Disorders Neonatal Medicine Nephrology Neurology Neurology - Demyelination Neurology - General Neuropathology Neuropsychology Neurosurgery Nuclear Cardiology Obstetrical Care Obstetrics & Gynecology Obstetrics - General Occupational Medicine Colonoscopy Oncology Ophthalmology Oral Medicine Oral Mucosal Diseases Oral Reconstruction Orbital Tumors Orthopedic Surgery Otolaryngology Otolaryngology, Head And Neck Surgery Otology Pathology PCOS Pediatric Surgery Pediatric Neuropsychological Testing Pediatrics Pediatrics -- Orthopedic Surgery Pediatric Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Pregnancy - Hypertension Preventive Medicine Primary Care Primary Care - Asthma Primary Care - Rheumatology Psychiatry - Child Adolescent Psychiatry - General Adult Pulmonary Disease Pulmonology Radiation Oncology Radiology Rheumatology Sarcoidosis Seizure Disorders Sexually Transmitted Diseases Sleep Disorders Sports Medicine Stroke Surgical Pathology Toxicology Transplant Surgery Trauma And Critical Care Urinary Tract Infection Vaginal Infection Vaginal Lesions Vaginitis Valve Repair Vascular Access Vascular Surgery Women`s Health Wound Care And Vascular Surgery Learn more about our doctors and medical practices . Related Information Lumbar vertebrae Drexel University Copyright © 2011 Drexel University College of Medicine. Privacy Policy Philadelphia Health & Education Corporation d/b/a/ Drexel University College of Medicine is a separate not-for-profit subsidiary of Drexel University . Drexel University is not involved in patient care. Javascript