<0.1% Saturated 
                                fat 1.4 
                                g/100g C18:1 
                                Oleic 4.9% Protein 
                                (N x 6.25) 0.8 
                                g/100g C20:1 
                                Eicosenic <0.1% Ash 3.8 
                                g/100g C22:1 
                                Docosenoic <0.1% Carbohydrates 
                                Total 78 
                                g/100g C24:1 
                                Nervinic 0.3% Fructose 39 
                                g/100g Total 
                                mono-unsaturated 5.6% Glucose 8.4 g/100g Sucrose 0.8 /100g Poly-unsaturated Maltose <0.2 g/100g C18:2w6 Linoleic 38.3% Lactose <0.2 g/100g C18:3w6 gamma-Linolenic <0.1% C18:3w3 alpha-Linolenic 16.5% Saturated C20:2w6 Eicosadienoic 0.3% C4:0 Butyric <0.1% C20:2w5 Eicosatrienoic <0.1% C6:0 Caproic 0.2% C20:4w6 Arachidonic <0.1% C8:0 Caprylic <0.1% C20:5w3 Eicosapentaenoic 0.9% C10:0 Capric <0.1% C22:2w6 Docosadienoic 0.2% C12:0 Lauric 0.4% Omega 3 Fatty Acids 17.8% C14:0 Myristic 0.7% Omega 6 Fatty Acids 39.1% C15:0 Pentadecanoic 0.1% C22:4w6 Docosatetraenoic 0.3% C16:0 Palmitic 30.0% C22:5w3Docosapentaenoic 0.1% C17:0 Margaric 0.4% C22:6w3Docosahexaenoic 0.3% C18:0 Stearic 2.3% Total Poly-unsaturated 56.9% C20:0Arachidic 0.9% C22:0 Behenic 1.4% Total Mono Trans Fatty Acid <0.1% C24:0 Lignocaric 0.7% Total saturated 37.1% Total Poly Trans Fatty Acid 0.5% P:M:S ratio 1.5:0.2:1 Typical analysis of Evolution Vitamins Provitamin A B1 Thiamine B2 Riboflavine B3 Niacin B6 Group Pantothenic acid Biotin B12 Folic acid Choline Inositol Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Chlorophylls Carotenes ORMEs monatomic gold 663ppm monatomic rhodium 3210ppm monatomic iridium 2290ppm Minerals Boron Calcium Chlorine Chromium Cobalt Copper Iodine Iron Lithium Magnesium Manganese Molybdenum Phosphorous Potassium Rutin Selenium Silicon Sodium Sulphur Titanium Zinc Amino Acid Anaysis mg/g after hydrolysis Alanine 8.4 Arginine 9.8 Asparagine 
                                + Aspartic 
                                acid 14.3 Glutamic 
                                acid + Glutamine 18.4 Glycine 6.1 Histidine 3.3 Isoleucine 6.3 Leucine 11.0 Lysine 9.5 Methionine 1.9 Phenylalanine 6.5 Proline 18.4 Sarcosine 0.07 Sarina 4.6 Threonine 6.0 Tryptophan 0.49 Tyrosine 3.4 Valine 6.2 Others Alpha-amino-butyric-acid Auxins Brassins Crocetin Flavonoids Hexodecanal Kinins Lecithin Mannans Nucleic acids Nuclein Pentosans Phenolic acids Terpenes Vernine Xanthophylls Zeaxanthin Fats Linoleic Oleic Omega 
                                3 Omega 
                                6 Palmitic Saponins Sterols The nutritional make-up of Barley Grass / 100g powder Energy 1550kJ Chlorophylls 200mg Manganese 2mg Protein 28g Carotenes 64mg Iron 14mg Fat-Total 6g Folates 1300mcg Copper 1mg Omega-3 ALA 4g Moisture 3.6g Chromium 92mcg Saturates 0.7g Ash 10.5g Zinc 2.7mg Carbohydrate total Sugars 3.3gm 53g Vitamin C 191mg Potassium 3800mg Crude Fiber 18g Phosphorous 290mg Sodium 400mg Magnesium 150mg Calcium 400mg Barley Grass Amino Acid profile per 100g after hydrolysis Alkamine 7.4g Hisridine 2.5g Proline 5.8g Arginine 6.9g Isoleucine 4.1g Serine 5.6g Aspartic Acid 12.8g Leucine 9.4g Threonine 0.6g Glutamic Acid 13.8g Lysine 7.7g Tyrosine 4.5g Glycine 5.7g Phenylalanine 5.9g Valine 7.7g Nutritional make up of Maca Energy 1542kj Minerals Fats 1.9g Calcium Total sugars 31.3g Copper Potassium 1700mg Iron Protein 14.6g Iodine Carbohydrates 72.1g Manganese Sodium 39mg Potassium Calcium 351mg Sodium Amino 
                                Acids Zinc Alanine Arginine Fats/Lipids Aspartic acid Linoleic Glutamic acid Palmitic Glycine Oleic Histidine HO-Proline Isoleucine Leucine Lysine Methionine Phenylalanine Proline Sarcosine Serine Threonine Tryptophan, Tyrosine, Valine Major substances present in Aloe Vera barbadensis 1) Low molecular weight Barbaloin(Aloin, isomers A and B) Phenta-hydroxyflavones Homonataloin Minerals and their salt Aloesin Calcium Oxalate Alomoin D-X ylotocopherol Saponins Pentahydroxyflavones Asparagine Limonene Flavonoids and Glycosides Lupeol Galacturonic and hexauronic acids Glucosamine 
                          and glutamine Fatty acids and esters Vitamins Myrcene Terpenoids Tannins Carditionic glycosides Tryptolidine Phenols Sulfur derivates Biological growth factors B-Sitosterol, and sterols Alkaloids Isoprenoids Salicyclic acid 2) High molecular weight a) Mucilagenous polysaccharides, neutral B (1-4) 
                          mannans, acidic galacturonic mannans and galacto-mannans. b) Glycoproteins c) Enzymes á Isoenzymes á Catalases á Cellulases á Bradykinase á Carboxypeptidases GLYCONUTRIENTS Scientists 
                          have recently discovered that in the modern diet many 
                          vital nutrients are missing including the glyconutrients, 
                          which are a group of biologically active sugars. These 
                          specific natural substances are immune enhancers that 
                          prepare and optimize our defense system and can provide 
                          us with added protection by immoblising the immune system 
                          when required. Some researchers have called these glyconutrients 
                          Òmiracle sugarsÓ. These sugars are considered critical 
                          and essential for human health. These 
                          glyconutrients are required for every cell in the body 
                          to function and these sugars sustain complex processes 
                          that occur in the cell to transfer coded messages. These 
                          sugars should not be confused with common table sugar, 
                          which is refined sugar, also known as sucrose The term ÔGlyco Ò is derived from the Greek word meaning 
                          Ò sweetÕ. Therefore a glyconutrient is any substance 
                          that contains sugar and the sugar can be attached to 
                          any molecule and is also termed a glycoform. Glyconutrients are the recently discovered class of 
                          necessary carbohydrate nutrients and although there 
                          are over 200 specific carbohydrate monosaccharides only 
                          a few are considered Ônecessary biologically active 
                          sugarsÕ. There are 8 specific and 3 intermediate biological 
                          sugars and it is important to have a balance of these 
                          sugars, as refined white sugar is over consumed and 
                          provides little benefit to our health. Plants that have a high glyconutrient content are known 
                          as Ô healing plants. Glyconutrients are found in Aloe Vera, garlic, yeasts, 
                          coconut, maize, some algae, Echinacea, saps, gums and 
                          certain mushrooms. The leaves of Aloe Vera are extremely rich in the long chain sugars 
                          (polysaccharides) that give Aloe Vera its healing and 
                          anti - infective properties when used both internally 
                          and externally. Aloe contains mannose, galactose and 
                          arabinose and it is the mannose content that makes it 
                          a superior immune booster. Studies show that aloe vera has numerous properties, 
                          namely, Anti-fungal, anti-viral, anti bacterial, and 
                          anti-inflammatory properties. The following sugars are required in the diet and breast 
                          milk contains all the essential sugars. Mannose, Xylose and Fucose are not readily available 
                          in the diet. Mannose and Fucose have well documented 
                          benefits for the immune system, has a natural anti-inflammatory 
                          effect and may lower blood sugar levels. Xylose is used 
                          in sweets, does not cause tooth decay and has anti-bacterial 
                          and anti-fungal properties. Glucose and galactose are readily available in the diet. 
                          Glucose occurs in sugar, rice, potatoes, corn and wheat 
                          and other starchy foods. Galactose is Òmilk sugarÓ and 
                          is derived from lactose. The sugars with an acetyl group, namely, N-acetyl-neuraminic 
                          acid, N-acetyl- glucosamine and N-acetyl-galactosamine 
                          are not readily available in the diet. N-acetyl-neuraminic acid is abundant in breast milk; 
                          effects brain function and boosts the immune system. N-acetyl- glucosamine is beneficial for cartilage regeneration 
                          and joint inflammation. Glucosamine is derived from 
                          this sugar compound. The least information is known about the essential sugar 
                          N-acetyl-galactosamine. Glyconutrients are essential in virtually every interaction 
                          between cells and are an immune system modulator. They 
                          are involved in cell-cell communication and are a vital 
                          part of how a cell functions, similar to an Ôoperating 
                          systemÕ. In particular studies on the function of the 
                          brain, they indicate glyconutrients increase reaction 
                          time and concentration. An inadequate intake of the essential sugars requires 
                          the body to synthesize the necessary glyconutrients 
                          from other sources. If there is a deficiency of the 
                          needed glyconutrients from other sources, the cells 
                          ability to carry out the intercellular communications 
                          is limited and most probably defective making the organism 
                          susceptible to disease. A supply of glyconutrients to 
                          the body promotes and maintains health. There have been numerous studies performed worldwide 
                          at universities and major pharmaceutical companies and 
                          this research is ongoing. Research has shown the effects of the biologically active 
                          sugars are: - Boosts 
                            the immune system by increasing natural killer cell 
                            and macrophage count. These cells are the first line 
                            of defense. Mannose 
                            stimulates macrophages and also initiates other the 
                            secretion of cytokines involved in the immune cascade. 
                            T Cells are also activated under certain conditions. Assists 
                            immune cells recognize invaders or foreign antigens 
                            and enables cells to communicate initiating the right 
                            intercellular reactions. Has antioxidant 
                            properties protecting the body against free radical 
                            damage. Due to 
                            their saccharide components glyconutrients have anti-inflammatory 
                            properties and are beneficial for cartilage regeneration 
                            and joint inflammation. VITAMINS A vitamin is a chemically organic substance, containing 
                          carbon, essential for regulating both the metabolic 
                          functions in the body cells and the biochemical processes 
                          that release energy from food. In addition, evidence 
                          is accumulating that certain vitamins are antioxidants 
                          Ð substances that protect tissues from cell damage and 
                          may possibly help to prevent a number of degenerative 
                          diseases. With a few exceptions, namely, vitamin D and vitamin 
                          K the body cannot manufacture vitamins so they must 
                          be ingested. There are 13 known vitamins, which are classified as 
                          water-soluble or fat-soluble. This distinction is important 
                          because the body stores fat-soluble vitamins for a long 
                          time (months or even years), whereas water-soluble vitamins 
                          (except for vitamin B 12 remain in the body 
                          for a short time and must be replaced regularly. The Water-soluble vitamins are vitamin C (ascorbic acid) and eight 
                          members of the vitamin B complex- thiamine (B1), riboflavin 
                          (B2), niacin, pyridoxine (B6), folic acid, cobalomin, 
                          (B12), biotin and pantothenic acid. The Fat-soluble vitamins are retinal (vitamin A), cholecalciferol 
                          and ergocalciferol (vitamin D), a- tocopherol (vitamin 
                          E), and phylloquinone and menaquinone (vitamin K). Only 
                          vitamins A, E and B12 are stored to a significant extent 
                          in the body. VITAMIN A AND CAROTENES. Vitamin A (retinol) was the first recognized fat-soluble 
                          vitamin and rapidly gained recognition as a factor in 
                          the maintenance of the immune system. Carotenes are the most widespread 
                          group of naturally occurring pigments in nature. These 
                          occur in green leafy vegetables and are converted to 
                          retinol in the mucosal cells of the small intestine. 
                          Retinol is then reduced to retinal and then esterified. 
                          Most of the bodyÕs vitamin A is stored in the liver 
                          as retinyl palmitate . The conversion of provitamin A carotenes to vitamin 
                          A depends on several factors, including protein status, 
                          zinc and vitamin C. Vitamin A is vital for the visual system, particularly 
                          the components of the eye, skin, mucous membranes of 
                          the respiratory, genitourinary and gastrointestinal 
                          tracts. The immune system abnormalities associated with 
                          Vitamin A deficiency include an impaired ability to 
                          mount an effective antibody response. The role of vitamin A and the carotenes in the maintenance 
                          of epithelial tissues cannot be over emphasized. Inadequate intake can cause: - Impaired 
                            dark adaptation and night blindness related to the 
                            retina, Damage 
                            to the cornea and conjunctiva of the eye Alterations 
                            to the mucous lining of the respiratory, genitourinary 
                            and gastrointestinal tracts (keratinisation) so the 
                            function is impaired Increased 
                            susceptibility to infections (immune system) Changes 
                            to skin (follicular keratosis). It is believed Vitamin A affects growth and development 
                          as it has a role in the synthesis of many glycoproteins 
                          (mucus), which may control cellular differentiation 
                          and gene expression. Carotenes have antioxidant activity. THIAMINE (VITAMIN B1). Thiamine was the first B vitamin discovered and was 
                          named vitamin B1. The active form of thiamine is the coenzyme thiamine 
                          pyrophosphate and is essential for proper energy production 
                          and participates in carbohydrate metabolism. Thiamine is involved with the other B vitamins in energy 
                          metabolism. Magnesium is required in the conversion 
                          of thiamine to its active form. Inadequate intake affects the brain, spinal cord, heart, 
                          gastrointestinal tract and the peripheral nervous system 
                          and may result in fatigue, poor memory, and constipation. The syndrome of peripheral neurological changes due 
                          to thiamine deficiency is called dry beriberi. The changes begin with pins and needles sensations 
                          in the toes and feet, burning sensation in the feet 
                          and muscle cramps in the calves. When the heart is mainly affected the condition is called wet beriberi. This 
                          is high output cardiac failure and may result in pulmonary 
                          oedema and swelling of the feet. Thiamine is essential for proper energy production in 
                          the brain. The combination of thiamine deficiency and 
                          alcohol can produce Cerebral beriberi, which 
                          is called Wernicke- KorsakoffÕs syndrome, a serious 
                          brain disorder. RIBOFLAVIN (B 2 ) Riboflavin was first recognized as a yellow Ð green 
                          pigment in milk. Riboflavin functions in two important enzymes FMN (flavin 
                          mononucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). 
                          These act as essential coenzymes in many reactions involved 
                          in carbohydrate metabolism. Green leafy vegetables are a source of riboflavin. Inadequate intake results in oral, ocular, cutaneous 
                          and genital lesions. The most common signs are pallor and maceration of the 
                          mucosa in the angles of the mouth (angular stomatitis) 
                          and a red colour to the lips (cheilosis) followed by 
                          fissures that may leave scars when healed. There are 
                          other signs of disorders of the mucous membranes. Rarely 
                          there may be changes to the eye. Riboflavin is crucial in the production of energy and 
                          is involved in regenerating glutathione, one of the 
                          main cellular protectors of free radical damage. Riboflavin 
                          interacts with thiamine. NIACIN (B 3 ) As the body converts tryptophan to niacin, niacin is 
                          not considered an essential nutrient as long as tryptophan 
                          intake is adequate. Niacin is a component of the coenzymes NAD and NADP, 
                          which play an important role in energy production, fat, 
                          cholesterol and carbohydrate metabolism and in the manufacture 
                          of many body compounds including sex and adrenal hormones. 
                          It is also involved in the regulation of blood sugar, 
                          antioxidant mechanisms and detoxification reactions. Inadequate intake causes pellagra, which is characterized 
                          by the 3 DÕs- diarrhea, dermatitis and dementia. The 
                          skin develops scaly dermatitis, the brain does not function 
                          properly leading to confusion and dementia and the diarrhea 
                          results from impaired manufacture of the mucous lining 
                          of the gastrointestinal tract. Niacin is involved with the other B vitamins in energy 
                          metabolism. VITAMIN (B 6 ) Vitamin B 6 comprises a closely related group 
                          of compounds: pyridoxine, pyridoxamine and pyridoxal. Vitamin B 6 is required for the proper functioning 
                          of more than 60 different enzymes and plays a vital 
                          role in the multiplication of all cells. Pyridoxine is an extremely important B vitamin 
                          involved in the formation of body proteins and structural 
                          compounds, chemical transmitters in the nervous system, 
                          red blood cells, prostaglandins and mucous membranes. Vitamin B 6 is critical in maintaining 
                          hormonal balance and proper immune function and is involved 
                          in the manufacture of all amino acid neurotransmitters. Inadequate intake is rare but secondary deficiency may 
                          occur and result in changes in the skin, mucous membranes, 
                          the peripheral nerves and in blood. Riboflavin and magnesium are necessary to convert pyridoxine 
                          to pyridoxal-5- phosphate and vitamin B 6 interacts 
                          with magnesium and zinc. PANTOTHENIC ACID (B 5 ) Pantothenic acid (vitamin B 5 ) is required 
                          in the manufacture of coenzyme A and acyl carrier protein, 
                          two compounds that play a critical role in the utilization 
                          of carbohydrates and fats in energy production and in 
                          the manufacture of adrenal hormones and red blood cells. A large number of foods contain pantothenic acid and 
                          its name is derived from the Greek word Òpantos Ò which 
                          means everywhere. Inadequate intake is characterized by Òburning foot 
                          syndromeÓ which consists of numbness and shooting pains 
                          in the feet. Panthothenic acid works in conjunction with carnitine 
                          and coenzyme Q 10 in fatty acid transport 
                          and utilization. BIOTIN Biotin is a B vitamin that functions in the manufacture 
                          and utilization of fats and amino acids (proteins). 
                          Without biotin, body metabolism is severely impaired. 
                          Biotin is manufactured in the intestines by gut flora. Biotin functions in the body as an essential co-factor 
                          for four enzymes. The enzymes are carboxylases that 
                          add a carbon dioxide molecule to another molecule to 
                          form a carboxyl group. Biotin-dependent carboxylases 
                          are involved in the metabolism of sugar, fat and amino 
                          acids. Inadequate intake is characterized by dry, scaly skin, 
                          nausea, anorexia and seborrheic dermatitis. FOLIC ACID (FOLATE) The name is derived from the Greek word folium , which means foliage because it is found 
                          in high concentrations in green leafy vegetables. Folic 
                          acid functions together with vitamin B12 in many body 
                          processes. It is critical to cellular division because 
                          it is necessary in DNA synthesis and without folic acid 
                          cells do not divide properly. Folic acid is essential 
                          for the development of the central nervous system of 
                          the foetus and a deficiency of folic acid during pregnancy 
                          has been linked to several birth defects including neural 
                          tube defects like spina bifida. Despite the wide occurrence of folic acid in food, folic 
                          acid deficiency is a common vitamin deficiency in the 
                          world. The reason reflects food choice as plants are 
                          a rich source but are not frequently consumed. Inadequate intake affects all cells of the body but 
                          the rapidly diving cells such as red blood cells and 
                          the cells of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary 
                          that are affected the most. This may result in poor growth, diarrhoea, 
                          anaemia, gum disease and an abnormal pap smear in women. The anaemia of folic acid (or B12) deficiency is characterized 
                          by enlarged red blood cells (macrocytic anaemia). Folic 
                          acid is a methyl donor. It carries and donates methyl 
                          molecules to facilitate reactions, including the manufacture 
                          of DNA and neurotransmitters. Homocysteine is an intermediate in the conversion of 
                          the amino acid methionine to cysteine. An inadequate 
                          intake of folic acid results in raised levels of homocysteine. 
                          This compound promotes atherosclerosis by damaging the 
                          vessel walls and in osteoporosis elevated homocysteine 
                          levels lead to a defective bone matrix. Folic acid works together with vitamin B12, vitamin B6, 
                          Choline and SAM (S-adenosyl-methionine). CHOLINE Choline is essential in the manufacture of the important 
                          neurotransmitter acetylcholine and some of the main 
                          components of our cell membranes. Choline is also required 
                          for the proper metabolism of fat. Although choline can 
                          be manufactured from amino acid precursors, it has recently 
                          been considered an essential nutrient. When animals have an inadequate intake of choline they 
                          develop liver and kidney problems. An inadequate intake 
                          in humans results in liver dysfunction. Choline like folic acid acts as a ÒmethylÓ donor. Choline 
                          supplementation increases the accumulation if acetylcholine 
                          in the brain an important chemical in many brain processes 
                          and may improve memory. Choline works with other methyl donors and helps the 
                          body conserve folic acid and carnitine. INOSITOL Inositol functions closely with choline and is a primary 
                          component if cell membranes. Inositol is present mainly as a fibre component known 
                          as phytic acid. Intestinal bacteria liberate inositol 
                          from phytic acid. Inositol like choline exerts a lipotropic effect. This 
                          means it promotes export of fat from the liver. Inositol 
                          is necessary for proper nerve, brain and muscle function. Inositol works with other methyl donors. VITAMIN B 12 Vitamin B 12 is found mainly in animal foods. Vitamin B 12 works with folic acid in many 
                          body processes including DNA synthesis, red blood cells, 
                          and the insulation sheath (the myelin sheath) that surrounds 
                          nerves and conducts the impulse along the nerve. The 
                          stomach secretes intrinsic factor a substance required 
                          for the absorption of Vitamin B 12 . Vitamin B 12 is stored in the liver, kidney 
                          and other body tissues. Inadequate intake affects the brain, spinal cord and 
                          the classic blood changes are pernicious anaemia. Impaired 
                          nerve function can cause numbness, pins and needles 
                          or a burning sensation. In addition to anaemia and nervous 
                          system symptoms Vitamin B 12 deficiency can 
                          result in a beefy red tongue and diarrhoea. Vitamin B 12 like folic acid is a methyl donor 
                          and is involved in homocysteine metabolism and plays 
                          a critical role in energy metabolism, immune function 
                          and nerve function. Vitamin B 12 and folic acid work in conjunction 
                          and as B12 works to reactivate folic acid and inadequate 
                          intake of B 12 results in a folic acid deficiency 
                          only if folic acid levels are marginal. A high intake 
                          of folic acid may mask a B 12 deficiency as 
                          it prevents the changes in the red blood cells but does 
                          not counteract the changes in the brain. VITAMIN C The human body does not manufacture its own vitamin 
                          C. The primary function of Vitamin C is collagen formation, 
                          which is a major component of connective tissue, bones, 
                          cartilage, tendons and dentin. Specifically vitamin 
                          C aids in the joining of the amino acid proline to hydroxyproline 
                          resulting in a stable collagen structure. In addition to its role in collagen metabolism vitamin 
                          C is also critical to immune function, wound repair, 
                          healthy gums, the manufacture of certain hormones and 
                          the prevention of easy bruising. Vitamin C is a nutritional antioxidant. In adequate intake result in lassitude, muscle pains, 
                          joint pains, poor wound healing, bleeding gums, extensive 
                          bruising and multiple small haemorrhages into the skin. Vitamin C is intricately involved with other nutritional 
                          antioxidants especially vitamin E, selenium and b- carotene. 
                          Vitamin C increases the absorption of iron. VITAMIN D Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin and also considered 
                          a hormone, as our bodies can make it from sunlight. 
                          There are 2 major forms of vitamin D are D 2 (ergocalciferol) 
                          found in irradiated yeast and vitamin D 3 (cholecalciferol) formed in human skin by exposure 
                          to sunlight (ultraviolet light). Natural sources of 
                          vitamin D are cod liver oil, cold water fish, butter 
                          and egg yolks. The best vegetable sources of vitamin 
                          D are dark green leafy vegetables. Milk is fortified 
                          with both forms. Vitamin D is a prohormone with several active metabolites 
                          that act as hormones. In the skin previtamin D 3 is synthesized and slowly converted to vitamin 
                          D 3 which is removed by vitamin binding protein 
                          and transported to the liver where is converted to 25(OH)D 3 the major circulating form. It is reabsorbed from the 
                          gut and in the kidneys it is further converted to the 
                          active form 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 also called 
                          calcitrol or vitamin D hormone. The action of the active 
                          form is controlled by parathyroid hormone. The main function of vitamin D is to:- Increase 
                            calcium and phosphate absorption from the small intestine. Promote 
                            normal bone formation and mineralisation. Maintain 
                            extracellular calcium homeostasis through its interaction 
                            with parathyroid hormone. Groups at risk for low vitamin D levels are People 
                            in residential care. Older people 
                            admitted to hospital Dark skinned 
                            women (particularly if veiled) Causes of vitamin D deficiency are Reduced 
                            intake Reduced 
                            synthesis Abnormal 
                            gut function and malabsorption e.g. small bowel disorders 
                            as celiac disease and inflammatory bowel disorders. Pancreatic 
                            and liver disorders. Inadequate intake resulting in metabolic bone disease 
                          is called rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults. 
                          Rickets is abnormal formation of the developing bones 
                          and osteomalacia is demineralisation and softening of 
                          adultsÕ bones. VITAMIN E Vitamin E, a fat soluble vitamin, discovered in 1922, 
                          is a generic term for a group of related compounds called 
                          tocopherols which occur in four major forms, alpha (a), 
                          beta (b), delta (d) and gamma (g) tocopherols. Most 
                          animal species including human require vitamin E. a 
                          - tocopherol is the most common and most potent form. One of vitamin E Ôs basic functions is to protect cell 
                          membranes. In general, the tocopherols act as antioxidants 
                          to prevent lipid peroxidation of polyunsaturated fatty 
                          acids in cells membranes, meaning that is assists in 
                          destroying or neutralizing free radicals, the unstable 
                          oxygen molecules that cause damage to cells. Vitamin 
                          E is important to immune function protecting the thymus 
                          gland and circulating white blood cells from damage. The principal use of vitamin E is an antioxidant in 
                          the protection against heart disease and strokes. Good sources of vitamin E are seeds, nuts, whole grains, 
                          green leafy vegetables, berries and tomatoes. Low levels of vitamin E occur in:- Fat malabsorption 
                            syndromes such as celiac disease Premature 
                            infants Disorders 
                            of red blood cells Haemodialysis 
                            patients. The diseases caused by vitamin E deficiency are varied 
                          and may result in disorders of reproduction, abnormalities 
                          of liver, bone marrow and brain function, breaking (haemolysis) 
                          of red blood cells, muscle weakness and nerve damage. Vitamin E interacts with other antioxidants especially 
                          vitamin C and selenium, improves the use of vitamin 
                          A, may be required to convert B 12 to itÕs 
                          active form and protects essential fatty acids from 
                          being damaged. VITAMIN K Vitamin K is essential for the manufacture of clotting 
                          factors. Recent studies show that vitamin K is also 
                          necessary for healthy bones and may play a role in preventing 
                          osteoporosis. There are 3 forms of vitamin K Ð vitamin 
                          K 1 (phylloquinone) the natural vitamin K 
                          from plants; vitamin K 2 (menaquinone) derived 
                          from bacteria in the gut; and vitamin K 3 (menadione) a synthetic derivative. One of the best sources of vitamin K is fat-soluble 
                          chlorophyll and the natural chlorophyll found in green 
                          plants is fat-soluble. Green leafy vegetables and green 
                          tea are a rich source of vitamin K. Vitamin K plays an important role in bone health because 
                          it is responsible for converting a bone protein osteocalcin 
                          to its active form. Osteocalcin is the major non-collagen 
                          protein found in our bones and vitamin K is necessary 
                          for allowing osteocalcin to join with calcium and hold 
                          the calcium in the bone, assisting in the prevention 
                          of osteoporosis. Vitamin K deficiency is rare in healthy adults because 
                          the bacteria in the gut can produce vitamin K 2 . 
                          Since newborns do not have gut bacteria they are susceptible 
                          to vitamin K deficiency. However, vitamin K deficiency can occur in adults 
                          with a marginal dietary intake if they undergo extensive 
                          surgery or long term treatment with antibiotics. Vitamin K deficiency is caused by a reduction in clotting 
                          factors. Bleeding 
                          is the major manifestation whether the cause is dietary 
                          deficiency or antagonism of vitamin K by medications. 
                          Bruising, mucosal bleeding, excessive menstrual bleeding 
                          and haemorrhagic disease of the newborn occur. Reduced vitamin K leads to impaired mineralisation of 
                          the bone and an increased susceptibility to fractures. CHLOROPHYLL Chlorophyll, a phytochemical, is found in 
                          the chloroplasts of plants and is the substance that 
                          gives plants their green colour. This molecule, called 
                          a photoreceptor, absorbs sunlight and uses the energy 
                          to manufacture carbohydrates from CO 2 and 
                          water. This process, known as photosynthesis is essential 
                          for maintaining life in plants. The basic structure of chlorophyll is a porphyrin ring with a central atom, attached to a protein so it can function effectively. 
                          This is very similar in structure to haemoglobin; the structure in red blood cells that transports 
                          oxygen, except in haemoglobin the central atom 
                          is iron, whereas in chlorophyll it is magnesium. There 
                          are actually 2 types of chlorophyll, named a and b . 
                          Both of these two chlorophylls are very effective photoreceptors 
                          allowing the plant to absorb the energy from sunlight. 
                          This discovery resulted in chlorophyll becoming a useful 
                          nutritional aid. Chlorophyll can be altered when heated 
                          as the central Magnesium atom is replaced by hydrogen. Chlorophyll 
                          has a similar effect as iron and is a nutrient for red 
                          blood cells. This can assist cells to function at an 
                          optimal level in an oxygenated environment. It has been reported that chlorophyll cleanses 
                          the body, and strengthens the action of the vascular 
                          and intestinal systems. Chlorophyll is a body cleanser, rebuilder, and 
                          neutralizer of toxins. Chlorophyll deodorizes the bowel, is a natural antiseptic to 
                          the intestinal tract. It is useful in external skin applications and 
                          as gargle. Chlorophyll boosts the immune system and is an antioxidant, 
                          meaning it has the ability to scavenge free radicals, 
                          protecting cells from damage. As chlorophyll is digested it is transformed 
                          into pheophytins which are much more stable than naturally 
                          occurring chlorophyll and are absorbed in the small 
                          intestine. Chlorophyll is a potential anticarcinogenic 
                          substance and although the mechanism of action is varied, 
                          phytochemicals can inhibit carcinogenesis by inhibiting 
                          enzymes, scavenge DNA reactive agents and inhibit certain 
                          properties of a neoplastic cells. The chlorophyll in Evolution is in the barley 
                          grass, which is also rich in vitamins and minerals and 
                          amino acids. MINERALS Minerals are vital to human life. Without them, the 
                          body cannot function effectively. Minerals are inorganic substances that the body 
                          cannot manufacture. Minerals often work in partnership with 
                          vitamins. Even 
                          though minerals make up a small part of the body's actual 
                          weight, they are essential to life. Six macrominerals are required daily by humans in varying 
                          amounts. Four 
                          of them, cations (sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium) 
                          and two (phosphate and chloride) are anions. Nine trace minerals (microminerals) are also required 
                          daily, namely, iron, iodine, fluorine, zinc, chromium, 
                          selenium, manganese, molybdenum, and copper. BORON Since 1980, evidence suggests that boron plays a major 
                          role in calcium, magnesium and phosphorus metabolism, 
                          which is the major components of bone and recent research, 
                          indicates Boron has a protective effect against osteoporosis. Boron is necessary for the conversion of vitamin 
                          D to its active form. Interestingly a diet rich in fruit and vegetables offers 
                          significant protection against osteoporosis and osteoarthritis, 
                          2 conditions in which boron appears to offer benefit. Inadequate intake may be associated with an increased 
                          risk for postmenopausal bone loss and increased urinary 
                          excretion of calcium. CALCIUM Calcium in the most abundant mineral in the body and 
                          is vital to our health as 99% of all calcium in our 
                          bodies is found in our bones and it makes up 1.5-2% 
                          of the total body weight. Calcium builds healthy bones and teeth. Bone is dynamic living tissue constantly being 
                          replaced even in adults. Normal bone metabolism depends on many nutrients and hormones 
                          but for optimum bone health calcium and vitamin D are 
                          the most important factors. The primary source of calcium is dairy products but 
                          green leafy vegetables also contain calcium. Inadequate intake in children may lead to rickets (bone deformities) 
                          and growth retardation. In adults it may result in osteomalacia (softening 
                          of bones) and contributes to high blood pressure and 
                          osteoporosis. Low blood levels may result in muscle spasms and leg 
                          cramps. Calcium interacts with many nutrients especially vitamins 
                          D, K and magnesium. High doses of magnesium, zinc, fibre and oxalates reduce 
                          calcium absorption. Caffeine, alcohol, phosphates, protein, sodium and sugar 
                          increase calcium excretion. CHROMIUM In 1959 chromium was identified as a substance called 
                          the Òglucose tolerance factorÓ primarily because of 
                          its effects on blood sugar control mechanisms. Although it is thought to work closely with insulin 
                          in facilitating the uptake of glucose into cells, the 
                          apparent biological activity of chromium in promoting 
                          glucose tolerance remains unexplained. Without chromium, the action of insulin is impaired 
                          and blood sugar levels are elevated. Chromium is a factor in helping insulin work 
                          properly. COPPER Copper is an essential trace mineral involved in several 
                          key enzymatic reactions and is the third most abundant 
                          essential trace mineral after iron and zinc. The highest concentration of copper is in the 
                          brain and liver and copper is also distributed in skeletal 
                          muscle, bone, bone marrow and skin. Copper is a heavy metal present in the body bound to 
                          proteins. Excess 
                          copper absorbed in excreted via the bile. It is required to convert the body's iron into haemoglobin 
                          and is essential for the utilization of Vitamin C. Our 
                          brain nerves and connective tissues depend on copper. Inadequate intake results in iron deficiency and anaemia, 
                          as copper is required for iron absorption and utilization. Other symptoms are impaired immune function. Copper also assists in the cross linking of collagen 
                          and a deficiency results in poor collagen integrity. This poorly formed collagen results in damage to blood vessels, 
                          osteoporosis and bone and joint disturbances. Copper is a component of ceruloplasmin and superoxide 
                          dismutase and performs antioxidant functions and various 
                          copper complexes exert an anti- inflammatory effect. A high intake of vitamin C, zinc, iron and other minerals 
                          may decrease the absorption of copper. IODINE Iodine is a trace element required in the manufacture 
                          of thyroid hormone (thyroxine and triiodothyronine) 
                          and 80% of the body's iodine is in the thyroid gland. Inadequate intake of iodine results in a wide spectrum 
                          of illnesses and can affect any age but is particularly 
                          harmful in pregnant women and the newborn. The iodine 
                          deficiency disorders result in low thyroid hormone, 
                          which leads to an enlarged thyroid gland called a goitre. Since iodine influences the thyroid and the thyroid 
                          controls metabolism, iodine plays an important role 
                          in brain function, energy and weight gain. IRON Iron is an essential mineral and is critical for human 
                          life. It is necessary for the production of:- haemoglobin 
                          (red blood corpuscles) where it transports oxygen from 
                          the lungs to the bodyÕs tissues and returns carbon dioxide 
                          from the tissues to the lungs, myoglobin (red pigment 
                          in muscles) and certain enzymes including DNA synthesis. Iron deficiency is the commonest nutritional deficiency 
                          in the world and is the most common cause of anaemia 
                          and symptoms of anaemia such as extreme fatigue reflect 
                          a lack of oxygen being delivered to the tissues and 
                          a build up of carbon dioxides. Inadequate intake can also lead to excessive menstrual 
                          loss, learning difficulties, impaired immune function 
                          and decreased energy levels and physical performance. High intake of other minerals mainly calcium, magnesium 
                          and zinc can interfere with iron absorption. Vitamin C enhances iron absorption. Anti-inflammatory medications may contribute to iron 
                          loss via gastrointestinal bleeding. MAGNESIUM Magnesium is a mineral that has the ability to relax 
                          nerves and muscles. Its primary function is enzyme activation 
                          and approximately 60% of magnesium is in bone, 26% in 
                          muscle and the remainder in body tissues. The tissues with the highest magnesium are the 
                          most metabolically active, namely, brain, heart, liver 
                          and kidney. Most 
                          of the bodies' magnesium is within the cells and not 
                          in the serum (non cellular portion of blood). Green leafy vegetables are a good source of magnesium. Known as the "anti-stress" mineral, it also 
                          plays a role in helping to calm nerves. Magnesium is important in converting blood sugar 
                          into energy. This vital mineral is also necessary so 
                          our bodies can utilize Vitamin C, calcium, phosphorus, 
                          sodium and potassium in a more effective manner. Magnesium helps to keep teeth healthy and is 
                          a helper in bringing temporary relief from indigestion. MANGANESE: Manganese is a component of several enzyme systems and 
                          is essential for normal bone structure. Intake varies greatly as rich sources of manganese are unrefined 
                          cereals, green leafy vegetables and tea. Manganese functions in many enzyme systems including 
                          enzymes involved in blood sugar control, energy metabolism 
                          and thyroid hormone function. It also functions in the antioxidant enzyme superoxide 
                          dismutase (SOD), which prevents the damaging effects 
                          of free radicals. Manganese helps to nourish the body's nervous system, 
                          brain and regulate muscles in the body. It is found in virtually all body tissues. This mineral works as an activator in helping to stimulate 
                          enzymes that can convert protein, fats and carbohydrates 
                          into energy. It is important to both the male and female reproductive 
                          systems. Human manganese deficiency is not as well defined as 
                          in animals. Studies 
                          indicate that deficiency could lead to a disruption 
                          of normal growth and metabolism. MOLYBDENUM Molybdenum is a transition metal that forms oxides and 
                          functions as a component of several coenzymes including 
                          those involved in alcohol detoxification, uric acid 
                          formation and sulphur metabolism. Molybdenum is derived mainly from meats, whole grain 
                          cereals and legumes. The concentration of molybdenum in foods depends on 
                          the soil content. An inadequate intake of molybdenum manifests as an inability 
                          to detoxify sulphites because the enzyme sulphite oxidase 
                          is sulphite dependent. The features of sulphite toxicity 
                          are an increased heart rate, headache, nausea and vomiting. 
                          Molybdenum deficiency may be the cause of sulphite sensitivities. Molybdenum is almost completely absorbed from the intestinal 
                          tract. Apart from the interaction between copper and fluoride, 
                          there are no known interactions with other nutrients. PHOSPHOROUS Phosphorous, in the form of phosphate is critical for 
                          the formation and mineralisation of bone, the structure 
                          of teeth and works in conjunction with other minerals. Phosphorous is present in lecithin in the form of phospholipids, 
                          which are a unique mixture of nitrogen, fatty acids 
                          and glycerol and assists in the metabolism of fats and 
                          carbohydrates. Hormones produced by the pancreas, thyroid, and adrenal 
                          glands require small amounts of phosphorous to function 
                          effectively. POTASSIUM AND SODIUM Potassium and sodium, positively charged molecules, 
                          are electrolytes, which are mineral salts that conduct 
                          electricity when dissolved in water. A negatively charged molecule like chloride always 
                          accompanies potassium or sodium. Chloride is the ionic 
                          form of chlorine. Good sources of potassium are green leafy vegetables. Potassium is the most abundant cation inside cells and 
                          is mainly in muscle. Only about 2% of potassium occurs 
                          out side the cell and sodium is the major cation outside 
                          the cells, namely, the extracellular compartment. The total body sodium content is regulated by 
                          dietary intake and renal excretion. Potassium and sodium 
                          interact via a sodium-potassium pump, which is on the 
                          cell membrane and controls the amount of sodium and 
                          potassium inside and outside the cell. This pump also maintains the electrical 
                          charge of the cell for muscle contraction and nerve 
                          impulse transmission. Potassium is an important dietary electrolyte. It is essential for the conversion of 
                          blood sugar to glycogen, which is stored in the liver 
                          and used for energy. Insulin is vital for potassium 
                          to enter the cells and insulin disorders such as diabetes 
                          result in high blood potassium. A potassium deficiency is characterized by muscle weakness, 
                          fatigue, confusion, irritability, heart disturbances 
                          and problems in nerve conduction and muscle contraction. A depletion of potassium occurs through excessive 
                          sweating, diahorrea and vomiting. A diet low in potassium and high in sodium is associated 
                          with high blood pressure. Numerous studies show that a diet high in sodium 
                          and low in potassium plays a major role in the development 
                          of cancer and cardiovascular disease, namely, heart 
                          disease, high blood pressure and strokes. Patients with kidney disease do not handle potassium 
                          in the normal way. Potassium interacts with magnesium in many body systems. RUTIN Rutin is a member of the bioflavinoids, a group of metabolites 
                          occurring in plants. Rutin is important because it strengthens capillaries 
                          and controls the permeability of vessels walls. This may assist with bruising, haemorrhoids, 
                          and varicose veins. It is also a powerful antioxidant scavenging 
                          free radicals. It may be of value in high blood pressure 
                          and atherosclerosis. SELENIUM Selenium is a part of the enzyme system glutathione 
                          peroxidase, which metabolises hydroperoxides from polyunsaturated 
                          fatty acids. Selenium functions as an antioxidant in 
                          conjunction with vitamin E to prevent free radical damage 
                          to cell membranes and other antioxidants work synergistically 
                          to raise glutathione peroxidase levels. Selenium is required for the production 
                          of thyroid hormone and it is antagonistic to heavy metals 
                          like lead, mercury, aluminium and cadmium. The concentration of selenium in foods is directly related 
                          to the soil content. It has been reported that low levels of selenium are 
                          linked to a higher risk for cancer, cardiovascular disease 
                          and inflammatory diseases SILICON Silicon is the second most abundant element on earth 
                          and was recognized as an essential nutrient in 1972. The exact biological role of silicon is undetermined, however 
                          it is required for integrity of hair, skin, ligaments, 
                          tendons and bone. Rich sources of silicon are unrefined grains. Silicon is required for the enzyme prolyhydroxylase, 
                          that functions in the formation of collagen in bone, 
                          cartilage and other connective tissues. Silicon deficiency has not been documented in humans SULPHUR: Sulphur is vital for healthy hair, skin and nails. It 
                          also plays an important role in maintaining oxygen balance 
                          assisting the brain to function. Sulphur interacts with 
                          B-Vitamins. ZINC Zinc is in every cell in the body and is found mainly 
                          in bones, hair, teeth, skin, liver, white blood cells 
                          and testes. Other tissues with high zinc concentrations 
                          are kidney, pancreas, retina and prostate. Zinc is a component of at least 200 enzymes 
                          and functions in more enzymatic reactions than any other 
                          mineral. It is required for protein synthesis and 
                          cell growth and therefore for wound healing. Rich 
                          sources of zinc are shellfish, fish and meats. Good concentrations are found in several plant foods. Adequate zinc levels are essential to good health, as 
                          zinc is involved in virtually every aspect of immunity. Marginal zinc deficiency may result in an increased 
                          susceptibility to infection; poor wound healing, decreased 
                          sense of taste of smell and a number of minor skin disorders 
                          including acne, eczema and psoriasis. AMINO ACIDS Amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, are individual 
                          chemical substances found in foods that the body digests 
                          and then recombines to form specific proteins. Without amino acids there would be no proteins. There are two types of amino acids, essential 
                          and non-essential. The body can manufacture non-essential amino 
                          acids but essential amino acids are the components obtained 
                          from various food sources in the diet. Of the 20 amino 
                          acids in proteins, 9 are essential, all humans require 
                          8 and infants require two more, histidine and arginine. The essential amino acids are:- Histidine, Isoleucine, 
                          Leucine, Lysine, Methionine, Phenylalanine, Threonine, 
                          Tryptophan and Valine. Dietary proteins provide amino acids to build and maintain 
                          tissues. This 
                          need continues throughout life. Every cell in the body requires amino acids, 
                          which have the following functions:- Maintain 
                            and repair muscles, tendons, skin, ligaments, organs, 
                            glands, nail and hair. Production 
                            of certain hormones including insulin, thyroxine, 
                            adrenaline, parathyroid hormone, calcitonin and some 
                            of the pituitary hormones. Hormones are regulatory 
                            substances secreted by endocrine glands and are transported 
                            in the blood to specific sites. Formation 
                            of neurotransmitters, which are message-carrying chemicals 
                            in the brain. Involved 
                            in the synthesis of all enzymes including digestive 
                            enzymes and those required for oxidation, reduction 
                            and all chemical processes in the cell. á All antibodies in the blood belong 
                          to a class of proteins called immunoglobulins, which 
                          react to foreign antigens in the blood. This reaction is called the immune response. The 
                          amino acid composition of proteins varies widely. The extent to which a protein matches the amino acid composition 
                          of animal tissues determines its biological value (BV). An egg provides all of the essential amino 
                          acids in adequate amounts for protein synthesis and 
                          the BV is a 100. Animal proteins in milk and meat have 
                          a high BV (~90) whereas proteins in cereal and vegetables 
                          have a lower BV (~40). A correct balance in the diet 
                          is BV~70. The major cause of amino acid deficiency is a poor diet 
                          low in protein, amino acids and may be affected by infection, 
                          stress, trauma and medications. Important This information is intended for educational purposes 
                            only and is not recommended as a means of diagnosing, 
                            prescribing for, or treating any disease, illness, 
                            or injury. The author, publisher, and printer do not 
                            accept responsibility for such use. All matters concerning 
                            physical and mental health should be supervised by 
                            a health practitioner knowledgeable in treating that 
                            particular illness. It is hoped that this information 
                            will empower you to make more informed decisions regarding 
                            your health and wellbeing. REFERENCES: Vitamin D and adult bone health in Australia and New 
                          Zealand: a position statement. The medical journal of 
                          Australia 2005 vol 182 (6) pp281-283 Communication 24/2005 - Forest and sandplain pollen 
                          production in Western Australia - Department of Agriculture 
                          of Western Australia. Liu RH Potential synergy of phytochemicals in cancer 
                          prevention: mechanism of action. Journal of Nutrition 
                          2004 Dec;134(12 suppl):3479S-3485S Miracle sugars. The new class of Missing nutrients Rita 
                          Elkins 2003 Communication - Bulletin 4533 Pollen from Western Australia Department of Agriculture 
                          of Western Australia 2001 The healing power of vitamins, minerals and herbs. 2000 
                          Rebus Inc, New York. The Merck Manual of diagnosis and therapy. Section 1 
                          nutritional disorders pp 2- 56. seventeenth edition 
                          1999. Waladkhani AR, Clemens MR Internal Journal of Molecular Medicine 1998 Apr; 
                          1 (4) 747-53 Dr HeinermanÕs encyclopaedia of natureÕs vitamins and 
                          minerals .1998 Prentice Hall press. Encyclopedia 
                          of nutritional supplements. Michael T. Murray Prima 
                          Health 1996 Nutritional Herbology. Mark 
                          Pedersen Bountiful UT . Pedersen 1987 The How to Herb book. Pleasant 
                          Grove. UT: Keith,Velma and Monteen Gordon. Mayfield 
                          1984 Introduction to organic chemistry, Streitweiser and Heathcock MacMillam 
                          , New York, 1981 Common Therapy Need more 
                      energy? Unsure 
                      whether you are taking the correct supplements? Wish 
                      you were less stressed? Struggling 
 