Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 23 Dec 2009 21:17:00 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "06eca431584ca1:2160"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 11:43:41 GMT
Connection: close

Exercises for the hip region - Exercise Therapy Old TCM Website A/H1N1 flu TCM TCM News TCM And Life Diseases Inquiry TCM Answers TCM Encyclopaedia Video Gallery Literature Service And Products TCM Theory TCM Diagnosis TCM Helps On-Line Prevention And Rehabilitation Science Of Chinese Materia Medica TCM Prescription Sino-Western Medicine Joint TCM & Diseases TCM Natural Therapy Magazine TCM Activities Cases TCM Group TCM Search Tool Contact Us About Us Site Map Taking Chinese Medicine Diabetes Acne(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Aging Allergic rhinitis Anaemia(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Arthritis Asthma Bronchitis Cancer Cataract Chronic hepatitis Cervical spondylopatyh Colitis(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Constipation Depression Duodenal ulcer Eczema Eye care Fatigue Gallstone Glaucoma Gout Hay fever Heart diseases Hemorrhoid High Blood Pressure High cholesterol Impotence Insomnia Irritability kidney stone(TCM) Lumbago(TCM) Menopause(TCM) Menstrual disorder(TCM) Migraine headache(TCM) Obesity Osteo-arthrosis(TCM) periarthritis(TCM) Prostate disease(TCM) Psoriasis Insomnia(TCM) Rheumatoid arthritis Sciatica(TCM) Skin care(TCM) Spur(TCM) Stomach-ache(TCM) Thyroid disease(TCM) Tinnitus(TCM) Vertigo Parkinson(TCM) TCM Reflexology Asthma(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cervical spine disease Children's poor appe Common cold Constipation Diabetes Diarrhoea Frigidity Hemorrhoid Heart diseases Hypertension Headache(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Impotence Insomnia Irregular Menstruation Lumber muscle strain neurodermatitis Menopause(TCM PREVENTION) Obesity Parkinson Disease periarthritis(TCM PREVENTION) Prostate disease Psoriasis Rheumatoid arthritis Sinusitis Tinnitus(TCM PREVENTION) TCM Acupuncture Acute mastadenitis Sprain of soft tissues of the limbs Acute lumbar sprain Lumbago Rheumatoid arthritis Gonitis Thecal cyst External humeral epicondylitis Scapulohumeral periarthritis Stiff neck Dysfunction of temporomandibular joint Cervical spondylopathy Schizophrenia Globus hystericus Sequela of apoplexy Angioneurotic headache Intercostal neuralgia Sciatica Peripheral facial paralysis Diabetes Hyperthyroidism Seminal emission Prostatitis Prostatitis Retention of urine Urinary tract stones Infection of urinary tract Primary thrombocytopenic purpura Leukocytopenia Biliary tract infection and cholelithiasis Gastroptosis Gastric and duodenal ulcer Chronic gastritis Acute gastritis Coronary heart disease Arrhythmia Vomiting Toothache Tennis Elbow Painful Hemorrhoids Painful Elevation of the Arm Intestinal Worms Hysteria Epistaxis--Nosebleed Cystitis and Urethritis Coldness of the Extremities Car and Air Sickness Amenorrhea Acute Optic Neuritis Acute Lumbar pain Abdominal Pain Allergies Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Backache Colitis Constipation Depression Emotional instabilityaffective disoroers Gastro-intestinal disorders Gynecological disorders Headache Hypertension (high blood pressure) Infertility Insomnia Lumbar disc syndrome Menopause Migraine Neck Problnms Numbness Obesity Paralysis and paresis Parkinsonism Psoriasis Sciatica Sexual impotence Sinusitis (cgronic) Smoking Stroke residuals Tinnitus Trigeminal neuralgia TCM Herbal Tea Hypertension Formula Anti-Cancer Formula Health Care Formula Arthritis Care Formula Skin Revitalizing Formula Slim Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Cholesterol/Eyes Care Formula Diabetes Formula Migraine Formula Constipation Formula Detox/Purify Formula Prostate Care Formula Male Fertility Formula Female Fertility Formula Menopause Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Menstruation Formula Sciatica Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Skin Disease Formula Insomnia Formula Lumbago Formula(Traditional Chinese Medicine) Sinusitis Formula Swelling Care Formula Tinnitus Formula Stone Relief Formula Thyroids Formula Stomach & ulcer Formula Colitis Care Formula Asthma Formula Romance Formula Haircome Formula Cardiovascular Formula Web Encyclopaedia Answers Disease Acupoints Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs Joining TCM Group Meridians Collaterals Diagram of Herbs All Acupoints Here: Home -> Tuina & Massage -> Diagram of Massage Treatment -> Exercise Therapy >Information Exercises for the hip region From: TCM_xiaozhong Time: 2009-2-13 2:53:37 Acupuncture: TCM to the world a breakthrough "national essence of acupuncture," the story in the United States the special use of acupuncture "national essence of acupuncture," the story in the United States the special use of acupuncture Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Exercises for the hip region Hip exercises are useful for relieving soft-tissue injuries, strains of the hip joint, and after reduction of subluxation of the sacro-iliac joint. The exercises can be done standing or lying down. a) Opening and closing the hip joints The patient lies supine, with knees bent and splayed, heels together and pulled as close as possible to the buttocks. The knees are gradually separated until they touch the bed. The hips are then in abduction (Fig. 3-87). The knees are then brought together again (Fig. 3-88). The movements can be repeated 10-20 times. b) "Shaking the head and wagging the tail" The patient places her hands on bent knees and bends the waist forward, holding the trunk straight. Turn the fists to the left, dropping one shoulder slightly and letting the head drop in the same direction. Then the head makes a circular swinging movement to the left side; simultaneously, the buttocks wag to the left side (Fig.3-89). The exercise is repeated on the right side, then done again 30 times. c) Stamping the leg back The patient stands with hands on hips. Both feet step back one to two steps on pointed toes. Then slightly flex the knees and hips and stamp back hard, extending the ankle and straightening the lumbar region (Fig. 3-90). The same movement is done on the other side, and 30 movements on each side complete the course. d) Alternative adduction The patient lies supine with the legs extended and separated. The right leg is kept immobile, and the left leg is gradually lifted up and placed over the right side then returned to its original position (Fig. 3-91 ). The move is repeated with the right leg (Fig. 3-92). e) "Bow and arrow steps" The patient stands upright with both hands on hips. Move the left foot forward, then with torso straight, squat down gradually (Fig. 3-93). Repeat the exercise on each side 20 times. f) "Phoenix's fist" The patient stands with feet together. Squat quickly, bending the elbows and drawing the fists together, facing up. Heels remain on the ground, and the forearms are pressed between the abdomen and groin (Fig. 3-94). The patient suddenly stands up by extending both knees, opens the fists and lifts the arms upwards on both sides (Fig. 3-95). The movements are repeated 50 times. g) "Falling dishes" The patient stands upright with the feet separated to a distance slightly greater than that between the shoulders, and her fisted hands rest at the sides. In a semi-squatting position, the patient opens the fists and lifts her hands to the shoulders then turns the palms down and points the fingertips together. The hands press down together, as the patient squats, until the knees are bent 90 degrees. The patient's hands hang above the knees, and the back and head are kept upright. The knees are then separated, and the toes are turned out. After a little while, the fists are turned upward, as if to lift a heavy weight up to the chest, and at the same time the knees are gradually straightened. The moves can be repeated 10-20 times (Fig. 3-96). h) "Pulling the tails of nine cows" The patient stands with the hands resting at the sides. Stepping forward on the left foot, the patient lunges left, the right arm slightly bent and hand cupped, as if holding a heavy object. The left hand is placed in front of the chest with the elbow flexed, the shoulder abducted, placing the upper arm in a horizontal position. The patient's head is turned slowly to the left side. The move is repeated on each side 30 times (Fig. 3-97). i) Sit-ups The patient lies supine with legs extended and placed close together. Pull the shoulders together with hands laced behind the head and breathe in (Fig. 3-98). The patient gradually sits up using the contraction force of the abdominal muscles; the legs should be kept immobile. From the sitting position, the patient leans forward and exhales then repeats as many times as desired (Fig.3-99). j) Turning in and out The patient lies supine with the legs stretched straight and the toes pointing up. The feet are then turned in and pressed as close as possible to the bed (Fig. 3-100). The feet are then turned out to touch the bed on the other side (Fig. 3-101). k) Trailing the feet The patient stands with both hands on hips. The right foot is lifted and extended with the foot pointed slightly, then moved smoothly to the side and to the back. Bit by bit increase the speed and the arc of the swing (Fig. 3-102). Repeat on the left side (Fig. 3-103). 1) "Lifting a weight" The patient lies supine with legs together and stretched out. Gradually the right leg is lifted up as high as possible, keeping the knee straight. The foot is flexed back. After a short rest the foot is pointed and lowered to the bed (Fig. 3-104). The movement is repeated on the left. Copyright©tcmdiscovery.com,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department Exercises for the wrist and hand Exercises for the knee Extensive Reading Foot massage--- self-care massage video Life-cultivation and rehabilitation: good place of providing health physique！ TCM knows: health life should be talked freely TCM and life: life-cultivation and nourishment of face Mild Reminder Ten days Qigong Study Tour Guilin Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Gongfu and Painting Tour Traditonal Chinese Medicine Study Tour Customized Tours Design your own decision with our help to meet your unique interests.You don't have to compromise,just do exactly what you want to do!we will arrange the satisfied plan according to your demand.It includes the following aspects: Study Tours Health Tours Academic Exchange Tours Name: EMail: Theme: Questions: Special Recommendation Detox/Purify Capsules can help! Headache Pills! Gouteng-Hypertension Formula Juemingzi-Cholesterol/Eyes Care Formula New Feeling：Graceful Shape Begins from New Feeling! Guilin Sweet Yangshuo China Oriental Discovery TCM Service Questionnaire on Service Platform TCM Search Tool TCM expert group Service Platform for Patient Health Archive TCM literature User Control Panel TCM Helps On-Line Related Reading Acupuncture E-magzine show you the mystery of acupuncture manipulation and methods. Meridian and collateral illustration: effective meridian and collateral health care illustration of treating diseases Acupuncture and moxibustion illustration: the most authoritative and exceptional acupuncture and moxibustion illustration in the world Medical School Vasectomy, Male Infertility, Texas Vasectomy Reversal Clinic Dr Hamilton’s Chinese Medicine Clinic in Scotland The Rising Lotus Qigong Traditional Chinese Acupuncture by Guanhu Yang Chinese Medical Centre of Cyprus The Family of Light Healing Centre Acne treatment Sacramento dentistry Acai Berry Is Medical Tourism Safe? Acomplia Diet Pills Zimulti (Rimonabant) Personal Fitness Trainers Training Plan Bodymind Healing Center More Links More Links Copyright©2003,Guilin Sino-western Joint Hospital Chinese Medicine Advisory Department About Us | TCM | Reflexology | Acupuncture | Taiji | Qigong | Herbal Tea | Products | Advertise | Contact us | TCM Union | Site Map Tel: +86-773-5820588 Fax: +86-773-5845295 E-mail: tcmadv