Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

What causes severe cramping in the toes? Home Whats New Newsletter Privacy Policy Contact SII What causes severe cramping in the toes? by Karen (Merritt Island, FL) Hi Bart! Thanks for your kind comments about my rotator cuff tear story .  I really am doing well. I had something happen to me yesterday that was very odd, but quite painful too.  I was sitting in a chair with my feet up on a stool and all of a sudden the middle toe of my right foot cramped up, pushing the "knuckle" down instead of it being curved over and also sideways to the right.  It had a mind of its own going under my second toe from the right.  It felt like a "charley horse" in my toe, so I pulled all my toes up then pushed them all down, then massaged my toes and foot all over. It felt a little better but once I let go, it went back to as bad as it started.  Finally, after about 10-15 minutes it went away. Then a few minutes later, the same thing happened on my left side.  I proceeded for the next hour or so with the cramping and pain switching from one foot to the other.  I could walk, but only with limping. It was mysteriously gone in a few hours and hasn't come back.  What causes such an odd thing?  Should I run this by my orthopedic doctor? Thanks much....this is a great site! Karen Comments for What causes severe cramping in the toes? Average Rating Click here to add your own comments Jan 27, 2012 Rating Toe and finger cramps NEW by: Anonymous The other night my right index finger on my right hand bent down and straight and I couldn't move it. It really scared me and hurt me.I could move it with my other hand, but then it would revert back to being bent down and straight. A few minutes later it went away. Then my left middle toe stood straight up and hurt like hell. My husband thought I was goofing around but after inspecting my toes, he saw that I couldn't do that myself. Well, it went away after a few minutes and then the first toe on the right foot moved sideways and stayed like that. Hurt like hell again. Started me thinking about horrible diseases like Huntington's or Lou Gehrig's disease. I drink plenty of water daily. I just started taking vitamins because I don't eat enough fruits and veggies. I have this happen every so often. It hits my fingers hard. Different fingers each time. Also, sometimes when I yawn, I get a charley horse in my jaw, right underneath my jawbone. I can feel the lump. Boy does that ever hurt. I have to rub the lump to make it go away but if I yawn again, I get another charley horse. You can actually see the ball of muscle cramped under my jaw. I'm afraid it's some horrible disease just starting. Dec 07, 2011 Rating Bar Soap NEW by: Anonymous Audrey - my mother suffered from leg and foot cramps. Somewhere she heard of putting a bar of soap under her bottom bed sheet. It worked for her. She kept soap under her sheet for years.   .....which makes me wonder why I am currently searching the internet for a solution to my foot cramps.  :) I'll go get a bar of soap. Thank you for the reminder. Oct 23, 2011 Rating Soap by: Anonymous Hi Audrey, I suffer with terrible cramps in my toes and fingers, I am going to try the soap tonight and let you know how it works, Oct 14, 2011 Rating I am and Massage Therapist, I offer some insight. by: Miranda ok, I just got a new reclining sofa and chair. My aunt upon sitting in the chair withing an hour had this toe cramp where the toe moves sideways and then a few more hours later in her other foot the same thing. I am a licensed massage therapist and this is what I think. It has something to to with the way the foot is positioned. Most of you mentioned the foot being elevated either while on the couch or in a recliner. If you pay attention to where the leg is at rest you will see that the pressure of the chair is on you plantarflexion muscles. In other words the muscles that are responsible for pointing your toes. If your muscles are fatigued in anyway the pressure is a catalyst for a cramp. It is very important that we all drink the recommended amount of water every day. Also the supplements we lack in our diet as well. Whatever you doctor recommends dosage wise. Let him know your concerns and your dosage and he will advise you if it is adequate or not. And walking it out is essential. The muscle when it goes into a cramp means that the muscle is contracted... bearing wait and walking will make the muscle resume its normal function. Also STRETCHING on a regular basis is very important. Stretching makes the muscle contract and relax and will help work out any build up in the muscle. This works for any area in the body that you feel you have tightness or stress! Hope this helps! and you can find videos on youtube for stretches! message me at morandamo@yahoo.com if you have any other questions... Sep 03, 2011 Rating Amazing bodies need .... by: Carol Thanks everyone for sharing Your experiences...I have had horrible Pain like you all and from my research I have found out that magnesium causes our muscles to relax and calcium causes them to contract.  Our complex system needs the right balance of calcium,magnesium &potassium. google Dr. Carolyn Dean has excellent explanations of our Mg deficintcy in her book. I am 62 and have found that if I get 8 hours of sleep, keep hydrated ( living in FL we battle this) Eat out of our garden...and take Mg,Ca, I do not suffer. Epsom salt is magnesium sulfate...soak your feet and you will assorb.the Mg. Please read Dr. Dean's book...there is a reason why so many of us lack Mg in our bodies. .100years Ago our food provided 500mg daily...our soil today does not provide what we need ..she studied this issue for 5 yrs. Aug 10, 2011 Rating instant cure by: Anonymous there are no instant cures but for temporary and maybe! a little long term help try acupuncture, there are many methods and different spots to indirectly effect cramps. the electric flow and heating on spots along my spinal cord/back seems to have effects for me personally. i have to say that i played sports and climbed mountains for half my life, there have been some man-made cramps on my toes/etc. Having cramps on both feet is not fun but try driving a stick shift, lucky it was the freeway but even on the freeway it looked as if i was speeding up and then slowing down trying to stretch myself out without wanting to kick the gas pedal. But I noticed, couple things.... 1. cold weather before bed time especially 2. cold weather and then attempts to walk barefoot 3. in natural river where it is cold and i step on a bad shaped rock, it seems to trigger my old injuries. 4. don't exercise enough/warmup enough then attempting something far too strenuous 5. don't drink enough negative charged water 6. sauna and steam seems to help but one dive into a cold river and stepping on the wrong rock will set you back entirely I might add 7. too much UV and riding on motorcycle - vibration and uv damage to internal 8. try to rotate the toes in circular motions very slowly, then try to see where you can twist it till there is acute pain, then you can try again later the week to see if the range of motion has decreased or increased Aug 08, 2011 Rating Our feet holds our bodies, they do take a beat. by: Jo please consider all the med doctors are so good at writing rx's (consider your kidneys and other organs) for every thing that is unconfortable or conditions that become intense. The toes cramping is so painful that you want immediate relief. I find that standing on my feet pushing down stretching the muscles and nerves, helps control the pain, however, more so I find that if keep my feet warm (it's 105 today) especially if apply some vicks and socks it almost instant relief. But, I would like to know the cause? Jul 30, 2011 Rating cramps in my toes by: Anonymous Hi, when im lying down on the sofa with my feet up sometimes i get cramps in my toes, can you tell me what's causeing these cramps pls. AP Jul 20, 2011 Rating Toe Cramps by: Michelle I have a similar issue with toe cramps. They happen out of the blue, and sometimes after I wear heels. It's very painful and uncomfortable, because they just sort of "seize up" into a weird position, and separate. When I try to pull them back together, it takes much effort and it hurts, but then they just go right back to the same position. It lasts for only a few minutes, which is a blessing. Jul 20, 2011 Rating Toe Cramps by: Michelle I have a similar issue with toe cramps. They happen out of the blue, and sometimes after I wear heels. It's very painful and uncomfortable, because they just sort of "seize up" into a weird position, and separate. When I try to pull them back together, it takes much effort and it hurts, but then they just go right back to the same position. It lasts for only a few minutes, which is a blessing. Jul 18, 2011 Rating Severe Tow Cramping by: Anonymous I get cramps in my toes when I wear heels, but I only wear 2" heels and my shoes are not tight.  The cramping will start in my lover legs then proceed to my toes.  At times I can use a heat pad and the cramping goes away.  Sometimes I can walk it out.  But lately the cramps continue and the pain is so bad I can hardly walk.  I have been blessed not to have the cramps while I am driving.  It could definately cause you to have an accident.  When I get to my office, I wear a pair of clogs.  Is there anything out there I can use to help rid me of the pain and tow cramping? Jul 09, 2011 Rating leg & toe  cramps by: hazel I have had leg and toe cramps for years. I take plnnty of calcium magnesium.None of that works.When you could get QUININE SULFATE THE Doc gave me caps with a prescription.I have been taking that for cramps, it always works. I have worried about what I was going to do when I ran out so I started looking for something else.Hylands Leg Cramps with Quinine that you can fine at any Drug Store gets rid of cramps.QUININE sulfate is a great cramp stopper it do'es stop cramps. Jun 09, 2011 Rating CHARLEY HORSES by: Anonymous I have charley horses in my toes, my legs and even in my hips. I have checked out everything it could possibly be and what I have came up with is that it happens every time I eat sugar or at least too much sugar like a regular soda or a candy bar. Anything with a lot of sugar causes these dreadful things. I have tried everything and it seems potassium works better for me than anything but its not instant. I have to suffer for awhile til it goes through my system. By golly, I'm gonna try the soap remedy, surely won't hurt. Apr 17, 2011 Rating Toe cramps, hunger, and wine by: Anonymous I have been getting toe and leg cramps off and on, and the more I've read about them and the more I've looked for a pattern, I realize that it's when I've gone too long without eating. In fact I now notice that as soon as I start feeling terribly hungry, to the point where I even feel weak, my toes inevitably cramp! Also I've noticed that they cramp if I've had a little too much wine over the last few days, even when I think I am drinking enough water and have eaten. So note to self: start taking better care of myself. Drink less and stick to consistent healthy eating habits. I hope this helps someone else... Apr 04, 2011 Rating PRESERVATIVES! by: Anonymous I started getting the toe cramps about 2 years ago (now 53). I tried to look for a pattern and what I found is every time I ate the pre-packaged processed chocolate pudding I would get these extreme toe cramps. Attempting to force the toes straight never worked. I had to get out of bed and walk around and they would finally return to normal. Once this started happening I purchased a bottle of potassium and that did help, but they still continued on a lesser fashion. I then changed my milk (drink it every day, so no lack of magnesium etc etc) to ORGANIC (too many hormones/steroids in standard milk) and that cleared the cramps up COMPLETELY (over a year now). Well, I just had (4/4/2011) one of the worst toe turn under cramps ever on my left foot, and I thought back to what I ate today: Canned Blueberry Pie filling I used for a pie I baked. I believe it is the high content preservatives (or something) used in certain PROCESSED FOODS. Also whenever this happens I start eating green vegetables: collards, turnips, broccolli, asparagus because I DO NOT EAT MY VEGETABLES EVERYDAY! (BTW - asparagus puree is known to cure cancer - google it!) When the cramps act up, think back on what you have eaten for the day. I  stopped eating the pre-packaged processed chocolate pudding (love that stuff) and after this bout tonight, I will not be using any canned fruit pie fillings again. Next time those horrible toe cramps visit, reflect back on what you have eaten the last couple days. I still take a potassium pill (99mg) 3 times a week. This is what has worked for me, and it might be worth a try for you. Mar 22, 2011 Rating stupid toe cramps by: Anonymous i go for tonic water, we are lacking minerals, and quenine in the tonic water. seems to help. i never had these so bad till after my chemo treatments. Mar 16, 2011 Rating toe cramps by: Anonymous Hi i did some research and i found that a calcium deficiency may be the cause of my toe cramps. i looked up symptoms of iron deficiency's, and found that muscle cramps were not a symptom of iron deficiency's. so i thought i would look up calcium deficiency's, where i am sensitive to dairy products, and do not take vitamins, also on birth control pill. i found that muscle cramps and spasms were symptoms of a calcium deficiency. so i hope this helps. Feb 28, 2011 Rating Lisa's Cramp.. by: Audrey So pleased Lisa that you were prepared to try the soap by your feet, under the sheet. Did it work? I know it did! Kind Reards Audrey Feb 12, 2011 Rating the painnn!!! by: M@B i'm a 15-yr girl. i've had cramps in my toes and feet ever since i was about 7. i understand why older people sometimes suffer from it but i'm not old!! i get them in the evenings and they can get to point that i cant even walk. i've been close to tears at times. my toes curl up so tight sometimes its hard to straghten them out. i hate bananas so that doesnt help, but i do eat a lot of potataoes which i've been told contain a lot of potassium. i've thought of all kinds of reasons why i get them. anything from the fact i'm sorta flat footed to stress to the idea that i constantly lock my knees(which is my current theory because i do it all the time but i hav yet to pass out because of it). they're on and off. i havnt had any in a while but i kno they'll be back before long. i almost feel handicaped by them. they interfere w/ my life and they hurt...i'm afraid i'll get them while i drive!! that is once i get my liscence. in the past couple of years i think they've gotten steadly worse. i now get cramps in my legs. in these past couple months i've had cramps in my calf muscles that hav woken me up in the middle of the night and those really hurt. how can i go throught life lik this? i'm really wondering if i hav a serious medical condition here. i wish they would just GO AWAYYY!!! i'll try to drink more water and stay hydrated. maybe thats it. Feb 04, 2011 Rating Audry by: Lisa I have been sufferingwith this for years now. i WILL TAKE YOUR SUGGESTION IG PUTTIN SOAP UNDRE THE SHEETS AND SEE HOW IT GOES. iT'S 4;45 NOW AND i HAVE BEEN WOKEN UP AGAIN B THIS.  tHANK YOU AND God Bless You!!!!! Jan 25, 2011 Rating TRY THE SOAP TO STOP CRAMP! by: Anonymous I don't understand why people have not even tried putting soap in the bed under the fitted sheet at the bottom. It is just bog standard soap - you probably have a box of unwanted soap somewhere. Just try it - it costs nothing to try it. Jan 07, 2011 Rating toe cramping by: Anonymous Everyone has brought up valid points about toes cramping and trust me, I experience toes cramping in both feet at the same time.  I have learned to rub Icy Hot on my toes and it helps to relax the toes when cramping. My question is:  Could this be a type of arthritis?  Seems like toe cramping becomes worse as we age, like the cartlidge is breaking down in the joints and the wearing of bone may cause the cramping. There is 100 different types of arthritis. I really am not defficient in calcium; mg or potassium. The toe cramping has gotten worse with age or even while driving, which is a very scary feeling. Dec 30, 2010 Rating I FOUND A CURE!! by: Anonymous I had sevre toe cramps after driving 22 hours and working the morning i got home. ALL I HAD TO DO is stick my fingers between my toes and move my toes in a up and down motion, after 3-5 mins the cramp was gone. Dec 24, 2010 Rating Possible cause for me personally by: Anonymous It's December in Texas and earlier this week was 85 degrees.  Wore capris and flip flops.  First time to wear them in about two months.  The kind I wore have a wide thong that goes between the big toe and the first toe.  Been wearing sneakers since that day.  That night though the first toe cramped and turned the opposite direction the flip flop had forced it and did it again the next night(both times happened soon as I went to bed). Possible that was I hadn't had my toes spread by flip flops in a while??? Dec 05, 2010 Rating JUST TRY IT - PLEASE!!! ***** by: Audrey Smith My partner used to get severe cramps in both feet or both legs simultaneously so I spent hours doing research to find a solution - here it is. PLEASE DON'T LAUGH!! If you put a bar of soap in the bed just under the sheet at the bottom where your feet are, it stops cramp. I wont say that my partner NEVER gets cramp now, but it has gone from every other night to once every few weeks. Don't ask how it works, but when I found it on the Internet there were about fifty people said that it works. I have also told family who have tried it and it has worked for everyone I have told. Please try it, what have you got to loose? I would love you to post back if it works for you. Sleep well :-)Or email me, audreysmith@btopenworld.com Audrey Nov 26, 2010 Rating Horrid toe cramping condition by: Lu Lu Thank god I'm not the only one. I thought I was a freik when my toes on both feet started to twist and turn up and from side to side... all on their own. Scarey not to mention painful. I'm glad to know I'm not the only one out there experiencing this horrid toe cramping condition. Yet to find out what is causing it though. Nov 12, 2010 Rating toe cramps by: terri Hi, I am 43 years old and have been having intermitant toe cramping for about 8 months.  I am at a loss for why this is happening.  I take calcium and vitamin D.  I believe I am getting enough potassium in my diet. I work in an operating room so I cannot always get enough fluids throughout the day. Does anyone have any suggestions. From what I have read already, it doesn't seem like anyone has a fail safe cure. Nov 09, 2010 Rating My toe cramping by: Anonymous I am 65 now and have had toe cramping since I was young.  I've had to pull off the street to jump out and put pressure on my whole foot to stop the cramps on my way to work in the past! Usually they are much worse in the winter when my feet are cold and driving seems to put the right foot in a cramp fairly quickly.  It's been terrible not having a remedy for toe cramping.  One thing I've noticed is carbonated caffeine cokes from a fast food restaurant seems to cause them when I return home and sit down.  Also, in the summer when I'm sitting barefoot with feet on a recliner, they will start cramping.  I found putting on shoes and standing up helps immediately.  Keeping my feet warm in colder weather and in shoes or houseshoes also helps. Oct 07, 2010 Rating toe cramp by: Joan On my right foot the toe next to the big toe started to cramp and move to the right.  It was very weird.  This happend right when I was going to bed.  I had to immediately get up and stand on my feet.  My toe felt better but when I went to lie down again the toe started to move to the right again.  I had to get up and walk and exercise my toes.  I decided to put tight socks to keep my toes together.  My toe stopped cramping and I was able to go to sleep. Sep 23, 2010 Rating CRAMPING OF TOES AND FEET by: PAM Hello... I read all of your comments on what you think we should do for the cramping of toes and feet. Alot of you suggest exercise... picking things up with your toes... etc.   Well, every time I try to do any kind of exercise guess what happens... my feet and toes cramp up.  I drink plenty of water, my calcium and magnisium levels are fine. The only issue that I have that even my doctor says makes sense is that I am anemic. I cannot take iron supplements because my system doesn't absorb vitamins and such... so I go in every 3 weeks for my iron injections. When I don't get in there when I should this starts happening. Therefore, mine anyway, has to do with an iron deficiency.  Just thought I'd throw that out there. Hope it helps even one person. Sep 03, 2010 Rating Preventing Cramps in Toes by: Anonymous Great article! We just posted a blog on how to prevent chronic cramps! Check it out! http://www.fitgirlgear.com/diet/prevent-chronic-cramps-in-your-toes-with-bananas- Aug 17, 2010 Rating cramps toes by: rose Toe cramping can come from other problems like vascular problems--Have a vein check possibly clogged arteries. I keep a bar of hard soap under the fitted sheet on my bed. When I get a cramp at night put your foot  on it --for some reason it goes away immediately also charlie horses. Aug 14, 2010 Rating Toe Cramping by: Anonymous I don't have a clue either,but when it start cramping up you can't even think..lol the pain is horrid..But I will say this I saw someone whose calcium dropped totally man it was not a pretty site..everything cramped up..His hands feet his mouthed was shut he could not talk..Never seen anything like it..Get this when the ambulance came they never saw this before.. Soon as he got to emergency and his doctor saw him and he immediately dosed him with 8 vials of calcium..This was a calcium problem...It was very low..I don't ever want that, so I believe that taking calcium and potassium and vit. C regularly can help regardless. I am not taking any chances folks it was not pretty.. Jun 30, 2010 Rating This is toe cramping. by: Anonymous I am a track athlete, so cramps happen on and off. I'm also allergic to bananas, so eating it wouldn't really help me. When getting a cramp, the best thing to do is to relax and try to massage it out. Cramping is just when your muscles tighten up and forget how to loosen up because it has been strained in some way for a period of time. To prevent cramping, you need to stretch your muscle or massage it every night or morning. Hope this helps. Jun 09, 2010 Rating you need magnesium by: Anonymous Magnesium, epsom salts will take care of it. My daughter is an athlete who used to get severe calf cramps until she started taking a tblsp. or two of citrate of magnesium before a game and an epsom salts bath after. Magnesium relaxes the muscles and cramping stops. My 83 year old mother got leg cramps at night until she started standing in epsom salts water while she showers and taking magnesium throughout the day in proper relationship with calcium since they work together in the body. Jun 05, 2010 Rating Toe Cramps by: Jay I am 56 years old and have experienced miserable toe cramping for the last 2 years.  The only pattern I have noticed is that is much worse after a day or two of little sleep.  I seldom experience a problem after a lazy weekend when I have caught up on my rest. May 13, 2010 Rating toe cramps by: Anonymous I've been getting toe cramps off and on for the past year in the evening after a day of wearing comfortable shoes to my office job.  I'm a 52 year old woman and judging from the other comments, there seems to be a trend.  After years of fluxuating hormones it wouldn't surprise me that they'd cause toe cramps, too....Midol anyone? May 06, 2010 Rating range of toe motion by: Anonymous Recently I've been playing with trying to move toes individually and as a result I've gotten foot cramps, but now I can move my Ring toe on my right foot up and down, so maybe you're flexing a toe you haven't used before. Mar 12, 2010 Rating Annoying and painful cramping... by: Anonymous Hello, Karen! The same thing has been happening to me, ever since I had my oldest who is now 5. I'm not on pills, I hardly work out, I have gain weight in the past 5 years, I did break my right foot, once. I don't know if, it has anything to do with all that I mentioned. BUT...whenever it does happen, I stand UP, push it DOWN, and massage my leg down-wards towards the toes. I have also, heard of eating a spoonful of mustard, since I cant stand that yellow stuff, thats not gonna happen. Best of luck!! Sep 15, 2009 Rating Leg Cramps and Steroids by: Ruth In reference to the person who had the steroid shots and is still having the cramps.  I didn't have cramps until a dermatologist gave me multiple steroid shots for the psorisis I had back in my twenties, I am in my 50's now.  That is when I first started experiencing these cramps and toe jerkings, and I had to have a steroid shot recently for poison ivy that wouldn't clear up.  This has caused the cramps and toes to intensify their cramping again.  I don't think these doctors know what causes it and don't have a test they can give you to find. out. Sep 10, 2009 Rating Severe Cramping of the Toes by: Anonymous These are good ideas, but my cramps have now invaded my legs and thighs, to the point that I cannot sit down.  It takes everything I know to get the pain out.  I have spoke with my doctor, and she suggested eating a banana during the night when they occur, but I am getting to hate bananas.  My toes are actually pulling upwards and my whole foot becomes paralyzed and it takes forever to try and walk it out.  What can cause this?  I have tried exercise, potassium, etc. to no avail. Sep 03, 2009 Rating Toes cramping by: roxane I find that when I wear high heels at work my toes go haywire at night.. watching t.v all of a sudden they freak out going all directions.. And of course my daughters laugh at me...I do eat bananas on a reg basis but that really doens't seem to help. Maybe its the 4 miles I walk everyday too. Oh well life goes on it could be worse! Aug 31, 2009 Rating Toe/ foot cramping by: Student RN Yes this can be caused by a lot of things: dehydration, med. side  effects, Mg and Ca deficiency.... It can also be related to a decrease in Potassium.... I would recommend eating foods high in all three (potassium, calcium, magnesium) such as bananas, cheese, milk etc. for the next couple of days as well as drinking at least 6 glasses of water a day. Aug 10, 2009 Rating EPSOM SALT FOOT MSG AND SOAK by: kim I have sure said some unlady-like words, when my toes start to all go in 15 different directions....all at once.  I, LOL, NOW!!!!  As I sit with both feet submurged in one of those electric, massager-soaker-heater, things and epsom salt to the rim; so to say.  Im feeling like a new woman.....(wink)  For now, anyway.... Aug 04, 2009 Rating possible exercises by: Rula I am 25 and regularly have cramps in my toes. Initially I thought it had something to do with being dehydrated, but after asking around I was told that wasn’t the cause. The cramps are caused by wearing high heels, tight shoes and sometimes a lack of calcium. The worst cramps I got were during a yoga class. There are 2 types of exercises that help. - Try lifting a pencil or marbles with your toes and placing them in a different spot, repeat that exercise a few times. - Lift yourself on the tips of your toes and slowly lower yourself down. Jul 13, 2009 Rating Toe and Foot Cramps by: Anonymous I have had foot and toe cramps since I was a young girl. I am now 43, and they seem to have gotten more frequent and severe as I have aged. I have tried everything, better fitting shoes, keeping hydrated, eating bananas, taking potassium and calcium. Sometimes I think that some of the remedies work, then I am let down later. I just know the best thing I have found over the counter is Hyland's Leg Cramps. They contain quinine which seem to sometimes be the only way I can get relief. Jul 12, 2009 Rating toe cramping by: Gina I have been experiencing toe cramping and researing what to do for it.  I found out that it is caused from lack of calcium and magnisium. Since I take plenty of calcium, I'm assuming I'm lacking the magnisium.  I was very good about taking it because I use to get charlie horses in my calves and then I stopped. Now that my toes are going wacko, I'm going to go buy another bottle of magnisium and see if I can stop the crazy toes and I will let you know. Jun 21, 2009 Rating Toe Cramps by: Anonymous I have found that if I don't drink enough fluids that my toes want to cramp up on me.  At the first sign of them wanting to do so I will immediatley grab a glass of fluid and start drinking trying to hydrate myself immediately. Nov 09, 2008 Rating toe cramps by: Anonymous Hi. I had a double bunionectomy a year ago. However, now I am suffering from neuroma in both feet. Every step I take sends shocks through my toes. My Dr. is giving me cortozone shots in my feet at the base of my toes. I have recieved 3 shots in my left foot and one so far in my right over the past 2 weeks. Since then I have been experiencing severe toe cramping in both feet. They have been so severe at times I wake up unable to relax them. They seem to be in a constant state of pulling and I have to make a concious effort constantly to keep my feet relaxed. I called and talked to a nurse who said she never heard of this happenng from cortizone shots. I see my Dr. on Wednesday and am anxious to see what he says. Anyone ever experience anything like this? Oct 06, 2008 Rating Toe Cramping by: Anonymous Hi Karen, I do not have a remedy for you, but I would like to add that I get the exact same thing happening to me -- mostly my right foot. I am 53 years and this has only been occuring for the last 12 months every couple of months. It certainly has a mind of its own, sometimes disappearing in 10-15min and sometimes lingering on and off for 30min. I do what you do until it just goes. It can happen at any time. the first time I was in the bath. Today it happened again and I was sweeping the garage in my slippers. I was thinking maybe my muscles were shrinking due to a change of life so I try to do stretching of my whole body. I think it helps. May 12, 2008 Rating Remedy for "toe cramping" by: Anonymous I've gotten toe cramping for years.  I find the only quick remedy is to put your foot on a very cold floor or ice pack as soon as possible.  It seems to take the cramp away fast.  It's also a quick fix if you get a "charlie" horse in your leg.  Good luck.....doctor told me it's nothing to worry about. Apr 05, 2008 Rating I would talk to your physician... by: Bart - SII Karen, this doesn't sound like anything to be terribly worried about - perhaps just some muscle cramping. However, it could be a reaction to medications, or there may be other causes. I would give your physician a call and talk to them just to be on the safe side. Muscle cramping can occur from lots of different things - the most common is from dehydration. But they can also be side effects from medications as well as from anesthesia. It probably isn't anything to worry about, but a simple call to your doctor is best just to make sure. Hope this helps Click here to add your own comments Welcome... Home Whats New About Me Ebooks... Solution Series Ebooks Contribute... Ask A Question Tell Your Story ACL Surgery Stories Learn About... Anatomy Prevention Treatment Rehab Common Injuries Fractures Surgeries More From SII Advertise on SII Resources My Secret Donations Privacy Policy Newsletter Signup for your free copy of Flexibility Solutions! Home | Whats New | Newsletter | Privacy Policy | Contact SII Copyright © 2004-2012