
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 19:02:42 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 18 Mar 2012 19:02:42 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.historyofcircumcision.org/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 19:02:42 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Proportion | History of Circumcision Home Books Education Pro and Contra Sexuality proportion The Downside Of Male Circumcision – What Do You Lose When You Face The Knife? Posted by admin on June 15, 2011 The foreskin is a complex organ with a lot of similarities to the eyelid due to its two layer structure. Scientists have now revealed the function and structure of these skin that sheaths the penis after a long and detailed study. The practice of male circumcision has been blown out of proportion. Circumcision is considered to be in vogue and these misconception has received a lot of backing from the medical field. The complete removal of the foreskin ought to be viewed as a male genital mutilation. Many people are yet to realize what they are losing through circumcision. The benefits of circumcision have been trumpeted so much and for many years without giving due consideration to the aftermath of these surgery. Surgery in medical terms is the actual removal of a diseased or unwanted part of the body. But the foreskin is a vital organ just like an appendix is important. The foreskin is a delicate organ designed to offer protection to the penis head from constant abrasion and possible infection. It forms half of all the penile skin and folds itself around the penis. The inside surface of the foreskin is a complexity of a soft mucosa which releases smegma which is a form of antiviral and antibacterial lubricant. These lubricants go a step further and protect the glans for any form of infection and from constant friction and abrasion. Due to the sheathed nature of the glans in a moist environment, sensitivity is retained in its pure form. When it comes to sex the skin fold called the foreskin glides along the shaft of the penis. The movement provides stimulation and lubrication. During circumcision all these functions and benefits are lost. Beware of male circumcision. It robs a man vital elements from his manhood. Circumcision only serves to deny him his natural rights. Male circumcision is a health risk as a recent study shows. The journal of the American Medical Association which published the study shows that circumcision actually puts a man at an awkward health situation. Much as male circumcision alleviates the possibilities of HIV and syphilis infection the health risks are still higher. Circumcised men stand a higher chance of infection from herpes, chlamydia and hepatitis. Whoever announced to the world that male circumcision can save a man from disease infection ought to be prosecuted. It is misleading to tell the public that circumcision is a form of immunization. It makes the public to behave in inappropriate manner with the notion that they are safe. Beware of circumcision because it solves a small problem but creates a bigger one. Circumcised men do not realize what they are losing in terms of sexual pleasure. Male circumcision removes all the erogenous tissue. The foreskin has numerous nerve endings which make sex to be so exciting and pleasurable. The glans peels itself off the top most sensitive skin during the healing process. An uncircumcised man enjoys optimum sexual pleasure with his partner. The foreskin is so erogenous you will regret why you lost it. The gliding of the foreskin along the penile shaft during sex gives a man unprecedented sexual pleasure. It is pleasure that a circumcised man can only dream of hence beware of male circumcision. Tagged american medical association , Circumcised , eyelid , foreskin , function , journal of the american medical association , Knife , layer structure , male circumcision , male genital mutilation , moist environment , penile skin , penis head , proportion , sex , skin , study , surgery , vital elements , vital organ Male Circumcision, What’s The Point Of It Posted by admin on May 31, 2011 Male circumcision is the surgical removal of the foreskin around the head of the penis. While this may seem a taboo practice, there is a large proportion of the population who has had it done. In the US alone, over 60% of the population ends up having circumcisions at some point in their life. While this figure seems high, it was once at a peak of 85% in the 70′s. So what is the foreskin for? Why do males have one? Well, it generally acts as a protection for wear and tear against the sensitive penis glans (head). It also protects the glans from any irritation for babies and it also contains erogenous tissue and lubrication which contributes to sexual arousal. So with all these benefits, why is it people remove it? Well the main cause is due to medical reasons. In birth, babies are born with naturally tight foreskins and over the years of puberty it is meant to loosen out so by the age of 18, it can be fully retractable. In some cases, the foreskin can remain too tight to pull back. The medical term for this is Phimosis. While there are other surgical operations to cure this including stretching the foreskin and reshaping of the prepuce to make it wide, sometimes circumcision is the only effective method. If not, it can prove near impossible to wash the glans, resulting in an infection called Balantis. This normally can be identified by red tender areas on the glans and can cause irritation, tenderness, impotence and swelling. Other conditions are that it can become so tight that it makes it painful and sometimes impossible to urinate or have sex. Yet there are actual benefits to have a circumcision. Men who have been circumcised tend to contract fewer urinary tract infections. It also offers some defense against sexual transmitted diseases as it’s easier to wash the bacteria away before it does any damage. While only very small, there is evidence that it can reduce the risk of penile cancer, which on its own is incredibly rare. It is also possible to have the foreskin reconstructed. While it may seem a bit odd to have the foreskin removed, and then reconstructed, some males who may have had it either removed at birth, or for medical reasons, want it back. There are surgical and non-surgical methods for doing this. The surgical method involves taking skin from either the penis or another part of your body, and grafting it onto the glans. Yet people rarely go for the surgical reconstruction, as it can prove to be painful and complications can occur. This is why people normally choose the non-surgical option. This involves stretching what is left of the foreskin with either weights or a traction device. This causes the foreskin to grow as its having to create new cells to fill in the gaps. However, in both cases it is impossible to completely restore the foreskin. There are nerve endings and blood vessels that contribute to sexual feelings which can never fully be replaced, although partial replacement is doable. Tagged arousal , birth , birth babies , cause , circumcisions , figure , foreskin , foreskins , life , male circumcision , peak , penis glans , prepuce , proportion , removal , sensitive penis , sexual transmitted diseases , tender areas , tissue , urinary tract infections Recent Posts Want to Have White Teeth? Here is the Solutions X4 Enlargment with Hybrid Support System Reducing Your Body Weight through Surgical Treatment in Houston The Importance of Choosing the Best Laser Treatment TSA Full Body Scanners Can See Circumcisions Small Business Financing Suits for You “Foreskin on the Forehead : The Latest in Beauty” UK Headline: Should All Boys Be Circumcised? Pro-Circ Doc to Head Centers for Disease Control Docs Who Retract Foreskins Are Child Abusers? Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Co