Connection: Close

How Long Does Alcohol Withdrawal Last LoveToKnow » Health & Fitness » Recovery » Alcoholism Recovery » How Long Does Alcohol Withdrawal Last How Long Does Alcohol Withdrawal Last Learn about drunk driving prevention... By Tamsen Butler How long does alcohol withdrawal last? The answer depends on several factors, especially how long the person has used alcohol and to what extent the person had developed a chemical dependency upon this particular drug. The Stages of Alcohol Withdrawal A casual drinker who decides to never have another alcoholic drink will probably never experience any withdrawal symptoms whatsoever from ceasing drinking. Withdrawal symptoms can profoundly affect the people who have developed a physical dependency on alcohol. For someone who has a serious alcohol dependency, detoxification can become a potentially fatal situation if withdrawal is attempted without medical assistance. Alcohol withdrawal occurs in stages. These stages depend on the level of dependency that has been reached by the person as well as other factors. Keep in mind that every person has varying tolerances as well as varying physical reactions, but there is a general timeline for how long the stages of alcohol withdrawal will last. How Long Does Alcohol Withdrawal Last for Serious Drinkers? Withdrawal is much more serious for people who have been drinking significant amounts of alcohol for a very long time. People who fall into this category are at an increased risk for not only encountering significant withdrawal symptoms but also experiencing withdrawals that can be life threatening. How long does alcohol withdrawal last for someone in this category? The withdrawal can begin anywhere from a few hours from the last drink all the way into the span of months, although the withdrawal symptoms are not consistently severe throughout the entire span of time. How long the withdrawal lasts varies from one person to another. Serious drinkers should seek to withdraw from alcohol with the aid of medical professionals. Preferably, severe alcoholics should enter into a rehabilitation facility in order to conduct alcohol withdrawal under close supervision. There are medications and behavioral therapies that may be able to help people in this situation, although withdrawal symptoms for people with a significant dependency on alcohol are not generally easy to endure. People with a profound dependency on alcohol may encounter a symptom of withdrawal called delirium tremens, also referred to as the DTs. Delirium tremens are characterized by visual hallucinations and bodily tremors. They may also include physiological changes including high blood pressure or full-blown seizures. This characteristic of alcohol withdrawal does not occur with everyone, but it can be quite severe. The general timeline of the DTs is anywhere from one day to a week, although this timeline varies from one person to another. General Alcohol Withdrawals Not everyone who encounters alcohol withdrawal is a severe alcoholic . People who have a mild dependency on alcohol or who have not been drinking for a long period of time will probably not encounter the same serious withdrawal symptoms as people with a serious alcohol problem. Alcohol withdrawal symptoms for people who are not profoundly dependent upon alcohol generally include: Shaking Upset stomach Headache A general feeling of unease Most people going through alcohol withdrawal will find that these symptoms all subside exponentially as the body adjusts to functioning without alcohol. Most people also discover that while the intense urge to have a drink does waver a little as the days go by, there may never be a time when they do not think about having a drink. Medical Supervision Even when a person does not have a significant dependency on alcohol, it is important to seek out medical assistance when attempting to cease alcohol consumption. The medical intervention may be as simple as a consultation with a doctor or as intensive as an inpatient program designed to assist people with severe alcohol dependencies. The first few days of alcohol withdrawal are crucial for eventual success. They are also important because this can be a very dangerous time for people who have spent many years consuming a great deal of alcohol. Related Topics Heroin Use Pictures How Long Does Nicotine Withdrawal Last Alcohol Withdrawal Symptoms CIWA Scale for Alcoholism How Long Will Alcohol Stay in Your System Signs That Recovery Is Working Alcoholism Recovery Health & Fitness Browse Recovery Categories Addiction and Recovery Interviews Addiction Slideshows Alcohol Addiction Alcoholism Recovery Alcoholism Resources Depression Drug Addiction Drug Addiction Recovery Eating Disorders Lying Addiction Other Addictions Smoking Recovery Slideshows Slogans Against Drug Abuse Treatments for Depression LoveToKnow Expert Interview Body Dysmorphic Disorder: Interview with Scott Granet, LCSW In this exclusive LoveToKnow interview, Licensed Clinical Social Worker Scott Granet shares his expertise about this disorder, which is characterized by a person focusing on his or her perceived physical flaws. New in Recovery Body Dysmorphic Disorder: Interview with Scott Granet, LCSW Cutting Body Dysmorphic Disorder Adolescent Chemical Dependency Preventing Addiction: Interview with Dr. Katey Baruth Follow Us Home Beauty & Style Entertainment & Hobbies Health & Fitness Home, Garden & Events Internet & Technology Money & Business Parenting 