<1 fish meal/month. Total Death Rate 
		Was Also Lower In Those Who Ate Fish. Thrombosis, or the 
		tendency to form blood clots, is a major complication of coronary atherosclerosis that can lead to heart attacks. atherosclerosis T achycardia The omega-3 fatty 
		acids from fish oil have powerful antithrombotic actions. EPA inhibits 
		the synthesis of thromboxane A2 from arachidonic acid in platelets. This 
		prostaglandin causes platelet aggregation and vasoconstriction. As a result, fish 
		oil ingestion by humans increases the bleeding time and decreases the 
		stickiness of the platelets for aggregation to glass beads. In addition, 
		the administration of fish oil enhances the production of prostacyclin, 
		a prostaglandin that produces vasodilation and less sticky platelets. Reduced 
		Atherosclerosis The EPA and DHA 
		contained in fish oil fed to experimental animals actually inhibited 
		development of atherosclerosis . There is evidence in both pigs and 
		monkeys that dietary fish oil prevents atherosclerosis by actions other 
		than reducing plasma cholesterol concentrations. atherosclerosis Atherosclerotic 
		plaque formation may also be lessened by the reduction in growth factors 
		after fish-oil consumption. Not only is platelet-derived growth factor 
		diminished by fish oil consumption, but its messenger RNA is reduced. 
		Because atherosclerosis begins with cellular proliferation in response 
		to the influx of cholesterol-rich lipoproteins, the inhibition of this 
		proliferation would greatly reduce the growth of the atherosclerotic 
		plaque. Reduced 
		Cholesterol Levels The pronounced 
		effect of fish oil on high blood fats or elevated cholesterol levels is 
		especially well documented and is supported by results of precise 
		dietary studies in which the effects of a diet rich in salmon oil were 
		compared with those of a vegetable oil and a diet high in saturated fat. Fish oil in 
		particular was shown to lower plasma cholesterol and triglyceride 
		concentrations. Apolipoprotein B production is reduced by consumption of 
		fish oil in comparison with vegetable oils such as safflower or olive 
		oil. Omega-3 Fatty 
		Acids Essential Components Of Cell Membranes In Infancy There are 2 
		critical periods for the acquisition of these essential omega-3 fatty 
		acids: during fetal development and after birth until the biochemical 
		development in the brain and retina is completed. As already noted, 
		the omega-3 fatty acid DHA is an important constituent of the cell 
		membrane of these neural structures. Omega-3 fatty acid 
		deficiency is manifested in both the blood and in tissue biochemistry. 
		Of note is a strikingly low concentration of DHA, which may fall to as 
		much as one-fifth of the normal amount. In addition, the 
		body attempts to replace the deficient DHA with another highly 
		polyunsaturated fatty acid of the omega-6 series. In rhesus monkeys, 
		omega-3 fatty acid -- deficient diets fed to pregnant animals and then 
		continued after birth induce profound functional changes such as reduced 
		vision, abnormal electroretinograms, impaired visual evoked potential, 
		more stereotypic behavior (e.g., pacing), and, perhaps, disturbances of 
		cognition. Some of these 
		findings have been replicated in infants fed formulas deficient in 
		omega-3 fatty acids. Most studies of premature infants have shown visual 
		impairment and abnormal electroretinograms. A recent study in 
		full-term infants, in which a standard infant formula was compared with 
		human milk and with formulas enriched with DHA, provided unequivocal 
		evidence of considerable differences in visual evoked potential. In all of the human 
		studies, the biochemical evidence in plasma, red blood cells, and, 
		occasionally, in tissues from autopsied infants has substantiated the 
		omega-3 fatty acid deficiency state. The lower concentrations of DHA in 
		plasma and erythrocytes are mirrored by lower concentrations in the 
		brain and retina. Formula-fed infants have lower concentrations of brain 
		DHA than do infants fed human milk. They also have lower intelligence 
		quotients. During pregnancy, 
		both maternal stores and dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids are of 
		importance in insuring that the baby has adequate amounts of omega-3 
		fatty acids at the time of birth. All the 
		polyunsaturated fatty acids, including DHA, are transferred across the 
		placenta into fetal blood. In addition, EPA and DHA in maternal adipose 
		tissue can be mobilized as free fatty acids bound to albumin and be made 
		available to the developing fetus via placenta transport. Several studies in 
		monkeys have indicated that when the maternal diet is deficient in 
		omega-3 fatty acids, the infant at birth is likewise deficient as 
		evidenced by low DHA concentrations in their plasma and red blood cells. In humans, it was 
		shown that the administration of fish oil or sardines to pregnant women 
		led to higher DHA concentrations in both maternal plasma and red blood 
		cells and in cord blood plasma and red blood cells at the time of birth. Once membrane 
		phospholipids have adequate concentrations of DHA, there is an avid 
		retention of these fatty acids in the brain and the retina, even though 
		the diet may subsequently be deficient. Several studies illustrate 
		clearly the effects of omega-3 deficiency in both animals and humans. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 
		Vol. 71, No. 1, 171S-175S, January 2000 New Findings About 
		Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Depression By Alan C. 
		Logan, ND, FRSH Omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsaturated 
		fatty acids that are considered essential because they cannot be 
		synthesized by the human body. Dietary sources of omega-3 fatty acids 
		include plants (particularly flax, canola, walnuts and hemp) and fish 
		(particularly ocean fish such as sardines, anchovies, salmon and 
		mackerel). Plants contain the parent omega-3, alpha-linolenic acid 
		(ALA), which can be converted into eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) and 
		docosahexanoic acid (DHA).1 Dietary fish and fish oil supplements 
		are a direct source of EPA and DHA. The influence of ALA, EPA and DHA in 
		human health has been the subject of intense research over the last 
		three decades. Although best known for cardiovascular benefits, new 
		findings indicate that the influence of omega-3 fatty acids in mental 
		health, particularly EPA, may currently be underestimated. 
		Epidemiological, experimental and new clinical studies have all shown a 
		strong connection between omega-3 fatty acids, or a lack thereof, and 
		major depression . Depression These exciting new findings are not 
		entirely surprising when one considers that the brain itself is 60 
		percent fat and that one-third of all fatty acids are of the 
		polyunsaturated variety.2,3 As discussed below, the current research 
		highlights the critical role of these fatty acids in the central nervous 
		system (CNS). Omega-3 Intake Declines, Depression 
		Rates Climb There has been a significant drop-off 
		in omega-3 fatty acid intake within Western countries over the last 
		century. The opposite can be said of omega-6 intake. Although essential, 
		omega-6-rich oils are found in abundance in the North American food 
		supply. Currently these omega-6 oils (corn, safflower, sunflower, 
		cottonseed, sesame) are outnumbering omega-3 fatty acids by a ratio of 
		up to 20:1.4,5 This ratio is a long way off the close 
		to 1:1 omega-6 to omega-3 ratio as recommended by the international 
		panel of essential fatty acid experts in the Journal of the American 
		College of Nutrition.6 The average daily intake of EPA/DHA combined is 
		130mg in North America, 520mg short of published recommendations and 
		870mg short of the 1000mg recommended by the American Heart Association 
		in cases of heart disease.1 In direct contrast to the depletion of 
		omega-3 fatty acids from the Western food supply, the rates of depression have dramatically increased in Western countries. In 
		addition, depression is now occurring more commonly in younger persons. 
		The average age of onset of depression has continued to dip over the 
		last 100 years. Scientists investigating the change in rates of depression have made it clear that these findings cannot be explained 
		away by changes in attitudes of health professionals or society, 
		diagnostic criteria, reporting bias, institutional or other 
		artifacts.7,8 Perhaps the inadequate omega-3 intake, the major 
		deviations in fatty acids ratios and the quarter-century-old message 
		that all fat is unhealthy has had an untold influence on rates of depression . Fish Consumption and Depression There have been a number of studies 
		that have examined national and international fish consumption data and 
		compared them to rates of depression . Dr. Joseph Hibbeln of the National 
		Institutes of Health is a pioneer in this area. He, and his group, have 
		shown that higher national consumption of fish for a nation equals lower 
		rates of depression versus countries consuming the least amount of 
		fish.9 He has also shown that higher fish consumption is correlated with 
		lower risk of postpartum depression 10 and seasonal affective disorder.11 Depression Other researchers have shown that even 
		within a nation, fish consumption is associated with lower risk of depression and higher mental health status.12,13 Finally, researches are 
		now observing increasing rates of depression in regions of the world 
		that are moving away from traditional omega-3-rich diets to typical 
		Western foods.14 Laboratory Tests in Depression The epidemiological studies clearly 
		suggest that adequate omega-3 fatty acids may be an important protective 
		factor in depression . Correlation, however, does not prove causation. To 
		add to the strength of the epidemiological studies, scientists have 
		examined the levels of omega-3 fatty acids in the blood cells and fat 
		storage cells of those with major depression . Four studies have shown that those with depression do indeed have lower levels of omega-3 fatty acids in the 
		blood.15-18 One of the studies showed that the lower the level of EPA, 
		the more severe the clinical depression .15 In addition, a recent study 
		showed that the patients with depression have 35 percent less DHA in fat 
		storage cells versus healthy controls.19 Experimental Studies Over the last decade, neuroscientists 
		have been examining the consequences of omega-3 deficiencies in the 
		central nervous system. Alterations in serotonin and dopamine levels, as 
		well as the functioning of these two important neurotransmitters is 
		evident in an omega-3 deficiency. The changes observed in omega-3 
		deficiency in animals is strikingly similar to that found in autopsy 
		studies of human depression .20 In addition to changing serotonin and 
		dopamine levels and functioning, omega-3 deficiencies are known to 
		compromise the blood-brain barrier, which normally protects the brain 
		from unwanted matter gaining access.21 Omega-3 deficiency can also 
		decrease normal blood flow to the brain,22,23 an interesting finding 
		given the studies which show that patients with depression have 
		compromised blood flow to a number of brain regions.24,25 Finally, 
		omega-3 deficiency also causes a 35 percent reduction in brain phosphatidylserine (PS) levels.26 This is also of relevance when 
		considering that PS has documented antidepressant activity in 
		humans.27,28 Mechanisms of EPA/DHA Regulation of 
		Mood DHA is found in high levels in the 
		cells of the central nervous system (neurons); here it acts as a form of 
		scaffolding for structural support.29 When omega-3 intake is inadequate, 
		the nerve cell becomes stiff as cholesterol and omega-6 fatty acids are 
		substituted for omega-3.30 When a nerve cell becomes rigid, proper 
		neurotransmission from cell to cell and within cells will be 
		compromised.31 While DHA provides structure and helps 
		to ensure normal neurotransmission, EPA may be more important in the 
		signaling within nerve cells.32 Normalizing communications within nerve 
		cells has been suggested to be an important factor in alleviating 
		depressive symptoms.33 In addition, EPA can lower the levels of two 
		important immune chemicals, tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFa) and 
		interleukin 1 beta (IL-1ß), as well as prostaglandin E2.34 All three of these chemicals are 
		elevated in depression .35-38 In fact, higher levels of TNFa and IL-1ß 
		are associated with severity of depression.39 Finally, EPA has been 
		hypothesized to increase brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF), which 
		is known to be lower in depressed patients.20 BDNF is neuroprotective, 
		enhances neurotransmission, has antidepressant activity and supports 
		normal brain structure. BDNF may prevent the death of nerve cells in depression . Anxiety Depression Clinical Studies There have been some published case 
		reports indicating that flaxseed oil may be helpful in cases of bipolar depression and the anxiety disorder agoraphobia.40 The first controlled 
		clinical trial indicating that omega-3 fatty acids may be of benefit in depression was published in 1999. In this case, 9:6 g of EPA/DHA versus 
		placebo led to longer periods of remission and improvement in depressive 
		symptoms in those with bipolar depression .41 Some researchers theorize that such 
		high doses of EPA/DHA may not be necessary and that low levels of pure 
		EPA may be of benefit.32 In a study published in the American Journal of 
		Psychiatry, researchers showed that just 2g of pure EPA could improve 
		the symptoms of treatment-resistant depression . The researchers found 
		that the EPA (versus placebo), when added to an ineffective 
		antidepressant for one month, significantly improved depressive 
		symptoms.42 A larger study published in Archives of 
		General Psychiatry replicated these findings, however, this time various 
		doses of EPA were examined. Those on ineffective antidepressants were 
		given 1g, 2g or 4g of pure EPA or a placebo in addition to the 
		medication. Interestingly, the 1g daily dose of EPA led to the most 
		significant improvements over the three-month study; it appeared that 
		less was more. There were significant improvements in depressive 
		symptoms, sleep, anxiety, lassitude, libido and thoughts of suicide.43 Researchers from Taiwan Medical 
		University published a recent study in which they found that a 4.4g EPA 
		and 2.2g DHA mix could alleviate depression versus placebo in those with 
		treatment-resistant depression . This was a two-month study involving 
		patients who were on antidepressants that were not working. As with the 
		other omega-3 studies discussed, the fish oil was well tolerated and no 
		adverse events were reported.44 There is also evidence that omega-3 
		oils may be of benefit in treating depressive symptoms outside of major 
		depressive disorder. Canadian researchers showed that Antarctic krill 
		oil (400mg EPA, 240mg DHA) could improve depressive symptoms associated 
		with premenstrual syndrome.45 Harvard researchers have also shown that 
		just 1g of pure EPA is beneficial in the treatment of borderline 
		personality disorder. This personality disorder, which is particularly 
		difficult to treat, is characterized by both depressive and aggressive 
		symptoms. This was a two-month placebo-controlled study and the results 
		showed that EPA has a mood-regulating effect, improving both depression and aggression versus placebo.46 Anxiety Depression To date, with one exception, all 
		studies conducted on omega-3 fatty acids and mood have had a positive 
		outcome. The singular negative study examined pure DHA in patients with depression . The results in the case showed that DHA alone was no better 
		than placebo in alleviating depressive symptoms.47 Conclusion Although an influence of EPA and DHA on 
		brain physiology and structure is apparent, the precise mechanisms 
		whereby omega-3 fatty acids may alleviate depression remain unknown. The 
		results of the clinical trials reinforce the epidemiological and 
		experimental studies, underscoring the importance of adequate omega-3 
		intake in those with depression . The long-term studies of fish oil 
		supplements in the area of cardiovascular health, some spanning 
		three-plus years, have shown that they are safe and well tolerated.48,49 
		Patients with depression or depressive symptoms should discuss omega-3 
		fatty acids with their health care providers. While scientists continue 
		to unravel the neuropsychological influences of omega-3 fatty acids, it 
		should be recognized that they are not a substitute for appropriate 
		mental health evaluation and care. Alan C. Logan is a naturopathic 
		physician licensed in Connecticut. Valedictorian of the Canadian College 
		of Naturopathic Medicine, class of 2001, his recent medline-indexed 
		article "Neurobehavioral Aspects of Omega-3 Fatty Acids: Possible 
		Mechanisms and Therapeutic Value in Major Depression " is available to 
		medical professionals by writing to Dr. Logan at aclnd@cfs-fm.org . References: Holub BJ. Clinical Nutrition: 4. Omega-3 fatty acids 
			in cardiovascular care. CMAJ 2002; 166: 608-15. Bourre JM, Dumont O, Piciotti M, Clement M, et al. 
			Essentiality of n-3 fatty acids for brain structure and function. 
			World Rev Nutr Diet 1991; 66: 103-17. Yehyda S, Rabinovitz S, Mostofsky DI. Essential fatty 
			acids are mediators of brain biochemistry and cognitive functions. J 
			Neurosci Res 1999; 56: 565-70. Simopoulos AP. Evolutionary aspects of diet and 
			essential fatty acids. World Rev Nutr Diet 2001; 88: 18-27. Simopoulos AP. Overview of the evolutionary aspects of 
			n-3 fatty acids in the diet. World Rev Nutr Diet 1998; 83: 1-11. Simopoulos AP, Leaf A, Salem N. Workshop on the 
			essentiality of and recommended dietary intakes for omega-6 and 
			omega-3 fatty acids. J Am Coll Nutr 1999; 18: 487-9. Klerman GL. The current age of youthful melancholia. 
			Evidence for increase in depression among adolescents and young 
			adults. Br J Psychiatry 1998; 152: 4-14. Depression Klerman GL, Weissman MM. Increasing rates of depression . JAMA 1989; 261: 2229-35. Hibbeln JR. Fish consumption and major depression . 
			Lancet 1998; 351: 1213. Hibbeln JR. Seafood consumption, the DHA content of 
			mothers milk and prevalence rates of postpartum depression : a 
			cross-national, ecological analysis. J Affect Disord 2002; 69: 
			15-29. Cott J, Hibbeln JR. Lack of seasonal mood change in 
			Icelanders. Am J Psychiatry 2001;158:328. Tanskanen A, Hibbeln JR, Hintikka J, Haatainen K, 
			Honkalampi K, Viinamaki H. Fish consumption, depression , and suicidality in a general population. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2001; 58: 
			512-513. Silvers KM, Scott KM. Fish consumption and self 
			reported physical and mental health status. Public Health Nutr 2002; 
			5: 427-31. McGrath-Hanna NK, Greene DM, Tavernier RJ, Bult-Ito A. 
			Diet and mental health status in the Arctic: is diet an important 
			risk factor for mental health in circumpolar peoples? Int J 
			Circumpolar Health 2003;62:228-41. Adams PB, Lawson S, Sanigorski A, Sinclair AJ. 
			Arachidonic acid to eicosapentanoic acid ratio in blood correlates 
			positively with clinical symptoms of depression . Lipids 1996; 31: 
			S157-S161. Peet M, Murphy B, Shay J, Horrobin D. Depletion of 
			omega-3 fatty acid levels in red blood cell membranes of depressive 
			patients. Biol Psychiatry 1998; 43: 315-19. Maes M, Christophe A, Delanghe J, Altamura C, Neels H, 
			Meltzer HY. Lowered n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in the serum 
			phospholipids and cholesterol esters of depressed patients. 
			Psychiatry Res 1999; 85: 275-291. Tiemeier H, van Tuijl HR, Hofman A, et al. Plasma 
			fatty acid composition and depression are associated in the elderly: 
			the Rotterdam study. Am J Clin Nutr 2003;78:40-46. Mamalakis G, Tornaritis M, Kafatos A. Depression and 
			adipose essential polyunsaturated fatty acids. Prostaglandins Leukot 
			Essent Fatty Acids 2002; 67: 311-18. Logan AC. Neurobehavioral aspects of omega-3 fatty 
			acids:possible mechanisms and therapeutic value in major depression . Altern Med Rev 2003;8:410-425. Ziylan ZY, Bernard GC, LeFamconnier JM, Durand GA, 
			Bourre JM. Effect of dietary n-3 fatty acid deficiency on 
			blood-to-brain transfer of sucrose, alpha-aminoisobutyrie acid and 
			phenylalamine in the rat. Neurosci Lett 1992; 137: 9-13. Ito H, Kawashima R, Awata S, Ono S, et al. 
			Hypoperfusion in the limbic system and prefrontal cortex in depression : SPECT with anatomic standardization technique. J Nucl 
			Med 1996; 37: 410-4. Kimbrell TA, Ketter TA, George MS, Little JT, et al. 
			Regional cerebral glucose utilization in patients with a range of 
			severities in unipolar depression . Biol Psychiatry 2002; 51: 237-52. Ellis EF, Police RJ, Dodson LY, McKinney JS, Holt SA. 
			Effect of dietary n-3 fatty acids on cerebral microcirculation. Am J 
			Physiol 1992; 262: H1379-H1386. de Wilde MC, Farkas E, Gerritis M, Kiliaan AJ, Luiten 
			PGM. The effect of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid-rich diets on 
			cognitive and cerebrovascular parameters in chronic cerebral 
			hypoperfusion. Bran Res 2002; 947: 166-73. Zimmer L, Vancassel S, Cantagrel S, Breton, et al. The 
			dopamine mesocorticolimbic pathway is affected by deficiency in n-3 
			polyunsaturated fatty acids. Am J Clin Nutr 2002; 75: 662-7. Brambilla F, Maggioni M. Blood levels of cytokines in 
			elderly patients with major depressive disorder. Acta Psychiatr 
			Scand 1998; 97: 309-13. Maggioni M, Picotti GB, Bondiolotti GP, Panerai A, 
			Cenacchi T, Nobile P, Brambilla F. Effects of phosphatidylserine 
			therapy in geriatric patients with depressive disorders. Acta 
			Psychiatr Scand 1990; 81: 265-70. Bourre JM, Bonneil M, Clement M, Dumont O, et al. 
			Function of dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids in the nervous 
			system. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids 1993; 48: 5-15. Yehuda S, Rabinovitz S, Mostofsky DI. Modulation of 
			learning and neuronal membrane composition in the rat by essential 
			fatty acid preparation: time course analysis. Neurochem Res 1998; 
			23: 627-34. Heron DS, Shinitzky M, Hershkowitz M, Samuel D. Lipid 
			fluidity markedly modulates the binding of serotonin to mouse brain 
			membranes. Proc Natl Acad Sci 1980; 77: 7463-67. Horrobin DF. A new category of psychotropic drugs: 
			neuroactive lipids as exemplified by ethyl eicosapentaenoate (E-E). 
			Prog Drug Res 2002;59:171-99. Stoll AL, Locke CA, Marangell LB, Severus WE. Omega-3 
			fatty acids and bipolar disorder: a review. Prostaglandins Leukot 
			Essent Fatty Acids 1999; 60: 329-37. James MJ, Cleland LG. Dietary n-3 fatty acids and 
			therapy for rheumatoid arthritis . Semin Arthritis Rheum 
			1997;27:85-97. Lieb J, Karmali R, Horrobin D. Elevated levels of 
			prostaglandin E2 and thromboxane B2 in depression . Prostaglandins 
			Leukot Med 1983; 10: 361-7. Ohishi K, Ueno R, Nishino S, Sakai T, Hayaishi O. 
			Increased level of salivary prostaglandins in patients with major depression . Biol Psychiatry 1988; 23: 326-34. Nishino S, Ueno R, Ohishi K, Sakai T, Hayaishi O. 
			Salivary prostaglandin concentrations: possible state indicators for 
			major depression . Am J Psychiatry 1989; 146: 365-8. Maes M, Smith RS. Fatty acids, cytokines, and major depression . Biol Psychiatry 1998;43:313-14. Shimizu E, Hashimoto K, Okamura N, et al. Alterations 
			of serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in 
			depressed patients with or without antidepressants. Biol Psychiatry 
			2003;54:70-75. Rudin DO. The major psychoses and neuroses as omega-3 
			essential fatty acid deficiency syndrome: substrate pellagra. Biol 
			Psychiatry 1981; 16: 837-850. Stoll AL, Severus E, Freeman MP, Rueter S, et al. 
			Omega-3 fatty acids in bipolar disorder. A preliminary double-blind, 
			placebo-controlled trial. Arch Gen Psychiatry 1999; 56: 407-12. Nemets B, Stahl Z, Belmaker RH. Addition of omega-3 
			fatty acid to maintenance medication treatment for recurrent 
			unipolar depressive disorder. Am J Psychiatry 2002; 159: 477-9. Peet M, Horrobin DF. A dose-ranging study of the 
			effects of ethyl-eicosapentaenoate in patients with ongoing depression despite adequate treatment with standard drugs. Arch Gen 
			Psychiatry 2002; 59: 913-19. Su KP, Huang SY, Chiu CC, Shen WW. Omega-3 fatty acids 
			in major depressive disorder. A preliminary double-blind, placebo 
			controlled trial. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol 2003;13:267-71. Sampalis F, Bunea R, Pelland MF, et al. Evaluation of 
			the effects of Neptune krill oil on the management of premenstrual 
			syndrome and dysmenorrheal. Altern Med Rev 2003;8:171-79. Zanarini MC, Frankenburg FR. Omega-3 fatty acid 
			treatment of women with borderline personality disorder: a 
			double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study. Am J Psychiatry 2003; 
			160: 167-69. Marangell LB, Martinez JM, Zboyan HA, et al. A 
			double-blind, placebo-controled study of the omega-3 fatty acid 
			docosahexaenoic acid in the treatment of major depression . Am J 
			Psychiatry 2003;160:996-98. Marchioli R, Schweiger C, Tavazzi L, Valagussa F. 
			Efficacy of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids after myocardial 
			infarction: results of GISSI-prevenzione trial. Gruppo Italiano per 
			lo studio della sopravvivenza nell’infarto miocardio. Lipids 2001; 
			36 Suppl: S119-26. Marchioli R, Barzi 
		F, Bomba E, Chieffo C, et al. Early protection against sudden death by 
		n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids after myocardial infarction: time course 
		analysis of the results of the Gruppo Italiano per lo studio della 
		sopravvivenza nell’infarto myocardio (GISSI) -- prevenzione. Circulation 
		2002; 105: 1897-903. Related Site: cancer Cervical 
							cancer Ovarian 
							cancer Uterine 
							cancer Breast 
							cancer Treatments Ayurvedic Cure Ozone Oxygen 
					Therapy Disease 
					& Conditions Colon 
					Hydrotherapy Diet Programs Education Programs Parasites Programs Detoxification Program Liver Cleansing Liver Flush Kidney 
					Cleansing Health Tours Program Mercury Detoxification Weight 
					Loss Program Vitamins Treatments Programs: Anti - aging Program 5 Days Beauty and Weight Loss Program 7 Days Cancer 
				Prevention & Complementary Program Diabetes 
				Prevention & Complementary Program Heart 
				Prevention & Complementary Program Detoxification Program 5 Days Detoxification Program 7 Days Detoxification Progra m 
				1 Day Health Progra m  
				1 Day Health 
					Massage Program Men Health Program 5 Days Mercury
				Detoxification Program with Dental Clinic Single Consultation and Treatments Dr. Eddy's 
		Clinic Integrated Medicine - Web Journal Articles Forum - Forum Integrated Medicine - Ayurvedic Forum Ayurvedic Disease Men Health Treatment Aging Vaccination Women Health Integrated Medicine Submit 
				a Article Integrated Medicine combines Western 
							medicine with 
							Complementary and Alternative medicine 
							and mind-body-spirit approaches to health and 
							healing. Live 
						Blood Analysis Two drops 
						of blood under a specialized high powered ultra-dark 
						field microscope, reveals anomalies in the blood. The unique 
						tool for prevention. Ozone-Oxygen-Therapy is recognized by most as 
						the most powerful and versatile therapy known in 
						alternative health because it plays a vital role in 
						maintaining the well-being of the body. Check it 
						out why. Contact the Doctor contact the doctor Disclaimer This information is 
						provided for general medical education purposes only and 
						is not meant to substitute for the independent medical 
						judgment of a physician relative to diagnostic and 
						treatment options of a specific patient's medical 
						condition. In no event will The DrEddyClinic.com be liable for any 
						decision made or action taken in reliance upon the 
						information provided through this web site. DrEddyClinic.com Chiang Mai 50230, Thailand Phone. +66 -53-436284 Fax. +66-53-436284 Mobile. 098505066 email contact contact to the Integrated - Medical -Clinic | Terms and Conditions | | Privacy |
		Copyright© 200