
HTTP/1.0 200 Ok
Date: Thu, 1-Mar-2012 21:59:08 GMT
Server: ezot/3
Connection: close
Content-type: text/html

Acupuncture site map contact Home About Fox Valley Wellness How to find us Medical Staff Contact Our Services Resources/Accomodations Links Payment Policy Privacy Notice FAQ Testimonials In The News NEW CLIENT FORM Our Mission Statement "The Mission of Fox Valley Wellness is to facilitate a person's ability to reach a higher level of health and to promote wellness by identifying causes through mind, body and soul." “The real winners in life are the people who look at every situation with an expectation that they can make it work or make it better.” Barbara Pletcher, author Telephone Hours: 8 a.m-5:00 p.m. Please note: Fox Valley Wellness Center/Midwest Hyperbarics will be closed on the following days in 2012: Memorial Day, May 28th July 4th Labor Day, September 3rd Thanksgiving, November 22nd Christmas, December 25th Acupuncture What is acupuncture? Acupuncture is an ancient form of medicine used to promote natural healing and improve function. It has been used in China for over 2,000 years and was introduced to the US in the early 1970's shortly after President Richard Nixon's historic visit to China. Acupuncture involves the insertion of very fine needles into the body at specific locations called acupuncture points. The ancient Chinese have defined the specific location of these points. They have also identified the exact depth and angle in which the needle should be inserted. Once in place, the needles may be gently manipulated by twisting, shaking, or lifting and thrusting to achieve the desired result. A modern addition to acupuncture is the use of electrical stimulation on the needles. This may be used at times to enhance the effectiveness in treating certain conditions. What conditions can acupuncture treat? Acupuncture is frequently associated with pain control. But when applied by a skilled practitioner, acupuncture can be used alone or in combination with other therapies to treat a wide variety of conditions. Acupuncture is one of the central elements of Traditional Chinese Medicine, the oldest continually practiced form of professional medicine in the history of the world! This form of medicine is very holistic and is used to: promote health and well-being prevent illness treat various medical disorders The National Institutes of Health (NIH) says : "Acupuncture is clearly beneficial for nausea and vomiting (from anesthesia, chemotherapy and pregnancy), post-operative dental pain , menstrual pain , tennis elbow , and Fibromyalgia ". The NIH further says that acupuncture is probably effective in treating addictions (alcohol and drugs), headaches, osteoarthritis, asthma and in rehabilitation of stroke patients. It was only the quality or quantity research in these areas that prevented them from making a more definitive statement. The World Health Organization recognizes the use of acupuncture to treat a wide variety of conditions including: Ear, Nose, and Throat Disorders including toothaches, pain after tooth extraction, earaches, sinus inflammation, nasal inflammation or dryness. Respiratory Disorders including uncomplicated bronchial asthma in children or adults. Digestive Disorders including general digestive tract problems, hiccups , inflamemation of the stomach , chronic duodenal ulcers , inflammation of the colon (Crohn's & Ulcerative Colitis) constipation, and diarrhea . Eye disorders including inflammation of the conjuctiva , inflammation of the central retina , n earsightedness (in children), and uncomplicated cataracts . Nervous system and muscular system disorders including headaches, migraines , certain facial paralysis or nerve pain , partial weakness after stroke , inflammation of nerve endings, bed wetting, frozen shoulder, tennis elbow, sciatica, low back pain and osteoarthritis . Acupuncture has been used in China for centuries to treat all of the conditions mentioned above and many more. It is also very effective for treating muscular injuries such as strains, as well as numerous gynecological conditions including menstrual pain, menopause symptoms and endometriosis . How does Acupuncture work? Traditional Chinese medicine teaches us that the body has a type of energy called qi (pronounced "chee"). The qi flows in the body within a network of invisible branches called meridians. The meridians associate with and flow through an organ. The qi flows through our bodies maintaining our health and vitality. If there is a disruption in the flow of qi, there will be problems. Likewise, injuries can also disrupt the flow of qi. When the qi does not flow smoothly, the body is not healthy and a pattern of disease appears. At certain points the qi can be easily accessed from the surface and its flow through the meridians and organs can be influenced. Needles inserted at these points are very effective in accomplishing this. The goal of acupuncture is to influence the flow of qi bringing the body back into balance (a state of health). In this way, acupuncture is tapping into the body's own natural healing mechanisms. From a Western medicine perspective , we know that inserting acupuncture needles causes the body to activate its own pain relieving, anti-inflammation and healing systems. This would explain why an acupuncture needle placed in a painful area works, but it does not explain the connection between points on the hands or feet and pain in the neck or head. The exact mechanism remains a mystery at this time. Is acupuncture painful? The Chinese say that acupuncture is bu tong , which translates as "no pain". While acupuncture is not painful by most people's standards, there may be some sensation of mild discomfort with the insertion or manipulation of the needles. In some instances a mild tingling, cramping, heaviness, distention, or electrical sensation may occur around the area of the needle or up or down the path of the affected meridian. In other instances, the patient feels virtually nothing at all. Overall, the discomfort is far less than what most people expect. Most people seem to expect a sensation similar to that felt with the drawing of blood or with an injection, but in reality any discomfort with acupuncture is significantly milder. It is very rare to find a person who finds acupuncture too painful to tolerate. Are the needles clean? The state of Wisconsin requires acupuncturists to offer pre-sterilized, disposable needles to patients. Most practitioners prefer to use single use disposable needles (i.e. the needles are used just once and disposed of). Acupuncturists must demonstrate "clean technique" including demonstrating knowledge of blood borne pathogens and infection control as part of their board certification process. How long is each treatment? A normal treatment will last from 45 minutes to an hour. The first treatment will take a little longer. How many treatments will I need? The number of treatments needed really varies based on the condition being treated. In Chinese medicine, the focus is on the whole patient. This includes the condition of the patient and the relative strength or resistance of the problem. Weak patients with long standing, chronic conditions will require far more treatments than will strong patients with acute conditions. In general, expect to have 6 to 10 weekly treatments to see improvement. Sometimes improvement is seen following the first treatment, but this is the exception more than the rule. After 6 to 10 treatments you may not be" cured", but you will have a good idea about the extent to which acupuncture is capable of helping you. With that information, you can make an informed decision regarding the value of continued acupuncture treatments. Will my insurance cover acupuncture? Individual insurance coverage varies. In some states, particularly on the West Coast and the New England areas, acupuncture services are covered by many health insurance policies. Currently in Wisconsin, only a few health insurance policies are covering acupuncture services. We encourage you to call your insurance provider and ask if they will cover. If not, tell them that you would like them to. Also ask if they are considering it and if there is anything else you can do to help get it covered. We believe it is only a matter of time before insurance will cover acupuncture services! Bodily injury coverage for auto accidents and workers' compensation are another story. Generally, they will cover acupuncture treatments. Gaining approval from the payer before you receive a treatment is the best approach. What do I need to know about coming for Acupuncture at Fox Valley Wellness Center? Before your first appointment, you will need to be examined by the doctor. Often that can be done immediately before your acupuncture appointment. There is some paperwork involved including answering questions about your personal health history as well as reading and signing an informed consent statement. It is important to list any medications, herbs and supplements you take as these may effect your condition. If it is more convenient for you to complete your paperwork at home before your arrival, this can be arranged. You should wear comfortable, loose fitting clothing. Consider that the acupuncturist will want to insert some needles in the area of your pain or discomfort and some in other areas that influence the flow of energy in the areas of your pain. These other areas are typically located in forearm to hand or knee to foot areas. Be sure that you clothing is not too tight to slide up to expose your knees and elbows. Fox Valley Wellness News The premier issue of Fox Valley Wellness/Midwest Hyperbarics newsletter is now available online! June 2011 Fox Valley Wellness Center News July 2011 Fox Valley Wellness Center News-August 2011 Fox Valley Wellness News September 2011 Fox Valley Wellness News    October 2011 Fox Valley Wellness News November 2011 Fox Valley Wellness News December 2011 Fox Valley Wellness News January 2012 Fox Valley Wellness News February 2012 Fox Valley Wellness Center/ Midwest Hyperbarics 180 Knights Way Fond du Lac, WI 54935 Phone: (920) 922-5433 (877) 676-5433 (LIFE) Email: in