
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 17:05:41 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Menopause-Lifestyle Changes for Menopause Disability Resource Directory Menopause Lifestyle Changes for Menopause For most females, menopause is a transient period and the symptoms subside over a period of 1-3
years.  However, even this short term period can be tormenting and there are a few steps one can take to
reduce the burden of being a female at this time period. For those experiencing hot or cold flashes, exercise regularly and avoid spicy foods, hot
beverages (coffee), alcohol and hot surroundings.  Dress appropriately to prevent the congested feeling. 
Menopause is associated with dryness of the vagina due to the lack of secretions (due to low
estrogens).   There are numerous over the counter products available that can replace the secretions and
even make sexual intercourse enjoyable.  The products are available at any pharmacy and include lubricants
such as Astroglide, K-Y Jelly, moisturizers (Replens, Vagisil) or vaginal estrogen.  Sleep patterns are always
altered during menopause and one should avoid aggravating this insomnia with hot beverages and alcohol.  Try
relaxation techniques, deep breathing and muscle relaxations.  Many books are available on these topics. During menopause, the pelvic floors weaken and women feel like the whole bottom part of the
body is sagging.  One should learn how to perform Kegel exercises.  These important and simple exercises
will help you strengthen your pelvic and abdominal muscles.  This will go a long way to improving not only
your sex life but also decrease the chance of developing urinary incontinence. When attempting to treat the symptoms of menopause naturally, nutrition and lifestyle changes can
be one of your biggest allies.  Aerobic exercise is simply all-around good for you; it helps keep your heart
and lungs healthy and can help you to maintain bone density.  These things are all the more important when
going through menopause.  Exercise cannot prevent menopausal symptoms, but it can certainly help to alleviate
the frequency and severity of some symptoms. Beginning and sticking with an exercise program can lessen occurrences
of hot flashes, night sweats, insomnia, fatigue, irritability, anxiety, and depression. A moderate level of
physical activity throughout the day helps most people to sleep better. As menopause sets in, women realize that they have less energy and have a decline in their physical
activity and also a loss of lean body mass.  To avoid the ravages of age and, hormonal changes of menopause,
plan on starting some type of physical activity soon.  Walking, swimming and even light jogging may be a
start; the important thing is not to allow the normal weight gain of menopause to continue.  There are
numerous drugs for weight loss but some have many potent side effects.  The most important is thing is to
start or resume some activity.  In the end, a healthy body always represents a healthy mind. Disclaimer: Statements in this article may not be approved by the FDA, and are
not made by a licensed medical practitioner or physician. Any and all health care planning should be made under the guidance of your own medical
and health practitioners. The content within only presents an overview based upon research for educational purposes
and does not replace medical advice from a practicing physician. ▪ Menopause  (Home) ▪ Menopause:  An Overview ▪ A Brief Look at  Menopause ▪ Menstrual Cycle Fluctuations Before and During Menopause ▪ 3 Tips to Help You Through Menopause ▪ Menopause: Diet and Exercise ▪ Early and Premature Menopause ▪ Menopause Symptoms You Need to Understand ▪ Menopause Symptoms and Memory Loss ▪ Lifestyle Changes for Menopause ▪ Nutritional Therapies for Menopause ▪ Herbal Therapy for Menopause ▪ Treatments Available For Menopause Sponsors Disability Resource Index Medical & Health SiteMap Privacy Contact | Feedback | Tell a Friend Copyright © 1996 -