
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 12:36:09 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Ginko Biloba & Garlic - Encapsulated Herbal Extracts - Combo Herbs - Viable Herbal Solutions Home Contact Us Wholesale Search Site Login View Shopping Cart Skip to Main Content » HEALTH BLENDS SINGLE HERBS COMBO HERBS FDA INFO ABOUT US FAQ REWARD POINTS March means St. Patrick’s Day , and most everybody loves to don some green finery and celebrate the event. Let’s celebrate with one of nature’s finest “green grasses” – BARLEY GRASS . Barley has been an exceptionally nourishing staple in the human diet for thousands of years, providing a powerhouse of essential vitamins, amino acids, minerals, antioxidants and many more nutrients that your body needs every single day. Reflecting its rich chlorophyll content , Barley Grass is a great support for digestive and immune system health and naturally healthy pH balance - as well as a natural “green” tonic to support healthy skin, hair and nails . Viable Herbal Solutions is offering Barley Grass at a special 15% discount to you for the entire month of MARCH, 2012. Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with nature’s finest green grass! Barley Grass is right here at your fingertips. Order yours now! My Cart You have 0 items in your cart Recently Viewed Valerian Root / Passion Flower Evening Primrose/Dong Quai/Chasteberry Milk Thistle/Turmeric Root/Artichoke Rutin/Hesperidin/Quercetin Echinacea Purp/Astragalus Root/Reishi Mushroom Newsletter Sign up for our newsletter: Subscribe Home / Ginkgo Biloba / Garlic Ginkgo Biloba / Garlic SKU: C265 Email to a Friend This herbal blend is formulated to improve circulation and aid cardiovascular health. Ginkgo Biloba promotes healthy circulation to the brain to ensure a healthy supply of oxygen and nutrients. It also has antioxidant properties that protect brain cells from the damaging effects of free radicals. These unique traits make Ginkgo Biloba the No. One herb for a sharp memory and a healthy, active mind. The dietary virtues of Garlic are well-known the world over. Garlic has served mankind for centuries as a remarkable natural antibiotic, antiviral and anti-fungal, as well as a nutritious way to achieve healthy immune function. Item # C265: Ginkgo Biloba / Garlic 60 Capsules $10.80 Add to Cart 90 Capsules $14.58 Add to Cart 450 Capsules $54.68 Add to Cart 700 Capsules $79.28 Add to Cart 1150 Capsules $122.09 Add to Cart 1400 Capsules $136.74 Add to Cart Ginkgo is considered the world's oldest tree species and has a high resistance to disease, insects and pollution. Ginkgo Biloba oxygenates the blood, increasing circulation and strengthening blood vessels. Chinese herbalists have recommended Ginkgo Biloba for over five thousand years to treat a variety of ailments. Anti-inflammatory properties present in Ginkgo Biloba are beneficial in the treatment of asthma, and the positive affect that Ginkgo Biloba produces in the brain and body have catapulted this herb to its current popularity among herbalists today. Ginkgo Biloba has been known to increase brain functionality, which may be beneficial for those who suffer from low concentration and memory loss. As a lung relaxant, Ginkgo Biloba is said to ease coughing and reduce tissue inflammation. Ginkgo has also proven beneficial for treating painful headaches, ringing in the ears and vertigo. Additionally, Ginkgo Biloba has been known to reduce inflammation of the veins, including varicose veins. The leaves are considered to be an antioxidant, brain tonic, circulatory stimulant, kidney tonic and rejuvenative. Ginkgo leaves have been used for Alzheimer's disease, anxiety, asthma, depression, hearing loss, impotence, memory loss, nerve deafness, pain, phlebitis, poor circulation, Reynaud's disease, stroke, tinnitus, varicose veins, vertigo and vision loss. The nuts are used for asthma, bladder irritation, catarrh, diabetes, weak kidneys, incontinence, typhoid, tinnitus, tuberculosis, frequent urination, vaginal infection and peripheral vascular disease. Ginkgo Biloba helps to relax blood vessels so that more nutrients can be delivered to the body. It helps the brain utilize oxygen and glucose better, and improves peripheral circulation, yet Ginkgo doesn't keep you awake. It increases cerebral blood flow and the rate at which information is transmitted. Ginkgo also has an anti-aggretory effect on blood platelets (reducing clotting). Garlic , a member of the family that includes onions, leeks and shallots, is native to Europe and Central Asia. Garlic, also known as Stinking Rose, Rashona, Poor Man's Teacle, Da Suan and Russian Penicillin, has long been used by many cultures to support a variety of health conditions. The name Garlic is derived from an Anglo-Saxon words, leac, meaning "pot herb" and gar, meaning "lance shape," after the shape of the leaf. The slaves who built the Pyramid of Cheops were fed rations of Garlic to give them strength, and Olympic athletes in ancient Greece chewed a clove of Garlic at the start of a competition, believing it increased their stamina. It was once used to help protect one from the Bubonic Plague and to ward off evil. For thousands of years, Garlic has been one of the most popular medicinal herbs, in spite of the legendary myth that Garlic will ward off vampires. Garlic is considered to be Nature's very own antibiotic. Unlike most antibiotics, Garlic will not deplete the body of good flora, and is considered to be the cure-all herb because of its effectiveness on the entire body. Popularly used as a digestive aid, Garlic increases bile production while enhancing digestion and reducing stomach gases. Garlic's strong odor is due mostly to a sulfide called allicin. Garlic is a source of selenium, which must be present in the body for proper immune response, and which also acts as an antioxidant in combination with vitamin E. Rich in potassium, zinc, selenium and vitamins A and C, Garlic is commonly used to fight infection, increase circulation and help prevent cardiovascular disease. Garlic has been known to detoxify the body by cleansing the kidneys and increasing urine flow. Furthermore, Garlic's healing properties make it an ideal agent for fighting colds and flu, bacteria and fungi. Garlic has also been used for lowering cholesterol, reducing high blood pressure and for treating respiratory problems such as bronchitis and asthma. Recommended Dosage: Take one (1) capsule, two (2) times each day with water at mealtimes. Contraindications: Because of Garlic's anti-clotting properties, people taking anticoagulant drugs should check with their doctor before taking this product. Those scheduled for surgery should inform their surgeon if they are taking Garlic supplements. Capsule Information: Our Absinthe supplements are encapsulated in 100% Gluten-free, Vegetable Cellulose, Certified Kosher , size "00" Capsules. (click here for size comparison) Each capsule contains approximately 600 mgs. Special Note: If any medical terms on our website are confusing or unknown, we have compiled a small dictionary of terms for you. Click here for our Definitions, and go directly to the word in question for further information. Disclaimer: The information presented herein by Viable Herbal Solutions is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult with your own health care provider. Viable Herbal Solutions (866) 437-3122 8am - 5pm EST, M-F. Customer Service Shipping Policies Returns & Exchanges Privacy Policy Ordering Information Reward Program Viable Herbal About Us Help & Info FAQ - Questions My Account Follow Us Facebook Twitter StumbleUpon © Copyright 2010 Viable Herbal Solutions. All rights res