Cache-Control: max-age=3, must-revalidate
Expires: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 08:49:06 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Buy Medical Supplies Your Health | Your Money Discount Medical Supplies and Equipment Welcome Contact Privacy Terms and Conditions Sitemap September 11, 2008 Lumbar Sacral Support 0 The  New  DonJoy  Boa  Lumbar-Sacra  Back  Support  is  not  your  typical  back  brace. The  patented  Lacer  Design  Compression  System  is  an  integral  feature  of  the  BOA  Back  Brace.  The  system  utilizes  a  multiple  tear-drop  channel  design  in  conjunction  with  a  high-tension  harness  cord  and  one  simple  pull  strap  to  efficaciously  tighten  the  orthosis  with  minimal  exertion,  strength,  grasp  and  body  motion  by  the  patient. Features  and  Benefits  of  The  DonJoy  BOA  Lumbar-Sacral  Back  Support  include: *  Rigid,  heat-moldable  kydex  contoured  anterior  panel  and  liner  for  increased  abdominal  compression. *  Reduce  loads  on  the  intervertebral  discs. *  Easy  to  use  compression  technology. *  Simple  hook-loop  closure. *  Pull  handle  allows  for  a  quick  closure  that  may  be  adjusted  according  to  patient  need. *  Soft,  breathable,  interior  spacer  fabric. *  Outer  mesh  allows  heat  to  escape  without  compromising  stability. *  Lightweight  and  low  profile. *  Multifunctional  use  for  post-operative  and  maintenance  use. *  Lordotic  Foam  inserts  available  at  varying  degrees  for  the  treatment  of  lordosis. *  Available  in  Low  Profile  8″  or  Regular  10″. *  Rigid  posterior  compression  panels. “The  BOA  back  brace  solution  is  an  crucial  element  of  our  spine  market  strategy,”  said  Les  Cross,  president  and  CEO  of  dj  Orthopedics.  “The  prevalence  of  back  problems,  and  the  merchandise  and  procedures  centered  around  the  treatment  of  spinal  disorders  and  pain,  have  made  the  spine  segment  one  of  the  greatest  and  quickest  growing  orthopedic  markets.  With  the  launch  of  the  BOA  back  brace,  we  now  offer  a  more  finish  solution  for  rehabilitation  from  spinal  surgery  and  other  back-related  injuries. With  the  launch  of  the  new  BOA  back  brace,  DJ  Orthopedics  likewise  offers  both  a  rigid  back  brace  to  provide  post-surgical  support  as  well  as  a  line  soft  compression  braces  applied  for  every day  maintenance  and  pain  relief.” It  is  always  commended  to  consult  with  your  treating  doctor  to  determine  the  rectify  brace  for  your  orthopedic  condition. Lumbar  Sacral  Support The  Lumbar  Sacral  Support  is  designed  to  relieve  lower  back  pain  and  provide  help  where  it  is  necessitated  most.  This  cool,  lightweight  lumbar  help  provides  aid  and  compression  to  the  lower  lumbar  and  abdominal  region,  helping  relieve  lower  back  pain.  The  latex-free  design  has  tapered,  breathable  elastic  bands  that  overlap,  giving  a  contoured  shape  and  added  support.. Lumbar Sacral Support Photo Lumbar Sacral Support Photo Lumbar Sacral Support Pic Lumbar Sacral Support Photo Most helpful customer reviews 4 of 4 people found the following review helpful. Relief for Back Problems By Arthur B. Coppin My wife was diagnosed as having a slipped disk in her lower back.  Pain shot down both legs and limited her mobility.  She used this product and got instant relief from her back problems. 4 of 4 people found the following review helpful. works great By C. Wiegand physical therapy suggested a lumbar belt for my continous back problem. this product has worked great. I was looking for a light weight belt for summer, it get’s hot in Texas. This has worked fine and is really light weight but does a good job in support. 2 of 2 people found the following review helpful. support of support By Stephen Kiss great product for daily wear. goes on easy is light and supports well. Top sometimes ravels See all 7 customer reviews… Similar Products To Lumbar Sacral Support Lumbar Sacral Support Lumbar Sacral Support FLA 10" Lumbar Sacral Back Support with Abdominal Belt #31208 – Medium Mueller Adjustable Lumbar Back Brace, Black, One Size Fits Most, 1-Count Package Lumbosacral Support Belt – Lumbar Back Belt, Lumbar Belts, Lumbar Support Belt, Lumbo Sacral Belt, Sacral Support Belt, Lumbosacral Belts Graham Field Lumbar Sacral Support Large Tags: back brace , Back braces , back injury , back sprain , back support , dj ortho , donjoy , herniated disc , sciatica . Filed under Braces and Supports by Shane Stewart on Sep 11th, 2008 . Leave a Comment Click here to cancel reply. You must be logged in to post a comment. Login . Recent Posts Transport Wheel Chair Sonic Boom Alarm Drive Medical Silver Ric Hearing Aids Scooter Mobility Carrier Transport Chair Red Wheelchair Lightweight Folding Digi Open Fit Wheelchair Tire Tube Aid Aidsvery Hardhearing Aid Aidssevere Hearing Plugs Earplugs Protection Maxi Lite Folding Weight Travel Wheelchairfold Ultra Lightweight Wheelchair Pages Contact Emergency Medical Supplies Emergency First Aid Supplies Emergency Medical Kits Emergency Medical Services Supplies Emergency Medical Supplies Health Emergency Medical Supplies List Medical Supply Stores First Aid Supplies Basic First Aid Supplies Bulk First Aid Supplies First Aid Kits First Aid Refills Medical Office Supplies Medical Chart Supplies Medical Office Filing Supplies Medical Supplies For The Elderly Binsons Medical Supply Medical Aids For Elderly Medical Equipment Medical Supplies For The Home Medical Supplies Online Roberts Medical Supplies Roberts Medical Supplies Sears Medical Supplies Nursing Supplies Breastfeeding Supplies Nursing Shoes Nursing Supplies Catalog Nursing Uniforms Nursing Watches Orthopedic Medical Supplies Orthopedic Medical Equipment Orthopedic Surgical Supplies Orthopedic Walkers Podiatry Medical Supplies Privacy Sitemap Surgical Supplies Medical Supplies Orthopedic Surgical Supplies Surgery Supplies Surgical Equipment Supplies Surgical Instruments Surgical Instruments Supplies Terms and Conditions Welcome Wholesale Medical Supplies Discount Medical Supplies Gauze Sponges Overstock Medical Supplies Wholesale First Aid Supplies Wholesale Medical Equipment Wholesale Nursing Supplies Wholesale Surgical Supplies Ninja Neoprene Knee Divided Leg Sling Elastic Knee Support Support Patella Ankle Brace Elbow Brace Medline Molicare Super Shower Chair Invacare Shoulder Support Belt Toilet Seatremovable Arms Welcome Contact Privacy Terms and Conditions Sitemap Copyright Discount Medical Supplies and Equipment, 2012 Made with an easy to use 