Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Depressed and hopeless from weight gain after gastric bypass Unbiased. Informed. Current. Obesity Surgery Topics Surgery Types Payment Life After Find a Surgeon Share | FREE Quarterly Newsletter Bariatric Surgery Is It Right for You? Bariatric Treatment Overview Types of Bariatric Surgery How to Choose the Right Bariatric Doctors Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Obesity Cause & Effect Causes of Obesity Obesity and Genetics Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Cause and Effect of Obesity Obesity Health Problems Effects of Teen Obesity Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Complications of Gastric Bypass Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Gastric Lap Band Procedure Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Other Effective Procedures Gastric Sleeve Surgery Duodenal Switch Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Diet Before & After Surgery Bariatric Diet Bariatric Eating Techniques Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Financing & Insurance Financing Bariatric Surgery Unsecured Medical Loans Bariatric Surgery Insurance Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad Cost of Bariatric Surgery Life After Surgery Life after Weight Loss Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Weight Loss Surgery Support Groups Online Weight Loss Support Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Challenges Bariatric Surgery Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks Weight Gain after Bariatric Surgery Blood Clot Symptoms Dumping Syndrome Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources What's New? We Proudly Support... Depressed and hopeless from weight gain after gastric bypass by Elaine (Gloucester, England) I had gastric bypass surgery in Birmingham, England about 5 years ago.  I loved the weight that dropped off... I lost 9 stone (126 lbs) in total.  But over the last 2 years I have put on nearly 3 stone (42 lbs). I am so low and am on antidepressants.  I don't want to go out... all I can see it he fat person I was and am rapidly heading back to.  I feel so useless and hate that I can't deal with this sanely. Please don't think "how dramatic" and laugh.  I really need someone's help.  I'm 49 and have no friends, and I don't find it easy to socialize and meet new people.  I can't work due to depression and osteoarthritis in most joints.  I also have osteoporosis due to lack of absorption of calcium and nutrients. I can't get funding for further treatment, and my local hospital does not deal with bariatric surgery or problems.  I can't raise the money personally because I'm on benefits. Where do I go from here?  I was not warned about putting weight back on... that's why I had major surgery instead of a band. Comments for Depressed and hopeless from weight gain after gastric bypass Click here to add your own comments It is not too late to turn this around NEW by: Denise I can absolutely relate to your weight gain and feeling of being out of control and depressed. I had lost 140 pounds after gastric bypass 8 years ago and over the past 2-3 years had regained 42 punds back as well. I thought I was too far gone and that I would soon be back to being over 300 pounds. Thankfully I found online support. This site led me to Yvonne, bariatricgirl.com, who I now call my WLS guardian angle! She led me in the right direction and gave me support, guidance and the vision that there is light at the end of my dark tunnel. I didn't need another surgery, I needed the control to go back to basics. I had tried to do that numerous times before, but could never control my mind long enough to follow my healthy eating plan. THEN I found the Living After Weightloss Surgery website and the 5 Day Pouch Test Diet. In 5 days I rid myself of the dependence I had on carbohydrates. As funny as it may sound, I was apparently addicted to carbs like a drug addict needs crack! On the 5 day plan, I actually experienced severe headaches and the sweats as my body came off carbs. After the 5 days I was able to go back to the basics of healthy high protein, low surgar, healthy fats, and healthy fruits and vegetables without any cravings or difficulty. I am back in control and the scale is going down! In just 3 weeks, I have lost 12 pounds already and gained the hope and confidence I needed. YOU CAN DO IT TOO!!!  Use the same strategies you followed after originally having surgery. I never thought I would be able to have cookies, chips, crackers, bread, and pizza in front of me and not just have a taste which would eventually lead to a binge and then a self beating of depression, but I have total control now! I have 2 young kids who eat everything in front of me and I have stayed strong without even the desire to eat the junk. I will not say the first 5 days were easy, but once you rid your body of the simple carbs, the cravings stop and the control clicks in. Give it a shot. It is not too late and you don't need another surgery. I will share a quote from a woman named Gina that has become my motto...."The only revision I needed was revision of my mind!" Boy is that so true! I believe if you use this site, Bariatric Girl site and the Living After Weightloss Surgery site, you will see that you are not alone and you can do it! Good luck! Denise Don't give up Hope.... NEW by: Traci (Bariatric Life Coach) Elaine- Please know that you are not alone in your journey.  There are many of us in the WLS community who are here to support you online, over the phone, skype etc.  You have taken the first positive step by reaching out to your fellow WLS community.  You are not alone in your struggles or weight gain and right now you are at a road bump in your journey.   We all need support on different levels and we need to work on getting you in a better place. Try to reflect on why you did this in the beginning and remember how far you have come.   Many WLS patients struggle and gain weight at some point in their journey no matter what type of surgery.  The surgeon’s operated on our stomachs and gave us a tool to help in our weight struggles.  Unfortunately they did not operate on our heads so we all still battle food issues on some level and that is why support is a huge part of our journey.  The internet can be a very useful tool because you can reach an enormous variety & amount of people. I would encourage you to track what you’re eating and what you are feeling.  Keep it simple but know your amount of protein, carbs, calories and hydration.  Sometimes if we write it down or track it online etc..  seeing things in black and white can help us recognize patterns in our habits.  If you can write down your emotion or mental state when you eat that may also be a good visual for you and any patterns.  Maybe one day you write three sentences because it’s been a rough day and you need to get it out and maybe the others are just a few words or one word.  Ex: sad, happy, angry, tired, depressed.. Cater it to your needs and what works for Elaine. Be honest with yourself but don’t beat yourself up.  You are human and we all make mistakes.  Ask yourself: Am I eating high sugary foods?  Am I eating a lot of carbs?  How much protein am I truly getting every day? Am I staying hydrated with bari friendly drinks verses caffeine and un necessary calories?  Am I exercising enough?  What are my daily habits and recognize both the positive and negative. I will be 5 years post op in October and I just wrote a post on my baribits blog about my current struggles and it’s hard opening up to people and being honest with yourself. Keep reaching out to your online WLS community and I truly believe you will get an amazing level of support! I hope this helps and please don’t give up….. Warmly,  Traci depressed and helpless NEW by: Elaine Sparrow i would like to thank Denise and Tracy for taking the time to offer me help. i have taken both lots of advise on board and agree i have to go back to basics and be kinder to myself. i will write down everything i eat/drink and be honest with myself. i know im comfort eating and dont need a packet of biscuits, and then beat myself up for failing. please can i keep in touch with you both? i dont know if you would want to send me an email address? i also need to watch portion control, as that has crept up and up. thanks again, elaine Click here to add your own comments Join in and write your own page! It's easy to do. How? Simply click here to return to Weight Loss Surgery Questions Did you find this post - or Bariatric Surgery Source in general - useful? If so, please continue to help us help you. Spread the word to your friends, family and business associates by clicking the "Like" button in the top left of this page . For additional research, search for your topic... Back
       to Bariatric Surgery Source Home Page Disclaimer: The information contained in this web site is provided for general informational purposes only. It is not intended as nor should be relied upon as medical advice.  Rather, it is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her existing physician(s). Before you use any of the information provided in the site, you should seek the advice of a qualified medical, dietary, fitness or other appropriate professional. In the spirit of full
disclosure: We proudly support this
website through advertising and affiliate ("aff") marketing. In other words,
when you click on a link that takes you outside of this website, we
sometimes earn a small commission. These small commissions allow us to keep
the site up and running and to continue offering it completely free of
charge to you. Rest assured that all content, recommendations and
advice are created before, and are independent of, any sponsorship or
affiliate relationship. Click
here for more info. Use right scroll bar to view entire site map Ask a Weight Loss Surgery Question Surgery Q & A Click Here Our community gives and receives real-life, honest and constructive feedback and advice. The Bariatric Examiner: Your FREE Quarterly Newsletter Sign up now to receive important bariatric surgery news and research updates... Email Name Then We promise to keep your information private . The Bariatric Surgery Blog: FREE real-time updates Chose your favorite RSS reader below to stay up-to-date on important new content... Subscribe To The Bariatric Surgery Blog Get the BMI Calculator widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info ) WLS Blogs We Like Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Girl Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Life Coach Lap band blog posts by the Bandit Lap band surgery blog posts by Lap Band Groupie Bariatric Girl Bari Bits Lap Band Groupie at The Sweet Spot Lonicera's LapBand & Other Stories Waning Woman Who Hid the Donuts? Have a WLS blog? Contact us! Research on Obesity Obesity United States Statistics - Adults Child Obesity Statistics & Teenage Obesity Statistics How to Calculate BMI (body mass index) Free BMI Calculator (right margin of page) BMI Calculator Chart How to Calculate Body Fat Percentage Causes of Obesity (page focuses on causes) Cause and Effect of Obesity (page focuses on effect) Teen Obesity Effects Obesity and Genetics Set Point Theory Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Treatments for Obesity Obesity Discrimination Obesity Health Problems Obese and Pregnant Bariatric Treatment Is Bariatric Surgery Right for You? Choosing
 the Right Bariatric Doctors & Bariatric Weight Loss Center Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area (city/state/ country search) Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Canada Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks (mortality) Bariatric Surgery Complications (incl. risks, complications & side effects) Dumping Syndrome Blood Clot Symptoms, Prevention and Treatment Gastric Bypass Side Effects Gastric Bypass Surgery Deaths & Risks of Gastric Bypass Complications of Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Lap Band Erosion Lap Band Surgery Failure Types of Weight Loss Surgery Types of Bariatric Surgery - Overview & Comparison Bariatric Surgery Video Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery - Analysis & Cost Gastric Lap Band Procedure Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Lap Band Surgery Results Lap Band vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Duodenal Switch (Bileopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal Switch - BPD/DS) Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Experimental Weight Loss Surgery EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner Implantable Maestro System TOGA bariatric surgery system Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction (TGVR) Gastric Bypass Revision ROSE procedure StomaphyX Procedure Conversion to lap band surgery Lengthen the Roux limb Conversion to duodenal switch Bariatric Diet Bariatric Diet Guidelines Before & After Surgery Bariatric Eating - What vs How to Eat Free Online Diet Journal Reviews Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Alcohol After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric Surgery Recovery Weight & Health After Obesity Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Relationships After Bariatric Surgery Diet After Bariatric Surgery Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Support In-person Bariatric Surgery Support Online Weight Loss Support Free Diet Journal Reviews Top Bariatric Surgery Forum Options:
Gastric Bypass Forum, Lap Band Forums & Forums for Other Procedures Support from Family & Friends After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Bariatric Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Affordable Tummy Tuck Thigh Lift Plastic Surgery Financing Weight Loss Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Loan & Plastic Surgery Loans (Unsecured Medical Loans) Secured Medical Loans Cost of Bariatric Surgery Financing Bariatric Surgery & Getting the Costs Down Weight Loss Surgery Tax Considerations Bariatric Surgery Insurance (incl. DS, VBG, gastric bypass & lap band insurance) Health Insurance Appeal Letter & the Appeals Process Medicare Bariatric Surgery Coverage Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad (medical travel / medical tourism) Free weight loss surgery (charity care & government assistance) Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery BSS Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery How to Get the Most Out of Bariatric Surgery Source What's New? About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources Weight Loss Surgeon Directory Pages United States Weight Loss Surgeons Canada (Bariatric Surgery Canada) Alabama (Alabama Weight Loss Surgery) Alaska (Alaska Weight Loss Surgeon) Arizona (Bariatric
      Surgery Arizona) Arkansas (Weight Loss
      Surgery in Arkansas) California
      - Northern (Northern
        California Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Bay Area - Alta Bates California
      - Southern (Bariatric
        Surgery Southern California) Bariatric Surgery Los Angeles - Dr. Korman Weight Loss Surgery Los Angeles - CBGSA Colorado (Colorado
      Weight Loss Surgery) Connecticut (Weight Loss
      Surgery Connecticut) Delaware (Weight Loss Surgery in Delaware) District of Columbia (Washington D.C Weight Loss Surgery) Florida (Bariatric Surgeons Florida) Georgia (Bariatric Surgery in Georgia) Hawaii (Hawaii Weight Loss Surgeon) Idaho (Idaho Weight Loss Surgery) Illinois (Illinois Bariatric Surgery) Indiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Indiana) Iowa (Iowa Bariatric Surgery Clinics) Kansas (Weight Loss Surgery in Kansas) Kentucky (Weight Loss Surgery in Kentucky) Louisiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Louisiana) Maine (Weight Loss Surgery in Maine) Maryland (Bariatric Surgery Maryland) Massachusetts (Bariatric Surgery in Massachusetts) Michigan (Bariatric Surgery Michigan) Minnesota (Bariatric Surgery Minnesota) Mississippi (Weight Loss Surgery in Mississippi) Missouri (Weight Loss Surgery Missouri) Montana (Weight Loss Surgery in Montana) Nebraska (Weight Loss Surgery in Nebraska) Nevada (Weight Loss Surgery in Nevada) Gastric Bypass Surgery Las Vegas & Lap Band Surgery Las Vegas - Dr. Teng New Hampshire (Bariatric Surgery in New Hampshire) New Jersey (Bariatric Surgery New Jersey) Weight Loss Surgery New Jersey - Dr. Feteiha New Mexico (New Mexico Weight Loss Surgery) New York (New York Weight Loss Surgery) New York Bariatric Surgery - The Center for Metabolic & Weight Loss Surgery North Carolina (North Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) North Dakota (North Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Ohio (Bariatric Surgery Ohio) Oklahoma (Bariatric Surgery in Oklahoma) Weight Loss Surgery in Oklahoma - Dr. Gornichec Oregon (Oregon Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Oregon - Dr. Patterson Pennsylvania (Pennsylvania Weight Loss Surgery) Rhode Island (Rhode Island Weight Loss Surgery) South Carolina (South Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) South Dakota (South Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Tennessee (Bariatric Surgery Tennessee) Texas (Weight Loss Surgery in Texas) Weight Loss Surgery Houston Lap Band Surgery Dallas TX - Dr. Kim Bariatric Surgeons Dallas - Dr. Kuhn Houston Bariatric Surgery - Dr. St. Laurent Utah (Utah Weight Loss Surgery) Vermont (Weight Loss Surgery in Vermont) Virginia (Weight Loss Surgeon in Virginia) Washington (Bariatric Surgery Washington) Washington, DC (Washington D.C Bariatric Surgery) West Virginia (West Virginia Weight Loss Surgery) Wisconsin (Bariatric Surgery Wisconsin) Wyoming (Wyoming Weight Loss Surgery) Home | Types of Bariatric Surgery | Qualification for Bariatric Treatment | Financing Bariatric Surgery & Insurance Life After Weight Loss Surgery | Find a Bariatric Surgeon Copyright © 2008-2012  Bariatric Surgery Source | Privacy Policy | Forum Policy | Advertising  Policy | Disclaimer | Advertise Resources | About Us | Advisory Council | Contact Us | RSS This site complies with the HONcod