Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

CYCLING PERFORMANCE TIPS CYCLING PERFORMANCE TIPS Last updated: 10/17/2011 EXERCISE INDUCED 
	MUSCLE PAIN, SORENESS, AND CRAMPS There are three varieties of "exercise associated" muscle pain. soreness during or immediately after exercise delayed onset muscle pain muscle cramps (which can occur during or post exercise) MUSCLE PAIN DURING EXERCISE Exercise requiring significant effort, either high energy demands (low resistance, 
rapid contraction rate) or substantial muscle effort (high resistance, low contraction 
rate) is often associated with muscle pain or discomfort. No  study has identified a 
single cause for this discomfort, although the fact that it occurs more quickly in a 
muscles with a limited blood supply suggests that the culprit is a byproduct of muscle 
metabolism. In addition, as the ingestion of sodium 
bicarbonate will delay the onset of pain, it is thought 
that the metabolite is acidic in character. Lactic acid is the likeliest candidate although other metabolites such as 
pyruvic acid and ammonia have also been mentioned. Based on the differing findings in 
various studies in the literature, it is more likely that pain in the actively 
contracting muscle is multifactorial related to a combination of acidic 
intermediate metabolites, ionic shifts at the cell 
membrane level (K, magnesium), and actual changes in the muscle cell proteins themselves.  
As training  will increase the level of activity at which discomfort 
occurs indicates that the  muscle cell can adapt to these factors. It is interesting to note that the body has a mechanism to deal with this discomfort.  
Endorphins, opiate like substances produced internally, are secreted into the central 
nervous system during endurance exercise and alter the perception of pain during 
prolonged high intensity exercise. Thus we have a mechanism to warn of muscle overuse
(pain) as well as an intrinsic process to help us deal with that pain if we opt 
to continue. Although the conventional wisdom is that taking aspirin before a ride will cut down on 
muscle pain during exercise, a study at the University of Georgia recently concluded 
that even at large doses (20 mg per kg - or 4 standard aspirin for the average rider), 
aspirin did not delay the onset of muscle pain during exercise or reduce the perceived 
intensity at which it occurred. DELAYED ONSET MUSCLE SORENESS (DOMS) Delayed soreness (or stiffness) begins 24 to 48 hours after exercise and peaks 
at 48 to 72 hours.  It is most evident after "eccentric" muscle activity 
(actively resisting lengthening of the muscle such as occurs in raising or lowering a 
weight) which indicates it is due to high tension on muscle fibers and connective 
tissues and is less common in isometric or static tension activity. The soreness 
is accompanied by a decrease in muscle strength, 
a reduced range of motion, and leakage of  muscle cell proteins (creatine kinase, 
myoglobin) into the blood where these enzyme and protein levels can be measured. 
These three findings indicate that actual muscle damage is the culprit (most likely 
minute tears) rather than a buildup of metabolic 
byproducts during exercise. Muscle biopsies confirm that it indeed associated with 
muscle fiber damage with an inflammatory response. Generally DOMS occurs after above normal eccentric exercise. It does not appear 
that soreness from previous exercise increases the chance of further muscle damage. In 
fact the adaptive process of healing, even from microscopic injury with minimal pain,  
appears to have a protective effect against the development of additional muscle damage and 
soreness from subsequent exercise. Theoretically small doses of damage over time 
will provide cumulative protection - thus the rationale for a gradually progressive 
exercise training program. In 1997, a small group of elite athletes with a combination of chronic fatigue and delayed 
onset muscle soreness were studied .  Muscle biopsies 
were abnormal and the authors speculated that cumulative, low level, chronic injury 
might interfere with performance. Whether chronic injury is involved in the 
symptoms we call overtraining is still considered speculative. 
But it does lend support to the idea that adequate rest in a training program is as important 
as the actual physical training itself. MUSCLE CRAMPS (CRAMPING) It's not unusual to hear the following story: "I entered my first mountain bike race (18 miles) and at mile 14, my thighs and 
right calf cramped up.  This has happened before on long rides.  I thought I trained 
enough, hydrated enough, and ate enough bananas, but I still cramped up and had to go 
real slow for the last 4 miles.  It was sooooo frustrating.  I have another race coming 
up next month but its only 12 miles but has steeper hills.  What should I do?  Do tights 
help reduce cramps?  When I get them (cramps) should I massage the cramped area?  Should 
I train the amount of miles of the race?" A cramp is an intense, active contraction of the muscle. Cramps are much more 
common when you use your muscles 
beyond their accustomed limit either 
for a longer than normal duration or at a higher than normal level 
of activity . This explains why cramps are more common at the end of a long or 
particularly strenuous ride or after a particularly vigorous sprint. Cramps are 
among the most frequent complaint in marathon participants (18% in one study).  In another 
study of cyclists competing in a 100 mile race, 70% of male participants experienced 
cramps (women, interestingly, had a rate less than half as frequent at 30%). Cramps 
can occur during activity, in the hours afterwards, or the night after a 
particularly long ride or competitive event. They become more common with age. Although cramps may occasionally be exacerbated by a fluid and electrolyte (sodium) imbalance 
from sweating, that is not universally the case as individuals involved in activities 
requiring chronic use of a muscle without sweating (musicians for example) will also 
experience cramps. In one study of marathon runners, there were no differences in sodium or hydration levels 
between the 15 participants who developed cramps and the 67 who didn't. This was 
confirmed in another study in ultradistance 
runners . And although a low magnesium level can cause severe muscle cramping, 
another study of magnesium supplements 
in triathletes failed to show any benefits in preventing cramping. As is often the case when there is no consensus on etiology, you will find 
many conflicting opinions on treatment options. A review of the literature 
indicates that it cramps are more likely in the setting of the triad of 
salt loss, fluid loss and muscle fatigue. The following comments provide some thoughts 
as to treatment options to consider if you are suffering from frequent muscle cramps: training - Exercising beyond your usual level of training (as you push 
yourself to improve - intervals, long rides) increases the odds of muscle 
cramping. Thus muscle cramps are to some degree an expected
side effect of heavy training. Just as with the two other forms of activity 
related muscle pain referred to above, increasing your training to better 
approximate the level of exertion to match the anticipated activity or event 
will decrease the possibility of incapacitating cramps during the event itself. hydration - Dehydration can aggravate 
muscle cramping, so pay close attention to maintain adequate hydration - both 
during training and when competing. electrolyte replacement - Electrolyte imbalance 
(as well as magnesium deficiency) is unproven (in physiologic experiments) as 
a reproducible cause of muscle cramping. None the less, there is significant anecdotal experience that indicates that salt loss 
(especially in 
heavy sweaters) is a culprit in muscle cramps in hot conditions. That said, it seems to me it 
does no harm to make sure you maintain hydration (and to a reasonable degree) 
electrolyte replacement while exercising. Sweat contains approximately 2 grams of sodium/liter, 1 gram chloride/liter, 
0.2 gram potassium /liter, and 0.1 gram magnesium/liter (and if you are 
acclimated to the level of exertion and environmental conditions, these 
concentrations are even lower). Except in extreme circumstances, dietary 
intake easily replaces these losses. If you will be exercising in excessively hot or humid conditions, most trainers 
will stress paying close attention to salt intake - and perhaps adding 1/2 tsp of salt (1150 mg of sodium) per day to 
your food (heavy slating of your meal is probably just as effective). Don't 
worry about elevating your blood pressure as we are talking 
about a short term supplement while the sodium effect on blood pressure happens 
over months to years. A sports drink, with its electrolyte content) will help 
but it is more likely that maintaining adequate hydration is their most 
important benefit rather than the small amount of electrolytes they contain.
And plain water is still a lot less expensive to keep up the hydration level. 
But remember that with water "more is not necessarily better" and hyponatremia is always a small risk if you aren't paying 
close attention to the balance of your intake and losses.  The role of other 
micronutrients and vitamins in preventing cramps is generally unproven - 
and anecdotal experience with the benefits of home remedies (except for 
pickle juice - one study and this was via a neural reflex 
mechanism, not an effect on body fluid composition) is unproven. "I read about a study of cramping during the Hotter'n Hell Hundred in Texas. They 
took blood samples of riders that cramped and riders that didn't. The most common 
deficiency wasn't calcium or potassium like many would guess, but magnesium. They 
suggested using Rolaids as Rolaids have both calcium and magnesium, whereas 
Tums only contains calcium. I like the fact that Rolaids covers you both ways." "I have been plagued with leg cramps until a friend suggested standard calcium 
with magnesium supplements. I would take them prior to bed with a large glass of water. 
Amazingly, no more cramps. I also suffered during long rides and was concerned during 
a cross-country tour with my wife last summer. I would take one tablet in the morning 
and afternoon and of course stay hydrated. Not once during even the most arduous days 
or while sleeping did I suffer any cramps." As magnesium is lost in sweat, the idea of a magnesium deficiency is physiologically 
more attractive than speculation that calcium (unproven as a culprit, probably 
as you have so much calcium available in your bones to draw upon) is at fault. I could find 
only a single study in the literature that suggested 
that relative magnesium deficiency may play a role. muscle glycogen stores - replenishment of ATP is necessary for proper muscle cell functioning, thus adequate Caloric intake is 
necessary for optimal physical performance. Whether inadequate glycogen reserves 
are also a reason for muscle cramping is speculative. What's the answer? Everyone's physiology is different, and as the reason for muscle 
cramps is most certainly multifactorial, the solution to cramp prevention almost 
certainly varies from person to person. Maintaining adequate fluid 
replacement and nutrition during training is essential for optimal physical 
performance above and beyond any benefits in preventing muscle cramps. From 
there it is a trial and error approach to see what might help you. If you 
suffer from muscle cramps, try manipulating supplements - potassium, magnesium, 
calcium (using one of the commercial brands) - and even trying some of the commercial 
products touted as cramp preventers. But for the vast majority who 
only rarely suffer from cramps it will be training, fluids 
and carbs that are the key. And for this group, supplements are just an added expense 
without any clear benefit. If cramps do occur, gently stretching the affected muscle will give relief, and preventive stretching can prevent cramps .  Calf cramps while 
riding can be relieved by standing on the bike and dropping your heel, while anterior thigh 
cramps can be stretched out by unclipping and moving your thigh backwards towards your 
buttocks. Although a number of medications have been suggested as treatments for muscle 
cramps (vitamin E, verapamil, and nifedipine to name a few) only quinine has been shown to be effective in 
scientifically controlled studies. But its high incidence of side effects limits its 
usefulness as a routine treatment.

So what would I recommend for those suffering from frequent muscle cramps? Most importantly an adequate training program designed in both intensity 
and duration for the event or riding being considered A close second, maintaining good hydration. Weigh yourself before and 
after training rides, and if your weight drops, your fluid intake
needs to be increased. Use a sports drink (containing electrolytes) for severe conditions of heat and humidity. If you are using an electrolyte free replacement, use 
a reasonable amount of salt in your diet to minimize the small risk 
of hyponatremia. A regular program of stretching before, during, and after exercise. Magnesium replacement may have some benefit, but that is speculative. Consider a trial of pickle juice in those suffering from debilitating cramps. Pushing beyond your training is a sure fire way to get them. Remember to "
train to the ride"and push yourself to the exertion level of your competitive ride once 
a week. The first 2 readers' questions below highlight the role training can play in 
the prevention of cramps - even though 
it relates to the question of cramps in a non cycling event. (The answer was 
provided by an associate at my clinic.) Q: I started cycling about 6 months ago and trained really hard this summer for a 
double century.   In all the training and the race itself I rarely suffer from 
any muscle spasms.   However since I started cycling I (may just be coincidence) 
get EXTREME spasms when I hike down hill.   Hiking uphill doesn't bother me, but my quads 
and calves literally freeze up after only 5-10 minutes of down hill hiking.   It becomes 
so painful I can barely bend my leg.   Last time I only hiked 1/2 mile and I thought 
they were going to have to carry me out.   I've tried stretching before and it doesn't help.   
Within hours the spasms are nearly gone and by morning I feel fine.   This probably 
sounds crazy, but I can't figure out how I can bike 200 miles and can't hike 1/2 mile. A: Here's the somewhat technical answer: The ankle plantar flexors and quads act 
concentrically in cycling - that is they generate tension (fire) while shortening.  
Through the down stroke the ankle plantar flexes and the knee extends under the influence 
of the gastrocs, soleus and quads.  At the bottom of the stroke and through the up stroke,  
the hamstrings are shortening too. In walking down hill the opposite is true. Your friend is repeatedly letting himself 
down hill under the eccentric firing of the quads, plantar flexors and hamstrings.  To 
keep from falling forward the hamstrings fire to keep the pelvis from rotating forwards.  
During stance phase the ankle dorsiflexes over the planted foot lengthening the plantar 
flexors and the knee flexes lengthening the quadriceps muscles.  A pack will change the 
equation in that it will greatly amplify the intramuscular tension and therefore the work 
performed by the muscle. Work that these muscles are not trained (training meaning the 
physiologic and anatomic adaptations to repeated work) to do. And the short version: In terms of improving the situation the answer is really 
cross training - his muscles are well equipped for steady state aerobic concentric work 
at 90 to 110 rpm but not the greater intensity, near anaerobic threshold eccentric work 
of hiking down hill.  I would bet that eight weeks of running including 20% speed/interval 
work will turn the problem around. Q: I am 42 years old and I have been cycling for 19 years. I have one real problem 
that I can't seem to shake. CRAMPING. I have trained longer, harder, faster, further 
and taken every conceivable >concoction used, special supplements and the thing I have 
found that works the best although it does not work 100% is drinking Indian tonic water for 
the week leading up to the race. Am I right in saying that I am just one of those people 
prone to cramping or can I really do something about it. I must add that I have developed 
a strange ability to endure these cramps and ride through them only for them to reappear 
and literally bite me so hard I have nearly fallen off my bike. Kind regards. James. A: Muscle cramps are probably multifactorial in origin - exercise beyond your limits 
(distance ridden or maximum levels of exertion), dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, 
etc. And age is a factor as well. I never cramped until I got into my 40s, and leg 
cramps are a common complaint of older patients of mine. Once you have corrected 
all the variables which you can control (except age of course) it then 
becomes a matter of learning your triggers and riding within your limits (usually 
defined by trial and error) and understanding that these triggers may vary 
depending on how well you are trained at the time. Q: I recently got back on my bike about 6 months ago ab