
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 06:06:10 GMT
Connection: close

Diabetes Management - Diabetes in Pregnancy Program About Us | Contact Us | Español Your Health » Newborn Health » Fertility and Pregnancy » Women's Health » Women's Cancer » Find A Doctor Academic Excellence » Awards and Honors » Making a Referral » Medical Education » Physician Relations » Quality and Safety Clinical Trials/Research » Clinical Trials » Brown Center » Research in the News » Alpert Medical School » Research Homepage » W&I Researchers Community Resources » About/Contact » Job Opportunities » Ways To Give » Online Bill Pay » Classes/Events » Volunteer Home More Patient Resources More Physicians Resources Diabetes Management - Diabetes in Pregnancy Program Organization Women & Infants Location 2 Dudley Street, 5th floor, Suite 575 Providence, RI Hours Monday to Friday 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Contact Information Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, (401) 274-1122, ext. 2354 Diabetes in Pregnancy office (401) 274-1122, ext. 2930 Gestational Diabetes and Minority Women Celebrating Holidays with Care Recipes for People with Diabetes If you are pregnant and have diabetes-whether it is type 1 or 2, or you've developed diabetes while pregnant, which is called gestational diabetes - the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine provides a wide variety of services. Diabetes management Pregnancy has profound effects on the management of diabetes. If you choose to receive your prenatal care from the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine , you will have access to specialty-trained physicians with expertise in the management of diabetes in pregnancy, diabetes nurse-educators, and nutritionists who specialize in diabetes during pregnancy. Pre-pregnancy counseling Research has shown that women whose blood sugar levels are elevated when they become pregnant have a higher risk of having a baby with birth defects. We will help you obtain and maintain good control of your blood glucose levels before you become pregnant to decrease this risk. Educational services If you choose to receive your prenatal care from any other obstetrician, we can also help, providing: Informal classes for women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) that explain GDM, the risks it poses to both a mother and baby, and recommended treatment. Individual sessions with our diabetes nurse-educators to learn how to test your own blood glucose levels using a glucometer. Individual sessions to learn how to prepare and give yourself an insulin injection if necessary American Diabetes Association. You can find more information at the following national organizations' websites: American Diabetes Association National Institute of Diabetes & Digestive & Kidney Diseases National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse Health Headlines Avoiding Foods That Cause Heartburn Weight-bearing Exercise Avoiding Gas-producing Foods Limiting Potassium in Your Diet Strengthening Your Muscles Care New England Health System | Butler Hospital | VNA of Care New England | Care New England Wellness Center | Kent Hospital | Wom