<http://www.homeremediescures.com/?p=725>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedies Alternative therapies to drive your health problems away Home Remedies for Asthma Home Remedies for Bronchitis 15 Apr Home Remedies for BV What is Bacterial Vaginosis? BV also known as bacterial vaginosis, is a condition caused by infection of the vagina accompanied by the inflammation of the mucosal layer of the vagina. This in turn results in infection of the vulva, referred to as vulvo vaginitis . It is one of the most common problems in women, mostly in the reproductive period. Bacterial Vaginosis Symptoms Typical symptoms of bacterial vaginosis include the following: irritation as such or during sexual intercourse severe itching of the genitals abnormality in the discharge, with a foul odor pain during intercourse a burning sensation, during urination and inflammation and redness of the genitals Bacterial Vaginosis Causes A number of factors contribute to bacterial vaginosis, the most prominent being, sexual intercourse. Other causative factors are use of chemicals repeated sexual intercourse (vaginal pH increases, thereby proving beneficial for the growth of bacteria) hormones (infection prior to puberty or after menopause) poor hygiene (entry of organisms from the anal area, to the vagina) infection (such as herpes, chlamydia and gonorrhea) allergic reaction to ointments, tampons, condoms, lubricants, perfumes, spermicides, douches and soaps presence of underlying problems, such as diabetes mellitus intake of antibiotics and use of synthetic clothes Bacterial Vaginosis Treatment The kind of infection determines the mode of treatment. Anti yeast creams are helpful in the case of yeast infections. Oral antibiotics prove effective, if the causative factor is sexually transmitted infection. Avoid the use of allergy causing substances, such as perfumes, douches and so on. Over the counter drugs or suppositories are used to get rid of the unwanted organism. Home Remedies for Bacterial Vaginosis Good hygiene is the key for the prevention of infection. Certain easy-to-do home remedies are listed below: Topical application of plain yoghurt proves beneficial. Yoghurt is also consumed, along with the diet. Wash the inner wears and rinse them well, to remove traces of detergents. Such chemicals worsen irritation and infection. Soak a tea bag and refrigerate. Apply the water on the vaginal region, for immense relief. Use of antifungal powders is helpful. Include cranberry in your diet for relief from itch. Place a cold compress on the vaginal region, so as to improve the circulation. Tips for Bacterial Vaginitis Decrease the risk of bacterial vaginitis by avoidance of sprays, perfumes and douches (result in irritation) and use of loose fitting cotton clothes. Certain simple health tips to deal with Vaginitis are: Wash the vaginal region, well after intercourse. Clean the vagina, after attending nature’s call. Use warm water for bath, to decrease the growth of organisms. Home Remedies for Cystitis Home Remedies for UTI Home Remedies for Bronchitis Home Remedies for Athletes Foot Home Remedies for Boils Home Remedies | RSS 2.0 | Respond | Trackback | Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Comments Categories Aromatherapy Diets General Health Herbs Home Remedies Massage Therapy Nutrition Physical Fitness & Exercise Yoga Share This Post Recent Posts Is honey good for babies? Can it help babies grow? Neuropathy Healing Remedies Juicing for weight loss Microdermabrasion Side Effects & Risks Stop Snoring Natural Cures Weight loss diets for women History of Indian Head Massage COPD Nutrition Care Pulmonary disorders What is Anemia? Apple for diabetes Dry Cough Remedies Home Remedies for Diabetes About Cancer Home Remedies for Vitamin D deficiency Vitamin D Deficiency Symptoms About Vitamin D Vitamin A Omega 3 fats Chamomile Essential Oil – Jasmine Home Remedies for Migraine Fad Diets Anger Management Junk Food Facebook Page Disclaimer: THIS SITE DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. This is intended for informational purposes only. Always consult a professional for qualified medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. We are not responsible for any adverse circumstances or reactions you develop, by reading or following any information on our Site. 
If you develop a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. Copyright 2008 Home Remedies Cures, All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress | Entries (RSS) | Comments (RSS) About Us Contact Us 