
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 23:08:57 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.41 Ben-SSL/1.59
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

ooBdoo.......Society: People (Family) Enter your search terms Submit search form Society: 
        People (Family) Publish 
    your website RSS Feed on ooBdoo visit our publish page All Categories: are found here Other Society 
      Categories : Almanacs Dating Genealogy History Paranormal Parenting People-Babies People-Family People-Gay People-Seniors People 
        with Disabilities People-Women Rights News USA: Family NewsUSA Family Fri, 02 Mar 2012 23:08:57 +0100 Encourage Reading With Tips From Dr. Seuss ( NewsUSA ) - The first nine years of a child's life are the most critical for learning how to read. In fact, national research estimates that 74 percent of poor readers who aren't helped before age nine will continue having difficulties in high school, and only two percent will go on to complete a four-year degree. 
	"Besides being the foundation of communication and most kinds of classroom-based learning, reading skills give children a confidence and advantage that benefits them long after they finish school. And for those who actually enjoy reading? The rewards are endless," says Richard Bavaria, Ph.D. (Dr. Rick) from tutoring service and education expert, Sylvan Learning. 
	To encourage parents to renew their efforts to get children and young adults interested in reading, the experts at Sylvan are taking a few pages out of Dr. Seuss's many dog-eared books. Check out these Seuss-inspired reading tips for the could-be avid readers in your family. 
	Oh say, can you say? Reading aloud with your children is just as vital as you always heard. For toddlers and young kids, reading aloud with exaggerated voices and silly noises helps keep them interested and excited. For older children and young adults, getting them to read aloud builds confidence in their reading abilities. 
	One book, two books, red books, blue books. Most people love collecting valued items, children included. Support efforts to create their own library, and help them find new books to add to the collection. Turn trips to the grocery store or Goodwill into a treasure hunt for new books. 
	And to think that you saw that word on Mulberry Street. Car rides are ideal times to learn new words because you and your kids are being bombarded with new phrases and vocabulary around every curve. From billboards to street signs, new words are everywhere!
	Oh, the places you'll go! Let the Internet guide you. If your nine-year-old refuses to read anything other than horse books, what better place to find a reading list of age-appropriate horse books? Interactive websites like Book Adventure -- www.bookadventure.com -- allow kids to choose their own books and take short quizzes for prizes. 
	My book... By me myself. Challenge your kids by asking them to write their own stories with their own illustrations. It increases their familiarity with words and encourages creativity.
	Learn more about getting kids to explore the vast world of reading, including more Seuss tips, at www.sylvanlearning.com . Fri, 3 Feb 2012 00:00:00 EST How to Turn a Bad-to-the-Bone Dog Into an Obedient Pooch ( NewsUSA ) - Is your dog bad to the bone? Does your sweet Jack Russel guard all doors from intruders -- friends and family included? Or is it your Boxer puppy that won't stop shredding socks and underwear? Some of the cutest pooches have the worst manners. Whether you're at work or just in another room, their mischievous play may lead to anything from home repairs to staggering vet bills.Pooches and owners alike can relate to this common problem, and getting the magical, behavioral transformation you've always fantasized about is closer than you think -- premier pet care authority Camp Bow Wow is holding a contest, "Bad to The Bone: Camp Bow Wow's Worst Behaved Dog Contest," to discover North America's most ill-mannered dog. The winning pooch will receive a full year of free services ($3,000 value) at a local Camp or Home Buddies (an in-home care service offered by Camp Bow Wow ) of their choice. Most importantly, the winning dog will also receive free dog training to correct those bad habits.If you are a frustrated pet owner who doesn't have time to wait to win this contest, here are five dog-training tips straight from the Behavior Buddies experts at Camp Bow Wow to get you started:1.	Proper exercise is key! A majority of behavior issues stem from a lack of proper exercise. At least one 30-minute walk per day is sufficient for most dogs. Playing in the backyard or in the house does not count as exercise.2.	Buy a dog backpack for walks. This allows your dog to have a job and adds weight with objects like water bottles or hand weights so the dog expends more energy.3.	Challenge your dog with brain puzzles. A mentally tired dog will not spend time thinking about how to get in the garbage or waste breath yipping at neighbors.4.	Take a training class. Getting your dog to respect you is critical to having your dog listen to you.5.	Send your dog to Camp Bow Wow or hire a Home Buddies Care Giver to take Fido on a walk. A tired dog is a good dog!If your beloved Fido is still opening cabinets and devouring furniture, enter him or her in Camp Bow Wow's contest. Participants can enter on Facebook, www.facebook.com/CampBowWow , with an incriminating picture or video and a story explaining your dog's disobedient behavior. Voting is also handled via Facebook -- the contest runs through May 18.For more information, visit www.campbowwow.com . See the full list of entry rules online, as well as a location finder for the nearest Camp Bow Wow or Home Buddies near you. Wed, 1 Feb 2012 00:00:00 EST A Straining Issue for Postpartum Moms ( NewsUSA ) - New moms are often surprised when they experience a bout of constipation after giving birth, unaware that this is actually a very common postpartum complaint.
	Many women may experience constipation following childbirth , due to the slowdown of the digestive system and temporary loss of muscle tone in the abdomen. But there are other explanations. Factors that may contribute to constipation include: medications administered for postpartum pain, prenatal vitamins continued while breast feeding and anesthesia administered during labor.
	A fear of pushing can also cause a cycle of constipation. New moms may be hesitant to strain themselves because of post-childbirth tenderness, fear of tearing a stitch or pain from hemorrhoids. C-sections can also contribute.
	Mothers should know that this situation is very common. In one survey of about 1,000 new moms conducted by Russell Research in collaboration with Purdue Products, the makers of Colace Capsules, it was found that 47 percent of new moms experienced constipation or other digestive issues after giving birth, and 89 percent of those mothers experienced problems with bowel movements in the days immediately after childbirth.
	There are many ways to combat this issue. While it may be hard to get back into gear after the ordeal your body has just been through, it may help to exercise a little each day once you have been told by your doctor that it's okay. Adequate daily fiber is also key to keeping away constipation. Eating bran muffins, high-fiber cereal and lots of fruits and vegetables is a great way to make sure you're getting your daily intake. It is also important to drink plenty of fluids.
	According to the survey, 77 percent of new mothers with constipation took a stool softener, such as Colace Capsules. Since the active ingredient is docusate sodium, Colace Capsules help avoid the painful straining associated with occasional constipation. Colace Capsules is the leading product recommended by doctors and pharmacists to provide reliable relief. Of course, if you are pregnant or nursing, you should consult with your doctor before use, and remember to tell your doctor about any other medications you are taking. 
	The survey also revealed that a startling 67 percent of new moms were not warned about postpartum constipation. For more info, check out www.colacecapsules.com . Read through the "prevention" section to get tips on natural ways to combat postpartum constipation. Fri, 27 Jan 2012 00:00:00 EST Tax Relief for the Sandwich Generation ( NewsUSA ) - It's time to stop worrying that your adult, out-of-work kid may never find a job that lets him move back out of your house, and instead think of him the way the IRS potentially does: as a big, fat tax deduction .
	That's right, one consequence of the sputtering economy is that it's turned otherwise distressing family circumstances -- those "boomerang kids," for instance -- into windfalls for deduction hunters. Another bonanza, via the tax code? So many senior citizens have seen their nest eggs battered over the past few years that an estimated 9.7 million adults over age 50 are now providing some level of potentially deductible care for their own parents.
	"In many cases, you're looking at three generations living under one roof," says Elaine Smith, master tax advisor at H&R Block.  "And those caregivers -- the so-called 'sandwich generation' -- are seeing their expenses rise as a result of their increased responsibilities." 
	Just how much of a windfall are we talking? And who's eligible? Read on for some tips:
*	The $3,700 exemption. That's the reduction to your taxable income you'll realize for each qualifying child or relative. The IRS is quite specific about the definition of "qualifying," but -- in the case of returning adult children -- one thing you definitely need to keep in mind is that their total annual income must be less than $3,700.      
*	Aging parents. Unlike your child, your mom and dad needn't live with you to qualify as dependents. If they're in a nursing home or assisted living facility, say, the IRS feels your pain if you're footing more than half their bills. In which case, the medical expenses you pay are deductible on your return. "You could easily be looking at about $40,000 in expenses racked up at one of those facilities," says Smith, "which translates into thousands of dollars in savings on your tax bill."
*	Adult children. Staying on the subject of medical expenses, don't forget any extra after-tax premiums you may be paying to keep qualifying offspring on your insurance plan.  
	The IRS says the average taxpayer needed 23 hours to do their 2010 tax return. If that sounds too torturous, you might want to consider using a professional preparer like H&R Block ( www.hrblock.com ), which offers guaranteed in-person services at its retail offices nationwide as well as the only face-to-face online preparation through Block LiveSM.     
	Oh, and don't feel too smug if your adult kid hasn't boomeranged on you yet. According to a Twentysomething Inc. poll, 85 percent of 2011 college graduates surveyed said they planned on moving back home with their parents. Tue, 10 Jan 2012 00:00:00 EST Smartphones Feed New Parental Fears ( NewsUSA ) - The kids are in school, which means they spend most of their day without parental supervision. The days when parents only had to worry about their kids skipping class and getting bullied for lunch money are gone. Now, new threats have emerged around cell phone use. 
	According to a survey performed by Internet monitoring software company SpectorSoft, sexting is parents' primary concern  during the school season. 
	"Absolutely," said Rebecca Hagelin, a parent who uses SpectorSoft to track her three teenagers. "It's allowed my children to enjoy all the benefits the latest technology has to offer them, and it's allowed me to protect them from the dangers of some of the new technology," she said. "It's a win-win."
	Smartphones with advanced Internet capabilities have greatly increased parental fears about cyberbullies, online predators, sexting and the exchange of inappropriate messages and pictures.
	SpectorSoft reports that 82 percent of all families surveyed contain at least one child who has a smartphone. Even if teachers and school faculty can keep students off their phones during school hours, who protects them after school?
	Bryan Bowers, author of "Keep Your Family Safe Online," said that the survey proves parents are starting to gain greater awareness of what their children are actually up to on their phones and online. "So many children have smartphones, and this tells me parents are starting to get the idea that these devices can be a problem for children," Bowers said. "They are starting to see the reality of what is out there."
	SpectorSoft, focused on monitoring products for children since their inception in 1998, has released eBlaster Mobile for Android and BlackBerry phones. This software keeps track of all activity on these smartphones by monitoring and recording text messages, calls and Internet activity and then sending that information to the parent. It also has Geofencing capabilities to enable parents to better understand the whereabouts of their children through their mobile devices. Parents can create electronic location boundaries -- or fences -- that trigger an alert notification when their child enters or exits a pre-defined area with their mobile device. 
	eBlaster is designed for maximum parental convenience and child safety. The software can be downloaded from its website, www.spectorsoft.com , and then managed from any remote location. Plus, it has a GPS function reporting the exact location of the phone in the event of emergencies. Thu, 29 Dec 2011 00:00:00 EST The Great Flavored Milk Debate ( NewsUSA ) - A great debate has been building for the past five years in school districts across the country: Is flavored milk contributing to childhood obesity, and should it be taken out of schools?
	Facts, research and experts say no. Flavored milk contains the same nine essential nutrients as white milk, including calcium, vitamin D and potassium, three nutrients that children aren't getting enough of, according to the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.
	"On average, flavored milk accounts for only 2 percent of total calories and 3 percent of all added sugars in kids' diets. But studies show that schools see a severe drop in milk consumption when chocolate milk is taken away," says Alyssa Greenstein, a registered dietitian with the Dairy Council of Florida. "And the nutrients lost from not consuming enough milk aren't easy or affordable to replace."
	Research finds that low-fat chocolate milk is the most widely chosen milk option in schools, and despite the availability of white milk, children will turn to sodas and fruit drinks if flavored milk is removed from cafeterias. Sodas are the main source of added sugar in children's diets, and unlike milk, they offer no nutritional value.
	Many nutrition and health organizations -- including the American Heart Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Dietetic Association and the School Nutrition Association -- agree that flavored milk is a healthier alternative to soft drinks and a vital part of meeting the dietary needs of youngsters.
	"If children don't drink milk with lunch, it becomes almost impossible for them to consume the daily intake of calcium, vitamin D and potassium, which are nutrients of concern as it is," says Greenstein. 
	Drinking flavored milk is a small but significant contributor to a child's total milk consumption, and it doesn't mean youngsters neglect white milk. In fact, flavored milk makes up only 20-26 percent of kids' total milk intake.
	A recent survey of 1,000 moms discovered more than half opposed any school district decision to eliminate chocolate milk from the menu. In the past five years, milk processors nationwide have made significant nutritional changes in milk formulations. With 38 percent less added sugar, flavored milk is projected to contain, on average, just 31 calories more than white milk.
	To see more of the nine essential nutrients found in flavored milk, visit www.floridamilk.com . Tue, 27 Dec 2011 00:00:00 EST For Healthy Babies, Yum-Factor Matters ( NewsUSA ) - Taste matters when it comes to baby food .Erin Jarvis was getting desperate. Her 7-month-old daughter Autumn simply wasn't eating any store-bought food. Like so many moms and dads, Jarvis was worried her baby wasn't getting the nutrition needed for proper growth. Then she tried Baby Gourmet, a new arrival to the U.S. market and available at Walmart."As soon as we tried Baby Gourmet, Autumn made a sound like 'Mmm' and ate the whole pouch in one sitting," Jarvis says with a smile. "We've tried a lot of different brands, but this is the only one she now finishes every time."Baby Gourmet was created by a mom who, like so many others, was worried about her child's well-being. "When Findlay wouldn't eat, I was frantic that she wasn't getting the nutrition she needed to be healthy," says Jennifer Broe.That duel concern over nutrition and taste is why she started making her own baby food and founded Baby Gourmet to help other mothers feed their children healthy, organic food.With flavors like Old-Fashioned Apple Crisp, Vanilla Banana Berry Risotto and Sweet Potato Pie with organic cinnamon, Baby Gourmet offers taste, variety and nutrition.Each package of Baby Gourmet passes strict nutritional and food safety guidelines and passes all USDA and organic requirements. But Baby Gourmet goes a step further -- every recipe starts out in Broe's own kitchen and ends with a personal taste test at the manufacturer.Now, relieved moms everywhere are starting to express their personal joy. "My daughter is just over 1 year old and has refused absolutely all food for seven months. She tried the sweet potato pie today and ate the entire thing in two sittings. I was so happy," Abby Ferris recently shared on Facebook.Another mother, Kristen Ellison, also posted "I have a 12 1/2-month-old who has refused all solids until we tried the pear and garden greens. It literally brought tears because we have tried everything!"Mothers interested in putting Baby Gourmet to the test can find nine choices at Walmart. Find stores near you, and learn more at www.babygourmet.com . Sat, 24 Dec 2011 00:00:00 EST 5 Math Games to Overcome Algebra Woes ( NewsUSA ) - The votes are in: parents would rather teach their children how to drive or educate them about alcohol and drug abuse than help with algebra homework .
	But parents aren't alone in their terror of polynomial equations --  8th- and 9th-graders surveyed by the National Assessment of Educational Progress would eagerly give up Facebook and video games if it meant no more algebra.
	Education expert Dr. Richard Bavaria recommends parents treat algebra like reading, a fun chance for quality time with your kids.
	"We read with our kids on a fairly regular basis -- story time, bed time, read-aloud time. Why shouldn't we get the same enjoyment doing math with them?" says Bavaria, who has spent 40 years immersed in the education field.
	To encourage parents to enjoy helping their middle schoolers with their dreaded algebra homework, Bavaria suggests making math fun with the following games.
	1. Keep score. If your kids enjoy sports, board games or playing cards, emphasize the role of score keeper. When watching sporting events, play up "statistics manager" and help them track the stats of their favorite team or player. 
	2. Use manipulatives. Manipulatives are tangible objects allowing kids to visualize math problems. Tailor it to the interests of your child by using their preferred foods or framing arithmetic questions around their hobbies.
	3. Guess the number. Get your whole family to participate by each picking a number while everyone takes turns guessing. Ask smart, educational math questions, like "Can I count to your number by twos? Is it divisible by three?"
	4. Use real money. Teach kids to guess what coins are in your pocket by giving them clues, such as four coins that equal eight cents. If appropriate, go to your bank, and have the kids help balance your checkbook or fill in deposit slips. 
	5. Pick a "number of the day." Instead of a word of the day, choose a number. Challenge your kids to find several ways to reach the number by adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing. Reward them with little prizes for participating. 
	"We can't allow our math insecurities to get in the way of our kids' success. We can even estimate our kids' progress by using Fit4Algebra -- a free screener that measures how prepared students are for the subject," notes Bavaria. 
	Fit4Algebra, developed by tutoring service Sylvan Learning, is available online at www.Fit4Algebra.org . Learn more about navigating the math crisis at www.sylvanlearning.com . Mon, 19 Dec 2011 00:00:00 EST How to Soothe Coughs For the Whole Family ( NewsUSA ) - Families know that a hacking cough can echo throughout the home and prevent the entire house from getting a good night's sleep -- a big contributing factor to household stress. Plus, parents can be just as stubborn as children about taking the necessary cough medicine .According to the Mayo Clinic, the common cold is the number one reason why children miss school. Children catch six to 10 colds a year, while adults catch two to four, and coughing is a major symptom."In healthy people, coughing is a useful reflex that keeps our air ducts clear. But it also spreads germs and interrupts sleep. This further weakens the immune system, making us more vulnerable to a secondary infection," says Dr. Jim LaValle, clinical pharmacist and founder of LaValle Metabolic Institute. LaValle offers key advice for treating family coughs:Honey: Myth or truth? According to a study published in the "Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine," Grandma was right. A teaspoon of honey before bed seems to calm coughs so sufferers sleep better. Honey is rich in antioxidants and soothes irritation.Opt for expectorants rather than suppressants. Coughs should be treated with an expectorant to clear out mucus. An expectorant encourages the body to get rid of phlegm quickly. Suppressants, however, suppress the body's natural ability to heal itself.Read the labels. Manufacturers of decongestants, antihistamines and cough suppressants recently relabeled these medications, instructing parents not to use them in children younger than age four. The move followed a U.S. Food and Drug Administration panel that questioned the safety and efficacy of these medications' use in kids under six years old."One of the safest over-the-counter options I recommend is a cough syrup that combines honey and homeopathic medicines, Chestal," says LaValle. "It doesn't contain any of the ingredients in question by the FDA."From the makers of Oscillococcinum, a natural flu medicine relied upon by families worldwide, Chestal is safe for everyone ages two and up. Also available as Children's Chestal, the kid-friendly honey base soothes the throat while the blend of safe homeopathic medicines loosens congestion. For more info on relieving all types of common coughs, visit www.chestal.com . Wed, 14 Dec 2011 00:00:00 EST Who Is Teaching Our Teachers? ( NewsUSA ) - When schools are challenged with insufficient funds, outdated infrastructure and a wide gap in achievement levels between low-income and high-income families, the weight of responsibility falls heavily on educators. But who is educating our teachers? 
	"Most professionals receive ongoing training to keep their skills and knowledge fresh and applicable in a rapidly changing world. Continued professional development is even more important for teachers -- the men and women preparing today's students for college, career, and citizenship," explains Gene Carter, CEO of ASCD, an organization providing professional development to educators across the country and around the world. 
	Thanks to new teaching methods, materials, curricula and technology, education is evolving more quickly than ever before. Many teachers need support to continually update and improve their teaching. In the fast-paced digital age, teachers' skill sets must continue to grow for their students to see continued success.
	For example, according to Carter, the introduction of new common education standards is driving change in classrooms across the country. ASCD offers conferences, workshops, Webinars, online training and even on-site capacity building to instill new skills and better strategies that help educators work with these new standards adopted by states nationwide. 
	According to experts, ongoing professional development is critical to empowering educators to support the success of each learner. 
	"The key [to school improvement] is exemplary teaching along with stellar professional development that challenges, supports and inspires teachers to refine practices to improve student learning," notes Lynda Wood, associate superintendent for Southfield Public Schools in Michigan, about her experience with ASCD. 
	As Wood observes, highly qualified teachers are a must, but it's ongoing professional development that boosts student learning to a higher level of achievement and growth. 
	"Five years ago, we had extremely low student achievement levels, and we've essentially doubled the number of students who are meeting state standards. That speaks directly to the quality of professional development that's gone on," says Principal Patricia Reynolds from Queens after ASCD faculty implemented a long-term program at her school in New York. 
	Learn more about professional development at www.ascd.org . Fri, 9 Dec 2011 00:00:00 EST Tell 
    a friend about this page Use 
  of this site constitutes your acceptance of our Legal & Privacy Notice including 
  Cookies | Feedback | Advertise 
  on ooBdoo | Back To Our Home Page ooBdoo 
  is not associated with or endorsed by any of the linked sites on this page nor 
  are any of the linked sites on this page associated with or endorsed by ooBdoo. ooBdoo name, design and associated marks are trade marks (™) and / or 
  registered trade marks (®) of Inter-Change Media Ltd. Copyright 2012 Inte