< 0.05) in group I (66.6%) as compared to group II (22.2%). It is concluded that positive therapeutic suggestion may be considered as an alternative to antiemetic therapy. McLintock TT. Aitken H. Downie CF. Kenny GN. Postoperative analgesic requirements in patients exposed to positive intraoperative suggestions. BMJ 1990; 301(6755): 788-90. CONCLUSION--Positive intraoperative suggestions seem to have a significant effect in reducing patients' morphine requirements in the early postoperative period. Rapkin DA. Straubing M. Holroyd JC. Guided imagery, hypnosis and recovery from head and neck cancer surgery: an exploratory study. International Journal of Clinical & Experimental Hypnosis 1991; 39(4): 215-26. Postoperative hospitalizations for the hypnotic intervention group were significantly shorter than for the usual care group. Findings suggest that imagery-hypnosis may be prophylactic, benefiting patients by reducing the probability of postoperative complications and thereby keeping hospital stay within the expected range. Williams AR. Hind M. Sweeney BP. Fisher R. The incidence and severity of postoperative nausea and vomiting in patients exposed to positive intra-operative suggestions. Anesthesia. 1994; 49(4): 340-2. Patients who received positive suggestions suffered significantly less nausea and vomiting in the 24 h after surgery. Preoperative instruction for decreased bleeding during spine surgery spinal surgery patients who were given a preoperative suggestion to decrease blood loss at surgery had significantly less blood loss than a relaxation or a control group. 1986 Anesthesiology 65;A245 Bennett HL, Benson DR Kuiken DA. Pre and perioperative suggestion in maxillofacial surgery: effects on blood loss and recovery. Patients facing maxillofacial surgery who listened to a preop tape suggesting favorable outcomes including decreased blood loss, had a significant 30% less blood loss than controls, vs. only 9% less blood loss in a group than only heard these suggestions while asleep in the OR. 1995 Int J Clin Exp Hypn 43;3:284-94 Enqvist, B., von Konow, L., and Bystedt, H. Hypnotic control of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage: Case report of a woman resuscitated from shock with a positive lavage on her way to endoscopy, whose bleeding apparently stopped with hypnosis--script given. 1984 Am J Clin Hypn 27;1:22-5 Bishay, E. G., Stevens, G., and Lee, C. The use of hypnosis with hemophilia. A self hypnosis program for hemophilia patients at the Univ. of Colorado has decreased frequency and severity of bleeding episodes, as well as providing increased feelings of control and self-confidence. 1992 Psychiatr Med 10;4:89-98 LaBaw, W. Oncology Clinical trials of therapeutic hypnosis confirm its potential benefits. Christina Liossi, a psychologist at the University of Wales in Swansea, recently conducted a study of 80 cancer patients aged 6 to 16. She found that those under hypnosis experienced far less pain during treatments than control children, who simply talked to the researchers normally. Campbell DF. Dixon JK. Sanderford LD. Denicola MA. Relaxation: its effect on the nutritional status and performance status of clients with cancer. Journal of the American Dietetic Association 1984; 84(2): 201-4. Research has shown relaxation to be an effective measure in relation to pain, hypertension, and other conditions. These preliminary results now suggest that relaxation may also be effective in treating the eating problems of the person with cancer, leading to improvement in weight and performance status. Dahlgren LA. Kurtz RM. Strube MJ. Malone MD. Differential effects of hypnotic suggestion on multiple dimensions of pain. Journal of Pain & Symptom Management. 1995; 10(6): 464-70. Analysis of the simple-simple main effects, holding both group and condition constant, revealed that application of hypnotic analgesia reduced report of pain intensity significantly more than report of pain unpleasantness. Enqvist B. Bjorklund C. Engman M. Jakobsson J. Preoperative hypnosis reduces postoperative vomiting after surgery of the breasts. A prospective, randomized and blinded study. Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica 1997; 41(8): 1028-32. RESULTS: Patients in the hypnosis group had significantly less vomiting, 39% compared to 68% in the control group, less nausea and less need of analgesics postoperatively. Preoperative relaxation and/or hypnotic techniques in breast surgery contribute to a reduction of both PONV and postoperative analgesic requirements. Jacknow DS. Tschann JM. Link MP. Boyce WT. Hypnosis in the prevention of chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting in children: a prospective study. Journal of Developmental & Behavioral Pediatrics 1994; 15(4): 258-64. To study the effectiveness of hypnosis for decreasing antiemetic medication usage and treatment of chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting in The hypnosis group experienced less anticipatory nausea than the control group at 1 to 2 months post diagnosis (p < .02). Results suggest self-hypnosis is effective for decreasing antiemetic medication usage and for reducing anticipatory nausea during chemotherapy. Rapkin DA. Straubing M. Holroyd JC. Guided imagery, hypnosis and recovery from head and neck cancer surgery: an exploratory study. International Journal of Clinical & Experimental Hypnosis 1991; 39(4): 215-26. Postoperative hospitalizations for the hypnotic intervention group were significantly shorter than for the usual care group. Findings suggest that imagery-hypnosis may be prophylactic, benefiting patients by reducing the probability of postoperative complications and thereby keeping hospital stay within the expected range. Sullivan DS. Johnson A. Bratkovitch J. Reduction of behavioral deficit in organic brain damage by use of hypnosis. Journal of Clinical Psychology 1974; 30(1): 96-8. There was a highly significant correlation between hypnotic susceptibility and improvement on the dependent measures. Cardiac A controlled study of 32 coronary bypass patients showed that those taught self-hypnosis pre-operatively were more relaxed after surgery and had less need for pain medication (Journal of Cardiovascular Surgery, February 1997). Ashton C Jr. Whitworth GC. Seldomridge JA. Shapiro PA. Weinberg AD.Michler RE. Smith CR. Rose EA. Fisher S. Oz MC. Self-hypnosis reduces anxiety following coronary artery bypass surgery. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates the beneficial effects self-hypnosis relaxation techniques on patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. Crowther JH. Stress management training and relaxation imagery in the treatment of essential hypertension. Journal of Behavioral Medicine 1983; 6(2): 169-87. Results indicated stress management plus relaxation imagery and relaxation imagery alone were significantly more effective than blood pressure checks in reducing systolic and diastolic blood pressures during treatment and in maintaining diastolic blood pressure reductions during follow-up. However, no significant differences were found between the two treatment procedures. Clinical implications of these findings are discussed. DeBenedittis G. Cigada M. Bianchi A. Signorini MG. Cerutti S. Autonomic changes during hypnosis: a heart rate variability power spectrum analysis as a marker of sympatho-vagal balance. International Journal of Clinical & Experimental Hypnosis 1994; 42(2): 140-52. Preliminary results indicated that hypnosis affects heart rate variability, shifting the balance of the sympatho-vagal interaction toward an enhanced parasympathetic activity, concomitant with a reduction of the sympathetic tone. A positive correlation between hypnotic susceptibility and autonomic responsiveness during hypnosis was also found. Pediatric and Prenatal According to published results of clinical studies (Am J Clin Hypn. 2004 Apr), the use of hypnosis facilitates a more uncomplicated birth process. In a separate research study done by University of Florida counseling psychologist Paul Schauble, it was also found that women who learn hypnosis before delivering babies suffer fewer complications, need less medication and are more likely to have healthier babies than are women without hypnosis. Schauble's first study involved adolescents getting prenatal care at a public health clinic. A group of 20 patients who received hypnosis preparation were compared with 20 who were given supportive counseling and 20 patients in a control group who received only the standard prenatal care. None of the women who received hypnosis required surgical intervention in their deliveries, compared with 12 in the supportive counseling group and eight in the cont! rol group, he said. "Patients who are prepared for labor and delivery in hypnosis are more likely to absorb and benefit from information because they are in a relaxed, highly focused state," he said. Lambert SA. The effects of hypnosis/guided imagery on the postoperative course of children. Journal of Developmental & Behavioral Pediatrics. 1996; 17(5): 307-10. Significantly lower postoperative pain ratings and shorter hospital stays occurred for children in the experimental group. State anxiety was decreased for the guided imagery group and increased postoperatively for the control group. This study demonstrates the positive effects of hypnosis/guided imagery for the pediatric surgical patient. Kohen DP Relaxation/mental imagery (self-hypnosis) for childhood asthma: behavioural outcomes in a prospective, controlled study Australian Journal of Clinical & Experimental Hypnosis 1996 May; 24(1): 12-28. Results included: (a) fewer emergency room visits in the experimental group; (b) less school missed in the experimental group compared to the traditional control group and to the waking suggestion group; (c) no difference in psychological evaluations between groups; and (d) surprising findings regarding hypnotic and hypnotic-like experiences among subjects. Addiction In a research study on Self-hypnosis for relapse prevention training with chronic drug/alcohol users, (Am J Clin Hypn. 2004 Apr;46(4):281-97), individuals who played self-hypnosis audiotapes "at least 3 to 5 times a week," at 7-week follow-up, reported the highest levels of self-esteem and serenity, and the least anger/impulsivity, in comparison to the minimal-practice and control groups. Manganiello AJ. A comparative study of hypnotherapy and psychotherapy in the treatment of methadone addicts. American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis 1984; 26(4): 273-9. Significant differences were found on all measures. The experimental group had significantly less discomfort and illicit drug use, and a significantly greater number of withdrawals. At six month follow up, 94% of the subjects in the experimental group who had achieved withdrawal remained narcoticfree. Fibromyalgia Haanen HC. Hoenderdos HT. van Romunde LK. Hop WC. Mallee C. Terwiel JP. Hekster GB. Controlled trial of hypnotherapy in the treatment of refractory fibromyalgia. Journal of Rheumatology 1991; 18(1): 72-5. Results: These feelings showed a significant decrease in patients treated by hypnotherapy compared with physical therapy, but they remained abnormally strong in many cases. We conclude hypnotherapy may be useful in relieving symptoms in patients with refractory fibromyalgia. HIV Ruzyla-Smith P. Barabasz A. Barabasz M. Warner D. Effects of hypnosis on the immune response: B-cells, T-cells, helper and suppressor cells. American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis. 1995; 38(2): 71-9. Significant alteration of the immune response as measured by B-cells and helper T-cells was shown only for highly hypnotizable patients exposed to hypnosis. Top of p