<http://www.mommyappelseed.com/pregnancyblog/?p=622>; rel=shortlink
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Age: 2
Server: YTS/1.19.8

What to do with: Pregnancy Leg Cramps! | Baby Bump Blog - Mommy Appelseed Maternity Fashions FAMILY MEDICAL BEAUTY 411 KIDDOS CELEBS DEALS FASHION SHOP What to do with: Pregnancy Leg Cramps! Posted on April 4th, 2011 Leg cramps are a sudden tightening of muscles, which can cause intense pain. It is not uncommon to experience leg cramps during pregnancy, particularly in the third trimester. According to Danforth’s Obstetrics and Gynecology , almost half of all pregnant women suffer from muscle spasms in their calves, with cramping more frequent during the evening. No one really knows why women have increased leg cramps during pregnancy. Speculation is that your leg muscles are tired and stressed from carrying extra weight. As you gain more weight, your leg cramps may increase. It could also be caused by pressure from the growing baby and expanding uterus being placed on the nerves and blood vessels that go to your legs. There is some speculation that too little calcium can cause leg cramps. There are no good studies that support these theories at this time. However, it is a good idea to increase your calcium intake during your pregnancy. This nutrient is important to your baby’s development and helps keep your own bones strong and healthy. There are a few things that you can do to treat leg cramps or prevent them from occurring. Try one or more of the following interventions to help relieve or prevent your leg cramps. To try and prevent leg cramps you can take these precautions: Avoid standing or sitting with your legs crossed for long periods of time since it can restrict your blood flow. Take a warm bath before bedtime may help to relax your muscles. Stretch your calf and leg muscles a few times a day, especially before bedtime. (Avoid pointing your toes) Rotate your ankles and wiggle your toes when you are sitting to increase circulation. If your doctor allows it, try to take a walk every day. Lie on your left side to improve your circulation. Elevate your legs when possible. Wear supportive stockings. Drink plenty of water to stay hydrated. Magnesium has been proven to be beneficial in the treatment of leg cramps. If your doctor allows it, take a supplement in addition to your prenatal vitamin. Here are some tips to relieve leg cramps: If, despite all your precautions, you do get a leg cramp you should immediately straighten your leg, heel first, and gently flex your toes back toward your shins. If someone is with you, have them massage the muscle that is cramping. This may hurt at first, but it will ease the spasm and the pain will gradually go away. Warming the muscle with a warm towel or hot water bottle or heating pad may help relax the cramp. You can also try walking around, or standing on a cold surface. Some women have found that Tylenol or Acetaminophen is helpful in relieving the pain. Leg cramps usually go away on their own without any medical treatment. But if your muscle pain is constant and not just an occasional cramp — or if you notice any redness, warmth, swelling or tenderness in your leg you should call your health care provider. Bookmark on Delicious Digg this post Recommend on Facebook share via Reddit Share with Stumblers Tweet about it Subscribe to the comments on this post Related posts: GO GREEN! During Pregnancy Pregnancy Super Foods Bleeding During Pregnancy Send article as PDF Posted in MEDICAL | Tagged as: pregnancy leg cramps , pregnancy support , Pregnancy Tips | 3 Comments 3 Responses to What to do with: Pregnancy Leg Cramps! Buffalo Chiropractor says: April 6, 2011 at 1:42 pm Http://www.GardenofHealthBuffalo.com This can be a very stressful time in a women’s life. I have dealt with many very similar cases. The hormone relaxin has a role to increase ligament pliability to allow the pelvic the flexibility needed for childbirth. The unfortunate part is that the relaxin also affects the ligaments of the lumbar spine. With the developing child within the mother’s abdomen abnormal stress is applied to the spine which leaves the mothers low back susceptible to misalignments. As stated above I have treated many women successfully while in their 3rd trimester. Google the term “piriformis muscle.” You may be able to relieve the symptoms be stretching this muscle. If your still experiencing this type of discomfort after trying to stretch the piriformis muscle you want to consider a consultation by a chiropractor in your area. You will be so happy you did. pyramid backlinks says: November 2, 2011 at 11:25 am Hi just thought i would tell you something.. It is twice now i have landed on the website in the last 2 days searching for completely unrelated things. Spooky or what? Administrator says: November 2, 2011 at 7:05 pm I think it’s a sign What were you searching for? Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Sign Up for Email News Sponsored Links Ads Copyright © 2012 - Proudly powered by WordPress. "S