
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 05:18:10 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
Cache-Control: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Tue, 08 May 2012 05:18:10 GMT
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.11

VPX - Muscle Nitrous 240Ml -- VitaGlo Login or Register Browse By Brands Home > R-Z > VPX Sports > VPX - Muscle Nitrous 240Ml VPX - Muscle Nitrous 240Ml PRICE: $32.47 Induce radical growth by fueling intracellular mechanisms with MUSCLE NITROUS! The compounds found in MUSCLE NITROUS will produce freaky 
                                            pumps, enhance stamina, reduce lactic acid, jack up strength, and increase nutrient uptake into muscle cells. Within days MUSCLE NITROUS 
                                            will have your muscles looking rounder, fuller, and swollen to the max. GET YOUR PUMP ON! NOW IN AN RTD!!! Two key ingredients fuel the radical power of MUSCLE NITROUS: 1. Magnesium Peroxide The earth is composed of over 100 elements, the most abundant of which is oxygen. Oxygen is essential to the survival of all living matter.
                                            We can live without food for weeks and without water for days, but take away our supply of oxygen for just 4 minutes and death is almost 
                                            assured. For athletes a lack of oxygen will severely hamper performance by causing an increase in lactic acid in the muscles and a loss of energy. 
                                            Without sufficient oxygen, your muscles will reduce glucose into lactate and release hydrogen ions into the muscles, leading to pain, 
                                            cramps, and fatigue. Magnesium is important as a necessary factor in ATP production, nerve cell health, and the reduction of asthma and migraines. Normalizing 
                                            magnesium levels in the body has also been shown to have a positive effect on muscle pain and cramping as well. The enhanced tissue oxygenation that the magnesium peroxide provides is helping lead the way to a new frontier in performance enhancement! 2. AKG and Nitric Oxide Nitric Oxide (NO) is known in scientific circles as the muscle's "cell signaling" molecule. It plays a role in oxygen delivery, blood 
                                            flow, glucose uptake, power output, nutrient delivery, and muscle growth. Boosting levels of this compound in the blood can aid the 
                                            muscle-building process tremendously. A specific form of the natural amino acid arginine, known as AKG (arginine alpha-ketoglutarate), can 
                                            help mediate the chemical reaction necessary in increasing the output of NO and the myriad of benefits that come along with it. Add MUSCLE NITROUS to your arsenal of bodybuilding supplements and turn your body into a turbocharged muscle building machine! Boosts Nitric Oxide levels Improves Strength Oxygenates Muscles Enhances Stamina Reduces Muscular Pain and Fatigue Fuels ATP Production Induces Mind Blowing Pumps Increases Uptake of Muscle Building Nutrients Recommended Use: Use 10cc(ml) to 20cc(ml) everyday including non-training days. Shake well prior to use. With the enclosed measuring device, dispense 5cc(ml)
             of MUSCLE NITROUS into mouth and swallow solution. Repeat procedure upon awakening and 45 minutes prior to training. Always wait several 
             hours between dosages and drink 8-10 glasses of water daily. MUSCLE NITROUS can be synergistically stacked with Zero Impact MRP is 
             recommend to fulfill increased protein requirements. E-mail Us sa