
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 13:54:06 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hot flushes - causes and solutions for hot flushes during menopause A.Vogel A.Vogel World Alfred Vogel The fascinating life of Switzerland's most celebrated herbalist Stories Read the stories of some of our most important products Philosophy Natural medicine, the importance of our food and fresh herb tinctures Production Learn about fresh herb extraction, quality control and research Uniqueness of our herbs Why not all herbal remedies are the same Condition search Product search Advice Helpline Contact us for answers to all your herbal health questions Herbal health booklets Download advice on common health problems Frequently asked questions The most commonly asked questions on our range A.Vogel Newsletter Sign up to receive email updates on natural health Healthy News Magazine Packed with information on good health Health checks Enlarged prostate check Enlarged prostate (BPH)? Try our simple & easy to use questionnaire How healthy are you? Check the condition of your general health and immune system How flexible are you? Simple questionnaire to assess the health of your muscles & joints Stockist List home / health / menopause / hot flushes Hot flushes What are hot flushes? Hot flushes are perhaps the most common symptom of the menopause experienced by 75% of women. There are other causes of hot flushes, including hot flushes in men, but when the term is used, it most often refers to symptoms experienced during menopause in women. Menopause hot flushes can be described as a feeling of warmth or heat in the body. They are sometimes accompanied by feelings of nausea or dizziness and may be felt on their own (ie. a feeling of heat) or accompanied by, or cause sweating. Hot flushes. Hot flashes. What is the difference? The term 'hot flushes' is used in the UK by women going through the menopause . In the USA, the term 'hot flashes' is used. Both mean exactly the same thing - the most common symptom experienced by women during the menopause. Menopause hot flushes & sweats Hot flushes during menopause may be felt all over the body but most commonly affect only the face and neck. Flushes make women feel 'hot' with reddening of the skin. Hot flushes often accompany, or contribute as one of the causes of sweating during the menopause. As hot flushes and sweating during the menopause are such prominent symptoms, frequently occuring together, many women going through the menopause use the terms 'hot flushes' and 'menopausal sweats' interchangeably. What can I expect? Hot flushes associated with the menopause can occur at any time. Some women experience these as the main symptom of menopause. Others sail through the menopause without problems, experiencing hot flushes at the time of their last period. For a few, symptoms can continue for years beyond the end of menstruation. Experience however does show that a quick transition from regular, normal periods to no periods can be one of the causes of hot flushes becoming more prominent. Menopause hot flushes and sweats can happen at any time of the day (often at the most inconvenient or worst possible moment). They can occur as often as several times an hour - not good for that silk blouse. The number of episodes experienced each day by an average woman varies greatly. Each hot flush can last a few seconds or up to several minutes. Why do they occur? The root cause of hot flushes is not clear. What is known is that the part of the brain that senses and controls body temperature (and other body functions) is the hypothalamus. During the menopause, oestrogen levels fall. Although not fully understood, scientists think that this fall in oestrogen causes a glitch in the way the hypothalamus senses body temperature, making it think that you are too hot. This causes a response designed to cool the body down. More blood goes to the skin (one of the causes of hot flushes and reddening of the skin) and sweat glands start working (the menopausal sweat). Menopause hot flushes and the environment One of the causes of hot flushes during the menopause is known to be changes in the external environment. For example, moving between indoors and outdoors with big differences in temperature. This is the reason women find that symptoms can be more common in the summer, or when entering a well-heated room during cold weather. Other triggers or causes of menopause hot flushes include stress, anxiety, heightened emotions and even eating spicy foods. Hot flushes pose no real medical danger. However, when occurring at night and accompanied by night sweats , they can disturb your sleep and that of your partner. This in turn, can cause you to feel moody, affect concentration and energy levels. Other reasons for getting hot flushes Hot flushes can also be experienced by men who obviously are not going through the same menopause stages as women. Although the menopause is the first amongst the causes of hot flushes, there are other reasons why you might experience this symptom. These include: Stress and anxiety Drug medication Certain health problems If you are suffering from hot flushes and do not feel that the menopause is the cause of these symptoms, you should speak to your doctor for advice. Treatment of menopausal hot flushes Alfred Vogel said that 'Good health is about more than taking remedies'. If you are going through the menopause, there are a number of steps you can take to help yourself. As menopause symptoms can be so wide ranging, the best way to prepare yourself for 'the change' is to look at all aspects of your life: Eat a well balanced, wholesome diet and don't miss meals - low blood sugar levels can be one of the causes of hot flushes! Ensure that you have regular bowel movements (at least one a day) - constipation can be a major factor in triggering hot flushes! Drink plenty of plain water - at least a litre and a half. This will help to hydrate you and alleviate hot flushes. Take regular exercise - a brisk half hour walk a day can work wonders! Deal with stress. Stress causes the release of chemicals that promote hot flushes! Add Sage tablets to the mix as a treatment to provide relief for the excessive sweating that is so much of the menopause for many women. Related articles The menopause Menopause symptoms Menopause tips Night Sweats Most searched Menopuse Sleep problems Sore throat Cold sores Detox Best sellers Prostasan ® Menoforce ® Echinaforce ® Bronchosan Venaforce ® Menoforce &reg' Sage tablets 30 tabs € 15.50 One-a-day tablet for menopausal hot flushes and night sweats. Also available in 90 tablet size. More info back up print A.Vogel blog Search by condition Search by product Company Contact Us A.Vogel Helpline Contact our experienced advisers Monday-Saturday, 8.30am-5.00pm Or email your question: Email us About Alfred Vogel Read the fascinating story of Switzerland’s most celebrated naturopath and herbalist Visit the World of A.Vogel You are here: home / health / menopause / hot flushes Copyright 2011  A.Vogel  - Privacy -