Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dental Procedures - Teeth Procedures For Health And To Look Great Home Ask The Dentist Submit Your Dental Story Blog Dental  Procedures Keep Your Teeth Healthy and Looking Great A lot of Dental Procedures are performed by dentists  in order to help take care of your teeth. If you are having dental problems,  you can visit a dental care provider and let him or her make a recommendation  as to which procedure would be best for your specific case. However, it is still important for you to know the  basics of what these dental procedures are. This way, you will be aware of how  they work to treat your specific dental problem. The  Most Common Dental Procedures The most common dental procedures include: Orthodontics Dental  Bridge Dentures Root  Canal Dental Treatment Dental Sealants 1. Orthodontics Orthodontics is the specialized branch focused on  preventing or correcting teeth irregularities that affect its alignment, bite  problems or malocclusions, and jaw problems. Braces, which are placed on the  teeth to fix the problem, are very common because they can correct several  problems. A patient may be referred to an orthodontist by his or her general  dentist for such treatments. Some  specific problems that can be corrected by orthodontics include misaligned  teeth, crowded teeth, crooked teeth, missing teeth, extra teeth, either an  overbite or an underbite, jaw joint disorder, and incorrect position of the  jaw. Anyone, at any age, can avail of braces to correct any of these problems,  although ideally, the best age for bracing is between 10 and 14 years old. 2. Dental  Bridge Another one of the most common dental procedures is the  dental bridge. This is a dental appliance that replaces missing teeth, and  since missing teeth is rather common especially among adults, bridges are quite  in demand. There are three types to choose from, namely the traditional bridge,  the cantilever bridge, and the resin bonded bridge. Dental  bridges are cemented in the place of the missing teeth and usually last up to  ten years with proper care and maintenance. The bridge consists of three  different components that bridge the gap caused by the missing teeth. Then it  is topped off with a crown, which imitates the appearance of actual teeth. 3.  Dentures Getting dentures is another option to remedy missing  teeth. Unlike bridges, dentures can be removed by the patient. It is made from  acrylic resin and sometimes, using metals. Dentures can be either complete or  partial, the former replacing all the teeth and the partial replacing certain  missing tooth or teeth. Dentures have to be removed and brushed daily for good  maintenance. There  are also two types of dentures depending on the length of recovery time. There  are conventional dentures that allow around four to eight weeks of recovery  time following the extraction of the teeth, while there are also immediate  dentures that place the dentures into the mouth immediately after the  extraction so that the dentures fit into place during the healing. 4. Root  Canal Dental Treatment Root canal is another one of the most common dental  procedures around. This treatment is used to treat problems related with the  dental pulp, which refers to the area within the teeth that contains the nerves  and blood vessels. The dental pulp can be damaged in many ways, including tooth  decay caused by cavity or a heavy blow to the teeth or jaw area. Root canal treatments are performed by endodontists. It  is important to seek root canal treatment if there are dental pulp problems to  prevent the spread of the infection to the bones. Root canal requires that the  affected tooth be removed so that the dental pulp area can be accessed and  removed. The area around then has to be cleaned before it is filled with a  permanent filler that prevents further problems. A crown is then placed on top. If  you experience any pain in biting, chewing, and when drinking hot or cold  drinks, see a dentist to check whether you need root canal treatment. Your  dentist may refer you to an endodontist. 5.  Dental Sealants Dental sealants are plastic  films that effectively prevent tooth decay by covering the surfaces of the  teeth towards the back to the mouth. By covering up the surfaces on the back  teeth, you can prevent food debris or plaque to build up in the areas that are  hard to reach using a toothbrush. Dental  sealants are highly recommended for children who have new permanent teeth  because such teeth are still vulnerable or susceptible to cavities and tooth  decay. Getting  Dental Procedures Done If you think you have any problem that can be  corrected by any of these procedures, make sure to go to a dentist immediately.  However, do not get immediate treatment unless there is a dental emergency. Try  to look for a dentist that can give you a good price that’s within your reach.  If you carry a dental plan membership or a dental insurance policy, choose a  dentist that honors discounts for your dental procedures. Back from Dental Procedures to Dental Phobia Back from Dental Procedures to Dental Insurance Plans Privacy Policy Copyright dentalinsurancecare.com. Protected by Copyscape - do not copy. Related Articles Dental Equipment – The Facts You Must Know - Dental Equipment refers to any form of appliance or object used to provide dental care. These equipments are available from a lot of providers to cater to the growing dental health care industry. Careers in Dentistry - Be a Dental Professional - There are many careers in dentistry that dental students can take up once they finish formal education. Dentistry is a highly appraised field; it is an important field that helps maintain people’s health. Patterson Dental - Leading the Dental Industry to the Cutting Edge - Patterson Dental is an overall dental supplies and services provider. Its main business can be divided into three main areas. Best Insurance Dental Insurance Best Dental Insurance Plan Affordable Plans Affordable Dental Insurance Dental Plans Dental Health Care Individual Dental Insurance Dental/Teeth Care Dental Hygiene Dental Assistant Salary Cosmetric Dentistry Veneers Dental Implants Cost Free Dental Implants Orthodontic Insurance Full Coverage Dental Insurance Dentist Finder Find Dentists Teeth Pain/Phobia Dental Phobia Tooth Pain Insurance Terminology Dental Insurance Plans Dental Insurance Companies Metlife Dental Insurance Guardian Dental Insurance Aarp Dental Insurance Delta Dental Insurance Dental Insuranc