Status: 200
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Welcome to The Doctors TV Show OK Member Help | Join the Community Remember me Today's Show This Week Archives DVDs Transcripts Browse Topics Ask Our Doctors Audience Tickets Dr. Travis Stork Dr. Jim Sears Dr. Lisa Masterson Dr. Drew Ordon Ask Our Doctors Video Library Request Procedure Message Boards Blogs Popular Recent People Register Be On The Show Send A Letter Technical Help Local Listings Audience Tickets Ask Our Doctors kelbee doesn't have much here yet. Stay tuned. Profile Comments Add Your Comment! Log in to leave a comment or Create an account TheDoctorsBoard2 April 07, 2009 From the show's transcript: STORK: Everyone has ear wax. And on today's PRESCRIPTION FOR HEALTH by our friends at CVS Pharmacy, we are going to explain what exactly it is and why you have it and when to clean it out. Ear wax is actually nature's way to help protect our ear canal. It starts as a fluid secreted by glands inside the ear and becomes ear wax when it becomes a mixture of skin, hair and debris from shampoos and dirt. Having a little bit is normal. Ear cotton swabs sometimes cause the wax to become impacted and block the ear canal. This can cause hearing loss, ringing in the ear, as well as vertigo. There are home treatments to help better remove ear wax. Try over-the-counter softening drops. Warm mineral oils may be put into the affected ear and then drained out after a few minutes. If you have a lot of wax buildup, consult a doctor. They may be able to prescribe medicine. » All comments » Comments RSS Loading recent content... kelbee My Details Member since: 04/02/09 profile views
(1139) My Friends My recent comments To : TheDoctorsBoard2 On: The "Vagina Show" (Post) Will there be any re-runs for the show? I would lik... To : TheDoctorsBoard1 On: The "Vagina Show" (Post) Hi, I missed the last part of the show on 4/2 (Home Health Ris... To: doctorbax Hi, I missed the Dr.'s order today (4/2) because I had to be o... Home | General Info | Episodes | Tell Us Your Story | Meet the Doctors | Procedure Cam | FAQ | Technical Help | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Advertise with Us | Dis