
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 02:33:47 GMT
Server: Apache
Content-language: en, en
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Delta Dental of Wisconsin - Community Involvement Search Site Map Contact Us Community Involvement Login Here Help Username New users register here Password Forgot your password? I am a ... Broker Dentist Employer Subscriber Home Employers Dentists Subscribers Brokers About Us Our Purpose Charitable Contributions HIPAA Career Opportunities News Media Current Location: Home > About Us > Community Involvement April 14, 2012 Delta Dental of Wisconsin's Statement of Purpose expresses our commitment to improving the oral health of the people of Wisconsin. Part of that commitment is expressed through the business we're in: studies show that having dental benefits greatly increases access to dental care, and that in turn leads to better oral health. But we also have a heritage of charitable support for many worthwhile programs and organizations. We have made contributions to literally hundreds of groups in recent years. In line with our mission and purpose, we place a special emphasis on helping those organizations or causes that have a direct link to improving oral health. If your charity or activity shares that purpose, we may be able to help. For more information, contact Heidi Fischer at 800-236-3713 or by e-mail at hfischer@deltadentalwi.com. To view a brochure about our support of charitable causes that promote oral health, click to view the Beyond Benefits Brochure (pdf) . Below are some of our most significant initiatives: Marquette University School of Dentistry: Delta Dental of Wisconsin has made grants in excess of $2.5 million in recent years to the Marquette University School of Dentistry. Marquette University has Wisconsin's only School of Dentistry. A new facility for the dental school was opened in August 2002, featuring state-of-the art equipment and technology. Delta's contributions are helping to overcome the growing shortage of dentists in Wisconsin and improve the skills and productivity of currently practicing dentists. Healthy Smiles Program of Special Olympics Wisconsin: Delta Dental has joined as a partner with Special Olympics Wisconsin to sponsor the Healthy Athlete's Program. The program provides basic health care screenings and testing to Special Olympics athletes at no cost to the athletes. Statistics have shown that people with cognitive disabilities often do not receive the health care attention they need. Through the Healthy Athletes program, Special Olympics provides a unique and effective way to offer screenings for individuals who might otherwise be left without such services. Seal A Smile: Delta Dental helps fund the Seal a Smile Program, a statewide project intended to prevent dental decay and promote oral health as part of a person's total health by increasing the number of dental sealants on children's teeth through community-based and school-based sealant promotion initiatives. Working together, the Division of Public Health, the Children's Health Alliance of Wisconsin (CHAW), the Wisconsin Dental Association, County Public Health Departments, School nurses, technical college students and faculty and many other groups plan and develop supportive materials that can be used to establish a sealant program in local areas. Smile Day: The Greater Milwaukee Dental Association (GMDA) presents Smile Day at the Discovery World Museum in downtown Milwaukee. Delta Dental provides financial support. Smile Day is a day of dental health related games and entertainment for families. Ministry Dental Center: Delta Dental teamed with Ministry Health Care and CAP Services of Portage County to establish a dental clinic in Stevens Point exclusively committed to serving the needs of low-income patients in central Wisconsin. P.A.N.D.A.: P.A.N.D.A. is an acronym for Prevent Abuse and Neglect through Dental Awareness. Sponsored by Delta Dental and supported by a coalition of public and private organizations, P.A.N.D.A. is an educational program aimed at helping dentists and dental office personnel to recognize and report suspected cases of child abuse and neglect. Copyright © 2012 Delta Dental of Wisconsin. All Right