
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 21:23:45 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

distance -  DOObiz DOO.biz Lekomat Marketplace - distance Main distance Most popular: distance Most linked: distance Most respected: distance Acupuncture Chinese Herbal Medicine - Medical Automat Lekomat Laryngitis Treatment and Medicomat Acupuncture Chinese Herbal Medicine - Home Cure Solutions. The Theory of Yin and Yang is one such philosophy. It is said to date back nearly 6,000 years to the third or fourth millennium B.C. and is attributed to an enlightened philosopher named Fu Shi. The basic premise of yin and yang is the notion that the only constant factor in natural phenomena is universal change. In other words, nothing remains the same; no disease, no condition, no emotion, no treatment or diagnosis, absolutely everything is in a constant state of flux and, therefore, subject to the laws of change. 

Waist discus intervertebralis extrusion is that the annulus fibrosus between two vertebras cracks and nucleus pulposus flows out from it and scabs, which oppresses the nerve and causes waist disease. By stimulate the acupoints use the machine, dredges the meridians and collaterals, decrease the inner discus intervertebralis pressure and decrease outer discus intervertebralis pressure, restore annulus fibrosus, then disease will be alleviated or eliminated. Acupuncture Points Acid Reflux and Acupuncture Chinese Herbal Medicine - Lekomat Care. Each channel has a number akuta?aka, each with its exact location and function ode?enu. Position and distance between the measures akuta?aka Chinese measure - canoe. In contemporary Chinese Medicine is described more than 500 akuta?aka. Akuta?ke used in the diagnosis of disorders, some tenderness to palpation akuta?aka indicates the existence of disturbances in the energy. They mainly correspond to the so-called. trigger points, which are important for the treatment of disorders and muscle systems tetiva.Tako?e changes in appearance or color akuta?ke above may indicate the type of disorder. 

LEKOMAT monitor for home treatment for rheumatism in the modern principle of acupuncture without needles without pain, and improve the feel, but after a day or two. It cures headaches, migraines, depression, high blood pressure, poor circulation, diabetes, dizziness, rheumatism, spondylosis, sciatica, stomach ulcers, obesity, insomnia, menstrual problems. In a few minutes automatically reduces pain in the stomach, back, neck and legs. Stiff Neck Pain and Acupuncture Chinese Herbal Medicine - Home Therapy Medicobot. There are a few related procedures that fall into the range of Acupuncture treatments. The first is Electro-Acupuncture. This is the using of very small electrical impulses through the Acupuncture needles. This method is generally used for analgesia (pain relief or prevention). The amount of power used is only a few micro amperes, but the frequency of the current can vary from 5 to 2,000 Hz. 

According to the theory of traditional chinese medicine, human ear is just like a reverse foetus. Each human organ has its corresponding acupuncture point on the ear. When certain organ has pathological changes, the bioelectric current of the corresponding acupuncture point on the ear will change at an early stage. By detecting the bioelectric current pathological change, an early diagnosis can be done. 

Athletic injuries can be treated and prevented by massage and acupuncture, a therapy often overlooked by Western medicine. Massage is a highly developed specialty in Chinese medicine. 

Visit the site http://lekomat.org , it lets you expirience pain and disease relief in the comfort of your own home. Medicomat a fully automatic apparatus for home cure, alternative therapy, pain treatment and healthcare at home . 