
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 04:05:35 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.37 (Unix) PHP/4.4.4 mod_ssl/2.8.28 OpenSSL/0.9.8d
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture for Headaches and Head Pain Meet the Staff Site Map Contact Us The ABCs of TCM & Acupuncture Find an Acupuncturist Ask an Acupuncturist Find a School Extended Search Acupuncture Calendar Classified Advertising Industry News Discussion Forum Needles, Supplies & Equipment Herbs, Nutrients, Supplements Seminars, Education & Services Quick Links News Current Issue Previous Issues Author Guidelines Editorial Calendar Columnists Acupuncture Links FAQs Herbs & Botanicals Vitamins, Minerals and Dietary Supplements Newsletters To Your Health AT News Update AT Deals & Events Browse Editorial Topics AT News Update e-mail newsletter Subscribe Today Local Guides E-mail to a Friend | Printer Friendly Version | PDF Version Acupuncture for Headaches and Head Pain What are headaches? What types of headaches are there? Simply defined, a headache is a pain in the head due to some cause. Headaches 
        may result from any number of factors, including tension; muscle contraction; 
        vascular problems; withdrawal from certain medications; abscesses; or 
        injury. Headaches fall into three main categories: tension-type, migraine and 
        cervicogenic. Tension-type headaches are the most frequent. Patients who 
        endure tension-type headaches usually feel mild to moderate pain on both 
        sides of the head. The pain is usually described as tight, stiff or constricting, 
        as if something is being wrapped around your head and squeezed tightly. While migraines affect far fewer people than tension-type headaches and 
        have a much shorter duration, their symptoms are much more severe. They 
        typically affect women more frequently than men, with pain that usually 
        occurs on one side of the head. Migraines can be so severe that they can 
        cause loss of appetite, blurred vision, nausea and even vomiting. Cervicogenic headaches are the most recently diagnosed type of headache 
        and are musculoskeletal in nature. They may be caused by pain in the neck 
        or spine that is transferred to the head. Many times, cervicogenic headaches 
        go undiagnosed because of their recent classification. Who suffers from headaches? Nearly everyone will suffer a headache at some point in time. They are 
        one of the most common physical complaints that prompt people to treat 
        themselves or seek professional assistance. Some estimates say that up 
        to 50 million Americans suffer from sever, long-lasting, recurring headaches. 
        While most headaches are not necessarily symptomatic of another condition, 
        they can be very distracting and account for significant amounts of time 
        lost from work. What can acupuncture do for headaches? Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has a very consistent and philosophically-based 
        framework for headache etiology, physiology, diagnosis and treatment strategy. 
        Acupuncture, as an effective treatment modality, has been applied to headaches 
        from the earliest beginnings of TCM. Acupuncture is not only effective for migraine headaches, but also works 
        very well with tension headaches, cluster headaches, post-traumatic headaches, 
        and disease-related headaches that might be due to sinus problems, high 
        blood pressure or sleeping disorders. The greatest advantage of acupuncture 
        over Western medicine is that it does virtually no harm. Some medications 
        can have serious side effects and can (in some instances) actually lead 
        to patients experiencing a "rebound" headache. Unlike synthetic 
        drugs, acupuncture has virtually no side effects, and the procedures for 
        treating headaches are much less invasive with acupuncture than with surgery. References Carlsson J, Fahlcrantz A, Augustinsson LE. Muscle tenderness in tension 
          headache treated with acupuncture or physiotherapy. Cephalalgia 1990;10:131-141. Hesse J, Mogelvang B, Simonsen H. Acupuncture versus metoprolol in 
          migraine prophylaxis: a randomized trial of trigger point inactivation. J Internal Med 1994;235:451-456. Vincent CA. A controlled trial of the treatment of migraine by acupuncture. Clin J Pain 1989;5:305-312. Vincent CA. The treatment of tension headache by acupuncture: a controlled 
          single-case design with time series analysis. J Psychosomatic Res 1990;34:553-561. Zhang L, Li L. 202 cases of headache treated with electroacupuncture. J Tradit Chin Med 1995;15(2):124-126. Other Resources: Click 
          here to read more articles on Acupuncture for Headaches and Head Pain Ask an Acupunctureist about Acupuncture and Back Pain Find an Acupuncturist Near You AT Deals & Events e-mail newsletter Subscribe Today Alternative Health News Positional Release Self Care for Soreness and Other Pains If your patients are anything like mine, they will report to you that 
there is commonly a degree of discomfort, soreness or stiffness a day or
 so following manual treatment no matter how gentle or appropriate that 
treatment might have been. CAMTC Honors CA State Senator Lou Correa In closing out a busy 2011, the California Massage Therapy Council 
(CAMTC) honored California State Senator Lou Correa with its Legislator 
of the Year award at the final 2011 Board of Directors meeting. Practice What You Preach and Go Back to Massage School For all of us, the massage school experience is (or was) 
transformational in nature. As students, we were feeling "new" things, 
literally and figuratively, every day. Our wonder at and reverence for 
the human body and all of its systems grew by the hour. Re-Framing the Idea of Referring New Clients to Other LMT's Recently, I called a licensed massage therapist to find out about the 
possibility of getting a session. If I liked her work, I told her, I'd 
be interested in working with her as my regular LMT. The first thing she
 said was that she wasn't doing massage now. Think Outside the Box and the Spine Over the years, understanding and treating the extremities has moved to the forefront of my practice. Integrating extremity analysis and adjusting into your patient protocols can make you a more skilled practitioner. Seeing Your Massage Clients Through a New Lens I've worked with people young and old with complex medical conditions 
since 1979 when I began my career as an occupational therapist. Conservative Care Beats Medication for Neck Pain A study published in the Jan. 3, 2012 issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine suggests conservative care 
consisting of either spinal manipulation or home exercise is more 
effective than over-the-counter and prescription medication for 
relieving acute and subacute neck pain. Unlocking the Secret to a Thriving Massage Practice Whether you own a thriving massage practice, you just want to develop a 
base of recurring customers, or you're just starting to get clients this
 article will reveal the little known secret to have more joy from your 
work, get more clients. Giving a Big Thumbs Up for Healthy Thumbs The thumb is one of the most practical and necessary implements of the 
body. It is the first self-comforting tool to be used, often seen thrust
 into the mouth of a fetus in the womb. Freeing the Heart, Part 2: Equalizing the Pressure Cardiovascular disease does not happen overnight. It is a progression 
that evolves over decades and genetic pre-disposition can accelerate 
this progression dramatically. Hip and Thigh Pain: The Tensor Fascia Latae Connection Have you ever had a patient with hip and lateral thigh pain that did not
 respond to your traditional treatment? Would it be helpful to know 
which muscles to double check that refer pain into the hip and lateral 
thigh? Expanding Your Massage Therapy Practice An e-mail survey conducted in December 2011 found that many massage 
therapists are missing out some potential revenue streams by not 
offering any additional products or services to their clients. Paging Dr. Frankenstein "Upper Cervical Techniques are considered Experimental or Investigational because current scientific evidence has not shown it to be safe, scientifically plausible, or effective. Target Your Marketing for Success When asked what clients they want to work with, many massage therapists 
answer, "Everybody." When you try to market to everybody, that's called 
"blanket" marketing. We Get Letters & E-Mail Conservative Care Instead of Surgery? Not Always Possible; Ditch the Philosophy Except for Its Historical Significance. Treatment Checklist for Plantar Fasciitis, Part 1 Plantar fasciitis (PF) is inflammation of the plantar fascia or arch 
tendon of the foot. It is an overuse injury causing heel pain which may 
radiate forward into the foot. Plantar fasciitis
 can also be known as a heel spur, although they are not strictly the 
same. News in Brief Western States Announces New Degree Program; FCP Acknowledges Top Two Corporate Sponsors. A Massage Protocol for Peripheral Neuropathy My last article in the October 2011 issue focused on diabetic peripheral neuropathy and I want to stress the importance of reviewing that information before proceeding on to this protocol. Challenging Sacred Cows, Round Two I want to clear up something before I go forward. First, an esteemed 
colleague and visionary of our profession wrote to me asking if I did 
not believe in science because of my comment, "While I am not a fan of 
evidence-based medicine..." Foods Consumed by the Healthiest People, Part 4: Ikaria, Greece The other day I read a couple of nutrition articles in a chiropractic 
publication that covered topics I have previously addressed in detail. Entrepreneur or Employee? Which is Right for You? There is no denying the massage and wellness industry is here to stay. 
People are becoming far more proactive with their health care and are 
looking to alternatives to heavy medications and a costly doctor visit. Chiropractic Around the World: WFC Quarterly Country Reports The following reports are reprinted with permission from the World 
Federation of Chiropractic's latest Quarterly World Report (December 
2011). Impacting Children: CranioSacral Therapy and Pediatrics Working with children is an art as well as a science. Using CranioSacral
 Therapy (CST) on a child can be especially gratifying as a qualified 
CST practitioner can facilitate significant changes that can positively 
improve the quality of a child's life. New Rules for Contemporary Chiropractic Marketing Hold off on the tar and feathers! Of course, everyone with a spine and a functioning nerve system needs chiropractic care. The planet would be a better place if every man, woman and child received regular spinal adjustments. Natural Support for Sexual Health: Effective Herbal Supplements In the normal aging process, the decline in sex hormone levels and 
number of functioning nerve endings in the genitalia region often 
contribute to a reduction in sex drive, arousal capabilities, climax and
 intensity of pleasure-full sensations. Massage Therapy Reduces Low Back Pain Non-specific low back pain is one of the most common muscular-skeletal issues reported by patients/clients seeking pain relief. Massage therapy is recognized in clinical practice as an effective treatment. Get Optimal Energy with Nutritional Self Care It is our experience that massage therapists are some of the most 
giving, compassionate people on the planet. While we might be 
exceptional at caring for others, many massage therapists put themselves
 last when it comes to their own self-care. The Facts About Fevers Anything that suggest the slightest thing is wrong with a child will 
cause concern in a parent. A fever, for example, is one of the primary 
reasons parents will call their child's pediatrician. Dealing with Fibromyalgia It is estimated that between two to four percent of the population are 
now suffering from fibromyalgia, including Irritable Bowel Syndrome and 
TMJ. Perhaps our massage school education did not include how to 
successfully deal with fibromyalgia. Normal Radiographic Differences Between the Adult and Pediatric Cervical Spine There are several normal anatomical differences between the adult and the pediatric cervical spine. This is a brief review of the main radiographic features that one should be aware of in order to avoid confusing normal differences with pathologic findings. The Next Best Thing to Being There Right now, as you are reading this column you are likely adding 
inflection to my words and possibly imagining what I look like speaking 
based on the photograph above – one that is admittedly a few years old. WIBB Exclusive: Who Runs the Show? Staffing issues abound.  By far, it is the number one complaint of 
employers and the reason I am most contacted for consulting.  It goes 
something like this.  You have a successful practice and are turning 
away business. Careful Coding: With or Without Myelopathy Clinicians must be on their toes when it comes to the spelling, 
pronunciation and definition of different anatomical and health care 
terms. Many terms have similar spelling and pronunciation, and thus can 
be easily confused. The Death of the CCE Cartel After several organizations testified in favor of the CCE being renewed as the accrediting agency for chiropractic colleges, some of those organizations issued less-than-accurate communications implying that the CCE was victorious in its effort. To report inappropriate ads, click here . Archives News Current Issue Previous Issues Previous Polls Advertising Advertiser Resource Center Marketing Resource Center Editorial Editorial Resource Center Just For Students Acupuncture Schools Free Positions Wanted Posting Where To Practice? Important Links Editorial Topics Link To Us Acupuncture Links The ABCs of TCM & Acupuncture Herbs & Botanicals Vitamins, Minerals and Dietary Supplements Media Guide Acupuncture Today Media Guide Member Services Classified Advertising Acupuncture Calendar Acupuncture Directory Discussion Forum Reader Services Receive The Print Publication Update Your Mailing Address Other Links About Us Contact Us Meet The Staff News Update Subscribe Unsubscribe Update E-mail Current Issue Deals & Events Subscribe Unsubscribe Current Issue To Your Health Subscribe Unsubscribe Update E-mail Current Issue Archives Policies Privacy Policy User Agreement Other MPA Media Sites Toyourhealth.com Chiroweb.com Chirofind.com Dynamicchiropractic.com Dynamicchiropractic.ca DCPracticeINSIGHTS.com Massagetoday.com Nutritionalwellness.com Naturopathydigest.com Chiropracticresearchreview.com 