
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Set-Cookie: UK-T1-PRD-PROD-AXAPPPHEALTHCARE=R1889070504; path=/
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 20:11:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Connection: close

Whooping cough | Medical fact sheet | AXA PPP healthcare About us Contact us Our blogs Follow us: Intermediaries Specialists Home UK Personal UK Business International Health info Health info Fact sheets Home Health info Fact sheets Whooping cough Whooping Cough What is it? What are the complications? Can it be prevented? What is it? Whooping cough is a very infectious illness affecting the bronchial tubes and lungs.  It is a disease predominantly of childhood although adults can also be infected and can spread infection to small infants, particularly those under the age of 3 months and those who have not been immunised.  The illness is caused by a bacteria called Bordetella Pertussis . The incidence of pertussis has fluctuated over the last 25 years, reaching epidemic proportions in 1977-79 and 1981-83, coinciding with public anxiety about pertussis vaccination in relation to brain injury and the consequent fall in vaccination rates.  Fortunately public confidence returned in the 1990s and by 1995 the level of vaccinations given was 94% with the lowest number of notified cases ever recorded. How does it occur? The illness is transmitted from person to person through infected mouth and throat mucus during coughing.  Commonly several children within the same household may contract the illness.  The bacteria enter the air passages and damage the lining of the windpipe and main air passages in the lung.  This results in an excess of mucus production in the airways giving rise to the characteristic symptoms. Each case of pertussis first becomes infectious approximately 7-14 days before the symptoms first develop (the incubation period). What are the symptoms? The first symptoms to appear are a marked watery discharge from the nose accompanied by a slight cough and fever (known as the catarrhal phase). This lasts 7-14 days.  The illness is at its most infectious at this stage and the symptoms are so non specific as to be confused with any minor viral infection.  The chances of it spreading to others will almost certainly have occurred before the diagnosis is made. The cough gradually becomes more severe and violent and characteristically occurs in so called paroxysms (known as the paroxysmal phase).  This lasts 2-4 weeks.  The paroxysms of coughing initially occur at night and then become more frequent during the day; there may be 5-50 such episodes daily.  In some young infants the whoop does not occur. Typically, a paroxysm consists of a prolonged series of coughing episodes. during which the child's face can become blue.  This is usually followed by a sudden indrawing of breath which produces a distinctive "whoop".  Paroxysms of coughing usually end in vomiting.  Over the ensuing weeks, the paroxysms become less frequent and less severe until they disappear completely. The final or convalescent phase can last 2-4 weeks but may continue for many months.  During this time the cough is still present but gradually decreases in frequency and severity. What are the complications? Whooping cough can be complicated by pneumonia and, fortunately, in very rare cases by brain damage due to lack of oxygen supply to the brain.  These complications are most usually confined to very young infants under six months of age. How is it diagnosed? The diagnosis is made largely on the history of catarrhal cough coupled with the easily detectable and characteristic whoop.  A history of prior contact with another case locally and an absence of immunisation history against the disease makes diagnosis even more probable. Bacteriological swabs can be taken from the nose or throat secretions and the bacteria grown in the laboratory.  This is unreliable and not done routinely in the doctors surgery.  Blood tests may show a rise in the white cell count but this is not diagnostic of pertussis. What is the treatment? Most patients can be treated at home.  In the early (infectious) catarrhal phase it is preferable that the child be kept isolated from other children until the fever subsides.  Keep the child in bed until this occurs. During the coughing phase in a baby, the foot of the cot can be raised and the baby placed face down with the head turned to one side to help drain the lungs.  Older children will prefer to lean forward during coughing bouts.  A cool mist humidifier may help soothe the child's cough and help loosen bronchial and lung secretions. Encourage plenty of fluids.  There are no special dietary restrictions. If recognised early, the condition can be treated with an antibiotic prescribed by the family doctor.  This is called erythromycin and may shorten the duration of the illness and make it less infectious to others. When the signs of infection have decreased, the appetite has returned, and the child appears alert and well, then the child can return to school or nursery.  This may take several weeks. Can it be prevented? The Vaccine This is a liquid containing killed whooping cough bacteria which when administered will cause the body to develop immunity to whooping cough by developing antibodies to the illness.  It is usually given along with diphtheria and tetanus as a triple vaccine in three separate doses within the first 6 months of life thereby creating enough active immunity to give lifelong protection. Recommendations The vaccine is given as part of two course of primary immunisation with diphtheria and tetanus.  It is administered by injection either superficially under the skin or by deep intra muscular injection from two months of age and in three successive doses at intervals of two months Adverse reactions Swelling and redness at the site of injection. This usually disappears and is of no consequence. Crying and fever can often occur following pertussis vaccination when given as part of the primary immunisation in early infancy along with the diphtheria and tetanus components.  Paracetamol liquid can be given to reduce the fever and help relieve the temporary discomfort More severe neurological conditions including inflammation of the brain (known as encephalitis) and convulsions can occur very rarely in children who were previously normal prior to immunisation. [According to the National Childhood Encephalopathy Study (NCES) the vast majority of these children suffered no permanent harm and the number of cases found after three years of intensive research was extremely low. Contraindications If the child is suffering from any acute illness vaccination should be postponed until recovery is complete. A previous history of severe local or general reaction to a preceding dose. For example, an extensive area of redness and swelling which becomes hardened and extends widely around the point of the injection.  A general reaction would include a spike of fever above 39.5 C within 48 hours of administration. NB. A personal or family history of allergy is NOT a contraindication to immunisation nor are other neurological conditions such as cerebral palsy or spina bifida. Search our other fact sheets Search now or view the full index Our products We offer a range of products to meet your budget or cover needs: Private health insurance Children's medical insurance Cash plan Dental insurance Cancer and heart cover The AXA global group AXA is a world leader in financial protection and wealth management, with major operations in Western Europe, North America and the Asia/Pacific area. Other AXA UK sites AXA home insurance Swiftcover Car Insurance AXA Wealth AXA Investments AXA Life AXA UK Contac