Content-Language: en

Department of Health and Ageing - Diabetes Go to home page Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Search Home Ministers The Hon Tanya Plibersek MP - Minister for Health The Hon Mark Butler MP, Minister for Mental Health and Ageing, Minister for Social Inclusion, Minister Assisting the Prime Minister on Mental Health Reform The Hon Warren Snowdon MP Minister for Indigenous Health The Hon Catherine King MP Parliamentary Secretary for Health and Ageing Current Issues For Consumers Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Ageing Conditions and Diseases Education and Prevention Ethical Issues Gene Technology Health products and medicines Medicare Benefits Mental Health National Men's and Women's Health Pharmacy Public and private healthcare Rural and Regional Health Services For Health Professionals Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Aged care Conditions and Diseases Education and Prevention Ethical Issues Gene Technology Health products and medicines Health Thesaurus Health Workforce Medicare Benefits National Men's and Women's Health Public and private healthcare Rural and Regional Health Services Treatment and Techniques About us Annual Reports Budget Calendar of Events Consultations Departmental Records Health Jobs History Legislation & Policy Our Organisation Our Role Tenders and Grants Flexible Funds - program consolidation Freedom of Information Social Media Media Centre APEC 2007 Australian Health Ministers' Conference Council of Australian Governments (COAG) Departmental media releases and speeches Fact Sheets Health Warnings Media release and speech archive Media release subscriptions Ministerial Media Releases, transcripts and speeches National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) media releases Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) media releases Government responses to enquiries National Health & Hospitals Reform Commission Programs & Campaigns Agreements Awards eHealth Programs & Initiatives Campaigns and Related Websites Publications, Statistics & Resources Publications Research & Statistics Current Issues Current Issues Jobs Consultations Tenders and grants Annual reports Budget FOI A-Z index A-Z forms Site map Links Contact us Calendar Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Ageing Conditions and Diseases Chronic disease Asthma Cancer Cardiovascular Disease Diabetes Musculoskeletal conditions - arthritis and osteoporosis Communicable Disease Control Communicable Diseases Information Other Health Issues Education and Prevention Ethical Issues Gene Technology Health products and medicines Medicare Benefits Mental Health National Men's and Women's Health Pharmacy Public and private healthcare Rural and Regional Health Services Listen to this page Home > For Consumers > Conditions and Diseases > Chronic disease > Diabetes Diabetes Diabetes mellitus was endorsed as a National Health Priority Area at the Australian Health Ministers' Conference in 1996 in recognition of the high prevalence of the disease in Australia, its impact on morbidity and mortality, and its potential for health improvements through prevention and treatment programs. In this section: Diabetes Work of the Australian Government on diabetes Diabetes publications Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes Program What is diabetes? How common is diabetes? Further information What is diabetes? Diabetes is a chronic disease characterised by high levels of glucose in the blood.  Blood sugar levels are controlled by insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas.  Diabetes occurs when the pancreas is unable to produce enough insulin, or the body becomes resistant to insulin, or both. There are three main types of diabetes: Type 1 diabetes is an auto-immune disease where the body's immune system attacks the insulin producing cells of the pancreas.  People with type 1 diabetes cannot produce insulin and require lifelong insulin injections for survival.  The disease can occur at any age, although it mostly occurs in children and young adults.  Type 1 diabetes is sometimes referred to as juvenile onset diabetes or insulin dependent diabetes . Type 2 diabetes is associated with hereditary factors and lifestyle risk factors including poor diet, insufficient physical activity and overweight or obesity.  People with type 2 diabetes may be able to manage their condition through lifestyle changes; however, diabetes medications or insulin injections may also be required to control blood sugar levels.  Type 2 diabetes occurs mostly in people aged over 40 years old, however, the disease is also becoming increasingly prevalent in younger age groups 1 . Gestational diabetes occurs during pregnancy.  The condition usually disappears once the baby is born, however, a history of gestational diabetes increases a woman's risk of developing type 2 diabetes later in life.  The condition may be managed through adopting healthy dietary and exercise habits, although diabetes medication, including insulin, may also be required to manage blood sugar levels. Top of page How common is diabetes? The 2007-08 National Health Survey estimated that there were 818,200 people (4% of the population) that had been diagnosed with diabetes (excluding gestational diabetes) in Australia 2 .  The National Health Survey relies on self-reported data, and therefore the prevalence of diabetes may actually be higher, as those with undiagnosed diabetes are not included in the prevalence estimate.  Of those who reported having been diagnosed with diabetes, 88% reported having type 2 diabetes, 10% reported having type 1 diabetes, and 2% did not know which type of diabetes they had 3 . Based on self-reported data, the prevalence of diabetes in Australia is increasing; between 1995 and 2007-08 the number of people reporting to have diabetes increased from 407,900 4 to 818,200 5 .  This substantial increase has been attributed to more people developing the disease, but also people with diabetes living longer and improved detection of the disease 6 . Further information For information on the signs and symptoms of diabetes or advice about diabetes management, please refer to the following websites: Health Insite Diabetes Australia Juvenile Diabetes Research Fund (JDRF) Top of page 1 Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 2008: Diabetes Australian facts 2008 2 Australian Bureau of Statistics 2009: 2007-08 National Health Survey 3 ibid 4 Australian Bureau of Statistics 1997: 1995 National Health Survey 5 Australian Bureau of Statistics 2009: 2007-08 National Health Survey 6 Colaguiri S, Borch-Johnsen K, Glumer C & Vistisen D 2005.  There really is an epidemic of type-2 diabetes. Diabetologia. 48(8): 1459-63 Page last reviewed: 12 April 2011 Page last modified: 14 September, 2009 Top of page Acronyms and Glossary Subscription Feedback Accessibility Privacy Disclaimer Copyright Senate Order Contracts Site Help Other Languag