
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 09:28:38 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: 3e9c852ef642d531483af0e2cfdcadcb
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 09:28:38 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treating Back Pain With Spinal Decompression Therapy Back Pain Details Your guide to Back Pain Relief! Back Pain Relief Guide Sitemap Contact Us Menu Causes Of Back Pain Back Pain Myths And Facts Back Pain Diagnosis And Symptoms Back Pain Treatment Back Pain Prognosis Low back Pain Low Back Pain Relief Living With Back Pain Articles Back Pain Myths Back Pain Surgery Backpain Overview Causes Of Back Pain Diagnosis Of Back Pain Living With Back Pain Lower Back Pain Prevention and Treatment Prognosis of Back Pain Symptoms Of Back Pain Treatment of Back Pain Upper Back Pain Popular Articles Chronic Back Pain Between Shoulder Blades My Lower Back Pain Back and Stomach Pain Back Pain: A Common Problem Chronic Back Pain Axial Back Pain Are You Living With Pain In The Back, Foot And Ankle? Athletes May Suffer From Low Back Pain Back and Neck Pain Constant Back Pain Search Treating Back Pain With Spinal Decompression Therapy Spinal decompression therapy is a non-surgical procedure used to treat back pain and injuries involving the spinal disc. This therapy has been approved by the FDA as an alternative treatment for back pain . Spinal decompression therapy is a great choice for those who are dealing with back pain as a result of bulging discs, herniated discs, pinched nerves and sciatica. How does it treat back pain? In many cases, back pain is a result of the spine asserting excessive pressure on the discs. There are several factors that can cause the spine to exert greater pressure. Some of these factors include poor posture, acute stress and bad body mechanics. These factors can cause the vertebrae to compress your discs. This in turn leads to increased pressure on your discs, which eventually results in back pain. Spinal decompression therapy deals with these compressed discs to alleviate back pain. It gently decompresses the discs, which eases out the pain. The process Since spinal decompression therapy is a non invasive therapy, the process involved is pretty much simple. Here in, the patient is strapped to a table. As this table moves, a distraction force is applied to the targeted area of the spine. This distraction force can be easily increased or decreased using a computerized control. The force is applied on the spine between periods of relaxation. As a result of the force applied, the spine is slightly pulled up, which elongates the spine. The elongation of the spine creates vaccum between the vertebrae, which puts the disc back into shape. In some cases, spinal decompression therapy may be accompanied by pain. Here in, heat or cold therapy may also be used along with the therapy to offer immediate relief from the pain. A single session of spinal decompression therapy lasts for about 30 to 40 minutes. The number of sessions required may vary from one person to another depending upon the severity of the condition. However, ideally 28 sessions are required that are spread across a period of one to two months. Pros and cons Perhaps, the most prominent advantage of using the spinal decompression therapy is that it is safe. Since it is a non-surgical procedure, the risk of side effects is relatively lesser. On the downside, this treatment can be quite time consuming. This means that you will have to wait for a considerable amount of time before you actually get to see the results. If you are considering this treatment to get rid of back pain, then make sure that you opt for a professional practitioner only. Related Articles Cervical Disc Replacement... Take Vitamins To Relieve Back Pain... Heat Therapy For Low Back Pain... Persistent Back Pain Gives Tension!... Early Detection of Aortic valve stenosis, Early Tr... Degree Of Scoliosis... Exercises For Sciatica... Exercises For Relieving Sciatica... Persistant Back Pain Is Treated Effectively!... Treatments for Spinal Stenosis... Free Herbal Remedies For Sciatica... Pulmonary Stenosis, Severity may require Treatment... Spinal Stenosis Treatment... Passive Treatments For Low Back Pain... Different Forms of Scoliosis Treatment... Cervical Collar... Understanding Back Pain Treatments... Natural Remedies For Lower Back Pain... Lower Back Pain Exercise... Magic of Massage Chair... Latest Articles Do Regular Exercise To Cure Back Pain A Visit To The Spa Can Help You Combat Back Pain Basics Of Back Pain Before You Get A Back Massage Avoid Back Pain When Gardening Fifteen Remedies For Back Pain Relieve Back Pain Through Reflexology How To Avoid back pain while cycling? What Is Discogenic Back Pain? Back Stretches For Pain Relief Copyright © 2006 - 2012 Back Pa