
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 02 May 2012 05:19:29 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://beautyandhealthlivingonline.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hemorrhoids May 2, 2012 Posts Comments Beauty and Health Living Online Home Helpful Hints For Your Problems With Hemorrhoids April 11, 2012 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment With a gentle touch, you may be able to prevent injury to exposed hemorrhoids by getting them back inside. You want to make sure that the hemorrhoids aren’t too big though, because if they are, then this might not work and can hurt. This can prevent any clothing rubbing them and can protect them from injury. If the hemorrhoids are too large or painful, refrain from trying this, as it could cause further injury. To relieve the pain of hemorrhoids, consider dropping a few pounds. Being overweight causes more hemorrhoid issues. Intense pressure on your lower abdomen that is caused by excess waste and weight adds to the pressure on the veins around your anus. A good weight loss plan for someone suffering from hemorrhoids also includes plenty of high fiber foods. Remember, don’t be tempted to speed your weight loss or deal with your hemorrhoids by using laxatives. Understanding hemorrhoids will help you be less concerned about them and learn how to treat them. If you or a loved one regularly suffer from hemorrhoids, you should learn all you can about them. Essentially, it is the swelling, and thus over-sensitivity, of some nerve endings that creates a painful hemorrhoid. Hydrating yourself is a good way to prevent hemorrhoids. Drinking eight glasses of water each day can help keep stools soft and loose. If you are having issues with hemorrhoids, add a touch of lemon to the water that you drink. Lemon has a lot of soothing properties, which can lessen the irritation that you may get from hemorrhoids. Drink a lot of lemon water if your hemorrhoids are irritated. If you regularly struggle with hemorrhoids, there are plenty of methods of relief available. It is recommended you use a sitz bath a few times each day, for approximately 10 minutes or so each time. Also, applying a cold compress can offer relief. Ointments and creams can do a lot to help alleviate any pain you have with hemorrhoids. You can get a lot of these creams at drugstores without a prescription. While this will not entirely eliminate hemorrhoids, it will offer relief from pain and itching. Limit use to seven days. Tomato slices can visibly reduce your hemorrhoids. There’s a great deal of acid in tomatoes, and if a piece of the acidic plant is applied to a swollen vein, the swelling may go down significantly. If you combine this method with a nutritious diet, you should be able to successfully fight off hemorrhoids for years. It’s possible to push hemorrhoids back into the rectum on your own. This method isn’t good for severe hemorrhoids, or for people who get squeamish, but if you’re willing to be very careful, it’s possible to push a minor hemorrhoid back in. Hemorrhoids receive better protection inside the body and are not as susceptible to irritation or bleeding when located there. Strangely enough, plain water can effectively treat and calm hemorrhoids. Soak the area in slightly warm water often. Try this at least 10 minutes each day. Also apply cold compresses. You may want to consider a portable sitz bath, available in all drug stores. Now that you gained a better idea of what causes hemorrhoids, and what you can do to treat them and prevent them, you will be better equipped to deal with them. Make sure you use the tips listed above to treat your hemorrhoids properly. Thank you for reading this article. You can find more articles on our Beauty and Health Living Online Home Page . Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Great Tips For Dealing With Painful Hemorrhoids March 14, 2012 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment There is one surprisingly simple step you can take to prevent hemorrhoids. For example, don’t hold on when you have the need to have a bowel movement. If you wait too long, your stool will become dehydrated and cause more strain when it passes. Straining is the leading cause of hemorrhoids, so it’s best to avoid this scenario if you can. Tomatoes can help reduce hemorrhoids. The acid from the tomato can reduce the swelling that has occurred in the vein. This method can keep your hemorrhoids away if you also adopt a healthy diet. If you aren’t eating many vegetables and fruits, you should make sure to take fiber supplements. Spread supplements out over the day and drink plenty of water. This will help to prevent any discomfort. Waiting a long time on the toilet, until a bowel movement passes, can make hemorrhoids worse. The sitting position required to use western toilets strains hemorrhoids, which causes additional pain and makes them take longer to heal. Wait for the natural urge to arise before you head for the toilet. Nine out of ten times, hemorrhoids are to blame. However, you may wish to verify this with your physician. Blood in your stools, or from the rectum, could be sign of a more serious condition, such as cancer. Have your problem diagnosed by a professional to ease you mind. If you doctor confirms that you are suffering from hemorrhoids, he or she can advise you about the treatment options. Chicken pox and hemorrhoids are just about the same because they both cause you to scratch at them. Scratching them could cause them to bleed and become infected. A torn hemorrhoid can be very painful, and can lead to a serious bacterial infection. Water is a surprising and soothing treatment for hemorrhoids. Even just a ten minute soak every day can do wonders for your hemorrhoids. The firm application of a cold wet cloth to the area can help as well. Ingredients for a sitz bath can be purchased from drugstores and at many grocery stores. The swollen veins and resulting pain that accompany hemorrhoids is believed to benefit from consuming vitamin A. Carrots, either whole or in juice form, contain loads of vitamin A, so eating more of them may prove very beneficial for your condition. Don’t wait by sitting on the toilet before you’re expecting a bowel movement. While some people like to read and relax on the toilet, they may actually be straining without thinking about it. Make sure when you sit on the toilet, you are ready to go. As you battle your hemorrhoids, it is important to prevent irritation and inflammation caused by perfumes, dyes and other ingredients found in common personal products. These products will sting and make the swelling and itching even worse. At the start of this article, some of the basics regarding hemorrhoids was covered, as well as information regarding hope for treatments. It is rare that surgery is required, and most treatments can be done from the privacy of your home. The more a person knows about treating hemorrhoids, the less he or she will have to endure. Thank you for reading this article. You can find more articles on our Beauty and Health Living Online Home Page . Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Difficulty With Hemorrhoids? Try These Relieving Ideas February 14, 2012 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment Drinking Aloe Vera juice can help you with bowel movement in cases of difficulty passing stools. You can combine apple juice with it if the taste is a problem for you. Always read the product label and follow its instructions scrupulously. Drinking excessive amounts of Aloe Vera is likely to cause stomach pain and discomfort. Using a paste made from water and powdered myrrh can reduce the amount of swelling and pain. Use equal parts pure water and myrrh. About a teaspoon of each should be enough. Place the paste onto the hemorrhoids, and allow it to remain there for 30 minutes. This myrrh is a product you can find in the health and cosmetic aisles. Manually push hemorrhoids back in the anus when possible While not everyone is up for this process, with some preparation and care you can push smaller hemorrhoids back into the anus. Internal hemorrhoids are far less exposed to irritation and, as a result, are likely to heal faster with less pain. Most hemorrhoids are caused by straining the sphincter muscles and others near them. If you deal with recurrent hemorrhoids, you should reconsider how your day-to-day activities affect your pain levels. A few foods that can help treat hemorrhoids are nuts and seeds that don’t contain salt, fruits, whole grain breads and cereals. You will be more comfortable the better you eat. Consume sufficient amounts of water. Few tips are as effective and affordable as this one! Constipation is a leading cause for hemorrhoids, and water is a great solution for that problem. Additionally, your body will be internally cleansed. Drink roughly eight glasses of water each and every day. Olive oil is a very efficient treatment for hemorrhoids. It may sound odd, but olive oil is proven to relieve some of the swelling associated with hemorrhoids. This reduces itching. However, only use olive oil to treat external hemorrhoids. Do not use it internally. If you are a hemorrhoid sufferer, take stool softeners or laxatives on a regular basis. Pushing too hard during a bowel movement is not only painful, but it can open the door to a myriad of other medical issues. Use a hemorrhoid cream sparingly. Creams do not actually alleviate any swelling or irritation, but they do numb the pain associated with hemorrhoids. If you plan on using the cream beyond seven days, seek medical advice from your physician first. Do not use any products in a manner for which they were not intended. Follow all directions carefully to avoid exasperating your condition. Drink plenty of water if you suffer from frequent hemorrhoids. Remaining well-hydrated will ensure that your stools remain soft. You’re also going to want to limit and gauge how much caffeine and alcohol you consume as this can hurt you. Add more fiber to your usual diet if you have hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids can be caused by too much straining as your body eliminates stools from its bowels. The fiber helps with your bowel movements so that you are not constipated. This, in turn, will decrease your chances of getting hemorrhoids. If the pain and inflammation is becoming severe, soak in a bathtub filled with warm water whenever possible. Fill the tub between six and twelve inches high with water. Doing so should help strengthen blood flow and alleviate some of the pain. Lift your knees into an upright position. Don’t be afraid to stay in the tub until the water cools. Remember these tips the next time you need some relief. The better information available, the better treatment you can get, and hemorrhoids aren’t an exception. By taking action and keeping positive, you can make this problem a thing of the past! Thank you for reading this article. You can find more articles on our Beauty and Health Living Online Home Page . Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Top Tips To Help You Cope With Hemorrhoids January 17, 2012 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment A cream, applied sparingly, could be of assistance. Creams do not actually alleviate any swelling or irritation, but they do numb the pain associated with hemorrhoids. Consult a doctor if you feel the need to use creams for more than a week. Excessive use of these products can lead to more painful hemorrhoids. Some claim that fresh tomato slices can decrease the size of existing hemorrhoids. Since the juice of tomatoes is quite acidic, applying a slice directly to hemorrhoid swelling can restore skin Ph, which will soothe the area and reduce inflammation. You may find that doing this technique, combined with a balanced diet, is a great way to provide lasting relief from hemorrhoids. If hemorrhoids are bothering you, try eating more fiber-rich foods. They can be caused by excessive straining when going to the bathroom. Fiber helps your body produce softer stools and prevents constipation. You will no longer have to strain excessively when evacuating your bowels. This, in turn, will decrease your chances of getting hemorrhoids. Though it may take some time, hemorrhoids can be lessened and healed gradually with supplements of vitamins and minerals. Supplements and vitamins fill the gaps that your current diet might not be filling. In addition to regular supplements and vitamins, a specialized supplement called Venapro can help to relieve the pain and discomfort of hemorrhoids. Olive oil is an at home remedy you can try for hemorrhoid treatment. Olive oil is reported to have an anti-inflammatory effect and can reduce the swelling when applied to hemorrhoids. However, it should only be used externally. Do not use olive oil to treat internal hemorrhoids. Consider enhancing your hygiene habits, and the products you use in the bathroom, in order to help prevent painful external hemorrhoids flareups. Opt for softer toilet tissue that will not leave residue or paper behind, and keep a box of moistened wipes in the bathroom for use after each and every bowel movement. For those having trouble adding more fiber to your diet, consider a fiber supplement. The powder variety is easy to add to water or juice. They are sold at your local drug store. Having one of these drinks every day will make you less likely to get hemorrhoids. Carrying a cushion around with you may make you a little self conscious, but it will provide relief from hemorrhoids. While a cushion may make you feel slightly ridiculous, it will relieve some of the pressure and pain you feel when sitting. It is especially useful in a car where you are constantly sitting in one position. One remedy to lessen hemorrhoid pain and inflammation is to apply a paste consisting of powdered myrrh and water. Mix one teaspoon each of water and powdered myrrh into a thick paste. Put some of the paste on your hemorrhoids, and leave it on for about 30 minutes. Health stores and beauty stores will usually carry the myrrh powder. If your hemorrhoid is still small and not very painful, push the hemorrhoid gently into your body. This will prevent a lot of friction and inflammation as you will not be sitting directly on them. Keep in mind to always be gentle. Never attempt to push too forceful or you could make your hemorrhoids worse. As previously stated, hemorrhoids are a common ailment. These people are generally clueless as to how to treat them, though. This is due to the fact that many don’t have advice for dealing with this condition. Use the advice in the above article to rid your life of hemorrhoids forever! Thank you for reading this article. You can find more articles on our Beauty and Health Living Online Home Page . Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Get Rid Of Your Hemorrhoids With These Great Tips December 20, 2011 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment Stress and anxiety are two things that you should avoid at all costs if you want to reduce the symptoms of hemorrhoids. Try to limit any conflicts in your relationship or at work to lessen the chance of becoming stressed out. This will soothe your skin tone and improve your overall health. If your goal is to keep hemorrhoids at bay, make sure that you are adequately and properly hydrating your body! In order to keep your stools lose and soft, make sure that you are drinking at least eight glasses of water and other non-alcoholic beverages each and every day. Hemorrhoids can be surprisingly painful for such an invisible issue. One of the best ways to prevent it is to drink lots of water. Proper hydration ensures that your stool will be soft, and if it is soft, you will not have to strain as hard during defecation. Drink at least 6 cups of water a day. Your diet can have a significant impact on whether or not you are more prone to suffering from hemorrhoids. Certain foods and drinks can be especially irritating as they pass through the bowels. A diet that is filled with overly spicy foods or strong beverages like coffee, soda, and alcohol will put you at greater risk of forming hemorrhoids. Some everyday products work wonders for hemorrhoids, and using something as simple and affordable as apple cider vinegar can help you to heal hemorrhoids. The acid in the vinegar will help you in the digestion of your food, and this will ultimately create smaller, looser bowel movements that will not cause your veins to become irritated. Standing for long periods of time without moving can cause hemorrhoids to form. The same problem can occur if you are sitting for hours on end and not getting up for a break. Try alternating between sitting and standing if you are not able to get up and walk around during the day. If you do have hemorrhoids, be careful of how hard you are wiping and how often you are doing so. Wiping too hard can irritate the hemorrhoids and could even cause them to be. Wiping too often has the same effect, so if you have to dedicate, try not too wipe too much or too hard. Hot cayenne pepper is a great tool for preventing hemorrhoid. Many times, hemorrhoids form because the body is not getting enough circulation. Hot cayenne pepper helps circulate blood throughout your whole body, even to the anal area. Horse chestnut and butcher’s broom are natural ingredients that have the same purpose. If you are an athlete, make sure that you wash yourself after a workout with your team. This is imperative, as you will want to eliminate all bacteria and sweat from your body. Excess sweat and bacteria can increase the amount of redness on your skin and worsen your hemorrhoids. Beans are very important to help eliminate hemorrhoids. When you consume beans, you will maximize the quality of your bowel movements, which can help with the irritation that you may get from hemorrhoids. Try to eat a least one meal during the day with beans to help improve your condition. In conclusion, it can never hurt to learn more about your body and how to cure or avoid certain ailments. One such ailment that can creep up on you without expecting it is hemorrhoids. Hopefully the detail provided in this article will assist you in knowing how to prevent and treat them. Thank you for reading this article. You can find more articles on our Beauty and Health Living Online Home Page . Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Help Yourself Towards Happiness With These Hemorrhoid Tips December 8, 2011 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment Regular exercise can help prevent hemorrhoids. Exercise increases blood circulation as well as prevents constipation which can cause hemorrhoids. However, strenuous exercise should be avoided if a person already has hemorrhoids to prevent complications. In that case, exercise should be limited to light exercises such as walking, yoga, or swimming. Overweight individuals are at a bigger risk for hemorrhoids, so you should lose weight if you want to reduce your risk or reduce the swelling of a pre-existing hemorrhoid. A larger waist and abdominal area means that you are putting g a lot more weight on the veins in your rectum. People who have colon or digestive tract problems usually also suffer from hemorrhoids. The frequent diarrhea and constipation associated with these problems can cause hemorrhoids. In order to decrease constipation, you need to eat foods that are rich in fibers. Adding fiber-rich vegetables, fruits and whole grains to your dietary intake can offer relief to colon or digestive tract problems and reduce the chances of developing hemorrhoids. Apply petroleum jelly to your hemorrhoids before a bowel movement. A bowel movement, especially a solid one, can irritate hemorrhoids and cause them to bleed. Applying petroleum jelly to your hemorrhoids before a bowel movement will help the stool pass smoothly without causing bleeding; it also helps to lessen the pain. Increasing the amount of fiber in your diet will work wonders with your hemorrhoids. The fiber will help you to avoid straining and constipation, which are primary factors in the development of hemorrhoids. Also, the high fiber diet will make your stool softer and easier to pass, reducing the pain associated with hemorrhoids. Some high fiber foods are fruits, vegetables, and bran. You’ll be surprised how many types of nonprescription products can quickly relieve your hemorrhoid symptoms! These include creams, gels, pads, and foams that can soothe pain and reduce itching and inflammation. You can also try pills, such as Ibuprofen and Acetaminophen that can reduce swelling and inflammation! If you are looking for a fruit to limit the pain that you feel internally, choose blackberries. Blackberries are one of the best antioxidants that you can put in your body and will combat free radicals to make you feel great. Eat a dish of blackberries to stay as healthy as possible. If you think that you may be constipated, take a walk before going to the bathroom. Walking can get your body functioning and prepare your bowels for movement. By doing this you can avoid unnecessary straining that will make hemorrhoids worsen or become irritated. Make your walk about 10-15 minutes and as brisk as you can. If you feel the need to pass a hard stool past a hemorrhoid, try applying a coat of petroleum jelly to the area before sitting on the toilet. This can ease the passage of stool, which will reduce the pain. The jelly should also help keep the stool from breaking open the hemorrhoid and causing bleeding. You need to limit the amount of salt in your diet in order to reduce or prevent hemorrhoids. Too much salt will lead to fluid retention, which in turn will cause your body to swell, which includes the blood vessels that actually cause hemorrhoids. By making some changes in your diet, decreasing salt and increasing fluid intake, you may be able to prevent getting hemorrhoids. Keep the preceding useful tips in mind when you are dealing with your hemorrhoids and you are sure to find some comfort. Put these tips to good use and wipe out the little pains in the butt that are causing you so much discomfort on a day to day basis. Thank you for reading this article. You can find more articles on our Beauty and Health Living Online Home Page . Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Hemorrhoids Advice You Should Definitely Check Out November 6, 2011 By Beauty and Health Leave a Comment If you are feeling confused on how to deal with your hemorrhoids then look no further. A lot of people that have hemorrhoids find it hard to know what to do once they manifest, the thing is you have to find as much information as you can about getting rid of them. If you have hemorrhoids, there are many things that you can do to help minimize the uncomfortable feeling you are dealing with. One of the most effective ways is to make sure your body is hydrated. You can simply do this by consuming at least eight glasses of water a day. Aim for as much water as you can to keep your body flushed and moist. A great way to get rid of the pain associated with hemorrhoids is to soak in a warm bath with about 2 cups of Epsom salt. You may think salt would burn the hemorrhoid, but it actually draws the moisture slowly out of it, reduces the swelling, and ultimately helps to eliminate the pain. In order to reduce the pain and suffering of your hemorrhoid problem, you need to stop eating spicy foods. The capsaicin oil in hot peppers does not digest fully after traveling through your body. So what is hot going in, is just as hot coming out, and oftentimes worse because it will cover your hemorrhoids on exiting your body. Although or perhaps especially because this problem can be a bit uncomfortable for many people to talk about it is essential that you know what is going on and feel comfortable talking to a medical professional. Remember that they have seen much stranger problems many times throughout their life and career. If you find that you are in constant pain from hemorrhoids and you are overweight, you may want to consider starting a serious diet and fitness routine. If you can lose some weight, you will eliminate some of the pressure that the extra weight is putting on the veins that are in the anus, which causes the hemorrhoids. Eat food high in fiber to prevent hemorrhoids. Constipation, which is a common cause of hemorrhoids, can be prevented by consuming enough fiber to keep your stool soft. Eat foods that are high in fiber, or use a fiber supplement. Fruits like papaya, grapes and watermelon are also good to keep your stool soft. Try not to take laxative medications if you can help it. While they will help you use the restroom after you take them, they cause further constipation later on. This will only exacerbate your discomfort and frustration. Find other ways to treat your hemorrhoids; consider changing your diet or taking supplements. To cure your hemorrhoids, try using yarrow tea. You can purchase yarrow tea from your local health food stores. To apply the yarrow tea, you should make the tea and let it brew for a half an hour to ensure its strength. Once the tea is finished brewing, absorb the yarrow tea with a cotton ball and apply to the hemorrhoids. Avoid chronic diarrhea. If you experience diarrhea for more than three to four bowel movements, it may be time to schedule an appointment with your doctor. Chronic diarrhea will irritate your bowels, and can cause hemorrhoids to greatly enlarge and possibly tear. Prevent this by eating fiber and staying well hydrated. Stay away from spicy and hot foods because they can inflame your hemorrhoids.  Just making a few small changes in your diet can help you treat your current difficulties and help you prevent further complications. It is also important to limit the amount of coffee and beer that you drink. If you experience severe soreness, swelling and pain due to your hemorrhoids, one easy and quick way to reduce these symptoms and effects it to put together an ice pack. Make sure that the ice pack is wrapped or contained in a clean plastic baggie each time you apply it to the affected area. Because hemorrhoids are swollen veins, they can become very painful. A good way to ease the pain is to take some sort of over-the-counter medication. However, not just any type of medication will do. Go with a medication that relief relieves pain and  swelling. This is an anti-inflammatory and will help reduce the swelling and ultimately, the pain. Hemorrhoids can cause many painful, irritating symptoms, including itching and inflammation.  A good product to try are medicated wipes  that you can find at any grocery store or pharmacy.  These wipes contain witch hazel, which has been shown to reduce the swelling, itching and inflammation caused by hemorrhoids. Now that you have some insight on what to do about hemorrhoids, you can hopefully form some strategies for success that can help you alleviate your problem. Make sure you look up other sources of information as well to add to your overall knowledge of the subject, if you do that and apply all the information, you should feel relief before you know it. Filed Under: Hemorrhoids Recent Posts Always Put Your Best Face Forward With These Beauty Tips The Basics Of Dealing With Back Pain Solid Fitness Tips For A Busy Mom Asthma Tips That Can Make A Huge Difference Wonderful Aging Tips For Those That Want To Look Young Arthritis Remedies That Can Be Found In Your Own Home Weighing In On Weight Loss – How To Lose Pounds Now! Find The Acne Tips That You Seek Do Not Let Tinnitus Disrupt Your Life Smile Big And Bright After You Try These Teeth Whitening Tips Great Tips That Will Help You Get Fit And Look Amazing! Advice That Will Help You Get Your White Smile Back You’ve reached the maximum daily content generation limit. Logical And Effective Skin Care Advice For Everyday People How Anyone Can Get The Self Help They Need Build A Solid Fitness Plan With The Help Of These Ideas The Relationship Between Aclohol And Panic Attacks Get Fit And Feel Great About It Improve Your Fitness With These Tips Follow These Nutrition Rules To Optimize Your Health Remember To Enhance Your Memory With These Ideas. Put Down The Junk Food And Get Fit! Make Getting In Shape Easier With This Advice The Best Juicing Tips Of All Time Getting Smart About Health Insurance – Tips For Selecting A Policy! Want To Get In Shape? Here’s Some Tips Helpful Hints For Your Problems With Hemorrhoids Stop Letting Hair Loss Becoming An Issue Tips To Help You Reach A High Level Of Fitness Follow These Tips For Maintaining Optimal Fitness Plans Fitness Tips For A New And Healthier You Make A Difference By Following These Simple Fitness Tips Tips For Working Fitness Into Your Life Things You Should Know About Diabetes The Best Ways To Find A Doctor To Help Your Depression Making The Most Of Your Workout Routine: Suggestions And Tips Slim Down With Weight Loss Secrets! Tips To Help You With Your Fitness Needs Fast Fitness Tips To Help Get You Going Beauty Advice That You Can Actually Use Reaching Your Fitness Goals Just Got Easier! A Healthy Diet Is Required For Proper Fitness Great Guide On How To Deal With Back Pain How To Tighten And Shape Your Body Asthma Isn’t Any Fun. Use These Tips To Lessen Asthma Problems Balance Your Workout Routines Using These Tips Age Gracefully With These Simple Tips And Techniques How You Can Effectively Reach Your Fitness Goals. Ideas For Getting In Shape And Staying In Shape Strategies On How To Get Rid Of Arthritis Return to top of page Copyright © 2012 ·