Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Footlogics Removeable Arch Support Orthotic Insoles Home Periods Charting Cycles Charting your Menstrual Cycle Know your body Charting Tools to use How do I know I am fertile? Pt 1 How do I know I am fertile? Pt 2 Charting Basics Free Ovulation Charting Software Chart menstrual cycle with Moon Diary Hormonal Forecaster Charting Software Download Astrological Calendar Free Paper Charting system Late / Irregular Periods Could I be pregnant? Help I think I'm pregnant Irregular menstrual cycles Emergency Calculation Early Pregnancy Signs Remedies for Irregularity Use the moon to regulate cycle Irregularity FAQ's Avoid STD's Pregnancy/Due date calculator Menstrual Basics The Period Pages How does menstruation happen each month? Glossary of menstrual terms. Why is menstruation Important in a womans life Foods for healthy menstrual cycles First Blood or Menarche Healthy Menstrual Diet Menstrual Synchrony PMS PMS Friend or Foe? Some more on PMS Beating the menstrual blues. PMS Types PMS and Orgasms The Tao of Reducing PMS Relieve Period Pain with Warmth Vitamins give PMS relief Biogest Herbal Skin Cream for the relief of PMS symptoms Menstrual Issues Healthy Vaginas All about Pap Smears Pregnancy and Irregularity FAQ Ovulation vs Menstruation Taking care of your breasts Beauty and the breast Part 1 Frequently Asked Questions or FAQ's Beauty and the Breast part 2 Watch out for Low Iron Levels ROR Vibrational Essences Pads and Tampons What do I use? Pads, Tampons? TSS Stop Stains - Wear Period Pants Tampons and Asbestos - Fact or Fiction? Period Stain Removal Guide Asbestos and Tampons - copy of Email Hoax Calculate how much money you spend on Disposables? Never buy Pads Again Other Tampon Alternatives Female Energy Cycle The Female Energy Cycle How does FEC work? What is an archetype? Virgin Archetype Mother Enchantress Crone Benefits of using FEC Ovulation Vs Menstruation Contributors Have your say Invitation to become an Urban Priestess Temple of the Blood CD Slapping our daughters Without Dad Little girls grow up too fast Wombmoon Woman Myth, Magic and mystery Moon Song Spinning Wheel What is aromatherapy History of Aromatherapy Awesome Women Erotic Menstruation TV and menstruation Menstrual Workshops Moonsong Workshops Bleedin Woman Pt 1 Bleedin' Woman Pt 2 Biblical bodies and shame Victorian Men, Women and Menstruation Modernist Advertising Postmodern products New day for women Bleedin Wom Bibliography Poetry ARIANROHD (Welsh moon; goddess of the Celts) Funny / Inspirational Opinions on advertising Maca, More than Menopause Pink Ribbon Ride Towards Menstruation Puberty Puberty Contents What do I use? Pads, Tampons? TSS Stop Stains - Wear Period Pants Tampons and Asbestos - Fact or Fiction? Period Stain Removal Guide Asbestos and Tampons - copy of Email Hoax Calculate how much money you spend on Disposables? Never buy Pads Again Other Tampon Alternatives Fertility General Fertility Fertility Index Two Fertile times? Fertility signals Cervical Mucus More on Mucus Basal Temperature Abdominal Sacral Massage Pregnancy Signs Maca Powder and fertility Oncore Aphrodisiac Personal Lubricant Gel Libido and your cycle Hormones are amazing Estrogen What is Stress Incontinence? Progesterone FSH and LH Stress Incontinence Solutions Fertility FAQs Natural Fertility Methods About Vibrational Essences STD List and symptoms Chlamydia Trying to Conceive Moon's Trigger Effect Helps You To Get Pregnant FREE TTC Ovulation Software Sperm Friendly Lubricant How to get pregnant How does conception occur? Meaningful Charting Increasing the odds the Pill and TTC Increase Female Fertility Increase Male Fertility Diet guidelines when TTC Mind Body Connection Affirmations and getting pregnant Stress Management Complimentary Therapies Ovulation Prediction Kits Ezy Nappy Smoking and fertility Prolonging Fertility Contraception Contraceptive choices Barrier Methods Why condom size matters Spermicide - more harm than good Hormonal Methods More on the Pill Avoid pregnancy naturally Lunar Fertility The Lunar Cycle Two fertile times? Lunar Fertility History Lunar Fertile angle explained What is my lunar fertile time? Moon Cycles and women Lunar Phases astrologically Recognising Lunar Phases Breastfeeding Physiology of Breastfeeding Breastfeeding Basics 1 Breastfeeding Basics 2 Is Breast Best for Baby? Ovulation after Breastfeeding A personal story Breastfeeding Skill Recognised Baby Dummies - Urgent Action Pregnancy Dance of the Womb Book DVD Menopause Menopause Contents Menopause Facts Menopause Treatment Menopause Symptoms Maca Powder and Menopause Art of Energetic Menopause The Tai Chi of Menopause Is it me or my hormones? Alternative view on menopause The Secret Pleasures of Menopause Spiritual Menopause Yoga and Menopause Yoga for uterine prolapse The Moon The Moon Charting with the moon Moon influences fertility Lunar ready Reckoner Lunar Phases Northern Hem Lunar Phases Southern Hem Time Zone conversion What is astrology? Lunar Fertility The Lunar Cycle Two fertile times? Lunar Fertility History Lunar Fertile angle explained What is my lunar fertile time? Moon Cycles and women Lunar Phases astrologically Recognising Lunar Phases Female Energy Cycle The Female Energy Cycle How does FEC work? What is an archetype? Virgin Archetype Mother Enchantress Crone Benefits of using FEC Ovulation Vs Menstruation Our Products Cloth Pads and Panty Liners Say Goodbye to Costly Disposable Sanitary Pads Forever! Why use cloth menstrual pads? Cloth Pads - What's in it for me? Leakproof Period Underwear What women are saying How to use cloth Panty Liners Sizes and Colours Cloth Pad FAQ How many do I need? What about hygeine? Caring for your pads Cloth Menstrual Pad Wholesale Enquiries Feminine Hygiene Alternatives PMS and Menstrual Support Maca Powder Balances Female Hormones Nutritional support for menstrual cycles Maca Nutrition Guide Biogest PMS Cream Hotteeze Stick on Heat Pads Why Maca Vegecaps? Why choose Pro-Ma Diaries and Calendars Moontime Diary 2011 - Live better by the Moon 2012 Moon Diary Moon Diary Sample Pages Gratitude Diary 2010 Diary Comparison Chart Moon Magic Address Book Journal for the Pregnant Goddess Menstrual Wall Chart Moon Phase Planting Calendar Astrological Diary Sample Page Astrology Planner Moon Rites Greeting Cards Journal for the Modern Godess Nirvana Greeting Cards Alternative Products Catalogue Books The Optimized Woman Great books The Pill: are you sure it's for you? The Wild Genie Walking with the Genie Blessing not a Curse Belly dance for Birth Book and DVD Natural Fertility Moon Rites Women, health and hormones Puberty Book for Boys Tells All Puberty Girl book by Shushann Movsession Book Reviews Ovusight Home Fertility Microscope Ovusight Home Fertilty Tester How to Use Ovusight? Reading Ovusight Results Ovusight FAQ's Other Goods NEW - Handbag Organiser Astroglide Personal Lubricant Goji Power Dried Goji Berries What are goji berries? Cacao is Pure Chocolate with No Guilt Casual Arch Support Insoles for low heeled dress and casual shoes Catwalk - Comfort Inserts for High Heels Dress Shoes Comfort - Orthotic Insoles for work and sports shoes HPP Change your Mind Easily Maternity / Nursing Bras Bravado Original Comfy Nursing Bras Nursing Bra Sizes Picking a Nursing Bra Winalite Love Moon Pads Winalite Love Moon Pads Love Moon Free Sample Site Info Site Info About Us Email Us Legal Information Privacy Policy My Story Other menstrual internet Links Our Products :  Other Goods Casual Arch Support Insoles for low heeled dress and casual shoes "Footlogics Casual" removeable orthotic insoles are a three quarter length orthotic arch support, suitable for any type of mens footwear and wider fitting womens footwear eg, loafers or moccasins. They are an easy and cost-effective solution to heel pain, knee pain, back pain or tired, aching feet and legs. Footlogics Casual features Dual Layer Orthotic Technology - i.e. supportive medium-density EVA, combined with a soft 2mm Durapontex layer makes this a very comfortable orthotic insoles, providing support AND cushioning! The diagram below shows how the insoles provide support for the foot arch and re-align the lower leg reducing fatigue. This process also supports the whole of the body stimulating healthier posture and spine alignment. Buy Casual Inserts Now Footlogics Casual Shoe Inserts provide effective relief for - Heel Pain, Heel Spurs (Plantar Fasciitis) - often experienced as sharp, stabbing pain at the bottom or front of the heel bone upon standing or walking after being still. Ball of Foot Pain - experienced as a burning sensation in the ball of the foot. Women can be more prone to having this type of foot pain because they wear heels - See Catwalk Insoles for High Heels Achilles Tendonitis - pain experinced just above the heel often extending into the back of the calf muscles. Knee Pain - often experienced as a crunching or grinding sensation in the knee especially upon movement after being still. Low Back Pain - experienced as a dull ache and tiredness in the lower back and many other complaints such as tired, aching feet and legs. For more detailed information on these types of condition and to learn more about the causes of arch and foot pain please see footlogics.com.au. The Footlogics Casual Biomechanical Orthotic Insert for mens and womens shoes is engineered to suit the human body. They are shaped inserts to fit easily into most types of wider / looser fitting shoes. If you need an insole for medium to high heels see the Catwalk Insoles , and for work or sports shoes see Comfort Insoles Dual Layer Footbed Technology - a combination of firm EVA plus 2mm of soft, cushioning Durapontex providing support and comfort . large shock absorbing heel pad biomechanically- shaped arch support to control over-pronation . This means the design of the insoles act upon your body to change its alignment. covered with soft, velour type anti bacterial fabric so your feet stay dry and cool. Sizing Chart for the Casual Orthotic Insoles Casual Insole Size Aust / US UK XSmall Mens 3.5 - 5 3 - 4.5 Womens 4.5 - 6 3 - 4.5 Small Mens 5.5 - 7 5 - 6.5 Womens 6.5 - 8 5 - 6.5 Medium Mens 7.5 - 9 7 - 8.5 Womens 8.5 - 10 7 - 8.5 Large Mens 9.5 - 11 9 - 10.5 Womens 10.5 - 12 9 - 10.5 XLarge Mens 11.5 -13 11 - 12.5 Home Shop Contact Us Legals Privacy Policy Site Map Thank you for visiting menstruation.com