
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 19:36:47 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.9 (Debian) PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny8 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.9 OpenSSL/0.9.8g
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny8
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alejandro Aguirre Wallace | Weight Loss | Obesity Surgery | Bariatric Surgery Mexico Online Help Desk Home Treatments Destinations Resources Medical Centers FREE Quotes Packages Pricing Contact Us Search: Medical Center Treatments Articles News Videos Packages Find Medical Procedures Treatment Treatment A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Addiction Treatment Age Management Alternative Medicine Anti-Aging Ayurveda Cancer Treatment Chinese Medicine Chronic Diseases Cosmetic/Plastic Surgery Dentistry Detox ENT Executive Healthcheck Eye/Lasik Care Fertility Treatment General Medicine General Surgery Gynecology Treatment Heart Care/Surgery Herbal Treatment Homeopathy Treatment Infertility | IVF Laparoscopic Surgery Medical Spa Treatment Natural Therapies Neurology Obesity/Bariatric Surgery Organ Transplant Orthopedic/Knee Surgery Others Pediatric Treatment Psychiatry Radiology/CT Scans Rehabilitation Skin Care Spine Care | Surgery Sports Medicine Stem Cell Therapy Urology Vascular Surgery Weight Loss Program Yoga/Meditation Region/Country Region country A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Africa Asia Central America Europe Latin America Middle East North America South America Albania Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Barbados Belgium Bolivia Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Fiji Islands France Georgia Germany Greece Guatemala Hungary India Indonesia Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jordan Latvia Lebanon Lithuania Macedonia Malaysia Malta Mexico Morocco New Zealand Nigeria Norway Oman Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Serbia Singapore Slovakia South Africa South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Tunisia Turkey UAE Ukraine United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela Vietnam Free Subscription Enter Email Address Enter your first & last name Enter security code below * Popular Health & Wellness
                      Requests Affordable Kidney Transplant Surgery Cheap Dentistry Packages in Costa Rica Cosmetic Surgery Packages in Cancun Mexico Dental Implants Package from Cairo Egypt Ilizarov Limb Lenghtening Surgery Package Turkey IVF Treatment Package in Istanbul Turkey Knee Surgery Packages in India from $7000 Lap Band Surgery Package in Mexico Special Summer Offer - IVF Package in India Spine Surgery in Korea Stem Cell Treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis disease in Mexico Stem Cell Treatment Packages Want to feel young An Amazing Anti-Aging Program in Croatia Best Dentists in Costa Rica Best Hospitals in India Best Hospitals in Turkey Best Sports Therapy in Croatia Cosmetic Surgery in Germany Dental Holidays in Egypt Drug Addiction Treatment Center Abroad Fertility Treatment in Argentina Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery in Mexico Swiss Medical Resort Alcohol Addiction treatment russia Costa Rica Dental Implants Fertility Treatment in India Gastric Bypass Surgery Mexico Heart Bypass Surgery in Turkey Knee Replacement Surgery India Laser Eye Surgery in Bangkok Thailand Spine Surgery in Korea Sports Therapy And Rehabilitation Croatia Stem Cell Therapy Abroad Weight Loss Surgery Latin America Center Profile: Alejandro Aguirre-Wallace Alejandro Aguirre-Wallace : Welcome to your change! Home > Mexico Contact Information: Alejandro Aguirre Wallace +1 303 500 3802 Location: Avenida Obregon #1094, esquina con calle 11 Ensenada, Mexico Alejandro Aguirre Wallace | Weight Loss Surgery | Gastric Bypass Surgery | Morbid Obesity Surgery | Bariatric Surgery | Gastric Band Surgery | Gastric Baloon | Laparoscopic Obesity Surgery | Weight Loss Surgery | Sleeve Gastrectomy | Ensenada, Mexico Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace, a well experienced Bariatric Surgeon in Mexico, performs a variety of obesity weight loss surgery to aid long-term weight loss treatments. He studied medicine at the "Universidad La Salle," in the city of Mexico D.F. Soon afterwards, he did a specialty at the General Hospital of the Secretaria de Salud (Secretary of Health), and became a general surgeon in the year 1983. Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace always performs the Bariatric Surgery with stomach separation. Currently he continues to practice the same technique with some small differences that improve surgical time, and with better and prolonged weight loss results in the long term. He practiced at the Sharp Cabrillo Hospital , in San Diego, California USA, under the education of Dr. Richard Catlin, and specialized in bariatric surgery. Cardiomed Hospital in Ensenada The hospital has all the necessary equipment and the most friendly experienced personnel. When you arrive at the Hospital for your surgery you will meet with the hospital's experienced personnel who will take care of you, they are: Fernando Villegas - Anesthesiologist Guadalupe Salazar - Instrumentist Dr. Guillermo Estrella - Medical Assistant Rosella Aguirre - Services and Management The surgery lasts from 1.1/2 to 2.1/2 hours. We get you up and about and the pulmonary therapy starts 12 to 24 hours after the surgery. The hospital stay is 2 to 3 days long. Once you are released from the hospital, doctor Aguirre's staff will provide you with written post op information as well as contact phone numbers. If any complications occur; doctor Aguirre will provide his services at no cost, although hospital fees will apply. If your city of residence is 250 miles or less from Ensenada, you will be able to leave and return 8 days after the surgery. After the 8th day, you are discharged and checked again the 30th day after the surgery for new indications of vitamins, type of diet, exercises, etc. It is important to be in communication with the doctor at least every thirty days, specially during the first six months after the surgery. Bariatric Surgery, the definitive solution for the overweight Obesity is one of the major health problems confronting the United States. It is estimated that approximately 30% of the population is overweight and over five million Americans are more than 100 lbs. over their ideal weight. Most obese individuals have struggled unsuccessfully with their weight for many years. The numerous diets, commercial slimming clubs, and weight loss centers offering treatments such as hypnosis, pituitary hormones, appetite suppression drugs and behavioral therapy attest to the great difficulty many overweight people have in losing weight and keeping it off. Some of these weight loss strategies may be successful in people with mild obesity, but nearly all fail in individuals 100 pounds or more over their ideal body weight. At present, surgery is the only proven, effective therapy for severe obesity or morbid obesity. NEW PRICING STRUCTURE OFFERED FOR LIMITED TIME! Please see details under Treatment Section. We are offering a discounted pricing package which includes round trip transportation services from the San Diego airport, a condo for one week and the medical and hospital fee. Please Click here to request more information from Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace. Center Details Bariatric Surgery, the definitive solution to the overweight Obesity is one of the major health problems confronting the United States. It is estimated that approximately 30% of the population is overweight and over five million Americans are more than 100 lbs. over their ideal weight. Most obese individuals have struggled unsuccessfully with their weight for many years. The numerous diets, commercial slimming clubs, and weight loss centers offering treatments such as hypnosis, pituitary hormones, appetite suppression drugs, and behavioral therapy attest to the great difficulty many overweight people have in losing weight and keeping it off. Some of these weight loss strategies may be successful in people with mild obesity, but nearly all fail in individuals 100 pounds or more over their ideal body weight. At present, surgery is the only proven, effective therapy for severe obesity or morbid obesity. Cardiomed Hospital Dr. Aguirre performs all his surgeries at Cardiomed Hospital in Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico, that has all the necessary equipment and the friendliest experienced personnel. When you arrive at the Hospital for your surgery you will meet with the hospital's experienced personnel who will take care of you, they are: 1. Fernando Villegas - Anesthesiologist 2. Guadalupe Salazar - Instrumentist 3. Dr. Guillermo Estrella - Medical Assistant 4. Rosella Aguirre - Services and Management The surgery lasts from 1.1/2 to 2.1/2 hours. We get you up and about and the pulmonary therapy starts 12 to 24 hours after the surgery. The hospital stay is 2 to 3 days long. Once you are released from the hospital, doctor Aguirre's staff will provide you with written post op information as well as contact phone numbers. If any complications occur; doctor Aguirre will provide his services at no cost, although hospital fees will apply. If your city of residence is 250 miles or less from Ensenada, you will be able to leave and return 8 days after the surgery. After the 8th day, you are discharged and checked again the 30th day after the surgery for new indications of vitamins, type of diet, exercises, etc. It is important to be in communication with the doctor at least every thirty days, especially during the first six months after the surgery. To learn more about Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace services, please click Request Info . Treatments & Prices Pre-surgery Preparation Who qualifies for Gastric Bypass surgery? Although there are exceptions, these are the criteria that are generally used to decide who qualifies for the gastric reduction surgery Previous efforts to lose weight with balanced diets have failed. Absence of serious medical problems that make the surgery too dangerous. If you are at least 65 lbs overweight, or have a 35-40 or more BMI (body mass index.) Individuals who have a 35-40 BMI, and must lose weight in order to take care of their other medical problems. Pediatric patients or patients with previous bariatric surgeries, require different specifications, please ask us about this. Certain medical conditions like Diabetes Mellitus, Arterial Hypertension, Aterosclerosis, Osteoporosis, Infarct to the Myocardium, Tiroidea Disease, etc., are originated or aggravated by obesity, and are reasons for this class of weight loss surgery. Serious psychiatric problems are a contraindication for the surgery, unless a psychiatrist certifies that the disease is controlled and improving. When these diseases are not controlled, they can worsen with the surgery. Studies have demonstrated that people who suffer from morbid obesity do not generally have a higher index of psychiatric illnesses than the general public. Those sensations of incapacity, lack of security, frustration, obsession with foods, anxieties and depressions are common problems in patients who suffer morbid obesity, but are not psychiatric diseases. These symptoms almost always improve after gastric weight reduction. Prerequisites for surgery: Clinical history (Medical Questionnaire) to know you better as a patient and as a person. Control of associated diseases. Lab exams. Cardiological evaluation. Recommendations: No smoking Respiratory Exercises To earn your trust Hospital Stay Cardiomed Hospital in Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico, has all the necessary equipment and the most friendly experienced personnel. When you arrive at the Hospital for your surgery you will meet with the hospital's experienced personnel who will take care of you, they are: Fernando Villegas - Anesthesiologist Guadalupe Salazar - Instrumentist Dr. Guillermo Estrella - Medical Assistant Rosella Aguirre - Services and Management The surgery lasts from 1.1/2 to 2.1/2 hours. We get you up and about and the pulmonary therapy starts 12 to 24 hours after the surgery. The hospital stay is 2 to 3 days long. Once you are released from the hospital, doctor Aguirre's staff will provide you with written post op information as well as contact phone numbers. If any complications occur; doctor Aguirre will provide his services at no cost, although hospital fees will apply. If your city of residence is 250 miles or less from Ensenada, you will be able to leave and return 8 days after the surgery. After the 8th day, you are discharged and checked again the 30th day after the surgery for new indications of vitamins, type of diet, exercises, etc. It is important to be in communication with the doctor at least every thirty days, specially during the first six months after the surgery. Gastric (Bypass Surgery) The Gastric Bypass consists of stomach separation in two parts, a small one ( 7-8%) that's the one in charge to receive the food. The larger one remains in your body producing its necessary digestive substances, but will no longer bypass your food. This way the amount of food is reduced causing an immediate filling (full) sensation and satisfaction. One more mouthful and the sensation is no longer pleasant, maybe reaching the point of vomiting, because there is no more space in the reduced stomach. In order for the food to follow its natural course, the small stomach is connected to the small intestine immediately in front of the inferior (large) stomach, whereas the food coming from the small stomach, and the substances coming form the large stomach, will be mixed. This change of anatomy in your body will not cause strange or annoying sensations to you; on the contrary, hiatal hernia can be corrected, and also gall bladder disease can be treated and removed. What are the risks? All surgeries imply a certain risk and the Gastric Bypass is no exception. Specific complications like leaks or obstructions are extremely rare, and when they appear, they require a second immediate intervention. Like any other surgery, mortality also is a possibility, although equally rare. It is impossible to guarantee an optimal result, but it is possible to offer the best care and attention. Postsurgery Period Evolution How fast you lose weight will sometimes depend on how much you weighed before surgery, generally the higher your BMI the faster you will lose. Example: Height: 5ft - Weight: 320 lbs will lose 26 to 30 lbs in the first month. The second month will lose 15 to 20 lbs. I want to tell you that the surgery is not magic. If you want to obtain the desired weight loss, you must put some of your effort and will power. Always follow these recommendations: Always eat at your meal time. Exercise, aerobics recommended. Take vitamins. Welcome to your change! NEW PRICING STRUCTURE OFFERED FOR LIMITED TIME! $6300 USD Previously offered at over $10,000 USD – See complete details by clicking on the link named Our Packages Includes: round trip transportation to and from San Diego airport, hospital stay for two nights for you and a companion, along with medical and hospital fees; patient is responsible for 2 nights of hotel accommodations, however, Dr. Aguirre will assist with recommending hotels near the hospital. To learn more about Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace services, please click Request Info . Qualifications, Accreditations & Certifications Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace was born in 1954 in the city of San Diego, California, USA. He studied medicine at the "Universidad La Salle," in the city of Mexico D.F. Soon afterwards, he did a specialty at the General Hospital of the Secretaria de Salud (Secretary of Health), and became a general surgeon in the year 1983. He practiced at the Sharp Cabrillo Hospital, in San Diego, California USA, under the education of Dr. Richard Catlin, and specialized in bariatric surgery. Dr. Aguirre always performs the Bariatric Surgery with stomach separation. Currently he continues to pratice the same technique with some small differences that improve surgical time, and with better and prolonged weight loss results in the long term. At the present moment, he's a member and founder of the Mexican Society of the Surgery of Obesity and a member of the International Federation for Obesity Surgery To learn more about Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace services, please click Request Info . Testimonials 08/29 11:11 PM Just past my 5 year post op anniversary and I just wanted to thank Dr. Aguirre. I will be forever thankful to him, his family and staff. I am maintaining -150+ pound weight loss, all of my health issues are resolved, off 8 medications I was on pre-op and loving life. Thank you again Dr. A. You changed my life! — Eggface 03/16 09:16 PM I had surgery with Dr. Aguirre June 30th, 2004. I have lost a total of 270lbs. I LOVEEEEEEEEE Dr. A and I will always say that I owe my life to him. Surgery in the USA is just risky as anywhere you can go. I've said it a million times on the message boards, I know 2 other people from my area that also went to Dr. Aguirre and I'm getting ready to go see him again, because I trust him more than I trust any of the doctors in the US and I have some intestinal issues going on that are unrelated to my bypass. I would rather have him operate on me than a surgeon in the US...except maybe my plastic surgeon. If you look for the negative you're going to find it. You have to go with a Positive attitude and want to change your life. If you read the whole story on the girl that died she left early from Ensenada. I was there for 10 days and this time I don't know how long I'll be there before he tells me to go home. Also if you truly research surgery you will know that it's not exactly safe to have surgery and fly...LOTS of people do it, but because of the pressure change in the cabin you can develop blood clots. There is a risk in ANY surgery. Dr. Aguirre has countless patients that would testify that he saved their life. You see this Mona person attacking him and I have no idea if posts get deleted. I've never seen any of mine get deleted, but they do have monitors and Obesityhelp is a private website so it would have to be an admin person that would delete a conversation. Maybe they didn't feel it was acceptable. It's one person. Some of us are so busy in our new life that we don't get back here to comment as much as we need to. But I will sing his praises forever. You can do whatever you want, but I know that he saved my life and I'm very thankful that I can call him and talk to him even now almost 7 years later and ask him questions! He is one of the best men I know — Maggie M. Hi I am almost SIX years out with having my surgery with Dr.Aguirre. I have never had any problems Due to his skills. I think the trouble here is when most of us going to him WE are desperate and sickly already (due to our weight and weight related health issues). I went there knowing it was a big possibly that i might die, and i told my friends and family that if i did die (it was MY fault, for being so darn fat) not Dr. Aguirre's. Thank goodness, that I'm able to maintain my weight. Also, I have had an arm lift, breast lift, breast reduction, tummy tuck and 12 sessions of liposuction in Mexico as well and I'm here to tell about it. I'm sorry someone died and that some dont feel well. All of our bodies and systems are different. So we cannot go around and blame Dr. Aguirre for his great skills, if it was not for him I know I would be dead. THANK YOU Dr. Aguirre for making a differce in my life, and so many others (whom I know and have met, that feel that they owe their life's to YOU!!! We are all adults and have to choose the Doctor that we have the confidence in. I'm happy to be in "The Thinner Side of Life" — Rachel A. 01/03 I had my surgery on 12-16-04 and am doing awesome!!! I often think of Ensenada, Mexico and Dr Aguirre and all-in-all it was a Fabulous experience. Granted, I was LOOKING for the positive, had a great attitude and had my crazy, fun mom with me to keep me entertained. It really was a pilgrimage of sorts and I'll never forget it. There were times during my trip I was scared. I could have died! But to tell you the truth, my tummy tuck done here in the US close to my home freaked me out more than my wls w/Dr. A! If you have questions...ask them! If you feel desperate to do something about your health and have the $ and a little bit of faith...DO IT! You'll do great. Just look for the positive and you're sure to find it. Molly H. He was very nice and friendly. Answered my questions and was very descriptive on the surgery itself. I never met any of the office staff. Great bedside manner. Would recommend to all who inquired. Shauna E. Wendell, ID Dr. Aguirre is the most helpful, talented and kind surgeon I have ever met, and that is from a nurse of over 20 years! My insurance would not cover weight loss surgery and I needed a revision of a vertical banded gastroplasty. Dr. Aguirre explained everything to me in detail. He accompanied me while I got my preop tests and was there for every question I asked. As a retired nurse I knew what I was getting into, but I learned things from him about what he was going to do. The hospital (CardioMed) was small but excellent. The staff was plentiful and knowledgable. They knew what to do and did it. I stayed in the hospital 2 nights and then went to a provided condo for 5 nights. Dr. Aguirre actually made a HOUSE CALL! He gave me specific post op instructions and talked about... Jane H. I liked him very much he was very kind and gentle a seemed genuinly concerend for his patitnts. It didn't he is a very kind and caring person. The staff there are great and very frindly also very caring and patient people. I can't say that I disliked anything abou him. That Dr. Crossin and the entire staff are great people they take very good care of you. After care is very important to them. Yes you have a lot more visits to go to and they are avalible anytime you need them. It was explained in every detail by the surgon and the entire staff I had to go to an all day class to prepare for this surgury. A 10+++. Both are exceptional. Susan L. Terre Haute, IN I can not say enough wonderful things about Dr. Aguirre. It is sad Annie died. She died 7 days after surgery. If that is the case she left Dr. Aguirre's care before she was instructed to do so. As far as not being given any pain meds, you are instructed to go to the pharmacy and pick them up. Did they not do that? I actually am still here in Ensenada and am 6 days post-op and am doing wonderfully. I have had wonderful care. When going into this surgery or any surgery, we must all realize death is something that may occur. You must be at peace with yourself, your life and your creator before you do this. This surgery or any surgery is not one to be taken lightly. I am truely sorry for Annie's passing but I hate to see someone blame her death on Dr. Aguirre and his staff. It is sad... Neisha Shawnee, OK To learn more about Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace services, please click Request Info . Awards & Media Coverage Local Attractions Ensenada , Baja California, Mexico Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico, is located 70 miles south of San Diego California, (90 minutes driving distance). It is a beautiful trip, with a view of the Pacific ocean almost all the way. The main attractions in Ensenada are vineyards, museums, whale watching, La Bufadora (the blowhole) and beautiful beaches. It is also one of the most important ports on the Pacific Rim. The Ensenada area has several celebrated surfing spots, such as San Miguel Beach and Todos Santos Island. Further south in the municipality are spots famous for their excellent windsurfing. The world-renowned Baja 1000 off-road race is held in Ensenada every year in late November, while the Baja 500 race is held in early June. Off-road enthusiasts use Ensenada year-round as a starting point to explore Baja California. Ensenada offers all of the services you would expect in a big town. Supermarkets, hospitals, plenty of shopping, and much more. The large harbor is the third largest seaport in Baja, and fishing is a big industry here. We can arrange your visit to all these places with a personal driver for a nominal fee. We can also give you a full and complete tour at a great price. We are here to guide and make yourself comfortable while you stay in Ensenada. LA BUFADORA (The blowhole) La Bufadora, a natural blowhole on the coast, is a short drive south of the city. The drive itself is reason enough to go, the scenery in this part of the world is second to none in it's beauty. The area itself is usually crawling with tourists but it's still a beautiful and impressive site. La Bufadora is about thirty minutes south of Ensenada in a seemingly remote section of Pacific coastline. There are several shops & restaurants. You will also find three observation decks, and plenty of steps and short walls to sit on to keep you safe from the Pacific Ocean 'spray'. If you like to get into the thick of things, go to the middle observation deck and hang over the wall with everyone else. From there, you can look down about 45 feet into what looks like a rock crevice about 10 feet wide. The crevice, however, is actually the mouth of a cave, and as the waves recede from the cave it fills with air. When the waves come back in, the water entering the cave compresses the air until it explodes, blowing the water as high as 90 feet into the air. Granted, that isn't a terribly scientific explanation, but it gives you some idea, and it depends on the tide conditions as to how far the water will actually shoot up in the air. You might have to wait five or six minutes between swells, and if you're impatient you might give up and walk away just before the show starts, so stick around a while:-) ENSENADA SHOPPING Bargain hunting in Ensenada is easy. Ensenada is bustling with wide Avenues crammed with shoppers scrambling for Baja's famous bargains. Everybody has them. Just take a look at the shops along First Street. It's a colorful slice of Mexican curio life. For items a cut above the curio class, take a meander down Avenida Ruiz. You'll find dazzling quality gifts for every description. Sidewalk cafes vie for your patronage... and there is nothing quite like a late afternoon lunch with a refreshing glass of wine or an icy cold beer at one of these establishments. The gentle sea breezes rustling through the leaves of the boulevard while you dine is an unforgettable experience. When you finish your shopping, take time out for a cool one at the famous Hussong's cantina (founded in 1892.) It's a raucous place but lots of fun, a trip to Ensenada is not complete without a visit to Hussong's cantina. To learn more about Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace services, please click Request Info . PlacidWay.com provides information and travel related services.  We do not provide health care services.  We provide information solely for informational purposes and do not endorse any particular health care provider or facility or any particular health care service or treatment.  We are not affiliated with any health care provider or service and we are not responsible for any health care service.  Please consult with your own domestic licensed health care provider before seeking the services of any health care provider you learn about via our site. Related Medical Tourism Articles • The Trend in Medical Tourism for Expats • The Increase in Travel to International Medical Destinations • Upcoming Trends in Bariatric Surgery • Making Choices: Lap Band Vs. Gastric Sleeve • Obesity Continues to Rise: Alarming Statistics Promote Change • The 3rd Annual World Medical Tourism & Global Health Congress is pleased to announce Fundación Exportar Argentina as a Silver Sponsor • Saving Big on Top 7 Medical Procedures Overseas • Medical Tourism: Why So Popular? • Dr. Alejandro Aguirre Wallace Offers Hope Through Bariatric Surgery • Obesity Surgery in Mexico Offers the Latest in Weight Loss Treatments and Procedures • Gastric Bypass Surgery in Mexico with Dr Alejandro Aguirre Wallace Search Keywords Obesity/Bariatric Surgery in Mexico , Best Morbid Obesity Surgery Hospital, Laparoscopic Obesity Surgery Center, Affordable Gastric Bypass Surgery Clinic, Lap Band Surgery Treatment, Bariatric Surgery Cost, Top Qualified Gastric Bypass Surgery Doctor, Benefits of Sleeve Gastrectomy, Ensenada, Mexico No reviews yet Write a review Our Packages Welcome to your change!  Low Cost Bariatric Surgery from $6300 Center Testimonial OutStanding Bariatric Surgery Results Healthcare Features Obesity/Bariatric Surgery Weight Loss Program Follow Us On: Treatment: Alternative Medicine Treatment Abroad | Anti-Aging Treatment Abroad | Ayurveda Treatment Abroad | Cancer Treatment Abroad | Chronic Diseases Treatment Abroad | Cosmetic/Plastic Surgery Treatment Abroad | Dentistry Treatment Abroad | Detox Treatment Abroad | ENT Treatment Abroad | Executive Healthcheck Treatment Abroad | Eye/Lasik Care Treatment Abroad | Fertility Treatment Abroad | Gynecology Treatment Abroad | Heart Care/Surgery Treatment Abroad | Infertility | IVF Treatment Abroad | Laparoscopic Surgery Treatment Abroad | Medical Spa Treatment Abroad | Neurology Treatment Abroad | Obesity/Bariatric Surgery Treatment Abroad | Orthopedic/Knee Surgery Treatment Abroad | Pediatric Treatment Abroad | Rehabilitation Treatment Abroad | Skin Care Treatment Abroad | Spine Care | Surgery Treatment Abroad | Sports Medicine Treatment Abroad | Stem Cell Therapy Treatment Abroad | Urology Treatment Abroad | Vascular Surgery Treatment Abroad | Yoga/Meditation Treatment Abroad | PlacidWay: Home | About Us | F.A.Q | Site Map | Contact Us Find a Provider: Browse by Treatment | Browse by Destination ©PlacidWay, LLC 2007 - 2012. All Rights Reserved Resources: Articles/Press Releases | Destinations | Events | Industry News | Medical Tourism Blog | Travel Planning | Treatments | Videos For Providers: Marketing Programs | Affiliate Program | Submit Your Listing | Consulting Services Other Links: Health S