Vary: Accept-Encoding

Herbs: Ginkgo Properties Overview | Herbs Menu | Quiz | Help Shortcuts... Overview History Trends Definitions Quality The label Interactions Counseling Information Botanical Name: Ginkgo biloba Plant Family: Ginkgoaceae Synonyms: Adiantifolia, Bai Guo Ye, Fossil Tree, Gingko, Ginkgo Biloba, Ginkgo Folium, Ginkgo leaf, Ginkgo leaf extract, Ginko Biloba, Ginkyo, Japanese Silver Apricot, Kew Tree, Maidenhair Tree, Salisburia, Salisburia Adiantifolia, Yinhsing. Back to  Case Study: Symptoms... Description Constituents/Composition Parts Clinical Pharmacology Medicinal Uses/Indications Dosage and Administration Adverse Reactions Contraindications Warnings and Precautions Interactions and Depletions How Supplied Description The ginkgo tree, Ginkgo biloba, is the last remaining member of the Ginkgoaceae family.  Ginkgo biloba have survived unchanged for over 200 million years.  The tree was originally found in China, but was brought to Europe in 18th century.  It later became popular in the United States, France, Japan and South Korea. There is a large body of literature stating that GBE (Ginkgo biloba extract) is effective in disorders associated with decreased cerebral blood flow such as short-term memory loss, dizziness, tinnitus, depression, headache.  There are a number of other conditions that can be treated by Ginkgo biloba. Constituents/Composition In Germany standardized to 22-27% ginkgo flavonoids and 5-7% terpenoids Flavone glycosides Diterpene lactones (ginkgetin, ginkgolic acid, and isoginkgetin) Ginkgolides (lactone derivatives -- ginkgolide A, B, C, J, and M) Bilobalide (15-carbon sesquiterpene) Ascorbic acid, catechin, iron-based superoxide dismutase, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, protocatechuic acid, shikimic acid, sterols, vanillic acid Parts Used/Pharmaceutical Designation Ginkgo fruits and seeds have been used medicinally in China since 2800 BC, but Western medicine stated to use extract of leaves only in the last 20 years. Clinical Pharmacology GBE has antioxidant activities by serving as a free-radical scavenger.  It produces arterial and venous changes increasing cerebral blood flow and decreasing blood vessel spasm.  Ginkgo decreases viscosity of the blood through its effects on platelet aggregation.  It helps to decrease progression of tissue degeneration in patients with dementia and similar conditions.  Anti-inflammatory effects produce positive effects on patients with allergies, asthma, bronchitis and other inflammatory processes. Medicinal Uses/Indications Impaired cerebral circulation Mild to moderate degenerative dementia (cognitive deficits) including symptoms of memory deficit, disturbances in concentration, depressive emotional condition Impaired arterial circulation in the extremities Intermittent claudication (pain in calf muscles while walking, due to impaired circulation) Macular degeneration Asthma Tinnitus, vertigo, headaches Sexual dysfunction secondary to SSRI's Dosage and Administration For dementia symptoms, the recommended dose is 120 to 240 mg by mouth daily in two to three divided doses.  For peripheral arterial disease, vertigo and tinnitus, the recommended dose is 120 to 160 mg by mouth daily in two or three divided doses.  The minimum duration of therapy is 4 to 8 weeks of daily use.
The typical starting dose for reversing sexual dysfunction due to SSRIs is 60 mg twice daily.  It can be titrated up to 240 mg twice daily. Adverse Reactions Mild gastrointestinal irritation - diarrhea, flatulence, vomiting Headache Allergic skin reactions -- contact hypersensitivity reactions Bleeding (subdural hematoma, hyphema) Seizures (with excessive ingestion of seeds) Contraindications Patient should avoid ingesting raw fruits or leaves due to high concentration of ginkgolic acid. Ginkgo biloba should not be used intravenously due to severe adverse effects. Consult your physician if using concurrently with anticoagulant or NSAID medication.  Ginkgo biloba can exacerbate bleeding disorders. Patients with seizures should avoid ginkgo or use extreme caution while taking the herb due to reports of seizures associated with use of the plant. Warnings and Precautions Pregnancy and Nursing Mothers Avoid using in pregnancy and lactation due to insufficient availability of reliable information. Interactions and Depletions Enhances effects of anticoagulant and antiplatelet agents Alters insulin secretion and metabolism affecting blood glucose levels Ginkgo potentiates effects of monoamine oxidase inhibitors Ginkgo can increase blood pressure when used together with thiazide diuretics Case report of ginkgo and trazodone co-administration: patient became comatose, reversed by administration of flumazenil. How Supplied Ginkgo biloba extract is available in capsules and tablets (30mg, 40 mg, 60 mg, 120 mg, 260 mg, 420 mg), as well as sublingual spray (15 mg/ spray, 40 mg/ spray). References Back to  Case Study: Symptoms... Choose another herb.... Asian Ginseng Saw Palmetto Echinacea Garlic Ginger Ginkgo Kava Milk Thistle Saw Palmetto St. John's Wort pc games downloadable games simulation games pc game downloads downloadable pc games time management games best pc games match 3 games management games brain teaser games hidden