Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Diabetes Information Diabetes Symptoms ⁄ Type
      1 ⁄ Type
      2 ⁄ Diabetes
      Supplies ⁄ Diets ⁄ Medicine www.sugardiabetes.net Sugar Diabetes What are the Symptoms of Diabetes ? Diabetes Medicine Diabetes Supplies Contact Us Site Map You are here: Sugar Diabetes | Diabetes Information Snippets of
      Diabetes Information Any information given on
                www.sugardiabetes.net is to be used for
                educational and information purposes only. It
                should never be substituted for the medical
                advice from your own doctor or other health
                care professionals. Diabetes information posted on 28th
      Decemebr 2007 - Link between Alzheimer's disease and diabetes
- Researchers at Northwestern University in
the U.S. claim that insulin resistance could be triggering
Alzheimer’s disease. They claim that people with
Alzheimer’s have a particular protein that binds to the nerve
endings of the brain causing insulin resistance, which prevents
sufferers from storing and recalling memories. The link is seen
to be so strong that scientists have begun to call Alzheimer’s
‘Type 3 diabetes’. More research is needed to determine whether
or not diabetes drugs could be used to treat
Alzheimer’s. Diabetes information posted on 22nd
      Decemebr 2007 - Fifteen year study into type 1 diabetes
      triggers - A worldwide study into the causes of type 1
      diabetes in childhood is due to begin at a medical
      college in Georgia. The study, named TEDDY or ‘The
      Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young’ will
      monitor eight thousand high risk babies in four U.S.
      states and three other countries. Blood will be taken
      from the subjects every three months for fifteen years,
      from which RNA and DNA will be collected. The children
      will be closely monitored to establish environmental
      factors that may provide a trigger for type 1
      diabetes Diabetes information posted on 26th
      November 2007 - JDRF added to
      Community Health Charities of Kentucky - The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
has been selected to join the Community Health Charities of
Kentucky, along with four other agencies; the Kentucky &
Southern Indiana Stroke Association, Ovarian Awareness of
Kentucky, Sickle Cell Association of Kentuckiana and the
Special Olympics Kentucky. This will provide a huge
boost to JDRF in the area, as the Community Health Charities of
Kentucky raises funds on behalf of its members to pay for
public education, medical research and patient
support Diabetes information posted on 23rd
      November 2007 - Teenage Diabetics
      Can Benefit From A Personal Trainer - The National Institute of Health has
sponsored a trial that enables insulin dependent teenagers to
have one on one coaching sessions with a personal
trainer. The aim
of these sessions is to teach teenagers how to personally
manage their diabetes and maintain a healthy blood
sugar. The areas
covered by coaching include self monitoring, goal setting and
problem solving. Individual training sessions seem to be more motivating and
more effective than traditional methods of providing medical
advice. Diabetes information posted on 19th
      November 2007 - Fewer People with
      Diabetes Developing Heart Disease
      - Several studies by the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control (CDC) indicate that the number of diabetics
developing heart disease is reducing. There has been an 11%
decrease in the incidence of heart disease among diabetics over
thirty-five years of age in the last eight
      years. Whilst this may be partly due to a decrease in risk
      factors such as smoking, high blood pressure and high
      cholesterol, the CDC believes the main reason is that
      diabetics have better control of their blood sugar and
      are monitoring their glucose levels more
      frequently. Diabetes information posted on 16th
      November 2007 - AtheroGenics
      limit their diabetic drug trial
      - After concerns about its effect on the liver,
      AtheroGenics are stopping their trials involving a 300mg
      dose of its experimental diabetes drug AGI-1067. After
      discussions with U.S. Health regulators, the company has
      agreed to cease trialing the 300mg dose of the drug but
      will continue their experiments with 75mg and 150mg
      doses. Diabetes information posted on 14th
      November 2007 - Study concludes
      drug can reduce diabetic eye problems
      - A five year study at the University of Sydney
      has concluded that the drug fenofibrate can help to
      reduce vision loss and blindness associated with type 2
      diabetes. Nearly ten thousand diabetic adults between
      fifty and seventy five were involved in the study, taking
      either a 200mg daily dose of fenofibrate or a
      placebo. The
      diabetics taking fenofibrate were 30% less likely to need
      laser therapy for macular edema or proliferative diabetic
      retinopathy, common causes of sight loss in diabetics,
      than those that took the
      placebo. Diabetes information posted on 11th
      October 2007 - Gestational diabetes linked to
      increased cancer risk - Pancreatic cancer has already been
      linked to type 2 diabetes, but now U.S. and Israeli
      researchers have suggested a link to gestational
      diabetes. Gestational diabetes appears to be on therise
      as obesity rates increase, making this a particularly
      worrying discovery. Pancreatic cancer is often diagnosed
      too late for effective treatment and only about 5% of
      people with the disease survive for over five years.
      Around 200,000 new cases of pancreatic cancer are
      diagnosed worldwide each year. Diabetes information posted on 8th
      October 2007 - Undiagnosed diabetes has reduced significantly in
American men - Research based on U.S. Government health
surveys has shown that the number of American men with
undiagnosed diabetes has fallen dramatically within the last
three decades. Whilst 48% of male American diabetics were
unaware of their condition between 1976 and 1980, this figure
fell to 22% in the period 1999 to 2002. The study also
indicates that black or Hispanic American men are no longer any
more likely to unknowingly have the disease than white American
men. Diabetes information posted on 5th
      October 2007 - Results of long-lasting insulin trials not
totally positive - A three year trial at Oxford
University which has compared various types of insulin, has
concluded that long-lasting insulin is not a sufficient
diabetes treatment on its own.Although Levemir, or long-lasting
insulin, is associated with less weight gain and is
significantly less likely to cause low blood sugar, trials show
that patients are less likely to reach target blood sugar
levels than with shorter acting products. The study has
concluded that Levemir is a useful base treatment, but can not
be used on its own. Diabetes information posted on 3rd
      October 2007 - Diabetics have higher risk of death from
pneumonia - A new study undertaken at Aarhus University
Hospital in Denmark suggests that diabetics have an increased
chance of dying if they have pneumonia. The study showed that
if a patient has ahigh blood sugar level when they are admitted
to hospital with pneumonia, they have a much higher risk of
dying from the illness. The findings come from a study of
nearly 30,000 adults who were hospitalized, for the first time,
for pneumonia between 1997 and 2004. The study recommends that
hospitals look at their procedures for treating diabetics who
are admitted with pneumonia. Diabetes information posted on 1st
      October 2007 - Insulin pen to replace the
syringe - Type 2 diabetics who need to begin
insulin treatment may soon be offered the use of a pre-loaded
insulin pen rather than a traditional syringe. Trials in New
York show that patients prefer the pen to a syringe as it is
easier to use and has a higher degree of accuracy. The pen will
also reduce spending on diabetes treatment as diabetics who use
the pen make fewer trips to their doctor or to the
hospital. Diabetes information posted on 29th
      September 2007 - Diabetics are
more likely to fracture a hip than the rest of the American
population - t he risk of suffering
from a hip fracture increases by 70% if you are type 1 or type
2 diabetic. Experts have suggested several possible reasons for
this. Itmay be that impaired bone quality is responsible for
many fractures, but loss of sight or difficulties walking due
to diabetes related neuropathy also play a role. In addition
diabetics frequently fracture their hips if they feint due to
low blood sugar. Diabetes
      information posted on 21st September 2007
      - Correlation found between diabetes and wealth in
America - Recent statistics published by the Agency
for Healthcare Research and Quality show that Americans from
poor communities are 80% more likely to be hospitalized for
diabetes treatment than those from more affluent areas. The
figures classify an affluent community as one that has an
average annual income exceeding $61,000, and a poorer community
as one where the population earns an average of less than
$37,000. Diabetes
      information posted on 16th September 2007
      - Advance study
      recommends drugs to reduce death from diabetes - Taking a
      combination of blood pressure lowering drugscan reduce
      the possibility of early death, heart disease, and kidney
      disease for diabetics, according to a study at the
      University of Sydney. Both type 1 and type 2 diabetics
      are at a high risk of death from these diseases, but
      recent research shows that taking a regular dose of
      perindopril combined with indapamide can dramatically
      reduce this risk. Diabetes information posted on 12th
      September 2007 - Treating
      sleep apnoea can assist in diabetes
      control - Over a third of type 2 diabetics, also
      suffer from sleep apnoea, according to the Whittier
      Institute for Diabetes in California. Sleep apnoea
      sufferers wake several times during the night due to
      impaired breathing resulting from collapsed airways,
      which leads to intense daily fatigue. This study
      recommended that type 2 diabetics should be regularly
      screened for sleep apnoea as treating this condition can
      assist with blood sugar control. Diabetes information posted on 8th
      September 2007 - Exercise is crucial for diabetic
children - Children with type 1 diabetes can
limit the long term effects of their condition by taking regular exercise. A study
undertaken in Leverkusen, Germany, looked at almost 2,500
children with juvenile diabetes, and discovered that those who
were the most active had the best overall blood sugar control.
Controlling blood sugar through exercise can reduce the risk of
developing heart and blood vessel diseases, and can help to
maintain healthy blood pressure and cholesterol
levels. Diabetes information posted on 7th
      September 2007 - Pumpkins are not just for
Halloween - Recent studies have shown that
eating pumpkin extract could enable diabetics to reduce the
amount of insulin they take each day. A study of diabetic rats
in China has shown that pumpkin extract promotes the
regeneration of damaged cells in the pancreas, leading to an
increase in insulin production. Diabetes information posted on 5th
      September 2007 - Congress members experience a day with
diabetes - Two members of congress recently
took part in a ‘Day with Diabetes’ in conjunction with the
American Diabetes Association. During the day Rep. Michael
Castle and Rep. Zack Space took‘medication’, performed finger
stick tests, and followed a special meal plan, as well as
consulting diabetes specialists about their supposed condition.
The event was designed to raise awareness of diabetes in
Congress and to help people to understand the impact of this
ever increasing disease on the American population. Diabetes information posted on 4th
      September 2007 - Clinical
      study into the impact of DHA on Type 1 diabetes - The Joslin Diabetes Center are currently
      undertaking a long term study into the possibility that
      the dietary supplement DHA could delay or prevent the
      onset of Type 1 diabetes. DHA is found
      naturally in breast milk and a number of other
      foods. It is believed that when taken
      by pregnant mothers or young babies, DHA could decrease
      the chances of developing type 1 diabetes in people who
      are at a high risk from this disease. Diabetes information posted on 3rd
      September 2007 - Diabetes supply giant bought for $1.3 billion - It was announced on August 28 th that Medco Health Solutions Inc. has agreed a $1.3 billion deal
to buy Polymedica Corp. Medco Health
Solutions Inc. is the largest manager of drug benefits in the
U.S, while Polymedica is the country’s biggest supplier of
glucose testing equipment for diabetics. Diabetes information posted on 31st
      August 2007 - Treat
      gestational diabetes to cut childhood obesity - Babies born to mothers with gestational
      diabetes have a higher than average risk of becoming
      obese during childhood. The higher a mother’s blood sugar
      is during pregnancy, the greater the risk for the child.
      As a study published in Diabetes Care has shown,
      effectively treating gestational diabetes with a healthy
      diet and insulin or other diabetes treatment drugs,
      should dramatically reduce the risk of childhood
      obesity. © Copyright 2007 -
www.sugardiabetes.net - Diabetes
Information Sugar Diabetes Sugar & Diabetics Information about Diabetes What are the Symptoms of Diabetes ? What is Diabetes Type 1 ? What is Diabetes Type 2 ? Gestational Diabetes Diabetes Nutrition Diabetes Medicine Diabetes Medicines Diabetes Diets Diabetes and Hearing Loss Diabetes Supplies Diabetic Foot Care Diabetic Foot Cream Shoes for Diabetics Diabetic Socks Diabetic Shoe Inserts Diabetes Management Diabetes and Cinnamon Insurances - Health, Travel, Life Insurance for Diabetics Snippets of Diabetes Information Article Directory Diabetes and Nutrition Gestational Diabetes Diet New Diabetes Diet Diabetes Treatment Drugs Diabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Diet Insulin Cell Transplant Therapy Glossary Medical Disclaimer Privacy Policy Copyright Disclaimer Health Resources Other Useful Websites Contact Us Site Map Menu Other Items Menu Sugar Diabetes Sugar & Diabetics Information about Diabetes What are the Symptoms of Diabetes ? What is Diabetes Type 1 ? What is Diabetes Type 2 ? Gestational Diabetes Diabetes Nutrition Diabetes Medicine ◦ Diabetes Medicines Diabetes Diets Diabetes and Hearing Loss Diabetes Supplies Diabetic Foot Care ◦ Diabetic Foot Cream ◦ Shoes for Diabetics ◦ Diabetic Socks ◦ Diabetic Shoe Inserts Diabetes Management Diabetes and Cinnamon Insurances - Health, Travel, Life Insurance for Diabetics Snippets of Diabetes Information Article Directory ◦ Diabetes and Nutrition ◦ Gestational Diabetes Diet ◦ New Diabetes Diet ◦ Diabetes Treatment Drugs ◦ Diabetes Insulin Pump ◦ Diabetes Diet ◦ Insulin Cell Transplant Therapy Glossary Other Items Medical Disclaimer Privacy Policy Copyright Disclaimer Health Resources Other Useful Websites Contact Us Site Map Sugar Diabetes Sugar & Diabetics Information about Diabetes What are the Symptoms of Diabetes ? What is Diabetes Type 1 ? What is Diabetes Type 2 ? Gestational Diabetes Diabetes Nutrition Diabetes Medicine Diabetes Medicines Diabetes Diets Diabetes and Hearing Loss Diabetes Supplies Diabetic Foot Care Diabetic Foot Cream Shoes for Diabetics Diabetic Socks Diabetic Shoe Inserts Diabetes Management Diabetes and Cinnamon Insurances - Health, Travel, Life Insurance for Diabetics Snippets of Diabetes Information Article Directory Diabetes and Nutrition Gestational Diabetes Diet New Diabetes Diet Diabetes Treatment Drugs Diabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Diet Insulin Cell Transplant Therapy Glossary Medical Disclaimer Privacy Policy Copyright Disclaimer Health Resources Other Useful Websites Contact Us Site Map © Copyright
2009 ,