Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 20 Jan 2010 16:04:50 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "bcd5814bea99ca1:55d7a"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 11:08:06 GMT
Connection: close

::: Procalcitonin may help guide antibiotic therapy for pneumonia  
:::: Taj For Doctors.com :::: Taj Pharmaceuticals Ltd. :  Procalcitonin 
testing can reduce the length of antibiotic treatment for patients with 
suspected community-acquired pneumonia, mainly by permitting tailored treatment 
and earlier discontinuation of antibiotics, new findings indicate. T About Us Taj 
          Brands Diseases Health 
          Tips HIV/AIDS News Contact 
          Us Taj Doctors All News Allergy Asthma Cardiology Clinical Research Critical Care Dentistry Dermatology Endocrinology Gastroenterology General Genetics / Biotech Men's Health Infectious Diseases Fitness/Lifestyle Nephrology Neurology Oncology/Haematology Ophthalmology Orthopaedics Otolaryngology Paediatrics Psychiatry Reproductive Health Respiratory Medicine Surgery Sex Urology Women's Health PRESS News The premier health and medical 
                      news on the Internet Procalcitonin may help guide antibiotic therapy for 
                      pneumonia Last Updated: 
                      2006-07-14 17:20:35 -0400 By ***** NEW YORK  
                      - Procalcitonin testing can reduce the length of 
                      antibiotic treatment for patients with suspected 
                      community-acquired pneumonia, mainly by permitting 
                      tailored treatment and earlier discontinuation of 
                      antibiotics, new findings indicate. Circulating levels of procalcitonin are elevated in 
                      bacterial infections and its dynamics have prognostic 
                      implications, note Dr. Beat Muller from University 
                      Hospital Basel, Switzerland and colleagues in the first 
                      issue for July of the American Journal of Respiratory and 
                      Critical Care Medicine. In a previous study, the investigators showed that 
                      procalcitonin testing was useful in differentiating lower 
                      respiratory tract infections that require antibiotic 
                      therapy from infections that do not. In the current study, using a sensitive rapid assay for 
                      procalcitonin, the team evaluated the ability of 
                      procalcitonin to guide initiation and duration of 
                      antibiotic therapy in 302 consecutive patients with 
                      suspected CAP. The patients had similar clinical, 
                      laboratory, and microbiology characteristics, and 
                      Pneumonia Severity Index scores at baseline. Half of the patients received antibiotics according to 
                      usual practice (the control group), while the other half 
                      received antibiotic therapy based on serum procalcitonin 
                      levels. Antibiotics were strongly discouraged if the procalcitonin 
                      level was 0.1 µg/L or lower; discouraged for levels lower 
                      than 0.25 µg/L; encouraged for levels greater than 0.25 
                      µg/L; and strongly encouraged for levels greater than 0.5 
                      µg/L.Antibiotics were withheld on admission in 15% of 
                      patients in the procalcitonin group due to very low 
                      procalcitonin levels, consistent with the absence of 
                      bacterial infection. According to the team, procalcitonin 
                      guidance significantly reduced total antibiotic exposure, 
                      "mainly by individually reducing the duration of 
                      antibiotic courses from a median of 12 days to 5 days." Supporting the safety of procalcitonin-guided antibiotic 
                      therapy, clinical and laboratory outcomes were similar 
                      between the groups; the overall success rate was 83%. In 
                      an editorial, Dr. Richard G. Wunderink of Northwestern 
                      University in Chicago notes that the "major finding" in 
                      this study was the ability of procalcitonin testing to 
                      decrease the duration of antibiotic therapy. "No other 
                      secondary variables, including hospital length of stay and 
                      mortality, were different when therapy was based on 
                      procalcitonin levels," he notes. However, 14-day treatment of CAP is no longer the 
                      standard, Dr. Wunderink points out, noting that newer 
                      guidelines recommend 7 days or less of antibiotics. 
                      Therefore, the use of procalcitonin-guided therapy is 
                      unlikely to have a major impact, if current guidelines are 
                      followed. "The major implication of this study," Dr. Wunderink 
                      writes, "is to support putting a cap on the duration of 
                      antibiotic therapy for CAP, similar to that of 
                      ventilator-associated pneumonia." The greatest clinical benefit of procalcitonin-directed 
                      therapy," he adds, "still appears to be in the selection 
                      of patients who may not need antibiotics at all, or at 
                      least, not beta-lactam antibiotics." Copyright © 2004- 2006 TAJ Pharmaceuticals Limited. All Rights 
    Reserved. Site 
      Requirements : Internet Explorer 5.0+ or Netscape 5.0+ , Flash Player 5.0 & Real Player 8 Basic To get in touch with us, call on 91-22-2637 4592, 91--22-2637 4593 or fax us at 
    91-22-2634 1274 Terms and 
    Conditi