Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatments for Urinary Incontinence in Women Source; National Kidney and Urologic
Diseases Information Clearinghouse (a service of the National Institutes of Health under the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services) Treatments for Urinary Incontinence in Women On this page: Behavioral Remedies: Bladder Retraining and Kegel Exercises Medicines for Overactive Bladder Electrical Stimulation for Nerve Problems Vaginal Devices for Stress Incontinence Injections for Stress Incontinence Surgery for Stress Incontinence Hope Through Research For More Information Front
  view of female urinary tract. Millions of women experience loss of bladder control, also called urinary incontinence (UI). Some women
may lose a few drops of urine while running or coughing. Others may feel a
strong, sudden urge to urinate just before losing a large amount of urine. UI
can be slightly bothersome or totally debilitating. For some women, the risk of
public embarrassment keeps them from enjoying many activities with their family
and friends. UI is a medical problem. Your doctor or nurse can help you
find a solution. No single treatment works for everyone, but most women can be
treated without surgery. The treatment you select depends on your lifestyle and
your preferences. Many women try the simpler treatment options first, such as
changing a few habits and doing exercises to strengthen the muscles that hold
urine in the bladder. If these behavioral treatments do not work, you may
choose to try medicines or vaginal devices. Sometimes mild electrical
stimulation to the pelvic nerves may help. And for some women, surgery is the
best solution. Behavioral Remedies: Bladder Retraining and Kegel Exercises Your doctor or nurse may ask you to keep a bladder diary—a
record of your fluid intake, trips to the bathroom, episodes of urine leakage,
and an estimate of the amount of leakage. By looking at this record, the doctor
may see a pattern and suggest making it a point to use the bathroom at regular
timed intervals, a habit called timed voiding. As you gain control, you can
extend the time between scheduled trips to the bathroom. Behavioral treatment
also includes Kegel exercises to strengthen the
muscles that help hold in urine. How do you do Kegel exercises? The first step is to find the right muscles. Imagine that
you are sitting on a marble and want to pick up the marble with your vagina.
Imagine "sucking" the marble into your vagina. Try not to squeeze other muscles at the same time. Be
careful not to tighten your stomach, legs, or buttocks. Squeezing the wrong
muscles can put more pressure on your bladder control muscles. Just squeeze the
pelvic muscles. Don't hold your breath. Do not practice while urinating. Repeat, but don't overdo it. At first, find a quiet spot to
practice—your bathroom or bedroom—so you can concentrate. Pull in the pelvic
muscles and hold for a count of 3. Then relax for a count of 3. Work up to 3
sets of 10 repeats. Start doing your pelvic muscle exercises lying down. This
is the easiest position to do them because the muscles do not need to work
against gravity. When your muscles get stronger, do your
exercises sitting or standing. Working against gravity is like adding
more weight. Be patient. Don't give up. It takes just 5 minutes a day.
You may not feel your bladder control improve for 3 to 6 weeks. Still, most
people do notice an improvement after a few weeks. Some people with nerve damage cannot tell whether they are
doing Kegel exercises correctly or not. If you are
not sure, ask your doctor or nurse to examine you while you try to do them. If
it turns out that you are not squeezing the right muscles, you may still be
able to learn proper Kegel exercises by doing special
training with biofeedback, electrical stimulation, or both. Medicines for Overactive Bladder Overactive bladder occurs when abnormal nerves send signals
to the bladder at the wrong time, causing its muscles to squeeze without
warning. Normal women may void up to 12 times a day, but women with overactive
bladder may find that they must urinate more frequently. Specifically, the
symptoms of overactive bladder include urinary frequency —urination
     13 or more times a day or 2 or more times at night urinary urgency —the
     sudden, strong need to urinate immediately urge incontinence —leakage
     or gushing of urine that follows a sudden, strong urge If you have an overactive bladder, your doctor may
prescribe a medicine to block the nerve signals that cause frequent urination
and urgency. Drugs that relax muscles and prevent bladder spasms include oxybutynin chloride ( Ditropan )
and tolterodine tartrate ( Detrol ), which belong to the class of drugs called bladder
relaxants. Their most common side effect is dry mouth, although larger doses
may cause blurred vision, constipation, a faster heartbeat, and flushing. Ditropan XL and Detrol LA are
long-acting drugs that can be taken once a day. Imipramine hydrochloride ( Tofranil ), a tricyclic antidepressant that relaxes bladder muscles and
tightens urethral muscles, may be used instead of or in combination with Ditropan XL or Detrol LA. Side effects may include fatigue, dry mouth, dizziness, blurred
vision, nausea, and insomnia. If you take medicine to treat an overactive bladder, you
should take several precautions. Wear sunglasses if your eyes become more sensitive to light. Take care not to become overheated. Chew gum or suck on sugarless hard candy to avoid dry mouth. Different medicines can affect the nerves and muscles of
the urinary tract in different ways. Pills to treat swelling (edema) or high
blood pressure may increase your urine output and contribute to bladder control
problems. Talk with your doctor; you may find that taking an alternative to a
medicine you already take may solve the problem without adding another
prescription. Electrical Stimulation for Nerve Problems Mild electrical pulses can be used to stimulate the nerves
that control the bladder and sphincter muscles. Depending on which nerves the
doctor plans to treat, these pulses can be given through the vagina or by using
patches on the skin. Other forms of electrical stimulation or neuromodulation are also available. Front
  view of bladder. Weak pelvic muscles allow urine leakage. Strong
  pelvic muscles keep the urethra closed. Vaginal Devices for Stress Incontinence Stress incontinence is urine leakage that occurs when an
action puts pressure on the bladder. Laughing, sneezing, coughing, rising from
a chair, lifting an object, and running can all cause the stomach muscles to
press down on the bladder and force urine out. Stress incontinence usually
results from weak pelvic muscles, the muscles that hold the bladder in place
and keep urine inside. A pessary is a stiff ring that is
inserted by a doctor or nurse into the vagina, where it presses against the
wall of the vagina and the nearby urethra. The pressure helps reposition the
urethra, leading to less stress leakage. If you use a pessary ,
you should watch for possible vaginal and urinary tract infections and see your
doctor regularly. Injections for Stress Incontinence Collagen, one of the bulking agents used for injections, is
a natural tissue from cows. It is injected into tissues around the bladder neck
and urethra to add bulk and close the bladder opening to reduce stress
incontinence. After using local anesthesia or sedation, a doctor can inject the
material in about half an hour. Over time, the body slowly eliminates the
collagen, so you may need repeat injections. Before
you receive collagen, a doctor will perform a skin test to determine whether
you could have an allergic reaction to the material. A variety of bulking
agents are available for injection. Your doctor will discuss which one may be
best for you. Surgery for Stress Incontinence In some women, the bladder can move out of its normal
position, especially following childbirth. Surgeons have developed different
techniques for supporting the bladder in its normal position. The two main
types of surgery are retropubic suspension and the
sling procedure. Retropubic suspension uses sutures (surgical threads) to support the bladder
neck. The threads are secured to the pubic bone and other structures within the
pelvis to form a cradle for the bladder. To place the sutures, the surgeon
makes an incision in the abdomen a few inches below the navel. Sling procedures are performed through a vaginal incision.
The conventional sling procedure uses a strip of material to support the
bladder neck. The sling may be made of natural tissue or synthetic (man-made)
material. Both ends of the sling are attached to the pubic bone or tied in
front of the abdomen just above the pubic bone. Another sling method uses a
synthetic tape, but the ends are not tied but rather pulled up above the pubic
bone. Surgeons report that the retropubic suspension and sling procedures cure stress incontinence for at least 4 years
in more than 80 percent of their cases. Possible side effects include
persistent stress incontinence, bladder overactivity ,
and voiding changes. Talk with your doctor about whether surgery will help your
condition and what type of surgery is best for you. The procedure you choose
may depend on your own preferences or on your surgeon's experience. Ask what
you should expect after the procedure. You may also wish to talk to someone who
has recently had the procedure. Side
  view. Supporting sutures in place following retropubic or transvaginal suspension. Sling
  in place, secured to the pubic bone. Hope Through Research The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
Diseases (NIDDK) has many research programs aimed at
finding treatments for urinary disorders, including urinary incontinence. The
NIDDK is sponsoring the Urinary Incontinence Treatment Network, a multicenter study that will evaluate and compare treatment
methods for stress and mixed incontinence in women. The researchers have
established criteria for selecting patients and measuring results. The goal of
the study is to learn which treatment methods have the best short- and
long-term outcomes for treating stress urinary incontinence in women. For More Information American Foundation for Urologic Disease 1000 Corporate Boulevard Suite 410 Linthicum , MD 21090 Phone: 1–800–828–7866 or 410–689–3990 Email: admin@afud.org Internet: www.afud.org American Urogynecologic Society 2025 M Street, NW . Suite 800 Washington , DC 20036 Phone: 202–367–1167 Email: AUGS@dc.sba.com Internet: www.augs.org American Urological Association 1000 Corporate Boulevard Linthicum , MD 21090 Phone: 1–866–RING–AUA (746–4282) or 410–689–3700 Email: aua@auanet.org Internet: www.auanet.org National Kidney Foundation 30 East 33rd Street New York , NY 10016 Phone: 1–800–622–9010 Email: info@kidney.org Internet: www.kidney.org [ Top ] The U.S. Government does not endorse or favor any specific
commercial product or company. Trade, proprietary, or company names appearing
in this document are used only because they are considered necessary in the
context of the information provided. If a product is not mentioned, this does
not mean or imply that the product is unsatisfactory. National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse 3 Information Way Bethesda , MD 20892–3580 Email: nkudic@info.niddk.nih.gov The National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information
Clearinghouse (NKUDIC) is a service of the National Institute of Diabetes and
Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). The NIDDK is part of the National
Institutes of Health under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Established in 1987, the clearinghouse provides information about diseases of
the kidneys and urologic system to people with kidney and urologic disorders
and to their families, health care professionals, and the public. NKUDIC
answers inquiries, develops and distributes publications, and works closely
with professional and patient organizations and Government agencies to
coordinate resources about kidney and urologic diseases. Publications produced by the clearinghouse are carefully
reviewed by both NIDDK scientists and outside experts. This fact sheet was
reviewed by Ananias Diokno ,
M.D., William Beaumont Hospital , Royal Oak , MI ; and Linda Brubaker, M.D., Loyola University Medical Center , Maywood , IL . This e-text is not copyrighted. The clearinghouse
encourages users of this 