
Epilepsy Ontario :: Acupuncture Epilepsy Ontario Contact EO About EO Local Agencies Programs and Events Media Releases 'Sharing' Newsletter Volunteer Opportunites Disclaimer Search About Epilepsy General Information Types of Seizures Medications for Epilepsy Other Treatments Diagnosis Living with Epilepsy First Aid Videos About Epilepsy Our Resource Centre WWW Links How you can help Direct Donation Donate your car Donate your Shoppers Drug Mart points Products Safety Products Helmets Epilepsy Monitoring Systems More... Fundraising Products Lavender Cards Awareness Bracelets Awareness Keychains More... Feedback Questions, Comments, or Suggestions are always appreciated! Site Map Search: Back to Treatment Alternative & Complementary Therapies (kit) Acupressure Acupuncture Aromatherapy Biofeedback Chiropractic Cranio Sacral Therapy Diets & Supplements Herbs Hyperbaric Oxygen Treatment Magnetic Stimulation Reflexology Relaxation Techniques Therapeutic Touch Homeopathy Behavioural Therapy Enzyme Therapy Stones, Bracelets & Amulets Supplements Ketogenic Diet Acupuncture Acupuncture was first introduced as a therapy to treat epilepsy in 1972 to the American public. The technique of acupuncture has been used in China for thousands of years. Ancient Chinese medical theory states that the life force (ch'i or qi) flows through the body along fourteen invisible channels (meridians), each associated with organs of the body. Stimulating these points is said to balance or restore the flow of life force. The procedure is performed by inserting stainless steel needles into the body at various acupuncture sites. The depth of the insertion depends upon the area being treated. The needles may be left in place for up to 30 minutes, stimulated by hand or by an electrically operated needle holder. While the exact scientific mechanism by which acupuncture works is not known, it has been suggested that it may trigger the release of natural pain-killing substances (endorphins) within the body or it may alter the body's output of neurotransmitters. It is important to obtain a qualified and reputable practitioner because side effects, such as bleeding or damage to organs, nerves, and tissues can occur if performed improperly.   Some acupuncturists use traditional Chinese medicine, including herbal remedies, in their treatment. Since herbal remedies are used, your medical doctor should be notified of the treatment because the herbs may contain chemicals that can alter the effectiveness of anti-seizure drugs.  Keep in mind that researchers have been unable to prove that acupuncture provides a beneficial effect in the treatment of epilepsy; however, acupuncture may be effective in reducing stress and anxiety. For More Information Acupuncture Foundation of Canada Institute 416-752-3988 http://www.afcinstitute.com To submit questions, comments, or suggestio