ETag: "0cedc4fcb84cc1:15e1"
Last-Modified: Fri, 07 Oct 2011 08:30:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close

Complications of Whooping Cough Search
        Knowledgebase Topic Contents Topic Overview Related Information Credits Complications of Whooping Cough Topic Overview Complications that can develop from whooping cough include lung infection ( pneumonia ), pulmonary hypertension , ear infections , seizures , weight loss, dehydration , or exertion-related injuries from severe
		coughing (such as cracked ribs or a hernia ). When these complications are severe, they may
		require additional treatment or hospitalization. Pneumonia and other types of
		lung infections or problems may be treated with antibiotics, oxygen, and
		assisted ventilation. Improved treatment procedures have made complications of whooping
		cough less threatening than in the past. But the disease and its complications
		remain a serious health issue, especially for children younger than 4 months of
		age. Adults ages 60 and older also are at increased risk for severe symptoms
		and complications. Related Information Whooping Cough (Pertussis) Credits By Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer Susan C. Kim, MD - Pediatrics Primary Medical Reviewer Donald Sproule, MD, CM, CCFP, FCFP - Family Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer Christine Hahn, MD - Epidemiology Last Revised February 26, 2010 Top of Page Next Section: Related Information Previous Section: Topic Overview Top of Page Next Section: Credits Previous Section: Related Information Top of Page Last Revised: February 26, 2010 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: Susan C. Kim, MD - Pediatrics & Donald Sproule, MD, CM, CCFP, FCFP - Family Medicine & Christine Hahn, MD - Epidemiology Print Help This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2011 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the