Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Brave-Souls.com - Fighting Cancer Around the World 返回中文版 Return to the Chinese version 读者如发现有错误的地方，希望能通知本网站以便改正，感激不尽。读者如要应用这些资料，请先参考原书。 Please inform this web site for correction if you discover any error. Your participation is greatly appreciated. If you wish to use the information here, please first refer to the original reference 中文篇将在不久登载 Chinese version will be published soon Animal Test Using Amygdalin and apricot kernel 美国早期动物肿瘤实验利用北杏和从北杏提炼出来的amydalin 的报告 There were two animal tests on the use of amygdalin in cancer treatment and of amygdalin-rich food in cancer prevention. In the first test, Dr. Harold Manner, professor of the Biology Department of Loyola University of Chicago, reported in early 1978 his 100% positive response to the cancer treatment of experimental mice with spontaneous breast cancer. Dr. Manner used a combination of amygdalin, emulsified vitamin A, and proteolytic enzymes on 84 experimental mice that had spontaneous (natural occurring) breast cancer.  Within 4 to 6 weeks of treatment, 75 of the mice underwent complete regression, and 9 of the remaining were in the process of partial regression when the experiment was terminated at the end of 8th week.  This indicated 90% total control and 10% partial control of the cancer.  It also indicated 100% positive response to the treatment. Dr. Manner in a latter experiment show that any one of the three components alone, or any of the two in the combination was not as effective as all the three combined..  He also showed the the more advance the cancer disease before treatment, the less effective would be the treatment. In the second animal test, Vern van Breeman, a veteran biologist and biomedical researcher at Salisbury State College, Maryland, revealed in 1977 the early results of his animal test in the use of apricot kernel, which is very rich in amygdalin, to prevent cancer.  In van Breeman’s own words during an interview: “About a year ago, I set up an experiment with two special strains of mice from Jackson Memorial Laboratory at Bar Harbor, Maine, one which spontaneously produces mammary carcinomas and another which spontaneously develops leukemia.  This is a pilot experiment to compare the occurrence of leukemia and tumors in mice fed the usual laboratory diet and mice fed the usual diet supplemented with apricot kernel. “So far, seven animals in the control group have died of leukemia and five have died of mammary carcinoma.  None have died from these diseases in the apricot kernel-fed animals.  This is a significant difference ━ but it must be recognized that these are preliminary results, not definitive yet.  The study is being continued and will be expanded to test factors more definitively.” 返回此页顶端  Return to the t