Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Finding a Natural Cough Medicine that Works Finding a Natural Cough Medicine that Works Are you seeking a form of natural cough medicine or remedy to provide relief? When the seasons change, coughing and colds typically occur. Whether caused by allergies or illness, coughing can keep you up at night, make your head pound, and in some cases even lead to vomiting. Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences or Read Others' Contributions Click here for more pages and articles on Cough . A note about Finding a Natural Cough Medicine that Works In natural health and healing , we believe in holistic health and healing , as we realize that different parts of the human body are highly interlinked, often beyond Man's understanding. We also believe that the body has the ability to heal itself of any disease , even supposedly incurable diseases . In order to do so, the body needs the support of some basic dietary and lifestyle good health habits , such as a full body detox and a proper understanding and application of nutrition . No matter how remote or unrelated a health condition may seem, these fundamental health steps will greatly magnify the effects and benefits of any of our health-promoting efforts, including the use of specific natural health remedies . Although, most of the time, we want to suppress coughs, coughing can sometimes be a way of getting rid of a substance that is causing irritation. Sometimes, a cough can be used to clear out a build up of phlegm. For that reason, instead of suppressing the cough, it is more desirable to encourage the cough as a means to expectorate the phlegm that is causing the problem. While stores and pharmacies are abundant with cough medicines, you can actually make your own natural cough medicine at home that could be just as effective, if not better. Apple cider vinegar has many uses in the natural health world. It can also be used as a natural cough medicine. Although it's not as strong as pure vinegar, it is still fairly acidic. Try mixing one cup of apple cider vinegar with one cup of apple juice. As an added sweetener, you can also add honey to the mix. If it is still too strong, you can also gargle with straight apple cider vinegar. Just don't forget to spit it out. Apple cider vinegar can also be good if you have an infection in your throat. Infections are generally frightened off by acid, and while the acidity level of apple cider vinegar is low, it can still be helpful. Lemon tea can also be used as a natural cough medicine. Lemon tea can typically be found at most natural health food stores. Add a little bit of honey to it, as well as a lemon slice, and make sure that it steeps long enough so that it is strong. Don't add any sugar to it, and instead rely on the honey as a natural sweetener. Honey, while typically used as a sweetener, can actually help with coughing, too. Adding a teaspoon of honey to warm water can be a good way to soothe your throat and suppress coughing. Indeed, honey is a very useful natural cough medicine. Native Americans have used bee balm as a natural cough medicine. In a cup of hot water, steep 2 teaspoons of fresh bee balm leaves for 4 minutes. Take this 3 times a day. Not only can this help soothe your throat, but it can also help fight infections, and clear out nasal congestion. Using a humidifier might be able to help with a dry cough. However, make sure that you clean it out on a regular basis so that it doesn't grow any mold or harmful bacteria. In young children, it is especially important to seek medical attention if they begin making a "whooping" noise or appear to have trouble breathing when they cough, which could be a sign of asthma. If the cough is accompanied by fever, vomiting, or any other troubling systems that do not go away, then it is might time to talk to a health care practitioner. Read More: More on Cough | Natural Health Remedies for Various Ailments and Conditions | Home Page | Site Search Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences or Read Others' Contributions Click here to learn more about a powerful natural remedy which helps to get rid of the coughs, phlegm and mucus of bronchitis . Click here for natural, herbal and homeopathic remedies for coughs . Click here for more pages and articles on Cough . Get natural, herbal and homeopathic remedies for hundreds of health conditions and ailments. GO . Need a FREE $5.00 coupon for dozens of top brand name supplements? Just tell us where to send it. First Name : Your E-Mail : Like this site? Receive FREE natural health news and information by subscribing to the ALL 4 NATURAL HEALTH NEWSLETTER . Some Related Cough Pages Natural Cough Remedy - Relief at Home Best Cough Medicine - Harness the Benefits of Honey Home Remedy for Cough - Natural Treatment and Relief Finding a Natural Cough Medicine that Works How to Stop a Cough Naturally with Herbs Return from this page to Natural Health Remedies, Natural Health Cures, Organic Remedies & Organic Cures Return from this page Finding a Natural Cough Medicine that Works to All 4 Natural Health... attaining good health naturally... Home Page Subscribe now to the ALL 4 NATURAL HEALTH NEWSLETTER to receive free natural health news and information. Email Name Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you All 4 Natural Health Newsletter. [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Related Websites Depression Help Omega 3 Fatty Acids Quality Natural Health Supplements at a Reasonable Price - iHerb Coupon and Referral Code Site Search Home Page Latest Site Updates Natural Health News Introduction; Basics & Foundation About Good Health About Natural Health Good Health Basics Food, Diet & Nutrition Nutrition Articles Healthy Lifestyle Body Detoxification Holistic Therapies Conditions & Remedies Natural Remedies Herbal Remedies Herbs & Supplements Info on some Herbs About Supplements Best Herbs & Foods Useful Information Quotes & Inspiration Health Articles Links & Resources Admin Links About Me Privacy Policy Disclaimer Subscribe Newsletter Contact Us Site Search This website's content must not be reproduced or republished without express permission. Site Search The information provided on this website is not meant to diagnose, prevent, treat or cure any disease. It is to be taken as suggestions or educational material and not to be considered professional advice. Copyright&copy
2007-2011 All4NaturalHealth.com. All Rights Reserved. Home | Links & Resources | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | 