<1.0 x 10^(-14).  pH
of 1% soln 6.9.  Aq solns of caffeine salts dissociate quickly.  Absorption
spectrum:  Hartley, J. Chem. Soc.  87, 1802 (1905).  One gram dissolves
in 46 ml water, 5.5 ml water at 80 C, 1.5 ml boiling water, 66 ml alcohol,
22 ml alcohol at 60 C, 50 ml acetone, 5.5 ml chloroform, 530 ml ether,
100 ml benzene, 22 ml boiling benzene.  Freely sol in pyrrole; in
tetrahydrofuran contg about 4% water; also sol in ethyl acetate; slightly
in petr ether.  Soly in water is increased by alkali benzoates, cinnamates,
citrates, or salicylates. Monohydrate, felted needles, contg 8.5% H2O.  Efflorescent in air; complete
dehydration takes place at 80 C.  LD50 orally in rats:  200 mg/kg. Acetate, C8H10N4O2.(CH3COOH)2, granules or powder; acetic acid odor;
acid reaction.  Loses acetic acid on exposure to air.  Soluble in water
or alcohol with hydrolysis into caffeine and acetic acid.  Keep well stoppered. Hydrochloride dihydrate, C8H10N4O2.HCl.2H2O, crystals, dec 80-100 C with
loss of water and HCl.  Sol in water and in alcohol with dec. Therap Cat:  Central stimulant. Therap Cat (Vet):  Has been used as a cardiac and
           respiratory stimulant and as a diuretic. Return to Index Is it true that tea has no caffeine/What is theine, theobromine, etc? From "Principles of biochemistry", Horton and al, 1993. Caffeine is sometimes called "theine" when it's in tea. This is probably due
 to an ancient misconception that the active constituent is different.
 Theophylline is present only in trace amounts. It is more diuretic, more
 toxic and less speedy. Caffeine 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine Theophylline 1,3-dimethylxanthine Theobromine 3,7-dimethylxanthine Coffee and tea contain caffeine and theophylline, respectively, which are 
 methylated purine derivatives that inhibit cAMP phosphodiesterase. In
 the presence
 of these inhibitors, the effects of cAMP, and thus the stimulatory effects
 of the hormones that lead to its production, are prolonged and intensified. Theobromine and theophylline are two dimethylxanthines that have two
rather than three methyl groups. Theobromine is considerably weaker
than caffeine and theophylline, having about one tenth the stimulating
effect of either. Theobromine is found in cocoa products, tea (only in very small amounts)
and kola nuts, but is not found in coffee. In cocoa, its concentration
is generally about 7 times as great as caffeine. Although, caffeine
is relatively scarce in cocoa, its mainly because of theobromine that
cocoa is "stimulating". Theophylline is found in very small amounts in tea, but has a stronger
effect on the heart and breathing than caffeine. For this reason it is
often the drug of choice in home remedies for treating asthma
bronchitis and emphysema. The theophylline found in medicine is made
from extracts from coffee or tea. Return to Index Where can I find a gif of the caffeine molecule? Caffeine = 1,3,7-Trimethylxanthine A different view of the caffeine molecule. The Department of Chemistry at Jamaica of the University of Western Indies 
has made available an avi and an mpeg of a
rotation of the caffeine molecule, among other molecules and chemical
processes. The index page contains more information and the links to the clips. CH3
                  |
                  N
                 / \
           N----C   C==O
          ||   ||   |
          ||   ||   |
          CH    C   N--CH3
            \  / \ /
             N    C
             |   ||
            CH3   O There is a gif picture at the wuarchive.wustl.edu ftp site or any
      of its mirror sites under multimedia/images/gif/c

           caffeine Theobromine is also a common component of coffee, tea, chocolate, 
and mate (particularly in these last two). Theobromine



                 CH3
                  |
                  N
                 / \
           N----C   C==O
          ||   ||   |
          ||   ||   |
          CH    C   N--H
            \  / \ /
             N    C
             |   ||
            CH3   O Theophylline was once thought to be a major component of tea. This is 
not correct. Tea contains significantly more amounts of caffeine 
than of theophylline. Theophylline



                 CH3
                  |
                  N
                 / \
           N----C   C==O
          ||   ||   |
          ||   ||   |
          CH    C   N--CH3
            \  / \ /
             N    C
             |   ||
             H    O Return to Index Is it true that espresso has less
 caffeine than regular coffee? Yes and no. An espresso cup has about as much caffeine as a cup of dark
brew. But servings for espresso are much smaller. Which means that the content
of caffeine per millilitre are much higher than with a regular brew.
Moreover, caffeine is more quickly assimilated when taken in concentrated
dosages, such as an espresso cup. The myth of lower caffeine espresso comes comes from the fact that the
darker roast beans used for espresso do have less caffeine than 
regularly roasted beans as roasting is supposed to break up or sublimate
the caffeine in the beans (I have read this quote on research articles, 
but found no 
scientific studies supporting it. Anybody out there?). But espresso 
is prepared using pressurized water through significantly more
ground (twice as much?) than regular drip coffee, resulting in a higher 
percentage of caffeine per millilitre. Here's the caffeine content of Drip/Espresso/Brewed Coffee: Drip            115-175
Espresso        100         1 serving (1.5-2oz)
Brewed          80-135 Return to Index How does caffeine taste? Caffeine is very bitter. Barq's Root Beer contains caffeine and the company
says that it has "12.78 mg per 6oz" and that they "add it as a flavouring agent
for the sharp bitterness" Return to Index How much theobromine/theophylline there is in ...? Sources: Physicians Desk Reference and Institute of Food Technologies
from Pafai and Jankiewicz (1991) DRUGS AND HUMAN BEHAVIOUR cocoa                      250 mg theobromine
bittersweet choc. bar      130 mg theobromine
5 oz cup brewed coffee     no theobromine
tea 5oz cup brewed 3min 
with teabag                3-4 mg theophylline
Diet Coke                  no theobromine or theophylline Return to Index Caffeine and your Health Important: This information was excerpted from several sources, no
claims are made to its accuracy. The FAQ mantainer is not a medical
doctor and cannot vouch for the accuracy of this information. Caffeine Withdrawal: Procedures and
Symptoms. How to cut caffeine intake? Most people report a very good success ratio by cutting down caffeine
intake at the rate of 1/2 cup of coffee a day. This is known as Caffeine Fading . Alternatively you might try reducing coffee intake
in discrete steps of two-five cups of coffee less per week (depending
on how high is your initial intake). If you are drinking more than
10 cups of coffee a day, you should seriously consider cutting down. The best way to proceed is to consume caffeine regularly for a week,
while keeping a precise log of the times and amounts of caffeine intake
(remember that chocolate, tea, soda beverages and many headache pills
contain caffeine as well as coffee). At the end of the week proceed
to reduce your coffee intake at the rate recommended above. Remember to
have substitutes available for drinking: if you are not going to have
a hot cup of coffee at your 10 minute break, you might consider having
hot chocolate or herbal tea, but NOT decaff, since decaff has  also
been shown to be addictive. This should take you through the works
without much problem. Some other people quit cold turkey. Withdrawal symptoms are quite nasty
this way (see section below) but they can usually be countered with lots
of sleep and exercise. Many people report being able to stop drinking
caffeine almost cold-turkey while on holidays on the beach. If quitting
cold turkey is proving too hard even in the beach, drinking a coke
might help. What are the symptoms of caffeine withdrawal? Regular caffeine consumption reduces sensitivity to caffeine. When caffeine
intake is reduced, the body becomes oversensitive to adenosine. In response
to this oversensitiveness, blood pressure drops dramatically, causing an
excess of blood in the head (though not necessarily on the brain), leading
to a headache. This headache, well known among coffee drinkers, usually lasts from
one to five days, and can be alleviated with analgesics such as aspirin.
It is also alleviated with caffeine intake (in fact several analgesics
contain caffeine dosages). Often, people who are reducing caffeine intake report being irritable,
unable to work, nervous, restless, and feeling sleepy, as well as
having a headache. In extreme cases, nausea and vomiting has also been
reported. References. Caffeine and Health. J. E. James, Academic Press, 1991.
Progress in Clinical and Biological Research Volume 158. G. A. Spiller, Ed.
Alan R. Liss Inc, 1984. Return to Index What happens when you overdose? From Desk Reference to the Diagnostic Criteria from DSM-3-R (American
Psychiatric Association, 1987): Caffeine-Induced Organic Mental Disorder
305.90 Caffeine Intoxication Recent consumption of caffeine, usually in excess of 250 mg. At least five of the following signs: restlessness nervousness excitement insomnia flushed face diuresis gastrointestinal disturbance muscle twitching rambling flow of thought and speech tachycardia or cardiac arrhythmia periods of inexhaustibility psychomotor agitation Not due to any physical or other mental disorder, such as an
   Anxiety Disorder. Basically, overdosing on caffeine will probably be very very unpleasant but
not kill or deliver permanent damage. However, People do die from it. Toxic dose The LD_50 of caffeine (that is the lethal dosage reported
            to kill 50% of the population) is estimated at 10 grams for oral administration. As it is usually the case, lethal dosage 
            varies from individual to individual according to weight. 
            Ingestion of 150 mg/kg of caffeine seems to be the LD_50 for 
            all people. That is, people weighting 50 kilos have an LD_50 
            of approx. 7.5 grams, people weighting 80 kilos have an LD_50 
            of about 12 grams. In cups of coffee the LD_50 varies from 50 to 200 cups of
            coffee or about 50 vivarins (200 mg each). One exceptional case documents survival after ingesting 
            24 grams. The minimum lethal dose ever reported was 3.2 grams intravenously , this does not represent the oral MLD (minimum 
            lethal dose). In small children ingestion of 35 mg/kg can lead to moderate
            toxicity. The amount of caffeine in an average cup of coffee
            is 50 - 200 mg. Infants metabolize caffeine very slowly. Symptoms Acute caffeine poisoning gives early symptoms of anorexia,
        tremor, and restlessness.  Followed by nausea, vomiting,
        tachycardia, and confusion.  Serious intoxication may cause
        delirium, seizures, supraventricular and ventricular tachyarrhythmias,
        hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. Chronic high-dose caffeine intake can lead to nervousness,
        irritability, anxiety, tremulousness, muscle twitching, insomnia,
        palpitations and hyperreflexia.

        For blood testing, cross-reaction with theophylline assays will
        detect toxic amounts.  (Method IA)
        Blood concentration of 1-10 mg/L is normal in coffee drinkers,
        while 80 mg/L has been associated with death. Treatment Emergency  Measures Maintain the airway and assist ventilation. (See Appendix A) Treat seizures & hypotension if they occur. Hypokalemia usually goes away by itself. Monitor Vital Signs. Specific drugs & antidotes. Beta blockers effectively reverse cardiotoxic effects mediated
        by excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation.  Treat hypotension or
        tachyarrhythmias with intravenous propanolol, .01 - .02 mg/kg. ,
        or esmolol, .05 mg/kg , carefully titrated with low doses.  Esmolol
        is preferred because of its short half life and low cardioselectivity. Decontamination Induce vomiting or perform gastric lavage. Administer activated charcoal and cathartic. Gut emptying is probably not needed if 1  2 are performed promptly. Appendix A Performing airway assistance. If no neck injury is suspected, place in the "Sniffing" position
        by tilting the head back and extending the front of the neck. Apply the "Jaw Thrust" to move the tongue out of the way without
        flexing the neck:  Place thumb fingers from both hands under the back of the jaw
        and thrust the jaw forward so that the chin sticks out.  This should
        also hurt the patient, allowing you to judge depth of coma. :) Tilt the head to the side to allow vomit and snot to drain out. From conversations on alt.drugs.caffeine: The toxic dose is going to vary from person to person, depending
primarily on built-up tolerance.  A couple people report swallowing 10
to 13 vivarin and ending up in the hospital with their stomaches
pumped, while a few say they've taken that many and barely stayed
awake. A symptom lacking in the clinical manual but reported by at least
two people on the net is a loss of motor ability: inability to move,
speak, or even blink.  The experience is consistently described as
very unpleasant and not fun at all, even by those very familiar with
caffeine nausea and headaches. Return to Index Effects of caffeine on pregnant women. Caffeine has long been suspect of causing mal-formations in fetus,
 and that it may reduce fertility rates. These reports have proved controversial. What is known is that caffeine does causes malformations in rats, when ingested at rates comparable
 to 70 cups a day for humans. Many other species respond equally to such
 large amounts of caffeine. Data is scant, as experimentation on humans is not feasible. In any case
 moderation in caffeine ingestion seems to be a prudent course for
 pregnant women. Recent references are Pastore and Savitz, Case-control
 study of caffeinated beverages and preterm delivery. American Journal of 
 Epidemiology, Jan 1995. A recent study found a weak link between Sudden-Infant-Death-Syndrome 
 (SIDS) and caffeine consumption by the mother, which reinforces
 the recommendation for moderation -possibly even abstinence- above. On men, it has been shown that caffeine reduces rates of sperm motility
 which may account for some findings of reduced fertility. Return to Index Caffeine and Osteoporosis (Calcium loss) From the Journal of AMA:
(JAMA, 26 Jan. 1994, p. 280-3.) "There was a significant association between (drinking more) caffeinated
coffee and decreasing bone mineral density at both the hip and the spine,
independent of age, obesity, years since menopause, and the use of tobacco,
estrogen, alcohol, thiazides, and calcium supplements [in women]." Except when: "Bone density did not vary [...] in women who reported drinking at least
one glass of milk per day during most of their adult lives." That is, if you drink a glass of milk a day, there is no need to worry
about the caffeine related loss of calcium. Return to Index Studies on the side-effects of caffeine. OAKLAND, California (UPI) -- Coffee may be good for life. A major
study has found fewer suicides among coffee drinkers than those who
abstained from the hot black brew. The study of nearly 130,000 Northern California residents and the
records of 4,500 who have died looked at the effects of coffee and tea
on mortality. Cardiologist Arthur Klatsky said of the surprising results, "This is
not a fluke finding because our study was very large, involved a
multiracial population, men, women, and examined closely numerous
factors related to mortality such as alcohol consumption and smoking.'' The unique survey also found no link between coffee consumption and
death risk. And it confirmed a "weak'' connection of coffee or tea to
heart attack risk -- but not to other cardiovascular conditions such as
stroke. The study was conducted by the health maintenance organization Kaiser
Permanente and was reported Wednesday in the Annals of Epidemiology. Return to Index Caffeine and your metabolism. Caffeine increases the level of circulating fatty acids. This has been shown
to increase the oxidation of these fuels, hence enhancing fat oxidation.
Caffeine has been used for years by runners and endurance people to enhance
fatty acid metabolism. It's particularly effective in those who are not 
habitual users. Caffeine is not an appetite suppressant.  It does affect metabolism,
though it is a good question whether its use truly makes any difference
during a diet.  The questionable rationale for its original inclusion
in diet pills was to make a poor man's amphetamine-like preparation
from the non-stimulant sympathomimetic phenylpropanolamine and the
stimulant caffeine.  (That you end up with something very
non-amphetamine like is neither here nor there.)  The combination drugs
were called "Dexatrim" or Dexa-whosis (as in Dexedrine) for a reason,
namely, to assert its similarity in the minds of prospective buyers.
However, caffeine has not been in OTC diet pills for many years per
order of the FDA, which stated that there was no evidence of efficacy
for such a combination. From Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics: Caffeine in combination with an analgesic, such as aspirin, is widely used
in the treatment of ordinary types of headache.  There are few data to 
substantiate its efficacy for this purpose.  Caffeine is also used in
combination with an ergot alkaloid in the treatment of migrane (Chapter 39). Ergotamine is usually administered orally (in combination with caffeine) or
sublingually [...] If a patient cannot tolerate ergotamine orally, rectal 
administration of a mixture of caffeine and ergotamine tartarate may be
attempted. The bioavailability [of ergotamine] after sublingual administration is also
poor and is often inadequate for therapeutic purposes [...] the concurrent 
administration of caffeine (50-100 mg per mg of ergotamine) improves both the
rate and extent of absorption [...] However, there is little correspondence 
between the concentration of ergotamine in plasma and the intensity or duration
of therapeutic or toxic effects. Caffeine enhances the action of the ergot alkaloids in the treatment of 
migrane, a discovery that must be credited to the sufferers from the disease
who observed that strong coffee gave symptomatic relief, especially when
combined with the ergot alkaloids. As mentioned, caffeine increases the oral
and rectal absorption of ergotamine, and it is widely believed that this
accounts for its enhancement of therapeutic effects. Nowadays most of researchers believe that the stimulatory actions are
attributable to the antagonism of the adenosine. Agonists at the
adenosine receptors produce sedation while antagonists at these sites, like
caffeine and theophylline induce stimulation, and what is even more important,
the latter substance also reverse agonists-induced symptoms of sedation, thus
indicating that this effects go through these receptors. Another possibility, however, is that methylxanthines enhance release of
excitatory aminoacids, like glutamate and aspartate, which are the main
stimulatory neurotransmitters in the brain. As to the side effects: methylxanthines inhibit protective activity of common
antiepileptic drugs in exptl. animals in doses comparable to those used in
humans when correction to the surface area is made. It should be underlined,
that although tolerance develop to the stimulatory effects of theo or caffeine
when administered on a chronic base, we found no tolerance to the above effects
. This hazardous influence was even enhanced over time. Therefore, it should be
 emphasized that individuals suffering from epilepsy should avoid, or at least
reduce consumption of coffee and other caffeine-containing beverages. Return to Index Miscellaneous How do you pronounce mate? MAH-teh. MAH like in malt, and -teh like in Gral. Patten. Return to Index Recipes. Chocolate covered espresso beans You won't get single, glossy
beans, but the taste is there! Put dark roast coffee beans on a waxpaper-covered baking sheet. Melt some chocolate by puting a container with the chocolate in a
   pan of boiling water, stir the chocolate when it is getting hot.
   Some experimentation regarding what chocolate to use is in place.
   I used chocolate chips of from Girardelli. One should probably
   aim for dark and not too sweet chocolate. Pour the chocolate over the beans and smear it so that each bean
   is covered - you should have a single layer of covered beans not
   too far apart. When the beans have cooled off a little bit, put the sheet in the
   fridge/freezer. When solid, break off a piece and enjoy. How to make your own chocolate Here's the recipe for making a real chocolate beverage. Important steps are
in boldface . Ingredients 1-2 kg (2-4pounds) of cocoa beans. A manually operated grinder. Instructions Sift through the beans removing any impurities (pieces of grass, leaves,
etc). Place the beans in a pan (no teflon) and roast them. Stir frequently.
   As the beans roast they start making "pop" sounds like popcorn. Beans are
ready when you estimate that approx 50-75% of the beans have popped. Do not
let the beans burn, though a bit of black on each bean is ok. Peel the beans. Peeling roasted cocoa beans is like peeling baked potatoes:
The hotter they are the easier it is to peel the darn things, at the expense
of third degree burns on your fingers. (Tip: Use kitchen mittens and brush
the beans in your hands). If the beans are too hard to peel roast them a bit
longer. Grind the beans into a pan. They produce a dark oily paste called "cocoa
paste". The oil in the cocoa has a bitter taste that you have to get used to. I
like it this way, but not all people do. Here are the alternatives: With oil , which gives you a richer flavour: Spread aluminum foil on a table and make small pies of chocolate, about
1/4 of an inch high, and 6 inches in diameter. Let them rest overnight. The
morning after they are hard tablets. Remove them from the aluminum foil and
rap them in it. Store in the freezer. Without oil , some flavour is gone, less bitter, weaker (whimper) chocolate: Put the paste inside a thin cloth (like linen), close the cloth and squeeze
until the oil comes out. If you manage to get most of the oil out, what is
left is high quality cocoa powder, like Droste's. What is left now is either bitter tablets or bitter cocoa powder. You can now make a nice beverage as follows: Boil a liter of milk (or water, like in ancient Mexican style. Like water
for chocolate, "Como agua para chocolate": you know). When the milk is warm (not hot) add a chocolate pie in pieces. Stir with a
blender (but be careful! the blender's electric cord should NOT touch the
pot or any other hot thing around it). When the chocolate has dissolved add 1/2-3/4 cups of sugar (depending how
sweet you like your chocolate) and blend in fast. Make sure the sugar is
completely dissolved in the chocolate otherwise it would be bitter no matter
how much sugar you may add afterwards . Add a teaspoon of cinnamon or natural vanilla flavour (artificial vanilla
flavour with chocolate results in an awful medicine like flavour) if you like,
and blend again. Let the mixture boil, when it starts to get bubbly quickly remove the pan
from the stove top, and rest the bottom against a soaked cloth. Put again on
stove top, it should get bubbly almost immediately, remove once again and
repeat one last time. This aerates the chocolate which enhances flavour. In a mug, put about 1/2-3/4 of the chocolate mixture, and add cold milk,
until the temperature and/or the concentration of the flavour is right for
your tastes. Accompany with French Pastries. Yum Yum!! Enjoy! Return to Index Electronic Resources Return to Index Administrivia How do I get the newest copy of this FAQ? How do I get the newest copy of this FAQ? My page at http://aomt.netmegs.com/coffee/caffaq.html or via e-mail send a message to caffeinefaq@aomt.netmegs.com List of Contributors This FAQ is a collective effort. 
Here's a list of most (all?) of the contributors. Oktay Ahiska (oktay@NOSPAM.rga.com) Marc Aurel (4-tea-2@NOSPAM.bong.saar.de) Scott Austin (scotta@NOSPAM.cnt.com) Tom Benjamin (tomb@NOSPAM.panix.com) Jennifer Beyer (jennifer@NOSPAM.joltcola.com) Steve Bliss (steveb@NOSPAM.pcdocs.com) David Alan Bozak (dab@NOSPAM.moxie) Rajiv (w94_bhatnaga@NOSPAM.wums.wustl.edu) Trevor P. Bugera (tbugera@NOSPAM.spots.ab.ca) Jack Carter (scjack@NOSPAM.ausvm1.ibm.com) Richard Drapeau (Richard.Drapeau@NOSPAM.p1.f92.n282.z1.tdkt.kksys.com) Jym Dyer (jym@NOSPAM.remarque.berkeley.edu) Steve Dyer (dyer@NOSPAM.spdcc.com) Stefan Engstrom (stefan@NOSPAM.helios.UCSC.EDU) Lemieux Francois (lemieuxf@NOSPAM.ERE.UMontreal.CA) Scott Fisher (sfisher@NOSPAM.megatest.com) Dave Huddle (jhuddle@NOSPAM.cas.org) Matt Humphrey (matth@NOSPAM.rocketcola.com) Tom F Karlsson (tomk@NOSPAM.mamba.csd.uu.se) Bob Kummerfeld (bob@NOSPAM.basser.cs.su.OZ.AU) Dr. Robert Lancashire (rjlanc@NOSPAM.uwimona.edu.JM) John Levine (johnl@NOSPAM.iecc.com) Alex Lopez-Ortiz (alopez-o@NOSPAM.unb.ca) Alec Muffett (alecm@NOSPAM.uk.sun.com) Dana Myers (myers@NOSPAM.cypress.West.Sun.COM) Tim Nemec (tim@NOSPAM.netins.net) Mike Oliver (oliver@NOSPAM.math.ucla.edu) Jim Pailin (pailinje@NOSPAM.ctrvx1.vanderbilt.edu) Dave Palmer (arxt@NOSPAM.quads.uchicago.edu) Stuart Phillips (phillips@NOSPAM.healthy.uwaterloo.ca) Siobhan Purcell  (PURCELLS@NOSPAM.IRLEARN.UCD.IE) Cary A. Sandvig (sandvig@NOSPAM.rhea.cray.com) Jesse T Sheidlower (jester@NOSPAM.panix.com) Stepahine da Silva (arielle@NOSPAM.taronga.com) Michael A Smith (mas@NOSPAM.cyberspy.REMOVE_THIS.com) Mari J. Stoddard (stoddard@NOSPAM.gas.uug.arizona.edu) Thom (thomd@NOSPAM.atm.com) Deanna K. Tobin T.E. (yakityak@NOSPAMdolphin.upenn.edu) Nick Tsoukas (japetus@NOSPAM.orfeas.chemeng.ntua.gr) Adam Turoff (ziggy@NOSPAM.panix.com) Ganesh Uttam (g.uttam@NOSPAM.ic.ac.uk) David R. B. Walker (drbw@NOSPAM.mail.che.utexas.edu) Orion Wilson (moria@NOSPAM.cats.ucsc.edu) Piotr Wlaz  (wlaz@NOSPAM.ursus.ar.lublin.pl) Ted Young (theodric@NOSPAM.MIT.EDU) SZ (sz*@s*.c*.ca) Copyright This FAQ is Copyright (C) 1994,1995 by Alex Lopez-Ortiz. This FAQ is Copyright © 1998 by Daniel Owen. This text,
  in whole or in part, may not be sold in any medium, including,
  but not limited to, electronic, CD-ROM, or published in print,
  without the explicit, written permission of Daniel Owen caffeine@aomt.netmegs.com . Return to Index Copyright (C) 1994, Alex López-Ortiz. Copyright © 1998  Daniel Owen. caffeine@aomt.netmegs.com . [ back to chemicals ]   [ back to caffeine ]   [ back to faqs ] Archived by Erowid with permission of Author Last Mod - Feb 2 2011 Design © 19