
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 02 May 2012 04:01:59 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.39 (Unix) mod_tsunami/3.0 FrontPage/5.0.2.2634
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pelvic Floor Problems Left Untreated Women's health information covering breast cancer, infertility, female sexuality, aging, diet and women's health policy. BACK TO... Aphrodite's Home Page ARTICLES ABOUT... Female Sexuality Relationships Sexual Dysfunction Looking Good STDs Men Contraception Reproductive Health Conceiving Pregnancy Incontinence Mental Health Children's Health Eating Well Healthy Living Supplements Menopause Weight Issues Breast Cancer Custom Search HELP WITH... Your Dreams Personal Development Counseling By Email DISCUSSION FORUMS... Female Sexuality Trying To Conceive Surviving Miscarriage Overcoming Infertility Reproductive Health General Health Contraception Pregnancy Parenting Babies and Toddlers Relationships Weddings Separation and Divorce Mental Health Diet & Weight Share 29 June 2005 Pelvic Floor Problems Left Untreated A survey presented at the American Urological Association meeting has prompted the researchers to recommend that pelvic floor disorders be part of routine physical examinations for all women. The researchers, from Temple University, were surprised to learn that while nearly three-quarters of all women reported suffering from one or more pelvic floor disorders, 70 percent of those had not sought medical help. And by the time they did see the doctor - usually triggered by the onset of incontinence - they were suffering from multiple uro-gynecological problems. Minor incontinence and other pelvic floor disorders usually begin after a woman gives birth. Then, as women age, the bladder stretches and pelvic muscles weaken, especially if they don't exercise. Uterine or rectal prolapse and incontinence can often ensue. Significant risks for pelvic floor disorders were older age, high body mass index, number of vaginal births, and the use of forceps. Researcher Jack Mydlo, at Temple University School of Medicine, said that of all pelvic floor disorders, it was incontinence that brought most women to the doctor. "They cannot tolerate leaking urine and the disruption to their daily lives. But incontinence is usually just the tip of the iceberg. Many are also suffering from such pelvic floor disorders as uterine or rectal prolapse." The first course of action in treating incontinence is usually Kegel exercises to strengthen the muscles around the bladder and sphincter. Sometimes, the use of medications such as inipramine, an anti-depressant that stimulates the closure of the bladder neck, is warranted. "When medications don't help, we first try a conservative measure; the injection of a bulking agent into the bladder neck. This is usually pretty effective. And lastly, when all else has failed, a sling is surgically inserted to hold up the bladder neck," said Mydlo. Share Home Page Q & A Discussion Forums About Us Privacy Your use of this website indicates your agreement to our terms of use . © 2002 - 2012  Aphr