
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 19:59:42 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) PHP/5.2.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/1.0.0e
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: private
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hearing Health Magazine Login Search Find a Hearing Professional Hearing Health Magazine News Contact Us Emerging Research Grants About HHF Programs that Make a Difference Newsroom How to Recognize Hearing Loss It's a Noisy Planet Achievement Timelines Anatomy of the Ear Local Events Donor Acknowledgement Hearing Restoration Project HRP Consortium Members Hearing Restoration Project HRP Membership Hearing Health Magazine HHM About HHM Current Issue Subscribe Archive Submit Article Advertising « Back to Articles April 13, 2011 Stop That Swab By: Jamie Morrison Make peace with earwax. After all,one of its primary purposes is to help the ear clean itself. Who knew earwax could be so useful? It was once used by seamstresses to keep the ends of thread from fraying. "The American Frugal Housewife," in its 1832 edition, suggested earwax as a solution for chapped lips. In 2009, when the TV show "Myth Busters" attempted to demonstrate that earwax could hold a flame, earwax proved unable to hold a candle to genuine candles. So what is the real purpose of earwax? Known by its medical term cerumen, earwax is a coating which keeps water, dust, and infectious agents from harming the skin inside of the ear canal. It also acts as a lubricant to keep the skin from drying out, and it possesses mild antibacterial and anti fungal properties. Ideally, earwax takes care of itself. "The number one thing to do with regard to earwax is to do nothing. The ears are one of God's great self-cleaning devices," says William H. Slattery, M.D., an otolaryngologist at the House Research Institute in Los Angeles. The ear cleans itself thanks to glands located in the outer ear canal that secrete a waxy substance.This waxy substance combines with dead, dehydrated skin and any small foreign particles, preventing them from going deeper into the ear canal. The skin of the outer ear actually moves the earwax out of the ear at a gradual rate of about 1 1/3inches per year. So earwax in a healthy ear will periodically flake off and fall out that's what it's supposed to do. There are two types of earwax: wet and dry. Which type you have is based on your genetic makeup. East Asians and Native Americans generally have dry wax, containing 20 to 30 percent lipids, or fat,while Caucasians and Africans tend toward wet wax, with closer to 50 percent lipids. The color of earwax can also vary, with the dry variety typically gray and the wet typically brown.But the color can vary even between one person's ears. The consistency of earwax can also vary from nearly liquid to rock hard. Normally wax that's been inside the ear canal for quite some time tends to be harder, but that is not necessarily problematic. When Earwax Buildup Is a Bummer If the ear is supposed to be self-cleaning, then why do many people seem to have problems with excessive buildup of earwax? Earwax issues are one of the top ear issues for primary care physicians. This is because many people try to address earwax buildup themselves at home, via over-the-counter solutions. When this doesn't work, they head to the family doctor. The main culprit causing earwax buildup is a cotton swab, Slattery says. "Anything you put in the ear tends to push the wax in farther." Unfortunately, many people continue to use cotton swabs like Q-tips to try to clean their outer ears. "The most common reason we hear for this practice is that their mother taught them to do this,"Slattery says. Cotton swabs are mild compared with other things reportedly used to clear out earwax. Michael J.Olds, M.D., an otolaryngologist at the Spokane Ear, Nose, and Throat Clinic in Spokane, Wash., lists pen caps, keys, and bobby pins as culprits. "Often this leads to an abrading of the ear canal, causing bleeding," Olds says. Even worse than this sort of scraping is the possibility of puncturing the ear drum. Of course, not all earwax problems are caused by putting cotton swabs or keys into the ear. Some people simply have narrow ear canals, which can prevent wax from exiting the ear normally. Hearing aid and earplug users often struggle with earwax buildup because the devices push wax back into the ear canal. Older people may find that the natural process of earwax transporting itself out of the ear doesn't work as well because their ear canal skin glands often produce increasingly solid earwax. And skin conditions like eczema can mean earwax isn't being shed properly, says Eric B. Leavitt,M.D., an otolaryngologist at Spokane Valley Ear, Nose, and Throat in Spokane,Wash. Symptoms that can indicate that a person has cerumen impaction, or excessive earwax buildup,include an overly "full" feeling in the ear, pain, increasing difficulty hearing,tinnitus or ringing in the ear, a feeling of itchiness, a discharge or odor from the ear, and dizziness. And because earwax has protective properties, "alack of earwax can be a problem too," Olds says. How (and How Not) to Deal Many people buy over-the-counter ear drops, called cerumenolytics, such as Debrox or Murine, which help to loosen earwax. Olive oil, baby oil, a saline solution, and hydrogen peroxide can also be used. Often the earwax comes out on its own, can be dislodged by irrigation, or by gently using an ear bulb or syringe filled with warm water. "The number one thing to do with regard to earwax is to do nothing. The ears are one of God's great self-cleaning devices." Though ear drops can cause irritation to some people, they are generally safe, according to Olds. And for those who feel they need added assistance with removal, he says irrigation kits are"reasonably successful" at removing earwax. Those who have punctured ear drums,however, should steer clear of such remedies and see a doctor for assistance. Another remedy, calledear candling, uses a hollow, cone-shaped candle that is inserted into the ear canal. When it is lit at the other end, it theoretically creates a suction effect which serves to pull excess earwax out of the ear canal. "I know of people who swear by ear candling, but it's not clear that it really generates much of a vacuum effect," Olds says. It can also end up depositing candle wax in the ear canal, causing more problems. In fact, a 2004study published in the Journal of Laryngology and Otology said: "The inescapable conclusion is that ear candles do more harm than good." Researcher Edzard Ernst, M.D., Ph.D., of the Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter & Plymouth, in Exeter, England, concluded: "Their use should be discouraged." Doctors will often employ ear drops and irrigation to remove earwax, though they also have other resources at their disposal, such as a curette, which is a very small metal scoop. They may also use a special microscope called an otomicroscope so that they can use the curette extremely precisely to make sure that all earwax that should be removed is in fact removed. This ensures that they will not cause damage to the ear drum or other sensitive parts of the ear. Gentle suction using a special vacuum is alsosometimes used in a doctor's office. Some otolaryngologistsand audiologists offer video otomicroscopy, which allows patients to see inside their ear canal. While it's really only essential that the doctor have a good view of built-up earwax, it can be helpful in giving patients a greater understanding of what cerumen impaction looks like. Keeping in mind that the best course of action with regard to earwax is to do nothing, Slattery believes that 95 percent of earwax complaints can be solved via two simple steps. First, don't use Q-Tips. Second, it may help to put a small amount of baby oil or olive oil in each ear canal once a week. If earwax buildup is still causing pain, hearing loss, or other problems, or if you believe you don't have enough earwax, consult a doctor. The main culprit causing earwax buildup is a cotton swab. Anything you put in the ear tends to push in the wax more. Earwax Do's and Don'ts DO Nothing. Ideally, the ear canal creates and gradually ejects earwax from the ear. Wash the outside of the ear (but not the ear canal) with soap and water. If you have excessive earwax buildup,it may help to put a drop of olive oil or baby oil in your ear canal once a week. Use over-the-counter earwax removal kits only if your ear drum is intact. See your doctor if olive oil, baby oil,or removal kits are not successful in removing impacted earwax, or if you experience pain, increasing difficulty he aring, tinnitus or ringing in the ear, a feeling of itchiness, a discharge or odor from the ear, or dizziness. DON'T Put anything smaller than your elbow in your ear, including cotton swabs, keys, pen caps, bobby pins, paper clips, or toothpicks. Empl oy ear candling to remove earwax buildup. Studies have shown it to be in effective and potentially dangerous to the ear canal. Hearing Health Magazine Free Subscription! Donate Now! DRF funds research that changes lives. There are currently no events scheduled. Voice (212) 257-6140 Toll-Free (866) 454-3924 TTY (888) 435-6104 Fax (212) 257-6139 Deafness Research Foundation 363 Seventh Avenue,10th Floor New York , NY 10001-3904 Copyright © 2012 Deafn