Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

FirstHealth of Andover - Acupuncture and High Blood Pressure Your browser does not support script High Blood Pressure New 
                            Research On April 4, 2001 
                            Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) and the New 
                            England Research Institute received a five-year 
                            multi-million-dollar cooperative agreement from the 
                            National Institutes of Health's National Center for 
                            Complementary and Alternative Medicine to look at 
                            the efficacy of acupuncture in treating High Blood Pressure . Just about everyone 
                            knows of someone who has high blood pressure (HBP) 
                            (also referred to as hypertension). Perhaps this is 
                            because an estimated 50 million Americans have this 
                            chronic condition which is classified by having a 
                            blood pressure of 140/90mmHg or higher. Blood 
                            pressure is determined by the amount of blood your 
                            heart pumps and the resistance in your arteries to 
                            that blood flow. Uncontrolled, HBP can lead to an 
                            increased risk of heart attack, stroke, kidney 
                            failure and heart failure. Aside from Western 
                            pharmaceuticals, proper diet, weight loss, smoking 
                            cessation and stress management are current forms of 
                            treatment for this silent killer. Americans face a 
                            90% chance of developing the condition, according to 
                            a new report in the Journal of the American Medical 
                            Association. The drugs to treat it must be taken 
                            daily and usually for a lifetime. They may also have 
                            side effects such as fatigue, depression or 
                            dizziness Randall Zusman, MD. is director of 
                            Hypertension and Vascular Medicine at MGH. As quoted 
                            on MGH's website, he states, "The studies already 
                            reported in the medical literature are very 
                            encouraging and we anticipate that a significant 
                            number of participants will respond to the 
                            treatment." The study will be conducted on 180 
                            individuals who will receive 12 acupuncture 
                            treatments over a six-week period. Treatments will 
                            be based on Traditional Chinese Medical diagnosis 
                            and treatment protocols. Dr. Zusman stated, "There 
                            is extensive literature from Asian and Russian 
                            communities that acupuncture does indeed lower blood 
                            pressure." ABC news.com reported that American 
                            researchers have already shown acupuncture can 
                            stimulate nerves that reach up into the brain to 
                            affect the cells in the brain that control blood 
                            pressure. Dr. John Longhurst professor of medicine 
                            at the University of California Irvine says, 
                            "There's evidence from our laboratory and many other 
                            laboratories to suggest that cells quiet down after 
                            acupuncture." The study at MGH is not yet complete. This is the 
                            end of the first year, but the outcomes are very 
                            encouraging. "A substantial number of our patients 
                            have responded with significant reductions in blood 
                            pressure," says Dr. Zusman, "The implication is that 
                            12 acupuncture treatments over a six-week period 
                            will produce a cure." A cure is defined by this 
                            study as maintaining normal blood pressure for one 
                            year without medication. The acupuncturists at FirstHealth have seen first 
                            hand that acupuncture can be used to lower blood 
                            pressure and decrease stress. We believe that in 
                            combination with proper diagnosis, acupuncture can 
                            be an effective tool in helping you to keep your 
                            blood pressure under control. ACUPUNCTURE ARTICLES Videos It’s My Favorite Part of My Week: Acupuncture: It Changed My Life Walking Angels: Staff at FirstHealth of Andover I Feel Like Myself Again It's Just Wonderful It Changed My Whole Life One Man’s Journey to Health: Overcoming Chronic Issues With Coordinated Care What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience Talented and Caring Staff Under One Roof What Do I Expect: First Acupuncture, Therapeutic Massage and Exercise Experience 100% Cooperation To Find Solutions Acupuncture: It Makes You Feel Wonderful Acupuncture For Health: I Keep Going Treatments For Low Back Pain: Success Through Acupuncture and Exercises Help With Acute Low Back Pain It Doesn't Hurt At All Getting Through A Difficult Time I Really Feel It's A Great Place I Can Breathe: Acupuncture assists Chronic Sinusitis I'm Walking in Heels!!! Acupuncture helps joint pain Overcome Back Pain Melt Away Stress Low Back Pain Chronic Pain Staying Active! Workplace Stress Audio Acupuncture on the air! Lisa Farwell of  FirstHealth of Andover does on-air interview and acupuncture demonstration to  radio talk show host for WCAP in Lowell. Drive time fun! Articles 10 Year 
        Anniversary at FH Allergies 
        and Acupuncture Allergies, Sinus Headaches, and Acupuncture Alpha-Stim ® Stress Buster Alternative 
        Treatments Arthritis Arthritis & TCM Auriculotherapy Auricular 
        Testimonial Back Pain Balance Method BioElectric 
        Flow Bladder 
        Infections Cancer Care Research Carpal Tunnel Constipation Dental Pain Depression Diabetes Diarrhea Dysmenorrhea Endometriosis Essential Oils Energy Channels Facelift ... 
        Naturally! Facial 
        Acupuncture's Top 5 Facial 
        "Midlife" Acupuncture Facial 
        Rejuvenation Female 
        Infertility I Female 
        Infertility: Hope Female 
        Infertility II Female 
        Infertility III Female Infertility Story Line Female Infertility: Overcoming Female Infertility: A Program of Hope Female 
        Infertility Role Female 
        Infertility: Top Ten Reasons Why Acupuncture Is A Must ! Fibromyalgia First Visit Gua Sha Technique High Blood Pressure High Blood 
        Pressure Research Headaches HIV/AIDS How Acupuncture 
        Works IBS Insurance Low Back Pain Low Back Pain 
        "Team Approach" Magnets: 
        Baylor Study Magnets: 
        Benefits Magnets: History Magnets: Post 
        Polio Magnets: Research Acceptance Magnets: Testimonial Male 
        Infertility Menopause Menstrual Cycle Morning 
        Sickness Myocardial Ischemia National 
        Health Statistic Report Needles Neuro Imaging NIH Survey on CAM Osteoarthritis Overview of 
        Acupuncture Pain 
        Management for Active Boomers Pain Relief Painful 
        Menstruation Pediatric Top 10 Pediatric 
        Acupuncture: Shonishin Pediatric 
        Asthma Pediatric 
        Asthma Tools Pediatric 
        Eczema Pediatric Oriental 
        Medicine Pediatric 
        Holistic Care with OM PMS Post Partum Raindrop 
        Technique Sciatica and Golfer's 
        Back Science and 
        Humanity: Eagle Tribune News Article Scientific 
        Mechanism Shingles Sinus Relief Sinus 
        Relief, Breathe Easier Sinusitis Sports Injuries Start 
        Sleeping (Again) Program Stop Smoking 
        for Life! Program Studies in 
        Success Tennis Elbow Testimonial: 
        Breech Pregnancy Testimonial: Bursitis Testimonial: Compartment Syndrome Testimonial: Fibromyalgia Testimonial: Foot Injury Testimonial: Interstitial Cystitis Testimonial: Knee and Foot Pain Testimonial: 
        Labor Testimonial: 
        Low Back Pain Testimonial: 
        Nausea Testimonial: Non Hodgkins Testimonial: Painful Menses Testimonial: Sports Injury Wellness Is a 
        Team Sport What 
        Acupuncture Treats What Is Acupuncture! Research, 
									Discounts, Special Events JOIN THE CLINIC CLUB TODAY!! As a 
				club member, you will receive special discount coupons, health 
				and research bulletins, and special event updates to our 
				FirstHealth team of speakers. DIRECTIONS | MISSION STATEMENT | TERMS OF USE | PATIENT PRIVACY | CONTACT US | HOME © 2010  FirstHealthofAndover™.  All Rights 
		Reserved.  One Dundee Park, Andover, MA 01810    978 - 474 - 9994 Serving 
        S