
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 20:12:09 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 18 Mar 2012 20:12:10 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.historyofcircumcision.org/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 20:12:10 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Education | History of Circumcision - Part 2 Home Books Education Pro and Contra Sexuality Education Good Use for the Worthless Foreskin Posted by admin on November 20, 2011 The disease-entrapping foreskin can cause real harm to the male and his partners — but researchers have known for years that detached from the human penis the foreskin may have some good uses. The most important one, it seems to me, is to help burn victims and others who need skin grafts. When we achieve 100% circumcision rates, we will increase the supply of foreskins for this important function. Here’s an excerpt from a recent article that cites work at Wake Forest, suggesting that skin grafts from foreskins may be better than regular skin grafts. Now this is a good use for the otherwise worthless foreskin. “At present, skin grafts can be expanded by making cuts in them to create a mesh, or by inserting balloons under the graft once it has been attached to the body. “These gradually expand, stretching the overlying skin. But, skin meshes heal unevenly and balloons are painful, take months to expand fully and leave scars. “According to a report in New Scientist, to try to improve on this, Sang Jin Lee of the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, took foreskin donated after circumcision and placed it between vices inside a bioreactor, a vessel that bathes the skin in nutrients to encourage cell growth and division. “The vices were controlled by a computer and could be set to move apart at specific times. The researchers found that the best method was to stretch the skin at hourly intervals, leaving it to produce new cells in the meantime, then stretching it again. “By doing this, they were able to elongate the skin by 20 per cent a day, which after five days resulted in an intact strip that was twice as long as the original. “Tests of the stretched skin showed that its general structure was maintained and that its thickness and pore size were almost identical to the starting tissue. “Lee said that they have since added extra vices to stretch skin lengthways and widthways at the same time.” Tagged circumcision , circumcision rates , Forest , hourly intervals , skin grafts , winston salem north carolina , Worthless Circumcision Reduces Chance of Swine Flu, H1N1 Posted by admin on November 11, 2011 Tagged Chance , circumcision , flu , Swine , swine flu Taking Lessons from Botswana on Universal Circumcision Posted by admin on November 1, 2011 The United States government should take a page or two out of Botswana’s commitment to universal circumcision. It’s downright embarrassing that we send millions of dollars overseas to circumcise Africans but can’t get our act together here at home. Maybe one of these days we can follow Botswana’s lead. See story below. Botswana plans to circumcise nearly half a million GABORONE (AFP) — Botswana, which has one of the world’s highest HIV infection rates, has launched a scheme to circumcise nearly half a million men to curb the spread the disease, the health ministry said Thursday. The country hopes to circumcise 460,000 men over the next five years, after a series of studies found that circumcised men were two to three times less likely to contract HIV, said Janet Mwambona, a public health specialist in charge of the project. “For the public health benefits of the preventive effect of circumcision to be realised, the Ministry of Health is supposed to cover 80 percent of eligible males in Botswana,” she said. Government is running television and radio campaigns to encourage men to visit clinics for safe circumcision procedures. “All primary and district hospitals are currently booking clients and performing the procedure,” added Mwambona. About 50 healthcare providers, including 27 doctors have undergone training on surgical circumcision. The rapid spread of HIV and AIDS once threatened the survival of the approximately two million people of the land-locked southern African country, until the introduction of antiretroviral drugs in 2003. According to a 2005 UNAIDS report, Botswana’s HIV prevalence among pregnant women between the ages of 15 and 24 has stayed between 35 and 37 percent since 2001. The rate among the older pregnant women was last measured at 43 percent in 2003. Tagged circumcision , hiv infection rates , ministry , percent , public health benefits , public health specialist , universal circumcision « Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next » Recent Posts Want to Have White Teeth? Here is the Solutions X4 Enlargment with Hybrid Support System Reducing Your Body Weight through Surgical Treatment in Houston The Importance of Choosing the Best Laser Treatment TSA Full Body Scanners Can See Circumcisions Small Business Financing Suits for You “Foreskin on the Forehead : The Latest in Beauty” UK Headline: Should All Boys Be Circumcised? Pro-Circ Doc to Head Centers for Disease Control Docs Who Retract Foreskins Are Child Abusers? Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Co