
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 03:56:43 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: Close

Hot Flashes - Better Medicine Better Medicine Logo Main Conditions Acne ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's Disease Anemia Arthritis Asthma Breast Cancer Cholesterol COPD Cold & Flu Colon Cancer Depression Diabetes Eczema Epilepsy Fibromyalgia Gout Hemorrhoids Hypertension Interstitial Cystitis Kidney Cancer Leukemia Lung Cancer Migraine & Headaches Multiple Sclerosis Osteoporosis Pregnancy Restless Legs Syndrome Rheumatoid Arthritis Rosacea Schizophrenia Shingles Triglycerides View All Conditions Symptoms Back Pain Bruising Cough Dehydration Earache Food Poisoning Hives Itching Skin Joint Pain Leg Numbness Leg Pain Lower Back Pain Middle Ear Infection Stomach Cramps Sweating Swollen Tongue Tingling Fingers Tingling Tongue Vomiting Weight Gain View All Symptoms Drugs & Treatments Abilify Actos Advair Avastin Lipitor Crestor Cymbalta Effexor XR Enbrel Epogen Lexapro Lovenox Nexium Neulasta OxyContin Plavix Remicade Seroquel Singulair Zyprexa View All Drugs Healthy Living Women's Health Children's Health Men's Health Senior Health Symptom Checker Forums Email Print View All Menopause Articles Main › Menopause › Symptoms & Causes › Hot Flashes Hot Flashes Content provided by the Faculty of the Harvard Medical School Menopause Quick Overview Symptoms & Causes Treatment Living with Menopause | View all Menopause Articles » Filed Under: Menopause View More “ Symptoms & Causes ” Articles (12) Featured Articles Are You In, Out or Post-Menopause Coping With Perimenopause Menopause: Effects of Low Estrogen Levels ----- Are You In, Out or Post-Menopause By the way, doctor: Do birth control pills disguise menopause? Coping With Perimenopause Depression at perimenopause: More than just hormones Hot Flashes How Women Can Avoid Midlife Weight Gain Lifestyle Choices and Severity of Menopause Symptoms Menopause and Cholesterol Levels Menopause and High Blood Pressure Mood Changes in Menopause Perimenopause Premarin and Duration of Menopause Symptoms UP NEXT ›› How Women Can Avoid Midlife Weight Gain What Is It? A hot flash is a brief feeling of intense warmth and sweating. Hot flashes commonly occur in women around the time of menopause. Researchers do not know exactly what causes hot flashes. Current theories suggest hot flashes are due to a menopause-related drop in the body's level of female hormones called estrogens. This drop affects the hypothalamus, an area of the brain that regulates body temperature. In a hot flash, the hypothalamus seems to sense that your body is too hot even when it is not, and tells the body to release the excess heat. One way the body does this is to widen (dilate) blood vessels, particularly those near the skin of the head, face, neck and chest. Once the blood vessels return to normal size, you feel cool again. Hot flashes affect about 85% of women during the years immediately before and after menopause. Menopause usually occurs around age 51, but hot flashes can begin as early as 2 to 3 years before the last menstrual period. Hot flashes can last for 6 months to as long as 15 years after the final period. The average is two years. Some women have only a few episodes a year, while others have as many as 20 episodes a day. Hot flashes occur in women who experience natural menopause, as well as in women who undergo menopause because their ovaries have been removed surgically or because they take medications that lower estrogen levels. These medications include gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists, such as leuprolide (Lupron) or danazol (Danocrine) that lower estrogen levels. Although hot flashes usually are considered a female problem, men can have hot flashes if their levels of the male sex hormone testosterone drop suddenly and dramatically. For example, hot flashes occur in 75% of men with prostate cancer who have surgery to remove the testes (orchiectomy) or who take medication to decrease testosterone levels. Symptoms that mimic hot flashes can occur in both men and women who have a tumor of the hypothalamus or pituitary gland, certain serious infections such as tuberculosis or HIV , alcoholism or thyroid disorders. Symptoms that are similar to hot flashes also can be a side effect of the food additive monosodium glutamate (MSG), or of certain medications, particularly nitroglycerin (sold under many brand names), nifedipine (Procardia, Adalat), niacin (numerous brand names), vancomycin (Vancocin) and calcitonin (Calcimar, Cibacalcin, Miacalcin). Symptoms A hot flash begins as a sensation of intense warmth in the upper body, followed by skin redness (flushing), drenching perspiration, and finally a cold, clammy feeling. Typically, these symptoms begin at the head and spread downward toward the neck and chest. They last from 30 seconds to 5 minutes. The average is 4 minutes. Hot flashes can be accompanied by other uncomfortable sensations, such as heart palpitations, a pressure feeling in the head, or feelings of dizziness , faintness or weakness. When hot flashes occur during the night, they can cause sleeplessness (insomnia), resulting in poor concentration, memory problems, irritability and exhaustion during the day. Diagnosis After noting your age, your doctor will ask you whether you are still having regular menstrual periods. If you are not, your doctor will ask the approximate date of your last period. If you are still menstruating, the doctor will want to know whether there is anything unusual about the timing of your periods or the amount of blood flow. Your doctor will ask whether you are experiencing any other symptoms that may be related to decreased estrogen, such as vaginal dryness, pain or discomfort during intercourse or urinary incontinence. Finally, your doctor will review your medical history, your gynecological history and the types of medications you are taking. This is to make sure your symptoms are hot flashes and not the result of a medical or gynecological illness or a side effect of medication. In most cases, your doctor can confirm that your hot flashes are related to menopause by reviewing your menstrual history and conducting a physical exam, including a pelvic exam. Your doctor may order a blood test to measure serum levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), which are high during menopause. Expected Duration In most women who undergo natural menopause , hot flashes subside within 2 to 5 years after the last menstrual period. In a small number of women, however, hot flashes can continue for 8 to 15 years after the last menstrual period. There is some evidence that women who go through menopause due to surgery may have more severe hot flashes for more years than women who go through natural menopause. Prevention Hot flashes related to menopause cannot be prevented. However, the following lifestyle changes may help to make hot flashes less severe or less frequent: Drink a glass of cool water at the beginning of a hot flash. This seems to lessen discomfort in some women. Also, be sure to drink enough water, usually six to eight glasses per day. Avoid drinking beverages that contain caffeine or alcohol, since these can make hot flashes more uncomfortable. Cut down on red wine, chocolate and aged cheeses. They contain a chemical that can trigger hot flashes by affecting the brain's temperature control center. Don't smoke. Smoking can make hot flashes worse. Wear loose, comfortable clothing made of cotton to help absorb perspiration. Dress in layers, so that you can remove some clothing if you suddenly feel hot. Lower your home thermostat to keep your house cool. At work, open a window or use a small portable fan. At night, use lightweight blankets that can be removed if hot flashes wake you up. Regular vigorous exercise during which endorphins are produced may also decrease hot flashes. Treatment Estrogen is the most effective medication available to relieve hot flashes. Short-term use of low-dose estrogen may be prescribed, with or without progesterone. If a woman still has her uterus, estrogen is prescribed together with progesterone to decrease the small risk of uterine cancer. Estrogen used alone causes growth of the uterine lining but adding progesterone prevents or decreases this growth, thereby decreasing the risk of developing uterine cancer. If your uterus was removed, then only estrogen is required. Estrogen can be taken as a pill or administered through a skin patch or a vaginal ring. Progesterone can be taken as a pill or a patch or as a vaginal suppository. Women who use estrogen should use the smallest dose that relieves hot flashes. Because of potential side effects and dangers of hormone therapy, many women choose not to use estrogen in any form. Until recently, estrogen had been thought to reduce the incidence of heart attack and stroke in postmenopausal women, but recent clinical trials, known as the Women's Health Initiative, have thrown doubt on that theory. This research shows that women actually may be more at risk of heart attack and stroke while using hormone therapy. Based on this study, the use of estrogen and progesterone is no longer recommended for the prevention of heart disease . Alternative medications to help decrease the intensity of hot flashes include clonidine (Catapres), lofexidine (Britlofex), methyldopa (Aldomet), or antidepressants such as venlafaxine (Effexor), paroxetine (Paxil), fluoxetine (Prozac) and sertraline (Zoloft). For women who have undergone surgical menopause and have unusually severe hot flashes, some studies have shown that a combination of estrogen and androgen may be effective. Several nonprescription herbal remedies have been proposed as natural ways to prevent or treat hot flashes. Many of these treatments have not been studied in large clinical trials. Although black cohosh has been previously promoted as a treatment for hot flashes, a study reported in the December 2006 Annals of Internal Medicine found that the root was no better than a placebo. When To Call a Professional Call your family doctor or gynecologist if hot flashes bother you at home or at work, prevent you from getting a good night's sleep, cause you serious discomfort or otherwise interfere with your quality of life. Prognosis In more than 95% of women, the use of low-dose estrogen medication is effective in treating hot flashes. However, it may take two to four weeks of treatment before improvement is noticeable. With or without using estrogen, hot flashes gradually diminish and disappear completely with time. Additional Info American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists P.O. Box 96920 Washington, DC 20090-6920 Phone: 202-638-5577 http://www.acog.org/ National Women's Health Information Center (NWHIC) Toll-Free: 1-800-994-9662 TTY: 1-888-220-5446 http://www.4woman.org/ Last Annual Review Date: Mar 24, 2009 Copyright: Medical content reviewed by the Faculty of the Harvard Medical School.  Copyright © 2010 by Harvard University.  All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Filed Under: Menopause View More “ Symptoms & Causes ” Articles (12) Featured Articles Are You In, Out or Post-Menopause Coping With Perimenopause Menopause: Effects of Low Estrogen Levels ----- Are You In, Out or Post-Menopause By the way, doctor: Do birth control pills disguise menopause? Coping With Perimenopause Depression at perimenopause: More than just hormones Hot Flashes How Women Can Avoid Midlife Weight Gain Lifestyle Choices and Severity of Menopause Symptoms Menopause and Cholesterol Levels Menopause and High Blood Pressure Mood Changes in Menopause Perimenopause Premarin and Duration of Menopause Symptoms UP NEXT ›› How Women Can Avoid Midlife Weight Gain Glossary of Menopause Terms View All Terms Androgen , Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry , Endometrium , Estrogen , Follicle , Hot Flash , Hysterectomy , Osteoporosis , Perimenopause , Progestogen , Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator Your Guide to Menopause Menopause Quick Overview Symptoms & Causes Treatment Living with Menopause Personalized HealthCoach Action Plans Are you wondering how to better control your symptoms? Take a health test to get on track. Joint Pain of Knee Arthritis Intrusive Thoughts of Schizophrenia Itchy Skin Patches of Psoriasis Leg Sensations of RLS Mood Changes of Depression View All HealthCoaches Expert Advice from Harvard Medical School Are You In, Out or Post-Menopause Menopause Makeover Experts Caution on 'Bioidentical' Hormones Hot Flashes Hormone therapy: The risk-benefit tightrope Menopause Features Take the Healthy Bones Test What is Perimenopause? Keeping an Eye on Your Bones Sex and Aging: Talking About Sex Menopause Quiz Male Menopause Did You Know? View Source Close Medical Reviewer: Bailey, Andrew RN, BSN, MEd Medical Reviewer: Pierce-Smith, Daphne RN, MSN, CCRC, FNP Copyright: Copyright Health Ink & Vitality Communications The average age of a woman having her last period is age 51. Menopause Related Conditions Breast Cancer Depression Endometrial (Uterine) Cancer Fatigue Heart Disease Migraines Osteoporosis Overactive Bladder Ovarian Cancer Health News Today Feed Health Tip: Caring for a Sunburn 04/27/2012 Health Tip: What Constitutes 'Healthy Eating?' 04/27/2012 Kids' Kidney Transplant Rules May Have Shrunk 'Race Gap' 04/26/2012 Scientists Identify Gene Behind Pygmies' Short Stature 04/26/2012 Healthy Behaviors Extend Life After Cancer, Experts Say 04/26/2012 View More Menopause News EXPERT Q + A Stem Cell Transplants Help Multiple Myeloma IN THE NEWS The allergy triggers inside can be the hardest to avoid. More about controlling indoor allergens › CHRONIC MIGRAINE QUIZ Chronic Migraine Quiz: Is it chronic migraine? HEALTH TESTS Depression Stubborn Psoriasis Rosacea Skin Test Schizophrenia Treatment SLIDESHOW Stepping Up Depression Treatment Better Medicine Logo POPULAR HEALTH SECTIONS Allergies and the Immune System Bones, Joints and Muscles Brain and Nerves Cancer Diabetes and the Endocrine System Digestive System Ear, Nose and Throat Eyes and Vision Female Reproductive System Food, Nutrition and Diet Genetics and Birth Defects Heart, Blood and Circulation Infections and Contagious Diseases Injuries and Wounds Kidneys and the Urinary System Lungs, Breathing and Respiration Male Reproductive System Mental Health and Behavior Metabolic System Mouth, Teeth and Oral Health Poisoning and Environmental Health Sexual Health Skin, Hair and Nails © Copyright 2012 Better Medicine. All Rights Reserved. ABOUT Better Medicine Privacy Policy User Agreement Advertising Policy Advertise With Us Editorial Policy Site 