</node/99>; rel="shortlink",</CD004987/acupuncture-to-treat-vascular-dementia>; rel="canonical"
X-Generator: Drupal 7 (http://drupal.org)
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Acupuncture to treat vascular dementia | Cochrane Summaries Skip to main content Cochrane Summaries beta Independent high-quality evidence for health care decision making English Deutsch Español to Cochrane.org to The Cochrane Library Tell us what you think! How to use this site Browse health topics | New and updated Acupuncture to treat vascular dementia Have your say! ' Your views on The Cochrane Library : survey ' Peng W, Wang Y, Zhang Y, Liang CM Published Online: October 5, 2011 There is no evidence from randomized controlled trials to determine whether acupuncture provides any effect when treating people with vascular dementia. Acupuncture is used to treat vascular dementia, but because no randomized controlled trials of acupuncture versus placebo were found its efficacy and safety could not be analysed in this review. There is a need for randomized placebo-controlled trials of acupuncture for people with vascular dementia. Abstract (click to read) Background: Dementia is a widespread condition characterized by acquired global impairment of intellect, memory and personality, but without impairment of consciousness. There is no definitive treatment for vascular dementia. Acupuncture is an ancient Chinese method that has been used for the prevention and treatment of diseases over three-thousand years. Many kinds of acupuncture methods such as body acupuncture, scalp acupuncture and electroacupuncture are in use for the treatment of vascular dementia in hospitals in China. Body acupuncture and electroacupuncture are the most commonly used. Objectives: To assess the efficacy and possible adverse effects of acupuncture therapy for treating vascular dementia. Search strategy: We searched ALOIS, the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group Specialized Register, on 24 January 2011 using the terms and tags created for records of studies in dementia using acupuncture. ALOIS contains records of clinical trials identified from monthly searches of a number of major healthcare databases, numerous trial registries and grey literature sources. In addition, the Allied and Complementary Medicine Database was searched and the web was searched using the search engine Copernic. Selection criteria: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) testing acupuncture therapy in the treatment of vascular dementia were eligible for inclusion, regardless of language and publication type. Studies with inadequate randomisation were excluded. Studies were excluded if participants were receiving any treatment for their vascular dementia other than the acupuncture intervention or control treatment. Data collection and analysis: Studies were selected for inclusion and data were extracted by two review authors working independently. Comparisons were made between patients treated with acupuncture and controls, on an intention-to-treat basis where possible. If possible, data from different trials were pooled and overall estimates of the treatment difference were calculated. Weighted or standardised mean differences or odds ratios were used, as appropriate. Main results: In the absence of any suitable randomized placebo-controlled trials in this area, we were unable to perform a meta-analysis. Authors' conclusions: The effectiveness of acupuncture for vascular dementia is uncertain. More evidence is required to show that vascular dementia can be treated effectively by acupuncture. There are no RCTs and high quality trials are few. Randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trials are urgently needed. This record should be cited as: Peng W, Wang Y, Zhang Y, Liang CM. Acupuncture for vascular dementia. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007, Issue 2. Art. No.: CD004987. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004987.pub2 Assessed as up to date: April 27, 2011 Find the research Get full text at The Cochrane Library Primary Review Group: Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group Health topics: Mental health > Dementia & cognition > Rehabilitation & care Neurology > Dementia & cognition > Rehabilitation & care Complementary & alternative medicine > Mental health > Dementia & cognition Complementary & alternative medicine > Neurology > Dementia & cognition More like this There is insufficient evidence to determine whether light therapy is effective in the management of cognitive, sleep, functional, behavioural or psychiatric disturbances in dementia Insufficient data to determine the efficacy of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for dementia There is no substantial evidence to support nor discourage the use of music therapy in the care of older people with dementia No evidence that folic acid with or without vitamin B12 improves cognitive function of unselected elderly people with or without dementia. Long-term supplementation may benefit cognitive function of healthy older people with high homocysteine levels Procaine is a controversial substance that has been used for "antiageing" effects including cognitive improvement for more than 50 years Special topics Asthma Depression (coming soon) Dementia (coming soon) Arthritis (coming soon) and more (coming soon) Browse New and updated New and updated RSS Podcasts PEARLS Top 50 Last 24 hours Last 7 days Last 30 days Last 3 months About About this site How to use this site Tell us what you think About Cochrane Discl