Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Role of male circumcision in HIV transmission
    insignificant in conjugal relationship T HE C IRCUMCISION R EFERENCE L IBRARY FOURTEENTH INTERNATIONAL AIDS CONFERENCE, Barcelona,
    Spain, July 7-12, 2002. Role of male circumcision in HIV transmission
      insignificant in conjugal relationship Int Conf AIDS 2002 Jul 7-12; 14:(abstract no.
      ThPeC7420) Changedia SM, Gilada IS Unison Medicare &Research Centre ,
      Mumbai, India BACKGROUND: Some anthropological studies and review
      of dozens of epidemiologic studies suggests that the relative
      risk of heterosexual HIV infection, the predominant route HIV
      is spread throughout Africa and Asia, is two to eight times
      higher for uncircumcised men. While this may be true for
      efficiency of HIV transmission rate per sexual act, the
      effect of circumcision on HIV transmission in conjugal
      relationship has been an important area of study. The
      suggestion that the public health promotion of male
      circumcision could potentially save millions of men and their
      partners from becoming infected with HIV has generated some
      debate. METHODS: A retrospective study of among index cases
      attending a comprehensive HIV Care Clinic was conducted. We
      analysed their marital status, whether they were circumcised
      and HIV concordance in conjugal relationship to establish the
      effect of circumcision on protection offered to their spouses
      or vice versa from HIV infection. This was compared to equal
      number of non-circumcised men from the same study group. RESULTS: Of the total 3223 live HIV patients, 210
      belonged to Muslim community that follows male-circumcision
      as a cultural practice, of which 168 were married. Of the 40
      discordant patients, men:women ratio was 35:5; while in
      control group of the 47 discordant patients this ratio was
      37:10. The table reveals the findings with respect to HIV
      status and circumcision. The HIV
      discordance rate among couples did not differ according to
      the status of circumcision. [table: see text] CONCLUSION: Though circumcision offers protection
      in acquisition of HIV infection, our
      findings reveal that it does not reduce transmission of HIV
      in conjugal settings. This is important in formulating
      IEC messages since many believe that circumsized men don't
      acquire nor likely to transmit HIV infection as a protection
      derived by circumcision and may continue the risk
      behaviour. Keywords: AEGIS, Circumcision, HIV Infections, HIV
      Seropositivity, Heterosexuality, Marital Status, Family
      Characteristics, Risk-Taking, Demography, Epidemiologic
      Studies, Retrospective Studies, Africa, Asia, Human, Male,
      Female, transmission, surgery, circumcision, hiv infections,
      hiv seropositivity, heterosexuality, marital status, family
      characteristics, risk-taking,demography, epidemiologic
      studies, retrospective studies,africa,asia, human, male,
      female, transmission, surgery" 020707 ThPeC7420 Citation: Changedia SM, Gilada IS. Role of male circumcision in HIV
      transmission insignificant in conjugal relationship (abstract
      no. ThPeC7420). Presented at the Fourteenth International
      AIDS Conference, Barcelona, Spain, July 7-12, 2002. (File created 11 December 2006) Return to CIRP
      Li