
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 06:07:41 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.26 (Unix) mod_oas/4.64
set-cookie: RMID=8002cf4f4f5c4120; expires=Fri, 31-Dec-2010 23:59:59 GMT; path=/; domain=.membrane.com
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture in Philadelphia PA and Acupuncturists in Montgomery County PA 
Specializing in Sports Acupuncture, Smoking Cessation, Ear Candling, Allergy and Sinus Treatment,
holistic health care services in Philadelphia,
Acupuncture in Pennsylvania New Jersey Delaware Meredith Murphy, L.Ac., MaAC, DiplAc Licensed  Acupuncturist Specializing in Chinese, Japanese, Korean Acupuncture as well as many other Asian modalities of natural health and healing. The Healing Point - Acupuncture and Wholistic Health Center 215 W. Church Road, Suite 112, King of Prussia, PA 19406 · 610-265-1827 Contact Us · Testimonials · Driving Directions Our scheduling is flexible -- 
Saturday and evening appointments are available. Please call or click here to contact us
with questions or about scheduling an appointment. Schedule An Appointment Online! · Visit Our Blog! Senior Discount Available WHAT IS ACUPUNCTURE/CHINESE MEDICINE? Acupuncture is part of a comprehensive medical system, originating 
in China over 2000 years ago.  In the last few decades, it has
gained much popularity in the United States.  Acupuncture 
utilizes fine needles which are inserted at specific points 
on the body.  These needles regulate the body's natural 
energy, what is also referred to as Qi (pronounced "chee").  Health 
is seen as harmonious and balanced flow of Qi, when this flow is 
disrupted, illness occurs. ACUPUNCTURE CAN SAFELY AND EFFECTIVELY TREAT MANY CHRONIC CONDITIONS. ADD & ADHD Allergies Asthma Arthritis Auto-immune Disorders Back Pain Carpal Tunnel Colitis Depression & Anxiety Digestive Disorders Dizziness Endometriosis Fatigue Fibromyalgia Frequent Colds and Flus Headaches and Migraines High Blood Pressure Indigestion and Nausea Infertility Insomnia Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) Menstrual Disorders Menopausal Syndrome Pain - acute or chronic Pediatrics PMS Pregnancy (morning sickness, etc.) Repetitive Stress Injury Skin Disorders Stress TMJ Urogenital Disorders Weight Management Women's Health ACUPUNCTURE BASICS Click here to find out if acupuncture is for you
and about those "not so scary" needles. SERVICES OFFERED We offer a myriad of Acupuncture and Asian Healing services for our 
patients. ACUPUNCTURE Three different traditions of acupuncture are utilized 
here- Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.  These techniques all stem 
from the same root, and have evolved into distinct forms of treatment. CUPPING Cupping is an adjunctive technique used most commonly for muscle 
pain and tightness. EAR CANDLING Ear Candling is the use of special conical 
candles in the ear to remove excess wax build up, open and drain 
the sinuses, restore equilibrium, and other ear related disorders. Click here to read more about it. ELECTRO-ACUPUNCTURE Electro-acupuncture has become widely used as an 
effective way to treat pain.  By adding micro-current to the acupuncture 
points, the muscles and painful area relax and the Qi flows more 
smoothly.  Just as with traditional acupuncture, needles are 
inserted in patient- specific points on the body to which a 
device is connected.  The device genereates an electric pulse 
through small clips attached to the needles.  Most patients 
feel a tingling sensation, some patients do not feel anything 
at all.  Please feel free to discuss any specific concerns 
about electro-acupuncture with the acupuncturist. FACIAL REJUVENATION ACUPUNCTURE Also known as cosmetic acupuncture, acupuncture facials, or an acupuncture face lift. Click here for to read more about it. NUTRITION and ACUPUNCTURE For patients seeking alternatives to dieting, a combination of 
acupuncture, Chinese and Western Nutrition and lifestyle 
modifications are utilized to create lasting health solutions. PEDIATRICS and ACUPUNCTURE Children can receive acupuncture treatments and Tuina 
pediatric massage for almost any childhood illness.  
Children can be treated for chronic ear infections, 
headaches, stomach aches, ADHD, anxiety, depression, 
insomnia, and most other symptoms.  Please discuss with 
the acupuncturist if acupuncture can benefit your child. SMOKING CESSATION Acupuncture has been proven effective for treating many
types of addictive habits from eating to smoking to drugs 
and alcohol.  Meredith Murphy has devised a proven 8 treatment 
smoking cessation program that lasts about 3-4 weeks.  When 
someone signs up for the package of treatments, they qualify 
for a special discount.  Please call the office or fill out 
a contact sheet to request 
specific information on the program and to ask any questions 
you may have. SPORTS ACUPUNCTURE Sports Acupuncture provides a unique way to address different 
muscular-skeletal problems. Whether you are experiencing pain or 
have an injury resulting from extensive training, overuse or a 
simple mishap - a sports acupuncturist can take care of the problem 
using methods different from the traditional Western therapies. 
Treatments are effective, relaxing and frequently produce immediate 
results - a combination that will get you back into your game pain 
free and full of energy. Sprains Strains Pulled Muscles Weakness Fatigue Recurring Injuries Asthma Endurance Any sports injury ABOUT THE ACUPUNTURIST Meredith Murphy is a licensed acupuncturist in the state of Pennsylvania 
and certified as a Diplomate of Acupuncture by the National Certification 
Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM).  She received 
her Master of Acupuncture degree from the New England School of Acupuncture 
in Massachusetts, the oldest school of acupuncture in the country and a 
leader in the field of traditional Asian medicine.  Meredith has been 
classically trained in Japanese and Chinese acupuncture, as well as 
additional training in pediatric insertive and non-insertive acupuncture, 
Korean acupuncture, Five Element acupuncture, and Tuina massage.  Over 
the course of two years, she has studied Facial Rejuvenation with 
Virginia Doran, using acupuncture as an alternative to facial cosmetic surgery. Meredith is active in the community and in the forefront of public education 
about acupuncture and Chinese Medicine. She has been on TV shows such as 
Healthwatch on the CBS 11 o’clock news and Tea With Sherri, as well as in 
national and local publications such as Running Times magazine and Philadelphia 
Style magazine. You may also be able to catch her at one of the many local 
health fairs in the area. Please call or click here to contact us
with questions or about scheduling an appointment. Meredith Murphy is part of
the Health and Wellness Network In