
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 09:32:46 GMT
Server: Microsoft IIS/4.0
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture for Cancer, Asthma, Food Allergies, Multiple Sclerosis - What Does the Research Say? Alternative Medicine That Works for Regular Folks Updated May 15, 2003 Article 
              Archives Find 
              Acupuncture and Herbs in Your Area Get Powerful Body, Peaceful Mind , The Alternative Medicine Book 
              of the Decade Acupuncture for Cancer, Asthma, Food Allergies, 
                      Multiple Sclerosis - What Does the Research Say? by Brian Carter, 
                      MSci, LAc Last week, I worked with a freelance journalist on a survey 
                    of holistic medicine. Initially, part of her article said:"Some 
                    websites claim acupuncture can treat cancer, asthma, food 
                    allergies, multiple sclerosis, and myriad other diseases.... ...Generally, these sites are reporting evidence based on personal 
                experience rather than scientific documentation. Contrary to reports 
                on the Web and in print, there is no scientific evidence to prove 
                acupuncture is effective in treating such disease processes." I took that as a challenge. I've found that journalists and skeptics 
                often rely on outdated sources for the state of acupuncture research, 
                so I thought I'd just check with MEDLINE, the National Library 
                of Medicine's database of 12 million scientific journal citations. 
                The results below indicated that, to be accurate, she would have 
                to say that acupuncture has proven its value as an adjunctive 
                (complementary) cancer therapy, and though not effective for all 
                types of asthma, acupuncture does improve allergic asthma. I couldn't 
                find anything on food allergies (and it doesn't make good scientific 
                sense that it would change food allergies, though it might moderate 
                them... but we don't know yet). Though there was no proof that 
                acupuncture could treat multiple sclerosis (MS), there was a study 
                explained how we could use acupuncture points for earlier MS detection. From Studies and Reviews of the Scientific Literature Found on 
                MEDLINE: Acupuncture in the Treatment of Cancer "Acupuncture's use in cancer patients has been recommended 
                by the American Cancer Society (ACS) for the treatment of cancer 
                and treatment-related symptoms. Pain, nausea, breathlessness, 
                vasomotor symptoms and limb edema have all been found to respond 
                to this treatment modality. In addition, the immunomodulatory 
                effects of acupuncture, both via the release of pituitary beta-endorphin 
                and ACTH, as well as alleviating patient stress through relief 
                of symptoms, are anti-carcinogenic (work against factors that 
                lead to cancer)." - source "Patients with cancer or symptoms referable to cancer therapy 
                were offered acupuncture as potential palliation of their symptoms... 
                Most patients (60%) showed at least 30% improvement in their symptoms. 
                About one-third of patients had no change in severity of symptoms. 
                There were no untoward effects reported related to the acupuncture. 
                When analyzed by diagnosis, these values persist. Irrespective 
                of response to therapy, 86% of respondents considered it 'very 
                important' that we continue to provide acupuncture services. ... 
                Acupuncture may contribute to control of symptoms for cancer patients. 
                Expansion of providers, continued patient follow-up, optimization 
                of techniques and prospective objective measurement of response 
                continue in our clinic." - source Acupuncture in the Treatment of Asthma Results depend on the type of asthma. High-quality studies show 
                that acupuncture is not effective for bronchial, or mild persistent 
                asthma, but, it is effective for allergic asthma. "In a randomized, controlled study we investigated immunologic 
                effects of Chinese acupuncture on patients with allergic asthma.... 
                lymphocyte subpopulations the CD3+ cells (p = 0.005) and CD4+ 
                cells (p = 0.014) increased significantly. There were also significant 
                changes in cytokine concentrations: interleukin (IL)-6 (p = 0.026) 
                and IL-10 (p = 0.001) decreased whereas IL-8 (p = 0.050) rose 
                significantly. Additionally, the in vitro lymphocyte proliferation 
                rate increased significantly (p = 0.035) while the number of eosinophils 
                decreased from 4.4% to 3.3% after acupuncture (p > 0.05). ... 
                results imply that asthma patients benefit from acupuncture treatment 
                given in addition to conventional therapy. Furthermore, acupuncture 
                performed in accordance with the principles of TCM showed significant 
                immune-modulating effects." - source More 
                information on acupuncture and allergy Acupuncture in the Detection of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) For earlier detection of MS: "In this article the peculiar behavior of all treated patients 
                is described: increased sensibility of the skin over the acupuncture 
                loci, while insertion of the acupuncture needles provoke spasms, 
                clonus and even tonic-clonic contractions of the muscles of the 
                extremities. This phenomenon is very specific and can be used 
                as an early sign of this ill-fated illness." - source More Resources: MEDLINE 
                  (PubMed) Herbs for Leukemia Colon Cancer and Diarrhea AcuBriefs, 
                  the biggest repository of acupuncture research online Join the PulseMed mailing list Email: About 
          The PULSE All information herein provided is for educational use only and not meant to substitute
for the advice of appropriate local experts and authorities. Copyright 1999-2074, Pulse Med