</press-release/low-carb-diets-no-more-effective-long-term-weight-loss>; rel="canonical",</node/56>; rel="shortlink"
Cache-Control: public, max-age=0
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding
Last-Modified: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 19:08:25 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Bariatric Surgery vs Low Carb Diet Plan Effectiveness by Pacific Bariatric Jump to Navigation Sign up to recieve our newsletter! Email * X Email Sign Up | Bariatric Surgery 101 | Contact A Lasting Solution to Clinically Severe Obesity A Designated Bariatric Center of Excellence Home The PBSMG Advantage The Program The Team The Center Your Options Gastric Banding Surgery Gastric Bypass Surgery Gastric Sleeve Surgery Patient Experiences Free Seminars Anaheim El Centro Riverside San Diego Lifelong Support You are here Home /  Low-Carb Diets No More Effective for Long-Term Weight Loss Low-Carb Diets No More Effective for Long-Term Weight Loss Pre-Op Questions: (800) 267-7212 Click here to attend a Free seminar in your area SAN DIEGO – The popularity of low- or no-carb diets is holding strong, but new evidence suggests that this common dieting method is no more effective for weight loss than simple calorie counting. Carbohydrates, such as bread, potatoes, cereal and pasta, have been cited in the past as a source of weight gain and as a result have been banned from many popular diet plans. Recent studies have determined that there is no significant weight-loss difference between people who eat carbohydrates and those who do not. Diet and exercise are the cornerstones of long-lasting weight loss, but for some people, significant results may remain elusive despite these changes in lifestyle. For these individuals, weight loss surgery is often the next step. Designed to reduce the size of a person’s stomach, bariatric surgery is often a permanent weight loss solution. “Many of our patients struggle with obesity after years of dieting before seeking medical intervention,” said Laurence Tanaka, M.D. , F.A.C.S., surgeon at Scripps Mercy Hospital and Pacific Bariatric Surgical Medical Group. “For these individuals, bariatric surgery may prove the most promising option for long-lasting weight loss that will significantly improve their quality of life.” Surgeons at Pacific Bariatric have performed more than 14,000 procedures on adult and adolescent patients at Scripps Mercy Hospital. As a result of our outstanding aftercare programs and support groups, patients at Pacific Bariatric see a success rate of slightly higher than the national average. Pacific Bariatric Surgical Medical Group, Inc. and Scripps Mercy Hospital are nationally designated by the American Society for Bariatric Surgery as a Center of Excellence for Bariatric Surgery . Pacific Bariatric Surgical Medical Group, also known as Hillcrest Surgical Medical Group, Inc., has an 80-year tradition of surgical excellence and leadership in San Diego County. For more information, visit www.pacificbariatric.com . Established in 1890 by the Sisters of Mercy, Scripps Mercy Hospital serves the San Diego and Chula Vista communities. With 700 licensed beds, more than 3,000 employees and 1,300 physicians, Scripps Mercy Hospital is San Diego’s longest established and only Catholic hospital. With two campuses, Scripps Mercy Hospital is the largest hospital in San Diego County and one of the 10 largest in California. For more information, visit www.scripps.org . PRESS RELEASE For Immediate Release May 15, 2007 Contact: Clair Boyer Phone: (800) 267-7212 Email: cboyer@pbsmg.com Pacific Bariatric has a no program fee policy. Click here to learn more >> Patient Experiences “Since I have had gastric bypass surgery all my ailments that I had prior to surgery have all gone away. I had high blood pressure, high cholesterol and sleep apnea and it all disappeared...” - Cheryl Demaree “Pacific Bariatric was extremely supportive throughout my entire journey. Having the surgery at Scripps Hospital was the best experience I have ever had...” - Rosarie Hammerstein Click here to learn more >> CONTACT US Pacific Bariatric Surgical Medical Group 4060 Fourth Ave., Ste 330 San Diego, CA 92103 Pre-Op Questions: (619) 681-1933 or (800) 267-7212 Post-Op Questions: (619) 298-9931 For questions about our program or if you are currently in process please call (619) 681-1933 or (800) 267-7212 Click here for more information >> ©2