
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 09:14:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Ua-Compatible: IE=8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Cavities and Tooth Decay - Dentist Castle Pines, CO - Dental Education Library Home Staff Office/Services New Patients Oral Sedation Smile Gallery Appointment Request Our Community Appointment Request Whitening Implants CEREC Educational Videos Dental Organization of Conscious Sedation Dentists Castle Pines, CO Castle Pines Family Dentistry 562 E. Castle Pines Parkway Castle Pines , CO 80108-4609 (720) 733-7799 Cavities and Tooth Decay Online Dental Education Library Our team of dental specialists and staff strive to improve the overall health of our patients by focusing on preventing, diagnosing and treating conditions associated with your teeth and gums. Please use our dental library to learn more about dental problems and treatments available. If you have questions or need to schedule an appointment , contact us . What Is Tooth Decay? Tooth decay is caused by a variety of things; in medical terms, cavities are called caries, which are caused by long-term destructive forces acting on tooth structures such as enamel and the tooth's inner dentin material. These destructive forces include frequent exposure to foods rich in sugar and carbohydrates; soda, candy, ice cream-even milk-are the common culprits. Left inside your mouth from non-brushing and flossing, these materials break down quickly, allowing bacteria to do their dirty work in the form of a harmful, colorless sticky substance called plaque. The plaque works in concert with leftover food particles in your mouth to form harmful acids that destroy enamel and other tooth structures. If cavities aren't treated early enough, they can lead to more serious problems requiring treatments such as root canal therapy. Preventing Cavities The best defense against cavities is good oral hygiene, including brushing with a fluoride toothpaste, flossing and rinsing. Your body's own saliva is also an excellent cavity fighter, because it contains special chemicals that rinse away many harmful materials. Chewing a good sugarless gum will stimulate saliva production between brushing. Special sealants and varnishes can also be applied to stave off cavities from forming. If you have any of the following symptoms, you may have a cavity: Unusual sensitivity to hot and cold water or foods. A localized pain in your tooth or near the gum line. Teeth that change color. Baby Bottle Tooth Decay Baby bottle tooth decay is caused by sugary substances in breast milk and some juices, which combine with saliva to form pools inside the baby's mouth. If left untreated, this can lead to premature decay of your baby's future primary teeth, which can later hamper the proper formation of permanent teeth. One of the best ways to avoid baby bottle tooth decay is to not allow your baby to nurse on a bottle while going to sleep. Encouraging your toddler to drink from a cup as early as possible will also help stave off the problems associated with baby bottle tooth decay. Patient Library Oral Health Topics Introduction Fluoride The Preventive Program Fillings Infection Control Medication and Heart Disease Latex Allergy Age and Oral Health Tobacco Oral Piercing Tooth Care What is Tooth Decay? Brushing Flossing Fluoride Facts Mouth Rinses Sealants X-Rays Denture Care Emergency Care Prevention Tips for Children Women and Tooth Care Seniors and Oral Health Nutrition and Your Teeth Dental Problems Abscessed Tooth Bad Breath (halitosis) Bulimia Nervosa Canker/Cold Sores Cavities and Tooth Decay Toothaches Diabetes Dry Mouth Fluorosis Gum Disease (Gingivitis) Impacted/Wisdom Teeth Lacerations and Cuts Oral Cancer Plaque Sensitive Teeth Teeth Grinding (Bruxism) Jaw Disorders Treatment Braces (Orthodontia) Sealants Missing Teeth Bridges Crowns Root Canal Therapy Extractions Scaling and Root Planing Flap Surgery Dentures Jaw/TMJ Maxillofacial Surgery Cosmetic Dentistry Veneers Teeth Whitening Bleaching Chipped, Cracked, and Worn Teeth Implants Grafts Old and Unsightly Fillings Bonding Excessive or Uneven Gums Ridge Augmentation Invisalign ® Crowns and Bridges Pain Management Overview Managing Pain Anesthesia Air Abrasion Medications Patient Information Your First Dental Visit Dental Emergencies Your Rights as a Patient Product Reviews Oral Health Products Choosing a Toothbrush Types of Floss Water Picks Mouth Guards Glossary Links We encourage you to contact us whenever you have an interest or concern about our services. Contact us with the form below or at: 720-733-7799 Name Email Phone Message Follow Us Review Castle Pines Family Dentistry at Mamapedia Now serving Castle Rock CO, Castle Pines CO, Lone Tree CO, and Highlands Ranch CO Dentist - Castle Rock, Castle Pines Family Dentistry, 562 E. Castle Pines Parkway, Suite C-8, Castle Pines CO, 80108-4609 ph:720-733-7799 fax:720-733-0677 email: drscheich@yahoo.com Home Staff Office Services New Patients Patient Education Contact Us Appointment Request