
Specialized Treatment for Incontinence | Sutter Tracy Community Hospital Skip Navigation Display Mode: Choose Default Style Choose High Contrast Home Employment About Us Search site Search Find a Doctor News Health Information Tracy Hospital Foundation Community Services Patient Services Section Title Patient Services Surgical Services Family Birth Center Sutter Tracy Imaging Center Women's Services Main content Specialized Treatment for Incontinence The specialists at the Sutter Tracy Wound Ostomy Continence Center offer a broad range of treatments to help relieve the symptoms of fecal (bowel) and urinary incontinence, a problem affecting millions of Americans, including up to 30 percent of women over age 40. The modern, state-of-the-art facility is the only one of its kind in San Joaquin County. Our highly trained specialists use the latest equipment, such as Video Urodynamics, to diagnosis incontinence and offer a variety of effective treatments. Experienced professionals, they understand the psychological and emotional impact incontinence can have on your life. They are here to help you and will address your concerns and questions with sensitivity and compassion. Many people find that their symptoms decrease or disappear after learning some simple techniques they can do at home. When surgery is called for, many procedures can be done on an outpatient basis. Incontinence Treatments Bladder training, biofeedback and electrical stimulation Surgery, including pelvic floor reconstruction and urethral slings The Medtronic Interstim Therapy device to regulate urinary function Help for Loved Ones If you have a loved one who suffers from incontinence, ask about our Prompted Voiding Training program. The program can teach you how to help an invalid family member get to the bathroom and void. With proper training, you may be able to provide the help your loved one needs to be cared for at home instead of in a nursing facility. About Our Sutter Health Network Contact Us Privacy Policy Accessibility Home © 2008 Sutter Tracy Community Hospital. All rights reserved. Sutter Health is a registered tradema