
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx admin
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 11:17:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
X-Cache: HIT from Backend

Types of honey and benefits for human health Home page Submit articles Contact us Types of honey and benefits for human health Why are there so many different kinds   of honey? The flavor and color of honey depend on which flowers   the bees have been using as a nectar source. Nectar sources   vary with the blooming cycle, location, and weather, and some   local beekeepers collect particular types of honey in coordination   with the blooming of certain flowers that they prefer. Many   beekeepers think that the best honey-making nectar comes   from alfalfa, tupelo, buckwheat, clover, cotton, and orange. Beekeepers   typically allow the bees to keep honey that they make   from other flowers, and many hobby beekeepers don't try to label   their honey based on the floral crop - they are simply happy   to have a crop of naturally harvested honey. Honey of mixed   floral origins is generally labeled "wildflower" honey. Natural   food stores, growers, and farmers' markets typically sell honeys   made from plants that grow locally, and stores in New York and   elsewhere sell unusual honeys imported from Morocco, labeled   carob seed, lavender, and jujube (a bitter, apple-like fruit.) There are also different types of honey depending on how   much it is processed. There is cut comb honey (cut straight from   the honeycomb and bottled with the honeycomb wax), certified   organic, chunk, strained or filtered, ultrafiltered, heat-treated,   ultrasonicated, churned or whipped (also called honey fondant   or spun honey), crystallized, and set honey. Raw honey is produced   without heating, and some people consider this the tastiest   type of honey available. Crystallized or whipped honey is the   most preferred form of honey in many places in Europe, while   Americans tend to prefer liquid honey. Is honey good for you? Honey never spoils (if it is stored properly) and contains   a surprisingly high level of antioxidants, non-nutritive   agents that can slow destructive chemical reactions in food and   animal tissues. A recent survey of a variety of monofloral honeys   determined that, in general, the darker the honey, the higher   the value of its antioxidant content. Buckwheat honey, one of   the darkest types tested by May Berenbaum along with Steve   Frankel and Gene Robinson, had the highest antioxidant content,   greater than sunflower, tupelo, soybean, and clover varieties. Honey is also a good source of carbohydrates to fuel aerobic   exercise. According to Richard Kreider and colleagues, honey   is easily digestible and its fuel is released very steadily after it is   eaten, suggesting that it is an excellent way to promote sports   performance and recovery. Skeptics, however, warn that honey is simply touted as a fad diet for athletes. Bassan Zeina and colleagues state that honey is effective   against a tropical, infectious parasite called Leishmania. In   multiple studies, Mutya Subrahmanyam and colleagues indicate   that mild burns healed faster when treated with honey   and covered with gauze than similar burns that were treated   with antibiotic creams and other dressings. Many reports about medical uses   of honey are anecdotal rather than being based on scientific   or experimental studies; for example, in Sierra Leone, a drop   of honey is put in each ear of a newborn baby to prevent infection.   There is some evidence that honey may be a useful way   to combat periodontal disease and gingivitis, but contrary evidence   indicates that the highly acidic nature of honey makes the sugar content potentially damaging to the human mouth   and teeth. A study published in the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent   Medicine in 2007 by Ian Paul and colleagues suggests that honey   may be beneficial to children suffering with persistent coughs.   One hundred and five symptomatic children aged two to eighteen   years of age participated in the study: thirty minutes before   bedtime, they were given either a dose of buckwheat honey,   honey-flavored cough medicine, or no treatment. Honey was   rated by the parents of the children as having provided the most   symptomatic relief of the nighttime coughing and sleep diffi-   culty. Clearly, more research is needed to establish the degree   of honey's health benefits. Legal Disclaimer Our website is not responsible for the information contained by this article. Webworldarticles.com is a free articles resource thus practically any visitor can submit an article. However if you notice any copyrighted material, please contact us and we will remove the article(s) in discussion right away. This article was sent to us by: 
      Kyle Treshler      at 
    08192010 Related Articles 1. Can bees see well and distinguish colors Like many insects, bees have more than two eyes -    they actually have five. The two largest are compound eyes that   are set on either side of the head, each containing 4... 2. How do bees hear and feel different tastes Can a bee hear?
Honey bees do not have ears, but they are able to   sense certain frequencies, picking up the vibrations from the   air or from the physical struc... 3. Do bees buzz to communicate with each other Why do bees buzz?
Sometimes buzzing is just the sound of bees at work,   and sometimes bees use buzzing and other noises to guide their   nest mates   The sounds ... 4. What is piping behavior of honey bees Piping behavior describes a series of high-pitched   sounds that reverberate through the colony. Karl von Frisch and   others originally identified these noises as part of ... 5. How do bees sleep and perceive magnetic fields Do bees sleep?
The short answer is yes, indeed, bees do sleep, and they   exhibit some of the same characteristics as humans when they   are asleep: their muscles... 6. How do bees use light and get away from predators How do bees sense and use   polarized light?
The sun generates patterns of polarized light, especially   in the ultraviolet range, and these patterns indicate the... 7. How exactly is a queen bee mating How do bees mate?
A virgin honey bee queen mates early in her life, having   sex "on the fly" with as many as twenty drones over a period   of a few days, and the... All articles in this directory are property of their respective authors. Additionally, read our Privacy Policy © 2010 WebWorl