<< previous story Weight Loss Prescriptions In UK Hit Million Mark next story >> The Dangers Of Obesity Surgery Are Considerable Written by 
Stuart Stevens
| Wednesday, 30 January 2008| There 
is 1 comment You should never let your weight get to the point where you need surgery Some overweight people feel that it is easier for them to have obesity surgery then to go on a weight loss diet. Obviously losing weight is much more difficult and timely if you commit yourself to a program of reduced calories and exercise. It is likely that if you are seriously obese with a body mass index of 35 plus it could end up taking you more than a year to get to a healthy weight. Because of this effort consuming method of losing weight some people opt for having obesity surgery in the form of a gastric band or a stomach reduction procedure. While it sounds extremely simple and easy you should be aware that any form of obesity surgical operation is dangerous and there is always an element of risk. Only recently Ukmedix News learnt that an otherwise healthy obese nineteen year old girl who had a BMI of 44 underwent a stomach reduction operation in Barcelona and died seven hours after the end of the operation. The procedure itself which is by no means simple lasted three hours and like all serious operations involves a certain amount of danger from the anesthetic. The operation was carried out at the Cima Clinic in Barcelona and was performed by an experienced surgeon but nevertheless the girl became critically ill and the hospital was unable to save her. You should never let your weight get to the point where you need surgery and you should make an effort to lose weight when the problem is not that serious. The longer you leave it the more difficult it will be to change your eating habits and get exercise. Obesity surgery should only be contemplated when there is an immediate risk of you getting seriously ill or dying by staying at the same weight. Obesity surgery should not be used as an "easier" option to lose weight. © 2012 This content has been exclusively written by UKMedix [ request source information ] There is 1 comment on this article. On
	February 06, 2012 @  
	16:45 jane said: People shouldn’t let themselves get to that stage! Anyway, whatever helps them to lose weight works. Name : * Comment : * Code : * (please enter the code above) Can't read the image? click here to refresh Fields marked with * are required. Overweight Actually DO Have Big Bones New Expanding Diet Pill The Benefits of Olestra Eat The Right Sort Of Fat Obesity, The UK Child Killer News Home More news on Weight Loss << previous story next story >> ukmedix pharmacy ukmedix health news health news sitemap lifestyle news sex surgery news latest on surgery impotence news viagra | cialis | levitra | priligy weight loss news reductil | xenical | acomplia hair loss news propecia influenza news tamiflu smoking news champix female sexual health news intrinsa Onion Juice Can Help Grow Hair... Really UK Kamagra Seller Narrowly Escapes Prison Watch Out For Fake Reductil Type Meds A Broken Penis Can Usually Be Fixed For Genuine Medication and fast delivery think Ukmedix™ Terms and Conditions | Privacy Statement ©