<http://www.askdrmanny.com/?p=2405>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 11:07:38 GMT
Vary: Cookie
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.3
X-Pingback: http://www.askdrmanny.com/wordpress/xmlrpc.php
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Vary: User-Agent

Cotton Swabs Can Rupture Ear Drums.  Try These Safer Alternatives to Clean Your Inner Ear. | Ask Dr. Manny News Feed | Comments Ask Dr. Manny Home About Dr. Manny Contact Us Recommended Books Alzheimer’s Autism Education Healthy Living Mother & Baby Preventive Health Stem Cell Center Browse > Home / Articles , Featured , Preventive Health / Cotton Swabs Can Rupture Ear Drums.  Try These Safer Alternatives to Clean Your Inner Ear. Cotton Swabs Can Rupture Ear Drums.  Try These Safer Alternatives to Clean Your Inner Ear. April 29, 2011  by Alex Crees Tweet Careful with that cotton swab!  You could rupture an ear drum, according to a new study. Researchers from Henry Ford Hospital have found a direct association between cotton swab use and ruptured ear drums. Providing some comfort to cotton swab users, however, the researchers also found that in 97 percent of cases the rupture heals on its own, and surgery is only necessary for the most severe cases. More than half of patients seen in ear, nose and throat clinics admit to using cotton swabs to clean their ear, regardless of their primary complaint. But doctors warn that if the cotton swab is pushed too far in the ear canal, it can cause serious damage, including a ruptured eardrum (TMP).  Severe TMP can cause facial paralysis and vertigo. “If a patient is experiencing symptoms such as hearing loss, drainage, dizziness or abnormality in their facial movements they should see a doctor immediately to assess the possible ear damage,” said Ilaaf Darrat, M.D., an otolaryngologist at Henry Ford Hospital and co-author of the study, in a press release. Study co-author Michael Seidman, M.D., FACS, director of the division of otologic and neurotologic surgery at Henry Ford Hospital, recommends these methods to clean the ear instead: -Take cool peroxide, hot tap water and mix equally. Be sure it is body temperature and gently irrigate the ear one or two times per month. -Take plain vinegar and water and use four or five drops in the ear once a week. -See a doctor, who can remove ear wax for you. -Try an over-the-counter treatment such as Debrox. Comments Comments are closed. Connect With Dr. Manny eNews & Updates Sign up to receive breaking news as well as receive other site updates! Recent Posts on AskDrManny.com Sector Snap: Weight loss firms rated ‘Overweight’ Sector Snap: Weight loss firms rated ‘Overweight’ Men with heart failure more likely to die than women Is A Bad Job Worse for Mental Health Than Unemployment? March Madness Brackets Can Decrease Enjoyment of Games Dr. Manny on FOXNews.com Dr. Manny Alvarez is the managing editor of health news at Foxnews.com. Visit FOX News Health daily for the top health
news. Check out these breaki