
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 20:32:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Miraculous Health Benefits of Aloe Vera - Part III Home About Product Info Downloads Testimonials Buy Now Free Newsletter Articles Contact Links • Development of PYRO-ENERGEN • History of PYRO-ENERGEN • How PYRO-ENERGEN Works • Why Buy PYRO-ENERGEN? • PYRO-ENERGEN Frequently Asked Questions • How to Use PYRO-ENERGEN • What are Bacteria? What are Viruses? • Origin of Viral Diseases • Viral Diseases and the Fifth Dimension • Lists of Common Incurable Diseases The Miraculous Health Benefits of Aloe Vera – Part III by: Junji Takano Today, you'll learn more of the wonderful medicinal benefits of Aloe Vera. For Part I and Part II of the article, visit http://www.pyroenergen.com/articles10/aloe-vera-health-benefits.htm and http://www.pyroenergen.com/articles10/aloe-vera-immune-system.htm Aloe Vera may look like a simple ornamental plant to you, but it can provide thousands of benefits for your everyday life. Aloe vera is for emergency first aid situations. Aloe vera is for healthy body. Aloe vera may fill all of your medicinal needs. Aloe vera can help save your daily budget. Aloe vera can save your busy time. Aloe vera is your natural home remedy. Aloe vera can support the health of your family. According to some information, there are about 300 or even more varieties of 
Aloe vera in the world. However, we believe that most of these varieties share the same efficacious value and taste. Aloe Vera for First Aid Situations Having an Aloe vera plant in your home garden or in clay pot near your windows can be conveniently utilized for immediate responses to illness or injury. I can tell you that Aloe vera can do hundreds of marvellous works for you. Aloe Vera Helps Combat Even Viral Diseases According to medical books oral herpes is caused by a virus. The virus remains dormant until the time it gets a signal from the body such as when we are tired and stressed, where outbreaks may come on suddenly with skin inflammation and blisters. Building a healthy and strong immune system will help combat the herpes virus and prevent it. When such virus suddenly attack your body and if your body is not prepared, and when there's a sign of inflammation around your lips, try eating fresh aloe vera leaves immediately and apply extracted aloe vera gel around your lips. Through this, you can at least lessen the viral activity and lightly reduce the inflammation of the skin. More importantly, attend to it as quickly as possible to prevent worsening of the symptoms for you to recover before approaching your physicians. Grow Your Own Aloe Vera and Get Benefits of it at Home It is so nice to grow fresh Aloe vera leaves because of its versatility for all-around use. Historically, Aloe vera is also known to have worked in strengthening your heart, veins, and arteries. Unfortunately, the underlying properties of Aloe vera that helps improve the heart are not yet well established medically. However, studies have shown that mucopolysaccharide or glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) , which is an ingredient in Aloe vera gel, is believed to be a contributing factor in enhancing the heart. Mucopolysaccharide of aloe vera contains many micronutrients, that helps soften the blood vessel walls, promotes proper blood circulation, and absorb cholesterol in the blood. In turn, Aloe vera is believed to prevent atherosclerosis and heart disease . However, don't expect that the use of Aloe vera will help improve your blood pressure overnight. Aloe vera must be used and consumed continuously before you will see and feel positive results. In any case, Aloe vera can promote proper blood circulation and prevent the onset of hypertension and arteriosclerosis . Whether it's heart attack, stroke, or other severe and life-threatening illnesses, you can expect a lot to prevent all of these through the consumption of Aloe vera. To improve your everyday living, we really recommend you to take and consume Aloe vera. About the Author: Junji Takano is a Japanese health researcher involved in investigating the cause of many dreadful diseases. In 1968, he invented PYRO-ENERGEN, the first electrostatic therapy device for electromedicine that effectively eradicates viral diseases, cancer, and diseases of unknown cause. Click here to find out more: http://www.pyroenergen.com/about.htm Free health newsletter: http://www.pyroenergen.com/newsletter.htm ------------------------------------------------------------ Reprint Rights: You may reprint this article within your website, blog, or newsletter as long as the entire article remains the same as well as the “About the Author” box. FREE Health Newsletter Sign-up now to receive free weekly health articles via e-mail. Learn the cutting-edge secrets of treatments! Input Your Name and E-mail Address Your Name: Your E-mail Address: E-mail Us info@pyroenergen.com Testimonials "My friend Anne mysteriously lost her psoriasis which bugged her for two weeks after using the machine for only 5 days! Her skin returned to normal and as if she didn't suffer from psoriasis..." More Click Below to Order PYRO-ENERGEN II The World's Leading Electrostatic Therapy / Electromedicine Device Dealers are Welcome Overseas Dealers Inquire for Dealership Now! Other Products PYRO Nerve Stimulator Tell-A-Friend Please tell your friends about this site. Click below to email this page to a friend. About | Product Info | Downloads | Testimonials | Ordering | Newsletter | Articles | Contact Us | Links | Privacy Policy | Site Map Copyright © PYRO-ENERGEN® 2004-2011. All Rights Reserved. ANY USE, COPYING, OR REPRODUCTION OF THE PYRO-ENERGEN TRADEMARKS, LOGOS, ARTICLES, AND OTHER CONTENTS IN THIS SITE, WITHOUT PRIOR PE