
Practicing Yoga Home >> Yoga Articles >> Practicing Yoga Practicing Yoga In recent years, yoga has become a  practice of many rather than few.  The  beginnings are traced back to ancient India, and the country is still the  leading land for yogi, or the people that do yoga.  There are many reasons that the people of our  planet engage in this spiritual activity, which has attracted an especially  large following in the Western world.   Practicing yoga makes people feel better.  The controlled breathing, meditation, and  specific postures relax the body   to the  fullest extent, while allowing the mind to become clear.  After yoga, the body feels as though it has  had a full night’s  rest. Due to the great deal of skepticism  surrounding this growing trend, numerous studies have been conducted to  research the ways in which practicing yoga can improve one’s  health.  The results are astounding, and  the list below indicates the conditions in which yoga can help alleviate some  of the symptoms, and improve the issues of: Multiple sclerosis Headaches Diabetes Chronic fatigue Back pain Asthma Carpal tunnel syndrome Heart disease Arthritis Epilepsy Blood pressure Depression Anxiety Stress Aside from enabling people to live  comfortably with certain disorders, yoga also tones and strengthens muscles,  reduces daily stresses, promotes optimal concentration, and improves the blood  flow and general circulation of the body.   Although the health benefits are bonus benefits to practicing yoga, this  is not the reason why it was originally practiced.  In ancient India (about 5,000 years ago) the  Vedic religion consisted of many rituals, and yoga was derived from this belief  system. In Sanskrit, a religious and classic  language of India, yoga translates to the word “union”.   Yoga was intended to bring yogi to a higher level of happiness and  enlightenment.  This union was thought to  bring liberation to its followers.  The  many types of yoga are ways in which this goal can be attained. Hatha yoga instructs yogi to pose and  breathe in certain ways to reach a union.   Pranayama breathing techniques carry the force of life throughout the  body and clear the nasal passages so this force can flow generously.  As the channels of the body clear, the last  vertebrae of the spine can open to release Kundalini.  This serpent like force travels through the  sushumna nadi, which is the main channel, to meet the crown chakra.  Kundalini’s release is another way in which  enlightenment and togetherness can be achieved.   Yoga is diverse, due to the fact that it is not religious, but rather  spiritual, and there are many ways in which to practice it. Many people that currently practice  yoga or are interested in yoga wonder if they are capable of reaching the level  of spiritual light so often discussed.   Yoga instructors feel that some may, and others may not ever reach this  goal, because yoga is a process.  If one  only gains a positive outlook on life and benefits to your health, yoga has  served a purpose in that person’s life. Yoga studies speak of enlightenment, but not  everyone shares the same belief system.   Yoga does not favor certain people over others; everyone is welcome to  practice it.  There are good things  awarded to all who practice it, even skeptics. Acroyoga Ananda Yoga Anusara Yoga Ashtanga Yoga Ayurveda Bhakti Bikram Yoga Hatha Yoga Integral Yoga Iyengar Jivamukti Yoga Karma Yoga Kripalu Yoga Kundalini Yoga Laya Mantra Yoga Nidra Naked Yoga Power Yoga Prenatal Yoga Yoga Dance Yoga for Beginners Yoga for Men Yoga for Children Yoga for Seniors Yoga for Women Shiva Siddha Yoga Sivananda Yoga Swara Yoga Tantra Yoga Vinyasa Yoga Home The Main Premises of Yoga Yoga Positions Yoga Equipment Newsletter Teacher's Directory Retreats About Contact Miami Beach Yoga Ask us a question about yoga! First Name Last Name Email Comments Comments Sign up for our newsletter TheSecretsOfYoga.com - Everything you want to know about yoga! Copyright 2011, TheSecretsOfYoga.com