
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 12:39:05 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.lovemystrutz.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

STRUTZ "Home of the Sole Angel" Overcoming Back Pain – Tips To Help You Feel Better! Posted on 03/05/2012 by steve llorens As sad as it may be, back pain is a condition that effects people of all ages. The cause of the back pain may vary, but one fact is consistent – the pain is something that has to be dealt with. The only way you will know how to deal with the pain is if you know what you are doing. The following pointers can help you tackle back pain effectively. A great way you can work to alleviate back pain is to nip it in the bud by learning your body’s early warning signals. If you pay attention to your body, you know when you’re being pushed too hard and need to rest. Especially for people who have suffered back pain before, you can feel when it’s coming on. Chronic muscle pain, such as back pain, can be caused by a vitamin D deficiency. To get your fair share of this vitamin, eat lots of small-boned fish, fortified milk and cereal. Also, be sure to get frequent exposure to sunlight and don’t forget to use that sunscreen! Make sure you’re drinking enough water every day. With seventy percent of our bodies being water, it’s important that we keep hydrated. Water can keep your body loose and fluid rather than stiff. Staying hydrated will also keep your intervertebral disks functioning as shock absorbers to take a lot of the pressure off the rest of the body. To relieve back pain caused from working at the computer, try adjusting your chair. Adjust your chair’s height to the point that the computer screen is below your eye level and you don’t need to reach up to gain access to your keyboard. Then, move your chair closer to the screen, so you aren’t hunching over while working. This will keep your spine straight and help keep you from worse problems later on. Sometimes it’s hard to find relief from pregnancy-related back pain. Try wearing a maternity belt for some welcome relief. This belt is placed under the belly and attaches behind the back, reducing the forward pull of the growing stomach on back muscles. Many expectant mothers say they can’t live without one! To prevent hurting your back while working out, always warm up before and cool down after your workout. Many people only schedule enough time to do their actual workout. Nevertheless, asking your back to lift and strain without first stretching it out is a sure way to injure it. A couple of minutes for back stretching exercises are all it takes to transition safely in and out of your workout. Often times back pain pain can be caused by poor arch support in your feet. Relief for this kind of back pain can be achieved with properly fitted shoes with good arch support, insoles or custom orthotics. Another option that may help relieve back pain is to try wearing an arch support product such as Strutz Arch Supports. They can work as shock absorbers and alievate stress on your back from walkingon hard surfaces. Avoiding back pain can be as simple as getting some exercise. Exercise conditions your muscles and joints, resulting in a body that moves better. A body that moves better becomes less prone to injury. Strive for at least twenty minutes of physical activity every day to keep your bones and joints in top notch shape. In conclusion, back pain is a condition that people both young and old suffer from, for an array of reasons. In order to get rid of these pains, you have to know how. Apply the advice that was provided to you here in a consistent manner. You can live a life free of back pain! Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Be Nice to Your Feet Posted on 08/03/2011 by steve llorens Our feet are probably the most neglected part of our bodies.   And in Summer  this is especially true. When the weather gets warmer everyone prefers sandals and  flip flops over sneakers and dress shoes.  Others prefer to go barefoot for as long as they can.  Exposing our feet to the elements and variations in humidity and temperature tend to dry out our feet.  Also, as we age our skin becomes drier and more vulnerable to cracking in our heels.   Some folks are simply predisposed to drier skin on their heels.  The cracks formed on dry heels are also called fissures. If you run or walk long distances the pressure on your feet can cause these cracks to split open and grow deeper.   This is very painful and can lead to bleeding  and even infection.  Cracked heels can put an active person on the sidelines rather very quickly if they are not taken care of properly. How do we prevent dry, cracked heels? Well, we need to be nicer to our feet.  Feet need to be regularly moisturized and exfoliated to get rid of dead skin and calluses. Creams and rich moisturizers that are used for elbows and legs can work well on heels and foot calluses. But, if your feet are unusually dry or cracked you may want to try a cream specifically formulated for the heels.  You can also use a special moisturizing socks that can help moisturize your feet while you sleep.   Doctors recommend using a pumice stone to exfoliate dead skin cells and expose smoother softer skin and drinking plenty of fluids to keep your body hydrated and naturally moisturized.  Follow these simple tips and you can help yourself avoid dry cracked feet. Remember:  To perform your best keep your feet happy.  Be nice to your feet. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Running and Your Feet Posted on 07/25/2011 by steve llorens Based on a document produced in cooperation with the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA).  This article is from the American Academy of Podiatric Sports Medicine (AAPSM) website. Nowhere is the miracle of the foot more clear than watching the human body in motion. The combination of 26 bones, 33 joints, 112 ligaments, and a network of tendons, nerves, and blood vessels all work together to establish the graceful synergy involved in running. The balance, support, and propulsion of a jogger’s body all depend on the foot. But before entering a fitness regimen that includes jogging, don’t forget to make certain your body’s connection with the ground is in proper working order. It is a good idea for a beginning jogger to visit a podiatric physician before starting an exercise program. Your podiatrist will examine your feet and identify potential problems, discuss conditioning, prescribe an orthotic device that fits into a running shoe (if needed), and recommend the best style of footwear for your feet. Frequent joggers ought to see a podiatrist regularly to check for any potential stress on the lower extremities. During a 10-mile run, the feet make 15,000 strikes, at a force of three to four times the body’s weight. If you are more than 40 years old, see a family doctor before starting any exercise regimen. The doctor will perform an electrocardiogram, check for any breathing problems, high cholesterol levels, and high blood pressure before giving the go-ahead for a vigorous exercise program. Anyone, regardless of age, should check with a doctor if a cardiac condition, diabetes, weight problem, or other serious medical condition exists. The Importance of Stretching Before beginning an exercise regimen, proper stretching is essential. If muscles are properly warmed up, the strain on muscles, tendons, and joints is reduced. Before stretching warm up with a 10 minute walk or slow jog. You may then stop and gently stretch. Stretching exercises should take 5-10 minutes, and ought to be conducted in a stretch/hold/relax pattern without any bouncing or pulling. It is important to stretch the propulsion muscles in the back of the leg and thigh (posterior), and not forget the anterior muscles. Wall Push-Up: This stretches the achilles and calf muscles one leg at a time. Stand with the rear foot approximately two to three feet from the wall. The rear leg should be straight, the front leg is bent and your hands touch the wall. Feet point straight ahead, heels are on the ground. Hold for 10 seconds, switch legs, repeat 10 times. Knee Clasp: Lie on a firm surface. A carpeted floor or grass is best. Bring both knees to your chest. Hold for 10 seconds. Repeat 5 times. This stretches the hamstrings and lower back. Hamstring Stretch : Straighten one leg, place it, with the knee locked, on a foot stool. Bend your body and bring your head towards the leg. Hold this position for 10 seconds. Switch sides, repeat 10 times. Proper Footwear Shoe choice should be determined by foot structure (morphology), foot function (over or under pronated or neutral foot), body type (weight), running envirnonment and running regimen. Keep in mind that all shoes have a different shape, and sizes and widths are not uniform from shoe to shoe. Consider whether an orthotic device will be placed in your shoe, and whether your running style is flat-footed or on the balls of the feet. Shoes should provide cushioning for shock absorption, and ought to be able to fully bend at the ball of the foot area and remain stable in the midfoot. Visit the shoe store in the afternoon and wear the type of sock you plan to use while training. The best socks are those made of moisture wicking material rather than being made of cotton. Training Tips Systematic exercises must progress slowly from easy to rigorous to prevent debilitating muscle strain or more serious injury. The best and safest way to start a running program is with a four-day-per-week conditioning program for 12-16 weeks. Begin with two sets of two-minute jogs interspersed with five minutes of fast walking. If muscles are stiff, walk only; have an “easy day” if you’re in pain. As the weeks progress, gradually increase the number of minutes jogged per set to 20 minutes. Spend at least five workouts at each new level attained. By the 16th week, you should be able to run two sets of 20 minutes each, with a five-minute walk before, between, and after. Make adjustments for heat and altitude, and don’t be frustrated if you think your pace is too slow. The best way to avoid injury is to avoid what AAPSM Board Member Stephen Pribut, D.P.M. has called the “terrible twos”: too much, too soon, too fast, too often. Proper foot hygiene can also prevent injuries. Keeping feet powdered and dry is important, especially to the jogger suffering from blisters. Blisters can be limited by moisture control. Make sure to wear socks that wick moisture away. This strategy can also help prevent athlete’s foot. Aches and Pains of Running Even with the best preparation, aches and pains are an inevitable result of a new jogging regimen. If the pain subsides with slow easy exercise, you may continue, but if it gets worse, stop the activity and rest. If it persists, see your podiatrist. The most common pain associated with jogging is known as runner’s knee, a catch-all for jogging-related knee pain. One of the most common causes of runner’s knee is excessive pronation, or rolling in and down, of the foot. This syndrome is now often called the patello-femoral pain syndrome. Orthoses (arch supports — shoe inserts) prescribed by your podiatrist are the best way to alleviate the problem. Occasionally, rubber pads in the arch of the shoe will help. Shin splints, which painfully appear at the front and inside of the leg, are caused by running on hard surfaces, overstriding, muscle imbalance, or overuse. Treatment includes changing running technique or insertion of an orthotic device in the shoe. Common Running Injuries Plantar fasciitis (arch pain) — Arch pain is often caused by frequent stress on the plantar aspect, or bottom of the foot. When the plantar fascia, a supportive, fibrous band of tissue running from the heel to the ball of the foot, becomes injured, pain on the bottom of the foot results. Forefoot and rearfoot instability, with excessive pronation, may result in plantar fasciitis. Overtraining may contribute. Shoes with good midfoot stability may help prevent plantar fasciitis. If pain persists visit your sports podiatrist. Heel spurs — Heel spur syndrome, related to plantar fasciitis, occurs after calcium deposits build up on the underside of the heel bone. Heel spurs form gradually over many months. Both plantar fasciitis and heel spurs can be avoided by a proper warm-up that includes stretching the band of tissue on the bottom of the foot. The soft tissue injury is usually the cause of the pain and not the spur itself. Sesamoiditis — Sometimes referred to as the ball bearings of the foot, the sesamoids are a set of accessory bones found beneath the large first metatarsal bone. Incredible forces are exerted on the sesamoid bones during aerobics, and inflammation and fractures can occur. Proper shoe selection and custom orthotic devices can be useful in treating sesamoiditis. Shin splints — Aside from ankle sprains, shin splints are perhaps the most common injury to the lower body, as the muscles attached to the shin bone bring the foot up and down. The pain is usually an inflammation of the shin muscle and tendon due to stress factors. Treat shin pain with cold compresses immediately after the workout to reduce inflammation. Proper stretching before the workout should prevent the onset of shin splints. Strengthening of muscles also helps reduce shin splints. Achilles tendon and calf pain — The frequent rising on the toes of an aerobics routine often creates pain and tightness in the large muscles in the back of the legs, which can create pain and tightness in the calf and inflammation of the achilles tendon. Again, stretching the calf muscles gently and gradually before and after the workout will ordinarily help alleviate the pain and stiffness. Stress fractures — Stress fractures often occur from overtraining. Make sure you gradually increase your running distance and intensity and have an adequate dietary intake of calcium. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment Search for: Recent Posts Overcoming Back Pain – Tips To Help You Feel Better! Be Nice to Your Feet Running and Your Feet Recent Comments Archives March 2012 August 2011 July 2011 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org My Account | Shopping Cart | Affiliate Program | Shipping & Handling | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | FAQs | Sitemap Copyright © 2011 STRUTZ®, Inc. All rights reserved. 560