<http://www.stopsmokingtip.us/?p=543>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Memories Of Your First Cigarette May Help You Quit Smoking | Stop Smoking Tip Stop Smoking Tip - Quit Smoking Now with Free Stop Smoking Hypnosis Sessions Log In Stop Smoking Tip Best Ways To Quit Smoking Now Home Quit Smoking Aids Smoking Buzz Stop Smoking Hypnosis Stop Smoking Tips Therapy Corner About Us Terms Privacy Contact us Black Square Link To Us Our Survey RSS Feeds Share a Tip Sitemap Smoking Bans Subscribe April 22, 2012 Welcome To Stop Smoking Tip! Best Stop Smoking Tips to Quit Smoking For Good Stop Smoking Now with Hypnosis - Free Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Sessions Stop Smoking Aids: What Can Help You Quit Smoking Now Welcome To Stop Smoking Therapy Corner Stop Smoking Buzz: Anti-Smoking Reporting From Unusual Angles E-Cigarettes as a Quit Smoking Aid? Electric Cigarette as a Stop Smoking Aid? Electronic Cigarette: Vaporize Your Smoking Habit E-Cigarette: Alternative To Nicotine Products Having Doubts? Our Black Square Will Cheer You Up Black Square Recent Posts How to Quit Smoking: Surviving the First 7 Days How I Stopped Smoking With Hypnosis – Now Get The Same Full Length Hypnosis Session Free Food That Can Help You Quit Smoking Your Beautiful Mind Will Help You Quit Smoking Talking to Kids About Smoking Or Quitting Smoking Search Site Clear Your Mind. Deal With The Mental Side Of Addiction Stop Smoking Hypnosis Session Best Stop Smoking Tips How to Quit Smoking: Surviving the First 7 Days How I Stopped Smoking With Hypnosis – Now Get The Same Full Length Hypnosis Session Free Food That Can Help You Quit Smoking Talking to Kids About Smoking Or Quitting Smoking Can Miracet Help you Quit Smoking without Withdrawal? Quit Smoking Aids: Our Honest Opinion How I Stopped Smoking With Hypnosis – Now Get The Same Full Length Hypnosis Session Free Can Miracet Help you Quit Smoking without Withdrawal? Vaporize your Smoking Habit with E-Cigarettes Stop Smoking Methods: Quitting With a Plan The Great Nicotine Conspiracy: Who Is Keeping You Addicted? The Answer Will Surprise You Stop Smoking Buzz Talking to Kids About Smoking Or Quitting Smoking Vaporize your Smoking Habit with E-Cigarettes The Great Nicotine Conspiracy: Who Is Keeping You Addicted? The Answer Will Surprise You E-Cigarettes: Like the Real Thing, or Too Good to be True? Celebrity Smokers Quit the Smart Way: With Stop-Smoking Hypnosis Smoking WILL Kill Your Looks: Here’s How Memories Of Your First Cigarette May Help You Quit Smoking By Josh Dartel Alter Your Memories T = THERAPIST C = CLIENT T: I would like you to remember back to one of the first few cigarettes that you ever smoked. T: As you begin to recall one of those first few cigarettes that you ever smoked, nod your head yes, and relax even further. WAIT FOR YES RESPONSE T: Tell me about how old were you back then? C: I was about 15 then. T: I imagine that one of the reasons that you started smoking back then was to look older or more mature, is that right. C: Yes, we all wanted to look like sophisticated women back then. T: Back then at age 15 the cigarettes served a purpose. They did make you look a little older didn’t they. C: We sure thought so. T: Well the only time that you will ever smoke again is if you really want to look older. Of course today 19 doubt that you want to look older than you are, do you? C: No. T: We both can agree then that you will never smoke again unless want to look older. Beware Now that you are ready to be a nonsmoker once and for all, BEWARE. Beware, and do not allow any other person, male or female, family member, friend, co-worker, neighbor, or associate, to try and directly or indirectly push you back into the smoking habit. Beware, and do not allow any situations, circumstances, or set of events, whether they would be calm, tranquil, and pleasant, or nervous, stressful, or rushed, to try and trick you back into this smoking habit again. Most important of all. BEWARE, and do not allow any thoughts, either your thoughts or some one else’s thoughts, from the past, present or ever to arrive in your future, try to trick, or manipulate you back into this silly old smoking habit again. You will now beware of any, and all possible situations, statements, circumstances, events, thoughts, and individuals that could possibly push you back into smoking. You will never need to smoke again. You are now in control of your own life, and behaviors. More Related Stop Smoking Tips: Free Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Best Way To Quit Smoking How To Stop Smoking Applying Logic To Quitting Smoking Stop Smoking Therapy Corner Overcoming Nicotine Addiction © 2009 – 2010, Stop Smoking Tip . All rights reserved. No republishing allowed. If referencing, please provide link to this post. Please link to this page You can not copy copyrighted content, but if you enjoyed this article, feel free to grab the code below and add it to your site. This will allow your visitors to read this article as well. <a href="http://www.stopsmokingtip.us/stop-smoking-therapy/memories-of-your-first-cigarette-may-help-you-quit-smoking" >Memories Of Your First Cigarette May Help You Quit Smoking</a> Tags: free stop smoking hypnosis , how to quit smoking , how to stop smoking cigarettes , hypnosis for smoking cessation , hypnotherapy quit smoking , hypnotherapy to quit smoking , methods to stop smoking , quit smoking advice , quit smoking benefits , quit smoking by hypnosis , quit smoking hypnotherapy , quit smoking now , quit smoking tip , Smoking Cessation , smoking cessation hypnosis , stop smoking aids , Stop Smoking Hypnosis , stop smoking methods , stop smoking tip , why to quit smoking Comments are closed. Are You Ready To Quit Smoking? Are You Ready To Quit Smoking Now? Take Our Quiz To Find Out Our Survey Share a Tip Free Hypnosis MP3 Two FREE Full Length Hypnosis Sessions Quit Smoking With No Withdrawal FREE Offer Of Miracet Read our Review Quit Smoking Without Nicotine Withdrawal . Visit Our Stop Smoking Therapy Corner Your Beautiful Mind Will Help You Quit Smoking You Are Already A Non-Smoker – 85 Percent Of The Time Word Of Honor: Stop Smoking Now Quitting Smoking: Let’s Re-Visit Your First Cigarette Today Is The Day To Quit Smoking Resources Stop Smoking Tip Home Page Sitemap Smoking Bans RSS Feeds How To Stop Smoking Stop Smoking With Hypnosis How I Stopped Smoking With Hypnosis – Now Get The Same Full Length Hypnosis Session Free Celebrity Smokers Quit the Smart Way: With Stop-Smoking Hypnosis Hypnosis to Quit Smoking: Dealing with the Mental Side of Addiction Stop Smoking With Hypnosis: Change Your Mind, Literally Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy: An “Alternative” Treatment that Works Categories Quit Smoking Aids Smoking Buzz Stop Smoking Hypnosis Stop Smoking Tips Therapy Corner Archives March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 Recent Searches natural stop smoking aids smokers electronic cigarette does electric cigarettes harm you free stop smoking products e cig stop smoking products User Login User Password Remember me Lost your password Home | RSS Feeds | Link To Us | Contact Us | About Us | Sitemap | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Copyright © 2012 Stop Smoking Tip . All Rights Reserved. SST, 5758 Geary Blvd Ste. 332, San Francisco, CA 94121 1-888-779-1078, info@stopsmokingtip.us Rss Feed Tweeter button Facebook button Myspace button Lin