
Honey: It’s such a good wound-healer that surgeons are urged to use it | What Doctors Don't Tell You Web Toolbar by Wibiya Login or Register here Email Password WELCOME Email Account settings Members Area Log out HOME NEWS HEALTH ADVICE FORUMS BLOGS PRACTITIONER SEARCH ABOUT WDDTY SHOP Need a second opinion you can trust? Start your search here » Home » News Honey: It’s such a good wound-healer that surgeons are urged to use it email to friend Printer friendly 25 October 2007 Surgeons are being urged to apply honey to the patient’s wounds after surgery.  A new study suggests that it is one of the most effective methods for fast wound-healing, and may be every bit as good as antibiotics. Wounds that are treated with honey regularly – either hourly or daily, depending on the severity of the wound – usually become sterile within three to 10 days.  It’s especially effective for treating wounds that become infected or fail to close or heal.  Researchers at the North West Wales NHS Trust in Bangor say it can also help heal wounds left by laparoscopic, or ‘keyhole’, surgery to remove cancers. Honey came out top of a review of 18 studies that looked at different wound-healing therapies, including maggots.  Some of the papers were prepared more than 60 years ago, around the time when research into honey stopped with the introduction of antibiotics. Lead researcher Dr Fasal Rauf Khan commented: “It can be used to sterilise infected wounds, speed up healing and impede tumours, particularly in keyhole surgery.” (Source: International Journal of Clinical Practice, 2007; 61: 1705-7). Click here to receive health news by email. Related WDDTY Content Hernia: Keyhole surgery is no better than a standard op Laparoscopic – or keyhole - surgery is the new, less invasive method that allows the patient to leave the hospital after just a few days. Keyhole surgery - The doctor as video games player Surgeons are rushing in to try their hand at minimally invasive operations without proper training or understanding of when they are appropriate. ... HRT: It’s every bit as dangerous as we’ve been told, especially if you’re older Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is every bit as dangerous as studies from a few years back suggested, a new study has just confirmed.  But it’s the... Keyhole surgery Recently, minimally invasive, or keyhole, surgery (laparoscopy see ... ... Case study: Risks of Keyhole surgery In August 1991 I underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy (removal of the gall bladder via keyhole surgery) and shortly afterward experienced pain on... Gallbladder cancer linked to keyhole surgery Keyhole surgery can trigger gallbladder cancer or cause it to recur, researchers have found. The procedure, known as laparoscopic cholecystectomy, whi... What our readers and members say about WDDTY Two months ago I could barely walk more than 50 yards or stand in the queue at the Post Office.  Chronic lower back pain was the problem...now, thanks to you, I ramble and cycle miles and miles without pain. - R.P., Norwich I was told I had glaucoma and was going blind. I developed a diet and supplement programme based on your information, and two months later I had my eyes examined again, and there was no sign of glaucoma any more. - G.R., Edinburgh My husband was given three months to live two years ago due to prostate cancer.  By reading the information you provide, I contacted the right people and he started an alternative therapy. It succeeded and he was later told that he was clear of cancer. Thank you for being you. - M.R., Dyfed Instead of suffering from asthma, unwillingly forced into the last-ditch resort of taking steroids in order to have  any sort of livable life, I am virtually free of it and, to boot, have lost a surplus two stone.  This is all attributable to your informative publications. - M.B., Cornwall Recently my mother-in-law was diagnosed with breast cancer. I cannot tell you how encouraging your newsletter was to the whole family...she is faring well and confident she is making the right decisions thanks to your timely advice. - J.B., Jersey Several years ago I was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis...a chance discussion put me on the track of your publication, which linked MS-type symptoms with the Pill I’d been taking.  Had I listened to my GP and neurologist I would probably be in a wheelchair.  Thank you for saving my life. - D.J., Norfolk Terms and Conditions | Advertise | About us | Contact us | No drug company funding on this site | Frequently asked 