Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

rheumatory arthritis How to Beat Arthritis! Get our FREE monthly Ezine and get your life back! Enter your E-mail Address Enter your First Name (optional) Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. I promise to use it only to send you Insider Arthritis Tips. Rheumatory arthritis by Nathan Wei, MD, FACP, FACR Nathan Wei is a nationally known board-certified rheumatologist and author of the Second Opinion Arthritis Treatment Kit.  It's available exclusively at this website... not available in stores. Click here: Second Opinion Arthritis Treatment Kit This is the term some people use to describe “rheumatoid arthritis”.  Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is the most common inflammatory form of arthritis and affects roughly 1 per cent of the population. It is more common in women than men. While it affects people of all ages it is more common in the 30- 50 year age group and also there is a secondary peak in the 60-70 age group. RA is an autoimmune disease in which the immune system begins to attack multiple organ systems, the most visible of which are the joints.  Typically the lining of the joint, which is called the synovium” becomes infiltrated with inflammatory cells.  These cells consist of neutrophils, macrophages, plasma cells, dendritic cells, and lymphocytes.    There is a complex interaction where these cells are prompted to produce inflammatory cytokines.  These cytokines perpetuate and magnify inflammatory and destructive changes. Because it is a systemic disease, patients may have other organ systems besides the joints become involved.  The eyes and lungs are two of the more common areas that may be affected. Typically, a patient with RA will complain of generalized morning stiffness lasting more than an hour.  They will have joint pain and swelling.  On examination, mostly small joints early on and small as well as large joints later on will be swollen and tender. Laboratory testing will show elevation of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein, blood tests that measure the amount of inflammation in the body. The patient may also be anemic. The rheumatoid factor- another blood test- is positive in about 80% of patients. Magnetic resonance imaging will show evidence of inflammation of the synovium and possibly erosions. Sometimes arthroscopy will be done (arthroscopy involves using a small telescope to look inside a joint).  Arthroscopy also allows the physician to obtain biopsies. Early and aggressive treatment is mandatory.  Evidence exist showing that irreversible damage takes place in the first year of disease. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis will consist of a combination of anti-inflammatory medicines as well as disease-modifying drugs. Anti-inflammatory drugs can either be steroids like prednisone or non-steroidal drugs like ibuprofen, and more recently COX 2 drugs like Celebrex. Disease modifying drugs help slow progression.  Examples include methotrexate, azathioprine (Imuran), cyclosporine (Sandimmune), leflunomide (Arava), hydroxyxhloroquine (Plaquenil), and sulfasalazine (Azuulfidine). Biologic therapies such as etanercept (Enbrel), adalimumab (Humira), anakinra (Kineret), and infliximab (Remicade) also are used to effect remission. Get more information about rheumatoid arthritis as well as... •	Insider arthritis tips that help you erase the pain and fatigue of rheumatoid arthritis almost overnight! •	Devastating ammunition against low back pain... discover 9 secrets! •	Ignored remedies that eliminate fibromyalgia symptoms quickly! •	Obsolete treatments for knee osteoarthritis that still are used... and may still work for you! •	The stiff penalties you face if you ignore this type of hip pain... •	7 easy-to-implement neck pain remedies that work like a charm! •	And much more... Click here Second Opinion Arthritis Treatment Kit Return to arthritis home page. Copyright (c) 2004 Arthritis-Treatment-and-Relief.com - All Rights Reserved How to Beat Arthritis! Get our FREE monthly Ezine and get your life back! Enter your E-mail Address Enter your First Name (optional) Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure. 