Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Community-Associated MRSA (July 2009) Townsend Letter for Doctors & Patients From the Townsend Letter July 2009 Order this issue! Anti-Aging Medicine Community-Associated MRSA: Anti-Aging Approaches for a  Superbug Survival Strategy by Ronald Klatz, MD, DO, and Robert Goldman, MD, PhD, DO, FAASP WorldHealth.net MRSA,  or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus  aureus, is a bacterium that belongs to the  large group of bacteria known as Staphylococci, often referred to as staph. Interestingly, while an estimated 25% to  30% of people have staph within the nose, it normally does not cause an  infection. While only 1% of the population has MRSA, it can be responsible for  serious infections, because the bacterium is resistant to numerous antibiotics,  including methicillin and penicillin. Infections  with MRSA most frequently strike hospitals and other institutional health-care  settings, such as nursing homes, where they tend to prey on the  immunocompromised. In health-care settings, MRSA is a frequent cause of  surgical wound infections, urinary tract infections, bloodstream infections  (sepsis), and pneumonia. However,  MRSA outbreaks are becoming increasingly common in the community setting. The  US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that a prospective  study in 2003 found that 12% of clinical MRSA infections are now  "community-associated" – abbreviated as CA-MRSA. As the name implies, CA-MRSA  infections occur in people who have not been hospitalized nor had a medical  procedure performed in the past year, and who do not have immune deficiency.  CA-MRSA infections are usually skin infections, such as abscesses, boils, and  other pus-filled lesions in otherwise healthy people. Most  staph skin infections, including MRSA, appear as a bump or infected area on the  skin that may be red, swollen, painful, warm to the touch, full of pus or other  drainage, or accompanied by a fever. Because of the vagary of these symptoms,  the CDC reports that Americans visit the doctor approximately 12 million times  each year to get checked for suspected staph or MRSA skin infection. MRSA  is typically transmitted from people with active infections. Four simple steps  can prevent and reduce the spread of MRSA. 1. Know the signs of MRSA and get it treated early. As  with all regular staph infections, recognizing the signs and receiving  treatment for MRSA skin infection in the early stages reduces the chances of  its becoming severe. You can get MRSA through direct contact with an infected  person or by sharing personal items that have touched infected skin. Treatment  may include having a health-care professional drain the infection. People  should not attempt to drain the infection themselves, as doing so could worsen  or spread it to others. 2. Keep cuts and scrapes clean and covered. If  you or someone in your family experiences these signs and symptoms, cover the  area with a bandage and contact your health-care professional. It is especially  important to contact your health-care professional if symptoms of an MRSA skin  infection are accompanied by a fever. 3. Encourage good hygiene. Good  hygiene is the most effective way to prevent MRSA infections and the recurrence  of treated lesions. Keep your hands clean by washing thoroughly with soap and  water or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. As noted above, keep cuts and  scrapes clean and covered with a bandage until healed. 4. Discourage sharing of personal items, sources from which MRSA  can spread from person to person. Avoid  contact with other people's wounds or bandages. Avoid sharing personal items  such as towels or razors. MRSA  is now a global health concern. It is highly virulent and can cause a large  number of serious illnesses that do not respond well to current medical  treatment. MRSA has adapted in ways that allow it to resist a number of  antibiotics. This adaptation, or evolution, has been accomplished by mutation  of the genetic material contained in S.  aureus. MRSA was first noted in 1961, about two  years after methicillin was initially used to treat S. aureus and other infectious  bacteria. Thus, we turn our attention to two natural substances that may help  win the war against the MRSA superbug. Honey Used as a skin treatment, honey prevents  infection and speeds healing by starving existing bacteria and protecting the  skin from infection by new bacteria. Researchers have shown that the high sugar  content of honey actually slows bacterial growth, while its thick, syrupy  texture acts as a seal over wounds, forming a natural barrier against any  potential bacterial invaders. Furthermore, in its undiluted form, contains  intense concentrations of substances that can kill many types of  antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In  seven consecutive patients whose wounds were either infected or colonized with  MRSA, antiseptics and antibiotics had failed to eradicate the clinical signs of  infection. A clinical team from University of Bonn (Germany) instead utilized  honey to achieve full healing. Blaser G, Santos K, Bode U, Vetter H,  Simon A. Effect of medical honey on wounds colonised or infected with MRSA. J Wound Care. 2007  Sep;16(8):325–328. A  team of researchers from Belfast City Hospital (Ireland) found that three types  of honey produced from bees in Northern Ireland and one commercial French honey  eradicated a culture of CA-MRSA to none detectable within 24 hours of  co-culturing with all four types. Interestingly, inoculated honey remained  positive for CA-MRSA until 72 hours postinoculation, after which point no  culturable organisms could be detected. Concludes the team: "This study  demonstrated that, in vitro, these natural products had an antimicrobial  activity against the CA-MRSA organisms." Maeda Y, Loughrey A, Earle JA, et al.  Antibacterial activity of honey against community-associated  methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA). Complement Ther Clin Pract. 2008  May;14(2):77–82. Epub 2008 Mar 4. A  group from Oslo University Hospital (Norway) incubated various strains of  bacteria, including MRSA, and then applied honey to the bacteria growths.  Norwegian Forest Honey was found to be bactericidal against all the strains of  bacteria. The researchers urge: "Reintroduction of honey as a conventional  wound treatment may help improve individual wound care, prevent invasive  infections, eliminate colonization, interrupt outbreaks and thereby preserve  current antibiotic stocks." Merckoll P, Jonassen TO, Vad ME, Jeansson  SL, Melby KK. Bacteria, biofilm and honey: A study of the effects of honey on  ‘planktonic' and biofilm-embedded chronic wound bacteria. Scand J Infect Dis. 41(5):341–347. Epub 2009 Mar 23. Garlic A  group from the University of East London (UK) studied the effect of allicin,  the main antibacterial agent isolated from garlic, on 30 clinical isolates of  MRSA, including strains of CA-MRSA. Allicin was able to inhibit all MRSA  strains, and the garlic compound demonstrated bactericidal properties. Cutler RR, Wilson P. Antibacterial  activity of a new, stable, aqueous extract of allicin against  methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Br  J Biomed Sci. 2004;61(2):71–74. Using  a laboratory model mimicking the MRSA infection, researchers from the Chung  Shan Medical University Hospital (Taiwan) found that sulfur compounds present  in garlic significantly decreased MRSA viability in the kidney, and decreased  both interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha – markers  of inflammation. The team states: "These data suggest that [sulfur compounds in  garlic] could provide multiple protective functions against MRSA infection." Tsao SM, Liu WH, Yin MC. Two diallyl  sulphides derived from garlic inhibit meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus  aureus infection in diabetic mice. J  Med Microbiol. 2007 Jun;56(Pt 6):803–808. Conclusion Your  Superbug Survival Strategy need not rely on drugs or other potentially toxic  agents. Instead of insisting on antibiotics when you visit your doctor for an  infection, opt for good hygiene and proven natural strategies. In the long run,  doing so may not only help you recover from a bout with a bug faster, but may  very well boost your overall healthspan and lifespan also. Find out how you can uncover the secrets  of a healthy, vital, productive lifespan by using the physician directory  online at Worldhealth.net , the official educational website of the American  Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine (A4M). Log on today to www.worldhealth.net , the  leading Internet portal sharing the very latest knowledge in aging intervention  as embraced by the A4M's 22,000-plus physician, scientist, and health  practitioner members from 105 nations worldwide. While at Worldhealth.net , be  sure to sign up for the free Anti-Aging News Journal , delivered weekly to your  computer desktop. Consult your doctor before using any of the
    treatments found within this site. Subscriptions
      are available for
    Townsend Letter, the Examiner of Alternative Medicine magazine, which is
      published 10 times each year. Search our pre-2001
      archives for further information. Older issues of the printed magazine
      are also indexed for your convenience. 1983-2001
          indices ; recent indices Once you find the magazines you'd like to order, please use our
      convenient form , e-mail subscriptions@townsendletter.com ,
      or call 360.385.6021 (PST). Who are we? | New
      articles | Featured topics | Tables of contents | Subscriptions | Contact
us | Links | Classifieds | Advertise | Alternative
Medicine Conference Calendar | Search site | Archives | EDTA
Chelation Therapy | Home © 1983-2009 Townsend Letter for Doctors 
        & Patients All rights re