
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 06:24:43 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.hqbk.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

HQBK Blog Home | About HealthQuest | Professional Staff | Specials/Events | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Blogs Query HQBK Blog Feb 10 Neck Pain Treatment Filed under: Neck Pain Treatment ; Many jobs in the contemporary workplace require you to sit in front of a computer all day long. It’s no wonder that many people end up with severe neck pain. Besides fatigue and postural stress, neck pain can even be due to exposure to drafts of cold air. Cold ice massages, cervical collars and correction of your pillow position can help to reduce the pain if it is not too severe. But if the problem persists, you should consider going in for neck pain treatment at a specialized multi-specialty healthcare center. A pain management clinic can offer specialized chiropractic care to relieve your pain. Persistent or recurring pain is the result of deterioration of disc cartilage or arthritis. Ruptured and degenerated discs pinch the sensitive spinal nerves causing neck pain that may radiate into the shoulder, through the arm and to the fingers. Chiropractors at a pain management center can relieve your neck pain using gentle massages to correct the misaligned vertebrae. Physical therapy , simple exercises, orthopedics and rehabilitation, prescription medications, and cervical epidural injections are some of the other effective neck pain treatment therapies that these centers offer.  In fact, consultation at an early stage can help you avoid surgery. Make sure that the center you consult has a multi-pronged approach as this is necessary for most types of pain management . Besides a thorough physical to make the right diagnosis, an established healthcare center would also ensure personalized neck pain treatment solutions right up to recovery.  Request details on cost and find out if you are eligible for insurance coverage. Tweet Tags: chronic neck pain , neck pain relief , neck pain treatment , pain management brooklyn , pain management clinic No Comments . Jan 21 Physical Therapy Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Filed under: Physical Therapy ; The narrowing of the spinal canal creates pressure on the nerves, and this results in spinal stenosis. This is a severe and complicated problem, which might lead to pain and discomfort. In order to get relief from the pain, physical therapy is the ideal solution ensuring faster and longer lasting results. There might be different types of spinal stenosis such as those caused by osteoarthritis, injury or aging. There are a number of physical therapy exercises that can be performed at this stage to obtain relief from the symptoms of spinal stenosis. It not only reduces pain, but also allows the patient to gradually return back to normal activities. Common Physical Therapy Exercises If you are suffering from spinal stenosis , you should keep in mind that the most important thing for you to do in order to get relief from the pain is to approach a reliable physical therapy center, and talk to an expert. Your condition will be thoroughly examined, before the physical therapist recommends any kind of physical therapy. It is on the basis of the symptoms and diagnosis that the ideal exercises are determined. Physical therapy exercises for spinal stenosis include those for strengthening of the lower limbs, for stabilization of the lower back, stretching exercises that can reduce stress on joints, and aquatic exercises. Treatment of Severe Conditions In fact, the exercises for physical therapy are largely determined on the basis of the severity of the symptoms. Some of the common exercises might include: Flexing your spine- In this case, you stretch the muscles of the lower back. This in turn, might increase the passageway of the nerves and reduce the pain. Knees to chest- This exercise stretches your hip and lower back muscles, and relieves the pressure on the spinal nerves. Rotating the trunk- This is also another important exercise in physical therapy that would increase the flexibility in your hips and lower back. Benefits of Physical Therapy Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Physical therapy exercises help increase the blood flow to the spine, supplying the much needed oxygen and nutrients while removing any toxic metabolites. These exercises would help improve and maintain flexibility, and at the same time strengthen the muscles around the spine. With the muscles strengthened, pressure on the bones and other static structures in the back is relieved. Physical therapy exercises can also help you maintain a healthy weight, preventing back pain . Tweet Tags: physical therapy brooklyn , physical therapy center , physical therapy exercises , physical therapy nyc , spinal stenosis No Comments . Jan 14 Does Physical Therapy Exercises Help Relieve Lower Back Pain? Filed under: Back Pain Treatment , Physical Therapy ; Back pain is a condition that can be debilitating, disrupting your routine functioning. A long duration of back pain can be treated with the help of physical therapy. In fact, there are many specialists that recommend back exercises and therapies that can lead to effective and positive results. Physical therapy treatment encourages the production of your body’s natural pain-relieving chemicals, thereby assisting the body to heal itself. There are several reasons as to why back pain might occur, and only with a thorough diagnosis of the symptoms, the conditions can be recognized, and proper treatment provided. Physical therapy exercises for back pain provide relief and improve function. Your therapist will also educate you on ways of preventing the recurrence of back pain. Back Pain Exercises – Active Physical Therapy Treatment There are different forms of physical therapy recommended for patients with lower back pain, based on the severity of the condition. The ultimate goal of these therapies is to provide the much desired relief from lower back pain . When a person approaches a physical therapy center, the therapist examines his condition, and accordingly recommends the ideal physical therapy treatment. Depending on the level of pain, the exercises would differ. There are, in fact, several back strengthening exercises recommended by experts. McKenzie exercises and dynamic lumbar stabilization are two important exercises. Apart from that, often a balanced combination of stretching, strengthening, and low impact aerobic exercises can also prove to be effective physical therapy programs. Those suffering from chronic low back pain will surely benefit from physical therapy exercises under the guidance of a trained professional. These exercises are aimed at helping the patient keep the spine in neutral positions when performing routine activities. The physical therapist would instruct you on avoiding activities that exert excessive stress on the lower back. Gain Relief from Chronic Back Pain Physical therapy exercises help provide speedy relief from chronic back pain . It improves flexibility, strengthens muscles, and builds endurance. These therapeutic exercises taken regularly will help you move about and engage in your normal physical activities without pain. However, it is important to seek treatment from a reputable pain management center offering the services of trained and experienced physical therapists. You will benefit from personalized service and speedy relief from lower back pain. Your physical therapist will ensure that you are prescribed the right exercises suitable for your condition. If necessary, the therapist will modify the exercise if necessary. If you are given home exercises, it is important that you tell your therapist at your next appointment how your body has responded to the treatment. Proper communication between patients and their physical therapists is necessary, if the exercises prescribed are to be effective. Tweet Tags: brooklyn physical therapy services , lower back pain , physical therapy center , physical therapy exercises , physical therapy nyc No Comments . Jan 06 How Rehabilitation Services Can Reduce Disability Filed under: Rehabilitation Services ; Rehabilitation services can reduce disability and improve your quality of life. Treatments that may be adopted for your purpose include cold and hot applications, exercise programs, electrotherapy and massages. In addition, low tech and hi-tech equipment may be used. To get maximum benefit, it is important that you go to a rehabilitation center known for providing excellent treatment. Rehabilitation Programs – Benefits for the Disabled and Injured Rehabilitation services are very beneficial for the elderly, people who have had a fall, those who are trying to recover after surgery, have occupational or sports injury or disabling pain in the back, shoulder or other part of the body. Here are some of the benefits that such programs provide: Pain management is possible with modalities such as cold/hot therapy, electrical stimulation, traction and ultrasound Improvement in range of motion Improvement in functionality Prevention of further injury or disability Help the patient regain independence Help the patient relearn skills Help the patient find an alternative way to perform a task that he did before Stretching helps to enhance flexibility and reduce stress on joints Exercises enhance coordination, endurance and balance and improve strength in the muscles Recuperation Following Surgery of the Knee Consider physical therapy rehabilitation after knee surgery. In addition to the benefits mentioned above, rehabilitation services help to normalize gait, improve balance, reduce swelling and enable a return to regular play (in the case of athletes).  A proper gait pattern means the ability of the patient to walk in a proper manner. If your doctor is satisfied that you are making sufficient progress from treatment at the rehabilitation center, he may give you instructions to perform recuperative exercises at home. In the case of the knee, some exercises that may be recommended include knee flexion and quads sets. Finding the Right Care Provider To decide on a treatment plan for your particular disability, your doctor may ask you to get an X-ray or other diagnostic tests. As mentioned earlier, you should find yourself a good specialist or clinic to ensure that the rehabilitation services can indeed reduce your disability. Here are some suggestions: The center should be equipped to provide the kind of medical rehabilitation that you would require The center should have a good reputation for performing these services A good number of patients should have been able to return home following recuperative care at the treatment center. Tweet Tags: pain management , physical therapy rehabilitation , rehabilitation center , rehabilitation programs , rehabilitation services No Comments . Dec 31 When Do People Need Physical Therapy? Filed under: Physical Therapy ; Physical therapy helps to manage pain and improve function whether you have an injury or sprain or more complex neurological disorders. Physical therapy programs include patient education regarding prevention of further injury and disability. Physical therapists provide strength and flexibility training, and help patients in correcting and improving their posture, movement/range of motion. Physical therapy is a treatment welcomed by most people, largely on account of its non-invasive nature. Conditions Which Would Benefit from Physical Therapy Knee problems Shoulder/arm conditions Back conditions Neck conditions Hip fracture Sprains/muscle strains Ankle/foot problems Post-surgical rehabilitation Rehabilitation after injury Stroke Physical Therapy after Surgery In many cases, physical therapy exercises are recommended by doctors after an operation. When the joint is replaced after an injury or fracture, the damaged limb can be healed and made functional with the help of this particular therapy. In particular, after a knee surgery, a specified therapy might be conducted with three main primary objectives. First, training is provided so that the joint can be made strong. Second, the motion is restored. Physical therapy removes the stiffness. Third, the knee is protected from further injury. In general, people who are suffering from sports injuries, musculoskeletal disorders, joint and muscle pain, spinal problems, and others may be referred for different exercises, which should be performed strictly under an expert. It is essential to know the right way of doing these exercises. Physical Therapy for Different Kinds of Pain People with different kinds of pain such as neck pain , back pain , arthritis, or stenosis can go to a reputable physical therapy center to benefit from customized treatment. Physical therapy programs differ with each patient, and proper healing demands complete compliance with the therapist’s instructions; healing requires time and this too is different with each individual. Physical therapy treatment involves specific stretches and exercises that will enable smooth recovery. Stretching exercises reduce stiffness of the muscles and joints while improving your range of motion, and flexibility. Exercises also help to restore strength. Physical therapists utilize a variety of exercise equipment for treatment purposes. Massage therapy is also utilized when providing physical therapy treatment. This helps immensely in bringing back the flexibility to the muscles. Follow Your Physical Therapist’s Instructions Closely Physical therapy is effective for treating injured bones, joints, muscles and a number of neurological conditions. However, it is important that you follow your physical therapist’s instructions closely. The physical therapist would closely study your progress and modify the exercise programs if required. Tweet Tags: physical therapy brooklyn , physical therapy center , physical therapy nyc , physical therapy programs No Comments . Dec 22 Don’t Let Your Life Go up in Smoke Filed under: Smoking Cessation ; According to the National Health Interview Survey, 2010, up to 43,000 Americans die of smoking or of exposure to secondhand tobacco smoke each year. A Smoking Cessation Program to Quit Smoking for Good This New Year, make the resolution to quit smoking – for good. That’s easier said than done, you say.  In fact, millions of people make this resolution every year, only to end up back smoking again. The fact of the matter is that there is no safe level. Each puff you take is deadly. It damages your lungs, your blood vessels, and affects all the cells in your body. You’ve tried everything, but you just can’t stop smoking. That’s there are over 4000 chemicals in each cigarette that keeps you addicted even though you want to quit. So what’s the way out? Enroll in a smoking cessation program – not just any program, but one run by an established healthcare center and which offers personalized auriculotherapy treatment. Auriculotherapy is acupuncture for the ear. It involves stimulating certain reflex points with electrical impulses to release endorphins that will reduce your nicotine addiction. Just a single auriculotherapy session can have a dramatic effect. The treatment has no side effects and can help you stop taking that deadly puff. It’s Never Too Late! The good news is that it’s never too late – you can quit smoking at any age. The sooner you quit, the sooner your body can begin the healing process. So make that resolution today – don’t let your life go up in smoke. Tweet Tags: adult smoking cessation , auricular therapy , auriculotherapy treatment , smoking cessation brooklyn , smoking cessation nyc , smoking cessation programs new york city No Comments . Dec 17 What Are the Treatment Options for Scoliosis? Filed under: Scoliosis ; The spinal cord plays an essential function in our body, carrying and supporting the entire weight of the body. Scoliosis, characterized by abnormal curvature of the spine, can affect adults, teenagers and children. This condition results in pain, and therefore, scoliosis pain managementbecomes essential. Scoliosis pain can be mild or severe, and early diagnosis of the condition is important to prevent worsening of the spinal curvature. Different Treatment Options Since this is a very painful condition, i t is essential to find out the right scoliosis treatment . Your doctor performs a proper examination including observation and inspection followed by a proper diagnosis. There are reliable pain management centers that offer the services of efficient and experienced doctors to treat scoliosis. Pain treatment provided for patients diagnosed with degenerative scoliosis or lumbar scoliosis includes: Spinal adjustments Physical therapy Exercise TENS (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) Electrical stimulation Administration of muscle relaxants Children and adolescents with a spinal curve of 25 to 40 degrees may be prescribed braces. This will prevent the spinal curve from getting worse as they grow. There are many kinds of braces that are designed according to individual requirements. The braces have padding and straps that place the required resistance on your spinal curve. Braces are not usually recommended for adults. Usually pain management doctors utilize a proven combination of treatment methods to help achieve reduction in spine curvature. Customized scoliosis treatment programs are provided for each patient according to their particular condition. The type of treatment provided would vary with: Your age How much more you are likely to grow (in the case of children) The degree of the curve Benefits of Scoliosis Treatment Pain management specialists at reliable healthcare centers ensure that patients receive the following benefits from scoliosis treatment. Reduction in the spinal curvature Relief from pain and discomfort Increased range of motion and flexibility Scoliosis Pain Management In addition to undergoing proper treatment, scoliosis patients should take care to remain as active as possible as well as maintain an ideal weight. Scoliosis pain can be aided by strengthening the abdominal and paraspinal musculature. There are exercises that can strengthen weak muscles, ligaments and tendons and stabilize the spine.  If you are in a job that requires you to sit for a long time, support your lower back with a pillow or cushion. Take care not to strain your back when lifting objects, and also take all precautions when climbing staircases and stepladders. Tweet Tags: degenerative scoliosis , lumbar scoliosis , pain management , scoliosis pain management , scoliosis physical therapy , scoliosis treatment brooklyn , scoliosis treatment new york No Comments . Dec 09 How to Treat Sciatica Filed under: Chiropractic Treatment , Sciatica ; Sciatica or sciatica pain is a condition where the individual could experience weakness, a tingling sensation or numbness starting from the lower back and progressing to the back of the leg where the sciatic nerve is located. The pain is a result of compression or irritation of any of the five spinal nerve roots that make up the sciatic nerve. Pain or any of the above sensations are felt in the buttocks, lower back, various portions of the leg, and the foot. Some could experience a mere tingling or pricking sensation while others could even find it difficult to move the leg. The symptoms are generally restricted to one part of the body and so it’s rare for the individual to feel these symptoms on both legs. Cold weather could also exacerbate the sciatica pain . What Causes Sciatica? The causes for sciatica could be spinal issues such as spinal stenosis or spinal disc herniation, or even piriformis syndrome. Treatment for sciatica pain therefore depends on the particular condition causing it. The probability for contracting sciatica is normally greater for middle aged individuals while it’s particularly rare in individuals below 20. Normally, sciatic nerve pain doesn’t result from acute trauma but more commonly develops progressively over time. Does Treatment for Sciatica Involve Surgery? Often sciatica does not require surgery, and most people begin to experience relief within weeks or a few months of non-surgical treatment. There are cases when the pain could seriously affect movement. Progressive weakness in the leg or other neurological conditions resulting in distress to internal organs can cause bladder or bowel dysfunction demand more serious treatment. For this, immediate medical attention and surgical intervention could be needed. Kinds of Non-surgical Treatment Non-surgical sciatica treatment consists of regular exercise as well as application of ice and heat packs in the case of acute pain. Sciatic pain relief medication consists of prescription drugs as well as over-the-counter medication and may include oral steroids and anti-inflammatory non-steroidal drugs. These drugs help in reducing inflammation that is one of the contributors to sciatica pain. Epidural Injection More invasive treatment for sciatica consists of an epidural injection where steroids are injected into the area experiencing pain around the sciatic nerve. This sciatica pain relief could last from a week to a year, depending on the particular condition of the individual. Epidural injection is really effective for acute pain. Depending on the underlying cause, other treatment options for sciatica include massage therapy, chiropractic treatment and acupuncture. A reliable healthcare and physical therapy facility can offer the best choice of sciatica treatment cost-effectively. The experts here know how to treat sciatica in the most effective manner. Tweet Tags: chiropractic treatment , sciatica pain , sciatica pain relief , sciatica treatment brooklyn , sciatica treatments , treatment for sciatica No Comments . Dec 03 Can Physical Therapy Help Arthritis? Filed under: Physical Therapy ; There are many people who suffer from arthritis in different forms. It is essential to treat the problems of arthritis in a timely manner, prior to the body becoming less functional. There are different treatments that can give relief from the problems of arthritis, but physical therapy is one of the best options. There are many arthritic patients who are prescribed this treatment procedure, because it has proven highly effective in most of the cases. Addressing the Symptoms In reliable pain management centers , doctors focus on providing relief to the symptoms of arthritis. Physical therapy is one such procedure which is beneficial to the sufferers of arthritis. When a person is diagnosed with acute arthritis, the physician at the physical therapy center can well assess the condition of the patient, and recommend the exercises and programs that would work ideally in each case. Working out the Stiffness When a person is suffering from stiffness in the joints and muscles, it is recognized to be a sign of arthritis. In such a case, physical therapy is recommended to the patient. A well trained physical therapist can teach the sufferer to work out well with the stiffness of the muscle, taking care that the joints are not damaged further. Physical therapy modalities that help patients return to a normal, active lifestyle include: Massage and Myofascial Release Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) Ice or heat to eliminate muscle spasm and inflammation Ultrasound to treat soft tissue injuries Traction Rehabilitation Injury prevention education Getting Back to Normal Activities The main goal of physical therapy programs is to help the arthritis patients restore function, so that they can perform routine activities, without much trouble. The muscles surrounding the joints in arthritis are mostly affected, and the treatment focuses on building up the strength of the muscles and stabilizing the weakened joints. In fact, improving the mobility and restoring normal functioning of different body parts is the main goal of physical therapy , and the therapists make the best effort to help the person get back to a normal lifestyle. Different Benefits The joints and muscles can break their stiffness, and start functioning normally Stability can be achieved Apart from arthritis, other ailments connected with joints and muscles can also be addressed through physical therapy. The exercises and programs recommended by the physical therapist give the patient the much needed relief from pain and instability. Tweet Tags: physical therapy brownsville , physical therapy center , physical therapy programs No Comments . Nov 23 How Disc Pain Is Treated Filed under: Disc Pain Treatment ; Disc pain is usually caused by spinal disc herniation, spinal stenosis or muscle strain. Discogenic back pain is also a common form of back pain which is caused by wear and tear of the disc arising with increasing age and causing disc degeneration. Sciatica pain is caused when the liquid from within the center of a disc in the spinal cord herniates outside into the spinal canal and compresses a nerve root. Disc pain treatment varies according to the cause, but surgical treatment is not the only option. Non-surgical methods such as physical therapy, massaging, chiropractic care and administering of anti-inflammatory drugs can help to diminish the pain. Anti-inflammatory Drugs for Disc Pain Treatment Anti-inflammatory medications, also called NSAIDs (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs) tackle inflammations that are the primary cause of disc pain and sciatica pain . Doctors examine patients thoroughly in order to determine whether NSAIDs are safe for them as some are hard on the stomach and must be avoided by patients having stomach ulcers. As simple as it may sound, exercising and physical therapy can also bring about significant benefits by strengthening the muscles of the back and providing better weight distribution all over the spine. High-tech Spinal Decompression Therapy Spinal decompression therapy is an innovative pain management option that is used for disc pain treatment. Spinal decompression is an FDA-approved therapy that reverses nerve impairment, reduces and balances the load on the spine and treats damaged discs. Offered by multidisciplinary healthcare centers, spinal decompression disc pain treatment is administered through a machine that creates traction that facilitates proper spinal positioning. While each spinal decompression treatment session takes up to 25 minutes, multiple sessions may be required for the best results. Effective Chiropractic Care at a Reliable Pain Management Center Chiropractic care is also an effective non-surgical treatment for sciatica as well as disc pain caused by other factors. It evokes the natural healing powers of the body and is without side effects and is more effective.  This hands-on approach ensures better blood circulation, provides a more balanced weight distribution in the spine, and improves the body’s immune system. The other benefits of chiropractic manipulation for effective pain management include: Facilitating general strengthening of the body Improving flexibility Improving blood circulation Reducing response to painful stimuli Reducing stress, muscle spasm, inflammation Preventing injury Improving body’s immunity Improving joint coordination Promoting natural healing Skilled healthcare professionals at a reliable pain management center conduct a comprehensive physical examination of the individual in order to offer the right chiropractic manipulation. These are some of the ways how disc pain is treated. Comprehensive pain management , sciatica treatment and chiropractic care can ensure positive results. Tweet Tags: chiropractic care brooklyn , disc pain treatment , pain management brooklyn , pain treatment brooklyn , sciatica pain , spinal decompression nyc No Comments . « Older Entries Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 August 2008 Recent Posts Neck Pain Treatment Physical Therapy Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Does Physical Therapy Exercises Help Relieve Lower Back Pain? How Rehabilitation Services Can Reduce Disability When Do People Need Physical Therapy? Subscribe RSS Feed Atom Feed Add to Google My Yahoo Twitter Facebook Patient Forms | Medical Consultation | Physical Examination | Chiropractic Manipulation | Rehabilitation Services | Physical Therapy | Neurology | MRI and Diagnostics | Spinal Decompression | Smoking Cessation | Orthopedics | Pain Management | Weight Loss Program | Slip Fall Prevention | Professional Staff | Site Map Website design by Managed Outsource Solutions Medical Consultation Physical Examination Chiropractic Manipulation Rehabilitation Services Physical Therapy MRI & Diagnostics Spinal Decompression Smoking Cessation Orthopedics Pain Managemen