< 20 20-29 30-39 40-50 > 50 Privacy Policy Advertisement Alternative / Complementary Medicine Click button to select audience [ 18 Articles ] 1 2 Articles 1 to 10 Need Help? Acupuncture Treatment For Asthma 0% Insufficient evidence for the effectiveness of acupuncture in treating asthma. Today, many people with asthma are interested in knowing whether acupuncture could help them improve their symptoms. LinkMedica United Kingdom Your comments All Natural 'Yeast Infection' (thrush) Treatment 93% Our specially formulated yeast infection / thrush (candida) treatment is 100% pure and all natural. This is an anti bacterial blend of essential oils proven to eliminate candida. The effectiveness of these oils to treat yeast infections is unsurpassed. Amoils - Healing Natural Oils USA Your comments Very good. From:D. Srinivas Allergies, Food Sensitivities and Alternative Treatment Options 60% Cliff Garner is a holistic medical practitioner In this article he documents a number of alternative treatment options with which you may not be familiar and includes contact information for them all. We do not endorse any particular treatment methods and provide this as educational information only. Clifford S. Garner, Ph.D. Allergy Buyers Club USA Your comments Alternative Therapies for Asthma & Allergies FAQ 100% What is alternative medicine? Why people use alternative medicine? Does health insurance cover alternative medical treatment? What are cautions or considerations for people who use alternative medicine? Are there useful alternative therapies for people who have asthma or allergies? Allergy Buyers Club USA Your comments Applied Kinesiology: Muscle-Testing for 'Allergies' and 'Nutrient Deficiencies' 17% An investigative overview of applied Kinesiology and related tests and their lack of scientific basis. Dr Stephan Barret Quackwatch USA Your comments Asthma And Fish Oil 5% Dietary marine fatty acids (fish oil) do not help control asthma. This article was produced by the Cochrane Airway Group, an international group that is summarising the results of clinical trials. It evaluated the effect of fish oil on respiratory problems and particularly in asthma. LinkMedica United Kingdom Your comments Asthma And Herbal Medicines 13% Herbal medicines have been used to treat asthma symptoms for centuries. Today, their usage is very popular and high numbers of asthmatics use them as part of their treatment. Since alternative medicines are so widely used, it is of interest to doctors and asthmatics to know whether they have any real benefit. LinkMedica United Kingdom Your comments Very very good. From: D. Srinivas Breathing Exercises For Asthma 0% Insufficient evidence that breathing exercises are helpful in the treatment of asthma. Some people with asthma wonder if doing breathing exercises will lessen the symptoms of their disease. To try to answer this question, a group of researchers reviewed the findings of 5 clinical trials that investigated the effects of various breathing exercises on 236 asthma patients of various ages. LinkMedica United Kingdom Your comments Bronchial Asthma and the Atopic Syndrome as a Nutritional Deficiency 0% A paper on bronchial asthma and atopic conditions existing as manifestations of a breakdown in prostaglandin metabolism resultant from a chemical depletion of lipoprotein lipase, the essential deactivating enzyme, or a nutritional deficit of the elemental building blocks required to synthesis the enzyme. This page is very detailed and the author argues that these conditions are as a result of a nutritional deficiency and recommends various natural products and supplements. Alexander Erskine Stark ISO Edinburgh United Kingdom Your comments Childhood Allergies 0% An overview of child allergies. Emergency treatment for allergies. Conventional Treatment Dietary Guidelines Nutritional Supplements Herbal Treatment Homeopathy Acupressure General Recommendations Prevention HealthWorld Online USA Your comments [ 18 Articles ] 1 2 Articles 1 to 10 Need Help? This icon indicates the target audience This grades the article - click to view the article This indicates an organization type - click for its details. Click to vote for this article NB: Clicking on the icon (or stars) causes a new browser window to open up in front of this window. The new window links to the article referenced to the right of the icon. Do NOT click the icon twice - this may result in the new window opening up behind this one. Primarily for: Site Owner: Content Rating: Health Professionals Teens Kids Professional Organization Commercial Organization Professional's Personal Site Layperson's site Layperson Organization Position Statement Excellent Good 