Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture Treatment for Migraines Home Site 

                          map Contacts Acupuncture 

                      Treatment For Migraines Acupuncture Treatment for Migraines Acupuncture is known as a traditional 

                                  Chinese medicine. Migraines are often a result 

                                  of reduced energy and or blood flow causing 

                                  pain to one or both sides of the head. The reduced 

                                  blood flow to the brain causes tension and lack 

                                  of oxygen to the brain. Many migraines start 

                                  as tension headaches, and grow stronger until 

                                  they are full-blown migraines. Acupuncture treats migraines by 

                                  relieving the tension. This is done by maximizing 

                                  the blood flow to the brain and giving the brain 

                                  the oxygen needed. During a 15 to 30 minute 

                                  acupuncture treatment the brain senses normalization 

                                  of blood flow, and as seen in numerous treatments 

                                  the blood vessels will constrict back to their 

                                  normal size, ending the migraine headache. Basically acupuncture approaches 

                                  migraines by reducing vasodilatation, which 

                                  is where the blood vessels from the brain widen 

                                  due to the relaxation of the smooth muscles 

                                  within the vessels wall; since there is now 

                                  more room for blood your blood pressure drops. 

                                  The reduction of the vasodilatation gives the 

                                  brain more blood, which is what the brain needs. The Chinese believe rather than 

                                  feeding the brain drugs to help with the pain 

                                  due to the lack of blood, why not give the brain 

                                  the blood it needs? Not only does it save you 

                                  from putting chemicals into your body, but it 

                                  helps solve the problem and gives the migraine 

                                  patient the relief from the body’s own 

                                  constriction of blood vessels. This approach prevents migraine 

                                  sufferers from having to deal with the side 

                                  effects of prescribed medications and reduces 

                                  chances of reoccurrences of migraines. It is 

                                  said that 6 to 12 treatments will often result 

                                  in years free of migraines. Migraine Care Trying natural remedies for migraines 

                                  can often be helpful and much cheaper than buying 

                                  medication over the counter or going to the 

                                  doctor for medication. Trying stress relievers 

                                  before taking medication may help you to find 

                                  something that is helpful and better for your 

                                  body. Taking hot or cold showers with 

                                  a direct water flow to the area of pain can 

                                  help relax the muscle tension and relieve you 

                                  of the migraine often. If the sound of the running 

                                  water or the pressure of the water flow is too 

                                  intense, soaking in a luke warm or hot bath 

                                  with Epsom salt can be helpful. Also try lying 

                                  down with a wet cloth across your forehead in 

                                  a dark and quiet room can be very helpful and 

                                  rid you of your migraine. Sometimes eating something with 

                                  starch or sugar can help. Low blood sugar can 

                                  sometimes trigger a migraine even if you feel 

                                  that you are not hungry. Try these common solutions 

                                  before trying over the counter medication or 

                                  going to the doctor. You may be surprised at 

                                  how easy it is to rid yourself of the pain naturally. While waiting to get your acupuncture 

                                  treatment you can get help now by getting Headache 

                                  Sunglasses from Trigger Optics. We are so 

                                    confident in our product and your satisfaction 

                                    we stand behind every pair. If You are not completely satisfied with Trigger 

                                    Optics Headache Sunglasses Will Refund 100% 

                                    of your money NO QUESTIONS ASKED Subscribe 

                                                      for News and Discounts on 

                                                      Trigger Optics Name: Email: WE NEVER RENT, SELL, OR DISTRIBUTE ANY 

                                          PERSONAL INFORMATION INCLUDING E-MAIL ADDRESSES PURCHASE 

                                        DIRECTLY FROM TRIGGER OPTICS See 

                                        an Interview with Lead Scientist Rick 

                                        Cosby Copyright © Trigger Optics,  2006 Privacy Policy | Terms of Use About Us | Services | Partners | Products | Solutions | Contacts | | SEO Manager | Master Airsmith | Paintball Bloomington Other Articles: All About Migraines | Children And Headaches | Choosing The Right Migrane Treatment | Choosing The Right Treatment | Common Questions About Migraines | Common Symptoms Of Headaches | Depression And Headaches