Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 21 Oct 2011 12:48:53 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "fec46caef8fcc1:255eb"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 14:54:55 GMT
Connection: close

GASTRIC BYPASS - Best information on obesity surgery, insurance, costs and risks WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW Home Before & After Photos Gastric Bypass Surgery Costs Insurance Information Can I 
Finance My Surgery? For Surgery Candidates For 
Healthcare Providers En Espa ñ ol Contact Us BARIATRIC PROCEDURES Gastric Bypass Surgery LAP-BAND Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding Vertical Gastric Sleeve StomaphyX Compare Bariatric Surgeries Gastric Bypass vs. LAP-BAND WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW Gastric Bypass Risks Gastric Bypass Benefits LAP-BAND Benefits After LAP-BAND Surgery Step-By-Step Process Appealing a Denial PATIENT RESOURCES BMI Calculator Gastric Bypass Diet Adjustable Band Diet Medicaid Bariatric Coverage Gastric Bypass Glossary Meet Our Surgeons Meet Our Patients Support Groups Weight 
Loss Options Health History Form Sitemap PATIENT INFORMATION Weight Loss Surgery Quiz Qualify for Bariatric Surgery After Gastric Bypass Mission Statement About Morbid Obesity Childhood Obesity Obesity Health Risks Insurance Carriers Contact Us FEATURED LOCATIONS Houston Dallas After Gastric 
                         Bypass Surgery What To Expect After 
            Gastric Bypass Surgery When you are able to move 
            about without too much 
            discomfort, to take in food 
            by mouth, and can do without 
            injectable pain medication 
            (about 3 days), you are 
            ready to leave the hospital. 
            At the time of discharge, 
            you will be given specific 
            instructions indicating what 
            you may and may not do and 
            when to come back to the 
            office for follow-up. You 
            will need to remain on a 
            liquid diet after discharge 
            and you will receive 
            additional instructions 
            regarding your diet from the 
            surgeon. Several weeks after you have 
            left the hospital, you will 
            be able to eat regular food 
            in small quantities. Always 
            remember that a few bites of 
            food will make you feel 
            full. The following points 
            need to be reemphasized: 
            Listen to your stomach, not 
            your eyes. Stop eating when 
            you feel full, even if it 
            seems that you have not 
            eaten enough. One bite too 
            many may cause significant 
            discomfort. One extra bite 
            may cause you to vomit. You 
            do not need a lot of food. Eating After Gastric 
            Bypass Surgery After about six weeks, it 
            should be relatively easy 
            for you to enjoy a small 
            meal.  Eat only three meals 
            a day.  Establish regular 
            mealtimes.  Your diet should 
            consist of solid food, 
            mostly meat, including 
            poultry and fish, and 
            vegetables, in very small 
            quantities.  Take very small 
            bites, chew all your food 
            well, and eat slowly.  A 
            meal should take at least 
            thirty minutes to an hour to 
            consume.  DO NOT drink 
            liquids 30 minutes prior to 
            a meal to 30 minutes after a 
            meal, and no drinking during 
            the meal. Drinking during 
            the meal will cause a 
            sensation of pressure in the 
            chest that is uncomfortable 
            and can cause the food to 
            backup. Take the time to relax just 
            before, during, and after 
            mealtime. Between meals, it 
            is advisable to drink five 
            or six glasses of water, 
            coffee, or tea without sugar 
            or non-carbonated diet 
            drinks to maintain your 
            fluid intake. Do not drink 
            liquids that are high in 
            calories. Remember, if you 
            take in extra calories 
            between meals, weight loss 
            will be slower and you will 
            not achieve the weight you 
            desire. Exercise After Gastric 
            Bypass Surgery Exercise is important in the 
            recovery from any 
            operation.  Walking is one 
            of the most effective forms 
            of exercise
            for this 
            purpose.  A regular exercise 
            program is highly 
            recommended.  Begin with 
            very short walks several 
            times a day and gradually 
            increase the 
            distance.  Walking also 
            improves muscle tone while 
            you are losing weight.  Do 
            not, at first, engage in 
            strenuous
            exercise.  For 
            example, do not lift more 
            than ten pounds at a 
            time.  About six weeks after 
            surgery, you should be able 
            to tolerate all but the most 
            strenuous exercises. Do not sit or stand in one 
            place for a long period of 
            time.  Light housekeeping 
            chores may be performed when
            you feel you are 
            able.  Driving a car is 
            usually permitted one week 
            after surgery.  Sexual 
            activities may be resumed 
            unless otherwise specified. Most people are able to 
            return to light work after 
            two weeks and to heavy labor 
            after six weeks.  The time 
            of your return to work will 
            depend upon the physical 
            demands of your job and the 
            rate of your recovery. Expected Weight loss 
            After Gastric Bypass Surgery In the first year, patients 
            lose, on the average, 
            approximately one hundred 
            pounds, or two-thirds of 
            their excess weight.  By the 
            end of the second year, the 
            average patient has lost 36% 
            of his or her total body 
            weight.  About 10% of 
            patients fail to experience 
            significant weight loss, 
            primarily because they 
            persist in consuming 
            high-calorie liquids or soft 
            foods, such as peanut 
            butter, ice cream and sodas, 
            which readily slide through 
            the little stomach pouch. You will need to return for 
            follow-up visits 
            periodically until your 
            weight has 
            stabilized.  Blood tests may 
            be required to help assess 
            your progress. Unless you understand all of 
            the problems that can arise 
            from this surgery, accept 
            the risks, and are willing 
            to cooperate fully in 
            follow-up and treatment, you 
            should not have this 
            operation. Surgery by itself will not 
            miraculously cure 
            obesity.  Best results are 
            obtained when patients 
            practice good dietary and 
            exercise habits.  Your 
            cooperation is 
            essential.  The surgical 
            procedure was the physical 
            vehicle you needed to curb 
            overeating. There are many changes and 
            adjustments to be made with 
            weight loss.  However, the 
            frustrations you may 
            experience will seem 
            insignificant in comparison 
            to the overwhelming 
            satisfaction produced by 
            increased self-esteem and a 
            sense of accomplishment. Home l Qualify for Surgery l Patient Financing l Gastric Bypass Surgery l Gastric Bypass Costs l Lap-Band Surgery Gastric Banding l Gastric Sleeve l Before and After Photos l BMI Calculator l Patient Stories Gastric Bypass Insurance l Gastric Bypass Candidates l Gastric Bypass Surgery Glossary l Step-by-Step Process Gastric Bypass Benefits l Site Map l Disclaimer l Privacy Policy l Contact Us Copyright 
                              2002-2010 Axcension, Inc. – Please enter your height and weight Height Feet 4 5 6 7 Inches 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Weight lbs Your BMI – What does it cost? Thank you for inquiring about this surgery In many cases your insurance will cover all/most of the cost of this surgery. If you want to pay cash,  the cost can be as low as $10,000 **cost varies region to region Another good reason to have surgery is that our patients have told us that  weight loss surgery can reduce your monthly food bill as much as 50%  or more What is your average monthly food bill? Using $ as your cost per month you could save on food expense over the next 5 years alone. Besides the  significantly higher food costs, medical costs are dramatically higher to those suffering from morbid obesity – How may we help you? I would like a free evaluation to see if my insurance covers this procedure I would like to schedule an appointment about this procedure I would like you to send me more information about my weight loss surgery options I woul