Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Feb 2007 14:01:23 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "471ed74946c71:a33d"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 08:33:51 GMT
Connection: close

Herbal Medicine. Migraine - HolisticOnLine - Your gateway to alternative medicine,
complementary medicine, herbs, nutrition, health, food supplements, homeopathy, ayurveda,
accupuncture, yoga, reflexology, conventional medicine Home Search Holisticonline Grandmas 
			Remedies Quality vitamins,  natural remedies Specialgifts.com Big savings on gemstones, jewelry and gifts. Alternative
    Medicine Stress
    Management Conditions/
      Treatments Preferred
    Providers Holistic Living Alternative
    Therapies Acupuncture Aromatherapy Ayurveda Biofeedback Chelation
    Therapy Herbal
    Medicine Homeopathy Humor
    Therapy Hydrotherapy Imagery Light Therapy Massage Meditation NLP Nutrition Prayer/
      Spiritual Reiki Shiatsu Yoga FAQ (Health) Feedback Register Media Migraine
    Headaches Herbal Medicine Many herbal medicines can provide relief from migraine headache. The herb feverfew is
especially useful for this purpose. It is being used extensively in Europe for the
prevention of migraine attacks. Feverfew contains parthenolide, the plant's active
ingredient, that inhibits the brain chemicals that dilate blood vessels and cause a
migraine. Thus, feverfew has some of the same anti-inflammatory effects as aspirin,
without aspirin's side effects. The herb must be taken for several weeks before the
effects are felt. So, it is useful as a preventive medicine and not for combating the pain
when the migraine is already in progress. Clinical studies with feverfew have focused on the treatment and prevention of
migraine. A double-blind study of patients who reported that they had been helped by
feverfew was performed at the London Migraine Clinic. A test group was given a placebo to
determine if their symptoms worsened. They did, increasing in both the frequency and
severity of the attack. Another clinical study involved migraine patients who had been using feverfew for
several years. Seventeen patients were given either feverfew (50 mg daily) or placebo.
Eight patients, who remained on feverfew, experienced continued relief of migraines over a
six month period. The nine receiving placebo had an almost three-fold increase in
migraines. Many of these headaches were incapacitating, along with other symptoms such as
anxiety, insomnia and muscle and joint soreness. This has prompted some concern at the
abrupt cessation of feverfew therapy. A second study enrolled 72 migraine sufferers. They received either 82 mg of feverfew
daily or a placebo. Treatment with feverfew for four months led to a decreased incidence and severity of
migraines. Feverfew also led to less vomiting attacks and fewer visual disturbances during
migraine attacks. Adverse events were mild (primarily mild gastrointestinal upset and
nervousness) and did not result in discontinuation of treatment. These studies indicate the efficacy of feverfew as a useful tool in the long-term
management of migraines. Recommended Dosage of Feverfew Appropriate dosing of feverfew leaf for migraine prevention is based on parthenolide
content. A recommended daily dosage of 125 mg of a dried feverfew leaf preparation
containing a minimum of 0.2% parthenolide is often prescribed for migraine prevention.
This translates to a daily parthenolide dosage of at least 250 mcg. This is considered the
minimum amount for efficacy. Unpublished studies indicate that 100 mg. per day of feverfew
extract at .7% parthenolide content may be more desirable. Please note that feverfew will work effectively only if you take it every day - not
just when you get a migraine--and only if you take enough of it. This is because feverfew
functions mainly as a preventive, so it won't help much once you already have a migraine. Note the expiration date on the bottle. Parthenolide is relatively unstable; the closer
the product gets to the expiration date, the less likely it is to find enough parthenolide
for the product to be effective. Do not use feverfew if you are pregnant or lactating or for children under the age of
two years. Other Recommended Herbs for Migraine Ginkgo biloba Ginkgo biloba increases blood circulation. Use up to 240 mg, daily Use a standardized extract containing 24-percent ginkgoflavone glycosides and 6-percent
terpene lactones. Ginkgo biloba has been shown to offer some promise for the management of migraines in
two small French clinical trials. The daily dose ranged from 120 to 240 mg. May be
beneficial in preventing migraine due to its ability to inhibit platelet activating
factor. Can cause minor headaches when initially taken. This effect subsides usually
within the first week of use. Ginger Ginger (Zingiber officinale) contains constituents that inhibit platelet aggregation.
Ginger tea works, for a migraine headache in the front of the head. One case study
published in the Journal of Ethnopharmacology reported on a 42 year old female migraine
sufferer who found relief taking 500 to 600 mg of ginger powder mixed with water every
four hours for four days. The patient was instructed to begin ginger at the onset of visual aura. The authors
report improvement within 30 minutes of beginning ginger. They also note that continued
use of ginger by the woman led to decreased frequency and intensity of migraines. Kava kava 140 to 210 mg of kavalactones Has a mellowing effect that may be helpful for the treatment of stress-related
migraines. Valerian 300 to 500 mg Use a standardized extract. Has traditionally been used for relaxation at bedtime, but may be helpful in reducing
the incidence of recurring headaches due to stress. Do not drive a vehicle while under the effects of this herb. Black willow (Salix nigra) : In decoction Wood betony Jamaican dogwood (Piscidia erythrina): In decoction
for migraine accompanied by insomnia or dysmenorrhea. Black horehound (Ballota nigra): For nausea and
vomiting. Combines well with meadowsweet and camomile in infusion. Damiana, kola, sarsaparilla, ginseng : Recommended when
migraine is due to fatigue, lassitude, and general debility. Fenugreek : infusion, steep 5-15 minutes, take 1 cup
during the day, hot or cold Peppermint : oil, 5-10 drops, 3 times daily; fluid
extraction, 1-2 tsp., 3 times daily; infusion, steep 5-15 minutes, take 6 oz., 3 times
daily Rosemary : infusion, steep 5-15 minutes, take 2 oz., 3
times daily; oil, 1-3 drops, 3 times daily; external: Rub diluted oil (1 part rosemary
with 10 parts vegetable oil) on forehead and temples. Also use as a nasal vapor bath. Camomile tea helps prevent migraines. Lavender : Rub some lavender oil on the temples and
fore, head. Lavender has antispasmodic and cooling properties. Herbal Teas Marjoram, St. John's wort, fennel or caraway seed tea with 1 tsp. of honey is helpful for relieving symptoms. Mix equal amounts of agrimony, wormwood and centaury . Pour boiling water over 1
tsp. of this mix, steep five minutes, strain and drink unsweetened. Apply a hot herbal compress to the back of the neck. Use camomile, St. John's wort
or lemon balm infusions. Chinese Herbal Remedy for Migraine 9 grams Cnidium (Chuan Xiang) 9 grams Mastic (Ru Xiang) 9 grams Myrrh (Mo Yao) 9 grams Polygala root (Yuan Zhi) 9 grams Asarum (Xi Xin) 9 grams Gypsum (Shi Gao) 9 grams Trichosanthes root (Rian Hua Fen) Combine all of the herbs and grind them into a fine powder with a mortar and pestle. If
the left side of your head hurts, sniff a small amount of this powder into your right
nostril. If the right side of your head hurts, sniff it up your left nostril. If both
sides hurt, put it up both nostrils. Do this no more than three times per day. This formula is especially effective for people who are constantly on the run and have
very stressful jobs. Cnidium, mastic, and myrrh and polygala root enhance the circulation
of blood and energy to the brain. Asarum and gypsum help the medicine penetrate where it
is needed, while trichosanthes root is added to pull out the bad energy. Myrr contains chemicals that stimulate the circulation, making it very effective for
the treatment of headache. Mastic is a form of resin from the mastic tree. It is known to
stop pain and swelling, and achieves especially deep penetration when combined with the
circulation-stimulating effects of myrrh. Also See Herbal
Medicine Herbs useful for managing stress Next Topic: [ Migraine Home ][ Holistic-online Home ] Holisticonline.com is developed and maintained
by ICBS, Inc. Send mail to: info@holisticonline.com with
comments about this web site. Copyrigh