Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 21:30:58 GMT
X-Varnish: 946981945
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

L'Effort Camerounais (English Version): "Bone marrow transplantation has the potential to cure sickle cell disease", says  medical expert L'Effort Camerounais (English Version) Home Archives Subscribe L'Effort Camerounais in Brief eBags Coupons Web www.leffortcamerounais.com History Contact Editorial Team Categories Across the Continent Books Breaking News Columnists Commentary Culture Ecclesia In Africa Economy Editorial Education Front Page Health Issues How I Heard My Call Interviews Literary Corner Local Church National Episcopal Conference of Cameroon News from the Holy See Politics Quiet Moments Religion Science Smile with L'Effort Society Society News Special Report: Pope John Paul II Special Report: The Making of a Pope Sports Travel Universal Church Recent Comments Raoul on Anglican Archbishop in Cameroon says they are looking forward to full communion with Roman Catholics Richard C. Shipp on L'Effort Camerounais: Contact Information A Facebook User on Celebrating the life of an active octogenarian akwa on Editorial: We Only Reap What We Sow! Vunda Moutchia on St. Thomas Aquinas’ Major Seminary, Bambui-Bamenda now has new Rector Vunda Moutchia on Bamenda Maryvale Institute sends out 7th batch, instructor marks 30 years as catechist Vunda Moutchia on Bamenda Maryvale Institute graduates third and sixth batches Vunda Moutchia on On the ceremony’s sidelines L’Effort Camerounais caught up and talked to Elisabeth and Norman Taylor fondly called Ma and Ta. Excerpts: dominic bonifacio mascarenhas on “The Vatican strongly endorses African Traditional Religion,” Fr Humphrey Tatah Mbuy Ojage Raphael Ayuk on Mamfe Bishop Makes diocesan appointments « Sickle Cells Prevention Campaign ends in Yaounde | Main | Sickle-cell patients question discriminatory Public Health policy » "Bone marrow transplantation has the potential to cure sickle cell disease", says  medical expert Interviewed by Aloysius Agendia Doctor Asa'ah Tazanu Nkohkwo, Chartered Clinical Scientist  and CEO of World Siclke Cell Society, says bone marrow transplants have the potential of curing the sickle cell disease. Doctor, you have been involved in the fight against Sickle disease for long. What is your definition of the disease? The term "sickle cell disease" describes a blood genetic condition due to the presence in the blood circulation of sickle-shaped cells (drepanocytosis). Over 500,000 babies per year are born worldwide with sickle cell disease, 75 percent in sub-Saharan Africa. Over 7million people are living worldwide with sickle cell disease. To explain the condition, it's best to start with the molecule known as haemoglobin. Haemoglobin is the molecule / substance in blood (the red blood cell) which gives it its red colour. But most importantly, haemoglobin is the substance in the blood circulation which carries oxygen around the body from the lungs to where ever the body needs it in order to breathe: the brain, the bones, the heart etc. People with sickle cell disease have a blood circulation which tends to be hampered, especially in the small blood vessels. This is because they have inherited a haemoglobin molecule which upon giving up its oxygen tends to twist the shape of the red cell (into a characteristic farmer's sickle- hence the name) and so doing causes these red cells to tend to lump together. In small blood vessels, this tends to block or hamper the smooth flow of the blood. The result is that the rest of the body which would have been drained by this blocked circulation is starved of oxygen. The tissues of that part of the body so starved would die causing severe inflammation or pain (known as "crisis"). In addition to the pain, and depending on the part of the body (organ / tissue), there could result an even more serious complication. Hence, a sickling crisis could cause a heart attack or a stroke (brain damage). Indeed, because blood circulates all over the body, one can envisage a possible complication anywhere in the body. Another frequent complication in sickling is that the sickle-shaped cells tend to be considered as abnormal and removed by the spleen. The result of such removal is that people with sickle cell would tend to be anaemic, especially those with the particular type known as "sickle cell anaemia". How is this disease transmitted? Sickle cell disease is a genetic condition. In order words, it results from inheriting the genes for the condition. Indeed, in the case of sickle cell, you would have to inherit the gene from both parents to suffer from sickle disease. Otherwise you will be a sickle cell disease carrier, in the case where you inherited the gene from only one parent. Carriers are well and healthy, although being "silent" means they may pass on the genes without knowing. Two carriers have indeed a one in four chance of producing a "full-blown" sickle baby in every pregnancy. The chance increases to 50 percent if one of the parents is a "full-blown" sufferer while the other is a carrier. How can it be prevented? As earlier said, sickle cell disease can be prevented by avoiding procreation between two people carrying the gene for sickle cell. Of course, another option is to screen the pregnancy in favour of the one which is carrying a sickle free embryo or baby. Can it be cured? Not routinely at the moment. But a technique called bone marrow transplantation has the potential to cure sickle cell disease, especially in children. This is when the bone marrow of a donor with normal red blood cells is introduced to take over the marrow of someone who suffers from sickle cell disease. Incidentally, bone marrow is the substance from which blood cells are made. Over 150 children have been cured by transplantation around the world, since the first one was performed in the 1970s. There are other promising advances in the pipeline, including gene therapy. There is a believe that those infected with the disease must die before that age of 21 or so, after which  the disease can no longer kill them. Is that true? This belief is a myth. Sickle cell disease is a lifelong condition and all the serious risks explained above remain seriously so right through life. What is the average life expectancy of people living with this condition? Firstly, sickle cell disease does not result from a virus. It is genetic in origin. Secondly, the life expectancy varies with awareness and knowledge of the patient about their condition and the health expertise in their surrounding, as well as the availability of adequate and appropriate medical care. Hence, people living with sickle cell are increasingly reaching the normal life expectancy of their surrounding, especially if the appropriate medical care is available for them. In the UK and US, for example, it is not uncommon to see people with sickle cell now living into their 60s and 70s, rapidly approaching the normal life expectancy of 75. But this contrasts drastically with Africa where over 75 percent of the 400,000 born annually are believed not to pass their 5th birthday, for the obvious reasons. How can those with the disease live a normal life like others? What should they do and what should they not do? The condition can be well controlled depending on the knowledge of the sufferer, their parents and the doctors available. For example, the pain can be controlled with pain killers; the anaemia requires blood transfusion. Also, regular penicillin is needed, especially in the young patients, to keep infections at bay. Infections have the tendency to push sufferers into crisis. Sufferers also need to ensure that they feed well and avoid getting dehydrated by drinking a lot of water. Strenuous exercises should be avoided. Sickle cell is older than AIDS and lots of research is being done on AIDS. What has been done and what is being done at the level of research to look for a vaccine or a cure for this disease? By older, you mean that it was discovered before. Yes, sickle cell was first described almost 100 years ago, while HIV-AIDS was first described in the early 1980s. Research into bone marrow transplantation for sickle cell disease was sparked in the 1970s, when due to serendipity it was found to have been cured by transplanting bone marrow to cure leukaemia cancer in a patient who concurrently suffered from sickle cell disease. However the initial enthusiasm waned due to the huge cost over $500 thousandFCFA(About CFA 100million newsoom note) of treating that first case, although it is widely believed that sickle cell disease was abandoned due to the strategic focus of commercial medical researchers away from what they perceived was not a lucrative market. Do you think the international community is paying enough attention on sickle cell disease and its patients? In the last couple of years, thanks to the pressure from the Black community (largely) in Europe and US, thanks to the patronage of the African First ladies, notably Congo and Senegal, there is increasing political goodwill towards the sickle cell cause. Indeed, the World Health Assembly eventually passed a resolution in May 2006 declaring sickle cell anaemia a global public health priority, after Malaria, HIV-AIDS and Tuberculosis. For the first time a non-infectious disease emerged on the top shelf at the WHO. So, there is hope at last. Let us move a little bit away from the disease and talk about your organisation which takes care of patients and give out advice. Could you tell us more about Sickle Cell society? The Sickle Cell Society, founded 27 years ago in London, by a group of patients, parents and healthcare workers, resulted from the yearn of the community to address the plight of those  living at the time at the margins of National Health Service system in the UK. From the humble social justice beginnings aimed at addressing an acute need for awareness, the Society today is a challenging umbrella of some 30 nationwide support groups run from its head offices in London. The Society also networks nationally and internationally to ensure that the sickle cell cause is at the heart of public health decision making. The Society provides information, advice, counselling, advocacy, practical support and research. Some of these activities are provided indirectly in partnership with government agencies and universities. The Society is a founder member of the Pan-European Blood Safety Alliance based in Nicosia, Cyprus and an advocacy associate of the Organisation Internationale de Lutte Contre la Drepanocytose, based in Paris. Most of your friends and other government personalities are making huge sums of money from AIDS why did you prefer to focus on Sickle cell? I would sincerely rather want to believe that my medical colleagues are working on HIV-AIDS for the excitement and, above all, the need to serve a common humanity, for that to me is a more noble goal. Of course, one has to feel primordially comfortable financially, and understandably so, never mind the yard stick as is implicit in your observation! I chose the sickle cell field out of serendipity- a family experience meant I had to address, first, that which nature had landed on my very own doorstep. What evaluation do you make of your activities perhaps at global level? When the state register was established in 2000, I was one of the first clinical scientists in the UK to be accredited, after 7 years effective practice in Nuclear Medicine at the world-famous Royal Marsden Cancer Referral Hospital in London. An alumnus of the UK Public Health Leadership Development programme, I am a lead assessor for those who wish to practise as public health specialist. I am chief executive of an organisation that is premier of its kind. I am the first chief executive to have taken the Sickle Cell Society  to the global stage with effective networking in Europe, the US, Canada and Africa. Hence, I sit on several national and international boards addressing public health challenges resulting from blood disorders. I was instrumental in the lobby that resulted in the WHA resolution of last year. Indeed, as a result of my demonstrated competencies and continuing strategic involvement, I was recently invited onto the Advisory Panel of the Human Genetics and Health Promotion of the WHO. I am counsel of reference and provide professional consultancy in French & English to several NGOs in the UK and Africa. In 2002, I entered into the Marquis Who's Who in Medicine & Healthcare- the 21st Century Chronicle of Human Achievement. You know Cameroon and the rest of the developing world have little means to fight the disease. Do you think the impact of your organisation is being felt in Cameroon, your country of origin? Not as yet, the Sickle Cell Society remains largely remitted to act within the UK. What word do you have for sickle patients in Cameroon? They should keep hope. Let me state that a plan is in place to address the myriad of cries for help I get daily from Africa, including Cameroon, in matters of sickle cell. Indeed, I have formed the London Focus Group on Sickle Cell Africa, and NGO which is presently drawing up a plan for Africa including Cameroon. Our first thesis is already at the WHO. Fingers crossed! What message for parents of sickle cell victims, relatives and the community in which they live? Be patient and supportive to those living with sickle cell disease and you will be amazed by their potential contribution to your very own richness as a community. In any case, as they say in good old philosophy- who is well or better anyway? It's all a matter of degree… Any other last word? Sickle Cell Disease, to me, is a matter more than an ill-health adversity. It's the medical world's social justice opportunity, challenging we Black people to also run a cause as effectively and efficiently as other races. That is what drives my determination to triumph eventually in the face of this adversity. May 24, 2007 at 05:36 AM | Permalink Comments this is wonderful interview for sickle cell pateinets and and doctors too.How can they get to contact you? Posted by:
		jimmy ngwa | June 07, 2007 at 07:39 AM i was vcery pleased reading this interview.I have learnt a lot from it.How  can i get to know Dr Asaah? Posted by:
		jothnatha ngwesse | July 02, 2007 at 08:27 AM The comments to this entry are closed. National Episcopal Conference of Cameroon The Conference at a Glance February 2012 Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 L'effort Vistior Locator Recent Posts Lamp For My Steps: Our priests need our prayers L'Effort Camerounais No. 521, From February 01 to February 12, 2012 Editorial: If We Deny Our People Even This, What Else Can We Give Them! Rev. Fr. François-Marie Gnammi Kasco released “The accusations against me are false and they amuse me,” Rev. Fr. Gnammi Kasco “The arrest of a priest is not the problem, but Fr. Gnammi Kasco’s arrest was not done within the law,” Barrister Bernard Misselel What Would You Like To Do Absolutely As A Catholic: Before You Die? Ten things to do before you kick the bucket What will you like to do absolutely as a Catholic before you die? Car Owners to start paying parking fees in Bamenda Subscribe to this blog's feed Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 Septem