Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
ntCoent-Length: 54037
Vary: Host
P3P: CP='CAO CURa ADMa DEVa TAIa PSAa PSDa CONi OUR DELi SAMo OTRo BUS IND PHY ONL UNI COM NAV INT DEM'
Expires: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 23:01:09 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=0, no-cache
Pragma: no-cache
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 23:01:09 GMT
Connection: close

New case of whooping cough in Clark County puts county on track to hit at least 90 this year | 						OregonLive.com Sign in | Register for free Sign in to OregonLive.com Username Password Remember me I forgot my username or password » Don't have an account? Register now for free , or sign in with any of these services: AIM Google OpenID Site Search Search Local Business Listings Home News Opinion Sports Entertainment Living Interact Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Classifieds Find n Save Living Foodday Health Homes & Gardens Outdoors & Recreation Parenting Pets Photos Travel more Living Home > Health & Fitness News New case of whooping cough in Clark County puts county on track to hit at least 90 this year Published: Sunday, March 11, 2012,  9:00 AM     Updated: Sunday, March 11, 2012, 12:03 PM By Lynne Terry, The Oregonian The Oregonian Follow 11 Tweet Share close Digg Stumble Upon Fark Reddit Share Email Print View full size Faith Cathcart/Oregonian/2009 Dr. Gary Oxman public health officer for Multnomah/Clackamas/Washington Counties pictured here at a 2009 press conference has said whooping cough is highly contagious but rarely travels far. Health officials in Clark County reported a new case of whooping cough Friday, its 20th since January 1. That puts the county on track to hit at least 90 cases this year, said Marni Storey,  deputy director of public health. "We've been seeing over the past few years throughout Washington state more cases of pertussis than we've had in previous years," she said. Clark County saw a spike in 2010 with 92 cases, compared with 18 the year before. The reasons behind the uptick are unclear. "It's too early to tell what's going on," she said. In 2010, cases also rocketed upwards in California, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But in Multnomah, Clackamas and Washington County, they fell to 76 from 104 in 2009. Dr. Gary Oxman, public health officer for the three counties, said that the disease -- though highly contagious -- usually does not travel far. Health officials tend to intervene quickly, urging patients to stay home to limit contagion. "There's a lot of local variation that happens especially if you get an outbreak associated with a daycare or school," Oxman said. The counties reported 26 cases in the first two months of the year, about a handful fewer than last year. View full size Michael Lloyd/The Oregonian/file Jaime Alejandro Carballo-Buenfil didn't like his immunization against whooping cough. The three counties benefit from a special surveillance program against pertussis that's funded by the CDC. Oxman said the program involves extensive data collection, interviews and low-cost and even free test kits. "Unfortunately, we don't have that," Storey said of Clark County. She said pre-schoolers and school-aged children accounted for most of the Clark County cases this year, though patients have ranged from infants to a 50-year-old woman. So far, no one has been hospitalized. Pertussis, characterized by a persistent cough, is spread when people sneeze or cough. It poses the biggest health risk to infants. In Oregon, four children between one to three months old have died from pertussis since 2003. Mothers can easily contaminate their babies. Symptoms can last two to four weeks and are treated with antibiotics. Nationwide, vaccines are recommended at 2, 4 and 6 months and then the first booster is given at 15 to 18 months. At 4 to 6 years old, children are supposed to get another booster. Children often get that one late, Storey said. Washington health authorities are trying to figure out why. The vaccines and boosters are required for attendance in schools. Adults are supposed to get booster shots every 10 years throughout their lives. "A lot of us don't know that," she said. Adults and older children generally don't have severe symptoms but they can expose vulnerable infants. She advises anyone with a persistent cough to see a health provider. Clark County public health officials try to contain the disease by interviewing patients and family members to determine who else might have been exposed. Any children younger than a year are given preventative antibiotics. Oxman said the disease tends to kick up in summer and fall. "December, January and February tend to be the lowest months of year," he said. "It begins to pick up in April." -- Lynne Terry Follow me on Twitter @LynnePDX Sponsored Links Share this story Print Email Story tools More stories in Health & Fitness News Previous story You Docs: 6 blood-pressure goofs you can fix Copyright 2012 OregonLive.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. 11 Comments Feed View: 
				
					Oldest first | Newest first E Pluribus Unum March 11, 2012 at  9:23AM Follow One possible reason for the increase in diseases that were nearly erradicated in this country is people that enter this country illegal and are not immunized.  But heaven forbid don't say that, someone will start throwing race cards out. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new Tomie March 11, 2012 at 11:17AM Follow Yeah we wouldn't want to talk about that. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new Tomie March 11, 2012 at 11:23AM Follow "ninety percent of all casses occur in third world countries"http://www.sciencedaily.com/articles/p/pertussis.htm Hmmm Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new lekcin March 11, 2012 at  9:27AM Follow Actually, the above post is incorrect.  Most immigrants have no problem with immunizations; they want them because they have seen people die of diseases.  It is the whack jobs that think immunizations cause autism despite the fact that every single study has shown that they don't.  Ask your pediatrician, does he/she immunize their own kid?  Think they would do it if it caused autism?  Then make your decision.  If you want your own kid to not get immunized though, the problem is that they are spreading this disease to infants less than 2 months and killing them.  Hope it isn't your infant. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new jazzteroid March 11, 2012 at 10:52AM Follow The problem is neither of those discussed above.  Its likely caused by the massive chemtrails  sprayed over the metro area 10 to 12 hours a day 4 or 5 days a week. We've all seen the jets littering our skyscape with long thick trails of ooze that last for hours and eventually look something like clouds. Theres all sorts of nasty stuff in those chemtrails, heavy metals and occasionally human plasma and other stuff, plastics etc. Its nasty and everyone I kn ow has had a nagging cough for years.  When you see the trails at 10 pm, you know they are not designed to shield the suns rays. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new Ziggy Rathfield March 11, 2012 at 11:14AM Follow Antibiotics only slow the spread of these diseases, which soon grow resistant to the antibiotics, and result in a modified, drug-resistant form of the bug that is difficult, if not impossible to control.  Casual use of antibiotics in people, pets, and animals grown for food, as well as their disposal into our various municipal waste systems have all combined to create a recipe for an uncontrollable family of super-bugs, incurable and fast spreading, which will be Mother Natures revenge on the human race for despoiling this once pristine planet! Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new MV March 11, 2012 at 11:48AM Follow Typical, there is an outbreak of a totally avoidable disease and all the xenophobes and conspiracy theorists come out of the woodwork. The answer is pretty simple; people are not getting immunized. Stop the anti-science nonsense and get all children immunized. Put your myth based beliefs in their proper place, under the floor boards in the 12th century, and get modern medical care for your kids. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new psudano March 11, 2012 at 11:57AM Follow There are ignoramuses who dispute the fact that evolution is an integral part of organic life on Earth, that 2+2 can sometimes not equal 4, and that John Lennon and Elvis are still alive.  And then there are parents who believe that inoculations are unnecessary and at worst likely to do more harm than good, like, perhaps, actuating autism.  Is it no wonder that there is a spike in pertussis cases? This attitude is not the province of the uneducated. Witness Marin county in N. California, a region of advance degree adults: there a few years ago the incidence of pertussis was the highest in the state. Why? Because parents bought into the "evil" adjective tagged to vaccination.  Do you want to see polio rise again? No? It was a horror of a disease when I was a young boy. Several houses in my neighborhood had red quarantine signs attached to their garage doors. When the vaccination for polio was introduced, it was broadly embraced.  You can embrace crystals and chanting and incense wafting without compromising what is actually true in the world: on topic, get your children vaccinated against diseases that are no longer endemic because of the progress of scientific research. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new Ziggy Rathfield March 11, 2012 at 12:04PM Follow conspiracy theories aside, it is an established fact that diseases do develop resistance to antibiotics. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new jazzteroid March 11, 2012 at 12:06PM Follow The individual vaccines can be bought mercury free.   The one to avaid is the one that combines them all into one shot. Better to do them one at a time.  Thats a pretty safe bet. There is a relationship between Mercury and brain damage in infants and that is a fact. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new firstthings March 11, 2012 at  1:15PM Follow The wacko-loonies just keep making up "facts" about vaccines and then seem surprised when easily preventable diseases return. If you want to post a "fact" could you post a link to the nationally recognised medical site where it is verified? Polio, "hard" or German measles and many other diseases are rare because socially responsible have their children immunized to avoid the spread of diseases. If you chose not to immunise then please keep your child out of preschools, daycare, public transit and other places you endanger the health of others. Inappropriate? Alert us. Reply Post new Post a comment (You may use HTML tags for style) You must accept the terms of service before you can post a comment. Post a comment Sign in to OregonLive.com Username Password Remember me? I forgot my username or password » Don't have an account? Register now for free , or sign in with any of these services: AIM Google OpenID More Health & Fitness News Most Comments Most Recent Health & Fitness News stories with the most comments in the last 7 days. 68 Marijuana reform heats up in Washington state 47 With launch of Oregon health care reforms, now comes the hard part 45 After combat, many Oregon vets continue to battle unseen wounds 39 Despite abuse from critics, attorney says parents of Down syndrome child pursued  'wrongful birth' suit to secure her financial future 21 New Army study tracks rise in suicide, mental illness rates among soldiers since 2003 Iraq invasion Most Active Users What's this? Users We Love Oregon high school football fan, 'chadicus01' OregonLive.com contributor is part of our vibrant and diverse high school sports community. More Users We Love Connect with OregonLive.com What's this? All Facebook & Twitter accounts » From Our Advertisers Advertise With Us » Popular Tags What's this? Site Search Search Local Business Listings Site Map | Advertise | Contact us Make us your home page Home | News | Weather | Sports | Entertainment | Living | Interact | Jobs | Autos | Real Estate | Rentals | Classifieds | Shopping Your Photos Your Videos Blogs Forums Travel Music Post a job Post a free classified ad Sell your car Sell/rent your home Apartments & rentals Claim your Business Listing for free Obits / Death Notices Business News Environmental News Contests Dining Movies Subscribe to our content (RSS) News alerts | Sports alerts Twitter feed OregonLive.com Multimedia OregonLive.com Mobile Site Learn about our mobile site The Oregonian - The Oregonian Business Center | Hillsboro Argus Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy (Revised November 1, 2011) © 2012 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit