Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 21:16:57 GMT
X-Varnish: 2360642841
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Male Circumcision and HIV: 3 entries from February 2009 Male Circumcision and HIV Front Page The Intactivists The AAP/CDC Project FAQ ARCLaw Intact America Donate! « January 2009 | Main | March 2009 » 3 entries from February 2009 Thursday, February 26, 2009 OPEN THREAD: Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention I have been aware for a long time that the Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention website was in development. It is now live. You can visit it at http://www.malecircumcision.org/ . It is primarily an American-developed enterprise. However, they try to mask this by using British spelling throughout and linking the initiative with UNAIDS and the WHO, two American-dominated world organizations. The link above opens in a new window. Go have a look and return with your insights in the comments. Posted by David Wilton at 08:45 AM in Public Policy Activism | Permalink | Comments (2) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Wednesday, February 25, 2009 Mark Cloutier of the San Francisco AIDS Foundation finally responds [added edit at end] The day after Christmas last year, I received an email from the San Francisco AIDS Foundation in their yearly Christmas-New Years plea for money. I voiced my concern on the issue of circumcision. See the email and my response here . A few weeks later, I got an email from the assistant to the director, Mark Cloutier, stating Mr. Cloutier was traveling. The assistant said Mr. Cloutier would respond as soon as he returned. Finally, he has returned? Or at least, he has responded from wherever he is/has been. [Screen captures resized. Click on image to enlarge.] It is a good thing, I think, that Mr. Cloutier acknowledges that the Foundation does not do research. I even like the idea that Mr. Cloutier says that they will monitor the data on circumcision. These facts surely are responsible for the fact that the SFAF has not promoted circumcision for gay men when other groups such as the IAVA and AVAC (vaccine research advocate groups) have. If you have any thoughts on this letter, please leave them in the comments or respond directly to Mr. Cloutier. Respectful, courteous and to the point work best. mark@sfaf.org The link in the letter to the SFAF statement on circumcision may be reached by clicking here . EDIT: You can see my critique of said statement here . Posted by David Wilton at 12:49 PM in Public Policy Activism | Permalink | Comments (1) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Sunday, February 22, 2009 New Scientist: Are we about to eliminate AIDS? Over the past year, we've seen a number of stories which, when taken together, demonstrate a clear public health strategy for eliminating HIV in our lifetime. This isn't some revolutionary vaccine, but a plan that can be put to work today. Swiss HIV specialists announced about a year ago that HIV positive partners in sero-discordant relationships are not sexually infectious provided that they faithfully take their antiretroviral medications and have no coinfections known to increase the probability of transmission. The CDC quickly dismissed the announcement (unlike the agency's reaction to circumcision) because it might encourage unsafe sex and "send the wrong message." Several months later, in November of 2008, the Lancet published findings that mathematically demonstrated that universal HIV testing, starting at age 15, followed by antiretrovirials if one were to test positive would reduce HIV prevalence in South Africa to 1 in 1000 in 10 years and virtually eliminate HIV in 50 years. This approach now seems to be gaining some traction among policy makers. Today, New Scientist published an article outlining this strategy and the hurdles to implementing it. Most interesting about this discussion are some of the hurdles cited, including: The ethical problem of implementing a universal HIV testing program; The ethical problem of starting treatment when one has contracted HIV but still has a high CD4 count. From the article: Perhaps the most medically contentious part of the elimination plan, in any country, is that all those diagnosed positive would begin antiretroviral treatment immediately. At present there is no firm evidence that HIV does any damage to an individual as long as their CD4 count is above 350. " There are great big ethical problems about recommending treatment to someone when it's not clinically beneficial to that person ," says Tom Chadbourn of the UKs Health Protection Agency. On the one hand, we have AIDS advocacy groups making a hard push for circumcision in Africa, including going after children, without a single thought to the ethical problems that such a policy would (not might) present. On the other hand, we have the same agencies raising concerns with regard to non-invasive testing of adolescents and adults and treating those who test positive. While positions held by health policy agencies around the world with regard to circumcision in Africa vary, we know what the WHO and UNAIDS are saying. It boggles the mind how these bureaucrats can promote circumcision, especially for those not even remotely at risk (such as neonates) while at the same time find fault with a plan which could bring real change to the face of the epidemic in 10 short years. The New Scientist article relates that this approach is being considered for areas of high prevalence, but also discusses the case for low prevalence regions. This is something that we should implement now. Countries such as the US have the resources to implement universal testing and treatment. Testing can simply be added to the same sets of tests one has at an annual physical, not unlike checking one's blood pressure. In many communities in America, HIV medications are already available to all, very much like childhood vaccinations are. Unfortunately, the absence of universal primary care will be the main obstacle to normalized routine testing and treatment in the United States. While the wisdom of moving forward on universal routine testing and treatment is clear, it is important that policy advocates continue to distinguish between this approach and mass circumcison for a limited and dubious benefit that will have human costs far higher than making sure everyone is attended to on the treatment front. If you have any doubts on that, this quote from Marcus Conant, an HIV specialist in San Francisco where circumcision is favored in the UCSF HIV research community, should cause us all to sit up and pay attention: "Should
we try a social intervention which infringes on people's civil
liberties?" asks Conant. "AIDS infringes upon people too. If we're
going to stop this epidemic, this is a responsibility that society has
to shoulder." It is so easy to imagine this argument for implementing mass adult and neonatal circumcision. As we know, circumcision has a life of its own, independent of evolving medical and social conventions. While universal testing and treatment is mostly non-invasive and has a real chance of ending the AIDS epidemic, the overriding of individual rights, to the extent deemed necessary, may very well have consequences beyond its purpose to eliminate HIV/AIDS in our lifetime. Drawing the line is the job of policy advocates. Making sure the distinctions are clear are our marching orders. Link: Are we about to eliminate AIDS? - health - 19 February 2009 - New Scientist . Posted by Joe at 11:30 AM in Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis , Health Care Policy , HIV Prevention , Public Policy Activism , Research & Politics , Trends | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Subscribe and receive a numbered copy of The Intactivists: San Francisco Pride 2009-2010 as our thank you! Or buy the book online to support us! Here's why . { IAS 2011 - Rome } Did you know that our twitter feed includes many news items you won't find in the blog? Click on MC_HIV to view and follow our full twitter feed. Twitter Feed follow MC_HIV on Twitter Subscribe to this blog's feed Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Search About Male Circumcision and HIV provides a place for a public health policy debate on the linking of male circumcision and HIV/AIDS. It seeks to address questions of cost versus benefit, the effectiveness of circumcision in the fight against HIV/AIDS in real world settings, and the differing points of view of researchers, the media, and all contributors to the policy discussion. Contributors David Wilton David Wilton is a lawyer by training. He has a long-standing interest in issues of body integrity and HIV/AIDS. He maintains this site and blogs from San Francisco, California. His primary interests outside of nurturing a debate on the controversial measure of removing sexual tissue to reduce the spread of HIV are in the areas of international relations, languages, and journalism. Interviews Circumcision and HIV: A Conversation with David Wilton CUT, The PODCAST: In this episode, Eli Ungar-Sargon sits down with David Wilton of Male Circumcision and HIV to discuss the issue of circumcision and HIV-AIDS. Below, San Francisco attorney David Wilton discusses male circumcision, HIV, and human rights. Read a transcription of this interview here . San Francisco attorney David Wilton interviewed on Outlook Video viz human rights and male circumcision Contact Circumcisionandhiv.com PO Box 40312 San Francisco, CA 94140 [Please put CIRCUMCISIONANDHIV in the subject line.] San Francisco Pride Outreach 2011 2010 2009 Bonobo3D - Documenting Intactivism Intactivist Blogs infocirc End Routine Infant Circumcision IntactNews Barefoot Intactivist peaceful parenting Men Do Complain | Mythbusting Circumcision Choose Intact IntactByDefault no circumcision Beyond the Bris Jewish Intactivist Organizations קה"ל - קהילת הורים לילדים שלמים ברית מילה - חדשות מהארץ והעולם Beyond the Bris Jewish Circumcision Resource Center Jews Against Circumcision ברית מילה Gonnen.org Intactivist Organizations The WHOLE Network: Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information - The WHOLE Network - Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information Circumcision Information Resource Center of Colorado Doctors Opposing Circumcision NORM - The National Organization of Restoring Men MGMbill.org International Coalition for Genital Integrity - Intactivist Group Bay Area Intactivists | Promoting Genital Integrity For All Intaction.org to End Infant Circumcision Now ARC - Attorneys for the Rights of the Child National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers  Intactivists Intactivist Allies ~ Peaceful Parenting ~ Woman, Uncensored TLC Tugger The Teapot Atheist The Lifelube Blog - gay . sexy . healthy The Kvetcher · David Kelsey The Guggie Daily Tantalus Prime Stop Circumcision RollingDoughnut.com NOHARMM Home Page mothering magazine - inspiring natural families since 1976 ManHood: The foreskin substitute for men who are circumcised, foreskin restoration, or intact with penile discomfort Joseph4GI Intactivism Pages - HIV page History of Circumcision Growing with my Girls Gloria Lemay Global Health Council Gene Expression DailyKos: Diarist RealityBias Cut: The Film Circumcision information for Australians | Circinfo.org Circumcision Information and Resource Pages Blog powered by TypePad Amazon.com Widgets Categories 15th CROI (2008) AAP 2010 AAP NCE 2009 Affliction Fiction AIDS 2008 - Mexico City AIDS 2012 ASHM 2008 Circumcision Journalism Crazy Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) Genital Integrity Genital Integrity 2008 Genital Integrity 2010 Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis Health Care Policy HIV Prevention IAS 2007 - Sydney IAS 2009 - Cape Town IAS 2010 - Vienna IAS 2011 - Rome Informed Consent Intactivism Law MSM, Same Sex Issues NHPC 2009 Notebook Off Topic pdf files Prevalence Pro-Circumcision Lobby Public Policy Activism Q & A Religion Research & Politics Science SFMGMBill.org Trends Vaccines Web/Tech Weblogs Around the Web Circumcision and AIDS at MGMbill.org A decidedly anti-circumcision site with a calm approach to addressing the human rights issues likely to become problematic in the rush to roll out circumcision as an HIV prophylactic. Circumcision and HIV at circumstitions.com One of the most thorough reviews anywhere of circumcision and the history behind the HIV prevention community's study of it. The science behind this prophylactic tool is much more equivocal than the most recent researchers would have you believe. New Zealand based. Circumcision and HIV: Harm Outweighs Benefits from circumcision.org From the Circumcision Resource Center, Boston, Massachusetts. This human rights organization has published such books as Questioning Circumcision: A Jewish Perspective and Circumcision: The Hidden Trauma . Sitting on its board are a number of individuals affiliated with Harvard and other Ivy League institutions. Circumcision and HIV infection from CIRP.org From the Circumcision Information Resource Pages. An excellent primer on the issue. Doctors Opposing Circumcision statement on HIV Doctor's Opposing Circumcision is a Seattle based physicians group that provides education, information and advice on medical circumcision and its effects. Statement on AIDS and Circumcision from the International Coalition for Genital Integrity Another thorough treatment of male circumcision's likely impact on the spread of HIV from an "alliance of organizations dedicated to protecting the normal anatomy of males, females and the intersexed ... [that] was formed to coalesce the many activist organizations, each with a specific focus, into one, common voice." Does circumcision prevent HIV infection? - NORM-UK John Dalton puts together a critique of the African studies and their weaknesses. He examines the evidence, appropriateness, and possible outcomes from promoting circumcision and calling it a "prevention." Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 Jul