
Pikes Peak Courier View: News Friday April 13, 2012 Welcome! Login | Signup Login | My Dashboard | Register Logout | My Dashboard Screen Name or Email Password Forgot? Screen Name or Email Now I remember! Or, use your linked account: facebook google yahoo myopenid aol Need an account? Create one now. ourcoloradonews.com ColoradoEDUCATION ColoradoHEALTH BusinessSCENE ColoradoLIVING Advertise Pikes Peak Courier View: News Home News Sports Life Opinion Photos Celebrations Obituaries Find a Business Classifieds Jobs Autos Real Estate Garage Sales Merchandise Legal/Announcements Pets Service Directory Education Place an ad Contact Us Subscribe Pay a Bill Subscriber Services Advertise Communities Castle Rock Centennial Elbert County Englewood Highlands Ranch Littleton Lone Tree Parker Teller County Tri-Lakes Home Tellercounty News Woodland Park smoking program helps teens quit Story Comments (1) Image (1) Print Create a hardcopy of this page Font Size: Default font size Larger font size Woodland Park smoking program helps teens quit The Not-On-Tobacco program at Woodland Park High School helps students rid themselves of tobacco addiction. File Photo Posted: Tuesday, February 28, 2012 2:20 pm Woodland Park smoking program helps teens quit Nick Kendrick Contributing writer Community Media of Colorado | 1 comment Whether minor or severe or triggered by stress or depression, addictions are a hurdle of life that many people confront daily. One man, Darren Sheaffer, who is the RE-2 School District Health Coordinator, has dedicated himself to helping Woodland Park youths overcome the constraints of addiction, no matter the type. Having worked with high-risk youths for 10 years, Sheaffer recently became involved as an instructor for the Not-On-Tobacco program at Woodland Park High School. “We all have demons that we face, and the sooner we learn to overcome those addictions in a healthy manner, the more successful we can be as adults,” he said. Established by the American Lung Association in 1997, N.O.T. is a voluntary program which works through the community to reduce smoking among teens. Since its beginning, studies have shown that 20 percent of those who participate in the program leave smoke-free. The program meets from 9:22-9:55 a.m. every Friday in room 703 at the high school. Anyone interested can just show up at a meeting. N.O.T. consists of 10 sessions over a 10-week period, and participants can choose to remain anonymous if they desire. Assistance is available both inside and outside the sessions. In addition, there are 10 to 12 facilitators available community-wide who provide further aid to students hoping to break their smoking addictions. The course begins with an introduction into what students can expect over the next few months. Initially, a goal date is set, marking not only the program’s halfway point but the date when participants are expected to quit smoking entirely. From there, the students focus upon stress management and finding healthier beneficial alternatives to using tobacco. Students enrolled in the program are taught how to cope without nicotine. As well as coming to understand their smoking patterns, students are also made aware of “triggers” that contribute to the desire to smoke. These triggers are found not only in stress but might also be the result of peer pressure and family influence. Even though not all students will find themselves relieved of their addiction by the 10th week, this shouldn’t imply that attending the sessions is pointless. Rather, as Sheaffer explained, even though a student’s first encounter with N.O.T. might not cure the need to smoke, there is still the opportunity to gain the knowledge and resources to help one quit later on. Discuss Print Posted in News on Tuesday, February 28, 2012 2:20 pm. Similar Stories Mistakes end Matthews’ run for commissioner Community celebrates Earth Day Brain infection hits local official Worthey wins in Green Mountain Falls Turley wins mayoral election Most Read Chaparral HS grad charged with murder Downtown Littleton touted as emerging venue County launches sex harassment investigation Photos of possible suspects in jewel heist released Living with PTSD: Highlands Ranch twins among many who suffer Welcome to the discussion. Screen Name or Email Password Forgot? Screen Name or Email Now I remember! Or, use your linked account: facebook google yahoo myopenid aol Need an account? Create one now. 1 comment: BrennanNewfield posted at 8:26 am on Wed, Feb 29, 2012. Posts: 1 Anything that helps people quit smoking is certainly a good thing... Quitters should also look into hypnotherapy. I got a self-hypnosis recording off http://www.hypnosismiracle.com, and I quit smoking right away! Try it sometime! Link 40° Partly Cloudy More weather. Advanced Search COLORADO NEWS Home BusinessSCENE ColoradoHEALTH ColoradoEDU ColoradoLIVING Calendar Celebrations Contests Obituaries Pets Photos Weather LOCAL COMMUNITIES Castle Rock Centennial Citizen Elbert County Englewood Highlands Ranch Littleton Lone Tree Parker Teller County Tri-Lakes MARKETPLACE Autos Business Directory Classifieds Jobs Legals Real Estate Rentals Garage Sales Merchandise Pets Announcements Service Directory Education SERVICES Advertise with us Place a Classified ad Subscription Services RSS Feeds Newsletters About Us Contact Us Terms Of Service Privacy Policy Site Index MEMBERSHIP Sign up Log in Search Terms of service | Privacy statement |