
Cymbalta (duloxetine HCl): Official Site Sign In Prescribing Information Safety Information and Boxed Warning Medication Guide Información en Español Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Depression Understanding Depression The Impact of Depression Talking With Others About Depression Cymbalta and Depression Information for Friends and Family Generalized Anxiety Disorder Understanding Generalized Anxiety Disorder The Impact of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Talking to Your Doctor About Generalized Anxiety Disorder Cymbalta and Generalized Anxiety Disorder Information for Friends and Family Diabetic Nerve Pain Understanding Diabetic Nerve Pain The Impact of Diabetic Nerve Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Diabetic Nerve Pain Cymbalta and Diabetic Nerve Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Managing Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Understanding Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Osteoarthritis Pain Information for Friends and Family Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Due to: Chronic Low Back Pain Managing Chronic Low Back Pain Understanding Chronic Low Back Pain Talking to Your Doctor About Chronic Low Back Pain Information for Friends and Family Fibromyalgia Understanding Fibromyalgia How Fibromyalgia May Affect You Talking to Your Doctor About Fibromyalgia Cymbalta and Fibromyalgia Information for Friends and Family Learn About Cymbalta Información en Español How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work What to Expect Resource Center Important Safety Information Side Effects Commonly Asked Questions About Cymbalta Contact Us About Lilly Understanding Depression Depression Symptoms Treatment Options Depression FAQ The Impact of Depression Talking With Others About Depression Depression Impact Tool Talking to Friends and Family Partnering With Your Doctor Cymbalta and Depression Information for Friends and Family Common Questions About Treatment Talking About Depression First Steps First Steps Homepage Information for Friends and Family Understanding Depression Treatment Options First Steps First Steps Homepage Understanding Depression Depression Symptoms First Steps First Steps Homepage Understanding Depression The Impact of Depression Partnering With Your Healthcare Provider Depression Impact Tool First Steps First Steps Homepage Treatment Options Learn About Cymbalta Cymbalta and Depression Depression Impact Tool First Steps First Steps Homepage Learn About Cymbalta See How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work Cymbalta and Depression Resources for Support Depression Impact Tool First Steps First Steps Homepage Learn About Cymbalta See How Cymbalta Is Believed to Work Cymbalta and Depression Resources for Support Home > Depression > Information for Friends and Family Information for Friends and Family Someone with depression may be unable or unwilling to ask for help. That's why partners, parents, adult children, and friends need to be proactive about getting—and staying—involved. Having consistent support from friends and family can play a crucial role in helping someone seek treatment. Many people are reluctant to discuss their depression. That's why having a support system can make all the difference in someone's life. They'll need someone with whom they can be honest —someone they can lean on. Tips for How to Be Supportive Even though you cannot replace treatment given by a healthcare professional, you can have a great impact on someone's life. You can offer them practical as well as emotional support. Practical support can include things like making their doctor's appointments for them, picking up their children from school or extracurricular activities, and taking some time to cook a meal with them a couple of times a week Emotional support can include calling them nightly to see how they're feeling, meeting for coffee or tea once a week to catch up, and encouraging them to stick with their treatment program. Your emotional support can help get them on the road to improvement Take Suicidal Thoughts Seriously Thoughts about death or suicide are not uncommon in depression, and it's important to take such thoughts seriously. If someone you are caring for feels like giving up, get help immediately: Call your doctor Go to the emergency room Call 911 Call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, 1-800-SUICIDE [1-800-784-2433] Recognize Depression If you are supporting someone with depression, it may help for you to be able to identify the symptoms of depression. Depression can include a broad range of symptoms. Learn as much as you can in order to understand depression . Make a Commitment Now that you've decided to support someone with depression, it's a good idea to determine how much time you can give, how much time your friend or loved one will need, if you think you can sustain this relationship over time, the kind of support you think you can offer, and if this experience will be a positive one for you, too. Break Down Barriers to Support You may find it difficult to begin a discussion about depression with your friend or loved one, but it doesn't have to be. It may be a matter of choosing the right time to have the conversation. You may find that the words flow more easily if you and your loved one are in a calm environment such as a local park or out to lunch, away from the stresses of work. Try not to pass judgment—your loved one could be feeling vulnerable, so it's important to show concern and compassion. If they know that you are there to be supportive and unbiased, they may be more likely to open up. Don't be surprised or hurt if the person doesn't open up to you immediately. Gentle persistence is the key. Be patient—it could take some time. Build a Network of Support As part of one's support system, you should encourage your friend or loved one to seek professional help. Stress to them that it is important for them to speak to a doctor, because only a healthcare professional can diagnose depression. By reminding them to be open with their healthcare provider, you are helping them get on the road toward improvement. Talking With Others About Depression Even though you are aiding in your loved one's treatment, you need to know that though they may have setbacks and recurring episodes, you should still continue to coach and motivate them. One thing you can do is assist with a wellness plan with definable goals for success. It's a good idea to provide feedback to the person with depression. They may not notice slight changes that you do, so go ahead and share these with them. You could help them gain a positive outlook on their improvement. Take Care of Yourself You may find yourself feeling drained and exhausted as you take on this new role as part of a support system. You won't be able to take care of someone else if you don't take care of yourself first. It's OK to take some time each day for yourself, too. Here are some ideas to help you feel good: Go see a movie Be sure to spend time with friends and family Take some time off—you don't have to be on duty 24 hours a day Don't lose sight of personal goals you want to achieve Write down your feelings—this is a good stress reliever Your role as a supportive partner is vital. Learn about common questions about treatment and how to talk about depression with a loved one. Indications Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in four short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).  The efficacy of Cymbalta was established in three short-term and one maintenance trial in adults. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia. Cymbalta is indicated for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic osteoarthritis pain and chronic low back pain. Important Safety Information About Cymbalta The most important information you should know about Cymbalta: Antidepressants can increase suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, teens, and young adults. Suicide is a known risk of depression and some other psychiatric disorders. Call your doctor right away if you have new or worsening depression symptoms, unusual changes in behavior, or thoughts of suicide. Be especially observant within the first few months of treatment or after a change in dose. Approved only for adults 18 and over. Cymbalta ® (duloxetine HCl) is not for everyone. Do not take Cymbalta if you: have recently taken a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or Mellaril ® (thioridazine) have uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure) Before taking Cymbalta, talk with your healthcare provider: about all your medical conditions, including kidney or liver problems, glaucoma, diabetes, seizures, or if you have bipolar disorder. Cymbalta may worsen a type of glaucoma or diabetes about all your prescription and nonprescription medicines.  A potentially life-threatening condition has been reported when Cymbalta was taken with certain drugs for migraine, mood, or psychotic disorders if you are taking NSAID pain relievers, aspirin, or blood thinners. Use with Cymbalta may increase bleeding risk about your alcohol use about your blood pressure. Cymbalta can increase your blood pressure. Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure prior to and while taking Cymbalta if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during therapy, or are breast-feeding While taking Cymbalta, talk to your healthcare provider right away: if you have itching, right upper-belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin/eyes, or unexplained flu-like symptoms, which may be signs of liver problems. Severe liver problems, sometimes fatal, have been reported if you have high fever, confusion and stiff muscles, which may be symptoms of a potentially life-threatening condition if you have skin blisters, serious or peeling rash, hives, mouth sores, or any other allergic reaction. These may be serious, possibly life-threatening , skin reactions if you experience dizziness or fainting upon standing. This tends to occur in the first week or when increasing the dose, but may occur at any time during treatment before you stop Cymbalta or change your dose if you experience headache, weakness, confusion, problems concentrating, memory problems, or feel unsteady, which may be signs of low sodium levels if you develop problems with urine flow Most common side effects of Cymbalta (this is not a complete list): nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, fatigue, constipation, dizziness, decreased appetite, and increased sweating You are encouraged to report negative side effects of Prescription drugs to the FDA.  Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088 . Other safety information about Cymbalta: Cymbalta may cause sleepiness and dizziness. Until you know how Cymbalta affects you, you should not drive a car or operate hazardous machinery. People age 65 and older who took Cymbalta reported more falls, some resulting in serious injuries. How to take Cymbalta: Take Cymbalta exactly as directed by your healthcare provider. Cymbalta should be taken by mouth. Do not open, break or chew capsule; it must be swallowed whole. Cymbalta can be taken with or without food. Cymbalta is available by prescription only. See Prescribing Information , including Boxed Warning about antidepressants and risk of suicide, and Medication Guide . DD CON ISI 28NOV2011 Prescribing Information | Safety Information and Boxed Warning | Medication Guide | Multimedia Help | Glossary | Site Map | Patient Assistance Program Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Copyright DD61726-012012A ©Lilly USA, LLC 
 2012. All rights reserved. This site is intended for U.S. residents age 18 and over. Cymbalta is a registered trademark of Lilly USA, LLC. No Yes This Site: 