<http://www.bu.edu/today/?p=21674>; rel=shortlink
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Via: 1.0 www.bu.edu
X-BU-Main-Uniqueid: T07YqArxHDYAAFW13g4AAAEO
X-BU-Duration: D=147395
X-BU-Backend: niscms http://wwwcms01.bu.edu
Connection: close

$9 Million Grant Fuels Sickle Cell Study |  BU Today   | Boston University Arts & Entertainment Science & Tech In The World Campus Life Health & Wellness Sports Archives Topics Series This Site BU Medical All BU BU Maps BU Directory Google BU Today Science & Tech $9 Million Grant Fuels Sickle Cell Study BU team uses iPS stem cells to probe treatments, cures 09.28.2011 By Susan Seligson share it! 5 “It’s a clinical trial in a test tube,” says molecular biologist George Murphy, a codirector of BU's Center for Regenerative Medicine. Photos by Vernon Doucette BU researchers have developed a way to test treatments for sickle cell disease —a genetic disorder of the red blood cells—by working with stem cells grown from a small vial of patients’ blood. “It’s a clinical trial in a test tube,” says molecular biologist George J. Murphy, a School of Medicine assistant professor of medicine and a codirector of BU’s Center for Regenerative Medicine (CReM). The BU team recently received a five-year, $9 million grant from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health to grow the versatile cells—called induced pluripotent stem, or iPS, cells—as well as generate a living library of genetic variations of sickle cell disease . Known as disease modeling, it is one of the ways the scientists at CReM are working in collaboration with clinicians to tackle hereditary and incurable conditions. Growing iPS cells enables researchers to study a range of subtle genetic factors and mutations and test treatments on human tissue. Reflecting the cutting edge of the rapidly evolving field of regenerative medicine, the versatile iPS cells, which CReM researchers had previously derived from small samples of their own skin , resemble embryonic stem cells. Like embryonic cells, under optimal conditions they can be made to differentiate into any type of cell found in the body, and might replace embryonic cells completely once researchers eliminate risks associated with them. Murphy says that the iPS cells represent a crucial step toward the eventual use of regenerative medicine to customize cells with a donor’s own DNA, using the donor’s own cells, and replace diseased tissue or organs with healthy ones. The recent grant supports the University’s multidisciplinary approach, involving a repertory of molecular biologists, hematologists, and genetics experts, to scale up drug studies in iPS lines, whose production is extremely labor-intensive. (In Murphy’s lab, researchers must tend the delicate cell cultures seven days a week.) “The grant brings together two of the most dynamic entities” on the Medical Campus, says Murphy, referring to BU’s Center of Excellence in Sickle Cell Disease in addition to CReM. The diagram above illustrates the process of creating induced  pluripotent stem cells from patients' blood samples. These identical stem cells can then be used for gene therapy or for disease modeling and drug testing. Diagram courtesy of George Murphy When all goes well, it takes a month in the lab for sickle cell donors’ blood cells to be redifferentiated, through a complex process involving a “vector”—in this case a virus—followed by cultivation and selection of cell colonies returned to an embryonic-like state. Like embryonic cells, the cultures can develop into any type of human cells. Their progress can be tracked visually under the microscope and in more refined and complex ways, explains Murphy, a former Fulbright scholar and an advisor for NASA’s SLS 2 Life Sciences Space Shuttle mission. The result—a renewable supply of stem cells with the donors’ genetics—makes the cells immortal. Murphy and Martin Steinberg, a MED professor of medicine, pediatrics, pathology, and laboratory medicine and director of the Center of Excellence in Sickle Cell Disease, say that the NHLBI grant will see the iPS research to the next level, making it possible to maintain and predict the health and purity of cell cultures. It will be many years before the results of this research translate into human trials, which would be preceded by studies on animals. About 80,000 Americans live with sickle cell disease, which can result in a range of potential complications, including severe pain, fatigue, infections, and impaired development. The disease is most often diagnosed in the United States at birth, although doctors can test for it in utero with amniocentesis. The condition can lead to stroke, even in very young children. Abnormalities in hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying protein responsible for blood’s red color, give the short-lived sickle cells their characteristic rod-like shape and make them stiffen and stick to each other, blocking blood vessels and arteries. The genetic trait for the disease, found in people of African, Mediterranean, Middle Eastern, East Indian, Caribbean, and South and Central American descent, affects one in 12 African Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control . (The iPS study is being done in collaboration with scientists in Saudi Arabia, which has a population at high risk for sickle cell disease.) Healthy people can carry the trait; the disease results when a baby inherits the gene from both parents. In the United States, testing newborns for sickle cell disease is now mandated by law, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services . Sickle cell can be a cruel disease. Patients experience “sudden attacks of severe pain, pneumonia-like infections, stroke, liver disease, and problems walking,” says Steinberg. One of the world’s foremost experts on sickle cell genetics, he has worked with sickle cell patients in treatment, diagnosis, and research for most of his career. Several treatments are available that prolong the lives of sickle cell patients. The fairly inexpensive anti-tumor drug hydroxyurea, which reduces mortality by as much as 40 percent, must be taken daily and indefinitely to be effective, Steinberg notes. It appears to stimulate production of fetal hemoglobin, a type usually found only in newborns, which helps prevent the sickling of red blood cells. Most recently, the disease has been reversed through bone marrow transplants, but the procedure is extremely risky and requires an identical sibling donor, he says. Still in the experimental phase is a procedure to transplant patients with their own marrow, after it has been genetically “corrected” through the recombinant techniques commonly known as gene therapy. With the help of the new funding, the iPS procedure will replace human subjects in the testing of more effective treatments and potential cures for sickle cell disease. The elegance, and promise, of the procedure is that “you can make as many cells as you want,” says Murphy, explaining that the growth factors and cell cultures used in the CReM lab are the result of years of trial and error. Although the iPS cells offer the promise of a versatile, inexhaustible alternative, until the process of deriving them is perfected, the researchers use embryonic stem cells as controls. With the researchers’ efforts focused on the disease modeling phase, iPS cells hold “enormous promise,” says Murphy, but also one that must be approached cautiously. “We have to be prepared for the fact that anything could turn out wrong,” he says. Share Twitter Facebook Email Print Susan Seligson Susan Seligson can be reached at sueselig@bu.edu . Today Top Stories Events Dean of Boston Jazz Radio Hariri Institute Names First Junior Faculty Fellows Lunch, Anyone? The Salty Pig Video: Terrier Tech: Livescribe Echo Smartpen Wednesday Lunch Box Talks--Prof Jennifer Knust, "Sex and the Bible" 12:30pm POSTPONED: Women's Lacrosse vs. Yale 4:00pm Love Your Body Panel Discussion 6:00pm Israel Apartheid Week: Native America and Palestine: Indigeneity and Settler-Colonialism 7:00pm Film Screening: Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits 7:30pm The Place of Activism in Food Studies: A Case Study of Baby Food Advocacy 7:30pm full calendar From the Archives 08.26.2010 Stem Cell Injunction Has Researchers Reeling With NIH-funded research in peril, MED scientists watch, wait 06.20.2011 More Than Just Skin Deep MED center transforms skin cells into stem cells Video: 11.08.2010 The Whole Tooth and Nothing but the Tooth SDM researchers’ tooth regeneration could eliminate root canals, more Related Topics biology genetics innovation medicine research Tracking the Elusive Orangutan CAS prof studies links between nutrition, reproduction Wanted: One Good Physics Teacher PhysTEC recruits more, and better qualified, science teachers NEIDL Goes Public BU biosafety labs offer tours to press, politicians more in this topic Seeing Double: Aging Study Focuses on Unique Group BU psychologists study Vietnam vets who are also twins $9 Million Grant Fuels Sickle Cell Study BU team uses iPS stem cells to probe treatments, cures More Than Just Skin Deep MED center transforms skin cells into stem cells more in this topic NEIDL Goes Public BU biosafety labs offer tours to press, politicians ENG Student Makes Forbes 30 Under 30 List Kyle Allison wins second major award ENG Student Wins Collegiate Inventors Competition Treatment for persistent infections takes first prize and $15K more in this topic Indoor Tanning Dangerous, Warns MED Prof New report on perils of tanning salons Teaching Doctors How to Close Life’s Last Door MED’s end-of-life curriculum: science, humanity—and house calls Hometown Role Model SAR student brings sports medicine, life lessons to Boston school more in this topic Hariri Institute Names First Junior Faculty Fellows Pursuing trustee’s mission of interdisciplinary research Pondering What’s Way, Way Out There CAS astronomer uses Voyager probes to look beyond our solar system African American Writers on African Americans CAS prof’s book looks at black characters in works of black writers more in this topic 5 Comments on $9 Million Grant Fuels Sickle Cell Study Patrick Nelson on 09.28.2011 at 11:43 am reply link Anyone who says that science isn’t cool clearly hasn’t taken the time to look into what researchers are capable of these days…thanks for the article and explaining things in a manner we can all understand. Harriet on 09.28.2011 at 4:53 pm reply link Fantastic work…and I hope that this technology is applicable to other genetic diseases. GJ on 09.28.2011 at 4:56 pm reply link Learn more about sickle cell anemia via the NIH… nteghenjwa a. kitufe on 09.29.2011 at 6:38 am reply link Thanks BU researchers.For sure Sterm cell technology could be  an answer to many diseases, specifically hereditary and incured disease as the iPS cells can differatiate to any type of cells in the body.I JUST PRAY FOR SUCCESS IN THESE MOLECULAR BIOLOGISTS.BIG UP!!! Jackie on 10.16.2011 at 8:51 am reply link This is amazing! Cutting edge research that is giving hope to those afflicted with these illnesses and had believed there wasnt any recourse or solution! Its wonderful to see this research is being recognized and funded! These scientists are the true definition of super heros! Congrats! Post Your Comment cancel reply Name * Email * (never shown) Website Comment ( view guidelines ) Editor's Picks Sports Coaching, a Life Health & Wellness Lovin’ the Body You’re In In the World How Far Would You Go for $20? Campus Life Facebook Post Blasts BU Hotline Glitch Campus Life Wendy Mariner on U.S. Supreme Court Health Care Reform Case Boston University © 2011 Boston University Explore Stories Browse Archives Explore Topics (Tags) Explore Series About + Contact About BU Today Subscribe to Newsletter Contact Us Follow Us Twitter Facebook RSS Partner Sites BU Homepage Bostonia Magazine BUniverse Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, pl