
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 01:57:05 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Content-Type: text/html

Cal Mag | Calcium | Magnesium | Vitamin D Search: 800-982-9158 Two of the most important minerals that humans need are Calcium and Magnesium – they work to optimize each other in the body. To help the process Cal Mag with Vitamin D ingeniously blends Calcium Citrate and Magnesium Glycinate with Vitamin D and NT Factor ® , giving you the quickest and easiest intake, and the most effective absorption into the body. Our Science What Experts Are Saying Clinical Trials Products Propax with NT Factor ® PropaxGold with NT Factor ® Breathe Clear ® Healthy Curb ® with NT Factor Aller Avert with NT Factor Cal Mag and Vitamin D C-Complex with NT Factor Complex B-Factor with NT Factor Daily Complete Fiberdophilus with NT Factor Healthy Aging with NT Factor Joint Health Support with NT Factor Lift with NT Factor Magnesium Glycinate with NT Factor Pantethine with Gugulipids and NT Factor Perfect Oils Throat Care Special Offers Success Stories FAQs Newsletter Signup Discover NT Factor How Does NT Factor Work? What Ingredients Are In NT Factor? What Results Do People See? What Experts Are Saying Read Our Clinical Trials Cal Mag and Vitamin D Most Important Minerals That Humans Need In One Promotes heart health Helps maintain bone density Lessens muscle cramping and provides relaxation of the body Size: 120 Tablets $ 16.75 Description Information Supplement Facts Promotes heart health Helps maintain bone density Lessens muscle cramping and provides relaxation of the body Perhaps the two most important minerals that humans need to survive are Calcium and Magnesium. Calcium and Magnesium work to optimize each other in the body. To help push the process along, NTI’s supplements ingeniously blend Calcium Citrate and Magnesium glycinate with Vitamin D, and then combine it into the innovative, clinically proven base of NT Factor ® . This gives you the quickest and easiest intake, along with the most effective absorption into the body. NT Factor ® is completely composed of food and food extracts. Calcium Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the body. Supplementing with calcium citrate helps the body in many ways. Calcium builds and maintains bones and teeth. It regulates the rhythm of the heart, eases insomnia, helps regulate the passage of nutrients in and out of cellular membranes, which aids in the absorption of the NT Factor itself, and assists in blood clotting. Calcium Citrate is also very valuable in maintaining proper nerve and muscle function, as well as normal kidney function. Current scientific research shows that it reduces the occurrence of colon cancer and reduces blood cholesterol levels. Our Calcium formula comes in the highest absorbable form possible, Citrate, which is the most well tolerated form available. Magnesium Magnesium glycinate helps convert carbohydrates, protein, and fats to energy, acts as a catalyst in thousands of enzymatic processes, regulates and maintains vascular tone, helps prevent calcification of soft tissue, and is critical to proper bone formation. Magnesium Glycinate also regulates calcium and potassium metabolism, facilitates muscle constriction and relaxation, and assists in nerve transmission and conduction. For optimal absorption, this formulation uses magnesium reacted with amino acid glycine to create a compound that is highly bio-available, and well tolerated by even the most sensitive individuals. It is combined with NT Factor, a food based delivery system that lets you absorb the most magnesium available in the product. Vitamin D The role vitamin D plays in the combination of Calcium and Magnesium is a pushing agent. It helps push the calcium into the bone structure. Vitamin D is the primary regulator of calcium in the body and is vital to proper skeletal development and bone mineralization. Supplement Facts Serving   Size  3 Tablets Servings   Per Container  40 Amount   Per Serving % Daily   Value** Vitamin D   (as cholecalciferol) 75 IU 19% Calcium   (as calcium citrate, calcium carbonate, dicalcium phosphate, calicum   pyruvate, calcium borogluconate, calcium ascorbate, d- calcium pantothenate) 500 mg 50% Magnesium   (as magnesium glycinate, magnesium oxide) 250 mg 63% OptiMSM ® 40 mg † NT Factor ® Blend 440 mg † †    Daily Value not   established. **   Daily Values are based on a   2,000 calorie per day diet. Other   ingredients:  Vegetable stearic   acid, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, vegetable   magnesium stearate, silicon dioxide, pharmaceutical glaze. Contains   soy. This   product contains NO milk, egg, fish, peanuts, crustacean shellfish (lobster,   crab or shrimp), tree nuts, wheat, yeast, gluten and pork. Contains   NO artificial sweeteners, flavors, or colors. OptiMSM ® is a registered trademark of Bergstrom Nutrition NT Factor ® is a   nutrient complex extracted and prepared using proprietary processes. It is   composed only of food and food components listed as: Phosphoglycolipids - includes polyunsaturated phosphatidylcholine, glycolipids and other   polyunsaturated phosphatidyl nutrients. Bifido and Lactobacillus Bacterium -freeze-dried and microencapsulated in a state of   suspended animation with the potential to form healthy microflora colonies. Growth Media -   foods and bacteria growth factors to support microflora colonies including   rice bran extract, arginine, beet root fiber, black strap molasses, glycine,   magnesium sulfate, para-amino benzoate, leek, pantethine (bifido growth   factor), taurine, garlic, calcium borogluconate,  potassium citrate, spirulina, bromelain, natural vitamin   E, calcium ascorbate, alpha-lipoic acid, oligosaccharides, B-6, niacinamide,   riboflavin, inositol, niacin, calcium pantothenate, thiamin, B-12, folic   acid, chromium picolinate. NT Factor ® is a registered trade mark of                                                            Nutritional   Therapeutics, Inc. Po Box 5963 Hauppauge, NY 11788 Network With Us Customers Who Bought This Item Also Bought Healthy Aging Daily Complete Propax Products | Special Offers | Success Stories | About | Contact | Privacy  Policy | Site Map © 2010 Nutritional Therapeutics, Inc. All Rights Reserved These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The information provided on this site is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional or any information contained on or in any product label or packaging. You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you might have a health problem. You should not stop taking any pharmaceutical 