
Blog ECZEMA   CURE Home | Blog | About Natural Eczema Cure | Links | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions BLOG NATURAL ECZEMA CURE 06/07/2011 Natural Eczema Cure - 3 Proven Natural Eczema Remedies By Chris Veekay Eczema is a skin problem with rashes and itching that can disturb your normal day-to-day life. Several
                           treatment options like homeopathic, natural eczema cure, drugs and medicines, herbal cure etc is available for this problem.
                           Unfortunately many of the drugs and medicines do not provide effective long-term cure. Hence this problem keeps reoccurring.
                           People who try natural eczema cure get long lasting results. Here are some tips for treating eczema naturally: 1) Keep your skin moist by applying a good moisturizer. If your skin has enough moisture then the chances
                           of itching, cracking and flaking of skin gets reduced considerably. Ideally you should apply a moisturizer twice a day. If
                           you can apply the moisturizer immediately after your bath, then the absorption improves due to the dampness in the skin. Take
                           a towel and dab yourself dry after a bath. Now apply the moisturizer directly to your damp skin. This should give you very
                           good results. 2) Another natural eczema cure
                           that works well is the flaxseed oil. This oil is not only beneficial for curing eczema, but it also improves the health of
                           your skin. Don't expect overnight results. Consistent use will give you very good results. Dosage of this oil will be
                           depend upon the severity of your problem. It is best to consult a naturopath or refer to the product label for proper dosage
                           details. 3) Blue berry leaf extracts have been
                           used for ages to reduce swelling, inflammation and eczema. Blue berry leaf is a source of antioxidants and includes relatively
                           high amounts of chlorogenic acid. This acid is considered as a natural eczema cure and an anti-inflammatory medicine. Blue
                           berry leaf extract is available in the form of creams, lotions and gels. If you can buy the extract from a local wellness
                           store and use it regularly, you should get good results with your eczema. These tips should surely help you with treating eczema. However if you want to get rid of eczema
                           permanently you should go for a proper natural treatment. Are you looking for a permanent treatment for eczema problem? There is a proven natural solution
                           that will help you get rid of eczema within 2 weeks. If you seriously want to solve your skin
                           eczema problem, then don't miss looking at this solution - Click Here Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Chris_Veekay 02/07/2011 Eczema in Babies - Natural Eczema Cures For Children By Jenny Rantoul Does your baby have spots on her skin that itch like the devil? Does she have skin eruptions
                           that are a mass of red pimples or dry cracks that she obviously finds painful and annoying? If so, chances are good she has
                           eczema. Eczema in babies? Yes, it is quite common. You have probably been to allergists, dermatologists, a dozen different
                           pediatricians -- and your child still suffers from eczema. You have likely tried every type of steroid, oral steroid, oral
                           antibiotic, allergy test, blood work and still your child still continues to have horrible outbreaks. Does it break your heart each day when your child goes off to school because you can't be there
                           to watch over her and make certain she doesn't scratch and make her problem worse? If you have gone through this, you certainly don't need to be told how hard it is to see your
                           baby suffering with this painful disorder. But take heart. Eczema in babies can be cured using 100% natural eczema cures for
                           children. Here are a few helpful hints to get you started. Use cotton clothing and bedding. Fabrics
                           can make eczema much worse. Cotton is a natural fabric that breathes and allows air to the skin. It is best to use sheets
                           and bedding materials that are made of 100% cotton, and change and launder them regularly using a non-scented natural soap. Also make certain your baby's sleepers and other clothing are
                           loose fitting and made of natural fibers. Clothing that is not clean can be a major cause of eczema in babies. Regular warm baths and moisturizing . Give your baby a warm bath daily. This will kill bacteria on the
                           skin that may trigger an eruption of eczema. Use non-scented baby soaps and shampoos that are all natural. After the bath,
                           pat dry your baby with a soft towel and apply moisturizing lotion while the skin is still damp. This method is the best way
                           to lock moisture into your child's skin, which is one of the best natural eczema cures for children. There are natural creams that you can use to moisturize your baby's
                           skin and are excellent natural cures for eczema in babies. Some parents use flax seed oil, some use Vitamin E Oil, and others
                           have used Aloe Vera Oil. All of these can work very well. Just make sure you wipe off excessive oil from your baby's skin
                           and keep any of these away from the eyes. Perhaps
                           the most important part of moisturizing is making certain your baby drinks plenty of clean, clear water. By drinking water,
                           eczema in babies can be greatly reduced because water will not only help keep the skin supple, but will also flush toxins
                           out of the body which may cause skin eruptions. Use
                           a room humidifier You can add moisture
                           into the air of your baby's room with a room humidifier. This is a natural eczema cure for children because their skin
                           will absorb the additional moisture and help relieve painful itching. Some parents have used the juice of a cucumber mixed in with their baby's milk. Others have used
                           natural honey. Both of these have proved helpful in successfully treating eczema in babies. Imagine not having to worry about your child's skin condition because there are no more eruptions.
                           Imagine sleeping soundly at night, no longer rocking a crying child and wondering if the madness is ever going to end. This dream can come true. The important thing is to persist in
                           your quest for natural eczema cures for your child. Remember that hundreds and thousands of parents have gone through what
                           you are going through now. They discovered safe and reliable remedies for eczema that are 100% natural. You, or your child, can be free
                           of eczema in as quickly as the next ten days, by using Natural Cures for Eczema , which you will find at: http://aboutthefamily.com/familyhealth/eczema-home-remedies . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Jenny_Rantoul 1 /07/2011 Natural
                           Eczema Cures: Top Remedies for Treating Eczema By Arora Aman Are you confused whether to treat your
                           irritating eczema problem with an allopathic method or a natural one? To tell the truth, eczema if cured from within will
                           be beneficial as it prevents from the repetition of the problem. Pills are just known to suppress the growth, but natural
                           eczema cureswill purify the blood stream too. This
                           type of natural cures eczema cures has no side effects which can damage your skin. It frees you from all the irritation and
                           boils caused due to it. • GLA is a substance
                           which has high content of essential fatty acid that can provide nutrition to the skin. Evening primrose oil is the major source
                           of it. • Keeping your life stress-free
                           might prove to be a perfect solution to natural eczema cures. Divert your mind into something else or reduce your scratching
                           if you cannot stop it entirely. • Another
                           natural cure for eczema is taking your vitamins thoroughly. Vitamin A, B, and C helps in a number of ways for healthy skin
                           overall. Vitamin-rich foods include fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, and oily fish. • Zinc can also help reduce the appearance of eczema. Thus its deficiency can be fulfilled by
                           the intake of proper diet rich in it. •
                           Yellow clock, red clover and such many herbs are being used as a medicinal tea for natural eczema cures. • One of the best natural cures for eczema is raw honey. You
                           apply it to the eczema sites and rinse off with cold water after 5 minutes. The magical properties of raw honey offers instant
                           relief from eczema symptoms. • Chamomile
                           creams can also prove to be smoothing to the skin. You Can also use this to relieve itching. • Another useful remedy is the use of a cold compress to alleviate the pain, itching and stinging
                           sensations on your skin. • If you try mixing
                           roots of burdrock, bupleurum etc in water and consume it 3 to 4 times daily for a week. you can observe this disease to be
                           fading away slowly with time. Natural eczema
                           cures is the best way to treat the skin condition as it will allow you to stay drug-free and also help in building up your
                           immune system as a whole. With this, the blood gets purified from within and you are cured from inside. Relax yourself after
                           work and take time to enjoy yourself. Stay healthy and make your life a jovial one. Drink plenty of water as the fluid level
                           should always be maintained. Pay Close Attention Here- Are you in trouble of getting rid of your skin disease? There is a proven all natural technique which will
                           help you get rid of Eczema within 6 days. If you have been desperately looking around
                           for a cure to Eczema then this is the most important Eczema Cure Review you will ever read- Click Here . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Arora_Aman Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/4774986 2010-05-24 Eczema in Babies - Quick Treatment For Babies With Eczema Revealed! By Deena Mason Eczema in babies can be very concerning to their parents and can make them feel like treatment for babies
                           with eczema is a tough challenge. However, many doctors simply prescribe a medication to prevent specific symptoms of eczema
                           and don't fully explore the true roots of the problem. Here are some quick eczema treatment tips to explore: 1. Frequent bathing - the very best baby eczema treatment guides suggest
                           that you bathe your baby once or twice daily. The water should be slightly warm but not too hot, otherwise hot water can have
                           an adverse effect on the eczema. You want make sure it only uses mild unscented so for cleaning. Many doctors and scientists
                           have discovered that eczema and perfuming agents found in scented soaps and lotions do not mix well. 2. Adequate moisturizing - moisturizing the skin reduces the urge to itch which can in turn reduce discomfort
                           that is caused when a baby itches more and more. Excessive itching can lead to scratching or worse. What you want to do is
                           apply a moisturizer to your baby right after a bath. When you dry your baby off, Pat the skin lightly with a soft cloth versus
                           rubbing it on the skin which can create irritation. You can actually leave the skin slightly damp so that the moisturizer
                           can lock in some of the dampness in the skin. You'll want to use them on an unscented moisturizer. 3. Clothing and bedding - one of the most often overlooked aspect of eczema
                           in babies lies in a child's bedding and clothing. Professional treatment for babies with eczema advised that your bedding
                           is 100% cotton and washed frequently so that it remains as bacteria free as possible. And again, make sure your laundry detergent
                           is mild and scent free. And if possible, make sure that your clothing is not made of wool or any other similar fabric that
                           can either take your baby's skin should it come in contact with it. 4. Careful eating diet - it can be difficult to maintain a careful diet in children, especially infants but
                           try to keep foods that contain a lot of acids minimized as much as possible. This is due to another discovery from scientists
                           who have linked increases of eczema skin conditions when large amounts of acidic foods are consumed. This is true for all
                           cases of eczema of any age, not just a baby eczema treatment. Eczema
                           can be tough on anybody of any age that suffers from it especially eczema in babies. Treatment for babies with eczema is possible
                           as long as the parent is willing to do what they can to prevent the irritating and discomforting symptoms that come along
                           with eczema. IMPORTANT: If your baby is suffering from
                           any eczema symptoms you should try to overcome these as soon as possible using natural eczema treatment . It is the best, most proven way to permanently beat eczeama. Find out FREE information on how to do it at http://www.EczemaTreatmentReviews.com Author Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Deena_Mason 2010-05-17 Healing Eczema in Small Children - Use Safe and Natural Remedies By Victoria Gemini You will be at your wit's end trying to find a method of healing eczema if your child suffers from this dreaded
                           condition. You would certainly find it very difficult to pacify your child and prevent her from scratching at her sore skin.
                           No parent likes to see their child in such discomfort and your agony is increased by the doctor's seeming inability to
                           cure your child's ailment. Most conventional
                           treatments for eczema are most inappropriate for an adult, leave alone a child. Most adults I know would be extremely reluctant
                           to undergo a course of corticosteroids, however mild it may be. Parents are also very unwilling to give their children antibiotics
                           or antihistamines over a long duration. Unfortunately, treatment for healing eczema takes a long time because the disease
                           never really gets fully cured. The safest and surest
                           way of healing eczema in children is to follow natural methods. You can do this for as long as you need without any fear of
                           side effects or long term drug dependency. You must first
                           prevent your child from scratching her body, although this is easier said than done. You could make your child wear gloves
                           so that she cannot cut her skin with her fingernails. You should massage your child twice a day with any natural oil such
                           as coconut, olive or almond. They are very soothing to the skin and will also be an effective barrier to moisture loss. Another effective barrier cream you could use is shea butter or cocoa butter.
                           These are very rich emollients and will reduce the dryness of the skin drastically and thereby do away the need to itch. Bathe your child in warm water, using oatmeal in colloidal solution in order
                           to clean the skin. This will help remove the excess dead flaky skin, giving the skin cells below the opportunity to breathe.
                           By doing this you also reduce the risk of bacterial infection by removing the dead cells the bacteria feed on. Apply some
                           honey to badly affected areas and cover it to prevent your child wiping it off. Look for a hypoallergenic detergent to wash your child's clothes in and make sure they are well rinsed
                           so that no trace of detergent is left in them. In addition,
                           you will also have to add some nutrients to your child's diet. Daily supplements of omega 3 fatty acids are vital to healing
                           eczema. Follow these steps and you will be very gratified
                           to see your child's eczema vanish. Now Pay
                           Close Attention Here: Stop suffering
                           from Eczema anymore, it is not a chronic disease and can be cured in just 2 weeks with the help of natural remedies. If you
                           really want to get rid of eczema , this is the most important page you will ever read- Click Here Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Victoria_Gemini 2010-05-14 Natural Cures For Eczema - Animal Shedding - Read These Tips on How to Overcome This
                           Allergen By Kevin P James One of the reasons why natural cures for eczema work better than traditional medicine is because of the holistic
                           approach to treating the dermatitis. Applying the organic oils or pastes is not the end of the healing process but is just
                           the beginning of natural cures for eczema. As much as we may not want it to look like a homeopathic treatment, the philosophy
                           of homeopathy of looking at every aspect of a patient's everyday living makes sense. This is mostly due to the fact that
                           triggers of dermatitis can come from any part of the person's life. Example is Neuro Dermatitis; it's a habitual itching
                           on one area of the body like the side of the neck, often triggered by anxiety; that causes skin thickening or lichenification
                           and discoloration. But aside from this type, other eczema that is worth noting is atopic or allergic contact dermatitis activated
                           by the family pet's dander and saliva. Animal
                           dander, dead skin and hair particles, and saliva of pets such as dogs, cats and birds can be present in the air breathe in
                           by a person who can be hypersensitive. The allergens in these substances are from the protein imprint these carry. Inhaled
                           or by accident orally exposed to, could activate the eczema. Natural cures for eczema like plant oils and other cures like
                           turmeric, nutmeg or oatmeal powder can be used to ease the symptoms but these are not enough. To totally reduce the exposure,
                           the considerations are either giving up your pet or follow this tips to reduce animal dander from your home. Bathe your pet on a regular basis like twice a week. Bathing reduces getting
                           the dander in the environment particularly in surface areas and air. From this tip alone, some people reduce their hypersensitivity
                           to animal dander. A clean environment is a safe haven
                           for eczema prone skin. Cleaning such as vacuuming or damp cloth wiping can eradicate the animal dander on surfaces and reduces
                           the spread of it in the air. To clean the air further, use an air purification system at home, in the part of the house the
                           pet has access. This can reduce or minimize the presence of the allergens. This third tip is controversial; the method is also used for other allergens such as peanuts; the desensitization
                           through gradual exposure to minimum amount of the substance, in this case, the pet shedding. Dermatologists and Allergists
                           alike warn of the potential harm from desensitization, because the immune systems reaction to each potential allergen; like
                           saliva or dander protein imprint can't be measured or that activation varies from one person to another. Invest in a good size indoor water fountain, it will serve as a natural
                           humidifier and air purifier. The negative ions from the fountain attract the positive ions from these microscopic shedding. Natural cures for eczema doesn't end with the
                           application of remedies but serves as the gateway to all facets of the disorder and how it can be totally resolved. All you
                           have to do is research and keep an open mind. Click on the following
                           link to learn about more natural cures for eczema . To learn more about a popular and informative guide to
                           beating eczema naturally check out this eczema free forever review . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Kevin_P_James 2010-05-12 Natural Cures For Eczema Could Be Your Best Hope For Clear Skin By Alexa Brownie If you are suffering from eczema, then you know the pain, discomfort and embarrassment that often come with
                           this skin condition. There are thousands of so-called treatments available which claims to cure eczema for good. All of these
                           treatments hide the symptoms but once you stop taking them the eczema returns and sometimes even worse than before. In other
                           words, these conventional methods of treatment can leave you "revolving your wheels" for years. Fortunately there are many natural cures that not only help relieve symptoms
                           associated with eczema, but can actually prevent it from happening again! It's very appealing because it's a natural
                           way of helping body deal with many problems with no side effects. Here
                           are some natural cures for eczema that may help to clear up your skin. 1. Avoid products with perfume Use
                           gentle products without fragrance or chemicals because this may cause a reaction to the skin. Some fragrance reactions take
                           place only when the skin is exposed to sunlight. 2.
                           Get a Filter for your Shower Having a shower
                           water filter to protect your skin from chlorine is an absolutely natural cure for eczema. The nasty chemicals and contaminants
                           such as chlorine and chloramines may prove to be too much for your skin to stand. 3. Maintain an Acid pH on the surface of your skin Eczema can easily be cured if you always maintain a mild acid pH on the surface of your skin. This helps to
                           make an unfriendly surrounding for bacteria to live, which in turn helps provide a radiant look to your skin. It is an important
                           part of any eczema natural cure. 4. Limit Sugar
                           Intake The bacteria that cause eczema flare-ups
                           thrive on sugar. Limit your intake of sugar, and you decrease the infection. It is also suggested not to eat food and fruit
                           loaded with carbohydrates as they will split down into glucose. 5. Get an Air Filter Use an
                           air filter and ensure that air travels freely in your home. Do not allow the air become too dry or this will easily aggravate
                           your eczema. 6. Wash Bedding Often Wash your sheets and clothes often in warm water to get rid of dust mites as these have been shown to be trigger eczema. 7. Wear Natural Fabrics Wear open-weave, loose-fitting
                           clothing that is made from natural fabrics such as cotton. It allows the skin to breathe more easily and reduces irritation. 8. Use Moisturizers Be sure to apply moisturizers
                           everyday to keep your skin moist and supple. Using natural cures for eczema such as keeping your skin hydrated will ensure
                           it does not get dry and will also help to offer you with relief so you can do not scratch the affected region. Now Pay Close Attention Here: Stop suffering from Eczema anymore, it is not a chronic disease and can be cured in just 2 weeks with the
                           help of natural remedies. If you really want to cure eczema , this is the most important blog you will ever read- Click Here . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Alexa_Brownie 2010-05-10 Eczema in Children - Why is This Chronic Skin Condition on the Increase Among Our Children? by Barbora Barnard Eczema, asthma, allergies and hay fever are all members
                           of one family and these horrible conditions are on the increase among the population of the developed countries. As many as
                           one in five children are suffering with one or more of the above conditions and sadly, the number is rising. Why? Our
                           environment, food, cosmetics and basically everything around us is getting more polluted with unnecessary chemicals. Children
                           are exposed to this toxic cocktail from the day they are born and their tiny bodies are not built to withstand this constant
                           onslaught. As a result, they start to show symptoms by developing either asthma, eczema, allergies or hayfever. Sometimes,
                           one is followed by another, or they may suffer with a combination of the above complaints. Let's talk about eczema here. It
                           is a persistent skin condition, which can make your child's life a misery. They will be itchy, sore and very irritable
                           as a result. I am well aware that unlike asthma, eczema
                           is not a life threatening condition, but it can really take over the life of the entire family. Your time will be consumed by non-stop moisturising, you will not be able to relax, as you will be always
                           checking whether your little one is scratching their skin, which they will, as the unbearable itch takes over! Sometimes they
                           will scratch so hard, that their skin will bleed. How
                           can you help? Exclusive breastfeeding for the first six
                           months of life is said to be beneficial in the fight against allergies, as most formula milks are made with cow's milk
                           and dairy products tend to be a major player in the development of eczema. Weaning is the next important step as far as allergies and eczema go, because this may be the time to discover
                           if your child has a reaction to a new food. When you are introducing a new food, give it to your child for three consecutive
                           days, as a reaction would be apparent within this time. Also,
                           it is not recommended to start weaning too early, because this could increase your child's chance of developing allergies,
                           as their digestive system is only designed to cope with milk until the age of six months, which is the current recommended
                           weaning age in the UK. If your child is older and they
                           are suffering with eczema, there is still a number of things you can do to help them. Remember, it is never too late to start
                           banishing eczema from your life. Start by eliminating
                           all unnecessary chemicals from their diet and any products that you are using for them, such as shampoos, bubble baths, soaps,
                           etc. The simpler the product, the fewer chemicals there are likely to be in it. Try to buy organic foods whenever possible,
                           alternatively make sure to scrub fruit and vegetables well and peel them. Make sure your child is eating a healthy wholesome diet and try to avoid too many sugary refined snacks. Find out what your child is allergic to by making an appointment at your
                           local complementary health clinic, they usually carry out non-invasive allergy test and you will be able to determine if your
                           child should not be eating a particular group of foods such as dairy, as I already mentioned earlier. Include a good quality vitamin and mineral supplement, as this will ensure that your child is receiving optimum
                           amount of the right nutrients in order for their body to start the healing process from within. My son used have dreadful eczema as a baby and it made our lives pretty miserable. To read about
                           how we cured it, look at http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Barbora_Barnard 2010-05-08 How
                           Does a Standard Treatment of Eczema Stack Up Against a Natural Treatment of Eczema? by Molly Conner There are two ways you can approach the problem of this skin condition. The first is the standard treatment of eczema,
                           and the second is the natural treatment of eczema. Eczema
                           is an extremely common condition today, and the amount of people that suffer from it has risen considerably over the last
                           30 years, and that trend shows no sign of slowing down. If
                           you have this skin condition then you will clearly want a way out of it. So I will provide you with some information about
                           the options available to you. Standard Treatment
                           of Eczema This comes in the form of prescribed
                           medications and drugs. This is the type of treatment that most people will first turn to when they discover that they have
                           this skin problem. The first thing that you need to understand
                           is that no medicine can actually cure eczema. This is a well documented fact, and if pressed, is not something that your doctor
                           will disagree with. The reason it is so difficult to
                           find a cure is that the actual symptoms of this skin condition can be down to many different factors, in different people.
                           This is why the difficulty arises in finding a medical cure. Trying to come up with a medication that is going to cater for
                           all the potential causes is virtually impossible. The
                           other problem is that medications can only treat the symptoms. A standard treatment of eczema does nothing to address the
                           cause of the problem. This means even if you do find a medication that can ease the symptoms, you will have to use it constantly
                           to keep the symptoms at bay. Another issue is that at
                           some point the medication will have the potential of side effects. This is especially true for eczema medications, as one
                           of the main ingredients are steroids. At some pint your
                           body will become accustomed to a particular medication. This means that you will probably have to move onto stronger medications,
                           increasing the risk of stronger side effects. Natural
                           Treatment of Eczema The trend for using natural
                           remedies has risen steeply over the last few years. This
                           has been mainly down to the ineffectiveness of many standard treatments of eczema. The advantage of natural treatments are
                           firstly there is no risk of side effects. Secondly, natural
                           treatments not only work in the short term to reduce symptoms, they also work in the long term by addressing the cause of
                           the problem. Thirdly they are very cost effective. The
                           continual use of medicines can become very costly. Natural treatments and ingredients are very easy to get hold of, and they
                           will not break the bank. Clearly there is a reason as
                           to why many people are foregoing a standard treatment of eczema in favour of natural treatments. Perhaps this is something
                           that you too should look at. Are you happy with your current
                           eczema treatment? If you are like most
                           sufferers, then the chances are that you are not getting a great deal from your current eczema treatment. Have you thought
                           of trying something different to try and cure eczema ? Find out how a natural treatment can help you to become Eczema Free Forever . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Molly_Conner 2010-05-05 What is Eczema? By Jane Boyd What exactly is eczema - the word? The meaning belonging to the Greek word eczema is "to boil over"
                           which as luck would have it describes completely how individuals inflicted by eczema feel! The steady desire to itch, the
                           sore, raw skin and the often awkward state of the skin makes the person feel very irritable, in addition to being continuously
                           uncomfortable. The word eczema can even be interchanged
                           with dermatitis. However dermatitis commonly implies the eczema is the result of contact with some form of substance or item.
                           So what exactly is eczema? Eczema is among the commonest skin disorders facing people. Those that suffer eczema will likely
                           be inflicted by some or all of the entire classic signs of eczema - dryness, redness, cracked and sore skin, skin flakiness,
                           unbearable itching and often they suffer from infections brought on by the endless want to itch. The commonest areas for the
                           rash to be found include the creases among the elbows and behind the knees, the scalp, the face (including eyelids), the buttocks
                           and the hands. Conversely, any area of the skin on the
                           body might be affected. So what's eczema and what effects does it bear on folks experiencing it? Eczema is absolutely
                           not a contagious skin rash by any means however, repeatedly, those that present with the signs or symptoms of eczema are made
                           to believe they are being ostracized by others who merely see a nasty looking skin rash and assume it has to be catching.
                           This treatment often leads to some decrease of self-worth as well as confidence, extremely impacting on a persons capacity
                           to lead a traditional life. The unmanageable want to itch, by and large turns the rash into fluid filled blisters that start
                           to weep and ooze. The outcome on the suffer of eczema
                           is far from enjoyable, the necessity to scratch feels great at first but it surely causes damaged skin and often exposed,
                           weeping, infected sores. Scientists think that eczema may very well be genetic or that you could be susceptible to eczema
                           if your mother and father or further close relations put up with eczema as well or endure the consequences of other allergies
                           such as asthma or hay fever. In these cases the shape of eczema is called atopic eczema. "Atopic" signifying the propensity to acquire allergic type conditions. A lot of sufferers of eczema
                           also suffer from additional allergies. In other cases sufferers might have eczema where there isn't any preceding family
                           history. Eczema could make life extremely miserable for the person suffering, nonetheless it does not have too! You can learn
                           more about eczema by visiting relieveeczema and discover some fantastic tips for seeking much need relief from
                           this irritating skin disorder. For more information about eczema,
                           the symptoms, signs and best treatments you should visit http://www.relieveeczema.com Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Jane_Boyd 2010-05-03 Eczema Causes - Why Do People Have Eczema? By Dugu Miko Eczema, which looks like
                           dermatitis or inflammation on the skin, is characterized by swollen, itchy and reddened skin. The look of it in a severe case
                           can be scary. The causes of this syndrome can vary between a number of health conditions like allergies, stress (physical
                           and / or mental), over using artificial substances in internal sections of body and environmental factors. This potentially
                           serious disease has some root causes. Understanding the root causes of Eczema can be quite similar to understanding how a
                           child turned into a criminal, or how a baby died, although sociological aspects are not relevant to this article. The main reasons of Eczema have a lot to do with the lack of nourishment
                           or caring about your body, and mainly the skin. Germs, toxins, pests, and bacteria are common sources that can cause inflammation
                           on the skin that is typical to Eczema. Undernourishment of the skin is an aggravating factor for germ or toxin infestation.
                           Germs and toxins tend to multiply its effect in the initial phases of Eczema due to lack of nutrients for the skin, and multiplies
                           too fast for one to start nourishing the skin once it has fallen prey to the disease. The causes of Eczema are not dependent on every unique biological factor which is different for every individual.
                           The causes are usually more general. Following
                           can be the reasons of suffering from Eczema Nutrient
                           intake A fully nourishing diet can make the
                           difference between two people's fate with regards to acquiring Eczema. Vitamins, minerals, amino acids, carbohydrate,
                           fluids and sunlight are essential nourishments for the skin, most of which comes from healthy food. A serious lack of any
                           of the components can result in skin malnourishment. Nutrition protects your health from the following invasions: Pollen
                           grains Artificial chemical influences Metal traces of aluminum, mercury Petrochemicals Various radiations
                           that are toxic It is also vital to realize that the tendency of being diagnosed with Eczema has often been associated with
                           continued intake of food that causes diarrhea, gastritis, heart diseases or ulcers. Eczema can be related to continuous intake
                           of rich food, laden with spices and calories. Excess intake of protein, lipids and fatty food can be possible causes of Eczema. Hormones and thyroid You are bound to feel a general uneasiness while you are experiencing hormone changes that affect functioning
                           of certain parts of the body. This change can sometimes be related to a future possibility of Eczema. Thyroid functioning
                           can go slack before Eczema strikes. Blood circulation may drastically decrease and cause the skin to receive less than 1/4th
                           of the required blood supply. As a result, abnormal hormone and thyroid responses to drugs, medication, environment or another
                           health condition can cause Eczema. Infections Eczema can be caused by an excess germ fighting tendency. As and when the
                           body is meant to fight infection from germs, toxins, bacteria and viruses, it grows its power to an optimal level through
                           natural adaptation. This mechanism can fault into over reaction, especially in cases of drastic change in stimuli. A common source of eczema is infections from the growth of Candida albicans
                           (or candidiasis), making the skin look like a bed of fungus. This is a syndrome which is known to be caused by excess intake
                           of artificial products such as sweeteners, antibiotics and other medical drugs. Toxin exposure Toxins may enter
                           the body through the digestive system, respiratory system or get absorbed by the skin. Facing toxins is a regular hazard which
                           we face in modern timed of industrial development. It is important that the skin gets enough compensatory nutrition to stay
                           protected against Eczema. The liver and kidney get congested due to toxin invasion. It is common for many with Eczema to have
                           liver and / or kidney malfunction. As a common trend, it is seen that the way out of the bodily congestion for these toxins
                           happens to be the skin. A collection of these exiting toxins find easy habitat on the skin causing symptoms of Eczema. On a general note Habits that are classified as bad are largely the known causes of Eczema. A fluctuating strength of the immune
                           system can also bring about the effects of a badly regulated system. Washing out your system is necessary to prevent infestation
                           of toxins and other harmful chemicals. The most important daily life activity is to drink lots of water which helps in washing
                           away a lot of harmful substances through excretion. Preventing Eczema under in a healthy environment is easy and takes just
                           a little effort to maintain good habits. You may also like
                           to check my sites about eczema psoriasis and eczema treatment . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Dugu_Miko 2010-04-29 What is the Cause of Eczema? Find Out to Eliminate Your Eczema Naturally Without Topical Steroids by
                           Barbora Barnard Causes
                           of eczema If you, or your child has eczema, you will
                           be only too familiar with what this chronic skin condition looks like. You will know only too well what the itch-scratch cycle
                           feels like. You will have experienced the red, sore, cracking and sometimes even weeping and oozing skin. You will be no stranger
                           to never ending moisturising routines, the stained greasy clothing and also the social stigma that this ghastly disease carries
                           with it. But, do you know what is causing your eczema? Eczema causes can be very different for different people. Sometimes, it
                           can be something as simple as changing your washing powder or cosmetics that you are using, but other times it can be a lot
                           more complex. The truth is, it is not always easy to
                           establish what is causing your eczema, but it is not impossible. Where
                           do you start? If you suspect that your eczema is caused
                           by food allergies, you could try to eliminate the most common culprits such as dairy products, eggs and citrus fruits, but
                           the truth of the matter is that it is possible to be allergic to just about anything including non food substances like moulds,
                           or house dust mites. The easiest way to start dealing
                           with your allergies is to seek professional advice through your local alternative therapy centre. They usually carry out painless non-invasive allergy tests with immediate results, so that you can start getting
                           to the root of the problem straight away. They will also
                           be able to advise you on the correct amount of vitamins and minerals to make sure that your body is receiving all the necessary
                           nutrients to enable it to start healing itself from within. So
                           remember, if you want to wave goodbye to your eczema and say hello to beautiful healthy skin, you need to get to the root
                           of the problem and find the true cause of your skin condition. My son used have
                           dreadful eczema as a baby and it made our lives pretty miserable. To read about how we cured it, look at http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Barbora_Barnard 2010-04-28 What Causes Eczema Revealed Through Clinical Research By Mark C. Young In this
                           article we shall discuss the underlying root cause of eczema. You will not hear this from any doctor or dermatologist as their
                           focus is always on the surface of the problem, and more specifically on "triggers". Triggers of eczema can be anything from chemicals to insect bites, and also clothing or even climate conditions.
                           But what triggers eczema is not equal to what actually causes eczema to appear. If triggers is not what causes eczema, then what is the real cause? In short, eczema comes about as a side-effect
                           of slow and constipated digestion. Usually the onset will be in early childhood as the child is exposed to the unnatural and
                           horrible food combinations of the westernized diet. Some
                           bodies will adjust and adept to this diet, and that's why the eczema problem sometimes disappear as the child grows older.
                           However, in many cases the problem will actually worsen. A
                           slow digestion will cause the food to harden inside the digestive system as water is extracted from it. Of course, this will
                           lead to even more digestive problems and constipation, and it's truly a vicious spiral to say the least. When the hardened
                           and dried up foodstuff is forced to move on it will wear down the protective layers of mucus lining inside the colon. The end result is that the lining of the digestive tract becomes sore and
                           inflamed. It no longer has the ability to protect the body from the daily load of toxins that run through the digestive tract.
                           A large amount of toxins will therefore be absorbed back into the bloodstream. This constant and daily overload of toxins in the bloodstream has to be expelled from the body somehow. So
                           naturally the body does what it normally does with excess toxins, it expels them through via the sweat and the skin. Eczema symptoms appear as a result of an overload of toxins being expelled
                           via the sweat and the skin. That is also the reason why eczema will often resemble a chemical burn. It actually is a chemical
                           burn. The overload of toxins that are expelled through the skin will burn away the layers of the skin in the process. The characteristic itch that goes along with most eczema is a result of
                           all the toxins causing the sensitive nerves to be irritated as the body expels them via the skin. It's not unusual to
                           observe small blisters filled with toxins appearing right before an eczema outbreak. That is also why the itch seems to be a bit deeper than the surface of the skin. It's like its really
                           itching from inside the skin, and it can be almost impossible to withstand the urge to scratch. Often the skin will break
                           apart and become oozing and red if you scratch. Mark Young was
                           part of a local research program that revealed what causes eczema, and how it can be cured permanently and naturally. Click
                           the link below to learn more: http://www.eczemacurenow.com/what-causes-eczema.php Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Mark_C._Young 2010-04-21 Natural Treatment for Eczema by Evelyn Lim If you have eczema, then you understand the level of
                           discomfort that the itch can cause you. There are many products on the grocery and pharmacy shelves that can help give you
                           get relief. aYou can also get a drug prescription from your doctor if you need a stronger relief product. Many people also
                           turn to a natural remedy for eczema when they have exhausted all other methods or want to supplement their eczema treatment
                           plan. Here are some options if you with to consider a natural treatment for eczema as well. You should always start out by keeping your skin moisturized. Moisturizing your skin is key to keeping your
                           skin itch and flare-up free. You should moisturize first thing in the morning and last thing at night to keep your skin supple
                           and moist and moisturize more often if you need it. The
                           best natural treatment for eczema is an emollient. An emollient comes in many forms including a cream, lotion, or oil. Find
                           the one that you enjoy the feel of or use them interchangeably. During the summer, you can even put your emollient into the
                           refrigerator to give yourself some cooling moisture when you apply it. An oatmeal bath is an excellent natural treatment for eczema that also helps to relax you. Colloidal oatmeal
                           baths, such as the one made by Aveeno, or one made of rolled oats from the grocery are great for calming inflamed, itchy skin.
                           Such baths are easy to make. All you need to do is add one or two cups of oatmeal to your lukewarm water and then get in.
                           If you are really itchy, then you will want to add more oats to the bath. After getting out of the bath, you need to use a
                           moisturizer on your damp skin for keeping the moisture in your skin. You can control your itch with this recipe for natural treatment for eczem as well. Mix one-teaspoonful of
                           comfrey root, one-teaspoon of slippery elm bark, one-teaspoon of white bark, and two cups of water together in a bowl. Boil
                           the mixture for approximately thirty-five minutes and then allow it to cool. Use this mixture as a skin wash and wash the
                           affected skin with it. It may not completely remove the itch, but it will decrease it dramatically. Blueberry leaves are an ingredient that you can look for in lotion form. They are said to be helpful at relieving
                           eczema related inflammation and helping the itch. Another
                           excellent natural treatment for eczema is Vitamin E. You can soothe the affected area with Vitamin E cream or consume Vitamin
                           E supplements. There are many more options for natural
                           treatment for eczema that you can try. A natural treatment for eczema is generally safe; but you should do sufficient research
                           before embarking on any chosen one. Evelyn Lim reviews natural eczema treatment products and therapies on her blog. She has been suffereing
                           from eczema for more than 30 years. Read about her journey to getting beautiful skin here at www.eczemaskintreatment.com Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Evelyn_Lim 2010-04-19 Home Remedies For Eczema - Cure For Eczema That Works by Barbora Barnard You have been to your GP and been prescribed topical steroids as well as a load of moisturisers in order to manage your
                           problem dry skin and to keep your eczema under control. You
                           have been told that there is no cure for this chronic condition, but not to worry, it would probably disappear on it's
                           own in time. So do you wonder, why your eczema
                           is still making your life a misery and does not seem to be going anywhere? And is there anything you can do at home to help yourself? Yes, there is. There is quite a lot you can do to cure your eczema from the comfort of your own home
                           by making some simple changes to your lifestyle and products you use. Home remedies for eczema 1)
                           You need to find out what is causing your eczema. It could be a number of different things. The easiest things to eliminate
                           are washing powders and harsh cosmetics, as you can change these to simple unperfumed varieties, which are available to buy
                           from most supermarkets. 2) Allergies and intolerances
                           often contribute towards eczema and finding out what you are allergic or intolerant to can be a major step towards curing
                           your eczema. To have allergy testing carried out, make an appointment at your local complementary therapy centre. Details
                           of these can be found on the internet. 3) You
                           need to ensure that you have a really good diet full of fruit and vegetables and also include simple wholesome home cooking.
                           Avoid artificial additives and E-numbers, as they do not add any nutritious value to your food. 4) Include a high quality vitamin/ mineral supplement to ensure that your body is not lacking any
                           nutrients it needs, as this could also be allowing the eczema to thrive. 5) Moisturise your skin with simple unperfumed oils such as grape seed oil, which is widely available
                           from supermarkets. Oils allow your skin to breathe, unlike thick creams, which can clog up your pores making you hotter and
                           itchier. Always apply directly after having a shower or a bath to lock the moisture in. The above is not an exhaustive list of home remedies for eczema, as eczema is a complex condition
                           and the causes vary from person to person, but it could be a start to your new healthy skin. My son used have dreadful eczema as a baby and it made our lives pretty miserable. To read about
                           how we cured it, look at http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Barbora_Barnard 2010-04-16 Eczema Natural Cures - 2 Alternative
                           Cures That Really Work! By Cristina Chase There are many types and causes of eczema.
                           Atopic Eczema is a type of hereditary skin dermatitis causing skin inflammation, dryness and persistent itching leading to
                           excessive scratching which only aggravates the problem leading to an infection. Conventional treatment includes corticosteroids
                           to help deal with the inflammation but not as a permanent cure or prevention method. Fortunately, eczema natural cures can
                           successfully heal this skin disorder while also providing fast pain relief. By understanding the root causes of eczema,
                           you can help restore back your health naturally without having to rely on prescription medication and their nasty side effects. Main
                           Root Causes of Eczema: - Food Allergies - Contact with Chemicals That React With Your Skin ( found in
                           common household products, cosmetics, soaps, bubble baths, metals, pollutants) - Heredity - Stress - A weak
                           immune system - Deficiency of essential fatty acids - Candidiasis TREATMENT Eczema
                           Natural Cures: Lactobacillus Acidophilus Big words but what it is - is natural yogurt which contains "live
                           cultures". Natural yogurt contains live bacteria and when eaten daily helps promote the growth of good bacteria which
                           in turn helps strengthen the immune system and build resistance to common illnesses. Candida overgrowth can be a trigger of
                           eczema, this overgrowth can easily be balanced when probiotic yogurt is consumed on a daily basis. Those on antibiotics beware
                           that antibiotics kill off good bacteria promoting the overgrowth of yeast. Both adults and babies should eat probiotic yogurt
                           daily ( make sure that it clearly states that the yogurt contains "live cultures" and is unsweetened) to help cure
                           eczema naturally. Eczema Natural Cures: Herbal Baths Certain herbs can help soothe skin inflammation,
                           itching and redness caused by eczema while also relieving tension. Excellent herbs that promote skin healing are: chamomile,
                           lavender or oatmeal. These can be used separately or together by adding them to warm bath and soaking up your skin for up
                           to 20 minutes or longer but avoid excessive bathing and very hot water. Other Recommendations: A
                           great way to help you relax and manage stress is to drink herbal tea in particular camomile or peppermint tea but avoid caffeine
                           and sugar as these work the opposite way - they can trigger stress. Curing eczema can prove to be a challenge. However,
                           new research has shown that an all Natural Eczema Cure has proven very successful in eliminating eczema in as little as 10 Days. Read more about
                           it by visiting Eczema Treatment . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Cristina_Chase 2010-04-14 Holistic Eczema Cure By Barbora Barnard Eczema is a chronic skin condition for
                           which there is no cure. The best you can do
                           is to manage your skin by applying loads of emollients and getting flare-ups under control by using topical steroids. Or is it? Can it possibly be just the view of traditional medicine and in fact there is such a thing as a cure?
                           I believe that with holistic approach there is a cure, but it is not a pill you pop or a lotion you smear on your skin and
                           your eczema is gone. It is much more complex than that. Eczema
                           needs to be approached from the inside as well as from the outside, as diet and allergies often play a major part in eczema.
                           Harsh cosmetics and detergents can aggravate the condition as can pollens, dust and mould spores. Stress is also said to worsen
                           the condition. It can be very difficult to determine which factors are contributing towards your eczema, but not impossible. How does eczema affect your life? If you are living with this miserable condition, you know that it can literally rule your life especially
                           if your particular eczema is severe. Apart from the obvious itching and scratching, your confidence and self esteem can be
                           low especially if your face is affected and your social life suffers, as you would rather cover up and hide at home. But you
                           do not have to carry on the way you are now, because you can change your life for the better - starting today. So what can you do to begin your journey to beautiful glowing skin
                           and full health? Immediately stop using harsh detergents and cosmetics. Instead buy plain soap and go for sensitive
                           eco-friendly washing powders. Avoid fabric conditioners as these can also worsen the symptoms of eczema. Moisturise your skin
                           with natural oil, such as grape seed oil, as oil allows your skin to breathe. Make an appointment at an allergy testing clinic and eliminate foods and substances which you are
                           allergic or intolerant to from your diet and surroundings. See a medical professional to ensure that your vitamin and mineral
                           needs are being met adequately and include a good quality vitamin and mineral supplement in your diet. Avoid E-numbers and artificial additives in general and instead
                           replace them with simple, wholesome home cooking and include plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables. You could invest in a juicer, as fresh raw juices are one of the easiest ways for your body to absorb
                           the vitamins and minerals it needs. And finally,
                           enjoy plenty of exercise and fresh air as a part a healthy lifestyle, which will also help to relieve stress. Good luck with your eczema cure. My son used have
                           dreadful eczema as a baby and it made our lives pretty miserable. To read about how we cured it, look at http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Barbora_Barnard 2010-04-09 Holistic Treatment Eczema - 5 Natural Remedies By Joel Carr If you are an eczema sufferer, you'll
                           know how much irritation this disorder can cause you. Pharmacies and supermarkets stock many products which can assist in
                           the relief. Although it is possible to get a drug prescription from your doctor, many people turn to a holistic treatment
                           for eczema once they've tried every other formula or prefer to use an all natural eczema treatment plan. Here are some
                           proven natural treatments for eczema which you may find very useful, or in some cases. 5 NATURAL REMEDIES MOISTURIZE
                           YOUR SKIN - Always begin by ensuring your skin is moisturized. Skin moisturization is the secret to keeping your skin itch
                           free and free of red marks. Always moisturize your body at least twice a day - first thing in the morning and last thing at
                           night. If you feel your skin needs another application, go ahead and top up during the day. EMOLLIENT - The most effective natural treatment for eczema is an emollient. An emollient comes in
                           various forms such as a cream, lotion, or oil. Emollient has the power to sooth and soften the skin. On hot days, it is a
                           good idea to put your emollient into the refrigerator, this will give it more of an impact as it will cool as well as sooth
                           when you apply it. NATURAL SKIN WASH - You'll
                           be able to control your itch with this formula for natural skin wash for eczema. Ingredients include: one-teaspoon of white
                           bark, one-teaspoonful of comfrey root, one-teaspoon of slippery elm bark, and two cups of water. Boil the ingredients together
                           for half an hour and then let it cool. Now you can wash the affected skin with this skin wash. It may not entirely get rid
                           of the itch, but it will lessen the effects significantly. OATMEAL
                           BATH - Oatmeal baths consist of readily available rolled oats from the grocery store. These baths are outstanding for settling
                           down inflamed, itchy skin. An oatmeal bath is a superior holistic treatment for eczema that of course helps to destress you.
                           Oatmeal baths are simple to prepare. Just add one cup of oatmeal to your bath water and then get in. Try not to have
                           the water too hot, but more like a nice warm bath. If your skin is experiencing severe itch, then you'll need to add more
                           oats to the bath. Remember you need to moisturize immediately after your bath to maintain the moisture in your skin. VITAMIN E, VITAMIN E & MORE VITAMIN E : Another excellent holistic
                           treatment for eczema is Vitamin E. You can apply Vitamin E moisturizers to your skin, but more importantly you need to consume
                           foods high in Vitamin E. The best foods are broccoli, almonds, peanut butter, spinach, kiwi fruit and mango. In that respect the are a lot more alternatives for natural holistic
                           treatment for eczema that you can try. Natural treatments for eczema are generally safer than medical alternatives such as
                           steroid creams and medication. Remember, eczema does not have to rule your life! For more information on natural eczema treatment, visit my website : http://www.squidoo.com/eczema-treatement Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Joel_Carr 2010-04-07 Eczema Holistic Treatment - Alternative Eczema Treatment Methods By Ryan K Lim Eczema holistic treatment can help relieve and cure your eczema problems efficiently.
                           Unlike medical approach, holistic treatment will not leave you any side effects. For this reason, holistic treatment has gained
                           extreme popularity in recent years as more and more people choose holistic treatment over medical treatment. 1. Holistic Treatment Several examples of holistic treatment are acupuncture and juice therapy. Acupuncture has been used
                           since ancient Chinese to cure various health problems. Some health problems that can be treated using acupuncture are but
                           not limited to are asthma, arthritis, liver, lung problems and more. Juice therapy is another therapy that is very popular in treating eczema, blueberry juice has been
                           reported to effectively cure eczema. 2. Alternative
                           Eczema Treatment Outside several eczema holistic
                           treatments mentioned above, there are another several alternatives you can use such as natural herbal remedy. They have same
                           effects in curing eczema and provide no side effect at all. 3. Moisturizer Using moisturizer
                           can help relieve and cure your eczema. You can use your moisturizer at any time as long as suitable. It might be a good advice
                           to bring your moisturizer wherever you can as you never know the moisture condition outside. Using a moisturizer every time after taking a bath can also be beneficial to your skin preventing
                           eczema. Conclusion Eczema holistic treatment
                           has been known as effective cure that give free side effect result. Some examples of holistic treatments for eczema are acupuncture
                           and juice therapy. Blueberry juice is one example that has proven to be effective in relieving eczema symptom. Other alternatives are herbal eczema remedy. A moisturizer also
                           helps a lot in preventing and curing eczema no matter what is the cause of your eczema whether heredity or allergic. If you are looking for a natural eczema cure , I highly recommend Janet Simpson Cure Your Eczema guide. Learn how to stop your eczema problems within 14
                           days. Article
                           Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Ryan_K_Lim 2010-03-26 What Is Eczema? What Does Eczema Look Like? Eczema is a non-contagious skin condition, which makes your skin
                           really sore and itchy and makes it look very red and sometimes it can even bleed. It can also be called dermatitis and about
                           1 in 5 children and 1 in 12 adults in the UK suffer with it. There are numerous types of eczema and the severity of the condition
                           also varies greatly. Types of Eczema - Atopic eczema: This type of eczema runs in families and these
                           families may also suffer with asthma and hay fever. The eczema tends to be triggered by allergens in what we eat or products
                           that we use and it seems to be long lasting. It mostly affects babies and young children, but adults can suffer with it too. - Contact eczema: Skin comes into contact with an allergen and this will produce a local reaction - itchy skin in that
                           particular place. - Seborrheic eczema: Mainly affects the scalp, but can also appear on the face and neck, it is sometimes
                           called cradle cap in children and dandruff in adults. - Gravitational (varicose or stasis) eczema: It is most common
                           in older women, especially if you have poor circulation, varicose veins or have had a blood clot and it affects the lower
                           legs. - Dyshidrotic (pompholyx) eczema: Itchy blisters that affect hands and feet. - Nummular (discoid) eczema:
                           Itchy coin shaped discs that appear on arms, trunk and legs and tend to become crusty and infected. -Asteaotic Eczema:
                           Nearly always affects people over 60, mainly appears on the shins and looks like crazy paving. Causes of Eczema Scientists
                           believe that it is related to an overactive response of our immune system to an irritant. There are various triggers, which
                           can start the vicious itch- scratch cycle in susceptible people. These triggers include dust, pollen,chemicals,cosmetics,climate
                           changes, synthetic fibres and last but not least food allergies/ intolerances. Eczema Treatment Doctors
                           currently believe there is no cure for eczema, that it can only be managed. By that they mean mainly moisturising routines
                           and the use of steroid creams to clear up flare-ups. But read on and you'll see that I believe there are other options. Food Allergies/ Intolerances and Eczema As I said earlier, this condition affects a big percentage of the population not just in the UK,
                           but worldwide and the problem seems to be getting bigger. My son had severe eczema when he was little and his was partially
                           caused by food allergies. It took me two years to cure his eczema, but it was well worth it. The time, when his eczema was
                           at its most severe, must have been one of the most difficult times of my life. The constant itch- scratch cycle, the never
                           ending moisturising routines, the sleepless nights, etc... It really made our lives truly miserable. I Know How You Feel I also used to suffer with eczema, so I really do know how you feel, as I've had plenty of personal
                           experience. But the truth of the matter is that you don't need to keep on suffering. It is possible to take your health
                           into your own hands and really start helping yourself towards a much happier and healthier eczema free life. Which Foods Cause Eczema If you think your eczema is caused by food allergies, there is a number of things you can do. First,
                           you need to eliminate the foods, then you need to replace them with a simple healthy wholesome diet with plenty of fresh fruit
                           and vegetables, include a high quality vitamin/mineral formula, make sure you get lots of sleep and exercise and try not get
                           stressed! I hope this is useful and good luck
                           with your eczema. My name is Barbora Barnard and I used to suffer
                           with eczema. But it was my son's severe eczema that made our lives truly miserable. If you think your eczema could be caused by food allergies and you like my article, check out my
                           website: http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ and see if you could be on your way to eczema free life. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Barbora_Barnard What is Eczema? Eczema is very common, about 1 in 10 people worldwide will suffer
                           with the condition at some point in their life. It is a group of skin conditions, sometimes also called dermatitis, where
                           your skin is very dry, flaky, itchy and becomes inflamed. The severity of eczema varies greatly from person to person and
                           any part of your body can be affected. There are many types of eczema, but the most common is atopic eczema. This type of
                           eczema could be caused by allergic reactions to either foods or substances and runs in families. Usually other people in the
                           same family will suffer with other allergic conditions such as asthma or hayfever. What Causes Eczema? Doctors
                           don't really know what causes eczema, but they think that in people with eczema it is the reaction of their immune system
                           to an allergen. There are lots of triggers, which can be the start of your eczema, or worsen the condition. These triggers
                           include some fabrics, cosmetics, changes in temperature, animal dander, dust mites, household cleaning products and also allergies. Eczema Allergies People can be allergic to pretty much anything from foods, creams and cleaning products to substances
                           such as grass or tree pollens. As I said earlier, allergies tend to run in families, but there is no telling who will be allergic
                           to what. Some of the most common allergens causing eczema include dairy products, eggs, citrus fruits, nuts, yeast, seafood,
                           shellfish and wheat in the food category and grass pollen coming into contact with the skin. What Can You Do? There
                           are a lot of alternative clinics that carry out allergy testing and that is a good start. If you suffer with eczema, you definitely
                           need to eliminate foods/ substances that you are allergic to and you should start seeing an improvement. On top of that you
                           need to make sure that you are eating a really healthy diet with lots of fresh fruit and vegetables. Your body needs minerals
                           and vitamins in the right quantities, so may want to use a good quality supplement. Exercise and fresh air are always good
                           for you and they will certainly improve the way you feel overall. Also keeping your skin well moisturised will help to soothe
                           the irritation. My son used to suffer with dreadful eczema
                           when he was little and I remember that time as very difficult. If you want to find out how I cured his eczema, visit http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Barbora_Barnard What is Eczema Dermatitis? Eczema, which is also known as dermatitis describes a range of
                           skin conditions. The symptoms can vary quite a lot from person to person and they include red, itchy skin, which can blister,
                           swell, crust, flake, crack, bleed and ooze. The
                           itching can be unbearable and it is the subsequent scratching that causes the most damage to the skin. The Most Common Types of Eczema The most common type of eczema is atopic eczema, which mostly affects babies and young children.
                           It often runs in families, who may also suffer with other allergic conditions such as hayfever or asthma. The skin is very
                           itchy and the child will be uncomfortable and irritable. Another
                           type of eczema is contact dermatitis, which appears after the affected person has been in contact with an allergen or irritant.
                           These include detergents, nickel, poison ivy or perhaps wet cement. Seborrheic eczema is another type of eczema, which affects mainly the scalp and can also spread to the face,
                           neck and sometimes other parts of the body. Pompholyx
                           eczema is blistering on hands and feet, which causes itching and burning and can be combined with other types of eczema on
                           other parts of the body. There are other types
                           of eczema, but they are less common. Causes
                           of Eczema Depending on the type of eczema, the
                           causes also vary. It can be caused by plant pollens, detergents, animal dander, house dust mites, food allergies, cosmetics
                           and some fabrics. Treatment It is possible to eliminate eczema, if you can find out what is
                           triggering your eczema. There are complementary clinics, which carry out allergy tests, so this is a good place to start.
                           Combined with that, you need to have a good wholesome diet without unnecessary chemicals. As always fresh fruit and vegetables
                           should be included daily and also a multivitamin/ mineral supplement is useful. Try not to get stressed, as stress is particularly bad for eczema. Sleep well, exercise regularly
                           and get plenty of fresh air and you should be on your way to a healthier skin. My son used to suffer with severe eczema, but with a fair amount of work, we managed to completely cure it.
                           Read the full story at http://www.cure-eczema.co.uk/ . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=