
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:27:10 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 10:21:56 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Valerian Dosage eMedTV Sitemap Insomnia Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Insomnia Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Insomnia Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Insomnia Articles Video eMedTV Video Insomnia Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Insomnia Insomnia Treatment Insomnia Causes Ambien Lunesta Rozerem Sonata Ambien CR Ambien Side Effects Halcion Restoril Melatonin Valerian Passion Flower Tryptophan Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Valerian Dosage Although valerian dosing guidelines are not fully established, information can be obtained from clinical trials and practical experience with the supplement. For treating insomnia, doses of 300 to 900 mg are sometimes recommended. You may need to adjust your valerian dosage based on what works for you. Keep in mind that it could take up to a month for valerian to start working. Valerian Extract Information Valerian Dosage: An Introduction It is important to note that unlike medications, for which the standard doses have been well established, there is less information for determining the best dose for supplements, including valerian . What Is a Reasonable Valerian Dose? Some information about valerian dosing can be obtained from clinical studies and from practical experience with the supplement. For insomnia , doses of 300 mg to 900 mg of valerian extract are sometimes recommended. It is best to try it at night first, 30 minutes to two hours before bedtime. If you find that it does not work quickly enough for you, then you may try taking it a little earlier in the evening. There is some evidence that valerian may take a while -- sometimes as long as a month -- to start working in some people. There is not enough evidence to recommend a valerian dosage for any other use, such as for anxiety . Because there is little strong evidence to guide you in your choice of a valerian dosage, a good plan is to start with a reasonable dose and see how your body reacts to it. If you find that you are groggy in the morning and have trouble getting up, or if you are experiencing other valerian side effects , you may need to try a lower dose. If it seems to be working a little, but not quite well enough, you may want to try a higher dose, but not more than that recommended on the label. A safe maximum valerian dose has not yet been established. Valerian Dosage Article Continues on Next Page > Advertisement Do Any Foods Help with Depression? Do Any Natural Depression Treatments Work? How Do Healthcare Providers Test for Depression? How Long Will My Depression Last? Is Depression Different for Men? What Are the Signs of Depression in Men? What Are the Physical Signs of Depression? What Are the Warning Signs of Depression? What Herbs or Supplements Work for Depression? List of references (click here) Jellin JM, editor. Pharmacist's Letter/Prescriber's Letter Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Available at: http://naturaldatabase.com/. Accessed January 10, 2008. Office of Dietary Supplements. National Center for Complimentary and Alternative Medicine. National Institutes of Health. Questions and answers about valerian for insomnia and other sleep disorders (April 2006). NCCAM Web site. Available at: http://dietary-supplements.info.nih.gov/factsheets/valerian.asp. Accessed January 10, 2008. Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD Advertisement Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation Valerian Benefits of Valerian Does Valerian Work? Valerian Safety Valerian Side Effects Valerian Drug Interactions Valerian Overdose Valerian and Pregnancy Valerian and Breastfeeding Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t