<http://www.soma-fioricet.info/?p=45>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Muscle Relaxants and Other Remedies to Relieve Pain «  Soma and Fioricet Information Soma and Fioricet Information Soma Fioricet Articles, reviews, prices compare, buyers guide Home Categories Alternative Medicine Conditions and Diseases Arthritis Prescription Drugs Uncategorized Muscle Relaxants and Other Remedies to Relieve Pain February 12, 2010 by: admin While a torn muscle can be quite horrible and can have an enormous effect on your day-to-day life, you can do some things to help the symptoms of the torn muscle. As is the case with many medical issues, if you have severe pain, it is wise to talk with your physician to make sure that there is not a more serious underlying condition. If you have a torn muscle, you may want to try some of these remedies. They are simple and safe and can help relieve some of the pain and swelling associated with the torn muscle. If you suffer from a torn muscle, it is always wise to take over the counter pain medications like Tylenol or ibuprofen . They will help relieve some of the pain and swelling caused by the torn muscle. If you are experiencing severe pain, it would be wise to seek medical attention so that more potent pain and anti-inflammatory medications can be prescribed for you. If you prefer not to visit your physician, it is possible to purchase Naproxen over the counter. As an anti-inflammatory drug, it can treat the swelling and inflammation in the affected area. In addition, you may find more suitable relief when you use aspirin or other pain relievers, unless you find that over the counter meds are not helping with the pain. When you have a torn muscle, you may want to consult with your physician. He/She may prescribe muscle relaxant medications. While muscle relaxants usually do not eliminate the inflammation, they do help the torn muscle relax, enabling it to heal more quickly. Usually muscle relaxant medications help to relieve some of the pain, as they encourage blood flow to the muscles and that increases the supply of oxygen in the bloodstream and helps relieve the stiffness and soreness that characterize a torn muscle. A prescription is required in order to obtain muscle relaxant medications , but they are truly helpful in relieving pain, helping you feel more comfortable so that you can sleep, and enabling you to move around more easily. As is the case with many medications, you should avoid driving or operating other machinery when taking muscle relaxants because they can cause dizziness and drowsiness. Ice and heat therapy can be beneficial for torn muscles as well. Frequently ice and heat therapy are recommended right after the tear occurs and for a few days thereafter. When ice therapy is utilized, the recommendation is to use the ice for 20 minutes at a time throughout the day. You can use the ice therapy as often as you feel necessary; just remember to apply it for 20 minutes and then leave it off for 20 minutes. If your muscle is torn, one of the best things you can do is to rest. Of course, this seems obvious, but many people forget that torn muscles occur as a result of overdoing it or pressuring the body to do more than it should. The best treatment for a torn muscle is rest. This allows the torn muscle a chance to recover and heal and eliminates the chance that further injury or tearing will occur. It will also be necessary to exercise torn muscles so that they do not weaken and lose mass. Your doctor may recommend physical therapy to help you recover more quickly and make sure that the torn muscle does not result in loss of muscle function. Even though you are supposed to be resting, you should still move the torn muscle each day. That will help it heal more quickly and reduce the possibility of losing muscle mass or bone density which can both occur if a muscle is not used for a long time. For severely torn muscles, water therapy may be utilized. This will help promote healing and reduce inflammation. This is something else that can be tried instead of taking medications. Filed under: Prescription Drugs Tags: torn muscle , treat inflammation , treat swelling Comments Off Comments are closed. Tags alternative methods analgesics aromatherapy back pain Butalbital buy tramadol Carisoprodol chronic headaches Chronic Pain cluster headaches depression drugs factors fioricet fioricet online fioricet without prescription headache journal headache pain headache patterns headaches herbal therapies manage pain muscle relaxation muscle spasms no prescriptions online pharmacy pain impulse pain relief part of aging pharmacist pharmacy prescription prevent and relieve migraines recurring migraines relieve migraine headache sinus headaches stress support of blood vessels tension headache tension headaches torn muscle treat inflammation treat swelling vascular headaches without a prescription Recent Posts Combination Therapy May Be Best for Treating Tension Headaches Buy tramadol hcl Pain Management Primer Amanda Marie. Part 2 Amanda Marie. Part 1 Blogroll Buy Fioricet Online Cheap Soma Fioricet Overnight Indian Soma, Carisoprodol 350mg Soma Next Day Soma Overnight Delivery Categories Alternative Medicine Arthritis Conditions and Diseases Prescription Drugs Uncategorized - © Copyright 2009 - Soma and Fioricet Informati