
ADA - EBD::Plain Language Summary Detail What is EBD | About Us Key Words Plain Language Summaries ADA.ORG Patient Resources For the Dental Professional Home > Plain Language Summaries > Cariology and Caries Management > Fluoride varnish applied twice a year helps prevent tooth decay Share Print Email Fluoride varnish applied twice a year helps prevent tooth decay Plain Language Summary Prepared by:
                    James Zahrowski DMD, MS, PharmD; Arthur Jeske DMD, PhD A Plain Language Summary of: Fluoride varnish in the prevention of dental caries in children and adolescents: a systematic review Azarpazhooh A, Main PA. Hawaii Dental Journal. 2009;40(1):6-7 This summary is published in the Journal of the American Dental Association and can be accessed at :- Background Key terms Fluoride: (pronounced floor-ide) This mineral can help prevent tooth decay (cavities). Fluoride varnish: a liquid, containing fluoride, that is painted onto the teeth and hardens. Tooth decay: Tooth decay is a hole in the tooth caused by the acid in plaque. It is also called a "cavity." (plaque is a thin layer of bacteria that forms on your teeth all the time). Fluoride helps repair damage caused by tooth decay.  Because fluoride varnishes coat teeth and harden on them, they also can protect teeth from future damage. The authors of this review wanted to see if fluoride varnish helped prevent tooth decay in children and teens who tend to have a lot of cavities. The authors looked at seven studies that involved 4,227 children and teenagers.  Most of these children or teens were at high risk of tooth decay. The studies compared the amount of tooth decay that developed over time in groups that had fluoride varnish with groups that did not. Authors' findings The authors found that the children and teens who had fluoride varnish applied to their teeth twice a year had less tooth decay than the children who did not.  They also said that sealants, toothbrushing and good nutrition should be used to help prevent tooth decay. Conclusions Fluoride varnish, applied twice a year, may help prevent tooth decay in children and teens.  Sealants, toothbrushing and good nutrition also should be used as preventive measures. Plain Language Summary Published Date: 6/28/2011 hide This document is a Plain Language Summary, a user-friendly version of a technical
                        scientific article that provides a simple translation of specific research findings.
                        It does not express, imply or summarize standards of care for treatment. Dentists
                        and patients together must determine what treatment is best based on the dentist's
                        clinical judgment and the patient's needs and preferences. For more about oral health,
                        to find a dentist or for general questions about dental treatment and conditions,
                        visit ADA.org.© 2012 American Dental Association. Rate This Plain Language Summary How useful was this summary Not useful Slightly useful Moderately useful Very useful Extremely useful How will you use this summary? Make your selection I will use it to make a decision about my dental care I will show it to my dentist I will show it to my dental care insurance provider I will use this for my own personal use How could this summary be improved? Enter Text OVERVIEW Question Reviewers Asked: Does fluoride varnish prevent tooth decay in children and teens who tend to get cavities? Answer: Yes, fluoride varnish, painted onto teeth twice a year, seems to prevent tooth decay in children and teens who have a high risk of developing cavities. RELATED RESOURCES ADA.org Oral Health Topics Cochrane Consumer Network Systematic Review Abstract in PubMed Critical Summary ADA Glossary of Terms Close Link opens in separate window. Pop-up Blocker may need to be disabled. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | ADA.org Copyright © 2012 American Dental Association. Reproduction or republication strictly prohibited without prior written permission. This EBD Web site is supported by a grant from the National Library of Medicine
                and the National Institute for 