
Diabetes HOME OUR PRODUCTS HEALTHNOTES & NEWS PRODUCT SEARCH VITAMINLADY BLOG SHOPPING CART MY ACCOUNT ORDER HISTORY THE VITAMIN LADY IS YOUR 
        TRUSTED ONLINE VITAMIN SOURCE PAY LESS FOR VITAMIN, LIQUID VITAMINS AND SUPPLEMENTS THE VITAMIN LADY'S OWN selection of vitamins, supplements & herbs. Quality and Satisfaction guaranteed. GET EXPERT ONLINE 
        ADVICE 24/7 WITH HEALTHNOTES ONLINE 
        DISCOUNTS UP TO 40% OFF FREE SHIPPING WITH ORDERS OF $75**, conditions 
        apply Speed - your order usually ships same day Privacy - your information is never shared or sold to others Trust - advocate for Natural Health since 1979 Respect - no pop-ups or irrelevant advertising Heath Areas of Concern ● Women's Health ● Men's Health ● Children's Health ● Stress Management ● Ayurvedic Herbs ● Cancer ● Omega 3 Fatty Acid ● Gluten Free ● Diet Supplements ● Health by Body System ● Healthy Weight Loss ● First Aid ● Holistic Health ● Fitness Supplements ● Sleep Concerns ● Bone & Joint Health ● Heart Health ● Aging Well A to Z Indexes ● H ealth 
Conditions ● Vitamin, Minerals, Herbs ● Homeopathy by Condition ● Homeopathy by Remedy ● Supplement Interactions ● Medications Food Guide ● Healthy 
Recipes ● Eating Healthy ● Modified Diets Tell your 
friends about Vitamin Lady and watch the Product Credits in roll in! Blood Sugar, cinnamon, diabetes, natural diabetes treatment, vitamin lady writes about diabetes, glycose management DIABETES: Sweet
                                Surrender by Lynn Hinderliter CN,
                                LDN Find
                                      the recommended supplements here Diabetes is not JUST
                              diabetes. It is being overweight, having heart
                              trouble, ageing too quickly - cancer loves sugar -
                              imbalanced blood sugar is one of the main reasons
                              for general ill health, and knowing our blood
                              sugar levels means we can sensibly address the
                              problem before it becomes serious. Diabetes is a major problem in
                              America, affecting an estimated 10 million people,
                              and is increasing worldwide. There are two types
                              of diabetes, one in which the pancreas has ceased
                              production of insulin altogether (and in fact, the
                              cells that produce it are often found to be
                              destroyed), and the other in which the cells of
                              the body have become insulin resistant - as
                              explained in my article on Insulin
                              Resistance , this
                              means that blood sugar cannot be conveyed into the
                              cells, with a consequent rise in both blood sugar
                              and insulin levels. This latter form of diabetes is
                              the more common, and is almost always connected
                              with obesity, more than 80% of those affected
                              being overweight. Nutritionists now believe that
                              obesity is the  common factor in the increase
                              of many  chronic diseases in the United
                              States, despite the extraordinary fact that there
                              are the number of overweight people is increasing
                              at the same time a Health Club a day opens, and
                              people are eliminating fat from their diets with
                              almost religious fervor. Blood
                                      sugar problems begin with
                                      carbohydrate-driven "insulin
                                      resistance", a reaction in the body
                                      which prevents insulin from docking with
                                      its receptor sites in our cells. Insulin is a hormone, a
                              messenger in our body, and it is released by the
                              pancreas to help cope with high levels of sugar in
                              the blood. Its role is to stimulate the cells to
                              capture sugar from the blood, and either burn it
                              for energy as needed then and there, or produce a
                              storage forms of carbohydrate called glycogen.
                              When the cells are blocked from accepting insulin,
                              it is left free in the blood where it cannot
                              perform its function of lowering blood sugar
                              levels, and the pancreas is therefore stimulated
                              to produce more insulin. This leads to a condition
                              called Hyperinsulemia , which in turn can
                              lead to diabetes and heart disease. Where previously alarms were
                                triggered only when blood sugar levels rose over
                                125, now new research suggests that patients
                                with high levels of blood sugar in the
                                non-diabetic range face a substantial risk of
                                coronary heart disease and any level over 100
                                should be addressed. The
                                      problem at its most basic is that the
                                      sugar not removed from the blood has to have an end goal, and that is either to be stored
                              as fat, or to be made into triglycerides: and as
                              we all know, obesity and high triglycerides
                              present us with many undesirable bills, which
                              eventually have to be paid. A huge 2004  study of
                                over 39,000 in 40 countries people made an
                                incontrovertible connection between high blood
                                sugar and cardiovascular disease.  About
                                half of the subjects were men, averaging 63
                                years of age, and the researchers determined
                                that only one man in three had normal glucose
                                and insulin levels.  I in 5 had diabetes
                                that had gone undetected, and over 1 in 4 had
                                pre-diabetic readings.  This emphasizes the
                                importance of controlling blood sugar. As insulin levels rise and
                              insulin resistance in the body increases. the
                              situation develops its own momentum:  the
                              activity of the delta desaturase enzymes which
                              break down essential fatty acids declines,
                              increased amounts of saturated fats become part of
                              our cell membranes, and insulin sensitivity
                              decreases again. The enzyme pathways shut down
                              through which  Arachidonic acid is converted
                              to the friendly GLA.  This in turn means the
                              messengers (eicosanoids) which promote insulin
                              sensitivity in the cells are not sent to do their
                              jobs, more insulin is produced to take care of the
                              added carbs, and a vicious cycle leading
                              potentially to diabetes and cardiovascular
                              problems (Syndrome X, or Insulin Resistance) is
                              set in motion. An important ratio for total
                              health is the amount of lean muscle compared to
                              the amount of body fat: the higher your ratio of
                              lean tissue versus fat, the lower your risk for
                              diabetes. (See RESOURCES) Will the
                                      obsessive  use of sunscreens lead to
                                      even MORE diabetes?? The link between
                              vitamin D3 and diabetes has been known for quite a
                              while, though the mechanism is not yet explained. 
                              It makes me wonder whether the new phobia about
                              sun exposure may in the long run have unexpected
                              consequences, particularly for our children who
                              would normally be out romping in the vitamin D
                              rich sunshine all summer.. Hypovitaminosis
                              D is associated with insulin resistance and ß
                              cell dysfunction - 
                              http://www.ajcn.org/cgi/content/abstract/79/5/820 Vitamin
                              D3 and Young Type 1 Diabetes - 
                              http://tinyurl.com/c7zrqu Don't overlook the
                              fact that diabetics are at greater risk for
                              osteoporosis: to quote information provided by Dr.
                              Steven Schneider in answer to a question in
                              Medscape, "it is clear that there is an
                              increased risk for low bone mineral density and
                              particularly for bone fractures in patients with
                              type 1 and, to a lesser extent, type 2 diabetes
                              mellitus. These abnormalities may be related at
                              least in part to prolonged periods of poor
                              metabolic control and might be decreased by more
                              aggressive treatment regimens.......Certainly
                              women with diabetes need to pay special attention
                              to the prevention of osteoporosis by maintaining
                              an adequate calcium and vitamin D intake. This
                              will often require calcium supplementation, which
                              may need to be started at an early age while peak
                              bone mass is still developing." What he is saying
                                is that all diabetics are at risk, but children
                                who have type 1 diabetes are particularly likely
                                to suffer because of the effects on bone
                                building during the crucial developmental years. If your child is a type 1 diabetic,
                                make sure that adequate calcium and Vitamin D
                                are provided. Onions
                                      and garlic have qualities which make them extra helpful for diabetics Onion and garlic have
                              significant blood sugar lowering action, because
                              their double sulfur (Thiole) bonds bind to enzymes
                              which deactivate insulin, allowing it to be active
                              longer.  The oils have active effects, but
                              flavonoids such as Quercetin in onions may also
                              come in to play, and the principal active
                              ingredients are allyl propyl disulphides (APDS),
                              and diallyl disulphide oxed (Allicin) which appear to compete with
                              insulin for docking sites in the liver, thus
                              making more free insulin available in the blood
                              stream and lowering glucose levels Onion extract has been 
                              found to reduce blood sugar levels during oral and
                              intravenous glucose tolerance. The effect improved
                              as the dosage was increased; however, beneficial
                              effects were observed even for low levels that
                              used in the diet (eg., 25 to 200 grams). The
                              effects were similar in both raw and boiled onion
                              extracts. Onions also affect the hepatic
                              metabolism of glucose and/or increases the release
                              of insulin, and/or prevent insulin's destruction. In supplement form, studies have shown that the
                              garlic needs to be standardized for its allicin
                              content, when 800mg per day can significantly
                              lower fasting blood glucose levels. Sufferers
                                      from diabetic neuropathy need to know
                                      about Alpha
                                      Lipoic Acid and Acetyl-L-Carnitine Alpha Lipoic Acid (also known as
                              Thioctic Acid, another thiol), has been used for
                              some years now in Europe for this condition. 
                              Dr. Murray says that ALA  "help
                              diabetics by facilitating better conversion of
                              sugar into energy...Its ability to improve blood
                              sugar metabolism is a result of its effects on
                              glucose metabolism and an ability to increase
                              insulin sensitivity. Diabetics taking insulin or
                              blood sugar lowering drugs are cautioned that
                              lipoic acid supplementation can result in changes
                              in dosage requirements. Close monitoring of blood
                              sugar levels is required."  Doses are in
                              the 500 to 600 mg range, and less may not be
                              effective. The January 2005 edition of
                              Diabetes Care , ( vol 28: pp 96-101.) carries
                              a study by Dr. Sima which evaluated two studies
                              involving over 1200 patients  with diabetic
                              neuropathy.  Analysis indicated significant
                              improvement, both at the 6 month and 1 year mark
                              using 1000 mgs of Acetyl-L-Carnitine. People who had been diagnosed
                              with diabetes for the shortest length of time not
                              only experienced the highest level of pain relief,
                              but also showed improvement in  nerve
                              structure and reactions. The researchers said the results
                              suggested that optimal results may be obtained by
                              starting this therapy as early as possible in the
                              course of the disease. Stress and inflammation also play a role
                                      in the onset of Diabetes: researchers from the National
                              Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
                              Diseases state that chronic
                              activation of the immune system, with upregulation
                              of interleukin-6, may play a role in the
                              pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. Cortisol or sex
                              hormones or both could also be contributing
                              factors, the investigators add. Jack Challem, the Nutrition Reporter, traces an
                              interesting route for a stress/diabetes connection
                              in his 2007 book, the
                              Food-Mood Solution (http://www.foodmoodsolution.com/).  He points out that
                              not only does the increased stress of our
                              lifestyles cause cortisol to be imbalanced, but
                              also that the changes in our personalities caused
                              by unrelenting stress lead to less time for, and
                              less interest in, nutritious cooking and wise
                              dietary choices. Paleolithic
                                      Diet and Diabetes Control I read a fascinating article in
                              issue 49, 2000 of the Herbalgram (you can
                              find it at herbalgram.org) which detailed a quest
                              initially undertaken by  20 Native Americans
                              of the Seri and O'odham tribes, but eventually
                              swelling to number 120 "Desert Pilgrims" These tribes finally tired of
                              the probing research undertaken by the National
                              Institute of Health into the high incidence of
                              Diabetes in Native Americans, and decided to
                              organize a trek through their ancestral region,
                              eating nothing but indigenous foods and living off
                              the land.  They were full of trepidation at
                              the start of the trek, not sure they could make it
                              through the 12 day, 240 mile journey. Along the way, they ate
                              only  prickly pear and other cactus, wild
                              greens, wild game supplied both by villages they
                              passed through and the efforts of their own
                              hunters, beans, mescal, chia seeds and chilies. 
                              They drank only water and teas made from creosote
                              bush, damiana and desert lavender (among other
                              herbs). At the end of the walk, there
                              were reports of dramatically reduced blood glucose
                              levels as well as improvement in cholesterol
                              levels.  This is living proof of the wisdom
                              of the Paleolithic diet - which can be simply 
                              summed up as "if it didn't exist 100 years
                              ago, don't eat it."  I would add
                              "if it doesn't rot with time, don't eat
                              it"! Of course, in Paleolithic times there were
                              going to be days when nothing at all was on the
                              menu - enforced, fasting, as you might say. 
                              This ties in with interesting
                              research 
                              (http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/88030.php) which suggests that fasting one day a
                              month positively affects cardiovascular health,
                              possibly through reduced exposure to glucose. 
                              Researchers theorize that this one day without
                              food gives the organs time to rest and work more
                              efficiently. There
                                      are two effective dietary approaches that
                                      people who have this problem can take: one is the 40-30-30 diet, where
                              care is taken every day that the food you eat is
                              always composed of 40% complex carbohydrates,
                              30% protein and 30% fat, with between 50 and 100
                              grams of fiber daily. The other is to make sure that
                              you are drinking at least 8 glasses of pure water
                              every day, and that your sodium intake is
                              adequate. The balance of nutrients I
                              recommend above has a very low glycemic index,
                              which means that their entry rate into the blood
                              stream is slow: this in turn means that the body
                              has time to control the situation, the pancreas is
                              not over-stimulated to produce insulin, and the
                              mechanism that stores fat in the body is not put
                              on high alert. What about the water and salt? A very interesting book I have
                                been reading by Dr. Batmanghelidj called Your
                                Body's Many Cries for Water suggests
                                persuasively that lack of water and sodium in
                                the cells of the body activates the brain to
                                raise its glucose requirements, and by a
                                complicated process involving Tryptophan,
                                Histamine and Prostaglandin E, also to inhibit
                                insulin production. He states that a low salt diet
                                is actually counterproductive for diabetics. In
                                another part of his fascinating book, he
                                documents many successes with weight loss,
                                simply by increasing the amount of water his
                                patients drink daily, and replacing all other
                                fluids (i.e. pops, especially diet, juices,
                                coffee & teas) with it. Supplements can also help: a
                              British study ( Diabetes
                              Care 2002;25:1709-1714.)
                              has shown that even
                              short-term use of dietary phytoestrogens significantly
                              and positively affects
                              fasting insulin levels, insulin resistance, HbA1c
                              levels, total cholesterol levels, LDL cholesterol,
                              cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio, and free
                              thyroxine (thyroid function) levels. The
                              investigators concluded that even short term
                              supplementation  with soy phytoestrogens 
                              ( though it was not clear whether the soy protein
                              itself, or its component isoflavones are
                              responsible for the effect) reduces insulin
                              resistance and improves glycemic control in type 2
                              postmenopausal diabetics. If
                                      you are using supplements, be sure to
                                      choose ones that contain no extra iron . A study in the Journal of the
                              American Medical Association showed the risk of
                              diabetes for women whose iron levels are too high
                              increased significantly. You can access the study
                              in 
                              RESOURCES. As long ago as 1982 the American
                              journal of Clinical Nutrition reported a
                              correlation between serum chromium and serum
                              insulin levels, and recent research has
                              corroborated that, together with vanadium, it is
                              effective in controlling blood sugar levels. 
                              A 1997 study by Anderson, in Diabetes, 46:1786-91, which was randomized and
                              placebo-controlled showed that both fasting and
                              post-prandial sugar and insulin levels were
                              reduced significantly using chromium. The study
                              got better results using a dosage of 1000 mcg. per
                              day, where previously only 200 mcg have been
                              routinely recommended by nutritionists. Insulin dependant diabetics
                              should use chromium with caution, since its very
                              effectiveness can be dangerous for them.Perhaps
                              the most widely used form of chromium is Chromium
                              Picolinate, and in view of some of the rumors that
                              have been spread about this supplement, almost
                              always encouraged if not outright started by
                              companies making rival forms, I want to take this
                              opportunity of saying that both the USDA and the
                              manufacturers have undertaken toxicity studies
                              that meet every standard of such studies, and have
                              never come up with any adverse results. (HPB June
                              99;8) A 2001 study suggests that
                              treatment with L-Arginine over a long period (1
                              month in the study) can  improves insulin
                              sensitivity in patients with type 2 diabetes. 
                              The authors of the study point out that L-Arginine,
                              which increases nitric oxide (NO) levels, is known
                              to stimulate insulin secretion.  In this
                              study, patients treated with 3 grams of the amino
                              acid daily showed reductions in systolic blood
                              pressure compared with placebo-treated patients,
                              together with  significantly increased
                              forearm blood flow and normal levels of cyclic
                              guanosine monophosphate, a second messenger of NO. 
                              More to the point,  patients  who
                              received L-Arginine had a significant ( 34%) 
                              increase in glucose disposal and significant
                              improvement in hepatic insulin sensitivity, as
                              endogenous glucose production decreased
                              significantly although glucose production in both
                              the L-Arginine group and the placebo group
                              remained significantly higher than in 10 normal
                              subjects. "Our study has shown for the first time that
                              an increment in NO availability induced by the
                              administration of L-arginine is able to increase
                              insulin sensitivity, even if complete
                              normalization is not achieved," the authors
                              conclude. Diabetes Care 2001;24:875-880. An
                                      interesting new compound which may offer
                                      help in fightitng diabetes is Co-enzyme-A, to which Pantethine is a pre-cursor: this substance helps maintain
                              healthy RNA/DNA, deterioration of which can lead
                              to many age-related disorders, to include
                              diabetes. The USDA was considering
                              applying for a use patent on Cinnamon Extract for
                              diabetes, based on their studies showing
                              beneficial effects on blood lipids as well as a
                              significant 20% improvement in blood sugar levels.
                               Read the study here 
                              (http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/pr/2004/040419.htm). I hope this doesn't mean that certain fast
                              food chains will now begin promoting their
                              cinnamon rolls as nutritional supplements BUT the
                              substantial evidence for the helpfulness of
                              cinnamon in blood sugar control can no longer be
                              ignored. Another supplement that seems to 
                              help particularly with the problem of insulin
                              resistance is Garcinia Cambogia . It comes
                              from India, where it has been traditionally used
                              as an appetite control, and as an aid in
                              processing food. It is a source of hydroxy-citric
                              acid, or HCA, which appears to work by blocking a
                              key cellular pathway that converts glucose to fat.
                              Certainly animals fed an HCA supplemented diet
                              have shown reduced food intake, a decline in body
                              fat and lowered triglyceride levels. Traditional Ayurvedic medicine
                              has successfully applied a herbal approach to
                              diabetes: a herb called Gymnema
                              Sylvestre (also recommended by Dr.
                              Whitaker) which appears to assist the pancreas in
                              manufacturing insulin, and in studies has been
                              shown to be successful in helping control both
                              type 1 and 11 diabetes - in fact, it is
                              recommended by Natural Health professionals that
                              you monitor your medication carefully, since this
                              herb can lower requirements for it.. studies have
                              been done using a specific Gymnema extract called
                              GS4, and the results are encouraging. Using
                              200 mg/day cutspatients' required insulin dose in
                              half... Bitter Melon also helps regulate blood sugar, even for pets,
                              and research is being done on the herb Fenugreek for its part in controlling blood sugars. Dr.
                              Leigh Broadmoor ( News from the Herbal Village, Vol. 1V, Issue 1: 11) points out that fenugreek is
                              about 50% fiber, with 20% being mucilage and
                              mucilage makes a significant difference to blood
                              sugar levels. She cites a study done by the Indian
                              National Institute of Nutrition where 10 IDDM
                              patients were given 100 grams of debittered
                              fenugreek seed powder per day, which led to a 30%
                              decrease in fasting glucose and an improvement in
                              glucose tolerance. The amount of sugar excreted in
                              the urine dropped by 54% without a concomitant
                              increase in blood sugar levels. She says this
                              result cannot be explained entirely by the
                              mucilage, and fenugreek also contains many plant
                              phytochemicals which may be part of the effect. Be
                              careful of Fenugreek if you have allergies to
                              other foods n the same family, such as soy or
                              peanuts! A
                                      new entry is an extract of a herb called
                                      Lagerstroemia Speciosa, which helps transport glucose
                              and therefore balance blood sugar, evening out the
                              highs and the lows. Companies are now coming out
                              with combinations of the herbs and nutrients
                              helpful for insulin control, and three I recommend
                              are Glucoreg by Solaray, Glucocare by Ayurvedic
                              Concepts, and Glucotrim by Nature's Plus. My own
                              formulation, Glucose Support, contains many of
                              these helpful nutrients. Jarrow Formulas makes a protein
                              mix called Glycemic Balance, which has been used
                              very successfully by many of my clients attempting
                              to control sugar variations, and a formula called
                              Glucose Optimizer, which in effect contains nearly
                              everything I have mentioned to regulate blood
                              sugar. Another herb which helps balance blood
                              sugar is American Ginseng, which has been shown to
                              lower blood sugar levels even in non-diabetics. ( Arch.Intern.Med., Apr. 10 2000; 160(7):1009-13) An interesting and little known fact is that the
                              end products of sugar metabolism in the body are
                              actually used as  markers for aging. 
                              They are called AGEs, appropriately enough, which
                              stands for Advanced Glycation End Products. The
                              more of them you have, the older your biological
                              age.  Controlling your blood sugar,
                              therefore, can actually address your life span.
                              Some studies suggest American Ginseng can lower
                              the AGE levels. So, if you want to live longer,
                              limit your carbohydrate intake, choose any
                              carbohydrates you eat from those containing sugars
                              which enter the blood slowly, usually because they
                              are accompanied by protein, fiber or fatty acids,
                              and select supplements which will help you balance
                              your sugars.  See RESOURCES
                              for more about Glycemic Index and Glycemic Load. Consider
                                        the financial costs of Diabetes, as
                                        estimated by the American
                                        Diabetes Association:  http://care.diabetesjournals.org/cgi/content/full/26/3/917 Direct medical and indirect expenditures
                                        attributable to diabetes in
                                        2002 were estimated at $132 billion.
                                        Direct medical expenditures
                                        alone totaled $91.8 billion and
                                        comprised $23.2 billion for
                                        diabetes care, $24.6 billion for chronic
                                        complications attributable to
                                        diabetes, and $44.1 billion for excess
                                        prevalence of general medical
                                        conditions. Inpatient days (43.9%),
                                        nursing home care (15.1%),
                                        and office visits (10.9%) constituted
                                        the major expenditure groups
                                        by service settings. In addition, 51.8% of direct medical expenditures
                                        were incurred by people >65 years
                                        old. Attributable indirect expenditures
                                        resulting from lost workdays,
                                        restricted activity days, mortality, and
                                        permanent disability due to
                                        diabetes totaled $39.8 billion. U.S.
                                        health expenditures for the
                                        health care components included in the study totaled $865 billion, of
                                        which $160 billion was incurred by
                                        people with diabetes. Per capita medical
                                        expenditures totaled $13,243
                                        for people with diabetes and $2,560 for
                                        people without diabetes. When
                                        adjusting for differences in age, sex,
                                        and race/ethnicity between
                                        the population with and without
                                        diabetes, people with diabetes
                                        had medical expenditures that were 2.4
                                        times higher than
                                        expenditures that would be incurred by
                                        the same group in the absence
                                        of diabetes. Smokers Beware! Cigarette smoking
                                is now further implicated as a culprit of
                                impaired glucose tolerance. According to
                                findings published recently in the Annals of
                                Internal Medicine , risk of impaired fasting
                                glucose and type 2 diabetes increases in a
                                dose-dependent manner with the number of
                                cigarettes smoked per day and the number of
                                pack-years of exposure. Nakanishi et al ( Ann
                                Intern Med. 2000;133:183-191.)perceive the
                                findings as evidence that smoking is a
                                "modifiable risk factor that can be
                                targeted" for diabetes prevention. The risks for developing type 2 diabetes were 
                                imposing. In comparison with never-smokers, the
                                relative risk was 1.08 for ever-smokers, 1.88
                                for the one-to-20-cigarette group, 3.02 for the
                                21-to-30-cigarette group, and 4.09 for heavier
                                smokers -- constituting a statistically
                                significant trend across current-smoker
                                categories.  The longer the habit has
                                existed, the greater the increase of risk. "The mechanism of how cigarette smoking
                                increases the risk for impaired fasting glucose
                                and type 2 diabetes remains to be
                                elucidated," write Nakanishi and
                                colleagues. They cite recent study findings
                                suggesting that smoking causes insulin
                                resistance in peripheral tissues, increased
                                serum insulin and C-peptide levels, and the
                                release of counterregulatory hormones. Of course,
                                they might also consider the fact that most
                                cigarettes contain sugar. Then, consider also the health
                                costs: People with a fasting blood sugar level of
                                100-125 mg/dl had an adjusted nearly 300%
                                increase in their  risk for coronary heart
                                disease than people with a level below 79 mg/dl.
                                This information was compiled from a
                                cross-sectional study of nearly 2500 people. 
                                In fact, the Cleveland Clinic Foundation now
                                uses a fasting blood sugar of 90 mg/dl or higher
                                as a biomarker of coronary heart disease risk.
                                The Cleveland Clinic gets very concerned when
                                they encounter someone with a fasting blood
                                sugar above 90 mg/dl. They try to intervene with
                                exercise, diet and weight control. (American
                                Journal Cardiology March 2002(1);89(5):596-9) Additionally, in the June 22nd
                                2002 edition of Lancet, a Swedish study at the
                                Karolinska Institute was published which
                                researched patients admitted for acute
                                myocardial infarctions: these patients had not
                                previously had any reason to suspect that they
                                suffered from any blood sugar imbalances: 
                                the researchers recorded blood sugar levels at
                                admission, during the stay in the hospital, 
                                at the time of  discharge, and 3 months
                                later.  At hospital discharge, 58 of 164
                                patients (35%) had impaired glucose tolerance,
                                and 51 patients (31%) had undiagnosed diabetes,
                                the researchers found. At 3 months, 58 of 144
                                (40%) patients had impaired glucose and 36
                                patients (25%) were diabetic. Diabetes is a very serious
                              health condition, and I do not to suggest that you
                              make changes without your Doctor's consent; for
                              many people, however, nutrition makes the
                              difference between medication & control. Find
                                      the recommended supplements here QUICK LINKS The
                                      Mood-Food Solution - http://www.foodmoodsolution.com/ Chromium
                                      and Diabetes - http://diabetes.diabetesjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/46/11/1786 Low
                                      Vitamin D and Blood Sugar - http://www.ajcn.org/cgi/content/abstract/79/5/820 Treatment
                                      of symptomatic diabetic polyneuropathy
                                      with the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid - 
                                      http://care.diabetesjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/22/8/1296?maxtoshow=&HITS=&hits=&RESULTFORMAT=&fulltext=lipoic+acid&searchid=1034863029414_1326&stored_search=&FIRSTINDEX=0&journalcode=diacare Diabetes
                                      #1 Shame of Orthodox Doctors - http://www.newmediaexplorer.org/chris/2007/10/29/diabetes_1_shame_of_the_orthodox_doctors_chromium_more.htm Link
                                            between Obesity, Syndrome X/Insulin
                                            Resistance and Alzheimer's/Dementia? 
                                            - http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=retrieve&db=pubmed&list_uids=9366728&dopt=Abstract Click
                                            here for more information about the
                                            Glycemic Index, and a list of food
                                            values  - http://www.mendosa.com/common_foods.htm To
                                            find out how many Carbohydrates are
                                            right for you, click here - 
                                            http://www.global-fitness.com/at.cgi?a=204562&e=carbcalc_intro.html Alpha
                                            Lipoic Acid and Diabetic Neuropathy - 
                                            http://www.berkeley.edu/news/media/releases/96legacy/releases.96/14316.html Connection
                                            between Iron Levels and Diabetes in
                                            Women - 
                                            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&list_uids=14871914&dopt=Abstract Omega
                                            3 and Depression in Diabetics - 
                                            http://www.onderzoekinformatie.nl/en/oi/nod/onderzoek/OND1284172/ Your
                                            Body's Many Cries for Water - F.
                                            Batmanghelidj - http://www.fetchbook.info/search_Batmanghelidj_/searchBy_Author.html Related
                                            articles you may find interesting: Insulin
                                                Resistance Stress Alpha
                                                Lipoic Acid Click here for the Vitamin 
Lady Archive of Past Articles Subscribe to receive our 
Newsletters, health updates and specials Like us 
on Facebook to receive upcoming specials and coupons. The statements on these pages 
have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug administration, and are not 
intended to cure or diagnose any disease. The Vitamin Lady®™ does not 
intend any comments to replace the recommendations of your medical professional. You are visiting The Vitamin Lady®™ at Middle Earth. Phone numbers Toll Free 800-234-7494 / International 309 833 2848. Email: 
vitaminlady@vitaminlady.com Click here for Toll Free Number Made by The Vitamin Lady®™. Copyright© 1999 vitaminlady.com. All rights 
reserved. Revised: September 17, 2011. Webmasters - you are very welcome to quote from our articles, but in 
return We would request proper credit and a link from your site to the actual 
article.  If you contact us, we will also review the possibility of linking 
to your site. *Product is shipping with 24 business hours on all in stock product.  Back 
ordered items generally ship with 5 to 7 business days.  If your order will 
not be shipped for longer than 10 business days, we will notify you by email. **See our Shipping Policy for 
heavy items.                                       
Prices subject to change without notice. HOME | CONTACT US | ABOUT US | VITAMINLADY BLOG | OUR PRODUCTS | FAQ | SHIPPING | SI