
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 15:01:22 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treat And Cure | Cancer | The Role of Laetrile In Cancer Treatment home | acne | addiction | alzheimers | cancer | diabetes | eyesight | support | shopping Cancer Treatment - The Role of Laetrile [B-17] Laetrile is a cancer treatment produced from a common food enzyme, 
              B-17 derived from apricot seeds and almonds. Laetrile was heralded as the major breakthrough in the treatment 
              of cancer. In this series of videos we look at the controversy around 
              the use of laetrile, the research and media reports, and how laetrile 
              is designed to work. Cure Your Cancer - Undisclosed Research How research was suppressed by medical authorities, refusing to 
              believe that a simple enzyme B-17 could have success in treating 
              cancer. Cure Your Cancer - B17/Cycle of Tumors Note: Laetrile is produced from amygdalin. Amydgalin is derived 
              from apricot seeds. Cure Your Cancer - The Role of Laetrile New anticancer discovery by scientists in Canada: DCA(dichloroacetate) 
              corrects a well documented metabolic dysfunction within cancer cells 
              known as glycolysis by reactivating dormant mitochondria. The mitochondria 
              then initiate apoptosis (or cell death). DCA corrects a well documented metabolic dysfunction within cancer 
              cells, known as glycolysis, by reactivating dormant mitochondria. 
              The mitochondria then initiate apoptosis (or cell death). DCA, is inexpensive due to the fact it cannot be patented as it 
              has been used for ~30 years to treat a metabolic syndrome in children. 
              It has a low toxicity level of roughly 600 mg/kg of body weight. Cure Your Cancer - Dosage & Case Studies Spreading The Word Bitter almonds or other natural sources of B17 alone will not cure 
              cancer. You also need a doctor to administer injections of B17. 
              Sadly, most people try it when their bodies are beyond help and/or 
              have been severely poisoned by chemo. Scientists in London determined 
              that for B17 to work, its effectiveness would have to be increased 
              by 36-fold. To achieve this without ill effects, they administered 
              modified tumor antibodies that release cyanide right on the cancer 
              cells. If injected intravenously, Laetrile might work on some early cancers, 
              but only if administered in high doses for brief periods (some also 
              suggest taking zinc to aid in rapid absorption). Eating bitter almonds 
              will aid slightly in preventing some forms of cancers, but consuming 
              large quantities at once or even in small amounts for prolonged 
              periods may cause severe poisoning in most people. Again, the exact 
              amount varies. B17 is dangerous in small-continuous doses, because the cyanide 
              content will build up in ones system over time. From my understanding, 
              B17's toxicity levels have never been established, and they vary 
              enormously from person to person. To be honest, I wanted to remove 
              this video but several folks asked me not to--so here we are. Breat Cancer Treatments Back To Top CANCER | about | symptoms | causes | diagnosis | treatments | prevention | medical HOME ONLINE SHOPPING Acne Addiction Alzheimers Cancer Chronic 
      Pain Syndrome Diabetes Eyesight Health & Fitness 
      News OTHER RESOURCES Sitemap Resource Links Find More In Treat and Cure Online Shop home | acne | addiction | alzheimers | cancer | diabetes | eyesight | support | shopping This site is informational only and should not be used for treatment. Consult 
    with your medical physician. Any product, treatment or medical information 
    on this site should be discussed with your doctor before using. Links to other sites do 
    not indicate an affiliation or suppor