
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 00:38:49 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.migraineinformation.org/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Feverfew Migraine Is Now Commonly Used | Migraines and Headaches A blog about dealing with migraines and headaches... Home Archive About Migraines & Headaches Categories Articles Migraines and Headaches Uncategorized The Meta Login RSS Comments RSS Back to top « The Best Info About Excedrin Migraine Discover The Best About Maxalt Migraine » Feverfew Migraine Is Now Commonly Used Feverfew is used not only to treat migraines, but other diseases as well. This is a plant that originated in Europe, and has been used for centuries as a common medicine. This is a plant that belongs to the sunflower family. The medicines that contain this plant normally use the leaf extracts, but all the other parts of the plant that grow above the ground can be used too. “The components of this medicine, work in such a way that it works to prevent the constriction of blood vessels.” The constrictions of blood vessels are what cause a migraine. This medicine became popular, as it was much better than most medications that were subscribed for migraine attacks. This can be consumed in the leaf form too. If consumed as a leaf, about two or three can be consumed every day. This can also be consumed as a capsule. This medicine when consumed daily will give a lot of relief to patients suffering from migraine. Since migraine occurs over a period of time, the feverfew medicine can be consumed with white willow. Over about twelve weeks there will be a significant change in the migraine intensity and pain. Feverfew has known to be combined with several other components to provide good results. Some of them are magnesium and vitamin B2. This combination is known to reduce migraine attacks by fifty percent. This medicine can also have a carbon dioxide extract, and this too is as effective as the other combinations. The dose has to be taken with the advice of a health care provider. It can be taken in the dose of 100 to 300 mg, four times a day for effective results. Those consuming this for the treatment of migraine must also remember that this will not give instant results. It will take a while to yield results. Since this is a natural product, there will be no side effects. However it has to be consumed in a normal dosage, and it should not be taken in heavy doses at all. The dosage will also have to be stopped slowly. Tags: common medicine medicine work migraine attacks migraines Migraines and Headaches patients suffering from sunflower family vitamin b2 Share This Posted in: Migraines and Headaches : 09.23.07 No Comments! Be The First! Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail Close Social Web E-mail del.icio.us Digg Furl Netscape Yahoo! My Web StumbleUpon Google Bookmarks Technorati BlinkList Newsvine ma.gnolia reddit Windows 