
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: cloudflare-nginx
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 22:33:10 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache

Vitamins - Vitamin - Vitamins Are Needed For A Healthy Lifestyle - Diet and Health.net About Us | Ask Us | Contact Us Diet & Health Diseases Supplements Weight Pain Naturopathy More Vitamins Are An Essential Part Of A Healthy Diet Vitamins are organic substances functioning to facilitate an
essential biochemical reaction necessary for growth, vitality and the
normal functioning of our bodies. We must obtain them from our diet or
take them in the form of dietary supplements, that are usually derived
from plant and animal products. Crucial to the definition of a vitamin
is that lack of it produces a specific deficiency syndrome, and
supplying it cures that deficiency. It is almost impossible to sustain a healthy way of life by taking
only synthetic supplements and not following a good eating plan.
Supplements should be taken only with some nutrition knowledge or the
guidance of a nutritionist and dietitian. Many vitamins and minerals can be toxic if taken in excess. Often there are sufficient vitamins in
your diet, thus by taking supplements toxicity may occur. Symptoms
include hair loss, blurred vision, bone pain, fatigue and headaches. The best way of obtaining a healthy balance of vitamins is by eating
a large variety of different foods. One should try not to limit their
diet to a few delicacies. Try out new dishes, be adventurous. Fat-Soluble Vitamins. The fat-soluble vitamins are vitamins
A, D, E, and K. These vitamins are absorbed, transported, metabolized
and stored along with fat. The fat soluble vitamins function as
regulators for specific metabolic activity. Water-soluble Vitamins. The water-soluble vitamins include
vitamin C, and those of the B-complex group: biotin, folate, niacin,
pantothenic acid, riboflavin, thiamin, vitamin B 6 , and vitamin B 12 . They function mainly as coenzymes . Vitamin Supplements No data have yet been published to demonstrate that healthy people eating a well balanced diet need any vitamin supplements .
A well balanced diet means that what one has eaten during the day
should include a wide variety of foods from each of the five food
groups (fruit, vegetables, bread and grains, meat and milk). Except in pregnancy, where supplementation of certain vitamins may
be recommended, there are no reports of normal persons eating a well
balanced diet developing vitamin deficiency diseases. The proper role
of vitamin supplementation is in the treatment of deficiency in
patients who have inadequate intake, disturbed absorption, or increased
requirements because of an increased destruction or excretion. Mega-dose therapy is the treatment with daily quantities of a vitamin or vitamins substantially above the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA)
of the Food and Nutrition Board. The RDAs are the levels of intake of
essential nutrients considered to be adequate to meet the known
nutritional needs of all healthy persons. Vitamins, like many other substances, may be toxic when taken in
large quantities. Large doses of nicotinic acid frequently cause
flushing and itching, liver damage, dermatoses, elevations of serum
glucose concentration and peptic ulceration may occur. Prolonged
excessive intake of vitamin D can cause anorexia, nausea, weakness,
weight loss, hypertension, anemia, hypercalcemia, irreversible renal
failure, and death. Vitamin E in large doses antagonises the action of
vitamin A and also causes headaches, nausea, fatigue, blurred vision,
inflammation of the mouth, chapping of the lips, gastrointestinal
disturbances, muscle weakness, low blood sugar , increased bleeding
tendency, and degenerative changes. The comments that vitamin doses in excess of the RDA may produce
"optimal" health are pure speculation, unsupported by any facts in
human metabolism, and contradicted by the toxicity of vitamin and
mineral doses in excess of the RDA. "More is better" is a slogan, not
science. More is sometimes better, sometimes worse, but always costlier. Vitamin A (Retinol, Carotene) Vitamin A is fat soluble, it is an antioxidant and occurs in two forms - retinol and carotene. The RDA [ Food and Nutrition Board, National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council - Recommended Dietaty Allowances. ] for adults is 1000 micrograms RE (Retinol Equivalents. 1 RE = 1 microgram retinol or 6 micrograms ?-carotene). The allowances, expressed as average daily intakes over time, are
intended to provide for individual variations among most normal persons
as they live in the United States under usual environment stresses. The
RDA's given are the higher of adult males or females, for more precise
data refer to the RDA tables. Because vitamin A and carotene exist in more than one chemical form,
and because they are not equally active, it is usual to give the name
retinol to the pure vitamin A. Thus the total vitamin A activity of a
food, its retinol equivalent, is determined by how much it contains of
retinol, chemicals very similar to retinol but not as active, and a
range of carotenes also of varying activity. Vitamin A maintains the skin and mucous membranes. Promotes growth,
strong bones, healthy skin, hair, teeth and gums. Builds up resistance
to respiratory infections and shortens the duration of diseases. It
counteracts night blindness and aids in the treatment of many eye
disorders. Night blindness is an early symptom of a deficiency of
vitamin A. In a dozen case-control and cohort studies, intakes of fruits and
vegetables containing carotenoids has been associated with a reduced
risk of lung cancer. In contrast little relationship has been found
between intake of preformed vitamin A (retinol) and this disease. Available data thus strongly support the hypothesis that dietary
carotenoids reduce the risk of lung cancer, but the data also are
compatible with the possibility that some other factor in these foods
is responsible for the lower risk. The recommendation to eat a variety
of fruits and vegetables is reasonable, but leaves much to chance; if
?-carotene is the anticancer agent, intake of specific fruits and
vegetables should be advised. [ Willett, W.C., Vitamin A and lung cancer , Nutrition Reviews, 48:201, 1990 ] The best natural sources are green leafy vegetable tops, carrots,
red peppers, sweet potatoes, yellow fruits, apricots, fish-liver oil
and eggs. Vitamin A is one of the few vitamins in which excess produces
definite and severe effects. Toxic symptoms can occur with intake
exceeding 100 000 IU's daily. Hypervitaminosis A leads to loss of
appetite, a dry, itchy skin often with peeling, intense headaches and
an enlarged liver. Recovery is fairly rapid when intake is reduced. Vitamin B 1 (Thiamine) Vitamin B 1 is water soluble like all the B vitamins. It is easily lost and must be replaced daily. The RDA for adults is 1.5 milligrams. Thiamine prevents and cures beriberi, a disease of the nervous
system. It aids growth, maintains normal carbohydrate metabolism and
nervous system functioning. It helps alleviate stress conditions,
anxiety and trauma. The best natural sources are dried yeast, spirulina, whole wheat, oats, peanuts, soybeans, green vegetables and milk. This vitamin is not toxic, it is easily excreted from the body and
not stored. It is destroyed by heat, caffeine, alcohol and cigarette
smoke. Vitamin B 2 (Riboflavin) Vitamin B 2 is not stored and must be replaced daily. The RDA for adults is 1.7 milligrams. Essential for normal cell growth, helps to metabolize carbohydrates,
fats and proteins. Benefits vision and eye fatigue, promotes healthy
skin, nails and hair. Eliminates sores in mouth, on lips and tongue. The best natural sources are milk, yeast, cheese, sea vegetables, leafy green vegetables, mushrooms, fish and eggs. There are no known toxic effects. It is destroyed by light, alcohol and sulfur drugs. Vitamin B 3 (Niacin, Nicotinic Acid) Niacin is a component of an enzyme and can be produced by the
body, some of the amino acid tryptophane is converted into niacin. The
RDA for adults is 19 milligrams. It is necessary for a wide variety of body processes, reduces high blood pressure ,
lowers cholesterol levels and prevents pellagra. Without niacin, thiamine and riboflavin cannot function properly. The best natural sources are lean meat, whole wheat, tuna, anchovy, yeast, eggs, peanuts and avocados. Niacin is not toxic but people with peptic ulcers or diabetes should
consult a doctor before taking supplements greater than 100 milligrams. Vitamin B 5 (Pantothenic Acid) Vitamin B 5 is known in other forms - Calcium Pantothenate and Panthenol. The RDA for adults is 7 milligrams. It is necessary for the utilization of other nutrients and
maintaining normal growth and development of the nervous system, as
well as for the metabolism of fat and sugars. The best natural sources are fish, whole grains, wheat germ, green vegetables and brewers yeast. There are few known toxic effects, but very large doses have been
known to produce lack of co-ordination in movement and impairment of
sensation. It is destroyed by heat, caffeine and alcohol. Vitamin B 6 (Pyridoxine) B 6 has three metabolic forms pyridoxine, pyridoxal and pyridoxamine. The RDA for adults is 2.0 milligrams. It is essential in amino acid metabolism, is required for the absorption of B 12 and for the production of antibodies and red blood cells. The best natural sources are bananas, brewer's yeast, wheat germ, green and red peppers, nuts, molasses and eggs. Intake should be increased with diets high in protein. Daily doses
of over 500 mg should be avoided. Doses over 2 g can lead to
neurological disorders. Food processing techniques, canning and alcohol
can deplete vitamin B 6 . Vitamin B 12 (Cyancobalimin, Cobalamin) B 12 contains mineral elements - cobalt. The RDA for adults is 2.0 micrograms. Cobalamins are necessary for protein and fatty acid metabolism and the production of red blood cells. It
maintains a healthy nervous system and improves concentration and
memory. The best natural sources are clams, oysters, beef, eggs and dairy products. It is not found in many plant products except certain soya products,
tempeh and sea vegetables. If you are a strict vegetarian you will need
to take B 12 supplements. Although, people who have diets high in protein need more B 12 . A deficiency can cause pernicious anemia. B 12 is not easily absorbed and needs to be combined with
calcium for proper absorption. It is destroyed by sunlight, alcohol and
sleeping pills. There have been no reports of B 12 toxicity. Vitamin B 15 (Pangamic Acid, Pangamate, Calcium Pangamate) Pangamic acid has not had much research done on it in the USA, but
has been approved in Russia and used by athletes to enhance
performance. Pangamic acid is a label not a product. The pills contain
anything the seller chooses to put in them. The Food and Drug Administration contend that "B 15 " is
essentially an untested food additive which is not generally recognized
by the scientific experts as safe for human consumption. Pangamate was
prohibited within Canada for almost two decades. Because of these
facts, any physician who prescribes it should first get informed
consent from his or her patients after informing them that it is not a
vitamin, has no known nutrient value, no known value in the long-term
treatment of any disease, that its safety has not been established, and
that it may be mutagenic (cancer causing). The allegations that pangamic acid is an antioxidant, protects
against pollutants, increases the life span of cells, relieves symptoms
of asthma and lowers blood cholesterol levels, as well as that it stops
the craving for alcohol and protects the liver from cirrhosis are
anecdotal and testimonial stories rather than studies. The authors often claim spectacular results from "pangamic acid"
without identifying which of the many chemicals and chemical
combinations which go by that name they are using. Without
distinguishing drug effect from the placebo, and without reporting any
evaluation of patients for short-term or long-term toxic effects. [ Herbert, J., (Chief Hematology & Nutr. Lab. Bronx VA Medical Center) : Nutrition Cultism - Facts & Fictions. 1981 ] Vitamin B 17 (Laetrile) Laetrile is the trademark of a compound of two parts glucose and one part cyanide. There is no vitamin B 17 , "B 17 "
is a tradename created for laetrile by a laetrile proponent. It is
naturally present in the kernels of apricot pits and a number of other
stone fruits and nuts. There is no RDA but doses vary from 0.25 g to
1.0 g a day. It is believed to have cancer controlling and preventative
properties. Apparently normal cells can tolerate small quantities of
cyanide but cancer cells succumb to it. Cyanide has no value in sustaining human life. In small amounts it
injures, in larger amounts it kills. No law prevents promoters from
trade-naming nutritionally worthless or poisonous substances. Cyanide is rapidly absorbed from the intestine and diffuses
throughout the body, knocking out respiration in cells. Eating about 25
apricot kernels can cause headaches, dizziness, nausea, drowsiness, a
sharp fall in blood pressure, breathing difficulties, coma and death. There have been documented cases of people dying after taking as few
as five laetrile tablets. Not more than 1.0 gram should be taken at any
one time. [ Herbert, J., (Chief Hematology & Nutr. Lab. Bronx VA Medical Center) : Nutrition Cultism - Facts & Fictions. 1981 ] Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) Ascorbic acid is water soluble and is easily lost from the body. The RDA for adults is 60 milligrams. It is important for the growth and repair of body tissue cells,
bones, gums and teeth. It fights bacterial infections, protects Vitamin
A, some of the B vitamins and vitamin E from oxidation and is necessary
for the use of iron and oxygen in the body. People who lack this
vitamin may have sore gums and bleeding under the skin. It helps to reduce blood cholesterol levels, aids in preventing bacterial and viral infections, and prevents and cures scurvy. The best natural sources are citrus fruits, hot chili peppers, broccoli, tomatoes, green leafy vegetables, and sweet potatoes. Vitamin C is non toxic but people with peptic ulcers, might
hemorrhage and should consult a doctor before taking supplements. It is
lost through water, destroyed by cooking, heat, light and smoking. Vitamin D (Calciferol) Vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin and can be produced in the skin with
exposure to sunlight. The RDA for adults is 10 micrograms or 400 IU.
(as cholecalciferol. 10 micrograms cholecalciferol = 400 IU of vitamin
D.] It regulates calcium and phosphate metabolism. Aids the assimilation
of vitamin A and helps the treatment of conjuctivites and rickets. The best natural sources are sardines, herring and dairy products.
It is produced by interaction with sunlight and oils (cholesterol) in
the skin. It can be toxic with doses of over 5000 IU daily. In smog conditions
or when activities reduce exposure to sunlight vitamin D intake should
be increased. Vitamin E (Tocopherol) Vitamin E is the term used for eight naturally occurring,
fat-soluble nutrients called tocopherols - alpha, beta, gamma, delta,
epsilon, zeta, eta and theta. Alpha-Tocopherol is essential, has the
highest biological activity, and predominates in many species. The RDA
for adults is 10 IU. (Designated according to its biological activity
in International Units (IU). With this vitamin 1 IU = 1 mg Alpha
Tocopherol Equivalents). In human beings, vitamin E is the most important fat-soluble
antioxidant. It prevents the potentially harmful oxidation of fat
compounds and enhances the functioning of vitamin A. It is an
antipollutant for the lungs. It helps the healing of scar tissue when
taken internally and also when applied externally. The best natural sources are wheat germ, whole grains, vegetable oils, soya beans, nuts, apples, apricots and green vegetables. Vitamin E deficiency may cause anemia, as a result of red blood cell
destruction and neurological dysfunction, myopathies, and diminished
erythrocyte life span. New clinical evidence from heavy drinkers
suggests that alcohol may increase oxidation of Alpha-Tocopherol.
Increased demand has also been observed in premature infants and
patients with malabsorption. It is generally non toxic but some evidence suggests that large
intakes may cause increased levels of blood cholesterol and lipids. It
can oxidize within a few months of being manufactured, so supplements
should not be stored for more than a few months. It is destroyed by
heat, freezing, food processing, chlorine and iron. Vitamin K (Menadione) Vitamin K is a fat soluble vitamin usually formed in the body by intestinal bacteria but also available from some plant and animal sources. The RDA for adult males is 80 micrograms. Its primary function is to control the rate of blood clotting and prevent internal bleeding. The best natural sources are all leafy green vegetables,
cauliflower, brussel sprouts, broccoli, soybean oil, kelp, cereal grain
products, fruits and yoghurt. Vitamin K deficiency has been reported in patients treated with
antibiotics and placed on poor diets after surgery. A deficiency can
cause bleeding disorders. Doctors sometimes give women vitamin K before
childbirth to prevent bleeding in the newborn baby. Babies do not have
enough intestinal bacteria to produce adequate amounts of the vitamin
until they are about 2 weeks old. No toxicity symptoms have been recorded from natural forms but
supplementation of synthetic vitamin K exceeding 500 mcg is not
recommended as it can cause anemia and kernicterus, a condition
characterized by jaundice. Biotin Biotin is a member of the B complex family and is water soluble. The RDA for adults is 100 micrograms. It is essential for the metabolism of fats and the synthesis of
ascorbic acid. It maintains a healthy skin and helps prevent baldness
and hair from turning grey. The best natural sources are soya beans, brown rice, nuts, fruit,
brewer's yeast and milk. It can be synthesized by intestinal bacteria. It is not toxic. Avidin, a substance found in egg white prevents
biotin absorption. Sulfur drugs, food processing and alcohol destroy
biotin. Choline Choline is a cofactor of the B vitamins. There is no RDA but the
average adult diet contains between 500 milligrams to 900 milligrams a
day. Choline exists in combination with phospholipids which make up part
of the brain and spinal cord tissue. These compounds are called
lecithins. It is essential for growth and is involved in fat transport
and in carbohydrate and protein metabolism. It participates in the
metabolism of fat and emulsifies cholesterol, helping to control the
build up in arteries. It aids in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease
and helps to remove drugs and poisons from your system. It is also the
precursor of acetylcholine, which is involved in the transmission of
nerveimpulses. It is crucial for normal brain functioning and memory.
It goes directly into the brain cells and produces a chemical that aids
memory. The best natural sources are soya lecithin, green leafy vegetables, yeast and wheat germ. There is no known toxicity. It is destroyed by sulfur drugs, food processing and alcohol. Folic Acid (Folate, Folacin) Folic acid is a cofactor of the B complex vitamins. The RDA for adults is 200 micrograms. Folate is essential for cell growth because of its involvement in
nucleic acid and protein synthesis, and for the formation of red blood
cells and protein metabolism. It protects the body against intestinal
parasites and food poisoning. Maintains a healthy skin and helps in the
treatment of anemia. Megaloblastic anemia caused by folate deficiency is a major problem
in world health, especially among pregnant women and patients with
malabsorption or alcoholism. The best natural sources are raw leafy vegetables, fruit, carrots,
torula yeast, avocados, beans and whole wheat. Consumption of fresh
fruit and green leafy vegetables daily will ensure against dietary
folate deficiency. In doses of up to 5 mg a day there has been no sign of toxicity. It is easily lost in boiling water, sunlight, food processing, heat
and by taking sulfur drugs. A heavy drinker also needs to increase
folic acid intake. Inositol Inositol is a cofactor of the B complex vitamins. There is no RDA but the average adult gets about 1 gram per day in their diet. It works with choline in the metabolism of fat and cholesterol. It
is essential for the proper conduction of nerve impulses, lowers
cholesterol levels, promotes healthy hair and prevents balding. The best natural sources are lecithin, brewer's yeast, lima beans,
peanuts, raisins, wheat germ, cabbage, cantaloupe, grapefruit and
molasses. It is not toxic but is destroyed by sulfur drugs, food processing, alcohol and coffee. PABA (Para-aminobenzoic Acid) PABA is another member of the B complex family of vitamins. There is
no RDA but about 100 milligrams is usually included in B complex
supplements. It helps in the assimilation of protein and pantothenic acid. It is
important for normal skin and hair growth. It can protect you against
sunburn, prevent wrinkles, reduce the pain of burns and restore grey
hair to its natural color. The best natural sources are whole grains, wheat germ, brewer's yeast, rice and molasses. Non toxic, but high doses over a long period of time may cause nausea and vomiting. Discuss It! said: wat do they do You Recently Visited Nutritional Information On Miscellaneous Substances Recommended Daily Intake Of Vitamins And Minerals How Much Protein Should Be In Your Diet? Your Diet And Energy Minerals And Good Health Marketplace Related Articles Breast Tenderness Gastrointestinal Diseases Most Popular Articles American Heart Association 3 Day Diet 800 Calories Diet Menu 3 Day Kaiser Diet Inflammation Of The Stomach List Of Communicable Diseases Ask Us Cracker Barrel Nutrition Information Herbal Remedies Brewer Yeast Saccharomyces Cerevisiae Diet Planning Balanced Diet And Fats 800 Calorie Diet Menu Kidney Disease Stage 3 Lipase Average Weight For Height And Age Chart Chemical Breakdown 3 Day Diet Capillary Fragility Purpura Pollen Vegetarian Diets Calciferol More Buy China Health products from DHgate.com Daily Definition Recommended Dietary Allowance Recommended Dietary Allowance - The levels of intake of essential
nutrients judged by the Food and Nutrition Board, on the basis of scientific
knowledge, to be adequate to meet... read entire definition Related Categories Diet & Health Diseases Food Safety and Preparation Glossary Naturopathy Nutrition Pain Recipes Beef Breads & Desserts Dressings & Sauces Drinks Fish Poultry Salads & Appetizers Soups Vegetable Dishes Supplements Therapy Weight More Recently Added Management Of Chronic Pain Sharp Pain In Breast Leg And Hip Pain Pain Management Centers Hip Joint Pain Causes Pain In Upper Stomach Pain In Heel Of Foot When Walking Complex Regional Pain Syndrome Crps Chest Pain When Breathing Sharp Pain In Back Of Head Knee Pain Remedies Chronic Regional Pain Syndrome Treatment Knee Joint Pain Relief Chronic Back Pain Treatment Knee Pain After Running Pain Management Clinics Spinal Cord Stimulator Sombra Natural Pain Relieving Gel Neck Pain And Headaches Lymphedema Physical Therapy More Other Great Sites Diet and Heal