
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 09:04:31 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 Phusion_Passenger/3.0.7
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Back Pain Prevention Anatomy Basics for Back Pain Back Pain or Dorsopathy Basics Back Pain Signs & Symptoms Medical Advice in Back Pain Back Pain Risk Factors Back Pain Common Causes Medical Causes Rare Medical Causes Back Pain Complications Screening and Diagnosis Self-Care and Treatment Medications and Therapies Chronic Back Pain Treatments Surgery and Other Treatments Complementary and Alternative Therapies Back Pain Prevention Statistics for Back Pain Glossary of Terms Back Pain Prevention Back pain, particularly lower back pain, is most often caused by  strained back muscles and ligaments as a result of improper lifting  techniques, or as a result of lifting an overly heavy load, or a result  of sudden or awkward movement. solution to avoiding or preventing back pain in majority of cases is  simple: avoid accidents and any physical activities that place undue  stress or strain on the muscles, bones, and other tissues in your back.  However, we do not live in an ideal world, and this advice is not  always possible to follow. Accidents do happen, and people will  sometimes life heavy loads of perform physical activities that they  later regret. While it is impossible to undertake any activities that guarantee you  will never get back pain, there are some simple activities that you can  do to reduce your chances of suffering from back pain, and also improve  your well being and reduce your chances of suffering from a whole range  of other diseases. There are two types of simple back pain prevention activities: Keep Your Back Healthy and Strong To keep a strong and healthy back, make following part of your daily life: Exercise: regular aerobic activities which are low-impact (these  include activities that don't damage or jerk your back) can boost  strength and staying power in your back and help your muscles to keep  healthy and strong. Walking and swimming are known to be very  beneficial exercises. Try Building Up Muscle Strength and Suppleness: particularly in the  abdominal and back regions. Pilates exercise for instance is an  excellent way of strengthening abdominal and back muscles and are known  as Core Strengthening Exercises because they help condition muscles,  which support your torso and back. Maintaining suppleness in your hips  and thighs helps keep pelvic bones in correct alignment and reduces the  chances of back pain. Stop Smoking: smokers are not only at far higher risk of a range of  serious health related issues, they also reduce oxygen levels in their  spinal area, which slows healing down when damage in these areas occurs. Keep Your Weight Down: overweight people are not only at far higher  risk of a range of serious health related issues, they are also at a  higher risk of developing back pain. Being overweight puts a huge  strain on your muscles, bones, and soft tissues in and around back. If  you are overweight, losing some excess poundage can prevent further  back pain. Body Mechanics To keep a strong and healthy back, apply following techniques in your daily life: Stand Correctly: adopt an excellent standing posture, which will ensure  your pelvis is in a neutral position. If standing for long periods,  place your feet alternatively on a low stool. This should help to take  some of strain from your lower back. Sit Smart: Select a chair that has a decent lower back support with arm  rests. A swivel base is a good idea as it helps prevent twisting of  body. Most modern office chairs come with shock absorbers that allow  chair to sink down and absorb stress when you sit down, and these  chairs can greatly reduces the strain on your back. If you need  additional support, place a small cushion or a rolled up towel in the  small of your back to preserve its natural curve. When you are sitting,  try and keep knees and hips at same level. Lift Correctly: Don't let your back do all work use your legs instead.  When lifting something from the ground, ensure your back is as straight  as possible and you use your legs to lift weight. That is, keep your  back in a straight line and bend only at the knees. Holding the load as  close as possible to your body can also help reduce strain placed on  the back. It is especially important to avoid lifting and twisting at  the same time, as this places enormous stress on your back, and grinds  bones and soft tissues in your spine against each other. If you are  lifting something heavy, then always consider finding someone to help  you lift and move object. Sleep Comfortably: If you suffer with back problems, choose a bed with  a mattress that is supportive and not too hard. These types of mattress  provide the best support for back and give the best comfort. Also use a  minimum amount of pillows to support the head and ensure they are not  too hard. Back Pain Search our Site Are you addicted  to our health blog yet? Health Tip Warning :  mysql_connect() [ function.mysql-connect ]: Access denied for user 'ultimate_hci'@'localhost' (using password: NO) in /home/healthca/public_html/fitness/ba