
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 12:17:58 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

How Can Physical Therapy Chiropractic Heal Lower Back Pain -  Article Directory Login | Submit Articles | Register Home Article Directory News Need Donation All Categories Arts & Entertainment Business Communications Computers Environment Fashion Finance Food & Beverage Health & Fitness Home & Family Internet Business Politics Product Reviews Reference & Education Self Improvement Society Sports & Recreation Transportation Travel & Leisure Writing & Speaking Pages Article Directory News Need Donation How Can Physical Therapy Chiropractic Heal Lower Back Pain Health & Fitness | By: David G. Harris (03/28/12) Views: 23 Have you been suffering from lower back pain for quite some time now? Like many others you have probably relied on painkillers and pain-lessening creams and gels.  You might have also blamed the pain on those long hours at office or too much of heavy work at home. It is true that such pains are generally caused by excessive stress. However, the reasons may also be something like an injury, accident or strenuous physical exertion. These factors can make muscles can feel painful and joints can be caught out of correct alignment. Yes, it is true that most of us turn to home remedies like pills and gels once we feel back pains, but the correct thing to do would be to consult an orthopedic specialist. More often than not, the diagnosis we make turns out to be wrong after the doctor checks our x-rays and MRIs. The cause of our pain may or may not be as trivial as we might think it to be. So, why not be sure and get the right treatment for the ailment? When it comes to pain in our lower backs, most of the orthopedics suggests physical therapy chiropractic . It is the work of chiropractors to focus on proper joint motion and nerve flow. Pain often results from  spinal compressions which may have been caused by spinal cord injury or disc degeneration, habitual poor posture, that, over the years, cause tight muscles to compress the spine. This, in turn, leads to nerve restriction. This condition can also lessen the supply of necessary nutrients to the affected part and thus restrict the body’s ability to heal the area. Chiropractors always try to make sure that the innate intelligence that flows in each of us through the nervous system is not impeded. Subluxations or altered joint function can be one of the most important causes of altered innate flow. Most chiropractors suggest physical therapy in order to heal the ailment from its roots. It helps in lessening the pain and increases one’s range of motion. However, one needs to keep in mind that it will not fix the discomfort instantly. The entire process may take a considerable span of time. Generally, electrical muscle stimulation is used to increase circulation, decrease inflammation, or affect a pain block. This kind of muscle stimulation may feel a little prickly or tingly. However, it is in no way uncomfortable and most people experience a great deal of pain relief and muscle relaxation with it. When the condition of lower back pain seems a bit more serious, many doctors suggest mechanical traction therapy as a part of physical therapy chiropractic. The chiropractors use special tables for this kind of treatment. For instance, the low back with herniated discs and the associated pain and inflammation, can be healed with a traction table. This process creates extra spaces between the sections of the vertebrae which allows increased blood flow and re-hydration of a swollen, inflamed disc that may have moved out of its proper position. About the Author David G. Harris David G. Harris is popular physical therapy chiropractic with many years of experience. He finds interest in writing as well and has written many a health article covering diversified topics such as back pain, lower back pain etc. To know more about him and his topics, check out http://www.spinetherapys.com/ . Comments No comments yet! Be the first: Your Response Name E-mail Comment Cancel Most Viewed - All Categories India Tours, Chance To Enjoy the Magic of Festivals in India The Right New York Meeting Facility: For Conferences and Events Olukai Sandals There is certainly recovery hope for alcoholics. GAAP vs. IFRS Easy Woodworking Strategies Bad Credit Car Loan Tips for Customers Birkenstock: Why Buy The Actual Thing? How to find out best locksmiths in your area? Importance  of SMTP relay services Acquiring research content from multiple means SMTP Server and SMTP Mail Server Software Smoothes Sending Messages Article Script