Content-Type: text/html; Charset=iso-8859-1
Cache-control: private

Childbirth Injuries | July 2009 | Physical Therapy Products Subscribe | Advertise | About Us | Contact Us | Home Home | News | Buyer's Guide | Product Guide | Pain Management | Practice Management | Rehab & Fitness | Resources | Expert Insight | Archives Subscribe to Issue Stories Issue Stories Physical Therapy Products - July 2009 Childbirth Injuries by Heather Jeffcoat, DPT Conservative treatment options for postpartum incontinence and pelvic pain Your patient describes the perfect pregnancy and delivery. Everyone in the delivery room told her how smooth it went. At her 6-week checkup, her physician said everything looked great. However, he didn't address how long the incontinence will last. She also reports pelvic pain that is not improving. She is happy about her healthy baby, but frustrated with these symptoms no one told her she would have. With both of these complaints, patients are often embarrassed and hesitant to mention it to their providers, leading to a delay in treatment and recovery. Not many patients know that there are several conservative treatment options PTs can use to treat postpartum incontinence and pelvic pain. INCONTINENCE Frequently, patients have been prescribed Kegels without improvement and have been frustrated. There is a common phrase repeated in medical and Women's Health PT offices: "I do Kegels, but they don't work." A study published in the early 1990s looked at the performance of pelvic muscle exercises after brief verbal instruction. 1 The results showed that 51% of women were performing a Kegel incorrectly at this level of teaching. Worse yet, 25% of women were performing them in such a way that could actually worsen their incontinence. The determination of this study was that simple verbal and written instructions are an inadequate form of teaching Kegel exercises. PTs with the appropriate training are a crucial component in getting these women on the path to wellness. The first item to consider is, does your patient perform a Kegel properly? This is an essential first step in reducing or eliminating incontinence without medication or surgery. When performing a Kegel, your patient should feel only the anus and vaginal openings lift and close. She should not see or feel her adductor or gluteal muscles contract or her abdominal muscles bulge outward. There are various types of biofeedback for the pelvic floor on the market, which aim to train this isolated contraction. These range from inexpensive Kegel exercisers to computerized biofeedback units that provide real-time feedback of pelvic floor and accessory muscle performance. A popular program, Synergy 3D (www.theprogrp.com), provides a variety of visual aids. These range from bar graphs to a rose that will open or close based on your pelvic floor muscle activity. The use of conservative therapy and pelvic floor muscle biofeedback is supported in numerous studies. 2,3 However, depending on the severity of the incontinence and any additional contributing factors (for example, prolapse or pelvic pain), the total duration of therapy may require more than 6 weeks to completely eliminate their symptoms. PELVIC PAIN Pelvic pain is an often neglected problem that many women experience after childbirth. However, when pain persists beyond the first few weeks, patients are hesitant to mention it to their health care providers. Oftentimes when they do, they are told "it will get better with time" and no further support is provided. This pain can persist for weeks, months, and sometimes years. That is a long time to wait, especially if the pain is preventing your patient from returning to exercise, playing with her little one, or even enjoying intimacy with her spouse. There are several potential sources of persistent postpartum pelvic, vaginal, or rectal pain. These include scar tissue hypersensitivity, joint injury, pelvic floor muscle spasm, or peripheral nerve injury or entrapment. After delivery, estrogen levels drop and progesterone levels stay high. This is especially the case if your patient is breastfeeding. This hormonal influence causes dryness of the vaginal tissues. In this case, the solution might be as simple as recommending a water-based lubricant for your patient and instructing her to increase her water intake. Immediate vaginal muscle and skin pain or discomfort is also expected, especially if tearing occurs during the delivery. This can be managed, in part, with frequent ice packs to the perineum. Performing Kegel exercises will also promote healing by increasing local circulation. Keeping the area clean with the use of a perineal irrigation bottle and sitz baths will reduce infection and further assist in the healing process. Additionally, use of a doughnut cushion provides relief for perineal wound pain in some patients by reducing pressure on the perineum when she is sitting. Finally, keeping bowel movements soft will minimize stress on any sutured and healing sites, thereby minimizing pain. This is generally addressed through a prescription such as Colace, increasing water intake, and possible dietary modification. Patients may additionally report vaginal scar pain, either from an episiotomy or natural tearing. The severity of the pain can range from pain and sensitivity at rest, to pain with tampon insertion or intercourse. For some women, the pain is so intense that she minimizes or avoids these activities altogether. Teaching perineal massage over the scar is a helpful initial intervention. Additional stretching and muscle work to the pelvic floor may also be required if increased tone is present. ON THE MARKET The following companies offer products related to incontinence treatment and/or urological care. American Imex (800) 521-8286 www.americanimex.com Astra Tech Inc, Urology Division (877) 456-3742 www.astratechusa.com Coloplast US (800) 788-0293, ext 7800 www.us.coloplast.com The Prometheus Group (800) 442-2325 www.theprogrp.com Thought Technology (800) 361-3651 www.thoughttechnology.com Urocare Products Inc (800) 423-4441 www.urocare.com In another scenario, women may experience immediate, central pubic pain during her vaginal delivery. This could be due to a sprain or separation of the pubic symphysis joint, termed a diastasis pubis. Peripartum pubic separation is reported in the literature as having an infrequent occurrence in as few as one in 521 deliveries. 4 When this separation occurs, the patient will experience pain over the pubic symphysis joint, sacroiliac joints, buttocks, and/or thighs. The patient will report extreme difficulty and pain with turning in bed, transitioning from a seated to standing position, getting in and out of a car, or with weight-bearing activities. Later sequelae may include bladder dysfunction. 5 Early intervention includes providing the patient with a pelvic brace for external support and temporary use of an assistive device, such as a rolling walker. Symptoms usually resolve in 4 to 6 weeks. However, some patients require advanced manual techniques to restore normal alignment and reduce muscle spasm, and instruction in stabilization exercises that will strengthen the area without causing further pain. Coccydynia may occur during the peripartum period as a result of direct injury to the coccyx or coccygeus muscle. These women will primarily complain of pain with sitting. Instruction on proper posture and use of a specialized wedge cushion are important first steps to reduce direct pressure on the coccyx. Oftentimes, pelvic floor muscle spasm is associated with this diagnosis and may require further intervention, such as direct massage and stretch of the levator ani muscles or coccyx mobilization. 6,7 Nerve injury or entrapment is another potential source of pelvic pain. The reported incidence is 0.92% of live vaginal births, 8 but it is generally thought to be much higher. The positioning of the mother may create nerve compression or ischemia. It has been reported that the semi-Fowler-lithotomy position or excessive hip abduction and external rotation are common positions linked to nerve injury. These positions may contribute to femoral mononeuropathy during uncomplicated, vaginal deliveries. 9 The tailor position with prolonged epidural anesthesia has also been suspected in femoral and sciatic nerve traction injuries. 10 The position of the fetus or prolonged pushing can also put adverse tension on nerves. A common site for compression is the obturator nerve. 11 Injury to the pudendal nerve and external anal sphincter injury is associated with occiput posterior presentation at birth and with forceps or vacuum-assisted deliveries. 12,13 Finally, surgical incisions have the potential of creating peripheral nerve injury as well. When nerve input is disrupted in this area, the result is often pelvic pain and/or incontinence. If any of these symptoms are reported or suspected, referral to a PT specializing in women's health would be indicated. To locate one in your area, contact the American Physical Therapy Association Section of Women's Health at or (800) 999-2782, ext 3229. Heather Jeffcoat, DPT , is the director of women's health at a private practice in Encino, Calif ( www.thewellnesspt.com ). She specializes in the treatment of pelvic floor disorders, especially pelvic pain syndromes. She can be reached via e-mail: . For more information, contact . REFERENCES Bump RC, Hurt WG, Fantl JA, Wyman JF. Assessment of Kegel pelvic muscle exercise performance after brief verbal instruction. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 1991;165(2):322–327; discussion 327-329. Hay-Smith EJ, Dumoulin C. Pelvic floor muscle training versus no treatment, or inactive control treatments, for urinary incontinence in women. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2006(1):CD005654. Di Benedetto P, Coidessa A, Floris S. Rationale of pelvic floor muscles training in women with urinary incontinence. Minerva Ginecol . 2008;60(6):529–541. Musumeci R, Villa E. Symphysis pubis separation during vaginal delivery with epidural anesthesia. Case report. Reg Anesth . 1994;19(4):289–291. Snow RE, Neubert AG. Peripartum pubic symphysis separation: a case series and review of the literature. Obstet Gynecol Surv . 1997;52(7):438–443. Maigne JY, Chatellier G, Faou ML, Archambeau M. The treatment of chronic coccydynia with intrarectal manipulation: a randomized controlled study. Spine . 2006;31(18):E621–627. Maigne JY, Chatellier G. Comparison of three manual coccydynia treatments: a pilot study. Spine . 2001;26(20):E479–483; discussion E484. Wong CA, Scavone BM, Dugan S, et al. Incidence of postpartum lumbosacral spine and lower extremity nerve injuries. Obstet Gynecol . 2003;101(2):279–288. al Hakim M, Katirji B. Femoral mononeuropathy induced by the lithotomy position: a report of 5 cases with a review of literature. Muscle Nerve . 1993;16(9):891–895. Ley L, Ikhouane M, Staiti G, Benhamou D. [Neurological complication after the "tailor posture" during labour with epidural analgesia]. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim . 2007;26(7–8):666–669. Massey EW, Stolp KA. Peripheral neuropathy in pregnancy. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2008;19(1):149–162, vii–viii. Tetzschner T, Sorensen M, Jonsson L, Lose G, Christiansen J. Delivery and pudendal nerve function. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand . 1997;76(4):324–331. Tetzschner T, Sorensen M, Rasmussen OO, Lose G, Christiansen J. Pudendal nerve damage increases the risk of fecal incontinence in women with anal sphincter rupture after childbirth. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand . 1995;74(6):434–440. Subscribe to Issue Stories email article | contact editor | print article LOOKING FOR EXPERT ADVICE? Experts here are available to answer all your questions! Please contact us for more information about this feature, or to become an expert. MEDIA CENTER Interactive Media Archives · January 2012 · December 2011 · November 2011 · September/October 2011 · August 2011 · July 2011 · May/June 2011 · April 2011 Product Guide · February/March 2011 · January 2011 · All Archives Newsletter · SOAP Notes · Monthly Top Ten Podcast Series · Pre-Hire Functional Screening · Compliance Update for Rehab Clinics and Practitioners · Active Innovations · Compliance in Rehab Practice: Risk and Rewards · Job Function Matching: Far beyond job descriptions or FCE's · Maximizing Workouts with Recumbent Cross Trainers · Compliance in Rehab · Working within a Network · Managing Change in Today’s Billing, Reimbursement, and HER Environment · Functional Testing and Job Analysis Innovations · Fall Prevention & Balance Assessment · Lifts & Transfers Technology Update · Increase Your Business' Competitive Potential · Exercise Programs Don't End in the Clinic · Trends in Practice Management Software · Trends in Private Practice Physical Therapy · CSM Podcast Webcasts · Accounts Receivable Management and Review: Performance Benchmarks · Unleashing the Revenue Driven Practice · Saunders Cervical Traction · Optimal Ergonomics for Wheelchairs · Implementing the Mini-FCE · Innovations in Upper Body Exercise: Making Exercise as Addictive as Gaming · Considerations for Adding Technology to Your Practice, · Benefits of an Electronic Medical Record & Practice Management System · Trends in Therapeutic Taping · The State of Billing and Revenue for Physical Therapy Practices · Managing Return-to-Work with Functional Screening Resources Calendar Consumer Resources Media Kit Advertiser Index EAB Reprints Submit an Article Home | News | Buyer's Guide | Product Guide | Pain Management | Practice Management | Rehab & Fitness | Resources | Expert Insight | Archives ADDITIONAL ONLINE RESOURCES Allied Media 24X7mag Clinical Lab Products (CLP) Orthodontic Products The Hearing Review Hearing Review Products Rehab Management Physical Therapy Products Plastic Surgery Practice Imaging Economics RT Magazine Sleep Review Subscribe | Advertise | About Us | Contact Us | Home Copyright © 2012 Allied Media | Physical Therapy Produ