
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 00:58:54 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cancer chemo(toxico)therapy revisited and alternative ways of healing Diet UltraSound Diabetes Cancer & Biopsy Germanium Heart Disease Free Radicals IV Chelation Therapy Vibrant Life Home Web Family Of Three Chelation Formulas MSM Other VL Products The Wednesday Letter Frequently Asked Questions Testimonials Karl Loren Web Shopping Cart Separate Search Page or search below Loading Navigation Help Oral Chelation Therapy Other Ingredients Technical Write To Karl Loren Table Of Contents Cancer chemo(toxico)therapy revisited and alternative ways of healing Cancer & Biopsy Cancer chemo(toxico)therapy revisited and alternative
  ways of healing. A thesis presented to the Anglo-American Institute of
  Drugless Therapy and leading to the Degree of Doctor of Naturopathy (N.D.). © 1990 by Dr. 
  Henri  Rosenberg. TABLE OF CONTENTS [Click on the Chapters' names 
  to reach them] Introduction  2 Chapter I : Chemo(toxico)therapy 3 Chapter II : Amygdalin - Vitamin B 99 Chapter III : The Synthetic Physiatrons
  128 Chapter IV : Trypanosoma Therapy 140 Chapter V : Selenium Therapy 146 Chapter VI : The beer's yeast cure 156 Chapter VII : Tumor related indicators
  164 Chapter
  VIII : The Thymus Therapy 188 Chapter IX : The H-11 Therapy 194 Chapter X : Antineoplaston 202 Chapter XI : Gelum Oral RD® 205 Chapter XII : Neoblastine ® 212 Chapter XIII : The WIEDERMANN cure 219 Chapter XIV : Beetroot (juice) as cancer
  therapy 225 Chapter XV : Integral Fasting Therapy 229 Chapter XVI : The Iron Cancer Cure 235 Chapter II Amygdalin - Vitamin B-17 (Laetrile). Background Amygdalin is a natural substance which contains a
  cyanogenradical - a nitriloside - and which can be found in apricot and peach
  stones, as well as in cherry pips, bitter almonds and other stones and pips of
  the amygdalus genus.  Therapeutic amygdalin isknown as laetrile. 
  Properly speaking the words laetrile and amygdalin are not synonyms.  The
  chemical formulation of amygdalin, which as we have already said is a natural
  substance,with the chemical formula D-1-mandelonitrile gentiobioside (1) or D-mandelonitrile
  linked to the disaccharide gentiobiosis (2),formed by two D-glucose molecules. 
  The natural cyanohydrins ofthis group are known as cyanogenic glycoside (3). 
  The empiricalformula of amygdalin is written C20H27N11.  Laetrile on the
  otherhand is a D-1 mandelonitrile-beta-glucuronide and is the result
  ofbreaking amygdalin into mandelonitrile and linking with gluconicacid. 
  Laetrile's empirical formula is C4H15NO7. Fruits of the amydalus genus have long been prized for
  theirhealing properties.  They appear in the herbals of virtually
  allgreat civilizations.  For example, the oldest known known herbal, the
  "Pen Tsao Kang-Mu", attributed to the Chinese Emperor Shennung, and
  dating from 2700 BC, mentions their properties.  The same fruits are
  mentioned in works by Aulus Cornelius Celsus and Scribonius Largus, dating
  from the early first century AD.  Scribonius in particular mentions that
  bitter almond is effective against cancer of the bladder.  The elder
  Pliny discusses the therapeutic effect of oil of bitter almonds on
  condylomatoma.  Subsequently the all too influential Galen recommended
  almonds for liver cirrhosis.  While Priscian and Empiricus used almonds
  to treat tumors. The great Persian apothecary and medical practitioner
  Avicenna used bitter almond oil to treat tumors of the uterus, spleen, stomach
  and liver.  While Maimonides, the renowned Jewish legal thinker and
  physician stressed the importance of bitter almonds and beetroot as
  therapeutically valuable remedies.  In the 13th century Harpestaeng, a
  Danish physician, used almond mixed with honey to treat hardening of the
  spleen, while his contemporary, Myreposos, a Byzantine physician, used almonds
  to treat cancers of the oral cavity.  In the same century too
  Ibn-Al-Baitar was using almonds to treat breast cancers.  Later on, in
  the 16th century, we find a Swiss biologist called Gesner using almonds to
  treat cancer. John Gerard, who published his famous herbal in the mid-17th
  century in London, discusses the therapeutic properties of almonds and was the
  first to report their pain-killing effects.  The great Flemish herbal of
  the same period, compiled by R. Dodoens, recommends the use of bitter almonds
  for "rotting tumors". By the 19th century bitter almonds were an accepted
  treatment for cancer both on the Old Continent and in the New World.  In
  1845, for example, the Parisian Gazette Medicale published an article by the
  Russian physician, Dr T. INOSEMTOFF, Professor at the Imperial University of
  Moscow, who claimed to have successfully halted the further development of two
  cases of metastased cancers using amygdaline. Studies carried out by Sir Robert McCARRISON, Senior
  Physician to the King of England at the turn of the century, indicated that
  the Hunza tribe of Karakorum of north-western Pakistan hardly ever suffered
  from cancer.  Similarly findings by the polar explorer, STEFANSSON,
  showed that the Eskimo tribes are also almost entirely untroubled by cancer as
  long as they live in their native habitat.  Unlike most other populations
  these two groups include large amounts of nitrilosides in their diet, the
  Hunza, for example, by their habit of eating apricot stones, and the Eskimo by
  eating certain polar cherries and the partially digested contents of the
  stomachs of animals killed by them.  Indeed certain animals - largely
  herbivores - do not suffer from cancer.  A good example is the sheep (4). 
  And remarkably enough grass contains 40 g of nitriloside per kg.  It was
  really only in 1920 though that, as a result of the work of Ernst T. KREBS and
  his son and successor Ernst T. KREBS jr., that amygdalin became established in
  the USA, even though a request by KREBS jr. for FDA certification was turned
  down in 1962.  Ever since then a war has been waged in the courts and the
  legislatures between those who support amygdalin therapy and those who oppose
  it.  So far the latter have had the best of it and have succeeded in
  having amygdalin declared illegal. The entire US medical establishment in the shape of the
  AMA, the American Cancer Society (ACS), the National Cancer Institute (NCI),
  and the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research did everything in its
  power to prevent amygdalin therapy gaining a foothold in the US, and when this
  failed, redirected its efforts to stamping out all attempts at applying the
  therapy. Dr Alexander M. SCHMIDT, Director of the all-powerful FDA,
  told the press on March 25, 1974, "Every study to date has not found any
  evidence of efficacy with Laetrile and, if there was one shred of evidence
  from animal or cell systems, I would issue an IND" (IND = Investigation
  of New Drug Status, which permits clinical trials in humans). Mr Robert C. WETHERELL and Mr Gerald F. MEYER, Directors of
  the FDA's office of Legislative Services, declared that for their part
  "no evidence of antitumor activity has been found in any of the
  tests". Dr Frank RAUSCHER, Director of the NCI, speaking in a CBS
  programme broadcast on March 31, 1974, said, "I would certainly not turn
  off Laetrile, if it had an iota of activity that we could pinpoint. 
  Unfortunately there's no evidence at all". Dr Robert M. HADSELL, an official of the NCI's cancer
  communication department distributed a nationwide circular inwhich it was
  stated, "All testing by NCI has found no evidence of activity against by
  cancer by Laetrile". Dr Jesse L. STEINFIELD, head operating surgeon of the USPHS
  stated in a circular dated January 1974 to departmental heads of the respected
  Mayo clinic, "Laetrile has repeatedly been tested in animal tumor
  systems.  There is no basis for the use of Laetrile in man based on data
  derived from experiments in animals". Similarly Dr Charles MOERTEL, also of the Mayo Clinic, sent
  a letter to the Rochester (Minn.) Post Bulletin on January 21, 1974, in which
  he said "Extensive animal tumor studies conducted independently at two
  outstanding cancer research centres, New York Memorial Sloan-Kettering
  Institute and the Southern Research Institute, have shown this drug to be
  totally without evidence of anti-cancer activity". To round off, we can refer to a statement made by Lane
  ADAMS, Chairman of the American Cancer Society, who said in an interview on
  May 6, 1974 that the Sloan-Kettering Institute had no trace whatsoever of the
  anti-tumor effect of Laetrile.  To quote Mr Gerald F. MEYER again,
  "The NCI, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Institute, and others equally
  reputable have tested Laetrile and have found it to have no anti-tumor
  activity". The above quotations from leading figures of the US "medicracy"
  show that the American medical establishment have mobilized their most
  powerful weapons in the war on Laetrile. All the effects of Laetrile have been swept under the carpet. 
  Even the mildest positive statement about Laetrile incurs the wrath of the
  powers that be, even though, as we shall see below, tests with amygdalin in
  animals have clearly and irrefutably demonstrated the activity of Laetrile. A memorandum dated June 14, 1974 from the FDA and sent to
  all FDA departments mades a fierce attack on Laetrile using the regrettable
  procedure we have seen at work elsewhere (see Chapter  ). Under the sub-title "Famous Supporters of
  Laetrile", the FDA memorandum refers to E.T. KREBS jr and his father,
  without, however, mentioning their qualifications and numerous honorary
  titles.  Moreover this memorandum fails to mention that the younger KREBS
  was responsible for giving the name vitamin B17 to amygdalin and that it was
  he who introduced the name nitriloside for all cyanophoroglycoside of dietary
  significance (5). The next figure to receive this treatment in the FDA
  memorandum is Dr Hans NIEPER a highly respected German onco logist (6). 
  While the memorandum does manage to admit that he is the author of a large
  number of papers, it forgets to add that these have been published in highly
  respectable scientific journals.  What the memorandum does say is that
  these papers produce no adequate support for the laetrile thesis.  The
  FDA apparently considers this refutation by fiat to be adequate.  The
  inquisition could not have done it better. The last figure to be honoured in this way was Dr Dean
  BURK.  This biochemist worked for the NCI for close to 45 years and
  became head of the Cytochemical Section of the NCI.  The FDAmemorandum
  acknowledges that he is a proponent of Laetrile, but adds that his opinion is
  not shared by NCI's administrators, nor by the Public Health department of
  HEW, of which the FDA is an offshoot, nor by the "Academic
  Community" as a whole.  It goes on to say that there is not a single
  trustworthy scientific study in support of BURK's thesis. This memorable memorandum closes with the following advice
  to its sub-sections, "Examine the newspapers for announcements of
  forthcoming meetings of the IACVA, CCS, and the Committee for Freedom of
  Choice in Cancer Therapy.  Try to be present at the meeting.  If
  Laetrile is discussed and it appears to be possible to obtain Laetrile other
  than by going abroad try to obtain all the details.  Take a copy of all
  proffered literature.  Take down the names of companies whose products
  are mentioned at these meetings.  Listen carefully to the speakers,
  summarize their speeches and pass them onto us. One cannot help but wonder why officialdom goes to such
  great lengths to suppress laetrile.  Apparently no avenue has been left
  unexplored in order to sink the laetrile therapy, attacks have been launched
  in the courts, and the police and even undercover agents have been deployed in
  an effort to stop people using laetrile.  Such measures seem to be
  excessive, especially as the therapy has been demonstrated to be non-toxic,
  leaving aside the problem of whether it is effective against cancer or not. To date, however, the medical establishment has not dared
  to maintain that Laetrile is toxic, if only for the fact that such a statement
  would be quite untenable. The non-toxicity of amygdalin has been well-established ever
  since the appearance in 1887 of the book "Die Glycosides" by Otto
  JACOBSEN, in which the author states "Das Amygdaline ist nicht giftig". 
  In support of this statement he provides a hundred odd references drawn from
  20 years of practice prior to 1887. Similarly DAVIDSON (7) writing in 1944 also maintains that
  amygdalin has no side-effects when injected (8). In 1948 HIMWICH and SAUNDERS calculated that the liver of a
  dog can convert 4015 mg of cyanide into non-toxic thiocyanate in the space of
  just 15 minutes.  The skeletal muscles can detoxify a further 1763 mg of
  cyanide in the same period, making the dog's total detoxification capacity
  5778 mg every 15 minutes. Since then a number of acute, sub-acute, and chronic
  toxicity tests have been carried out with the oral, intra-muscular,
  intra-peritoneal and intravenous administration of amygdalin to mice, rats and
  dogs, which Acute or cumulative toxicity was not found in any type of
  animal even with doses of 100 times the maximum intravenous dose used in human
  therapy (9).  The tests also revealed that pure amygdalin is less toxic
  than ordinary sugar (glucose).  Pure amygdalin was moreover found to be
  non-antigenic and therefore incapable of provoking reactions to a foreign
  protein. The organs of the experimental animals were also examined
  for possible toxic damage, without any relevant damage ever being discovered. 
  These animal experiments were repeated by MANNER in 1977 (10).  MANNER
  also found incontrover-tible experimental proof of the absolute non-toxicity
  of amygdalin. A comparison of the supposed toxicity of amygdalin to that
  of the more accepted (but often carcinogenic) cancer drugs and even such
  everyday drugs such as aspirin highlights the extent of the hypocrisy of the
  American medical establishment. Toxicity trials in animals of a number of FDA approved
  chemo(toxico)therapeutica resulted in figures that were compared to the
  "toxicity" of laetrile Further evidence of the non-toxicity of amygdalin is the
  fact that it does not appear in the FDA's authoritative Registry of Toxic
  Effects of Chemical Substances. In sharp contrast is that all FDA recognized
  chemotherapeutica which are effective against neoplasms are listed as highly
  toxic and carcinogenic (11). The bitter war of the US medical world against Laetrile,
  recognized as non-toxic by the FDA, and waged despite the many successful
  (even with the most unfavourable interpretation) and promising animal trials
  detailed below, can only be understood when considered in the light of chapter
  .... (12). Animal Trials with Amygdalin 1. Toxicity Tests We have already referred to MANNER's toxicity tests. 
  MANNER (13) first of all carried toxicity tests out to determine the LD 50,
  that is the lethal dose for 50 % of the animals.  From this it appeared
  that daily doses of 2500 mg/kg per day caused absolutely no harm to animals,
  indicating that parenteral use of amygdalin appeared to be wholly non-toxic. Opponents of amygdalin therapy have responded to this by
  saying that the drug is non-toxic because it is passed in the urine without
  change.  For this reason MANNER carried out tests on the intermediate
  metabolism of amygdalin.  The test comprised a colometric measurement of
  the metabolic waste products of cyanides and benzaldehyde in the urine, i.e.
  thiocyanate and hippuric acid.  The greater the quantity of amygdalin
  injected, the greater should be the quantity of decay products measured in the
  urine using colorimetric methods.  These expectations were confirmed
  indicating that the organism does in fact react to the administration of
  amygdalin and is capable of breaking it down.  MANNER then measured the
  toxic effects of amydalin on mouse embryos.  From this it appeared that
  amygdalin had no toxic effects on the foetus or that the substance is
  incapable of traversing the placenta.  Whatever the case may be it is not
  harmful during pregnancy. 2. Animal Trials on the Anticarcinogenic Effects of
  Amygdalin a. Scind Laboratories In 1968 the Scind Laboratories of the University of San
  Francisco (USA) carried out amygdalin trials on 400 rats with WALKER's
  carcinoma (200 treated and 200 controls).  The dose was 500 mg/kg per
  day.  The results indicated a significantly longer life for 80 % of the
  animals receiving amygdalin.  NCI Director Carl BAKER wrote to
  Congressman Edwin E. Edwards in 1971 about these results, "The results
  ... undoubtedly indicate some effectiveness against animal tumors. b. Pasteur Institute Dr T. METIANU of the Pasteur Institute of Paris, France,
  conducted trials in association with the French Ministry of Agriculture on
  human cancers transplanted in mice.  The researchers administered daily
  doses of 500 mg per kg body weight of amygdalin and were able to achieve a 100
  % increase in life expectancy and the total inhibition of tumor growth. c. The VON
  ARDENNE Institute The East German VON ARDENNE Institute (13) of Dresden
  investigated the effects of bitter almonds amygdalin taken ad libitum in a
  chow diet in mice with implanted EHRLICH ascites carcinoma.  The
  implantation took place 15 days prior to the administration of treatment. 
  The researchers observed significant increases in life expectancy as well as
  the inhibition of tumor growth (14). In further trials in rats which were injected with both
  amygdalin and beta-glucosidase, M. VON ARDENNE and associates were able to
  obtain "results in growth inhibition and regression which appeared to
  most effective abd which could be favourably compared to (conventional)
  chemotherapeutica". VON ARDENNE ascribes the effectiveness of the therapy to
  the lyosomal cytolytic chain reactions (15), to various well understood
  mechanisms of amygdalin (16), and to the stimulation of the body's defenses
  (17)(18). d. Southern Research Institute These were the first animal trials to be carried out by the
  US medical establishment, namely on behalf of the NCI.  They were
  performed in December 1973 on 280 mice with Lewis lung carcinoma in the
  Southern Research Institute (SRI) in Birmingham, Alabama. The SRI experimenters came to the conclusion that amygdalin
  had "no proven effect in Lewis lung carcinomas". These conclusions came in for considerable criticism by
  Dean BURK, NCI associate and Head of the NCI's Cytochemical Section.  He
  contested the NCI conclusion most forcefully and began his own trials, aided
  by his own thorough knowledge of statistical theory (19).  In doing so he
  sought the advice of numerous biologists and other scientists such as Dr
  Harris H. LLOYD and Dr J.G. MAYO, both of the SRI, Dr. Lawrence MUENZ, Dr John
  GART and Dr James L. MURRAY, all three of the NCI, Dr John HEARON of the
  National Institute for Health, Dr Peter STACPOOLE of the University of
  Tennessee's medical school, Dr Vincent LISANTI of the Council of Tobacco
  Research N.Y., and finally the advice of the authority on statistics already
  referred to, Dr W. Edward DEMING.  It is interesting to add that for the
  last 30 years or so Japanese scientists have awarded a annual medal known as
  the Japanese Deming Medal. BURK succeeded in refuting the SRI report first of all by
  demonstrating that the statistical method used, the Median Life Span Analysis
  method, was not suitable for this application and could be unreliable. 
  Even so the results for ILS (increased life span) of 41 %, 51 % and 30 % (an
  average of 41 %) using this method lay above the accepted minimum significance
  level of 25 % for mouse carcinoma. BURK furthermore delved into the NCI archives to produce
  reports on earlier tests with Lewis carcinoma, from which it appears that this
  sort of cancer barely reacts at all to conventional chemotherapeutica. 
  Considered in this light the extension of survival time for 41 % of Lewis lung
  carcinomas becomes very significant indeed.  If the more suitable Median
  Longevity Index Analysis method had been used the effectiveness of amygdalin
  in extending survival times would have shown up better.  The following
  illustration highlights the difference between the two statistical methods: in
  the SRI method a mouse which survives 30 days is equivalent to a mouse which
  survives 20 and 10 days.  It is thus not difficult to see why the 41 %
  increase in survival obtained by the SRI scientists is a low estimate of the
  reality. A last argument in favour of BURK's interpretation of the
  SRI experiments, is that when the results are reinterpreted they broadly agree
  with the findings of the Pasteur Institute, the VON ARDENNE Institute, and the
  SCIND Institute. e. Sloan Kettering Institute A major step was the permission obtained by the Sloan
  Kettering Institute for Cancer Research to carry out trials of amygdalin in
  animals.  Trials were then carried out in 1973 and 1974 under the
  leadership of Dr Kanematsu SUGIURA.  The decision of the Institute to
  proceed to trials was not spontaneous and was the result of official pressure,
  itself a consequence of public pressure (20). Whatever the case may be, SUGIURA submitted his findings in
  a Sloan Kettering Institute report on two series of trials in mice. In both series of trials in mice, amygdalin prevented the
  phenomenon, observed in the controls, of metastasis in the lungs of natural
  breast cancers (CD8FI) in mice.  Only 17.4 % of the mice treated with
  amygdalin showed secondary cancers or lung metastases, while among the
  controls this figure was 78.2 %. These results were, however, not repeated in the second
  trial.  The explanation lay in the fact that amygdalin of a different
  origin was used.  A third series of tests using the original amygdalin
  preparation was thus carried out. In the third series SUGIURA succeeded in confirming the
  original results.  Lung metastases were observed in 11 % of the mice
  compared with 78 % in the controls. A report on a fourth series of trials carried out in CD8F1
  mice was made on September 30, 1974.  The spontaneous breast cancers
  developed in both groups but with different incidences.  Only 48 % of the
  amygdalin mice developed breast cancers compared with 70 % of the controls. 
  Lung metastases were observed in 22 % of the amygdalin mice compared to 75 %
  of the controls. A report on a fifth trial with spontaneous breast cancers
  in Swiss albino mice was leaked on February 8, 1975.  The growth of small
  tumors (less than 1.5 cm across) could be inhibited in 51 % of the amygdalin
  mice, compared to 29 % in the controls.  The effectiveness of amygdalin
  on lung metastases was again confirmed: no lung metastases in 77 % of cases in
  the amygdalin group compared to only 7 % in the control group. All in all these were very promising results for the
  amygdalin cancer therapy.  Nevertheless (or perhaps because they were so
  favourable (21)) the Sloan Kettering Institute failed to publish them and it
  was only thanks to a nameless employee that the information became known
  publicly.  Copies of the report were sent to the press accompanied by an
  unsigned letter on the Sloan Kettering letterhead requesting the publication
  of these promising results (22). f. Trials in animals by MANNER and associates MANNER and associates (23) investigated the possible
  synergetic effects of amygdalin, emulsified vitamin A, and WOBE MUGOS enzyme
  preparation (24) on female C3H/HeJ mice with primary C3HBA tumors of the
  breast. As soon as the tumors grew to about 4 to 6 mm across the
  mice were involved in the experiment and were given a daily dose of 500 mg per
  kg of body weight of amygdalin, 500 IE A-MULSIN® administered orally, and
  intra-tumoral injections of 25 mg WOBE MUGOS ® every two days. The results were spectacular.  In the controls the
  tumor mass continued to grow unimpeded, while in the mice receiving treatment
  the tumor mass regressed completely in 89.3 %, and partial regression was
  observed in the remaining 10.7 %. 3. Clinical Trials The refusal of the US Food and Drug Administration to issue
  an IND has meant that all trials on humans are forbidden in the US. 
  Therapeutical use, even in terminal cancers, is forbidden as well, and opens
  the user to prosecution.  The FDA, need we add, has not hesitated to
  start criminal proceedings against offenders. Even so the number of laetrile patients in the US is
  estimated at 70,000 and a thousand or so therapists are thought to be using
  it.  Outside the USA amygdalin is used in about 20 countries.  Among
  non-US practitioners who warmly recommend the use of amygdalin are Dr Hans
  NIEPER, Director of the Medical Department of the Silbersee Hospital in
  Hanover (FRG), Dr N.R. BOUZIANE, Director of the Research Laboratory of the
  Ste. Jeanne d'Arc Hospital of Montreal (Canada), Dr Ernesto CONTRERAS of the
  Good Samaritan Cancer Clinic in Tijuana (Mexico), Dr Manuel NAVARRO, Professor
  in Medicine and Surgery at the Santo Tomas University in Manila (Philippines),
  Dr David RUBIN of Jerusalem (Israel), Dr G. MAISIN of the Catholic University
  of Leuven (Belgium), Dr Ellore GUIDETTI of Turin University (Italy), and Dr
  Shigeaki SAKAI of Tokyo (Japan). The numerous therapeutic successes which these physicians
  claim to have experienced with amygdalin in daily practice must be worth
  following up with the best clinical tests. How does Amygdalin work? The first stage is the hydrolysis or splitting of amygdalin
  (D-1-mandelonitrile-B-D-glucoside-6 B-D-glucoside or D-1-mande-lonitrile
  gentiobioside) under the influence of B-glucosidase, in a reaction which
  leaves this enzyme unaltered.  The hydrolysis of amygdalin by certain
  enzymes such as B-glucosidase (or D-emulsine in plants) or by acids is an
  established fact and is reported in the literature by KRIEBLE (25), VIEHOEVER
  and MACK (26) and HALSMAN and KNIGHT (27).  The distribution through the
  body of B-glucosidase, however, is still a matter of discussion. Some workers such as MELLOR and associates (28), VON
  ARDENNE and associates (29), and HAWKSWORTH and associates (30) are of the
  opinion that it is only found in the liver and intestines (31).  Others
  think that it is more likely to be found in nerve tissue.  Traces of B-glucosidase
  have indeed been found in the blood but it is still not clear if this plays a
  role in the hydrolysis of amygdalin (32). Whatever the details of the process the net result is that
  the original amygdalin is transformed into D-1-mandelonitrile-B-D-glucoside +
  glucose by the splitting off of a glucoside. The original mandelonitrileglucoside is stereoisometric. 
  The d-isomer is known as prunasine and the l-isomer as sambuni-grine, while
  the d+l-g stereisomer is called prulaurasine.  The release of cyanide and
  benzaldehyde in a later stage thus depends on one of these three isomers. 
  A discussion of the stereochemical properties of the three isomers and their
  reactions would go beyond the scope of this book.  The interested reader
  is referred to BRADFORD and ALLEN (33).  For our purposes it is enough to
  know that the l-isomer prunasine is formed.  There are three hypothetical
  routes for the further dissociation of prunaside-glycoside. Path I Again under the influence of the B-glucosidase enzyme the
  prunasineglycoside enzyme hydrolyzes to D-d-mandelonitrile + glycose with the
  second glycoside being released. In this hypothesis (unstable) D-d-mandelonitrile + glycoside
  spontaneously decays into poisonous cyanic acid (HCN) and benzaldehyde. Path II This path assumes the intervention of another enzyme in the
  further decay of the prunasineglycoside.  Called prunasinelase it leads
  to the creation of glucose and D-1-mandelonitrile, which is in turn converted
  by hydroxynitrileyase into benzaldehyde and HCN. Path III Prunasineglycoside is catalyzed in a two-stage oxidation
  process into laetrile-glucuronide (D-1-mandelonitrile-B-glucu-ronide) by the
  successive action of B-glucosidase with the formation of D-d-mandelonitrile +
  glucose and subsequent transformation into laetrile-glucuronide by the
  intervention of the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzyme.  According to
  LEVVY and CONCHIE (34), MIETTINEN and LESKINEN (35), WHITE, HANDLER and SMITH
  (36) UDP-glucurono-syltransferase is found in the liver and kidneys.  The
  laetrile-glucuronide is then further broken down by the lyosomal enzyme B-glucuronidase
  into D-1-mandelonitrile and glucuronic acid and decays yet further under the
  influence of hydroxinitrilease into HCN and benzaldehyde (37). According to FISHMAN and ANLYAN (38) the activity of B-glucuronidase,
  present throughout the body, is more active in cancer cells because of leaks
  in the lyosomal membrane, characteristic of cancer, and is also present in the
  serum as a result of leakage through the plasma cell membrane (39). THE KREBS HYPOTHESIS The three (hypothetical) routes describe all eventually
  lead to the formation of HCN and benzaldehyde.  The last link in the
  selective action against cancer of both substances was described by KREBS jr.
  and is known as the KREBS hypothesis.  First of all, however, an
  understanding is necessary of the ability of healthy cells to withstand the
  toxic effects of free cyanide, in contrast to cancer cells.  A mechanism
  of this sort would explain the selective effect of amygdalin.  Indeed any
  non-selective action would be fatal, with cyanide and benzaldehyde attracting
  normal as well as cancer cells.  This was why a possible cyanide therapy
  of cancer was discarded as impracticable and why KARCZAG abandoned his efforts
  in this direction in 1927. The body has three lines of defence against free cyanide. 
  In empirical terms there is no doubt at all about the fact that we regularly
  consume foodstuffs containing small quantities of cyanide without suffering
  any ill effects.  In 1966 OKE, followed in 1968 and 1969 by OSUNTOKUN,
  provided experimental proof of these empirical observations.  In 1970
  OSUNTOKUN confirmed themwith experiments in rats (40). 1) It is known that HCN in a Na2SO3 milieu is converted
  into non-toxic thiocyanate (SCN) under the influence of rhodanese (also known
  as thiosulphate sulphurtransferase or transulpherase), an enzyme first
  investigated in 1933 by LANG (41). According to DE DUVE (42) and HIMWICH (43) rhodanese is a
  mitochondrial enzyme with a molecular weight of 37000 possessing a disulphide
  bridge.  This bridge can be broken down by the thiosulphate ion, with the
  release of non-toxic Na2SO3 and SCN, which is collected by the thymus and
  eventually secreted into the urine.  Rhodanese is present in all
  (healthy) tissue, and particularly in the liver.  The question then
  remains of why cyanide is so toxic to humans, if the body has such an
  effective way of dealing with it.  The answer is that large-scale
  detoxification breaks down because of limitations on the available sulphur. 
  Cyanide penetrates the cell very rapidly, while the sulphur-rich thiosulphate,
  essential for cyanide detoxification, enters the cell only very slowly. 
  The result is that the greater part of the thiosulphate leaves the body in the
  urine before it has had the chance to react with the cyanide.  In 1934
  CHEN showed that by administering thiosulphate the minimum lethal dose could
  be raised by a factor of 3 or 4, depending on the dose of thiosulphate
  administered.  Another of the body's sources of sulphur is
  3-B-mercaptopyruvate, which is formed when cystine and the sulphur-rich amino
  acid cysteine are transformed into pyruvic acid, which is part of the aerobic
  metabolic process. In 1953 WOOD and FIELDER (44) established that
  mercaptopyruvic acid also contains sulphur and transform HCN to non-toxic
  thiocyanate just as quickly as thiosulphate. 2) The second detoxification process of the human body
  bonds the cyanide to hydroxycobolamine in the liver, where cyanocobolamine or
  vitamin B-12 is created under the influence of rhodanese.  In 1952
  MUSHETT (45) and others showed experimentally that by administering
  hydroxy-cobolamine to rats their resistance to cyanide poisoning could be
  raised.  The double detoxification process in which rhodanese plays a
  central role is thus well established and was again confirmed by AURIGAS and
  KOJ (46) in 1975. 3) The third and last detoxification process has to do with
  the role of CO2.  IN 1952 BOXER and RIKARDS (47) used 14CN as a
  radioactive tracer in dogs to demonstrate that the marked product was present
  in the exhaled CO2. The KREBS hypothesis on the last link in the decay of
  amygdalin and the selective neo-plastic action thus developed as follows. In 1946 MENDEL, RUDNEY and BOWMAN (48) and GIORDANO et al.
  in 1956 (49) stressed the high content of rhodanese and low concentration of
  B-glucuronidase in normal tissue in contrast to cancer cells where high
  concentrations of B-glucuronidase and low concentrations of rhodanese are
  found (50). BRAUNSTEIN et al. observed that (51) cancer cells
  (carcinoma, melanoma and multiple myeloma) produce HCG hormone (52). 
  According to SANCHEZ and BELTRAN (53) this hormone tends to block rhodanese
  synthesis and consequently the conversion of cyanide into non-toxic
  thiocyanate in the cancer cell. The HCN, or better the cyanide ion (CN-), released in the
  cancer cell by the higher level of B-glucuronidase in the pathological cell is
  thus not rendered harmless by the normal protection mechanisms present in the
  healthy cells.  The protective rhodanese is not present in the cancer
  cell and the CN-ion kills the cancer cells by reducing the enzymatic activity
  of the cell.  The mechanism by which cyanide cripples enzyme function is
  as follows.  The cyanide attaches itself to those enzymes with a metallic
  component and which are responsible for aerobic cell metabolism. When the cyanide bonds with the copper components of
  cytochromoxidase the oxidizing function of the enzyme is blocked (54). OKE (55) found that this resulted in a classic example of
  histotoxic anoxine (i.e. cell intoxication by reducing the oxygen supply) as
  described in 1931 by PETERS and VAN SLYKE (56). When cyanogenic substances (including cyanogenic fruit and
  plants) are consumed the cellular detoxification mechanism converts the free
  cyanide into non-toxic thiocyanate. In the human body thiocyanate is apparently stored in the
  thyroid gland (57).  If the thiocyanate level is high the iodine content
  of the gland falls and reduces the synthesis of thyroxin (a natural blood
  pressure controller) (58).  If the iodine level drops below a certain
  critical value, and sometimes even with mild iodine deficiencies, a rising
  thiocyanate level (caused by cyanide detoxification) will magnify the effects
  of iodine deficiency and its pathological effects (such as endemic goitre, LBT,
  etc.).  By increasing the iodine content of the diet, the loss of iodine
  can be compensated and the iodine content of the gland can be kept at
  desirable levels. This explains why iodine is so important in amygdalin cancer
  therapy.  In this connection, furthermore, it is interesting to recall
  the high iodine P.S. therapy of SOLOMIDES (59). Benzaldehyde, the second toxic product released by the
  decay of amygdalin also has a specific and selective effect on cancer cells
  (60).  Normal cells have a high oxygen content and according to JOHNS
  (61) the benzaldehyde will be quickly oxidized to benzoic acid under the
  influence of aldehydeoxidase.  By combining with glycine (one of the 20
  alpha-amino acids) from the cell protein it forms hippuric acid, which is then
  secreted in the urine.  This will in contrast not occur in cancer cells. 
  The presence of cyanide inhibits the action of aldehydeoxidase (62), with the
  result that the benzaldehyde is not converted to benzoic acid.  Moreover
  the benzaldehyde attracts the cell cholesterol and affects other cell lipids
  with the result that the vital membrane of the cancer cell is destroyed. As like all cells, cancer cells depend on a double sugar
  metabolism, the aerobic (respiratory) and anaerobic (fermentative)
  metabolisms, the influence of cyanide on the aerobic metabolism (by inhibiting
  the cytochro-moxidase) is only of limited use.  The alternative anaerobic
  cell metabolism can not be directly attacked by cyanide and the cancer cell
  can fall back on its anaerobic metabolism in order to survive, and HARROW and
  MAZUR (63) have shown that this is indeed so. Benzaldehyde, though, is capable of attacking the
  alternative metabolism.  Recent studies have revealed that benzaldehyde
  inhibits the mitochondrial enzyme sodium, potassium and magnesium adenosinetri-phosphatase
  (ATPase), in turn inhibiting the conversion of the ATP into ADP (adenosinediphosphate)
  under the influence of ATPase (64). This results in the inhibition of the aerobic glycolysis
  and brings about a fall in the glucose consumption of the tumor cell (65). 
  The energy source for anaerobic glycolysis is thus blocked, demonstrating the
  synergy between cyanide (which blocks aerobic glycolysis) and benzaldehyde
  (which blocks anaerobic glycolysis).  The general synergetic effects of
  the decay products of amygdalin has been stressed by BURK, McNAUGHTON and VON
  ARDENNE (66). Pain-relieving Effects This synergetic effect also applies to the empirically
  observed pain-relieving effect of amygdalin. We know from work carried out by BARKER and LEVITAN (67) that
  benzaldehyde brings about a change in the permeability to sodium and potassium
  of the nerve membranes.  Benzaldehyde and its metabolite benzoic acid
  produces an increase in membrane permeability for potassium (K+) and a
  corresponding reduction in permeability for sodium (Na-) so that nerve
  activity is diminished.  This helps to explain the clinically observed
  pain-relieving effect of amygdalin. Extended contact of benzaldehyde with blood results in the
  formation of methemoglobin, which has a local anaesthetic effect. Apart from the twin pain-relieving action of benzaldehyde,
  JACQUIER's theory (68) suggests that it has the power to produce peroxides in
  the cancer cell.  This would mean that not only the cyanide ion but the
  peroxides produced by the benzaldehyde as well can destroy the cancer cell by
  lysis (particularly on the membrane).  Once again this brings us very
  close to the theory and therapy of SOLOMIDES (69). How does Amygdalin work? The Hypothesis of PASSWATER AND BREWER According to PASSWATER and BREWER laetrile works
  essentially as follows.  The attachment of carcinogens to cell membranes
  suppresses the transport of oxygen by the membranes.  The conversion of
  dextrose into lactose as a result of the elimination of oxygen gives rise to a
  drop in the hydrogen-ion count (pH) from 7.35 to 6.0.  Lysosome enzymes
  are released, while nucleic and amino acids ferment in the cell as a
  consequence of the above process.  A reaction of lactic acid and lysome
  enzymes with DNA is the result, which in turn leads to the normal DNA-RNA
  (hereditary) reaction and the control mechanism of the cell being destroyed. The therapy indicated is to raise the pH to 9, which can
  theoretically be achieved in persons with tumors with a low pH, by
  administering a suitable nitrile (Laetrile), causing the enzymatic release of
  cyan groups (C-N) in the cell itself. The effect of the absorption of a cyan group on and in the
  cell membrane is that it will bring about a marked increase in the
  permeability of the membrane for cations (by the inclusion of potassium in the
  electromotive series - something wrong here) and will inhibit the expulsion of
  electrons by the phosphor groups (P=O) in the membrane (71). The presence of CN groups on the cell membrane will
  considerably increase the transport of potassium ions in the cell.  As
  under normal circumstances only a small proportion of these ions are related
  to dextrose, the final result is that the increased accumulation of very large
  numbers of electro-positive cations in the cell will tend to raise the pH of
  the cytoplasma. In fact it is possible that, when there are enough cyan groups
  on the surface of the membrane, the cell will become moderately basic, on
  condition that enough potassium, or, more importantly, enough rubidium ions in
  the connecting fluid.  This fact may be of very great importance to
  cancer therapy.  Laetrile is perhaps part of the control mechanism, while
  potassium or rubidium may be necessary for another part.  Laetrile on its
  own is never as effective as when combined with other therapies (72). How does Amygdalin work? The Hypothesis of BREKHMAN and DARDYMOV This hypothesis was developed chiefly by scientists in the
  Soviet Union.  In this hypothesis adaptogens (73) increase the
  non-specific resistance of the body. Certain glycosides and other substances with a very low level
  of toxicity, have been shown to be capable of bringing about a significant
  increase in the capacity of the general immune mechanism to deal with cancer,
  arteriosclerosis, and other chronic degenerative disease. Such adaptogenic glycosides, present in a wide range of
  plants, have proved to be effective in both trials in animals and human
  therapeutic applications in producing a non-specific normalizing effect in the
  immunological mechanism. Probably these substances increase the production of
  antibodies, and are involved in the biosynthesis of proteins and in turn
  influence the nucleic acid mechanism. Moreover general anabolic and anti-oxidizing effects which can
  counter free radial pathology are attributed to these adaptogenic glycosides. Members of this group of adaptogenic glycoside include PANAX
  ginseng and ELEUTEROCOCCUS.  The exact mechanism of these multiple
  influences still has to be uncovered and explained (74). ________________________________________________________________________________ Foot-notes (1) "D" stands for dextro(right)-rotatory isomer
  and "L" for levo(left)rota-tory isomer.  This refers to the
  direction in which the isomers rotate the plane of polarized light passing
  through the complete compound in solution under certain specific conditions. (2)  A gentiobiosis is made up of two D-glucose units
  linked by a beta bond.  See the Merck Index, 9th ed. page 81, Merck and
  Co., Rahway N.J. (1976); (3)  see Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry,
  17, page 519. (1969). (4)  see chapter.... , page .... (5)  Journal of Applied Nutrition, page 74-88 (1970) (6) See the chapter on the NIEPER Cure   , page   
  . (7) DAVIDSON F.R., Synopis of Materia Medica, Toxicology
  and Pharmacology, 3rd ed. C.V. Mosby and Co. (1944) (8) Oral administration is nevertheless 39 to 44 times more
  toxic than parenteral administration.  This supports the consensus among
  laetrile therapists that parenteral administration (im, ip, and iv) is the
  most suitable.  Certain authors are, like RUBIN*, of the opinion that by
  combining oral administration with an overall metabolic treatment, whereby
  certain substances such as emulsin (which contains certain enzymes such as B-prunase)
  are administered, the oral toxicity of amydalin can be avoided. (*) RUBIN D., B-17 Breakthrough in .... (9) (10)  MANNER H.W.,  The non-toxicity of Amydalin
  to laboratory mice, in Sc. Biol. J., May-June 347-349 (1977) see also (11)  See also the Report of the Southern Research
  Institute dated 13.4.1972 carried out on behalf of the NCI (under contract no.
  PH-43-68-998) which examines the possible carcinogenicity of classical
  chemotherapeutica.  Most conventional antineoplastic drugs appear to be
  highly carcinogenic in trials in rats and mice, and in a surprisingly large
  number and variety of their organs. (12)  see chap.    page... (13)  see the chapter on Manfred VON ARDENNE, page ... (14) (15) VON ARDENNE M. en REITNAUER P.G., Versuche zur
  lyosomalen Zytolyse-Kettenreaktion der Krebszellingschadigung, Z. Naturforsch.,
  29c, no 143 (1947) (16) REITNAUER P.G., Mandelsaurenitril-Glykoside in
  Krebsforschung und Krebstherapie, Arzneimittel-Forschung, 22, no 122, page
  1347 (1972) (17) VON ARDENNE M. en REITNAUER P.G., Verstaurkung der mit
  Glukoseinfusion erzielbaren Tumorubersaurung in vivo durch Amygdalin und Beta-Glukosidase,
  Arch. Geschwulstfrsch., 43, no 157 (1974) (18) This is similar to the Russian adaptogen theory of
  amygdalin's action, see below page ... (19) In 1924 BURK completed his formal statistical studies,
  in 1927 he published a first article on statistical analysis and in 1934 he
  co-authored an innovative paper with Hans LINEWEAVER and Dr W. Edwards DEMING 
  in the J. of the Amer. Chemical Society, 56, pps 225-230 (1934).  In 1950
  he published a mathematical biological article jointly with J. CORNFIELD in
  Scientific Monthly, 73, (20) At my instigation, the Memorial Sloan Kettering Center
  is running a series of very serious tests with Laetrile.  I hope this
  will give us some really useful evidence as to whether Laetrile does or does
  not have a truly useful role.  I am not satisfied with simply repeating
  that claims about Laetrile have not been substantiated.  I want to find
  out one way or the other, if we possibly can." These lines were written by Benno C. SCHMIDT, who was
  appointed under the 1971 National Cancer Act by the President as head of the
  Cancer Board in order to supervise the distribution of Federal Cancer Funds
  (which in fiscal 1972-73 came to $ 432,000,000).  In the US Mr SCHMIDT is
  regarded as Mr Cancer. (21)  When pressed to explain why the results of the
  SUGIURA tests were not published Chester STOCK, Vice-President of Chemotherapy
  Research at Sloan Kettering, said that if the earlier positive results had
  been made generally known at that time, all sorts of chaotic situations would
  have resulted.  Robert GOOD, Head of the Sloan Kettering Institute added
  that the methods natural to science were simply not suited to that sort of
  pressure cooker atmosphere. (22) An anonymous letter dated August 23, 1975 written on
  the "Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center" letterhead received by 
  M.L. CULBERT, a journalist, contained the following sentence,"Here are
  some of the results of Sloan Kettering's continuing experiments with Laetrile. 
  Due to political pressures these results are being suppressed.  Please do
  your best to bring these important findings to the attention of the people. KREB's theory is very promising, and Laetrile should
  tested clinically to see if it really holds water". (23)  MANNER H.W., DISANTI S.J., MAGGIO M.I.,
  MICHAELSEN T.L., and ROWE V., How Laetrile, Vitamin A, Enzymes achieved 100 %
  response in mammary cancer in mice, in BRADFORD R.W. and CULBERT M.L., The
  Metabolic Management of Cancer, Ed. The Robert W. Bradford Foundation, Calif.
  (1979) (24)  see the chapter on proteolytic enzymes, page... (25)  KRIEBLE V.K., The Amygdalins and their
  inter-reactions with emulsin, J. Americ. Chem. Soc. 34, pps 716-735 (1912) (26) VIEHOVER A. and MACK H., Biochemistry of Amygdalin,
  Am. J. of Pharm., 107, pps 397-450 (1935) (27) HAILSMAN D.R. and KNIGHT D.J., The Enzymic Hydrolysis
  of Amygdalin, Biochem, J., 103, pps. 528-534 (1967) (28) MELLOR J.D. and others, Intracellular Distribution of
  Steroid Glycosidase of Rabbit Liver, in the Canadian Journal of Biochemistry,
  51, page 1292 (1973) (29) VON ARDENNE M. and REITNAUER P.G. Tumor
  Hyperacidulation through Intravenous Glucose Infusion enhanced by Amygdalin
  and B-Glucosidase Application, in Arch. Geschwulstfrsch., 45 page 135 (1975).
  Chem Abstr., 83 94690 p. (1975) (30)  HAWKSWORTH G. and others, Intestinal Bacteria
  and the Hydrolysis of Glycosidic Bonds in J. of Med Microbiology, 4, page 451
  (1971) (31) in this view the production of B-glucosidase is
  dependent on the intestinal flora, and is thus influence by diet. (32) BOSMANN H.B., Red Cell Hydrolases, Journal of Membrane
  Biology, 4, page 113 (1971) (33) BRADFORD R.W. and ALLEN H.W., The Focal Action of
  Amygdalin in the Metabolic Therapy of Cancer, in BRADFORD R.W. and CULBERT M.L.
  op cit. page 27. (34) LEVVY G.A. and CONCHIE J., B-glucuronidase and the
  hydrolysis of glucuronides in Glucuronic Acid - free and combined (G.J.
  DUTTON, ed.), Academic Press N.Y., page 301-357 (1966) (35) MIETTINEN T.A. and LESKINEN E., Glucuronic acid
  pathway, in FISHMAN W.H. (ed.) Metabolic conjugation and metabolic hydrolysis,
  Academic Press, N.Y. page 157-237 (1970) (36)  WHITE A., HANDLER P. and SMITH E.L. Principles
  of Biochemistry, 5th Ed., McGraw Hill Book Co., N.Y. page 1296 (1973) (37)  According to RIEDERS this is not the result of
  an enzymatic process but a spontaneous occurrence in mildly alkaline milieu,
  and is thus pH dependent. RIEDERS F. Formation of inorganic Cyanide from aliphatic
  nitriles in rabbits, in Federation Proceedings, 11 page 386 (1952). (38)  FISHMAN W.H. and ANLYAN A.J., A comparison of
  the B-glucuronidase activity of normal, tumor, and lymph node tissues of
  surgical patients, in Science, 106, page 66-67 (1947) (39)  According to CZARNECK and others The
  simultaneous administration of 500,000 I.E. emulsified vitamin A can increase
  the leakage of B-glucuronidase from a lyosomal milieu by a factor of 400. CZARNECKI M. and others Physiopathological Role of
  Lyosomes, in Polskie Arhiwum Medycyny Wewnetrznej (Polish Archives of Internal
  Medicine). Chem Abstr. 71. 457v. (1969). (40)  OSUNTOKUN (41)  OKE O.L. The role of hydrocyanic acid in
  nutrition, Wld. Rev. Nutr. Diet, II, pps 170-198 (1969) (42)  DE DUVE C. et al., Tissue Fractionation Studies,
  in Biochemical Journal, 60, page 606 (1955) (43)  HIMWICH W.A. et al., Enyzmatic conversion of
  cyanide to thiocyanate, in the American Journal of Physiology, 153, page 348
  (1948). (44)  WOOD & FIEDLER, J. Biol. Chem., 205, page
  231 (1953) (45)  MUSHETT et al. Por. Soc. Exp. Biol., N.Y., 81,
  p. 234 (1952) (46)  AURIGA M. and KOJ. A., Protective effect of
  rhodanese on the respiration of isolated mitochondria intoxicated with
  cyanide, Bull. Polish Sci. Ser. Biol. 23(5), pps. 305-310 (1975). (47)  BOXER and RIKARDS, Arch. Biochem., 39, p. 7
  (1952) (48)  MENDEL B., RUDNEY H. and BOWMAN M.C. Rhodanese
  and the Pasteur Effect, Cancer Research, 6, page 495 (Abstract) (1946) (49) GIORDANO, G., VIOLANTE A., LERENZETTI G. and SAPLO U.,
  Rhodanese activity on the neoplastic and hemopoetic tissue of rats with
  myeloma in leukemic phase, Biochem. Appll., 3, page 84 (1956). (50)  FISHMAN and ANLYAN (op cit) were able to show
  that the B-glucuronidase had incidences from 100 to 3600 times higher in
  cancer tissues from the breast, uterus and stomach than in the corresponding
  healthy tissue. (51)  BRAUNSTEIN G.D., VAITUKAITIS J.L., CARBONE P.P.,
  and ROSS G.T.,  Ectopic production of chorionic gonadotrophin by
  neoplasms, Ann. Int. Med. 78 page 39-45 (1973). (52)  see the ...... test on page ..... which uses the
  presence of the HCG hormone to detect cancer. (53)  SANCHEZ F.S., and BELTRAN E.C., Variations in
  the rhodanese activity induced by injection of chorionic gonadotrophin, Ann.
  Fac. Vet. Univ., Madrid Inst. Invest. Vet., 3 pps. 78-82 (1951). (54)  SCHUBERT J. and BRILL W.A. Antagonism of
  experimental cyanide toxicity in relation to the in vivo activity of
  cytochrome oxydase, the Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics,
  162, p. 352 (1968) ALBAUM J.T. et al. A spectophotometric study of the
  competition of methemoglobin and cytochrome oxidase for cyanide in vitro,
  Journal of Biol. Chemistry, 163, page 641 (1946) (55)  OKE O.L. op cit. (56)  PETERS J.P. and VAN SLYKE D.D. Quantitative
  clinical chemistry, Williams Co., Baltimore, 2 Vols. (1931) (57)  BRADFORD R.W. and ALLEN W.A. op cit LAGARDE P. Cancers. Lumière sur les therapatiques rejet·Ç·es,
  p. 108 (1980) (58)  N.N. Drill's Pharmacology in Medicine, McGraw
  Hill Book Co. Inc., N.Y. page 1447 (1977) (59)  See the chapter on the SOLOMIDES therapy,
  page... (60)  This is a reference to an experimental
  benzaldehyde cancer remedy developed by Dr Mutsuyuki KOCHI and which is under
  clinical trial in Japanese hospitals.  Trials in animals yielded very
  encouraging results particularly on EHRLICH carcinoma and adenocarcinoma 755. 
  KOCHI and YANO will soon be publishing their results in human therapy. (61)  JOHNS D.G. Human liver aldehyde oxydase:
  differential inhibition of oxidation of charged and uncharged substrates, J.
  Clin. INvest., 46(9), pps 1492-1505 (1967). (62)  SCHUBERT J. and BRILL W.A., op cit. (63)  RACKER E., Bioenergetics and the Problem of
  Tumor Growth, Amer. Scientist, 60, page 56, (1972).  According to VIANNA
  the thiocyanate ion resulting from the detoxification of cyanide also inhibits
  TPAase. (64)  VIANNA A.L., Effects of anions and urea on the
  ATPase and calcium uptake activities of fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum.
  Physiological Chemistry and Physics, 3, page 536 (1971). (65)  ERWIN V.G., KIM J. and ANDERSON A.D., Effects of
  aldehydes on sodium-plus- potassium ion-simulated ATP of mouse brain, Biochem.
  Pharmacol., 24 (22) page 2089-2095 (1975) (66)  BURK D., McNAUGHTON A.R.L. and VON ARDENNE M.
  National Cancer Institute, Bethesda M.D., Hyperthermia of cancer cells with
  amygdalin-glucosidase and synergistic action of derived cyanide and
  benzaldehyde. Panminerva Medica 13, page 520 (1971), Chem Abstracts, 77,
  15036e, (1972) (67) BARKER J.L. and LEVITAN H., Mitochondrial uncoupling
  agents.  Effects on membrane permeability of molluscan neurons, J. Membr.
  Biol., 25 (3-4) pps 361-380 (1976) (68) JACQUIER, ... see also page ... (69) see the chapter on SOLOMIDES, page ... (70) PASSWATER R.A., Cancer and its nutritional therapies,
  Keats Publishing Inc., Connecticut. (1978) PASSWATER R.A. In defense of Laetrile. Let's Live, page
  50 - 55 (June) (1977) (71) Here benzaldehyde may play an important role, as
  explained earlier in the "pain-relieving" part of this chapter (page
  ...) (72) Of course the nutritional therapies and therapies
  which alter cell pH, such a as GELUM ORAL, (see page ...). (73) The term 'adaptogen' refers to substance which
  possesses the property of exerting an 'adaptive' or 'normalizing' effect
  within the general immune mechanism.  The term 'adaptogen' is due to
  Soviet scientists and corresponds broadly to our word 'normalization'. (74) BREKHMAN I.I. and DARDYMOV I.D., New substances of plant
  origin which increases non-specific resistance, Ann. Rev. Pharm., 9, page
  419-430 (1969). PRACTICAL INFORMATION I. MANUFACTURERS 1. AMYGATRILE® : American Biologics 111 Ellis St. at Powell, Suite 300 San Francisco, Calif. 94102 Phone : Calif. residents : (415) 981-8384 Toll free 800 / 227-4473 2. KEMDALYN® : Laboratorios Kem S.A. Av. Madrid y Calle Oslo, n° 422-B Fraccionamiento Costa Azul Playas de Tijuana Tijuana, Baja California Mexico Phone : (903) 38- -1850/5 Mailing address : P.O.B. 4877 San Ysidro, Calif. 92073 3. LAEVALIN® : Vitachem International 241 Hazel Ave. Redwood City, Calif. 94061 Phone : (415) 365-6692 Toll free 800 / 227-4473 4.  Metalbolic Products Mr. Art Usner P.O.B. 3336 Albuquerque, New Mexico 87190 call collect : (505) 296-7300 5.  C.R.W. Rahlstedt G.m.b.h. (Ltd) Chemische und pharmazeutische Warenhandelsgesellschaft
  m.b.H. P.O.B. 73 05 27 Buchwaldstraße, 67 D-2000 Hamburg 73 Federal Reuplic of Germany Phone : (040) 647.41.43 direct from U.S.A. & Canada : 011-49-40-647.41.43 Telex : 2173821 cpwr d. II. FOR MORE INFORMATION ON LAETRILE, ON ECAN APPLY TO
  FOLLOWING ORGANIZATIONS : 1.  Committee for Freedom of Choice in Cancer Therapy,
  Inc. (a non-profit organization) 146 Main St., Suite 408 Los Altos, Calif. 94022 Phone : (415) 948-9475 2.  Contreras Amigros International 519 E. San Ysidro Blvd. San Ysidro, Calif. 92073 3.  Nutrisearch Foundation Redwood City, Calif. 94061 4.  Cancer Control Society (a non-profit educational Society) 2043 N. Berendo Los Angeles, Calif. 90027 Phone : (213) 663-7801 Delaware Chapter 201 Hitching Post Drive Wilmington, Delaware 19803 Phone : (302) 478-4426 Kalamazoo Chapter 2016 N. Westnedge Ave. Kalamazoo, Michigan 49007 Phone : (616) 343-1100 Kansas City Chapter 533 S. Hardesty Kansas City, Missouri 64124 Phone : (816) 231-8237 Mobile Chapter 3915  21st Court East New Port Richey, Florida 33552 Phone : (813) 848-5675 Orange County Chapter P.O.B. 933 Anaheim, Calif. 92805 Sunflower Chapter R.R.  1 Grantville, Kansas 66429 Phone : (913) 289-3607 5.  Robert W. Bradford Research Institute 111 Ellis St., Suite 300 San Francisco, Calif. 94102. 6.  Dr. Harold Manner Metabolic Research Foundation 8001 N. Milwaukee Niles, Illinois 60648 7.  C.R.W. Rahlstedt G.m.b.h. Chemische und pharmazeutische Warenhandelsgesellschaft 
  m.b.H. above-mentioned 8.  Mountainview Medical Association, P.C. Mountainview Medical Bldg. Mountainview Ave. Nyack, New York 10960 Phone : (914) 358-6800 III. CLINICS AND MEDICAL CENTERS : 1.  American Biologics-Mexico Hospital Baja California, Mexico Administration & Admission Headquarters : 111 Ellis St., Suite 300 San Francisco, Calif. 94102 Phone : Calif. Residents : (415) 981-8384 Toll free : (800) 227-4473 International telex : 171791 2.  Centro Médico del Mar Paseo Playas de Tijuana, n° 19 Playas de Tijuana Tijuana, Baja California México Phone : (903) 38-7-1203/4 1222 Hospital del Mar Risco 57 Costa Hermosa Playas de Tijuana Tijuana, Baja California México mailing address : P.O.B. 1561 Chula Vista, Calif. 92012 message phone : (714) 428-6438 3.  Health and Wellness Center of Minnesota, Inc. 8054 Morgan Circle Bloomington Ave. Phone : (612) 888-5002 4.  Mountainview Medical Association, P.C. Mountainview Medical Bldg. Mountainview Ave. Nyack, New York 10960 Phone : (914) 358-6800 5.  Joseph L. Kaplowe, M.D. 195 Sherman Ave. New Haven, Conn. 06511 6.  "Auchenkyle"-Clinic Southwoods Road Troon, Ayrshire Scotland Phone : (0292) 311.414 Jan De Vries, Dr. H. Med.  Ph.D., D.Ac., D.O.N.D. IV. PHYSICIANS FAMILIAR WITH LAETRILE-THERAPEUTICS : 1.  ask for leaflet "Nutritional-minded doctors
  in the U.S. and Canada" published by : Public Relation Service Alacer Corp. Buena Park, Calif. 90622 2.  contact above-mentioned (under II ) organizations
  which will provide you with some lists of physicians. V. PUBLICATIONS : 1.  "The Choice - The International Newsmagazine
  of Metabolic Therapy and Freedom of Choice in Medicine". Official publication of the Committee for Freedom of Choice in Cancer Therapy, Inc. 146 Main Street, Suite 408 Los Altos, Calif. 94022 Phone : (415) 948-9475 2.  Cancer Control Journal Official publication of the Cancer Control Society 2043 N. Berendo Los Angeles, Calif. 90027 Phone : (213) 663-7801 3.  Cancer Book House 2043 N. Berendo Los Angeles, Calif. 90027 distributes books and reprints on nutrition, cancer
  and other nutritionally related diseases. Also : MANUFACTURER : Cyto Pharma de Mexico, S.A. Juan Carrasco, n° 13 Fracc. Soler Appartado Postal 3437 Tijuana, Baja California Mexico Phone : (903) 38-7-15.85 and 15.96 mailing address : P.O.B. 4290 San Ysidro, Calif. 92073 CLINIC : Halstead Preventive Medical Clinix 11155 Mt. View Avenua, Suite A Loma Linda, Calif. 92354 Phone : (714)796-8305 824-1750 Dr.  Henri 
    ROSENBERG , LL.D., Ph.D., N.D. Doctor of Naturopathy Permanent Member of the British Guild of Drugless Practitioners. Home Page -- Karl Loren Web Site Navigation Bar Karl Loren Diet Cancer & Biopsies Oral Chelation High Cholesterol Risk Factor Karl Loren's Personal Diet Diary Ultrasound Technology Karl Loren Personal Plaque Isn't Where They Say It Is Aajonus Vonderplanitz Arthritis Karl's Adventure With The IRS Bones Are Alive Diabetes Table Of Contents Jean Ross Witch Doctors & Ethnobotany Sugar Shopping Cart Order Karl Loren's Book On Heart Disease AIDS Raw Milk Search  This Web Write To Karl Loren Right To Die Why You Should Drink More Water Transfer Factor & The Immune System What Is A Free Radical? Methyl Sulfonyl Methane Taheebo Tea Germanium Corruption In The American Heart Association James Coburn's Use Of MSM To Handle Arthritis Floaters Rather Than Sinkers Toxic Metals Heart Disease Jimmy Keller -- Forbidden Medicine The Links Below Jump To Pages On Whatever Web You Are In Table Of Contents Search This Web Navigation Help Page Write To Karl Loren -- He Pledges To Answer EVERY Personal Message, Personally. 
    Click here or on his name in the box below. The Links Below Are To Various Web Sites Published By Karl Loren Karl Loren Web Vibrant Life Web Karl Loren's Book Super Colostrum Bulk MSM Heart Disease Emmessar Happiness Arthritis Instead Of Chelation Therapy Super Colostrum (2) Karl Loren's Catalog Store Central Page For All 12 Webs! I promise to answer your message -- click here to send me a personal message Dear Karl, SUBSCRIBE: The Wednesday Letter is a free electronic monthly newsletter written and published by Karl Loren.  
        You can view more than 50 back issues of this publication by clicking here .  
        The Wednesday Letter subscription list is maintained on a secure server, no name is ever given or sold to anyone, and it is never used except for this Newsletter.  
        It is automatically published on the Tuesday night just before the first Wednesday of every month.  
        You can subscribe to this free monthly electronic letter by entering your eMail address and name below.  
        You will then automatically receive a request for confirmation, sent to whatever address you have entered.  
        If you do NOT receive this confirmation request, then you will not be subscribed.  
        There may have been an error with your address and you should resubmit.  
        The letter is never sent twice to the same address -- so you do not have to worry about a duplicate subscription. 
        When you receive this confirmation request you must reply to it, or your subscription will not become active.  
        No one can subscribe your name, and address, without you being notified, and if you get an unwanted notice of subscription you only need to DO NOTHING and the subscription will NOT be active. E-Mail Address: First Name: Last Name: REMOVAL: You can remove yourself from the subscription list in several different ways. Click here to read about this entire newsletter system.  
        Every edition of The Wednesday Letter is delivered to your address with YOUR name and address in view on the letter, with a link that allows you to remove THAT name from the subscription list.  
        If you try to send this removal message from an address different from the one you used to send in your original confirmation, then you will get a warning notice first, sent to the subscription address, asking you to confirm that you want to be removed from the list -- by replying to THAT request for confirmation, you will then be automatically removed.  
        Thus, no one else can unsubscribe you, from some other computer, without your knowledge.  
        But, if you send in the unsubscribe notice from the same machine used to receive the Letter, then the removal from the subscription list is automatic. E-Mail Address: Personal Message: When you send a personal message to Karl Loren, you will receive a personal reply as per his instructions.  
        Karl pledges that every personal message will get a personal answer. When you provide your mail address, we will send you free information including our free catalog and a cassette tape lecture by Karl Loren about heart disease, no charge, by mail, even if outside the US.  
        You can select particular information you would lik