<http://sarday.com/migraineheadaches/?p=466>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural Migraine Treatment For Migraine Relief | Migraine Headaches Migraine Headaches Could Your Migraine Headache Be Caused by the Weather? « Eye Migraine – Reasons of the Silent Migraine Natural Migraine Treatment For Migraine Relief March 8th, 2012 . Posted in Migraine Headaches No Comments » Tags: Migraine , Natural , Relief , Treatment Migraines are due mainly to the dilation or swelling of blood vessels in the head. The effects can be excruciating, and while medication can provide relief, it does not do so for everyone. In addition, the body can be over-medicated if drugs are taken as often as migraines can occur. As a result, more and more migraine sufferers are looking to natural migraine relief in the form of therapy, herbs, or supplements. The ancient Chinese technique of acupuncture has been used as a form of natural migraine relief. Acupuncture therapy involves putting very thin needles into the body at various pressure points. It can also be done through the use of heat or pressure on certain areas. It has been found not only to prevent headaches, but also to improve the general health for those persons suffering with migraines. Biofeedback has also been used to provide migraine relief. This technique is used to reduce stress, and provide information about vital signs such as muscle tension, skin temperature and brain waves. Measurement is done by attaching electrodes, (small metal sensors), to the skin. Migraines triggers changes to the blood flow to the brain. With biofeedback training, persons learn to manage their headaches by interpreting their body signals and giving a natural response. It has been found to reduce both the frequency and duration of migraines. Various herbs have also been recommended for natural migraine relief. Among these is butterbur and feverfew. Studies conducted using extracts from the shrub butterbur, have indicated that it helps to prevent migraines. There are some side effects related to its use, so the suggested dose is less than one microgram per day. Feverfew extract is from a plant belonging to the sunflower family. It has been used in Europe for centuries to combat headaches, arthritis and similar pain. Several studies have also been conducted on its effectiveness in the treatment of migraines. These have found that the use of feverfew leads to a decline in migraine frequency. Again, there are some side effects related to its use so it is recommended that you consult a health care practitioner before taking it. Magnesium has also been used as a natural migraine relief. Research has found that some persons who suffer from migraines have low levels of magnesium. Magnesium is important in stabilizing the walls of the blood vessels, and also in helping you to sleep. It has been found that some of the same things that cause the body to run low on magnesium, also trigger migraine headaches. These include stress and alcohol. Taking magnesium does not pose any safety issues. The supplement 5-Hydroxytryptophan, or 5-HTP for short, is also used for natural migraine relief. 5-HTP is actually an amino acid produced by the body. It is made from the essential amino acid found in dietary protein. Increasing 5-HTP levels has been found to reduce the frequency and severe pain of migraines. Natural migraine relief can come in various forms. You can use tension reducing techniques such as acupuncture or biofeedback, or you can opt to use herbs such as feverfew and butterbur, or turn to supplements like 5-HTP. The bottom line is, alternative help is available. Learn to use tried and tested migraine treatment to help get rid of your migraine headaches and get the migraine relief you need. Effective migraine treatment will assist you in controlling your migraine pain. Discover effective back pain exercises that will help you to get the back pain relief you have been looking for. These proven back exercises will help you to become a happier and healthier person. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Recent Posts Natural Migraine Treatment For Migraine Relief Eye Migraine – Reasons of the Silent Migraine Relief From Migraines Now! Accupressure Migraine Headache Relief Migraine Relief Alternative – Relieve, and Prevent the Pain of a Migraine With Acupressure Headaches and Migraines in Kids Relief For Migraine Headaches – Medications Only Hide Your Symptoms Categories Migraine Headaches Tags About Acupuncture Between Cause Causes Chiropractic Chronic Cluster Common Cures Dealing Effective Foods Frequent Getting Headache Headaches Herbal Learn Medication Migraine Migraines Natural Naturally Nutrition Pregnancy Prevention Relief Relieve Remedies Remedy Should Sinus Stages Symptoms Tension There Treat Treatment Treatments Trigger Triggers Types Visual Without Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 Entries (RSS) and