
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 23:41:39 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 18:00:59 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Gestational Diabeties eMedTV Sitemap Pregnancy Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Pregnancy Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Pregnancy Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Pregnancy Articles Video eMedTV Video Pregnancy Video Pregnancy Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Pregnancy Week by Week Pregnant Sex Pregnancy Symptoms Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Gestational Diabetes Clomid Ectopic Pregnancy Postpartum Depression Pregnancy Test How to Get Pregnant Preeclampsia Prenatal Vitamins Folic Acid Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Gestational Diabeties Were you looking for more information about Gestational Diabetes ? Gestational diabeties is a common misspelling of gestational diabetes . Gestational diabetes is one of the most common health problems for pregnant women. The disease is treatable (especially if it is found early in the pregnancy), but health problems for the mother and fetus can occur if it is left untreated. Certain women are at an increased risk for gestational diabetes, including those who are overweight, have had the condition before, or have a family history of diabetes. Treatment should involve a meal plan, physical activity, and insulin (if needed). (Click Gestational Diabetes for more information about the causes, effects, and treatment of this type of diabetes. You can also click on the various links in the box to the right to access specific topics on gestational diabetes.) Advertisement Written by/reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Advertisement Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t