
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 05:42:31 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.16
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.16
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 05:42:32 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

3 Exercises For Lower Back Pain - A Simple Plan For Recovery | Pain Management Skip to content Skip to main navigation Skip to first column Skip to second column Health Tuber Home Health Videos Health Articles Add Health Videos Contact Us Home Pain Management 3 Exercises For Lower Back Pain - A Simple Plan For Recovery 3 Exercises For Lower Back Pain - A Simple Plan For Recovery Many are familiar with these exercises and maybe you have performed them at one time or another. A simple basic exercise plan is sometimes all we need. Have you ever been presented with a simple solution to a problem and you thought to yourself; That's too easy! We often make things harder on ourselves. Here are three simple exercises that you can do for lower back pain that you can go back to if you are having a flair-up or are recovering from an injury. The Press-Up: This exercise takes the pressure off the low back and relieves stiffness in the lower spine and hips. Lie face down on the floor. (You may want to put a pillow under your hips if you have pain when lying flat.) With your hands on both sides of your face, palms down, elbows tucked close to the torso, keep your hips down as you press your head and shoulders up, resting on your elbows. Hold for ten seconds, breathing, then lower slowly. When this gets too easy, lift onto your hands so that there is more curve in your lower back. Perform three sets of ten repetitions. The Cat and Cow Pose: This exercise will improve mobility and stretches the back and abs. Start on your hands and knees, back flat, hands directly below shoulders, fingers spread, knees under hips. With your eyes closed, exhaling, tighten abs and curl your back like a cat, tucking your pelvis, rounding your shoulders and lowering your head to look at your knees. With your eyes closed feel every vertebrae of your spine moving one-by-one. Also feel your muscles stretching and contracting. Get a sense of how you are controlling every movement as you inhale and reverse the pelvic tilt and arch your back bringing your head up, open your eyes and look forward. Repeat ten times slowly focusing on moving each section of the spine individually. Performing this exercise as instructed will help you develop more awareness of your lower back and pelvic floor. Better awareness of this area will help you with posture and injury prevention in the future. The Hamstring Kick: This exercise will stretch the hamstring and calf muscles and help ease sciatic nerve pain. Lie flat on your back. Lift your right leg so that the knee is directly over the hip, foot flexed. Using both hands (or a strap or towel) hold your thigh and lock your leg in place. Keeping your foot flexed, slowly try to straighten your leg. Stop when you feel a gentle pull behind your knee or calf. Point and flex your toes. Hold for ten seconds. Bend your knee slightly. Repeat ten times then repeat with the other leg. If you perform the above muscles, you will experience an improvement in your lower back condition. If you can walk, walking is also highly recommended for lower back conditions, specifically lumbar conditions. Start with 20-30 minutes daily. Make sure to check your posture so that you are not leaning forward while walking. Also watch your pelvis to make sure your buttock muscles are tightened to give your back natural support. These are some simple recommendations that I have found have worked for me and my patients over the years. Of course, this is not meant to take the place of a consult with your physician. This is just a simple plan that may help your lower back get in shape and stay in shape. Health Categories Acne ADD/ADHD AIDS/HIV and Immune System Allergy Arthritis Asthma and Respiratory Brain and Nervous System Cancer Children's Health Cold and Flu Depression Diabetes and Endocrine System Diet and Nutrition Digestive System Exercise & Fitness Family Health Hair Loss Headache Health Articles Heart and Blood Infectious Disease Men's Health Pain Management Senior's Health Skin Health Weight Loss Women's Health Latest Video NuraFlex Reviewed : Does Featured Video ﻿﻿ Diabetes Symptoms & Treat Diabetes Symptoms & Treat 5 Healthy Weight Loss Tip Tips to Promote Good Dige Ways to Help Your Digesti Nutrition & Healthy Eatin Top 5 Exercises for Legs The weight loss and fitness industry has grown at an unbelievable rate over the last few years. Now there are many different workout venues, routines and machines, and people can use all kinds of thin [ ... ] readmore... Circuit Training Brings Results These days, everyone has some sort of weight loss or fitness goal. Whether you are thin or overweight, in shape or out of shape, you most likely want to exercise for one reason or another. Because of  [ ... ] readmore... Other Articles Perms Beauty Magazines and Websites Makeup Inner Beauty Preparing for a Baby About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap © 2011 copyright www.healthtuber.com All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer: The information provided within this website is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for consultation with your physician or healthcare provider. The opinions expressed herein are not necessarily those of the Owners and Sponsors of this site. By using this site you agree to indemnify, and hold the Owners and Sponsors harm