<http://www.sich.co.uk/?p=1518>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
X-Pad: avoid browser bug

Stop smoking new research The Surrey Institute of Clinical Hypnotherapy Helping people makes changes in their life Search Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home What is Hypnosis Analytical Hypnotherapy Treatments Hypnotherapy for Addictions Hypnotherapy for Anxiety Hypnotherapy for Blushing Hypnotherapy for Childbirth Hypnotherapy for Children Hypnotherapy for Confidence Hypnotherapy for Hypertension Hypnotherapy for IBS Hypnotherapy for Insomnia Hypnotherapy for Phobias Hypnotherapy for Psoriasis Psoriasis Case Studies Hypnotherapy for Stress Hypnotherapy to Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy for Weight Hypnotic Gastric Band Weight loss sign up Courses Hypnotherapy Diploma Course Introduction to Hypnotherapy Master Classes Paediatric Hypnotherapy Problem Behaviours / Addictions The Therapist, The Client, and The Symptoms Rates and Dates Therapy Marketing Course Training Video Download prospectus Students comments Testimonials Further Information Media Stories Our Hypnotherapists Recommended Therapists News Contact us Wallington Clinic in Surrey Camberley Clinic in Surrey Richmond Clinic in Surrey Forum Post navigation ← Previous Next → Most smokers want to quit? – Now there’s a surprise! Posted on March 8, 2011 by sichadmin by Paul Howard A Office for National Statistics report, based on research on 13,000 people, has discovered that 63% of smokers in Britain wanted to quit.  Not much of a surprise I hear you saying.  Well it certainly wasn’t to us, but it went on to say that they find it hard to go even a day without smoking.  Again no big surprise.  However what is interesting is that 20% of adults in the UK still smoke.  How can that be, when all the evidence shows that it reduces your survival chances drastically? Interestingly, since the smoking ban in 2007, the peer pressure on smokers has increased significantly.  The smokers that we help to stop report that the displeasure felt by others around them who don’t smoke is making itself felt.  They report that they are feeling increasingly uncomfortable.  This seems to be driving many more smokers to us for help than the actual ban itself.  This is because smoking is more about image than addiction.  When people they don’t know look at them with pity in their eyes it hits at the core reason why most smokers light up. Most smokers smoke because they believe they are addicted.  We don’t need an expensive survey to work that out.  At The Surrey Institute of Clinical Hypnotherapy we have worked with nearly 10,000 smokers in the last 10 years and we have just asked them why they can’t stop.  Pretty much all of them mention addiction, alot also say it’s a habit.  Well is it?  Just suppose for a minute that the addiction belief was fictitious.  How would that change things?  All of a sudden the belief that they can’t stop (because they’re addicted) has to collapse.  Being addicted is like an external force that they, the “poor” smoker, has to fight against, making them almost a hero in their epic battle against the dreaded tobacco.  Without this belief a smoker is just pitiful using smoking to support their self image by looking cool, rebellious, fitting in etc, etc. We believe that smoking is all about image, which to most smokers sounds ridiculous as most smokers think it looks awful, especially, but not restricted to, women. However, we have to distinguish between conscious and subconscious beliefs.  From a conscious level we all think that smoking looks bad, even pitiful.  However, the subconscious learned something different.  The subconscious remembers the feelings that the smoker got when they first started smoking; i.e. feeling big, hard, cool, one of the gang, more adult and many other feelings that smokers remember from their first cigarettes.  These are the feelings that the subconscious attaches to smoking. These feelings are key to generating good feelings that directly effect our self-image. So for a smoker at a subconscious level stopping smoking means giving up, means the loss of the ability to generate these feelings.  Of course this is not the case but that is simply what the subconscious believes. This is where hypnotherapy comes in.  Hypnotherapy can help smokers to change these subconscious beliefs like no other therapy can.  If we get the subconscious to understand that this belief is fictitious and that in fact smoking is damaging, the subconscious turns off the desire for smoking which makes it much easier to stop. Paul Howard is a director of The Surrey Institute of Clinical Hypnotherapy based in Wallington, Surrey.  He has been working with smokers using hypnotherapy for over 10 years.  Although he specialises in anxiety, he has worked with thousands of smokers.  He was a heavy smoker for 27 years and as such he understands the problems that smokers face when stopping. All the articles on this site are subject to UK copyright law. If you wish to use these articles in any other content you must respect this copyright and leave links back to this website intact. Bookmark on Delicious Digg this post Recommend on Facebook Share on Linkedin share via Reddit Share with Stumblers Tweet about it Subscribe to the comments on this post This entry was posted in Addictions , Hypnotherapy , Hypnotherapy news , Smoking and tagged addictions , most smokers , most smokers want to quit 8211 now there8217s a surprise , self-image , smoke , smoker , smokers , Smoking , subconscious beliefs , uk copyright law by sichadmin . Bookmark the permalink . Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Want a pic to show with your comment? Go get a Gravatar Our offices in Surrey Wallington , Richmond and Camberley Telephone 0800 849 7001 Services we offer Hypnotherapy Counselling Life Coaching Hypnotherapy Training Nutrition Services Removing Anxiety Dealing with Addictions Conquer Blushing Marketing for Therapists Hypnotic Gastric-band Child Anxiety And many more see our treatments page Head Office The Surrey Institute head office 274 London Road,Wallington, Surrey, SM6 7DJ (near Sutton, Croydon and Carshalton). With further clinics in Richmond, Camberley and Harley Street London. Off-street Parking Male & Female Therapists Many Specialisations We proudly sponsor the Wallington Residents Information website. It is dedicated to helping local people find good local resources. Our Therapists To see the details of our therapists click Our therapists Are we too far away? Find Hypnotherapy The Department of Health recommends that, when looking for a hypnotherapist, you consult with someone who is CNHC registered. Categories Addictions Alcohol Anxiety Blushing Confidence Depression hypnosis Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy news Hypnotherapy training Hypnotic birthing IBS Insomnia News Phobias Psoriasis Smoking Social phobia wieght control © 2012 SICH. Surrey Institute of Cli