Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

General Hypnotherapy Resources, what is NLP, Phobias, Anxiety, Insomnia STORE | VIEW CART | CHECKOUT | MY ACCOUNT | HELP | CONTACT HOME ABOUT MAX SUCCESS STORIES ONE 2 ONE GROUP RESOURCES MY PRODUCTS General Resources Use the list on the right to select testimonials from within a category
            you are interested in. Resources found: 5 Hypnosis, Hypnotherapy and Hypnotism A Brief Introduction What is Hypnosis?
 
Healing by trance state (or an altered state of awareness) is among the oldest phenomena known to man and is found, in one form or another, in virtually every culture throughout the world. It could also be legitimately described as the original psychological therapy and somewhat more contentiously, as the basis for many of the more recent styles of psychological intervention. View Resource Insomnia View Resource Anxiety View Resource FAQs: Frequently Asked Questions Frequently asked questions about hypnotherapy View Resource Treatable conditions with hypnotherapy A list of treatable conditions with hypnotherapy View Resource Page: 1 Resources Choose a category - Show
             all - Addictions - Anxiety - EFT - General - Health - Hypnosis - Hypnotherapy - Insomnia - Sleep - Stop Smoking - Stress References: Dr. Robert T. London (2003). "Hypnosis: underused technique." Clinical Psychiatry News, Oct 2003 v31 i10 p8, citing study by Joseph Barber, International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnnosis, 49[3]:257-66, 2001. Fiske, S. (2003). "Butt out: Quit smoking." Psychology Today, electronic version. Mar/Apr, 1-2. Hammond, D.C. (1990). Handbook of hypnotic suggestions and metaphors. New York: W. W. Norton. This book cites the three studies listed below (studies 4, 5, and 6). Nuland, W. and Field, P.B. (1970). "Smoking and hypnosis: A systematic clinical approach." International Journal of Clinical & Experimental Hypnosis, 18, 290-306. 60% success rate with a 4-session approach. Crasilneck, H.B., & Hall, J.A. (1985). Clinical hypnosis: Principles and Applications (Second Edition). Orlando, Florida: Grune & Stratton. 64% success rate with a 4-session approach. Watkins, H.H. (1976). "Hypnosis and smoking: A five-session approach." International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis, 24 (4), 381-390. 67% success rate with a 5-session approach. Hasan, Faysal, et. al. "Hypnotherapy as an Aid to Smoking Cessation of Hospitalized patients: Preliminary Results." Presented October 22, 2007 at CHEST 2007, the annual meeting of the American College of Chest Physicians. 50% success rate with a single-session approach plus recorded follow up. Contact Customer Service | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Statement | Links To Top ©2012 Max Kirsten. All Rights Reserved. Website By Origin Creative Whether you are looking for hypnosis downloads for a way to lose weight, help deal with stress management or treatment and a phobia cure / disorders; you can find the best quit smoking hypnotherapy downloads from Max Kirsten here. From an insomnia cure to total stress management and weight loss hypnosis. With hypnotherapy and quit smoking downloads Max Kirsten showed Ewan McGregor the way, and he can show yo