
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 06:48:10 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 06:48:10 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Zambia | PSI PSI Research & Metrics Careers YouthAIDS Five & Alive Donate Text size : a | a | a Home About PSI Our Work Where We Work Resources News Multimedia Support PSI PSI at a Glance Mission & Values Board of Directors Senior Staff Country Leadership Donors Annual Reports Partners Contact Us Employment Join Our Mailing List Healthy Lives Measurable Results Changing Behaviors Building Partnerships Strengthening Local Capacity Interactive Map Country Programs PSI-Europe Publications Catalogue Behavior Change Communications (BCC) Catalogue Research Ethics Board Press Room Press Releases News Items Impact Magazine Conferences and Events Facebook Twitter Where We Work Interactive Map Country Programs PSI-Europe Program Office Society for Family Health Plot No. 549, Ridgeway P.O. Box 50770 Lusaka, Zambia Phone: + 260-211-257-407 Fax: + 260-211-257-417 contact@sfh.org.zm Home Where We Work Country Programs Zambia PSI/Zambia was established in 1992 to empower at-risk and underserved Zambians to lead healthier lives in line with the Government of Zambia’s health priorities. PSI/Zambia’s current portfolio contains programs in HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, malaria, safe water. Health Areas Child Survival, Diarrheal Disease, HIV, Malaria, Reproductive Health Health Impact In 2009, PSI/Zambia estimates that it averted more than 118,000 unwanted pregnancies, more than 922,000 episodes of diarrhea and more than 1,628,000 cases of malaria. Health Interventions Female Condom Male Condom HIV Counseling and Testing Male Circumcision Oral Contraception Intrauterine Device (IUD) Injectable Contraception Contraceptive Implants Improving Health in Zambia HIV/AIDS Prevention Male and Female Condom Social Marketing SFH relaunched Maximum male condoms as Maximum Classic and Maximum Scented in 2004. Scented condoms play a critical role in providing choice and encouraging non-users and lapsed users to adopt the use of condoms and they provide cost recovery. SFH is the key organization focusing on sales and marketing activities for the female condom in Zambia. Care is distributed through several channels, including pharmacies, drug stores, hair salons, barbershops, and VCT centers and in partnership with nongovernmental organizations. Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) In 2002, SFH began offering VCT services by opening a New Start center in downtown Lusaka. New Start now operates fixed sites in Kitwe, Chipata, Mansa, Solwezi, Ndola, Livingstone and two sites in Lusaka, as well as nine mobile VCT units. Together these sites counsel and test over 10,000 clients per month. SFH will launch a mass media campaign in 2009 to encourage couples to seek VCT services. Male Circumcision (MC) Clinical trials in South Africa, Uganda and Kenya estimate that a circumcised man is approximately 60% less likely to contract HIV than an uncircumcised man. Since 2007, SFH has offered male circumcision services through a combination of fixed sites, private sector franchises and mobile MC services through government hospitals and rural health centers. Reproductive Health Oral Contraceptives and Injectables SFH’s portfolio comprises of MyChoice Microgynon oral contraceptives, MyChoice Injectable contraceptives, and SafePlan oral contraceptives.  SFH assures the re-supply of both MyChoice products using a cost-recovery model. SFH works with private and public sector service providers as well as community-based distributors and health communications partners to improve the availability of contraceptive products. Long-Term Methods SFH seeks to improve reproductive, maternal and child health through improved access to and use of long-term family planning methods. Over the next few years, SFH will improve access to and use of IUDs and implants by supporting overburdened urban and under-supported rural MOH clinics, piloting immediate post-partum IUD insertion in collaboration with UTH and MOH, and improving the quality and range of RH services offered by private providers. Prevention of Post-Partum Hemorrhage (PPH) Post-partum hemorrhage is the leading cause of maternal deaths in Zambia. Most deliveries take place at home or in a rudimentary clinic that does not have sufficient trained staff, drugs or equipment to deal with the post-partum hemorrhage that contributes to 34% of all maternal mortality. Conclusive field studies have proven that a three-pill dose of the drug misoprostol, given to a woman immediately after she delivers, will significantly reduce PPH incidence. In addition to implementing its own PPH intervention, SFH will support the MOH’s pilot PPH prevention program. Child Survival Long Lasting Insecticide-treated Nets (LLINs) SFH partners with the National Malaria Control Center in a nationwide project to distribute Mama Safenite LLINs in an effort to prevent malaria. As a national implementer of the Malaria in Pregnancy program, SFH has rolled out the program to all nine provinces. The program is managed throughout District Health Management Team centers and then through ante-natal clinics at district and ward levels, making free nets easily accessible to pregnant women and children under five. Safe Water Contaminated water is a leading cause of diarrheal disease in Zambia, where only 64% of the population has access to safe drinking water sources. Among children under five, 21% have had diarrhea in the past two weeks, regardless of water source or location. Mortality among children under five is particularly high, as attempts to rehydrate children, usually with more contaminated water, often fail. SFH launched Clorin in 1998 to protect low-income Zambians from contaminated water. Clorin is an inexpensive and simple-to-use household water treatment – a sodium hypochlorite disinfectant developed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. To date, the program has sold or distributed over 17 million bottles of Clorin, each of which protects a family of six for a month. Products and Services Maximum condoms since 1992, with a 2004 relaunch as Maximum Classic Maximum Scented condoms since 2004 Trust Studded male condoms since 2008 Care female condoms since 1997, with a 2008 relaunch New Start voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) since 2002 Male Circumcision since 2007 SafePlan oral contraceptives since 1996 MyChoice Microgynon oral contraceptives since 2007 MyChoice Injectable since 2009 Long-Term Method (IUD and Implant) service delivery since 2008 Circle of Friends interpersonal communication (IPC) initiative since 2005 Misoprosto l for the prevention of post-partum hemorrhage since 2009 Mama Safenite long lasting insecticide treated nets (LLINs) since 2001 Clorin safe water system since 1998 GoGo reading glasses since 2007 Future Plans Launch of MyChoice IUD Launch of MyChoice Implant Launch of MisoSafe misoprostol Launch of Diarrhea Treatment Kits (ORS/Zinc) Target Populations HIV — Married and long-term couples; men and women in concurrent sexual partnerships; youth in secondary and tertiary education; and high risk occupational groups (including sex workers, transport workers, uniformed personnel and fishing communities) Malaria — pregnant women and children under five Safe water — mothers and guardians of children under five Reproductive Health — sexually active women and men (15-49) Latest News PSI in "Social Marketing Quarterly" June 10, 2010 PSI in "The Lazarus Effect" Premiering Tonight May 24, 2010 Donors U.S. Agency for International Development United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation GFATM Global Women’s Health Project UNFPA Partners Zambian Ministries of Health and Education the National AIDS Council the National Malaria Control Center University Teaching Hospital Mwami Adventist Hospital Luapula Foundation Youth Alive Development Aid from People to People Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Management Program Zambia Health Education Communications Trust Health Communications Partnership Centre for Infectious Disease Research in Zambia Community-based NGOs such as CARE, Catholic Relief Services and Neighborhood Health Committees 1120 19th Street, NW, Suite 600 Washington, DC 20036 p (202) 785-0072 | f (202) 785-0120 © 2010 Population Services I