
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 22:38:56 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.7a mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.13
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.13
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Detoxification What's 
                    New Health 
                    Products Thousands 
                    of Health Articles Healthy 
                    Recipes Chet's 
                    Blog Free 
                    Newsletters Detoxification 
            Details By 
            Ted H. Spence DDS, ND, PhD/DSc, MPH Introduction Detoxification comes in many forms and refers to many different programs 
            that cleanse the body of toxins. Today, our environment is toxic and 
            the foods we eat, even the air we breathe and the water we drink is 
            laden with chemicals foreign to our system. Therefore, everyone is 
            undergoing some type of detoxification to maintain life and health. 
            Although basic detoxification begins with diet, detox programs may 
            include nutritional fortification for the liver, lungs, kidneys, bowels 
            and blood. We will 
            soon see why these organs are so important in detoxification. Detoxification 
            for the body may refer to the cleansing of the bowels, kidneys, lungs, 
            the liver or the blood, since these are the organs involved in detoxification 
            of chemicals and toxins from the body. The liver acts as an "in-line" 
            filter for the removal of foreign substances and wastes from the blood. 
            The kidneys filter wastes from the blood into the urine, while the 
            lungs remove volatile gases as we breathe. Our body 
            is designed to utilize natural substances, which includes foods, herbs 
            and phytochemicals. Any foreign substance will serve as a stimulus 
            to our immune system, which has the function of removing these substances. 
            Although the toxicity of a chemical may vary, it is the job of the 
            liver to reduce toxins into compounds that the body can safely handle 
            and eliminate through the kidneys (as urine), skin (as sweat), lungs 
            (as expelled air) and bowels (as feces). Maintaining these eliminative 
            organs in good working order is essential for one's good health to 
            continue. While 
            there are many detoxification programs available, they differ in their 
            actions and their intent. Some detoxification programs (DP) work only 
            with the bowels, others may cleanse the liver or the blood, and others 
            may aid the kidneys or the skin in their functions. By combining these 
            detox programs into a total health program, one can effectively restore 
            their health to an optimal level and look younger in the process. 
            When the body can eliminate toxins, then health is restored and energy 
            and vigor are revitalized. Many different approaches to detoxification 
            and wellness will work, even though they attack the problem at different 
            levels. Any program that augments detoxification will improve health. 
            Other factors must be considered in detoxification, like nutrition, 
            water, and exercise, rest, sunshine, and fresh air. Detoxification 
            Diets Detoxification diets help the body to eliminate toxins in many ways. 
            First, natural vegetarian diets include the fiber needed for stimulating 
            good bowel eliminate. They also contain the proper amounts of vitamins 
            that feed and nourish the bowels and the liver, as well as other eliminative 
            organs. They also include a valuable source of enzymes since most 
            vegetarian diets are eaten raw. The elimination of meat from the diet 
            for a short period enhances detoxification because meat is so difficult 
            to digest and requires many enzymes for its digestion. Therefore, 
            vegetarian diets are cleansing diets and aid the body in elimination 
            of toxins. Of course, 
            changing diets and lifestyle is easier said than done for some people. 
            Many people want health and will go to any length to improve their 
            health, including dietary changes. But there are others who do not 
            want to change their life style for anything. These people will be 
            difficult to motivate and will not stick with the detox programs for 
            one day. They may not want to give up their sodas, or their cigarettes, 
            their beer or their coffee.  They may make a few changes, like 
            drinking more water, or they may give up completely in a very short 
            notice. Our way of eating has been cultivated over many years and 
            will not change over night. But to those who do want better health 
            and do not want to rely on pills/drugs for their existence, nutritional 
            changes will be welcomed, especially when they start feeling better 
            and having more energy. Diets 
            are very important and are usually the basis for any detox program, 
            whether it is herbs, cleansing or other detox programs. [i] Detox diets will generally 
            eliminate trigger foods, which may cause many problems with digestion 
            and elimination. Foods like wheat (glutens) and dairy (milk, cheese) 
            are often the cause of allergies. Sugar is eliminated because of its 
            "empty calories" and tendency to produce hypoglycemia. Meats are eliminated 
            because they may contain hormones, antibiotics and are difficult to 
            digest. Caffeine is wise to avoid, since it has many ill effects on 
            the body's digestion. Refined, processed and junk foods are also out 
            for any detox program to work. Herbal 
            Detoxification Generic diets for detoxification are good, but may not stimulate the 
            liver, lungs or the kidneys as much as one would like. Therefore, 
            herbal cleanses are indicated when we want to hone our cleanse to 
            a "sharp edge" and be organ specific. Of course, herbs are foods too 
            and provide one with vitamins, minerals and enzymes for excellent 
            nutrition. Herbs are powerful, because they may be combined together 
            to fortify those herbs that aid specific organs. For example, herbal 
            combinations that aid the liver may be found in many organic food 
            stores.  The list below shows how herbal combinations help the 
            various organs. Herbal 
            Combinations Liver LIV-A Dandelion, red beet, liverwort, parsley, horsetail, birch leaves, 
            chamomile, blessed thistle, black cohosh, angelica, gentian, goldenrod Kidneys Uva ursi, parsley, dandelion, juniper berries JP-X    
            Parsley, uva ursi, marshmallow, ginger, goldenseal, dong quai, cedar 
            berries Lungs LH Comfrey, marshmallow, mullein, slippery elm, senega, Chinese 
            ephedra While 
            herbs may be taken at any time, they are best for detoxification purposes 
            when they are used with a good diet also.  It does not make any 
            sense to take herbs to cleanse the liver if the bowels are clogged 
            with junk or refined foods, since the liver dumps its toxins into 
            the bowels. And while detoxification diets are effective by themselves, 
            they may be reinforced and speeded up with herbs, which stimulate 
            the eliminative organs. Herbs 
            may be used as teas, powders or extracts. Powders are usually encapsulated 
            for easier swallowing, but are best when taken with meals and digestive 
            enzymes. Extracts may be used when specific herbs are needed, but 
            may be extracted with alcohol, which we need to avoid. Herbal teas 
            are easily made and easily taken all throughout the day. They are 
            mild and gentle and sometimes refreshing and sometimes bitter. Experimentation 
            may be in order until one develops the right tea to drink. Herbal 
            teas is a topic in itself, since there are so many and different ways 
            to make them. Example 
            Herbal Cleanse Rising Drink a glass of lemon water or drink a glass of water with added: 
            one teaspoon of apple cider vinegar and  one teaspoon of blackstrap 
            molasses Morning Drink a glass of water with psyllium husk powder (follow with 
            another glass of water). Meals Take 2-3 multi-digestive enzymes Take liver herbs In 
            Between Meals Drink herbals teas which support the liver, including Dandelion/licorice/ginger/fennel Note : 
            Following a good diet is mandatory for herbs to work optimally. See section on diets for detox. Skin 
            Cleansing Detoxification should include some type of skin cleansing, because 
            our skin it one of our best eliminative organs. Heavy metals are actually 
            released through the skin's pores when we sweat. Sauna baths and steam 
            rooms are great for removing toxins from the skin and regenerating 
            one's health and energy. It has been documented that our skin's sweat 
            glands when combined can perform as much detoxification as one (or 
            both) kidneys. Therefore, it is very important to support our skin 
            for detoxification to be maximal. If our kidneys are damaged, then 
            helping the skin will help the kidneys ... indirectly, but effectively. Good 
            skin care is in order, if one's health is to benefit, also. Using 
            chemicalized skin care products is not wise, even though they are 
            cheaper. These chemicals may be absorbed into our circulation and 
            provide more "toxins" for our liver to deal with.  We are not 
            made out of cast iron, and even the chemicals in our soaps and shampoos 
            will make a difference with our health. Most people do not "see" the 
            ill effects of these subtle chemicals, because their liver is able 
            to metabolize them. But, individuals who are environmentally toxic 
            will see a great change in their health when using natural soaps and 
            shampoos. We should take their advice and use only natural skin care 
            products also. Cleansing 
            our skin is rather simple. First, we need to bathe daily using natural 
            soaps. Then we need to care for the skin by using only natural oils 
            and products of natural origin. Even the clothes we wear can make 
            a big difference in our health. Synthetic fibers do not absorb sweat 
            (toxins), while natural fibers, like cotton, will absorb toxins. Dry 
            skin brushing helps in removing the outer dead skin layers and keeps 
            the pores open. Another good method of skin brushing is with vigorous 
            toweling off after bathing. Towel roughly until the skin is slightly 
            red. Change towels often because they will contain toxins. Good 
            skin care also requires good nutrition.[ ii ] Since 
            our skin is mainly fat, we need high quality fats and oil from natural 
            sources to give our skin health. Butter and olive oil are two excellent 
            natural oils, which keep the skin in good condition. As always, the 
            fats/oils should be natural ... only. Detoxification 
            Baths Use 1/2 cup of baking soda or use 1/2 cup of Epsom salt or use 1/2 
            cup of sea salt. Soak for 15-20 minutes and then scrub the skin gently 
            with soap on a natural fiber. Within a few minutes the water will 
            turn murky and "dirty." The darkness to the water is heavy metals 
            coming out of the skin (aluminum and mercury). Do this once a week 
            during detox and once a month for maintenance. Juice 
            Fasting Fasting with vegetable juices can be another excellent way to develop 
            good health and cleanse the body of toxins. Juices, minus their pulp 
            (fiber), contain an excellent source of vitamins, minerals and enzymes. 
            When the pulp is not added, one is able to drink more juice than they 
            are able to eat. For example, one can easily consume the juice of 
            several heads of lettuce in one sitting, but may not be able to eat 
            the lettuce whole. This allows the body to get an abundance of nutrients 
            with minimal processing (digestion). Fasting on mono-juices also allows 
            the body proper time to process these juices and helps to preserve 
            our valuable digestive enzymes. Juice 
            fasting has helped many people over come serious diseases like 
            cancer, because it gave them optimal nutrition and allowed the body 
            to cleanse itself of toxins. [According to many nutritionists, cancer 
            is merely a toxic condition.] With some juicers , 
            the pulp is discarded, but it may be saved and added back for fiber 
            (not too much). Juices contain good sources of antioxidants and enzymes, 
            both of which are needed for cleansing and eliminating toxins. Juices 
            are also easy to digest and help those with digestive problems. Flora Our bowel flora is also important for detoxification and normal health. 
            Probiotics is the term given to the normal bowel flora, which are 
            taken as supplements. It has been found that these normal flora actually 
            defend our body from the pathogenic species of bacteria and perform 
            many vital functions, such as detoxification of toxic chemicals and 
            making valuable vitamins (mainly the B vitamins).  When our normal 
            flora are present they secrete mediators in which the pathogenic forms 
            cannot grow. But the reverse is also true, that when the pathogenic 
            forms take over, they will exclude the normal flora with their toxins. Many 
            scientists feel that it is the toxins secreted from the pathogens 
            and not the pathogens themselves that create disease. The ability 
            of all bacteria to change and grow under specific conditions of their 
            immediate environment is called pleiomorphism. Cell wall deficient 
            forms are "bacteria" which lack a defined cell wall, yet have all 
            the specifications of being bacterial-like. Even viruses have been 
            found to exhibit morphological forms, which resemble bacteria and 
            fungus. While this is not widely accepted by modern medical scientists, 
            it has been proven beyond a shadow of doubt by eminent scientists, 
            like Virginia Livingston Wheeler, Irene Diller, and Royal Rife. Their 
            microscopic studies have revealed that bacteria and viruses and fungus 
            may be all different forms of the same organism, differing only by 
            the environment in which they are grown. Antibiotics 
            kill off the good bacteria as well as the bad and allow the bad to 
            repopulate and develop antibiotic resistance. Natural forms of antibiotics 
            are better, since they do not kill off the good bacteria with the 
            bad and do not allow drug" resistance to take place. Garlic, for example, 
            is perhaps, 200 times more effective against pathogens than most antibiotics 
            today. And it does not produce antibiotic resistance forms, which 
            is a danger to all our health. As antibiotics become more widely used, 
            more antibiotic resistant forms will be encountered. Herbal antiseptics 
            and antibacterial tonics are far better and less dangerous to our 
            over-all health, because they do not kill of the good bacteria with 
            the bad. Replacing 
            our natural flora is a good step for preventing disease and keeping 
            our bowels healthy and populated with normal flora. Taking probiotics 
            containing Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidus can help us in our 
            detox program and also in repopulating the gut after a cleanse.  
            Our normal healthy flora should be a part of any detoxification program. Antioxidants The use of antioxidants, like vitamins A, E, and especially C, are 
            very essential for detoxification since they are involved with the 
            detoxification of toxins. Antioxidants are involved with helping cells 
            to neutralize free radicals that can cause mutations and cellular 
            damage. As these free radicals are neutralized, the antioxidant vitamins 
            will be used and exhibit low levels. Vitamin A and E are fat soluble 
            and will be found in our fat tissues/stores, but vitamin C is water 
            soluble and will be found mainly in our skin (between the cells according 
            to Reams). Vitamin C is also involved with many other important bodily 
            functions, like collagen formation, wound healing, energy production 
            and fighting off colds (viruses). The function 
            of antioxidants is so important that any deficiency of them will be 
            seen as catastrophic to one's health. When our antioxidants are low, 
            energy is not available and detoxification cannot take place in a 
            normal fashion. Therefore, toxins accumulate or are stored until they 
            can be processed.  The liver and many other organs are compromised 
            in their functions when antioxidants are low. Just the lack of energy 
            is enough to cause the body to have compromised or poor health, because 
            it is energy that is required for the removal of toxins and wastes. Vitamin 
            C should be taken with bioflavinoids to ensure that all the components 
            of the vitamin C complex are taken together, since they work together. 
            Pure ascorbic acid is called vitamin C, but does little by itself. 
            We tend to think that ascorbic acid as vitamin C, but it is only part 
            of the vitamin C complex. Vitamin C is very essential to any detoxification 
            program, because that is what the body uses for energy to process 
            and eliminate these toxic waste Vitamin C can be taken in very high 
            doses until the bowel tolerance level [BTL] is achieved. This BTL 
            is different for different people. Some persons reach tolerance at 
            4-5 grams (4,000-5,000 mg), while others may not reach tolerance until 
            10-15 grams (10,000-15,000 mg). Cancer patients notoriously can take 
            20-30 grams (20,000-30,000 mg) of vitamin C before tolerance is reached 
            ... meaning that they needed more vitamin C than most people. By taking 
            vitamin C to its tolerance level we find out 1) what our BTL is and 
            2) how saturated our body is with Vitamin C.  Vitamin C was found 
            by Linus Pauling and Ewan Cameron to be very effective in helping 
            many patients to over come that killer disease, called cancer. Perhaps, 
            this was because vitamin C was needed for detoxification of toxins, 
            which "caused" the cancer in the first place. Although Pauling and 
            Cameron were greatly criticized for their work with vitamin C, they 
            were able to help many people overcome cancer and without compromising 
            their health with toxic drugs. Enzymes The use of enzymes in detoxification is important, because the body 
            needs an adequate supply of enzymes, not only for digestion, for also 
            for detoxification. [iii] Enzymes are best obtained 
            from fresh raw fruits and vegetables, but may be taken daily with 
            meals as nutritional supplements of multi-digestive enzymes. Enzymes 
            in our food helps us to digest that food, but many foods today are 
            processed, refined, heated (cooked), radiated and stored, which destroys 
            enzymes and leaves it non-vital. [iv] Foods with 
            enzymes destroyed will have a longer shelf life, but will not give 
            one health when it is eaten. Fresh 
            raw fruits and vegetables are the best source for enzymes and help 
            to give one vibrant health.  Enzymes are also used by the body 
            in detoxification of toxic substances. The liver is the source of 
            most detoxification enzymes, which it must make, or store. To aid 
            the body in removing and eliminating wastes and toxins, enzymes 
            are best taken in between meals . This way they do not get involved 
            with digestion, but go to the liver and to the blood for detoxification. Many 
            therapies have utilized enzymes for improving health and enzymes have 
            long been the key to many detoxification therapies which have helped 
            many to over come that dreaded disease, cancer. Kelley, Gerson, Moerman, 
            and Neiper used alternative  nutritional therapies with enzymes 
            for curing cancer. The famous Wobe Mugos enzymes from Europe were 
            utilized with Laetrile therapies for cancer. Never was Laetrile give 
            alone, but was used with vitamins, diet and enzymes. This made the 
            Laetrile therapy very successful in the 1970s. If cancer is a toxic 
            condition, which many feel that it is, then taking enzymes will help 
            it. And it does. The use 
            of raw foods in many detoxification diets are using the enzymes found 
            naturally in those foods. Additionally, these raw foods provide fiber 
            and, with proper food combining, will not waste the body enzymes reserves. 
            Preserving enzymes is the key to over coming disease and living to 
            ripe old age and remaining healthy.  Yes, vitamins and minerals 
            are important, but vitamins are enzyme co-factors and many minerals 
            are use to activate enzymes.  Therefore, the vitamins and minerals 
            themselves are only augmenting the role of the enzymes which are detoxifying 
            toxins and supporting metabolism. Enzymes 
            also help the bowels in cleansing, because they liquefy the bowel 
            content, which makes transit much easier. The role of enzymes in digestion 
            is to break down foods for digestion and absorption. When foods are 
            broken down they become more liquid and the bowels move much easier 
            and faster. Transit time is decreased and our health is increased 
            when toxins are removed and eliminated.  Perhaps, this is a link 
            to breaking the "constipation chain." Enzymes are the key to health. 
            Preserve our enzymes and we will be healthy for a long time. Bowel 
            Cleansing Keeping the bowels clean and moving is a major step in regaining our 
            health since the bowels are crucial in the elimination of toxins, 
            especially those processed by the liver. [The liver dumps in to the 
            bowel via the gall bladder.] This is why one hears a lot about the 
            bowels, and bowel cleansing.  In severe cases, enemas and colonics 
            may be needed to breakup and washout long-standing bowel encrustations. 
            Diet may do the same thing as an enema or colonic, it will just take 
            longer. Also, one should be very diligent in repopulating after a 
            total washout of the normal flora and probiotics will be necessary 
            to restore that balance. Constipation 
            is a national pastime and slow bowels are more common today than years 
            previous. For one thing, people not only ate better 100 years ago, 
            they were more active and got out doors more.  When the bowels 
            slow down, toxins are not eliminated and are reabsorbed and carried 
            back to the liver for recycling and elimination. Reabsorbed bile salts 
            have been linked to increased cholesterol levels; therefore, cholesterol 
            is a major indicator of constipation. Also, when the bowels get slow 
            and toxin levels increase, the pathogenic microorganisms grow to out-number 
            the normal flora causing dysbiosis.  Although flora is needed 
            to correct this, it is the clogged bowels that are the major problem. 
            When the bowels move again, everything else will fall into order. Our endocrine 
            glands that control metabolism are also involved; since it is our 
            thyroid that controls metabolism and metabolism affects how our bowels 
            are functioning. In this way, constipation can be seen as a symptom 
            of hypothyroidism. Low body temperatures (a symptom of hypothyroidism) 
            are very common today ...although they are not "normal" ... as many 
            authors have reported. One major factor in low body temperatures is 
            the suppression of thyroid function by heavy metals, like mercury, 
            which binds to our thyroid hormones and renders them inactive. Eliminate 
            the mercury and the body temperature is likely to return to normal. The easiest 
            way to get the bowels moving is by using a high fiber diet consisting 
            of fresh fruits and vegetables.  Sometimes, one may add extra 
            fiber during the day by drinking a glass of water (juice) with psyllium 
            husk powder. The extra fiber adds to the bulk of the stool and decreases 
            the bowel transit time, which means better toxin elimination and better 
            health.  It makes sense that if one can eliminate toxins their 
            health will improve. One of 
            the best ways to improve the bowel function is with herbal remedies 
            that act as bowel stimulants or laxatives. These products range from 
            the very mild - slippery elm - to the stimulant - cascara sagrada- 
            to the very harsh - aloes and senna. Everyone may react differently 
            to these products, so they should be taken cautiously at first. Some 
            persons may take two aloes with no effect (meaning they are heavily 
            blocked), while others may take a mild herbal and get a much greater 
            effect than most. Herbal bowel combination formulas are excellent 
            because they not only stimulate the bowels to move, but give the bowels 
            the nourishment it needs to move on its own. Herbal 
            formulas should not preclude a wholesome 
            natural diet , since diet comes first in matters of health. One 
            should not become overly dependent on herbal laxatives, since they 
            deplete potassium and may be "addicting" as some authors claim. Yet, 
            herbal products play a key role in getting the body to eliminate toxins 
            by stimulating the eliminative organs like nothing else can and, therefore, 
            cannot be ignored. Herxheimer 
            Reaction The Herxheimer Reaction occurs when the body is detoxifying too rapidly 
            and toxins are being released faster than the body can eliminate them. [v] When this occurs, one will suffer from headaches, nausea, vomiting, 
            and malaise. Even though this is but a short period of the health 
            program, it can be severe and deter one from reaching their intended 
            goals.  Also, the person may not know what they are experiencing 
            and think that they are regressing. To 
              minimize the Herxheimer Reaction: Drinks 
              lots of pure water Get 
              minimal exercise daily Lots 
              of sunshine Take 
              detoxification slowly... one step at a time Don't 
              increase the dose of herbals Keep 
              the organs of elimination (bowels, lungs, skin, kidneys) open Take 
              detox baths Use 
              aromatherapy oils for aches -like peppermint, birch, and wintergreen Sweat 
              by using exercise, saunas, baths, and herbs Avoid 
              foreign chemicals and refined processed foods If the 
            Herxheimer reaction occurs, cut back on your health detoxification 
            program. Reduce the dose of herbs and follow the above outline to 
            reduce the symptoms of toxin elimination. The more toxins there are 
            to eliminate, the sicker one is when they come out. Generally, one 
            will feel better when all is over and health is restored again. Just 
            remember, don't give up. Conclusion Detoxification may produce symptoms of headaches, nausea, malaise 
            and vomiting due to the toxins being released [Herxheimer Reaction]. 
            If this occurs, one should back off the program and proceed slowly. Proceeding to fast with detoxification can have disastrous results 
            when toxins are released into the circulation . Our body should 
            be primed and ready to eliminate toxins before they are released. 
            We do this by getting the bowels working, keeping the skin clean and 
            getting the kidneys and lungs operating.  Only by having all 
            organs of elimination in proper operating order can our body begin 
            to dump toxins efficiently and maximally. Keeping the skin clean and 
            healthy is of prime importance also. Detoxification 
            is essential for good health to exist. Our body must eliminate toxins 
            daily or we would die immediately. Since our environment is more toxic 
            today, our livers are over stressed with environmental toxins to deal 
            with daily. Processing other toxins, when the liver is stressed, may 
            be delayed. Detoxification is also a lifestyle change. For it is by 
            the way we live that determines our health and how our liver processes 
            toxins. Detoxification is 
            easy if we eat a wholesome natural organic diet and live life in a 
            natural way . But for those who want their cake and eat it too, 
            detoxification may be compromised. A change your lifestyle may be 
            needed and detoxification will be forthcoming. Nature has afforded 
            us the chance to live in a toxic environment and not be affected by 
            it. Of course, we have to live right to get that chance. Without detoxification 
            we may not get a second chance. Good 
            health is within our reach, but first we must cleanse this "temple" 
            and eat a wholesome natural diet that provides us with maximal nutrients 
            and fiber. Herbs can help us stimulate the liver, lungs, kidneys and 
            bowels when needed, but diet is the first priority in any detoxification 
            program. Don't become overly dependent on herbal laxatives. When toxins 
            are released one may feel bad for a day or two, but when our good 
            health is restored we will have renewed energy and will "soar on the 
            wings of an eagle".  Many people living today have never known 
            what good health "feels" like. They survive with an abundance of toxins 
            and an existence less than healthy. Good 
            health is not hard to find, but does require diligence and life style 
            changes which are compatible with toxin elimination.  Sir Jason 
            Winters Says, "Death begins in the colon." With good toxin elimination 
            through natural detoxification programs our health and energy are 
            restored. [i].  
            "The Best Way to Detox," Jill Ruttenberg, Natural Health , Oct 
            1999, p 88-92, 152. [Ii].   
            Aubrey Hampton, Natural Organic Hair and Skin Care , 1987, Organica 
            Press, Tampa, FL 33614 [iii].  
            Harold Loomis, DC, Enzymes: The Key to Health , Vol 1, The Fundamentals, 
            1999, 21st Century Nutrition, Madison, WI [iv].  
            Anthony J Cichoke, DC, Enzymes and Enzyme Therapy , 1994, Keats 
            Publishing, Inc, New Canaan, CT [v].  
            Ibid, p 148. Disclaimer : 
              Throughout this website, statements are made pertaining to the properties 
              and/or functions of food and/or nutritional products. These statements 
              have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and 
              these materials and products are not intended to diagnose, treat, 
              cure or prevent any disease. What's New on H&B Our 
                    Recommended Health Products Thousands 
                    of Health Articles Healthy Recipes Chet's Blog Our 
                    Free Newsletters Health & Beyond Online P.O. Box 755 Earl, NC 28038-0755 Contact 
              Us License, 
              Terms of Use, and Privacy 