Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Personal info Child name: Shahbaz Khan sex: Male date of birth: 2/2/1995 city: London country: England Epilepsy info primary diagnosis: Multiple Seizure types additional: No diagnosis cause: date diagnosed: At 14 months type(s) of seizures: Tonic clonic, absences, general frequency of seizures: 10- 30 additional health issues: Constipation Medications used (in chronological order) Phenytoin (Dilantin) still being used: No effectiveness: Unknown side effects: Swollen gums, hair growth, no control of fits Lamotrigine (Lamictal) still being used: No effectiveness: Unknown Nitrazepam still being used: No effectiveness: Unknown Phenobarbital still being used: No effectiveness: Unknown Alternative Treatments (in chronological order) Aroamatheraphy/Shaitsu details: still being used: effectiveness: Positive positive effect: More responsive,calming side effects: None Multi vitamins details: still being used: effectiveness: Positive positive effect: Stronger,increase in awareness comments: I used multi- vitamins and also Vitamin B Homeopathy details: still being used: effectiveness: Unknown comments: Due to severity of condition at the time, unable to tell Personal Notes Currently, Shahbaz has made a recovery that has surprised all the Consultants. Against medical advice We withdrew all his epilepsy medication on the 2 February 1998. To date, He has had no more fits. With vitamin supplements, aroamatheraphy, shaitsu and many prayers, We thank GOD for his recovery. For the first time in 2 years Shahbaz has smiled and has shown signs of recovery. Although Shahbaz has regressed in his development, the past 4 months have given Us hope. Our message to parents with children in a similar position is consider natural supplements but minimize experiments. Only proceed with those treatments that make sense to both Your heart and Your mind.
I have an excellent article available to any-one with epilepsy. It deals with aroamatheraphy,shaitsu and vitamin supplements as treatment for Epilepsy. We tried the approach when Shahbaz was in a severe condition. Contact info For additional information, p