<http://www.reflexologyfootmap.net/?p=589>; rel=shortlink
Set-Cookie: wpmp_switcher=desktop; expires=Mon, 25-Mar-2013 22:18:36 GMT; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Back Pain Relief – Therapies to Help Back Pain Home Reflexology foot map Videos Books for reflexology Privacy Policy Home Articles for reflexology Feautured content Shiatsu massage Categories Articles for reflexology Feautured content Shiatsu massage Recent Posts The History of Reflexology Avoid colon cancer with relaxation therapy. Baby Wearing Forex Line Charts Easy Way to Relax – Stress Relaxation Techniques Recent Comments Anthony M. : !Important! I really like your website, it's well ... » Anthony M. : !Important! I really like your website, it's very ... » vimax : Gosto de você por causa de todos os seus esforços ... » internetagentur webseiten : I'm new to blogging. I admire what you have done h... » Emmanuel Payseur : Posted your stuff, %BLOGTITILE% at digg. Cheers, E... » Back Pain Relief – Therapies to Help Back Pain Posted by Reflexologyfootmap.net on  February 16th, 2012 Article  by David Pegg Generally, the symptoms of low back pain are due to benign musculoskeletal problems often arising from strains in the lower back muscles or soft tissue. Establishing of the fundamental origin of the back pain with a GP is usually made through medical history, physical examination, and, when necessary, diagnostic investigation, such as x-ray, MRI, or CT scan. Usually, low back pain can be treated conventionally, which may help alleviate the symptoms. This is a summary of some of the more common therapies and natural back paincure:- Acupuncture Acupuncture treatment originated in China over two thousand years ago. The general theory behind traditional acupuncture is based on patterns or meridians of energy flow through the body that are essential for health.. How acupuncture works Broadly, acupuncture involves stimulation of points along these energy flows through a range of techniques. Stimulation is typically performed using very fine needles that create gentle sensations. Does acupuncture offer natural back pain remedies Acupuncture is considered useful in treating such conditions as lower back pain, sciatica, stiffness, and strains. Alexander technique The Alexander Technique is a method that works to change (movement) habits in our everyday activities. It is a simple and practical method for improving ease and freedom of movement, balance, support and coordination. The Alexander Technique is a method which helps a person discover a new balance in the body by releasing unnecessary tension. It can be applied to sitting, lying down, standing, walking, lifting, and other daily activities How Alexander Technique works The Alexander Technique shows its students how to learn to do whatever they currently do as easily and efficiently as possible. Alexander teachers are not doctors and do not diagnose diseases. Can Alexander Technique give natural back pain relief By becoming more aware of how the body works and learning how to “undo” bad body practices, those suffering with long term or chronic back pain are able to soothe and ease their symptoms. Bowen Therapy The Bowen technique is a soft tissue remedial therapy, named after its innovator Tom Bowen. This therapy is not considered massage, but as a non-invasive muscle release and integration technique, but similar to massage, it releases muscular tension. How does Bowen Therapy work The technique involves the therapist using fingers or thumbs to move over muscle, ligament tendon and fascia in various parts of the body. The work is very subtle, relaxing and gentle involving no hard or prolonged pressure. During a session the client will lie on a therapy table or bed, although the work can be effectively carried out with the client in a chair. Can Bowen Therapy provide natural back pain cures The most common presentation is for back pain relief and here Bowen excels. The average number of treatments would be two or three for most therapists. There are always going to be exceptions to any rule, and certain people will need further or even on-going treatments. The Bowen Technique is being used at high levels of sport in this country, with rugby clubs and premiership football clubs showing interest. Bowen therapists advocate that this can reduce or eliminate or help back pain and promote general health Source: European College of Bowen Chiropractic Chiropractic is a technique which focuses on the musculoskeletal and nervous systems. The principal of Chiropractic is that the key to health is the nervous system with the spine at its centre. If the spine is aligned correctly, then optimal movement can occur and the patient can achieve improved health. A chiropractor will generally address “subluxations”- misalignments to the spinal bones responsible for reduced movement or or loss of normal posture, causing impairment to the nervous system or nerve irritation. How does Chiropractic work In seeking to offer natural back pain relief, a chiropractor would usually examine the patient’s spine and review any patient history to determine any previous injuries, accidents, or tensions that may be impairing normal function. Sometimes the Chiropractor will order an X-ray to help determine this. A common form of Chiropractic treatment is a spinal manipulation or adjustment. This is generally carried out by hand manipulating the spinal joints affected in an attempt to increase or unlock the joints mobility. Can Chiropractic offer back pain relief A chiropractor will attempt to focus on the fundamental mechanical and neurological trouble in the spine to decrease the back pain and other symptoms caused by reduced spinal function. He will concentrate on natural health care working to encourage the body to self repair back towards improved health. Chiropractic care as a therapy for back pain in general is safe when employed skillfully and appropriately. Manipulation is regarded as relatively safe, but as with all therapeutic interventions, complications can arise. Feldenkrais The Feldenkrais Method is based on physics, neurology, and bio mechanics. The Feldenkrais method is designed to improve movement repertoire, aiming to expand and refine the use of the self through awareness, in order to reduce pain or limitations in movement, and promote posture, and general well-being. The Feldenkrais Method is often regarded as falling within the field of complementary medicine, and is a means of re educating the neuromuscular system, redefining movement to increase efficiency and reduce stress How does Feldenkrais work Feldenkrais Method is taught in two complimentary formats – “Awareness Through Movement’ taught through classes and Functional Integration taught on a one to one basis. In teaching ‘Awareness Through Movement’ classesOne of the key aims is to instruct pupils how to decrease unwarranted muscular exertion and develop understanding of their whole self during movement. In a Functional Integration lesson, a trained practitioner uses his or her hands to guide the movement of a single pupil, who may be sitting, lying or standing. The practitioner uses this “hands-on” technique to help the student experience the connections among various parts of the body (with or without movement). Through precision of touch and movement, the pupil learns how to eliminate excess effort and thus move more freely and easily. Issues such as chronic muscle pain may resolve themselves as the pupil may learn a more relaxed approach to his or her physical experience-a more integrated, free, and easy way to move. Can Feldenkrais offer back pain relief The theory behind Feldenkrais is that inefficient movement behaviour may lead to avoidable tension and movement constraint leading to back pain. The Feldenkrais technique provides for expanded movement alternatives and enhanced posture which can provide backache relief or back pain relief, whilst developing greater efficiency and freedom of movement Massage therapy Massage is the manipulation of superficial layers of muscle and connective tissue to improve the function and encourage relaxation, well-being, and improve posture dysfunction. It involves acting on and manipulating the body with pressure – structured, unstructured, stationary, or moving tension, motion, or vibration, done manually or with mechanical aids. Target tissues may include muscles, tendons, ligaments skin, joints, or other connective tissue, as well as lymphatic vessels, Massage can be carried out using the hands, fingers, elbows, knees, forearm, and feet. There are over eighty different recognized massage techniques with many used to help back pain. Massage manipulates the soft tissues of the body by rubbing, kneading, stretching and other methods for therapeutic effect. How do Massage therapies work as natural back pain remedies Massage manipulates the soft tissues of the body by rubbing, kneading, stretching and other methods for therapeutic effect. There are many types of massage therapy for back pain in addition to acupressure or Bowen (see above) such as:- Deep Tissue Massage Used to relieve severe tension in muscle or fascia, often used where the patient suffers consistent lower back pain caused by specific muscular-skeletal conditions. Massage can also assist in relieving lumbar pain by reducing tension in turn alleviating poor back posture caused by muscle imbalance. Although massage is undoubtedly useful for back pain relief it may not address the underlying condition so GP advice should be sought. Osteopathy Osteopathy is a non invasive holistic drug free manual therapy that centres on total body health by treating and strengthening the musculoskeletal framework, which includes the joints, muscles and spine. Its aim is to positively affect the body’s nervous, circulatory and lymphatic systems, enabling an environment of self healing. How does Osteopathy work Osteopathy employs manual therapies for the treatment of many neuromusculoskeletal pain syndromes, such as lower back pain and tension headache, alongside exercise and other rehabilitative techniques. An osteopath will utilise a range of gentle hands-on techniques such as soft tissue stretching, deep tactile pressure, and joint mobilisation or manipulation. The key principles of osteopathy are based on all parts of the body functioning together in an integrated manner. If one part of the body is restricted, then the rest of the body must adapt and offset this, which can lead to inflammation, pain, stiffness and other health conditions. Osteopathic treatment helps to reduce pain stress and enhance mobility, creating an environment of self healing for the patient’s body. Can osteopathy offer effective back pain relief Osteopathy is recognised by the British Medical Association as ‘a discrete clinical discipline’ which can compliment mainstream medicine, and trials demonstrate its effectiveness in treating back pain, with GP’s often referring patients to osteopaths for private treatment. Physiotherapy Physiotherapy helps restore movement and function to as near as possible when someone is affected by injury, illness or by developmental or other disability. It uses physical approaches to promote, maintain and restore physical, psychological and social wellbeing, taking account of variations in health status. Physiotherapy is science based, committed to extending, applying, evaluating and reviewing the evidence that underpins and informs its practice and delivery. The exercise of clinical judgement and informed interpretation is at its core” Ref: The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy Orthopaedic therapists are trained in the treatment of back pain and spinal conditions, joint and spine mobilisation or manipulation and therapeutic exercise, in order to enable backache relief. How does Physiotherapy work Physical movement is seen as a key important therapy in treating lower back pain. Physiotherapy can be described as a drug-free technique employing a range of procedures, such as joint manipulation and mobilisation, physical stretches and exercise routines, massage therapy, ice and heat therapy, ultrasound, and breathing exercises. Although a GP may refer a lower back pain sufferer to a physiotherapist, a patient can go directly to the latter, although in some instances, the physio may require a formal GP referral. Is Physiotherapy an effective back pain treatment Physiotherapy can identify several factors as potentially leading to incidences of lower back pain, including trauma or injury, arthritis, poor posture, muscular strains and weaknesses, ligament strains, sciatic conditions, and disc trouble. Shiatsu Shiatsu is a traditional hands-on therapy originating in Japan. There are two main Shiatsu schools; one based on western anatomical and physiological theory where it soothes an overactive sympathetic nervous system, improving circulation, relieving muscle tension and reducing stress, and the other based on a holistic system of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). Shiatsu is regulated as a licensed medical therapy by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (Japan), and elsewhere by various governing bodies set up by Shiatsu practitioners. How does Shiatsu work Shiatsu is an uses pressure applied with thumbs, fingers and palms to the same energy flows or meridians as acupuncture and incorporates stretching. It also uses techniques such as rolling, brushing, vibrating, grasping and in one particular technique developed by Suzuki Yamamoto, pressure is applied with the feet on the persons back, legs and feet (special set up is required for the “foot” shiatsu). The Shiatsu practitioner seeks to apply finger, thumb, palm, or even foot pressure to the affected areas using a variety of massage techniques Is Shiatsu an effective back pain treatment It is likely that back pain relief for back pain for back ache or sciatic conditions can be provided by a shiatsu practitioner. Shiatsu is complementary to mainstream Western medicine, not an alternative to it. Though therapy back pain will be administered according to Oriental practice it is important that a modern Western diagnosis is obtained as well, and the practitioner will attempt to establish the origin of the condition. Yoga Yoga dates back to over 5,000 years, and originated in India as a form of a spiritual practice. In the West, Yoga as an alternative medicine has evolved from its founding philosophy into a form known as Yoga Therapy, often considered useful as a therapy for back pain. In the UK this has taken the form of a National Occupational Standard, (NOS) for the delivery of Yoga Therapy to clients with impaired health, such as back problems or compromised well being. Yoga is usually taught in classes or groups, sometimes as a lower back pain therapy Yoga is believed to calm the nervous system, create harmony, and balance the body, mind, and spirit. It is thought by its practitioners to prevent specific diseases and maladies by keeping the energy meridians open and life energy (Prana) flowing. Over time many different branches of yoga have involved from the original meditative states to the emphasis on physical pose or position, breathing, bodily alignment, or flow of movement. How does Yoga offer effective back pain relief Yoga engages movement, stretching, posture and breathing to achieve overall wellbeing of body and mind. The different types of yoga often focus on specific facets such as Fitness, flexibility, meditation, rehabilitation, relaxation, and strength.Yoga engages movement, stretching, posture and breathing to achieve overall wellbeing. Restorative yoga is often associated with healing disease, and is practiced in a very relaxed state by using supports instead of muscular tension to maintain the pose alignments. These poses help relieve the effects of chronic stress in several ways. First, the use of props provide a completely supportive environment for total relaxation. Second, each restorative sequence is designed to move the spine in all directions. Third, a well-sequenced restorative practice also includes an inverted pose, which reverses the effects of gravity. Because we stand or sit most of the day, blood and lymph fluid accumulate in the lower extremities. By changing the relationship of the legs to gravity, fluids are returned to the upper body and heart function is enhanced. Fourth, restorative yoga alternately stimulates and soothes the organs. With this movement of blood comes the enhanced exchange of oxygen and waste products across the cell membrane. Restorative yoga balances these aspects of energy within the practitioner. Most yoga classes usually comprise a combination of physical exercises, breathing exercises, and meditation. Can Yoga help my Back Pain Yoga can help back pain through the teaching balance, flexibility, strengthening muscles and promoting body awareness. For practitioners of yoga, an amalgamation of yoga positions reduces weakness, improves the alignment of the spine and reduces muscle tension, creating an environment of self healing for the back. David Pegg from Manchester UK is a director with Lumbacurve International, manufacturers of back pain relief products. LumbaCurve provides exercises and drug free natural cures for back pain to help give relief for sufferers of lumbar pain. Find More Shiatsu Lessons Articles Posted in Shiatsu massage Tags: Back , Help , Pain , Relief , Therapies « Comprehensive Shiatsu Massage Chair Review Conscious Relaxation » Both comments and pings are currently closed. Comments are closed. Subscribe! Follow me! Our mobile site Tags About Alleviate Babies baby Benefits Best Better Body Career Chair Chart Charts Cramps Detox Ease Easy Effectively Faster Feet Foot From Good Health Healthy Help History Massage Massager massagers Massages More Options Pads Pain Reflexology Relax Relaxation Remedy Shiatsu Stress Techniques Therapy Tips Training treatment Copyright © Reflexology foot map - reflexology foot map Powered by WordPress | Shop Free Cellular Phones at Bestincellphones.com . | Thanks to Best CD Rates , iCellPhoneDeals.com Offers Best Cell Pho