
Behavioral Methods for Urinary Incontinence for Medical Professionals Careers Contact Us Sanford Health Medical Services Centers of Excellence Cancer Children's Heart Orthopedics & Sports Women's View All Specialties Search Services By Keyword Search View All Medical Services Find Services Alphabetically A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z View All Medical Services Patients & Visitors Email a Patient Newborns Gift Shop Volunteer Opportunities CaringBridge Contact Us Patient Services Pay Your Bill Pre-Register Patient Information View Current Wait Times My Sanford Chart Health Information Search the Healthwise Information Database By Keyword Search By Category Conditions / Diseases Medications Medical Tests By Topic A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Not Sure Where to Look? List All Categories Kids Health Topics for Kids for Teens for Parents Learning Resources Find Classes / Events Watch Educational Videos Locations & Doctors Search for a Doctor By Last Name Specialty Locations Find a Sanford Health Location Select State California Iowa Minnesota Nebraska North Dakota Oklahoma South Dakota Select Community Search All Locations Search item# or keyword Search Health Information Video Library Family Health - For Kids Family Health - For Teens Family Health - For Parents Find Classes & Events Topic Contents Treatment Overview What To Expect After Treatment Why It Is Done How Well It Works Risks What To Think About References Behavioral Methods for Urinary Incontinence Treatment Overview Several types of behavioral methods are used
		  for treating urinary incontinence : bladder training, habit
		  training, biofeedback, and pelvic muscle exercises . People who have incontinence due
		  to physical or mental limitations ( functional incontinence ) can try timed voiding and prompted voiding . Bladder training Bladder training (also called bladder retraining) is used to
			 treat urge incontinence. Bladder training attempts to increase how long you can
			 wait before having to urinate. You are taught about the structure of the lower
			 urinary tract and the causes of incontinence. A schedule for urinating is established, and you are trained to
			 resist the first urge to urinate and to refrain from urinating until the
			 scheduled time. The interval between scheduled bathroom visits is increased
			 until you can refrain from urinating for several hours. Biofeedback Biofeedback is
		  a technique for learning to control a body function that is not normally under
		  conscious control, such as skin temperature, muscle tension, heart rate, or
		  blood pressure. People with incontinence are taught bladder-sphincter
		  biofeedback methods along with pelvic floor exercises. During biofeedback, bladder, rectal sphincter, and abdominal pressures as well as electrical
		  activity are recorded and displayed for you. By watching
		  the information, you learn to relax your bladder and abdominal muscles and
		  contract your pelvic floor muscles based on the information displayed. Learning biofeedback requires practice in a lab or other setting with
		  the guidance of a trained therapist. Home biofeedback units also are
		  available. Pelvic floor muscle training Pelvic floor (Kegel) exercises can help strengthen
		  some of the muscles that control the flow of urine. These exercises are used to treat urge
		  or stress incontinence. To do Kegel exercises: Squeeze the same muscles you would use to stop your urine. Your belly and rear end (buttocks) should not move. Hold the squeeze for 3 seconds, then relax for 3 seconds. Repeat the exercise 10 to 15 times a session. Do three or more sessions a day. Kegel exercises can be done when you are at home or away
		  from home. They can be done at any time of day. No one will be aware that you are
		  doing the exercises. So you can do them often, no matter where you are. Kegel exercises are often combined with biofeedback techniques to teach
		  the proper exercise methods and to make sure the exercise is working. To be
		  effective, pelvic floor (Kegel) exercises with or without biofeedback
		  techniques require a high level of motivation and frequent repetition. What To Expect After Treatment These methods are often successful in decreasing
		  or stopping urinary incontinence. Why It Is Done Behavioral methods may be used to treat: Urge incontinence (using bladder
			 training). Stress and urge incontinence (using pelvic muscle exercises). Functional incontinence (using timed and prompted voiding ). How Well It Works Bladder training Bladder training does not work well for
				everyone. But some people benefit significantly. Many people who
				use bladder training have fewer symptoms of incontinence. For some people, the
				incontinence completely stops. Biofeedback There is not a lot of evidence
		  for biofeedback combined with other behavioral therapies for urinary incontinence. More research
		  is needed. Pelvic floor muscle training Two reviews were done of men using pelvic-floor muscle
		  training to improve continence after prostate surgery. Results were not the same. One review showed that pelvic-floor muscle training did help men
		  control leakage of urine after a radical prostatectomy for prostate
		  cancer. 1 But the other review showed no benefit overall
		  in men trying pelvic-floor muscle training after any prostate surgery. 2 Women who did these exercises for urinary incontinence (urge, stress, or mixed incontinence) got better. The exercises seem to work better in women who have stress urinary incontinence and who keep doing the exercises. 3 Risks No risks are associated with these treatments. What To Think About Behavioral methods such as bladder training require a high level of
		  motivation. To be effective, pelvic floor (Kegel)
		  exercises with or without biofeedback techniques require a high level of
		  motivation and frequent repetition. Complete the special treatment information form (PDF) (What is a PDF document?) to help you understand this treatment. References Citations MacDonald R, et al. (2007). Pelvic floor muscle
	 training to improve urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy: A
	 systematic review of effectiveness. BJU International ,
	 100(1): 76–81. Hunter KF, et al. (2007). Conservative management for
	 postprostatectomy urinary incontinence. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (2). Dumoulin C, Hay-Smith J (2010). Pelvic floor muscle training versus no treatment, or inactive control treatments, for urinary incontinence in women. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (1). Credits By Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer E. Gregory Thompson, MD - Internal Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer Avery L. Seifert, MD - Urology Last Revised March 23, 2011 Top of Page Last Revised: March 23, 2011 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: E. Gregory Thompson, MD - Internal Medicine & Avery L. Seifert, MD - Urology MacDonald R, et al. (2007). Pelvic floor muscle
	 training to improve urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy: A
	 systematic review of effectiveness. BJU International ,
	 100(1): 76–81. Hunter KF, et al. (2007). Conservative management for
	 postprostatectomy urinary incontinence. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (2). Dumoulin C, Hay-Smith J (2010). Pelvic floor muscle training versus no treatment, or inactive control treatments, for urinary incontinence in women. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (1). This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2011 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated. Quick Links Important Numbers Newsroom General Information Current Wait Times About Sanford Health Initiatives and Priorities Contact Us External Sites Edith Sanford Foundation Sanford Health Research Sanford Health Plan Sanford Health Foundation Sanford & WebMD FIT Major Medical Centers Sanford USD Medical Center Sioux Falls Sanford Medical Center Fargo General Information Fargo, ND 800-437-4010 Sioux Falls, SD 605-333-1000 Nurse by Phone ASK-A-NURSE - Fargo, ND 800-821-5167 701-234-5000 Healthformation - Sioux Falls, SD 800-445-5788 605-333-4444 Physician Finder Fargo, ND 877-234-4240 701-234-5570 Sioux Falls, SD 877-945-5678 Latest Sanford Health News Sanford Health Adds 13 Radiologists Sanford Health Recognized for Integration Sanford Partners with NDSU on Research 12th Annual Cares for Kids Radiothon Starts Tomorrow Sanford Physician Recognized for Research View All RSS Newsfeed Resources Contact Media Relations Search the Video Library View the Newsroom From twitter 3 heart docs in the same family all at #SanfordHeart . Together they're making global news for #cardiology innovations http://t.co/9otmrjI0 02:45 PM Mar 04 Find a Location Find a Doctor My Sanford Chart Newsletter Signup Sign Up Follow Us! ©2012 Sanford Health. All rights reserved. Privacy of Health Information Privacy Statement Terms & Conditions