<5 years old per year.  These incidence rates are consistent with those observed recently from other centers in Africa and 4 to10 fold higher than the rates observed in the USA, UK, Australia, that is, countries that are routinely using pneumococcal conjugate vaccines now. A second paper by Vallès et al ( Trop Med Intl Health 2006; 11:358-66) describes the distribution of serotypes from patients with invasive disease and from nasopharyngeal carriage.  In children <5 years old, the serotypes included in the 7-valent vaccine (plus serotype 6A, a serotype that is covered by cross-protection from the serotype 6B in the 7-valent vaccine) account for only 27% of invasive disease.  Serotypes 1 and 5 are shown to account for 50% of disease in this age group. What is useful about the Mozambique papers is the ability to overlay the serotype distribution with the incidence of disease to determine the “vaccine preventable incidence”.  On the basis of the serotype data alone, one might consider that the 7-valent vaccine would not be a useful vaccine, and opt to wait for another vaccine.  However, when one multiplies the incidence rates by the serotype distribution it becomes clear that the “vaccine preventable incidence” – 112 cases per 100,000 – in children less than 5 years old per year exceeds the burden of preventable disease in countries like the USA, UK, and elsewhere. PneumoADIP is interested in hearing back from you on this issue. Do you have an experience with using serotype distribution vs. “vaccine preventable incidence” that would be useful to share with others? If so, please email us at pneuadip@jhsph.edu or hekim@jhsph.edu Funding Opportunities: Pneumococcal Vaccine Research PVS Request for Letters of Inquiry for pneumococcal vaccine research PATH Vaccine Solutions (PVS) is seeking proposals for projects to advance development of new pneumococcal vaccines for administration to infants in low-income countries. PVS is interested in proposals from vaccine manufacturers and academic, public health, and other research institutions for projects that will accelerate vaccine development to serve the countries in greatest need. PVS invites proposals under two distinct categories: (1) Vaccine discovery and development and (2) Research activities in support of vaccine development. PVS’s ultimate goal is to advance development of a pneumococcal vaccine that will be safe, effective, and affordable for distribution by public health systems in developing countries. The deadline for letters of inquiry is October 31, 2006. For more information and submission guidelines, click here . PneumoFOCUS and PneumoALERT are compiled and edited by PneumoADIP communications. For submissions,
                                questions, 