
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8k PHP/5.3.10
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 01:05:26 GMT
Connection: close

Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers | AllergyBuyersClub View Cart | Checkout Store Hours | Order Status I Need Relief From Select Allergies Asthma Bed Bugs Chemicals Dust Mites Humidity Mold & Mildew Pet Dander Pollen Sinuses Shop By Brand Select Air O Swiss Humidifiers Airfree Air Sterilizers Airpura Air Purifiers Alen Air Purifiers Austin Air Purifiers Blueair Air Purifiers Crane Humidifiers Danby Dehumidifiers Delonghi Dehumidifiers Dyson Vacuums Electrolux Vacuum Cleaners Friedrich Dehumidifiers Frigidaire Dehumidifiers IQAir Air Purifiers Ladybug Steam Cleaners Miele Vacuum Cleaners Plasmawave Air Purifiers Santa Fe Dehumidifiers Sebo Vacuum Cleaners Winix Dehumidifiers Whirlpool Air Purifiers All Brands Air Purifiers | Asthma | Bedding | Dehumidifiers | EMF | Furniture | Humidifiers | Lighting | Sinus Care | Steam Cleaners | Vacuum Cleaners | Water Filters | CATALOG Dehumidifiers by Use Home Dehumidifiers Basement Dehumidifiers Dehumidifiers with Pump Bedroom & Quiet Dehumidifiers Crawl Space Dehumidifiers Mold Dehumidifiers Commercial Dehumidifiers Whole House Dehumidifiers Flood Dehumidifiers Indoor Pool Dehumidifiers Small & Portable Dehumidifiers Desiccant Dehumidifiers Dehumidifier Accessories Comparisons Compare Dehumidifiers Reviews Dehumidifier Reviews ON SALE GIFTS New Products Top Categories Air Purifiers Bedding Dehumidifiers Dust Mite Covers Humidifiers Replacement Filters Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters All Categories Air Conditioners Air Purifiers Asthma Treatment Bath Bedding Bed Bug Covers Dust Mite Covers Carpet Cleaners Cleaning Cleaning Supplies Clothing Dehumidifiers Dental Health EMF Shields Fans Floor Cleaners Furnace Filters Furniture Health & Beauty Home Decor Humidifiers Mattresses Natural Lighting Nutrition Supplements Pet Allergy Control Replacement Filters Saunas Sinus Care Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Test Kits UV Sanitization Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters Clearance Center Learning Center Customer Service FAQ Order Catalog Order Status Returns Shipping Policy Programs Affiliates Medical Reimbursement Patient Literature Press / Media Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers Expert: Be the first to write a customer review about Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers. Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers Ebac industrial dehumidifiers for commercial or large home dehumidification help prevent water damage and control odors, mildew, mold, allergies and asthma. Dehumidifiers ratings, reviews and comparisons. Reports by consumer experts. Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers For areas up to 1800 square feet. Removes up to 105 pints of moisture per day. Availability: Due to popular demand shipping Early January 2012. EB DE FRSTAR $1989.00 Qty. Total Humidity Controller Accurately control the relative humidity in a room automatically by powering dehumidifiers & humidifiers on and off to maintain the desired humidity. Availability: Ships out within 1 business day. GA DE HC1 $189.95 Qty. Flood Detective Water Leak Sensor and Alarm Remote sensor will detect as little as 1/32" of water and sound a 92 dB alarm throughout the home or office. Effective and easy-to-install. Availability: Ships out within 1 - 2 business days. FV DE FDALARM $39.95 Qty. View Cart | Checkout Description Features Tech Specs Reviews Buy Here Description of Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers Designed with the professional restorer in mind the Ebac low temperature Free Star dehumidifier is a truly impressive drying machine and will efficiently remove up to 28 gallons of water per day. The specially designed dehumidifier allows superior performance and maintains maximum water removal capacity through high ambient temperatures. A backwards incline fan has sufficient static pressure to move dry air long distances with high efficiency. The affordable and energy efficient Free Star dehumidifier is the perfect fit for areas where renovating and restoration is taking place and needs to be quickly dried. Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers are ideal for someone who... Those who are in the restoration business and needs a powerful low temperature dehumidifier to remove excessive moisture quickly and efficiently. Needs powerful dehumidification up to 28 gallons of water removal per day. Wants a dehumidifier which will remove moisture that may cause corrosion and structural damage. Needs an extremely rugged and durable dehumidifier for harsh environments. Buy Here Top Features of Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers Provides energy efficient humidity control in a wide range of applications "Reverse Cycle" defrosting system for effective low temp operation down to 33°F Integral condensate pump with 20’ of vertical lift Backwards incline fan to move dry air long distances Two stage cooling & drying Drying & defrost indicator lamps Internal/external humidistat inlet air filter Epoxy powder coated chassis for long term protection Low amp draw Protected with GFI plug Adjustable feet How it Works: The Free Star range of units are high capacity dehumidifiers, made to operate at high efficiencies by removing moisture from the air through the refrigeration process. The fan draws the moist air through the cold evaporator coil, which cools the air below its dew point. Moisture forms on the evaporator coil and is collected in the condensate tray, which is equipped with an internal condensate pump for easy removal of collected moisture. The cooled air then passes through the hot condenser coil where it is reheated using the same energy removed during the cooling phase, plus the additional heat generated by the compressor. The air is, therefore, discharged from the dehumidifier at a slightly higher temperature with a lower absolute humidity than that which entered. Continuous circulation of air through the dehumidifier gradually reduces the relative humidity within the area. Because the Free Star range of units are equipped with an internal humidistat, they automatically switch on and off to save energy and expense by maintaining the desired level of humidity with an intermittent operation. Buy Here Top Technical Specifications of Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers &nbsp Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers Coverage Area Up to 1800 sq. ft. Water Removal Capacity 105 pints per day set @ 80°F, 60%, 28+ gallons at saturation Operating Temperature Range 33° - 105°F CFM Low: 437 CFM High: 538 CFM Noise Level 57 dBa Refrigerant Type R22 Power Supply 900 watts, 8 amps, 115V Dimensions 37.9"H x 24.3"W x 18.7"D Weight (lbs) 160 lbs. Warranty 1 yr electrical. 3 yrs compressor, condenser, evaporator Buy Here Top Reports by Experts and Customers - Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers Expert Review: Courtesy of AllergyBuyersClub.com EXPERT REVIEW PARAMETERS STAR RATING 1. Room Coverage Based on 24 Hour Moisture Removal 2. Noise Level 3. Low Temperature Operation 4. Quality of the Continuous Drainage Option Included (Ease of hose attachment, location above the ground to improve the flow of water w/ gravity and provides the hose) 5. Bucket Capacity Not Applicable 6. Size, Weight and Maneuverability 7. Ease of Access to Bucket & to Remove and Replace Not Applicable 8. Energy Rating 9. Ability to Access Filter & to Remove, Clean and Re-install 10. Quality of Construction & Warranty 11. Value for the Price The Ebac Free Star dehumidifier is a powerful low temperature dehumidifier ideal for restoration and water damage applications. This extremely durable and reliable machine will easily remove up to 28 gallons of moisture from even the harshest of conditions. Pluses: Removes up to 28 gallons of moisture in areas as large as 1800 square feet. Operates at temperatures as low as 33 degrees. Internal condensate pump with 20 foot lift and drainage hose allow for easy continuous drainage. Washable filter is easily accessible for effortless cleaning. Epoxy powder coated chassis and a GFI plug add to the durable construction. Backed by 1 year warranty with 3 years on the compressor, evaporator and condenser. Minuses: At 160 lbs, this is a heavy unit and is best for permanent installation. Summary: Are you plagued with severe moisture conditions at extreme temperatures either high or low? If so, the Ebac Free Star could be the best solution. This dehumidifier utilizes a 2 stage cooling and drying to remove up to 28 gallons of moisture quickly and quietly. The hot gas defrost cycle allows for easy operation at temperatures as low as 33 degrees. The washable filter, built in condensate pump and adjustable humidistat provide easy operation and maintenance. With a sturdy metal frame, these units are built to last and would make a fantastic permanent solution for anyone looking for significant drying. Buy Here Top Ebac Free Star Dehumidifiers EB DE FRSTAR $1989.00 Dehumidifiers for industrial and restoration use by Ebac with operation down to 33°F. Availability: Due to popular demand shipping Early January 2012. Total Humidity Controller GA DE HC1 $189.95 Humidity controller will accurately control the relative humidity in a room (choose between 20% to 70% in 5% increments) automatically by connecting to dehumidifiers or humidifiers, and powering these units on and off to maintain the desired humidity in a room. Please Note: Your humidity goal should be 40-50%, and in most cases, the lowest humidity level reached will be 40%. If your unit already has an adjustable humidistat, turn it to the continuous setting if available, or to its highest (driest) setting. more info Availability: Ships out within 1 business day. Flood Detective Water Leak Sensor and Alarm FV DE FDALARM $39.95 Protect your home or office from water damage with our affordable and easy-to-install Flood Detective Water Sensor Alarm. Remote sensor can be placed as far as 8 feet away from alarm and will detect as little as 1/32" of water. more info Availability: Ships out within 1 - 2 business days. Dampguard Mold Prevention Device RT DE DG $99.95 $89.95 Monitors the humidity at the surface. Assists in evaluation of likelihood of mold development. Four easy to read LEDs. Updates every 5 seconds. more info Availability: Ships out within 2 - 3 business days. On Sale - Save $10! P3 International P0270 Mold Alert Digital Thermometer & Hygrometer P3 DE P0270 $39.95 This Hygrometer-Thermometer give the present indoor humidity and temperature along with the dew-point which indicate the present comfort level along with the likelihood of moisture to form on surfaces which could lead to mold & mildew. Includes a max/min humidity/temperature readout with reset capability along with an audible/visual alarm to alert one to high humidity levels. more info Availability: Ships out within 1 - 3 business days. You Might Also Like... P3 International P0270 Mold Alert Digital Thermometer & Hygrometer P3 DE P0270 $39.95 Availability: Ships out within 1 - 3 business days. Dampguard Mold Prevention Device RT DE DG $99.95 $89.95 Availability: Ships out within 2 - 3 business days. On Sale - Save $10! Click here for BBB Business Review © 1998-2012 AllergyBuyersClub.com - A Division of Boston Green Goods Inc. All Rights Reserved. Information presented at AllergyBuyersClub.com is developed by the AllergyBuyersClub Staff+ and is for educational
            purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Use of this online service is subject
            to the disclaimer and the terms
              and conditions . *Free shipping on all orders over $150 for the 48 contiguous states. Excludes some heavyweight items as noted on specific product pages. Contact
            Us - About
            Us - Privacy
            Policy - Shipping - Customer Service - Affiliate Progra