Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

McKenzie Exercise Program McKenzie Exercise Program The McKenzie exercise program is a classification-based  treatment for lower back pain. The exercise involves identifying certain  sub-groups of patients with lower back pain and prescribing exercises based  upon those findings. Advertisement - Article Continues Below Many people think  McKenzie exercise is just extension exercise but its not. This is where much of  the debate as to whether it works or not has come from. Many researchers have compared lower back extension exercises to  different treatments with mixed results – some favour it, other don't. The  argument from those who support this type of treatment is that plain extension  exercise is not a McKenzie exercise program and that in order to see if it works only  patients that have been sub - classified and had proper McKenzie treatment  should be included in the studies. Well, in 2006 this was done (Machado,  de Souza, P. H. Ferreira & M. L. Ferreira 2006). A group of researcher's  reviewed all the research that had looked at using McKenzie exercises properly  and came up with the following conclusions: They found eleven trials that had looked at this and were  high enough quality to include. McKenzie reduced pain and disability slightly more than  passive treatment in the first week, but when it was compared with advice to  stay active, the advice did better at 12 weeks. There was not enough research to see if it was effective in  chronic back pain. Advertisement - Article Continues Below They concluded that although it might be a bit better than  passive treatment the size of the difference was clinically meaningless ie not  a big enough difference to get excited about. They decided it was unproven if  it was effective or not. Personally  I don’t think just doing one thing  is the  answer. Lower back pain is  caused by a combination of things including   poor posture, lack of movement and/or muscular support (poor core  stability) around the lower back and also  poor physical fitness. Anxiety and  worry about back pain makes it much worse. In order to properly manage  lower back pain you have to think about all of these things. See The Spinal Fitness Programme for more details. More on McKenzie exercise program here Lower Back Pain Toolkit Home Page Back Pain Relief Other lower Back Exercise options Advertisement - Article Continues Below References Prodigy 2005. Back pain - lower: Simple low back pain  - follow-up and reassessment. Available at:  http://www.cks.library.nhs.uk/back_pain_lower Machado, L.A.C. et al., 2006. The McKenzie method for  low back pain: a systematic review of the literature with a meta-analysis  approach. Spine , 31(9), p.E254-62. 11-Feb-2011 Home Free e-Course Manage Back Pain Book Back Pain Action Guide Anatomy The Human Spine Back Pain Causes Causes - Overview Non-Specific Back Pain Sciatica Piriformis Syndrome Pregnancy X-Ray and MRI  Scans Lumbar MRI and XRay Symptoms Where it hurts Numbness and Tingling How it Feels Active Treatments Sciatica Exercises Posture Exercise Hub Stretch Exercises Core Stability Fitness Hub Fitness Ideas Back Pain Products Back Support Cushions Best  Mattress Back Pain Treatment Types of Treatment All About Pain Understand Pain Chronic v Acute Pain News and Research Guidelines News/Research Back Pain Blog Essentials Disclaimer Your Questions Site Map Contact About Me Search Subscribe To This Site Custom Search Share | Don't Let Back Pain
      Stop 
    You Living a Normal Life The Back Pain Action Guide is a six step programme that shows you how   you can keep living a normal life and stop worrying about your back   pain. Click on the image   of the book to learn more about what's inside. About Me | Privacy | Terms and Conditions | Disclaimer | *Finance | Contact Copyright © 2006-2012 Paula Fitzpatrick. All rights reserved. By reading this web site you agree to accept our terms and conditions . The general information on this web site  is designed to support,  not replace,  specific medical advice or the relationship between you and your health care provider.  Always seek  specific advice from a physician or oth