Content-Type: text/html
Cache-Control: max-age=469
Date: Wed, 22 Feb 2012 22:05:31 GMT
Connection: close

DiscoveryHealthCME :: Bariatric Surgery Receive CME Credit Please take a moment to review the important CME information on this page. To earn free CME credit for watching this program, you must complete the online CME test and evaluation. You must be registered and signed-in in order to take the test online. Upon successful completion of the test and the evaluation, you will be asked to select your professional category and will be able to print the appropriate credit certificate right from your computer. You must answer a minimum of 7 out of 10 questions correct in order to earn CME credit. Take the online CME test and evaluation . If you would like to download a list of the questions to have with you when you watch the show, click download the CME questions . Click here for a list of CME Requirements by State . Bariatric Surgery: Weighing the Options Available for credit through December 11, 2007 Accreditation This activity has been planned and implemented in accordance with the Essential Areas and Policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) through the joint sponsorship of the University of Wisconsin Medical School and Discovery Health Channel in partnership with ProCom International. The University of Wisconsin Medical School is accredited by the ACCME to provide continuing medical education for physicians The University of Wisconsin Medical School designates this educational activity for a maximum of 1 AMA PRA Category 1 Credit ™. Physicians should only claim credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Program Overview Morbid obesity affects 5.1% of the adult population and is the largest growing subgroup of obesity. Research has suggested that bariatric surgery may be an effective tool for long-term weight loss in morbidly obese patients. Discovery Health CME brings together a group of experts to discuss bariatric surgery as a treatment option. These experts will share the latest data and discuss pertinent issues related to the overall health risks associated with morbid obesity, such as diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and general poor health status. In addition, they will advise when bariatric surgery should be considered as well as the importance of making a lifelong commitment to lifestyle changes after surgery. This program is funded through an educational grant from Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. Learning Objectives At the conclusion of this program, participants should be able to: Identify the epidemiology for overweight, obese, and morbidly obese adults. Describe the significant health risks associated with morbid obesity. Discuss the healthcare costs linked to morbid obesity and associated comorbidities. Describe the recommendations for surgical treatment. Explain the basic differences among various types of bariatric surgery. Review data associated with the impact of bariatric surgery on weight loss, operative mortality, obesity-related comorbidities, and sustained weight loss. Discuss the ways in which clinicians might help appropriate patients seek medical advice concerning bariatric surgery as a treatment option. Discuss the importance of what happens after a person has surgery and how clinicians can help their patients succeed at long-term weight management. Target Audience This program has been developed for physicians who diagnose, treat, refer and/or perform surgery on morbidly obese patients. This program is intended solely for the education of physicians and other healthcare professionals. Any consumers who view this program should consult their physicians regarding any questions they have regarding bariatric surgery. Term of Approval The CME test is valid through December 11, 2007. No credit will be issued after this date. Faculty Disclosure Information Caroline M. Apovian, M.D. Consultant for: Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, LifeScan, MannKind Corporation, Novartis, Pfizer, sanofi-aventis James C. "Butch" Rosser, Jr., M.D. Grants/Research Support: Berchtold Corporation, City of New York, Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., Stryker, Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center (TATRC).
Consultant for: Big Red Frog, LLC, Menache, LLC, Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center (TATRC). Philip R. Schauer, M.D. Grants/Research Support: Ethicon Endo-Surgery, U.S. Surgical, Stryker, Inamed, Gore Medical, Baxter. Pictures: DCI | Discovery Channel | TLC | Animal Planet | Discovery Health | Science Channel | Planet Green Discovery Kids | Military Channel | Discovery News | Investigation Discovery | HD Theater | Turbo | FitTV HowStuffWorks | TreeHugger | Petfinder | PetVideo | Discovery Education Visit the Discovery Store : Toys & Games | Telescopes | DVD Sets | Planet Earth DVD | Gift Ideas By visiting this site, you agree to the terms and conditions of our Visitor Agreement . Please read. Privacy Policy . ATTENTION! We recently updated our privacy policy. The changes are effective as of September 10, 2008. To see the new policy, click here . Questions? See the policy for the contact information. Copyright © 2012 Discovery Communications, LLC. The leadin