Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Forerunnershealthcare :: Obesity surgery India,Cost of gastric bypass surgery India-mumbai,delhi,chennai weight gastric banding surgery India, best surgeon laparoscopic bariatric stapling india,fat removal by surgery, lap band surgeon India, weight loss surgery by banding in India,Gastric Bypass surgery India,info on obesity surgery costs, best gastric banding surgeons,low cost lap band surgery in India Home Medical Tourism The Indian Choice Why Forerunnuers Testimonials Enquiry Form Registration Form Contact 

                  Us Login Orthopaedics Cardiothoracic Cosmetic Surgery Dentistry Opthalmology Oncology Neurosurgery Bariatric/Obesity Surgery IVF 

            (Fertility Treatment) Ayurveda Exotic Spas Health Checkups General and Endoscopy Surgery Conditions of Bariatric Surgery  (Obesity Surgery) Laparoscopic Surgery for Obesity (Bariatric surgery) Obesity today is recognized as a  health problem of epidemic proportions. Obesity refers to a spectrum of  problems of excess weight ranging from mild overweight to the morbidly obese.  Patients with morbid obesity do not respond to medical means of weight loss.  Efforts to treat morbid obesity through controlled diets, behavior modification  and exercise programs are only temporarily successful with the patient  invariably regaining even more weight than the amount lost. Obesity surgery is  the only method by which long-term weight loss can be achieved in these  patients. Seven to nine percent (7-9%) people in India are overweight, of which 20 - 25% are morbidly obese which  amounts to a staggering 2 - 2.5 million people. Incidence of child hood obesity  is on the rise due to changing lifestyles. These people are more likely to  develop obesity related complications at an earlier age. If not addressed today  this problem is likely to compound imposing heavily on medical resources. Surgical procedures for obesity can now be safely performed by endoscopic or  laparoscopic approach. These morbid patients stand to benefit tremendously by  laparoscopic surgery decreasing the hospital stay, minimizing pain and an early  return to activity. Laparoscopic gastric banding has emerged as a highly  popular and successful surgery for morbid obesity. A biocompatible, silicon  band is placed around the stomach just below the food pipe creating a 30ml  pouch (~ 2 table spoonful). The patient feels full after just two bites of food  thus decreasing the intake and resulting in the weight loss. The procedure is  safe, simple and reversible. It can be done as a short stay procedure (hospitalization  for 24 to 48 hours). It is a very patient friendly procedure and has no cut on  the abdominal wall hence an excellent cosmetic result (only few tiny puncture  marks), very little pain is caused by the surgery and patient can resume his or  her work within few days after surgery. Conditions and benefits : Benefits of Minimally Invasive Surgery Definitions of Weight Loss Surgery Effects of  Morbid Obesity FAQs-Morbid Obesity Gastric Bypass vs. Lap Band Laparoscopic  Bariatric Surgery  (Minimal  Access  Surgery  For Obesity) Laparoscopic Biliopancreatic Diversion (Scopinaro procedure) (BPD) Laparoscopic Surgery and Weight Loss Morbid  Obesity Non-Surgical  Treatment  of Morbid  Obesity Restrictive  Procedures Side  Effects  Adjustable Gastric  Banding Side  Effects  Gastric  Bypass Stomach Band new Stomaphyx for gastric bypass Surgical  Treatment of  Morbid Obesity Weight Loss Surgery Statistics Obesity  Causes Why do you fall prey to obesity? Gastric Sleeve (Obesity Surgery) Patient Elizabeth, Dallas AILS Mumbai has been gearing upto this challenge since two years. Weight  Loss  Surgery Obesity and Morbid Obesity OBESE Body Mass Index (BM!) of 30 or greater. (BMI=kg!m2) MORBIDLYOBESE Body Mass Index (BMI) of 40 or greater (Rough equivalent to 45  kg. over your ideal body weight). The clinical guidelines  for consideration are: 45       kg. or more above ideal body weight or a BMI OF 40 or greater BMI       of 35 or greater with one or more obesity related health conditions. Other considerations: History       or documented dietary weight loss attempts Lifelong commitment to       follow-up care and extensive dietary, exercise and medical guidelines. Psychological       evaluation. Obesity related health  conditions that may be improved or resolved with weight loss surgery : Type       II Diabetes High       Blood pressure / heart disease Osteoarthritis       of weight bearing joints Sleep       apnea / respiratory problems Gastro       esophageal reflux / Heartburn Depression Infertility       / menstrual irregularities Skin       breakdown Swollen       legs / skin ulcers Urinary       stress incontinence Extremity       Venous stasis Dyslipidemia       (lipid metabolism abnormalities) Pulmonary       embolus Understanding the  Gastrointestinal Tract: The Esophagus The Stomach The Pylorus The Duodenum The Jejunum The Ileum The Large Intestine Weight  Loss  Surgery   Procedures Restrictive and  Malabsorptive Procedures. 
                    There are  two basic mechanisms of weight loss surgery. Restrictive procedures       decrease food intake by creating a small upper stomach pouch to limit food       intake Malabsorptive procedures       alter digestion, thus causing the food to be properly digested and       completely absorbed. There are several       procedures that combine the restrictive and malabsorptive mechanisms of       weight loss surgery. ^ Back to Top We provide consultancy on obesity surgery, gastric bypass 







                  surgeons, weight control surgery, banding, laparoscopic bariatric 







                  stapling, fat removal by surgery, lap band weight loss surgery 







                  and all the above mentioned surgeries. Tour Options Travel Kit Step by Step Guide Contact Us Security Disclaimer Privacy Policy Sitemap Links Press Videos Ads E-How