< .001). During the 12-week study period, the infants in the control group were found to have a mean of 0.31 episodes of diarrhea (95% CI: 0.22–0.44 episodes) compared with 0.12 episodes (95% CI: 0.05–0.21 episodes) and 0.02 episodes (95% CI: 0.01–0.05 episodes) in the B lactis – and L reuteri –supplemented study groups, respectively ( P < .001). There was no significant effect found on the incidence of acute respiratory illnesses. In another study conducted in child care centers in France, 37 928 healthy children were randomly assigned to be fed either standard yogurt or yogurt supplemented with L casei for 4 months. The children who were fed the probiotic-supplemented yogurt had fewer episodes of diarrhea during the study period than did those who were fed standard yogurt (15.9% vs 22%; P = .03). The results of a meta-analysis of probiotic prevention of acute rotavirus gastroenteritis in child care centers indicated that approximately 7 children would need to have been given LGG to prevent 1 child from developing nosocomial rotavirus gastroenteritis in a child care center setting. 38 To date, the available data do not support routine use of probiotics to prevent nosocomial rotavirus diarrhea in child care centers. However, there may be special circumstances in which probiotic use in children in long-term health care facilities or in child care centers is beneficial. The use of the newly available pentavalent rotavirus vaccine in the United States 39 will likely be a more formidable preventative agent than the use of probiotics in reducing the incidence of the most common form of acute infantile infectious diarrhea. Treatment of Acute Infectious Diarrhea Well-conducted RCTs in healthy children in developed countries have provided good data on the therapeutic benefit of probiotics in children with acute infectious diarrhea. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial by Szymanski et al, 40 administration of LGG significantly shortened the duration of acute rotavirus diarrhea by a mean of 40 hours, but duration of diarrhea of any other etiology was not affected. Probiotic administration also shortened the time necessary for intravenous rehydration by a mean of 18 hours. Results of several other meta-analyses 41 – 43 and a Cochrane review 44 have been published on the benefit of probiotics for treatment of acute infectious diarrhea in children. These reports indicate that probiotics reduce the number of diarrheal stools and the duration of the diarrhea by approximately 1 day. The benefit is strain-dependent. LGG is the most effective probiotic reported to date and is dose-dependent for doses greater than 10 10 colony-forming units. Probiotics also seem to be more effective when given early in the course of diarrhea and are most helpful for otherwise healthy infants and young children with watery diarrhea secondary to viral gastroenteritis but not invasive bacterial infections. Thus, there is evidence to support the use of probiotics, specifically LGG, early in the course of acute infectious diarrhea to reduce the duration by 1 day. Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea Prevention of Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea Meta-analysis of published results of RCTs of probiotic use in the prevention of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in children indicates a beneficial effect. 45 – 48 Treatment with a probiotic was started when antibiotic therapy was initiated for treatment of an acute respiratory infection (otitis media) in most of these studies. Treatment with probiotics compared with placebo reduced the risk of developing antibiotic-associated diarrhea from 28.5% to 11.9% (relative risk [RR]: 0.44 [95% CI: 0.25–77]; P = .006). 45 LGG, B lactis , S thermophilus , and S boulardii have been the most common agents used in RCTs. Approximately 1 in 7 cases of antibiotic-associated diarrhea was prevented by the use of a probiotic. 45 Children in these studies received either a probiotic-supplemented formula or a separate probiotic as preventive treatment. According to 1 reported meta-analysis, probiotic treatment significantly reduced odds of antibiotic-associated diarrhea as compared with placebo (odds ratio [OR]: 0.39 [95% CI: 0.25–0.62]; P < .001) for both the yeast byproduct S boulardii and LGG. There was no significant difference between the 2 treatments; the overall combined OR was 0.37 (95% CI: 0.26–0.53; P < .001) in favor of active probiotic treatment over placebo. 48 Thus, probiotics can be used to reduce the incidence of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Treatment of Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea There have been no published RCTs of children that have investigated the effect of probiotics for treatment of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Thus, their use cannot be recommended. The clinician who is caring for a child with antibiotic-induced diarrhea must weigh the benefits of considering therapy with a probiotic or discontinuing or modifying the antibiotic treatment when possible. No RCTs have been published concerning treatment with probiotics of children with Clostridium difficile antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Atopic Diseases Prevention of Atopic Disease As previously mentioned, the sequence of bacterial intestinal colonization of neonates and young infants is probably important in the development of the immune response. 21 Recognition by the immune system of self and nonself, as well as the type of inflammatory responses generated later in life, are likely affected by the infant's diet and acquisition of the commensal intestinal bacterial population superimposed on genetic predisposition. During pregnancy, the cytokine inflammatory-response profile of the fetus is diverted away from cell-mediated immunity (T-helper 1 [Th1] type) toward humoral immunity (Th2 type). Hence, the Th2 type typically is the general immune response in early infancy. The risk of allergic disease could well be the result of a lack or delay in the eventual shift of the predominant Th2 type of response to more of a balance between Th1- and Th2-type responses. 49 Administration of probiotic bacteria during a time period in which a natural population of lactic-acid–producing indigenous intestinal bacteria is developing could theoretically influence immune development toward more balance of Th1 and Th2 inflammatory responses. 50 The intestinal bacterial flora of atopic children has been demonstrated to differ from that of nonatopic children. Specifically, atopic children have more Clostridium organisms and fewer Bifidobacterium organisms than do nonatopic study subjects, 15 , 51 which has served as the rationale for the administration of probiotics to infants at risk of atopic diseases, particularly for those who are formula fed. In a double-blinded RCT, LGG or a placebo was given initially to 159 women during the final 4 weeks of pregnancy. If the infant was at high risk of atopic disease (atopic eczema, allergic rhinitis, or asthma), the treatment was continued for 6 months after birth in both the lactating woman and her infant. 52 A total of 132 mother-infant pairs were randomly assigned to receive either placebo or LGG and treated for 6 months while breastfeeding. The primary study end point was chronic recurrent atopic eczema in the infant. Atopic eczema was diagnosed in 46 of 132 (35%) of these study children by 2 years of age. The frequency of atopic eczema in the LGG-treated group was 15 of 64 (23%) versus 31 of 68 (46%) in the placebo group (RR: 0.51 [95% CI: 0.32–0.84]; P < .01). The number of mother-infant pairs required to be treated with LGG to prevent 1 case of chronic recurrent atopic eczema was 4.5. By 4 years of age, eczema occurred in 26% of the infants in the group treated with LGG, compared with 46% in the placebo group (RR: 0.57 [95% CI: 0.33–0.97]; P < .01). However, only 67% of the original study group was analyzed at the 4-year follow-up. These results support a preventive effect for giving a probiotic to mothers late in pregnancy and to both mothers and infants during the first 6 months of lactation for the prevention of atopic eczema in infants who are at risk of atopic disease. However, these results have not been confirmed in subsequent clinical trials, as summarized in a recent review by Kopp and Salfeld. 53 Conversely, Taylor et al 54 found that probiotic supplementation did not reduce the risk of atopic dermatitis in children at high risk with the report of some increased risk of subsequent allergen sensitization. As concluded in a review by Prescott and Björkstén 55 and in a 2007 Cochrane review, 56 despite the encouraging results of some studies, there is insufficient evidence to warrant the routine supplementation of probiotics to either pregnant women or infants to prevent allergic diseases in childhood. Explanations for varied study results include host factors such as genetic susceptibility, environmental factors such as geographic region and diet, and study variables including probiotic strains and doses used. 55 , 57 Treatment of Atopic Disease In an RCT, 53 Australian infants with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis were given either Lactobacillus fermentum or placebo for 8 weeks. At final assessment at 16 weeks, significantly more children who received the probiotic had improved extent and severity of atopic dermatitis as measured by the Severity of Scoring of Atopic Dermatitis (SCORAD) index over time compared with those who received placebo ( P = .01). 58 , 59 These results are encouraging, but as summarized in a 2008 Cochrane review, 60 probiotics have not yet been proven to be effective in the treatment of eczema. Prevention of Necrotizing Enterocolitis in Low Birth Weight Neonates A newborn's gut is sterile at birth, with bacterial colonization beginning shortly after birth. 20 – 22 Preterm infants frequently have delayed and aberrant acquisition of the "normal" digestive microflora, possibly because of restricted enteral feedings and frequent use of antibiotic therapy. 61 , 62 Delayed enteral feeding, frequent use of antibiotic therapy, and altered acquisition of normal digestive microflora are believed to be primary contributing factors for the increased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) in preterm infants 63 , 64 and is the rationale for probiotic supplements. In a 2008 Cochrane review 65 based on 9 RCTs, 66 – 74 enteral probiotic supplementation significantly reduced both the incidence of NEC (stage II or more) (RR: 0.32 [95% CI: 0.17–0.60]) and mortality (RR: 0.43 [95% CI: 0.25–0.75]). 65 Nosocomial sepsis was not reduced significantly (RR: 0.93 [95% CI: 0.73–1.19]). A total of 1425 infants who were born at less than 37 weeks' gestational age and/or less than 2500 g birth weight were included in this meta-analysis. No systemic infections or serious adverse events that were directly attributed to the administered probiotic organism were reported for these RCTs. The authors concluded that the results of their analysis supported a change in clinical practice to supplement preterm infants who weighed more than 1000 g at birth with a probiotic. Data regarding the outcome of preterm extremely low birth weight infants who weighed less than 1000 g at birth could not be used by the authors to reliably estimate the efficacy and safety of probiotic supplementation to this high-risk group. A large RCT was recommended to investigate the potential benefit and safety of probiotic supplementation to extremely low birth weight infants. However, because the of large heterogeneity of the studies included in the Cochrane review, 65 caution is urged in interpreting the results, which are somewhat problematic. The studies all used different probiotics, including LGG, Bifidobacterium breve , Saccharomyces species, and mixtures of Bacteroides bifidus , S thermophilus , Lactobacillus acidophilus , and Bifidobacterium infantis . Doses of individual probiotics varied and were administered with human milk feedings, formula feedings, or both human milk and formula feedings in some studies. Not all of the studies had the same end points, including the primary outcome of NEC. A second and larger study by Lin et al, 75 the results of which were published after the Cochrane review, repeated the 2005 study 71 by using a different mixture of probiotics: L acidophilus and B bifidus . The overall incidence of NEC and death was less in the second study 75 compared with that in the first 71 in the controls, and the second study revealed that probiotics did not reduce the incidence of sepsis compared with that in the first, and the intervention group actually had a higher incidence of sepsis. The number needed to treat to prevent 1 case of NEC was 27 in the first study by Lin et al 71 and 21 in the second study. 75 Another point that makes the data problematic is that the combinations of probiotics used in the Lin et al studies, which are the most convincing for NEC prevention, are not available in the United States. Not all probiotics have been studied; therefore, all probiotics cannot be generally recommended. Treatment of Helicobacter pylori Infection There is a modest and encouraging benefit in published RCT results for probiotics used as adjunctive therapy for H pylori gastritis in adults. 76 One RCT in children has been published, 77 and the results demonstrated that the probiotics-supplemented treatment group had better H pylori eradication than did the placebo group (84.6% vs 57.5%; RR: 1.47 [95% CI: 1.1–2.0]). The adverse effects of diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting in both the placebo and probiotic treatment group did not differ significantly. Thus, probiotics may be of some benefit in the eradication of H pylori in children, but more studies are required. Chronic IBD The term IBD is inclusive of patients with either chronic ulcerative colitis (CUC) or Crohn disease. It is estimated that approximately 40% to 70% of children and adult patients suffering with IBD routinely use alternative medicines, including probiotics, as adjunctive or replacement therapy for prescribed medications. 78 – 80 In theory, probiotics may be beneficial in the treatment of IBD. 21 It has been proposed that in individuals with genetic susceptibility to IBD, chronic inflammation occurs in response to commensal digestive microflora because of various inherited defects of innate inflammatory-response pathways. One such identified inherited defect found in patients with Crohn disease is a mutation of the CARD15 gene on chromosome 16, which results in abnormal chronic inflammation in response to bacteria such as Escherichia coli in the digestive tract. 21 Hence, modulating the commensal intestinal bacterial environment with probiotic supplements may reduce the inflammatory response in patients with IBD. 80 Treatment of Chronic Ulcerative Colitis Data from RCTs of probiotics for the treatment of adults with CUC are encouraging. 81 – 84 The administration of probiotics to adults with mild-to-moderate CUC disease activity has comparable efficacy when compared with treatment with anti-inflammatory drugs used to treat CUC, such as mesalamine, as reported in a recently published Cochrane review. 85 The same is true in adult patients with ileoanal pouchitis after colectomy surgery for CUC. Most of these studies use the probiotic mixture VSL#3 (Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Gaithersburg, MD), which is a combination of S thermophilus , Bifidobacterium species, and Lactobacillus species. The probiotic E coli Nissle 1917 (Ardeypharm GmbH, Herdacke, Germany) has also been used successfully to treat mild-to-moderate pouchitis or CUC in adults. 86 One RCT in which 29 children with newly diagnosed CUC were randomly assigned to receive either VSL#3 or a placebo for 1 year had promising results. 87 All study patients were also given standard corticosteroid induction therapy combined with mesalamine maintenance therapy. Remission occurred in 13 patients (92.8%) in the VSL#3 group and 4 patients (36.4%) in the placebo group ( P < .001). Relapse occurred in 3 of 13 (23%) patients in the VSL#3 group versus 11 of 15 (73.3%) in the placebo group within the 1-year study period (RR: 0.32 [95% CI: 0.25–0.773]; P = .014). Although these results are promising, more studies are needed in larger numbers of children to substantiate the benefit of probiotics in managing children with mild-to-moderate CUC. Thus, probiotics for CUC cannot be generally recommended at this time without further confirmatory research. Treatment of Crohn Disease One RCT in which LGG was used in pediatric patients with Crohn disease resulted in no significant benefit. 88 Treating adults with Crohn disease with the probiotics S boulardii , LGG, and E coli Nissle 1917 has not yielded promising results thus far. 89 – 92 A recent Cochrane review indicated that there is, as yet, no proven benefit for maintaining remission by administering probiotics to adults with Crohn disease. 93 Because of the lack of efficacy, treatment of Crohn disease with probiotics cannot be recommended for children. Irritable Bowel Syndrome and Constipation: Treatment There has been a single published RCT of the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in children. 94 LGG reduced abdominal distension and discomfort in a group of 50 pediatric patients over a 6-week study period. Response to therapy was recorded and collected on a weekly basis by using the Digestive Symptom Rating Scale. Various probiotics were shown to be helpful in several other RCTs of treatment of IBS in adults. 95 – 97 One published RCT addressed the use of probiotics (LGG) or a placebo as adjunct therapy to a stool softener (lactulose) to treat functional constipation in 84 children. 98 LGG was not an effective adjunct to lactulose in treating constipation in children. Thus, probiotics may be of benefit in children with IBS on the basis of a single RCT, but a recommendation for them use cannot be made without further confirmatory studies. Probiotics cannot be recommended at this time for treatment of constipation. Infantile Colic Prevention of Colic To date, no RCTs have been conducted with colic as a primary end point. Treatment of Colic Colic is a common condition that typically affects infants in the first 4 months of life. The primary mechanism remains unknown. Available evidence suggests that colic potentially has a number of independent causes, including dietary protein hypersensitivity. 99 , 100 A recent unblinded RCT examined the effect of the administration of L reuteri versus simethicone in the treatment of colic in 90 exclusively breastfed infants in Italy. 100 The administration of L reuteri improved the symptoms of colic (minutes of crying per day) within 1 week of treatment, compared with simethicone therapy. The breastfeeding mothers were instructed to eliminate dairy products from their diets during the study period to minimize potentially confounding adverse effects of dietary protein hypersensitivity. The authors of the study proposed several theories for a positive therapeutic benefit, including probiotic modulation of proinflammatory responses. Further confirmatory RCTs are required to recommend routine use of probiotics in the treatment of infantile colic in both breastfed and formula-fed infants. On the basis of limited information, probiotics may be of benefit in treatment of colic in exclusively breastfed infants, but more studies are needed before they can be recommended. Extraintestinal Infections Prevention of Extraintestinal Infections In a 2001 RCT in 17 Finnish child care centers, 571 healthy children 1 to 6 years of age were studied for 7 months in winter. 33 Children were randomly assigned to receive milk 3 times per day with or without LGG. When the data were adjusted for age, children who were fed milk with LGG, compared with controls, did not have significantly fewer days with respiratory symptoms or fewer days of child care absences because of illness. There were also no significant differences in the numbers of children with a doctor's diagnosis of infection or number of prescriptions for antibiotics when adjusted for age, although the trends favored the children who were fed milk with LGG. Thus, probiotics for the prevention of extraintestinal infections in children cannot be recommended at this time. Treatment of Extraintestinal Infections No RCTs in children have demonstrated definite beneficial effects of administering probiotics to treat extraintestinal infections. The beneficial effects that have been reported in uncontrolled trials in adults with 1 or more types of extraintestinal infection have typically used LGG as a supplement or probiotics added to dairy products. 101 – 103 Thus, probiotics are not recommended for children for treatment of extraintestinal infections. Cancer: Prevention and Treatment Results of published studies have demonstrated the positive benefits of functional foods, such as yogurt, and the administration of probiotics to prevent carcinogenic processes in animal models. 104 As yet, no published RCTs warrant recommendation of routine administration of probiotics to either treat or prevent cancer in adults or children. USE OF PREBIOTICS IN PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF CLINICAL DISEASES TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Few RCTs have been conducted to evaluate the use of prebiotics in preventing or treating specific childhood diseases. 8 Prevention and Treatment of Allergy A 2007 Cochrane review 105 concluded that there was inconclusive evidence for giving prebiotics to prevent allergic disorders in infants. However, in 2008, Arslanoglu et al 106 reported on a 2-year follow-up of an RCT in 132 infants at risk of atopy because of parental atopy. Infants were fed a partially hydrolyzed formula with either an added mixture of FOS and GOS or maltodextrin placebo in the first 6 months of life. Those given the prebiotic mixture of FOS and GOS had a reduced incidence of atopic disease. Cumulative incidences of atopic eczema, recurrent wheezing, and allergic urticaria were higher in the maltodextrin placebo group (27.9%, 20.6%, and 10.3%, respectively) than in the intervention group (13.6%, 7.6%, and 1.5%) ( P = .05). In a 2009 review, van der Aa et al 107 analyzed relevant publications to date and concluded that there is presently not enough evidence to support the use of probiotics, prebiotics, or synbiotics for the prevention or treatment of allergic dermatitis in children. Confirmatory studies of the benefits of prebiotics, especially for children fed formula that is not partially hydrolyzed or infants fed partially hydrolyzed formula, which are already being promoted to reduce the incidence of atopic disease, are needed before any recommendations can be made for the use of prebiotics in infants and toddlers to prevent infection or atopic disease. Other Disorders It has been shown that the addition of dietary fiber has ameliorated diarrheal stools when added to infant formula. 108 Prebiotics, such as oligosaccharides, inulin, and dietary fiber supplements that are contained in bran, psyllium, and barley fiber, are beneficial in maintaining clinical remission in adult patients with CUC, 109 but no RCT results support their use. There have been controlled animal research studies that have shown that prebiotics may prevent or lessen carcinogenic processes, 104 but there have been no RCTs in humans. COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS TO PREVENT ALLERGY TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Clinical benefit in preventing allergic diseases by co-therapy with probiotics and prebiotics in pregnant women and their infants was demonstrated in an RCT in Finland. 110 A total of 1223 pregnant women who had been identified to deliver infants who would be at high risk of atopic disease because of parental atopic disease history were randomly assigned to be given a mixture of 4 probiotic strains plus GOS or placebo daily for 2 to 4 weeks before delivery. After delivery, their infants then either received the same probiotic mixture plus GOS or the same placebo as the mother. Probiotic/prebiotic treatment showed no effect on the cumulative occurrence of allergic diseases but tended to reduce immunoglobulin E–associated (atopic) diseases (OR: 0.71 [95% CI: 0.50–1.00]; P = .052). Probiotic and prebiotic treatment reduced the occurrence of eczema (OR: 0.74 [95% CI: 0.55–0.98]; P = .035) and atopic eczema (OR: 0.66 [95% CI: 0.46–0.95]; P = .025). Confirmatory studies are necessary. PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN INFANT FORMULA TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Prebiotics As mentioned earlier in this review, human milk contains a number of substances that are prebiotic, the most plentiful of which are oligosaccharides. 19 , 30 Oligosaccharide prebiotics are also added to many commercially available dietary food supplements. Regarding their addition to infant formula, the European Commission's Scientific Committee on Food concluded in 2003 111 that they had no major concerns regarding the addition of oligosaccharides to infant formulas, including follow-up infant formulas (formulas modified especially for 6- to 12-month-old infants), up to a total concentration of 0.8 g/dL in ready-to-feed formula products. Few RCTs have examined the effects of adding prebiotic oligosaccharides to infant formula. 106 , 112 , 113 Boehm et al 113 studied the effect of the addition of oligosaccharides at a concentration of 1 g/dL to preterm infant formula for 1 month (90% GOSs and 10% FOSs). Stool bifidobacteria counts in the oligosaccharide-supplemented group increased significantly compared with the nonsupplemented group, and the bifidobacteria counts reached the range of a breastfed reference group. In a separate study, Moro et al 114 fed term infants the same oligosaccharide-supplemented formula. These infants had higher counts of bifidobacteria as well as lactobacilli in their stools. Schmelzle et al 115 conducted a multicenter trial that also examined the efficacy of the addition of prebiotics to infant formula. They reported good overall tolerance and no adverse effects during the 12-week study period. A large multicenter trial to evaluate the safety of FOS-supplemented infant formula was conducted in the United States in 2004. 116 The study demonstrated that infant growth was maintained during the 12-week study period for the FOS-supplemented infant-formula group without any adverse effects. After weaning infants from formula, the addition of prebiotics to solid food seems to have a bifidogenic effect, as shown by the results of a recently published RCT by Scholtens et al. 117 Infant formulas that contain either GOS or FOS are now marketed in the United States. However, more information, including data from RCTs, is needed before the efficacy of adding prebiotics to infant formulas can be determined. Probiotics Two infant formulas currently contain a probiotic. One contains B lactis , and the other contains LGG. These probiotics are only added to powdered formulas at present. The rationale for adding probiotic organisms to infant formula was discussed in the introduction of this clinical report. The overall health-benefit efficacy of adding probiotics to infant formula remains to be demonstrated in large RCTs. SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND PREBIOTICS IN INFANTS AND CHILDREN TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Concerns exist about the overall safety of administering probiotic products to high-risk patient groups, including adults, children, and term and preterm infants. Cases of serious infection have occurred and been reported in the literature. 10 , 118 – 125 Patients at risk would be those who are immunocompromised, including ill preterm neonates, and/or children who have intravenous catheters or other indwelling medical devices. In most cases, the offending organism that caused the sepsis seems to have stemmed from bacteria from the individual's own endogenous flora. Sepsis has also been reported in adults, children, and infants who received probiotic supplements. 118 , 124 – 126 Land et al 126 recently reported LGG probiotic sepsis occurring in immunocompromised infants and children. A medically fragile infant 6 weeks of age became septic with a strain of LGG that was being provided as a supplement. Molecular DNA-fingerprinting confirmed that the LGG probiotic supplement was the bacterial isolate from the infant. Neonatal sepsis and meningitis that were apparently associated with the administration of a probiotic supplement were also reported. 118 , 120 A recent report focused on probiotic tolerance and safety in healthy term infants who were randomly assigned to be given a high-dose probiotic formula, a low-dose probiotic formula, or control formula for 18 months. 35 There were no apparent reported adverse events. All infants demonstrated normal growth. Reports of colic were significantly fewer in the 2 probiotic- formula–fed groups, and the frequency of health care visits and antibiotic use was less ( P < .001) compared with those in the control formula group. In a separate study, Petschow et al 127 reported that healthy term infants given varying amounts of LGG in infant formula for 2 weeks resulted in good overall feeding tolerance with successful intestinal tract colonization, without adverse events. The apparent safety to date of adding prebiotics to infant formula has been evaluated in the previously discussed RCTs reported by Boehm et al, 113 Moro et al, 114 Schmelzle et al, 115 and Bettler and Euler. 116 SUMMARY ON SAFETY TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES The Committee on Nutrition of the European Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition previously concluded that more studies are required to establish the safety and efficacy of probiotic and prebiotic products in children. 12 To date, these products seem to be safe for healthy infants and children. The committee also stated that it would be optimal to have a centralized mechanism of oversight to ensure probiotic microorganism safety, identity, and genetic stability. 12 Centralized oversight and probiotic product monitoring was also recommended in a report from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations World Health Organization. 1 , 2 , 128 This organization supports the addition of prebiotic products to infant formulas designed as follow-up formulas meant for infants aged 5 months and older. It was reasoned that these infants are more likely to have a more mature immune response and established intestinal colonization. In terms of oversight and product safety in the United States, products marketed as dietary supplements, such as probiotics, do not require premarket review and approval by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, probiotics or prebiotics that are marketed specifically for the treatment or prevention of a disease are classified as biological products and do require FDA review and approval. Infant formulas must be made with compliance with what are considered good manufacturing practices under the Infant Formula Act of 1980 and are under the regulatory auspices of the FDA 129 because these products are often used as the sole source of nutrition by infants during a critical period of growth and development. Additional statutory and regulatory requirements address appropriate infant formula manufacture, composition, and nutrient content. All ingredients used in infant formula must be safe and lawful—that is, food ingredients that are, to date, generally regarded as safe (GRAS) for use in infant formula and those that are used in accordance with the food-additive regulations of the FDA. Prebiotics and probiotics now being added to commercial infant formulas are classified as GRAS. Information on FDA regulations for infant formula and food ingredients and packaging may be found at www.fda.gov/Food/FoodSafety/Product-SpecificInformation/InfantFormula/default.htm and www.fda.gov/Food/FoodIngredientsPackaging/default.htm . DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES The AAP Committee on Nutrition and Section on Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition used review of the literature, including Cochrane reviews, and reports from other groups. 12 , 111 , 128 Comments also were solicited from committees, sections, and councils of the AAP; 9 entities responded. Additional comments were sought from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the US Department of Agriculture, and the FDA because these governmental agencies have official liaisons to the Committee on Nutrition and were present during the development of the statement. For recommendations for which high levels of evidence are absent, the expert opinions and suggestions of the members of the Committee on Nutrition and other groups and authorities consulted were taken into consideration in developing this clinical report. SUMMARY TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Human milk, a natural prebiotic, is preferred for infants through 6 months of age. 130 The oligosaccharide content of human milk is substantial and is part of the prebiotic components of the human milk. Breastfed infants typically have a preponderance of naturally occurring probiotic bacteria in their digestive systems. There may be some naturally occurring probiotic bacteria contained in human milk. There is some evidence in otherwise healthy infants and young children to support the use of probiotics early in the course of diarrhea from acute viral gastroenteritis and that use of probiotics reduces its duration by 1 day. However, the available evidence does not support the routine use of probiotics to prevent infectious diarrhea unless there are special circumstances. There is some evidence to support the use of probiotics to prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea but no evidence that it is beneficial for treatment. Although the results of some studies support the prophylactic use of probiotics during pregnancy and lactation and during the first 6 months of life in infants who are at risk of atopic disorders, further confirmatory evidence is necessary before a recommendation for routine use can be made. There is some evidence to support the use of probiotics to prevent NEC in preterm infants with a birth weight of 1000 g or higher. However, the amount and specificity of which probiotic or mixture of probiotics to use is problematic, given the many unanswered questions from a review of the available literature. Furthermore, many of the probiotics used and cited in the literature for treatment in preterm infants are not readily available. At the present time, the sustained or long-term benefit of using probiotics for treating disorders such as Crohn disease, IBS, constipation, and extraintestinal infections requires further RCTs and cannot be recommended in children. There may benefit for treating H pylori infections, CUC, and infantile colic with probiotics in childhood, but further studies are necessary. Long-term health benefits of probiotics in the prevention of cancer, allergy, or other diseases or providing sustained beneficial results on the developing immune system beyond early infancy remain to be proven. Addition of probiotics to powdered infant formulas has not been demonstrated to be harmful to healthy term infants. On the other hand, evidence of clinical efficacy for their addition is insufficient to recommend the routine use of these formulas. No RCTs have directly compared the health benefits of feeding human milk versus infant formula supplemented with probiotics. Probiotics should not be given to children who are seriously or chronically ill until the safety of administration has been established. Prebiotics may prove to be beneficial in reducing common infections and atopy in otherwise healthy children. However, confirmatory studies, especially in children fed formula that is not partially hydrolyzed, are needed before any recommendations can be made. Addition of oligosaccharides as prebiotics to infant formula is not unreasonable but lacks evidence demonstrating clinical efficacy at this time. Cost/benefit studies are also necessary to support their addition to infant formulas. Important questions remain in establishing the clinical applications for probiotics, including the optimal duration of probiotic administration as well as preferred microbial dose and species. The long-term impact on the gut microflora in children is unknown. It also remains to be established whether there is significant biological benefit in the administration of probiotics during pregnancy and lactation, with direct comparison to potential biological benefit derived from probiotic-containing infant formulas. Similar questions exist for the use of prebiotics. Appendix 1 contains examples of currently available probiotic products and the probiotic content of various functional foods in the United States. This list demonstrates the wide variation in probiotic content in these products. Information about other probiotics can also be found on a Web site maintained by industry ( www.usprobiotics.org ). Lead Authors TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Dan W. Thomas, MD Frank R. Greer, MD, Immediate Past Chairperson Committee on Nutrition, 2009–2010 TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Jatinder J. S. Bhatia, MD, Chairperson Steven A. Abrams, MD Stephen R. Daniels, MD, PhD Marcie Beth Schneider, MD Janet Silverstein, MD Nicolas Stettler, MD, MSCE Dan W. Thomas, MD Liaisons TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Laurence Grummer-Strawn, PhD Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Rear Admiral Van S. Hubbard, MD, PhD National Institutes of Health Valérie Marchand, MD Canadian Paediatric Society Benson M. Silverman, MD Food and Drug Administration Valery Soto, MS, RD, LD US Department of Agriculture Section on Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition Executive Committee, 2009–2010 TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Leo A. Heitlinger, MD, Chairperson Robert D. Baker Jr, MD, PhD David A. Gremse, MD Roberto Gugig, MD Jenifer R. Lightdale, MD Former Executive Committee Members TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES William J. Byrne, MD William J. Cochran, MD Arthur R. Euler, MD Melvin B. Heyman, MD Staff TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Debra L. Burrowes, MHA dburrowes@aap.org View this table: [in this window] [in a new window] APPENDIX 1 Selected Dietary Supplements FOOTNOTES The guidance in this report does not indicate an exclusive course of treatment or serve as a standard of medical care. Variations, taking into account individual circumstances, may be appropriate. This document is copyrighted and is property of the American Academy of Pediatrics and its Board of Directors. All authors have filed conflict of interest statements with the American Academy of Pediatrics. Any conflicts have been resolved through a process approved by the Board of Directors. The American Academy of Pediatrics has neither solicited nor accepted any commercial involvement in the development of the content of this publication. All clinical reports from the American Academy of Pediatrics automatically expire 5 years after publication unless reaffirmed, revised, or retired at or before that time. REFERENCES TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS WHAT ARE PROBIOTICS WHAT ARE PREBIOTICS INTESTINAL BACTERIAL... USE OF PROBIOTICS IN... USE OF PREBIOTICS IN... COMBINED PREBIOTICS AND... PREBIOTICS AND PROBIOTICS IN... SAFETY OF PROBIOTICS AND... SUMMARY ON SAFETY DEVELOPMENT OF THIS REPORT SUMMARY Lead Authors Committee on Nutrition, 2009... Liaisons Section on Gastroenterology,... Former Executive Committee... Staff REFERENCES Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; World Health Organization. Guidelines for the evaluation of probiotics in food: joint FAO/WHO Working Group report on drafting guidelines for the evaluation of probiotics in food. Available at: ftp://ftp.fao.org/es/esn/food/wgreport2.pdf . Accessed October 1, 2010 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; World Health Organization. Health and nutritional properties of probiotics in food including powder milk with live lactic acid bacteria: report of a joint FAO/WHO expert consultation on evaluation of health and nutritional properties of probiotics in food including powder milk with live lactic acid bacteria. Available at: www.who.int/foodsafety/publications/fs_management/en/probiotics.pdf . Accessed October 1, 2010 Council for Agricultural Science and Technology. Probiotics: Their Potential to Impact Human Health . Ames, IA: Council for Agricultural Science and Technology; 2007. Available at: www.cast-science.org/websiteUploads/publicationPDFs/CAST%20Probiotics%20Issue%20Paper%20FINAL144.pdf . Accessed October 1, 2010 Roberfroid M. Prebiotics: the concept revisited. J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):830S–837S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Commane DM, Shortt CT, Silvi S, Cresci A, Hughes RM, Rowland IR. Effects of fermentation products of pro- and prebiotics on trans-epithelial electrical resistance in an in vitro model of the colon. Nutr Cancer . 2005;51(1):102–109 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Falony G, Vlachou A, Verbrugghe K, De Vuyst L. Cross-feeding between Bifidobacterium longum BB536 and acetate-converting, butyrate-producing colon bacteria during growth on oligofructose. Appl Environ Microbiol . 2006;72(12):7835–7841 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Grönlund MM, Gueimonde M, Laitinen K, et al. Maternal breast-milk and intestinal bifidobacteria guide the compositional development of the Bifidobacterium microbiota in infants at risk of allergic disease. Clin Exp Allergy . 2007;37(12):1764–1772 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kullen MJ, Bettler J. The delivery of probiotics and prebiotics to infants. Curr Pharm Des . 2005;11(1):55–74 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Michail S, Sylvester F, Fuchs G, Issenman R. Clinical efficacy of probiotics: review of the evidence with focus on children. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2006;43(4):550–557 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Boyle RJ, Robins-Browne RM, Tang ML. Probiotic use in clinical practice: what are the risks? Am J Clin Nutr . 2006;83(6):1256–1264; quiz 1446–1257 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Szajewska H, Setty M, Mrukowicz J, Guandalini S. Probiotics in gastrointestinal diseases in children: hard and not-so-hard evidence of efficacy. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2006;42(5):454–475 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Agostoni C, Axelsson I, Braegger C, et al. Probiotic bacteria in dietetic products for infants: a commentary by the ESPGHAN Committee on Nutrition. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2004;38(4):365–374 [Web of Science] [Medline] Saavedra JM. Clinical applications of probiotic agents. Am J Clin Nutr . 2001;73(6):1147S–1151S [Web of Science] [Medline] Matarese LE, Seidner DL, Steiger E. The role of probiotics in gastrointestinal disease. Nutr Clin Pract . 2003;18(6):507–516 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Björkstén B, Naaber P, Sepp E, Mikelsaar M. The intestinal microflora in allergic Estonian and Swedish 2-year-old children. Clin Exp Allergy . 1999;29(3):342–346 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Heller F, Duchmann R. Intestinal flora and mucosal immune responses. Int J Med Microbiol . 2003;293(1):77–86 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Berg RD. Bacterial translocation from the gastrointestinal tract. Adv Exp Med Biol . 1999;473:11–30 [Web of Science] [Medline] Quan R, Barness LA. Do infants need nucleotide supplemented formula for optimal nutrition? J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 1990;11(4):429–434 [Web of Science] [Medline] Boehm G, Stahl B. Oligosaccharides from milk. J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):847S–849S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Yoshioka H, Iseki K, Fujita K. Development and differences of intestinal flora in the neonatal period in breast-fed and bottle-fed infants. Pediatrics . 1983;72(3):317–321 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Weng M, Walker W. Bacterial colonization, probiotics, and clinical disease. J Pediatr . 2006;149(5):S107–S114 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] Pietzak M. Bacterial colonization of the neonatal gut. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2004;38(4):389–391 [Web of Science] [Medline] Tannock G. The intestinal microflora. In: Fuller R, Perdigón G, eds. Gut Flora, Nutrition, Immunity and Health . Oxford, England: Blackwell Press; 2003:1–23 Turnbaugh PJ, Ley RE, Hamady M, Fraser-Liggett CM, Knight R, Gordon JI. The human microbiome project. Nature . 2007;449(7164):804–810 [CrossRef] [Medline] Winkler P, Ghadimi D, Schrezenmeir J, Kraehenbuhl JP. Molecular and cellular basis of microflora-host interactions. J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):756S–772S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Calder PC. Immunological parameters: what do they mean? J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):773S–780S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Corthésy B, Gaskins HR, Mercenier A. Cross-talk between probiotic bacteria and the host immune system. J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):781S–790S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Matsuzaki T, Takagi A, Ikemura H, Matsuguchi T, Yokokura T. Intestinal microflora: probiotics and autoimmunity. J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):798S–802S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Yuan Q, Walker WA. Innate immunity of the gut: mucosal defense in health and disease. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2004;38(5):463–473 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Donovan S. Role of human milk components in gastrointestinal development: current knowledge and future needs. J Pediatr . 2006;149(5):S49–S61 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] Perez PF, Doré J, Leclerc M, et al. Bacterial imprinting of the neonatal immune system: lessons from maternal cells? Pediatrics . 2007;119(3). Available at: www.pediatrics.org/cgi/content/full/119/3/e724 Oberhelman RA, Gilman RH, Sheen P, et al. A placebo-controlled trial of Lactobacillus GG to prevent diarrhea in undernourished Peruvian children. J Pediatr . 1999;134(1):15–20 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Hatakka K, Savilahti E, Ponka A, et al. Effect of long term consumption of probiotic milk on infections in children attending day care centres: double blind, randomised trial. BMJ . 2001;322(7298):1327 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Thibault H, Aubert-Jacquin C, Goulet O. Effects of long-term consumption of a fermented infant formula (with Bifidobacterium breve c50 and Streptococcus thermophilus 065) on acute diarrhea in healthy infants. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2004;39(2):147–152 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Saavedra JM, Abi-Hanna A, Moore N, Yolken RH. Long-term consumption of infant formulas containing live probiotic bacteria: tolerance and safety. Am J Clin Nutr . 2004;79(2):261–267 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Weizman Z, Asli G, Alsheikh A. Effect of a probiotic infant formula on infections in child care centers: comparison of two probiotic agents. Pediatrics . 2005;115(1):5–9 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Pedone CA, Arnaud CC, Postaire ER, Bouley CF, Reinert P. Multicentric study of the effect of milk fermented by Lactobacillus casei on the incidence of diarrhoea. Int J Clin Pract . 2000;54(9):568–571 [Web of Science] [Medline] Szajewska H, Kotowska M, Mrukowicz JZ, Armanska M, Mikolajczyk W. Efficacy of Lactobacillus GG in prevention of nosocomial diarrhea in infants. J Pediatr . 2001;138(3):361–365 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Cortese MM, Parashar UD. Prevention of rotavirus gastroenteritis among infants and children: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) [published correction appears in MMWR Recomm Rep . 2010;59(33):1074]. MMWR Recomm Rep . 2009;58(RR-2):1–25 [Medline] Szyma ski H, Pejcz J, Jawie M, Chmielarczyk A, Strus M, Heczko PB. Treatment of acute infectious diarrhoea in infants and children with a mixture of three Lactobacillus rhamnosus strains: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Aliment Pharmacol Ther . 2006;23(2):247–253 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Szajewska H, Mrukowicz JZ. Probiotics in the treatment and prevention of acute infectious diarrhea in infants and children: a systematic review of published randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2001;33(suppl 2):S17–S25 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Van Niel CW, Feudtner C, Garrison MM, Christakis DA. Lactobacillus therapy for acute infectious diarrhea in children: a meta-analysis. Pediatrics . 2002;109(4):678–684 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Huang JS, Bousvaros A, Lee JW, Diaz A, Davidson EJ. Efficacy of probiotic use in acute diarrhea in children: a meta-analysis. Dig Dis Sci . 2002;47(11):2625–2634 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Allen SJ, Okoko B, Martinez E, Gregorio G, Dans LF. Probiotics for treating infectious diarrhoea. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2004;(2):CD003048 Szajewska H, Ruszczynski M, Radzikowski A. Probiotics in the prevention of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in children: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. J Pediatr . 2006;149(3):367–372 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Corrêa NB, Péret Filho LA, Penna FJ, Lima FM, Nicoli JR. A randomized formula controlled trial of Bifidobacterium lactis and Streptococcus thermophilus for prevention of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in infants. J Clin Gastroenterol . 2005;39(5):385–389 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Hawrelak JA, Whitten DL, Myers SP. Is Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG effective in preventing the onset of antibiotic-associated diarrhoea: a systematic review. Digestion . 2005;72(1):51–56 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] D'Souza AL, Rajkumar C, Cooke J, Bulpitt CJ. Probiotics in prevention of antibiotic associated diarrhoea: meta-analysis. BMJ . 2002;324(7350):1361 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Neaville WA, Tisler C, Bhattacharya A, et al. Developmental cytokine response profiles and the clinical and immunologic expression of atopy during the first year of life. J Allergy Clin Immunol . 2003;112(4):740–746 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Majamaa H, Isolauri E. Probiotics: a novel approach in the management of food allergy. J Allergy Clin Immunol . 1997;99(2):179–185 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kalliomäki M, Kirjavainen P, Eerola E, Kero P, Salminen S, Isolauri E. Distinct patterns of neonatal gut microflora in infants in whom atopy was and was not developing. J Allergy Clin Immunol . 2001;107(1):129–134 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kalliomäki M, Salminen S, Poussa T, Arvilommi H, Isolauri E. Probiotics and prevention of atopic disease: 4-year follow-up of a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet . 2003;361(9372):1869–1871 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kopp MV, Salfeld P. Probiotics and prevention of allergic disease. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care . 2009;12(3):298–303 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Taylor AL, Dunstan JA, Prescott SL. Probiotic supplementation for the first 6 months of life fails to reduce the risk of atopic dermatitis and increases the risk of allergen sensitization in high-risk children: a randomized controlled trial. J Allergy Clin Immunol . 2007;119(1):184–191 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Prescott SL, Björkstén B. Probiotics for the prevention or treatment of allergic diseases. J Allergy Clin Immunol . 2007;120(2):255–262 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Osborn DA, Sinn JK. Probiotics in infants for prevention of allergic disease and food hypersensitivity. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2007;(4):CD006475 Penders J, Stobberingh EE, van den Brandt PA, Thijs C. The role of the intestinal microbiota in the development of atopic disorders. Allergy . 2007;62(11):1223–1236 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Weston S, Halbert A, Richmond P, Prescott SL. Effects of probiotics on atopic dermatitis: a randomised controlled trial. Arch Dis Child . 2005;90(9):892–897 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Viljanen M, Savilahti E, Haahtela T, et al. Probiotics in the treatment of atopic eczema/dermatitis syndrome in infants: a double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Allergy . 2005;60(4):494–500 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Boyle RJ, Bath-Hextall FJ, Leonardi-Bee J, Murrell DF, Tang ML. Probiotics for treating eczema. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2008;(4):CD006135 Gewolb IH, Schwalbe RS, Taciak VL, Harrison TS, Panigrahi P. Stool microflora in extremely low birthweight infants. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed . 1999;80(3):F167–173 Penders J, Thijs C, Vink C, et al. Factors influencing the composition of the intestinal microbiota in early infancy. Pediatrics . 2006;118(2):511–521 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Kliegman RM. The relationship of neonatal feeding practices and the pathogenesis and prevention of necrotizing enterocolitis. Pediatrics . 2003;111(3):671–672 [ Free Full Text] Cotten CM, Taylor S, Stoll B, et al; NICHD Neonatal Research Network. Prolonged duration of initial empirical antibiotic treatment is associated with increased rates of necrotizing enterocolitis and death for extremely low birth weight infants. Pediatrics . 2009;123(1):58–66 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Alfaleh K, Bassler D. Probiotics for prevention of necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm infants. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2008;(1):CD005496 Bin-Nun A, Bromiker R, Wilschanski M, et al. Oral probiotics prevent necrotizing enterocolitis in very low birth weight neonates. J Pediatr . 2005;147(2):192–196 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Costalos C, Skouteri V, Gounaris A, et al. Enteral feeding of premature infants with Saccharomyces boulardii . Early Hum Dev . 2003;74(2):89–96 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Dani C, Biadaioli R, Bertini G, Martelli E, Rubaltelli FF. Probiotics feeding in prevention of urinary tract infection, bacterial sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm infants: a prospective double-blind study. Biol Neonate . 2002;82(2):103–108 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kitajima H, Sumida Y, Tanaka R, Yuki N, Takayama H, Fujimura M. Early administration of Bifidobacterium breve to preterm infants: randomised controlled trial. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed . 1997;76(2):F101–F107 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Li Y, Shimizu T, Hosaka A, Kaneko N, Ohtsuka Y, Yamashiro Y. Effects of Bifidobacterium breve supplementation on intestinal flora of low birth weight infants. Pediatr Int . 2004;46(5):509–515 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Lin HC, Su BH, Chen AC, et al. Oral probiotics reduce the incidence and severity of necrotizing enterocolitis in very low birth weight infants. Pediatrics . 2005;115(1):1–4 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Manzoni P, Mostert M, Leonessa ML, et al. Oral supplementation with Lactobacillus casei subspecies rhamnosus prevents enteric colonization by Candida species in preterm neonates: a randomized study. Clin Infect Dis . 2006;42(12):1735–1742 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Millar MR, Bacon C, Smith SL, Walker V, Hall MA. Enteral feeding of premature infants with Lactobacillus GG. Arch Dis Child . 1993;69(5 spec No.):483–487 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Reuman PD, Duckworth DH, Smith KL, Kagan R, Bucciarelli RL, Ayoub EM. Lack of effect of Lactobacillus on gastrointestinal bacterial colonization in premature infants. Pediatr Infect Dis . 1986;5(6):663–668 [Web of Science] [Medline] Lin HC, Hsu CH, Chen HL, et al. Oral probiotics prevent necrotizing enterocolitis in very low birth weight preterm infants: a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial. Pediatrics . 2008;122(4):693–700 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Lesbros-Pantoflickova D, Corthesy-Theulaz I, Blum AL. Helicobacter pylori and probiotics. J Nutr . 2007;137(3 suppl 2):812S–818S [Abstract/ Free Full Text] S kora J, Valeckova K, Amlerova J, et al. Effects of a specially designed fermented milk product containing probiotic Lactobacillus casei DN-114 001 and the eradication of H. pylori in children: a prospective randomized double-blind study. J Clin Gastroenterol . 2005;39(8):692–698 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Day AS, Whitten KE, Bohane TD. Use of complementary and alternative medicines by children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease. J Paediatr Child Health . 2004;40(12):681–684 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Heuschkel R, Afzal N, Wuerth A, et al. Complementary medicine use in children and young adults with inflammatory bowel disease. Am J Gastroenterol . 2002;97(2):382–388 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Sartor RB. Therapeutic manipulation of the enteric microflora in inflammatory bowel diseases: antibiotics, probiotics, and prebiotics. Gastroenterology . 2004;126(6):1620–1633 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kruis W, Schutz E, Fric P, Fixa B, Judmaier G, Stolte M. Double-blind comparison of an oral Escherichia coli preparation and mesalazine in maintaining remission of ulcerative colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther . 1997;11(5):853–858 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Rembacken BJ, Snelling AM, Hawkey PM, Chalmers DM, Axon AT. Non-pathogenic Escherichia coli versus mesalazine for the treatment of ulcerative colitis: a randomised trial. Lancet . 1999;354(9179):635–639 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kruis W, Fric P, Pokrotnieks J, et al. Maintaining remission of ulcerative colitis with the probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 is as effective as with standard mesalazine. Gut . 2004;53(11):1617–1623 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Ishikawa H, Akedo I, Umesaki Y, Tanaka R, Imaoka A, Otani T. Randomized controlled trial of the effect of bifidobacteria-fermented milk on ulcerative colitis. J Am Coll Nutr . 2003;22(1):56–63 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Mallon P, McKay D, Kirk S, Gardiner K. Probiotics for induction of remission in ulcerative colitis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2007;(4):CD005573 Mimura T, Rizzello F, Helwig U, et al. Once daily high dose probiotic therapy (VSL#3) for maintaining remission in recurrent or refractory pouchitis. Gut . 2004;53(1):108–114 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Miele E, Pascarella F, Giannetti E, Quaglietta L, Baldassano RN, Staiano A. Effect of a probiotic preparation (VSL#3) on induction and maintenance of remission in children with ulcerative colitis. Am J Gastroenterol . 2009;104(2):437–443 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Bousvaros A, Guandalini S, Baldassano RN, et al. A randomized, double-blind trial of Lactobacillus GG versus placebo in addition to standard maintenance therapy for children with Crohn's disease. Inflamm Bowel Dis . 2005;11(9):833–839 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Schultz M, Timmer A, Herfarth HH, Sartor RB, Vanderhoof JA, Rath HC. Lactobacillus GG in inducing and maintaining remission of Crohn's disease. BMC Gastroenterol . 2004;4:5 [CrossRef] [Medline] Plein K, Hotz J. Therapeutic effects of Saccharomyces boulardii on mild residual symptoms in a stable phase of Crohn's disease with special respect to chronic diarrhea: a pilot study. Z Gastroenterol . 1993;31(2):129–134 [Web of Science] [Medline] Malchow HA. Crohn's disease and Escherichia coli : a new approach in therapy to maintain remission of colonic Crohn's disease? J Clin Gastroenterol . 1997;25(4):653–658 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Prantera C, Scribano ML, Falasco G, Andreoli A, Luzi C. Ineffectiveness of probiotics in preventing recurrence after curative resection for Crohn's disease: a randomised controlled trial with Lactobacillus GG. Gut . 2002;51(3):405–409 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Rolfe VE, Fortun PJ, Hawkey CJ, Bath-Hextall F. Probiotics for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2006;(4):CD004826 Bausserman M, Michail S. The use of Lactobacillus GG in irritable bowel syndrome in children: a double-blind randomized control trial. J Pediatr . 2005;147(2):197–201 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kim HJ, Vazquez Roque MI, Camilleri M, et al. A randomized controlled trial of a probiotic combination VSL# 3 and placebo in irritable bowel syndrome with bloating. Neurogastroenterol Motil . 2005;17(5):687–696 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] O'Mahony L, McCarthy J, Kelly P, et al. Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium in irritable bowel syndrome: symptom responses and relationship to cytokine profiles. Gastroenterology . 2005;128(3):541–551 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kim HJ, Camilleri M, McKinzie S, et al. A randomized controlled trial of a probiotic, VSL#3, on gut transit and symptoms in diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Aliment Pharmacol Ther . 2003;17(7):895–904 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Banaszkiewicz A, Szajewska H. Ineffectiveness of Lactobacillus GG as an adjunct to lactulose for the treatment of constipation in children: a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial. J Pediatr . 2005;146(3):364–369 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Hill DJ, Roy N, Heine RG, et al. Effect of a low-allergen maternal diet on colic among breastfed infants: a randomized, controlled trial. Pediatrics . 2005;116(5). Available at: www.pediatrics.org/cgi/content/full/116/5/e709 Savino F, Pelle E, Palumeri E, Oggero R, Miniero R. Lactobacillus reuteri (American Type Culture Collection Strain 55730) versus simethicone in the treatment of infantile colic: a prospective randomized study. Pediatrics . 2007;119(1). Available at: www.pediatrics.org/cgi/content/full/119/1/e124 Reid G. Probiotic therapy and functional foods for prevention of urinary tract infections: state of the art and science. Curr Infect Dis Rep . 2000;2(6):518–522 [Medline] Tagg JR, Dierksen KP. Bacterial replacement therapy: adapting "germ warfare" to infection prevention. Trends Biotechnol . 2003;21(5):217–223 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Golledge CL, Riley TV. "Natural" therapy for infectious diseases. Med J Aust . 1996;164(2):94–95 [Web of Science] [Medline] Burns AJ, Rowland IR. Anti-carcinogenicity of probiotics and prebiotics. Curr Issues Intest Microbiol . 2000;1(1):13–24 [Medline] Osborn DA, Sinn JK. Prebiotics in infants for prevention of allergic disease and food hypersensitivity. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2007;(4):CD006474 Arslanoglu S, Moro GE, Schmitt J, Tandoi L, Rizzardi S, Boehm G. Early dietary intervention with a mixture of prebiotic oligosaccharides reduces the incidence of allergic manifestations and infections during the first two years of life. J Nutr . 2008;138(6):1091–1095 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] van der Aa LB, Heymans HS, van Aalderen WM, Sprikkelman AB. Probiotics and prebiotics in atopic dermatitis: review of the theoretical background and clinical evidence. Pediatr Allergy Immunol . 2010;21(2 pt 2):e355–e367 [CrossRef] [Medline] Brown KH, Perez F, Peerson JM, et al. Effect of dietary fiber (soy polysaccharide) on the severity, duration, and nutritional outcome of acute, watery diarrhea in children. Pediatrics . 1993;92(2):241–247 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Hanai H, Kanauchi O, Mitsuyama K, et al. Germinated barley foodstuff prolongs remission in patients with ulcerative colitis. Int J Mol Med . 2004;13(5):643–647 [Web of Science] [Medline] Kukkonen K, Savilahti E, Haahtela T, et al. Probiotics and prebiotic galacto-oligosaccharides in the prevention of allergic diseases: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J Allergy Clin Immunol . 2007;119(1):192–198 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] European Commission, Scientific Committee on Food. Report of the Scientific Committee on Food on the Revision of Essential Requirements of Infant Formulae and on Formulae . Brussels, Belgium: European Commission; 2003. Available at: http://ec.europa.eu/food/fs/sc/scf/out199_en.pdf . Accessed October 12, 2010 Arslanoglu S, Moro GE, Boehm G. Early supplementation of prebiotic oligosaccharides protects formula-fed infants against infections during the first 6 months of life. J Nutr . 2007;137(11):2420–2424 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Boehm G, Lidestri M, Casetta P, et al. Supplementation of a bovine milk formula with an oligosaccharide mixture increases counts of faecal bifidobacteria in preterm infants. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed . 2002;86(3):F178–F181 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Moro G, Minoli I, Mosca M, et al. Dosage-related bifidogenic effects of galacto- and fructooligosaccharides in formula-fed term infants. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2002;34(3):291–295 [CrossRef] [Medline] Schmelzle H, Wirth S, Skopnik H, et al. Randomized double-blind study of the nutritional efficacy and bifidogenicity of a new infant formula containing partially hydrolyzed protein, a high beta-palmitic acid level, and nondigestible oligosaccharides. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2003;36(3):343–351 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Bettler J, Euler R. An evaluation of the growth of term infants fed formula supplemented with fructo-oligosaccharides. Int J Probiotics . 2006;1:19–26 Scholtens PA, Alles MS, Bindels JG, van der Linde EG, Tolboom JJ, Knol J. Bifidogenic effects of solid weaning foods with added prebiotic oligosaccharides: a randomised controlled clinical trial. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2006;42(5):553–559 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Kunz AN, Noel JM, Fairchok MP. Two cases of Lactobacillus bacteremia during probiotic treatment of short gut syndrome. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr . 2004;38(4):457–458 [Web of Science] [Medline] Thompson C, McCarter YS, Krause PJ, Herson VC. Lactobacillus acidophilus sepsis in a neonate. J Perinatol . 2001;21(4):258–260 [CrossRef] [Medline] Broughton RA, Gruber WC, Haffar AA, Baker CJ. Neonatal meningitis due to Lactobacillus . Pediatr Infect Dis . 1983;2(5):382–384 [Web of Science] [Medline] Perapoch J, Planes AM, Querol A, et al. Fungemia with Saccharomyces cerevisiae in two newborns, only one of whom had been treated with ultra-levura. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 2000;19(6):468–470 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Salminen MK, Rautelin H, Tynkkynen S, et al. Lactobacillus bacteremia , clinical significance, and patient outcome, with special focus on probiotic L. rhamnosus GG. Clin Infect Dis . 2004;38(1):62–69 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Kalima P, Masterton RG, Roddie PH, Thomas AE. Lactobacillus rhamnosus infection in a child following bone marrow transplant. J Infect . 1996;32(2):165–167 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Soleman N, Laferl H, Kneifel W, et al. How safe is safe? A case of Lactobacillus paracasei ssp. paracasei endocarditis and discussion of the safety of lactic acid bacteria. Scand J Infect Dis . 2003;35(10):759–762 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] Salminen MK, Tynkkynen S, Rautelin H, et al. Lactobacillus bacteremia during a rapid increase in probiotic use of Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG in Finland. Clin Infect Dis . 2002;35(10):1155–1160 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Land MH, Rouster-Stevens K, Woods CR, Cannon ML, Cnota J, Shetty AK. Lactobacillus sepsis associated with probiotic therapy. Pediatrics . 2005;115(1):178–181 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] Petschow BW, Figueroa R, Harris CL, Beck LB, Ziegler E, Goldin B. Effects of feeding an infant formula containing Lactobacillus GG on the colonization of the intestine: a dose-response study in healthy infants. J Clin Gastroenterol . 2005;39(9):786–790 [CrossRef] [Web of Science] [Medline] European Food Safety Authority. Microorganisms in food and feed: qualified presumption of safety-QPS. Available at: www.efsa.europa.eu/en/events/event/colloque041213.htm . Accessed October 12, 2010 Infant Formula Act of 1980. Available at: http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d096:HR06940:@@@L&summ2=m& . Accessed October 12, 2010 American Academy of Pediatrics, Work Group on Breastfeeding. Breastfeeding and the use of human milk. Pediatrics . 1997; 100(6):1035–1039 [Abstract/ Free Full Text] PEDIATRICS (ISSN 1098-4275). ©2010 by the American Academy of Pediatrics This article has been cited by other articles: T. A. Moore, C. K. Hanson, and A. Anderson-Berry Colonization of the Gastrointestinal Tract in Neonates: A Review ICAN: Infant, Child, & Adolescent Nutrition,
		
	
        
        October 1, 2011;
	
	3(5):
	
	291 - 295. [Abstract] [PDF] F. Guthmann and C. Buhrer Routine probiotics in preterm infants? Arch. Dis. Child. Fetal Neonatal Ed.,
		
	
        
        July 1, 2011;
	
	96(4):
	
	F311 - F312. [Full Text] [PDF] This Article Abstract Full Text (PDF) Services E-mail this article to a friend Similar articles in this journal Similar articles in PubMed Download to citation manager Citing Articles Citing Articles via HighWire Citing Articles via Google Scholar Google Scholar Articles by Thomas, D. W. Search for Related Content PubMed PubMed Citation Articles by Thomas, D. W. Contact AAP | Privacy Statement | About 2010 © Copyright American Academy of Pediatrics. All rights reserved. American Academy of Pediatrics, 14