
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 03:46:33 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Set-Cookie: PHPSESSID=cf7eac2c2c1c0f8176027b001186785c; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Using A Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedy Article Bliss Directory Free Article Directory Home Free Signup Submit Article About Us Contact Us Search Site Actions Print Article BookMark Article Author Login Important Existing members will have to use the lost password facility to get new username and new password Welcome Guest! Please login or create an account. Username: Password: If you do not have an account yet, you can register ( Here ), or you may retrieve a lost user/pass 
( Here ). Navigation Home Privacy Policy Terms Of Use Submit Guidelines Learn More Top Articles Ebay UK Store Ebay US Store 10 newest articles RSS Author Highlights frank tibss wethersfield View My Bio & Articles elinore wiggins lina View My Bio & Articles Mark Bragg Palm Springs View My Bio & Articles Other Websites Using A Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedy Author : Tony McGuiagano There are some instances wherein people would be afflicted by Bacterial Vaginosis. Vaginosis occurs when a bacterial infection would occur on the vagina. The symptoms are quite unpleasant and the patient who would have such a problem would often feel a burning sensation on the affected area. Since the patient would have an inflammation on the affected area, the patient would feel soreness as well as pain. The symptoms would also occur during sex. In order to treat such a disease, the patient can either use strong drugs or would use a bacterial vaginosis home remedy. The treatment would depend on the severity of the disease and the advice of the doctor. For patients with severe cases, the patient would need to use antibiotic treatment. However, if the patient is only suffering from the mild symptoms of the disease then an anti-bacterial treatment or a bacterial vaginosis home remedy can be used. All patients should use the natural treatments first because many of the strong drugs that doctors prescribe to get rid of BV can harm your body. If the patient has an allergic reaction to some drugs, then using the home remedies would be a must. The yeast infection brought about by the disease can be cured using the natural treatments yet only if the patient would use the treatment properly. One of the most common bacterial vaginosis home remedy or treatments that patients would encounter is the use of Yogurt. Yogurt is one of the best treatments for Vaginosis because it restores the normal stasis of the body. By adjusting the PH balance of the body, the patient would be able to extinguish the bacteria from her body. Another common bacterial vaginosis home remedy is the use of boric acid in treating the disease. Boric acid prevents multiplication of the bacteria while at the same time destroys existing bacterial colonies. Boric acid is usually applied through douching. In some cases, vinegar is used for the douching since it also has the ability to maintain the PH balance in the body. Patients suffering from the disease would need to consume soy, sugar, and cheese so that their PH balance would be increased. Author's Resource Box Tony McGuigano is the owner of the Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedy website, as well as a website called Best Studio Headphones . Article Source: Articlebliss Tags:   bacterial vaginosis Author RSS Feed Category RSS Feed Rate This Article Badly Written Offensive Content Spam Bad Author Links Mis-spellings Bad Formatting Bad Author Photo Good Article! Submitted : 2011-01-05    Word Count : 870    Popularity:   21    Times Viewed: 6 Powered By: A