
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 10:55:06 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: exp_last_activity=1330944906; expires=Tue, 05-Mar-2013 10:55:06 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: exp_tracker=a%3A5%3A%7Bi%3A0%3Bs%3A76%3A%22articles%2Fit-might-be-time-to-add-a-cranberry-extract-supplement-to-your-diet%22%3Bi%3A1%3Bs%3A48%3A%22articles%2Fadvantages-of-cooking-with-red-palm-oil%22%3Bi%3A2%3Bs%3A43%3A%22articles%2Fis-syndrome-x-shortening-your-life%22%3Bi%3A3%3Bs%3A79%3A%22articles%2Fmetabolic-syndrome-a-risk-for-pregnant-women-with-mild-glucose-intoler%22%3Bi%3A4%3Bs%3A79%3A%22articles%2Flower-high-blood-glucose-levels-with-cinnamon-and-chromium-supplements%22%3B%7D; path=/
Last-Modified: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 10:55:07 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

It Might Be Time to Add a  Cranberry Extract Supplement to Your Diet! | Smart Publications Smart Publications About Us Contact Us Health A-Z Health Advisor Health Issues Products Resources Books Blog Advanced Search Home » Articles » It Might Be Time to Add a  Cranberry Extract Supplement to Your Diet! A A A It Might Be Time to Add a  Cranberry Extract Supplement to Your Diet! By Pamela Avonne Williams, M.P.H. Just one thought of cranberries and all sorts of images enter our minds. Traditionally, these berries were used by Native Americans to treat bladder and kidney conditions. Today, whether it is a sauce or a relish, cranberries are a favorite side dish during holiday dinners. These berries have also made their way to our table as juice and foods such as breakfast muffins; or they are dried and mixed with nuts for a quick snack on the run. Cranberries have also made their way into the world of science. Researchers once believed that cranberries caused urine to become acidic so that bacteria would not adhere to the walls of the bladder. They thought this was the action that kept infections at bay. Now researchers believe it is the deep red coloring of cranberries, called proanthocyanidins that does this job. A recent study published in the Journal of Medicinal Food supports this idea. Common bacteria known as Escherichia coli or E. coli cause 85% of urinary tract infections (UTIs) and 90% of acute pyelonephritis or rapid inflammation of the kidney caused by bacteria. These bacteria have hair-like structures called fimbriae. Fimbriae are thought to attach to uroepithelial cells or the cells that line the bladder. Researchers exposed these bacteria to light cranberry juice and to proanthocyanidins. They measured the energy required for the bacteria to adhere to surfaces with an atomic microscopy. Researchers noted that the ability of E. coli to adhere decreased in the presence of juice and proanthocyanidins. Researchers also noted that when either of these was no longer present, the bacteria would adhere to the cells. 1 Based on these and other studies, cranberries may benefit UTI sufferers and catheter patients, and in turn, help lighten the expenses of our health care system. Each year, more than $2 billion is spent on health care and treatment of these conditions. If we include cranberries, cranberry products and cranberry supplements in our daily diets, we may help prevent these infections. E. coli is not the only microorganism that is kept at bay with the use of cranberries. Helicobacter pylori or H. pylori, the main suspect in ulcers, may respond to cranberries in the same way as E. coli. A study published in the Molecular Nutrition Food Research Journal demonstrated that antibiotics plus cranberries can make a difference. One hundred seventy seven subjects consumed cranberry juice twice a day and prescribed antibiotics for two weeks. H. pylori disappeared among 82.5% of the study participants. The researchers also noted that the disappearance rate was higher among females who took antibiotics and cranberry juice – 95.2% than females who took antibiotics alone – 86.8%. 2 The Cranberry Institute suggests that cranberries may also be anti-aging. Animal studies are being conducted to determine the antioxidant activity of cranberries and its possible benefits on the brain. 3 Adding cranberry foods to your diet may help prevent UTIs and ulcers associated with H. pylori and other benefits that researchers need to confirm. However, eating cranberries or drinking some of these sugar-loaded juices every day may be daunting. Adding a cranberry supplement will help bridge the gap and meet our healthy goals. Editor's Note: The natural health solutions described in this article are available through many on-line retailers including those listed below. By clicking these links you help support the important alternative health research we provide. Visit www.amazon.com – a great way to find competitive deals on supplements offered by many different manufacturers. Visit www.hfn-usa.com – when commitment to quality and freshness is important, this factory direct solution is preferred by many of our readers. This article is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Always consult with a physician before embarking on a dietary supplement program. References Paola A. Pinzón-Arango, Yatao Liu, and Terri A. Camesano Role of Cranberry on Bacterial Adhesion Forces and Implications for Escherichia coli–Uroepithelial Cell Attachment. J Med Food 12 (2) 2009, 000–000 ©Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. and Korean Society of Food Science and Nutrition. Abstract ↑ Shmuely H, Yahav J, Samra Z, et al. Effect of cranberry juice on eradication of Helicobacter pylori in patients treated with antibiotics and a proton pump inhibitor. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2007 Jun;51(6):746-51. Abstract ↑ Health Research: Anti-Aging. Cranberry Institute . Location: http://www.cranberryinstitute.org/health/antiaging.htm Accessed September 20, 2009 Abstract ↑ Health Topics A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) Adrenal Fatigue Allergies Alpha Carotene Alpha Lipoic Acid Alzheimer's Disease Amino Acids Andrographis Paniculata Anti-Aging Antioxidants Anxiety Apple Extract Arginine Arginine Pyroglutamate Arthritis and Joint Health Artichoke Leaf Extract Ashwaghanda Aspergillus Astaxanthin Astragalus Subscribe to Smart Publications Health & Wellness  E-newsletter to receive e-alerts about nutritional Science. Most Popular Articles L-Arginine, the Prosexual Nutrient with Numerous Health Benefits Nattokinase: Powerful Enzyme Prevents Heart Attack and Stroke Nattokinase—The Natural Blood Thinner Protect Your Chromosome Telomeres Naturally by Encouraging Telomerase Production Oral Chelation—The Strongest Natural Treatment for Your Heart, Arteries, Memory, and More—Has Just Become Even More Effective Latest Blog Post February 15 | John Morgenthaler Bio-Identical Hormone Replacement with Jonathan V. Wright Leading to Dramatic Hearing Improvement See more blog entries » Who We Are Smart Publications™ Clarifies the Complex World of Nutrition Science. The editors and researchers at Smart Publications review and analyze thousands of scientific studies per year succinctly capturing and summarizing the results of these studies for website updates, and a monthly newsletter named Smart Publications Health & Wellness Update. More about us» P.O. Box 4667 Petaluma, CA 94955 phone 800-976-2763 Physician Disclaimer Advertise with Smart Publications Copyright Statement Sitemap Contact Smart Publications Health Topics 5-HTP 7-Keto Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) Adrenal Fatigue Allergies Alpha Carotene Alpha Lipoic Acid Alzheimer's Disease Amino Acids Andrographis Paniculata Anti-Aging Antioxidants Anxiety Apple Extract Arginine Arginine Pyroglutamate Arthritis and Joint Health Artichoke Leaf Extract Ashwaghanda Aspergillus Astaxanthin Astragalus Bacopa monniera Bamboo Extract Banaba Beauty From Inside Out Berberine Beta Carotene Bio-identical Hormone Replacement Therapy Black Cohosh Blood Pressure and Hypertension Bone Health and Osteoporosis Boswellin Brain Health and Memory Support Calcium Citrate Calcium Disodium EDTA Cancer Cardiovascular Health Carnosine Centella Asiatica Chelation Cholesterol Choline Chromium Nicotinate Cinnamon Extract Citrulline Coccinia Indica Coenzyme Q-10 Copper Cranberry Curcumin Extract Cysteine D-Ribose Daidzein Depression Devil’s Claw Detoxification Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) DHA Di-indolylmethane Diabetes and Blood Sugar Digestive Health Diindolylmethane (DIM) Dimethylaminoethanol (DMAE) Dong Quai Echinacea Eclipta Alba Egg Shell Calcium Elderberry Eleutherosides Emblica Essential Fatty Acids Energy EDTA Eurycoma Longifolia Evodia Extract Eye Health Ferulic Acid Fish Oils GABA Gamma Tocopherol Garlic Ginger Extract Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Glucosamine Glutathione Goji Berry Gotu Kola GPC Choline Grape Seed Extract Green Coffee Bean Green Tea Gymnema Sylvestre Health Commentaries Health Questionnaires Heart Attacks Heart Health Herbs Hormone Support Huperzine Immune System Support Inflammation Joint Pain Kohki Tea L-Arginine L-Citrulline L-Cysteine L-Theanine L-Tyrosine Licorice Extract Life Extension Lipoic Acid Liver Support Longevity and Anti-Aging Lutein Luteolin Lycium Berry Lycopene Lysine Magnesium Magnolia Malic Acid Mastic Gum Medium-Chain Triglycerides Melatonin Memory Menopause Menaquinone-7 Men's Health Mental Health Metabolic Syndrome Minerals Mixed Tocopherols Multi-Vitamins Myricetin N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC) N-Acetyl-carnosine Naringenin Nattokinase Nettle Notoginseng Nutrition Olive Leaf Oolong Tea Omega-3 Fatty Acids OKG Ornithine Oral Chelation Oral Health - Teeth and Gums Osteoporosis Overall Health Pain Relief Parkinson's Disease Passionflower Peony Persimmon Phenylalanine Pheromones Phosphatidylserine Phytosterol Pine Bark Policosanol Pomegranate Pregnenolone Probiotics Prostate Health Pueraria Mirifica Pumpkin Pygeum Africanum R-Lipoic Acid Red Wine Resveratrol Rhodiola Rosea Rosemary Salacia Reticulata Salvia Miltiorrhiza Schisandra Berry Selenium Sexual Health Silymarin Skin, Hair and Nails Sleep Soy Phytosterol St. John's Wort Stinging Nettle Stress Strontium Citrate Suntheanine Taurine Terminalia Chebula The Common Cold Therapy for Hormones Turmeric Root Tyrosine Uridine Urinary Tract Health Urtica Dioica Root Varicose Veins Vinpocetine Vision Health Vitamin B Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Vitamins Vitex Weight Management White Peony Winthanolides Women's Health Xylitol Yohimbe Zeaxanthin Zinc ©2012  Smart Publications, Inc. All rights reserved. Priva