Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - TCM Research Subject Index Find an Acupuncturist Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice TCM Research Subject Index AIDS Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Ears, Nose, Throat, Eyes Endocrine/Immune Gastrointestinal Musculoskeletal Pain/Nervous System Psychological Respiratory System Substance Abuse/Addictions Trauma Urinary System Veterinary medicine Women's/Men's Health HIV/AIDS AIDS and addiction: 
      a model of long-term care . Alternative therapy 
      use in HIV positive women . Anti-HIV properties of Chinese 
      medicinal herb-H.C.X. Clinical observation on ZY-1 in 
      treating 52 HIV-infected patients . Effect of 
      acupuncture on pain and subjective peripheral neuropathy in persons with 
      HIV. Holistic approach with 
      spiritual support enhance people with
        HIV/AIDS . Meta-survey of plant and 
      herb material as a treatment for HIV . Ninety anti-HIV active Chinese 
      medicinal herbs . Proposed model of a Traditional Chinese Medicine 
      treatment and
        research program for HIV/AIDS . Treatment of 
      AIDS patients with Chinese herbs QuDu ZengNing Capsule. Worlds apart?: Chinese and American 
      internists adhere to similar
        ethical standards for persons with HIV/AIDS . Cancer Acupuncture for malignant tumor patients. Cancer research . Effect of acupuncture on T-lymphocyte and its subsets from the peripheral blood of
        patients with malignant neoplasm. Insured 
        cancer patients may turn to alternative medicine. Non-invasive stimulation of the P6 (Neiguan) antiemetic acupuncture
        point in cancer chemotherapy. Norwegian 
        oncologists have more positive view of complementary medicine than 
        alternative medicine. Treatment of chemotherapy-induced leukocytopenia with
        acupuncture and moxibustion . Cardiovascular Acupuncture at otoacupoint heart for treatment of vascular hypertension. Acupuncture for cardiovascular disorders. Acupuncture in angina pectoris: does acupuncture have a
        specific effect? Acupuncture, 
      other therapies should be presented as treatment options to hypertensives. Acupuncture 
		reduces heart rate in sitting patients. The 
        cardiotonic benefits of hawthorn. Cerebral 
        blood flow effects of pain and acupuncture. Effect of acupuncture in patients with 
      angina pectoris. Effect of acupuncture-point stimulation on diastolic blood pressure in 
      hypertensive subjects: a preliminary study. Effect of auriculo-acupuncture plus needle embedding in heart point on left cardiac, humoral and endocrine function. The effect of acupuncture on the hemodynamics and tolerance for physical loads in
        patients with cardiovascular diseases. The hemodynamic and neurohumoral correlates of the changes in the status of hypertension patients under the influence of acupuncture. Improvement of blood pressure and left cardiac function in patients with 
      hypertension by auricular acupuncture. Ischemic apoplexy treated with acupuncture using the
        principle of replenishing qi and promoting blood circulation. Metrological analysis for efficacy of acupuncture on 
      Angina
        Pectoris. Moxibustion at Bai Hui (GV20) & Zu San Li (St 
							36) In the treatment of 318 cases of hypertension. Prophylactic and therapeutic effects of acupuncture on simple 
      obesity
        complicated by cardiovascular diseases. Stronger 
		needling elicits greater blood flow . Treatment using traditional acupuncture of early 
      scapulohumeral pains following heart surgery. [TOP] Dermatology Acupuncture treatment for 
		psoriasis: a retrospective case report. Chinese research in 
		dermatology, translated by Bob Flaws. Chinese 
		medicine may offer relief for skin disorders. TCM treatment of pediatric 
		eczema . Ears, Nose, Throat and Eyes Acupuncture for 
		tinnitus management. Acupuncture 
		may help eye allergies. Case Study: 
		acupuncture helps patient recover sense of smell. Dan Zhi Xiao 
        Yao Yin combined with auricular-point-pressing for treatment of optic 
        atrophy. Observation on the curative effect of acupuncture on 
		type I allergic diseases. Endocrine/Immune Acupuncture 
      for the treatment of childhood persistent allergic rhinitis. Acupuncture treatment for 
		herpes simplex infections. A clinical case report . Food allergies 
      and Chinese medicine. Herpes zoster treated by 
		acupuncture. Needling 
      increases blood flow in fibromyalgia patients. Observation on the curative 
		effect of acupuncture on type I allergic diseases. Preventive 
        and curative effects of acupuncture on the common cold. Repeated 
		acupuncture affects leukocyte circulation in healthy young males . [TOP] Gastrointestinal Autonomic disorders in the 
		clinical picture of gastric and duodenal peptic ulcer and their 
		acupuncture reflexotherapy. Case Study: 
		Chinese herb useful for severe hepatitis. Chronic 
        Fatigue Syndrome and cupping. Clinical uses of P6 acupuncture 
		antiemesis (morning sickness). Comparative studies of the 
		effectiveness of brief psychotherapy, acupuncture and papaverin therapy 
		in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. Effect of acupuncture on 
		intestinal motion and sero-enzyme activity in perioperation. The effect of acupuncture on 
		the psychosomatic status of peptic ulcer patients. Effects of acupuncture on antral 
		G cells in patients with gastric disease. The effect of 
      Chinese herbs on the expression of aquaporin. Electroacupuncture at ST-36 stimulates colonic motility and transit in 
		conscious rats . Local anesthesia blocks the 
		antiemetic action of P6 acupuncture. Stimulation 
      of P6 for preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting. Musculoskeletal 56 cases of disturbance in small 
		articulations of the lumbar vertebrae treated by puncturing the 
		effective points--a new system of acupuncture. Acupuncture and occlusal splint therapy in the 
		treatment of craniomandibular disorders. Acupuncture as 
      an adjunctive therapy in osteoarthritis of the knee. Acupuncture 
      compared with massage and “sham” laser acupuncture for treatment of chronic neck pain. Acupuncture 
		for managing myofascial pain and headache. Acupuncture 
      for shoulder pain. Acupuncture treatment of severe knee 
		osteoarthrosis. A long-term study. The acupuncture treatment of low 
		back pain: a randomized controlled study. Acupuncture-like stimulation with codetron for 
		rehabilitation of patients with chronic pain syndrome and osteoarthritis. The analgesic effect of acupuncture in chronic tennis elbow pain. Auricular 
		acupuncture for pain relief after ambulatory knee arthroscopy . Changes in somatosensory 
		evoked potentials in patients with 
		vertebrogenic pain syndromes treated by electroacupuncture. The combined use of acupuncture and antidepressants for 
		managing the spondylogenic lumbosacral pain syndrome. Complementary and alternative medical therapies for chronic low back 
        pain: what treatments are patients willing to try? Effect of acupuncture on disorders of 
		musculoskeletal system in Nigerians. Efficacy of electroacupuncture and TENS in the 
		rehabilitation of chronic low back pain patients. Enhanced bone metabolism induced by acupuncture. Electroacupuncture versus Diclofenac for osteoarthritis of the knee. Electro-stim 
      acupuncture and Fu needling for tennis elbow. Electrostimulation of auricular points is more effective for chronic neck pain than manual auricular acupuncture. Experimental study on the influence of acupuncture and 
		moxibustion on interleukin-2 in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Importance of modes of acupuncture in the treatment of 
		chronic nociceptive low back pain. Musculoskeletal clinic 
		in general practice: study of one year's referrals. Non-surgical therapy 
        for prolapse of lumbar intervertebral disc. Osteoelectroacupuncture in the management of 
                            vertebrogenic pain syndromes in the lumbar region 
                            and lower extremities . Transcutaneous electrical stimulation and 
							acupuncture: comparison of treatment for low-back 
							pain . Treating 
        chronic mechanical neck pain with acupuncture vs. placebo. Treatment of low back pain with 
		acupuncture. [TOP] Pain/Nervous System 108 cases of hemiplegia caused 
		by stroke: the relationship between CT scan results, clinical findings 
		and the effect of acupuncture treatment. Acupuncture -- a therapeutic concept in the treatment of 
      painful conditions and functional disorders. 
		Report on 971 cases. Acupuncture at 
      Neiguan (P6) increases vagal modulation. Acupuncture in chronic pain. Acupuncture in treatment of facial muscular pain. Acupuncture 
        effective for chronic headaches. Acupuncture-evoked responses of 
		subnucleus reticularis dorsalis neurons in the rat medulla. Aqueous acupuncture for 
		postoperative pain -- a matched controlled trial. Clinical observation of 50 cases of 
		hemiplegia treated by acupuncture. Clinical observations on acupuncture treatment of 
      peripheral facial paralysis aided by infra-red 
		thermography -- a preliminary report. Effectiveness of acupuncture analgesia in the treatment 
		of chronic post-traumatic pain syndromes. Effects of auricular acupuncture-like transcutaneous 
		electric nerve stimulation on pain levels following wound care in 
		patients with burns: a pilot study. The effects of 
      laser acupuncture on chronic tension headache. Hypothetical aspects of the preventive effectiveness of 
		controlled reflex and stimulation therapy (exemplified by acupuncture 
		and PuTENS) in migraine. Long-term treatment of chronic pain with acupuncture . Neuroleptanalgesia Observation on 63 cases of facial 
		paralysis treated with acupuncture. Pain treatment by means of 
		acupuncture . Practical application of meridian acupuncture treatment 
		for trigeminal neuralgia. Prolonged relief of pain by 
		brief, intense transcutaneous somatic stimulation. A psychophysical analysis of acupuncture analgesia . A serendipitous 
        treatment 
		of cerebral palsy with TCM . Spasmodic infantile 
      cerebral palsy. Treating old facial nerve 
		paralysis of 260 cases with the acupuncture treatment skill of pause 
		and regress in six parts. Treatment of post-polio 
      syndrome 
		with auricular acupuncture . Treatment of tonic headache 
		with acupuncture. Two and a half years of acupuncture for pain in 
                            Alabama . [TOP] Psychological Acupuncture 
      for depression during pregnancy. Acupuncture 
      may help anxious insomniacs relax. Clinical research on treating 
		senile dementia by combining acupuncture with acupoint-injection. Composite acupuncture treatment of 
		mental retardation in children. Comparison between electro-acupuncture with 
		chlorpromazine and chlorpromazine alone in 60 schizophrenic patients. The effect of 
      acupuncture on Anxiety in maternally separated rats. Patients 
      with 
		mental disorders often seek complementary treatment. Research 
		indicates acupuncture may be effective for insomnia. Review of 
		herbs for improving cognitive function. Respiratory A case of 
		chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) successfully treated by 
		acupuncture . Acupuncture in bronchial asthma. Acupuncture 
      pain management for patients with cystic fibrosis. Acupuncture therapy in the treatment of patients with 
		bronchial asthma. Beneficial effect of acupuncture on adult patients with 
        asthma bronchiale. Effect of laser acupuncture on the pulmonary vascular 
		resistance in patients with obstructive chronic lung diseases. Immediate antiasthmatic effect of acupuncture in 192 
		cases of bronchial
        asthma. An overview 
        of two complementary treatments for chronic asthma: acupuncture and 
        homeopathy . Research from American Medical Association's newspaper 
		regarding acupuncture's efficacy in treating asthma. [TOP] Substance Abuse/Addictions Acupuncture in 
      detox/addiction 
		treatment . An analysis of acupuncture 
      therapy 
		for the treatment of chemical dependency and its struggle for 
		legitimacy. An extract of 
      Kudzu root reduces alcohol drinking by heavy drinkers in a naturalistic 
      setting . Results of study on 
      acupuncture
		in addiction therapy in San Diego, 
		California. Trauma The effect of standardized acupuncture programs in the 
		after-care of 
      accident patients. Observations on clinical 
		therapeutic effect in treating soft tissue injuries by acupuncture . Urinary Acupressure 
      helps relieve bed-wetting. Acupuncture in the treatment of renal colic. Acupuncture in the combined treatment of pyelonephritis. The treatment of nocturnal enuresis 
		by acupuncture. The treatment of nocturnal 
		enuresis. A comparative study between desmopressin and acupuncture 
		used alone or in combination. [TOP] Veterinary Acupuncture analgesia in animals . Acupuncture for treatment of chronic back pain in the horse. Women's/Men's Health Acupoint 
      stimulation can help induce labor. Acupuncture 
		and hypnosis may be beneficial for pain during labor. Acupuncture 
      and maternity care. Acupuncture 
      for pregnant women with pelvic girdle pain. Acupuncture 
      for the treatment of climacteric syndrome . Acupuncture - 
      safe, effective for late pregnancy back pain. Acupuncture 
      shows promise for menopausal relief. Acupuncture therapy in the comprehensive treatment of
		salpingo oophoritis. Acupuncture treatment 
		for female genital sores . Auricular acupuncture in the treatment of female infertility. Acupuncture against climacteric disorders? Lower number 
		of symptoms after menopause. The clinical study on hysteromyoma 
		treated with acupuncture. The place of acupuncture in the management of psychogenic impotence. Protocol of cervical 
		maturation 
		by acupuncture . Review of complementary 
		treatments for menopause . Treatments 
        for hot flashes. [TOP] Featured Products Chinese Herbs TCM Books Home | Conditions | Syndromes | Contact Us | About Us | Subscribe | Store All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All rights 
				reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school 
				referral services provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website 
				is subject to our Terms and 
				Conditions . All logos, service marks and trademarks belong 
				to their respective owners. Legal Disclaimer Notice: The information provided on this site is 
			for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute 
			for advice from your physician or other health care professional or 
			any information contained on or in any product label or packaging. 
			You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or 
			treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any 
			medication or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare 
			professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation 
			program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you 
			might have a health problem. You should not stop taking 