</node/765>; rel="shortlink",</faq/healthy-eating/magnesium-defieciency.html>; rel="canonical"
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
X-Drupal-Cache: MISS
Content-Language: en
ETag: "1329952317-0"
X-Generator: http://allfoodsnatural.com
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Wed, 22 Feb 2012 23:11:57 +0000

Magnesium Deficiency |  Healthy Eating Skip to main content All Foods Natural cooking tips and healthy recipes with only natural condiments Search form Search Main menu Home Topics Bazaar Recipes & Techniques Newsletter Forums You are here Home » Forum » FAQ » Healthy Eating Magnesium Deficiency Submitted by All Foods Natur... on Tue, 10/19/2010 - 11:15 Forums: Healthy Eating Does the standard American diet provide enough magnesium? Which are the symptoms of magnesium deficiency? How do you prevent it? From: Lea, Jo, Elaine, Marge When you eat a balanced, healthy diet, your body is more apt to receive the vitamins and minerals it needs. The Standard American Diet (SAD), may be low in vital nutrients such as magnesium which your body needs to be healthy. Many people don't think about the specific nutrients in their food. They know what they like to eat and will choose those foods regardless of whether they lose out on the vital building blocks needed for health. Magnesium is needed to be able to metabolize glucose, aids in formation of the enzymes which free energy from the foods you eat, produces cellular energy and aids in the production of proteins. Adults require between 300 to 350 milligrams per day. Children, on the other hand, require 200 milligrams per day. Pregnant and lactating women may require different amounts; they should check with their doctor to ensure they get the right amount. Without this vital trace mineral you may experience any of the following symptoms: Fatigue Insomnia Muscle twitching Irritability Rapid heartbeat Muscle cramps Numbness Hallucinations Depletion of calcium which can lead to osteoporosis Imbalanced blood sugar levels which can lead to diabetes Increased blood pressure Too many fats in your bloodstream Depression Lack of appetite Nausea and vomiting Kidney stones Coronary heart disease Formation of blood clots Fibromyalgia Migraines Mitral valve prolapse Premature birth As you can tell, having a magnesium deficiency can lead to some serious health problems. However, it is quite easy to avoid these problems. In fact you can do much to avoid magnesium deficiency simply by adding magnesium-rich foods to your diet. Learning how to combat magnesium deficiency with food can greatly affect how you feel and how well you are. Read more: all about magnesium Log in or register to post comments Guide Index Archive Search Popular Tips Recipes Bazaar About 