
The Buzz Newsletter Iowa 
            Honey Producers Association The 
                Buzz Newsletter January 
                2007 Page 7 The Buzz Picture 
                      Contest January This picture was sent to us by Gordon Powell. This swarm 
                      was looking for a home in late September in the Woodburn, 
                      IA area. Honeybees sure seem to like those shallow pools 
                      of water like this convenient bird bath. Thanks Gordon! 
                      This is the picture of the month for January. Remember that “The Buzz” is offering $10 for 
                      one picture each month. I know some of you will have good 
                      photo opportunities during the summer months. Entertain 
                      your fellow beekeepers and make some money at the same time. 
                      This offer does not pertain to pictures printed with articles. 
                      Submit you photo via e-mail to the Buzz at thebuzz@abuzzaboutbees.com Apitherapy News ... Researchers Taste Success With Honey Cure August 8, 2006 Jennifer Harper The Washington Times It could be sweet news, indeed. German medical 
                researchers have announced that honey -- yes, the breakfast favorite 
                -- is more effective in healing problem wounds, ulcers and skin 
                conditions than standard antibiotics. "In hospitals today we are faced with germs 
                which are resistant to almost all the current antibiotics," 
                said Dr. Arne Simon, an oncologist with the Children's Hospital 
                at the University of Bonn. "As a result, the medical use 
                of honey is becoming attractive again for the treatment of wounds." Dr. Simon is the first to acknowledge that honey 
                is a "millennia old" panacea for all sorts of ills, 
                from baldness to intestinal distress. But the emergence of multi-drug 
                resistant bacteria in the last decade has generated new interest 
                in an old remedy. With cooperation from specialists in a dozen 
                German hospitals, Dr. Simon is planning a large-scale study on 
                honey's curative effects. He has already charted the success of 
                traditional honey poultices on troublesome surgical wounds and 
                skin conditions. "Even chronic wounds infected with multi-drug 
                resistant bacteria often healed within a few weeks," Dr. 
                Simon noted, adding that the honey method was particularly helpful 
                for young patients with weakened immune systems -- deeming it 
                "astonishing." Honey also made dressings easier to change 
                and even reduced distressing smells associated with some skin 
                conditions. Ancient Egyptians, soldiers in the field and 
                assorted healers who have relied on honey over time may not have 
                understood the science behind it all. The bees -- who typically 
                visit 2 million flowers to produce a pound of honey -- may not 
                know it either. It's the bees themselves who are the heroes, however. 
                During the honey-making process, they add an enzyme called glucose-oxidase, 
                ultimately generating a mild form of hydrogen peroxide -- an antibacterial 
                agent. In the last five years, researchers in Australia, 
                New Zealand, Europe and the U.S. have found that honey is effective 
                against about 60 strains of bacteria -- including staphylococcus 
                and heliobacter pylori, which causes stomach ulcers. Honey is 
                also thought to reduce inflammation and provide a source of cancer-fighting 
                antioxidants. None of this has escaped the commercial sector. 
                "Medicalgrade honey" is now a reality. MediHoney -- sterile, prepackaged applications 
                of honey -- is now manufactured by Australia's Capilano Honey 
                to treat stubborn surgical wounds, oral infections and skin conditions. 
                New Zealand's Comvita annually sells $30 million worth of wound 
                dressings that combine "medical-grade active manuka honey" 
                -- made from a local plant -- and seaweed fibers. British-based Medlock Medical and Advancis Medical 
                also offer sterile honey dressings and creams, noting the only 
                potential caution for patients is "known allergy to bee venom." Will Americans have access? Perhaps. According 
                to a recent report from CNN, MediHoney has applied for approval 
                from the Food and Drug Administration and expects an answer late 
                this year -- and a potential gateway into our annual $2.8 billion 
                "wound care market." IHPA Home Page | The Buzz Newslet