
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2012 03:50:12 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.41 (Unix) PHP/5.2.5 mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_auth_passthrough/1.8 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_ssl/2.8.30 OpenSSL/0.9.7a
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.5
X-Pingback: http://health.duvv.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Benefits of Fish Oil for Fitness and Health - Health Tips and Information News Feed Home About Cancer Children Detox General Health Insurance Healthy Aging Herbs Nutrition Vitamins Browse > Home / General / Benefits of Fish Oil for Fitness and Health Benefits of Fish Oil for Fitness and Health July 10, 2009 Leave a comment When the words oils and fats are mentioned, health-conscious individuals tend to run for cover. What they fail to realize is that there are good fats and bad fats. Complete avoidance of intake of oils and fats would actually be detrimental  rather than beneficial  to their health. The Truth about Fish Oil Essential fatty acids must always be part of our daily diet  without them, we take one step closer to our deaths. Essential fatty acids are divided into two families: omega-6 EFAs and omega-3 EFAS. Although there are only very slight differences to distinguish the two groups of essential fatty acids from each other, studies have revealed that too much intake of omega-6 EFAs can lead to inflammation, blood clotting and tumor growth. The good news, however, is that the opposite is true for omega-3 EFAs. Omega-6 EFAs can be found in vegetable oils while omega-3 EFAs can be found in fish oils among other foods. Omega-6 vs. Omega-3 Physicians and scientists are of the same opinion that the cause behind increasing cases of heart disease, hypertension or high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes, premature aging and certain kinds of cancer is none other than an imbalanced intake of omega-3 and omega-6 EFAs. As mentioned earlier on, omega-6 EFAs can be found in vegetable oils. This includes but is not limited to corn oil and soy oil, both of which contains high amounts of linoleic acid. Omega-3 EFAs on the other hand can be found also in marine plankton and walnut and flaxseed oils. It should be significant to take note that fatty fish and fish oils contain eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), fatty acids that have been observed to provide many benefits to the human body. In the early 1970s, a study on Greenland Eskimos have revealed that one of the major reasons why they rarely suffer from heart diseases is because of their high-fat diet (mainly composed of fish). The two essential fatty acids, EPA and DHA, are also helpful in preventing atherosclerosis, heart attacks, depression and various forms of cancer. Fish oil supplemented food have also proven to be useful in treating illnesses like rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, Raynauds disease and ulcerative colitis. Other Benefits of Fish Oil There are a lot more illnesses and situations in which intake of fish oil has proven to be significantly beneficial. Making the Heart Healthier The heart is inarguably one of the most important parts of our body and having an unhealthy heart means having to suffer a rather limited lifespan. Naturally, its in our best interests to keep our hearts happy and healthy and one way of doing that is eating food that contains fish oil. In Athens, Greece, for instance, a study was made to show if there was a direct relationship between high fish diet and inflammation of blood vessels. The results revealed that those who ate more fish than the others had a lower level of C-reactive protein and interleukin-6, factors that are commonly used to measure likelihood of blood vessel inflammation. These benefits remained even when the various risks associated with high fish diet were taken into account. Fish to Become Thin In Perth, Australia, a study had revealed that fish consumption can be used against hypertension and obesity. Researchers of the UWA (University of Western Australia) have discovered that a weight-loss diet which includes a regular amount of fish consumption can be quite effective in reducing blood pressure and improving glucose tolerance. Fish Oil to Combat Asthma People suffering from respiratory problems like asthma tend to be perceived as unfit and unhealthy. They should now be pleased to learn that certain studies have revealed the benefits of fish oil for asthma-burdened-individuals. Statistics show that approximately 20 to 25% of children today suffer one form of asthma or another at a certain point in their lives. And certain evidence reveals a regular diet of food with high linoleic acid content as the reason behind it. Researchers of UW (University of Wyoming) conducted a study by subjecting a number of children to a high-fish diet while others continued with their regular diet. Results revealed that the participants who ate more fish were less prone to asthma attacks and were able to breathe more easily as well. Consult Your Nutritionist Now Nothing is good when consumed or used excessively but complete avoidance of a particular food type is equally harmful as well. Ask your nutritionist for the right amount of fish intake for your age and health status. Related: Eating For A Healthy Heart Bad cholesterol or a bad diet is something we all
experience at some point in time.  It’s impossible
to eat healthy our whole lives, even though we may
try hard to do it.  Eating healthy for your heart
is something everyone should try to do, especially
when it comes to restoring health and reducing
heart attacks.
Your heart and food
We Balancing Ph-ion and Detox to Cleanse the Body Grow, glow, and go. These are three food types which a person should eat every day in certain amounts in order to eat a healthy and nutritious diet. This is the subject matter in one of the many lessons in science in the elementary grade which increases the awareness of children to eating a healthy Vitamin E and Healthy Aging Did you know that at least 200 UI daily of vitamin E can help fight various diseases? Studies found that alpha tocopherol, or Vitamin E has proven to fight particular diseases. Studies show that Vitamin E may help with oxygen preserving and potentially offers cure for various disease. Taking 200 IU daily may trim down Benefits of Whey Protein In recent years, the subject of whey protein has come up often in health discussions. Know what whey protein is, its possible benefits and side effects and more as you read on.
What is Whey Protein
Whey protein is actually a term used to describe a group of globular proteins that can be separated from whey. When Cooking with Oils Everyone knows the foods to eat that improve health,
although how we cook the food can be just as important.
With there being so many oils and butter products
claiming to be the best, it can be quite difficult
to know which ones to use and which ones to avoid.
1.  Canola oil
Canola oil is a popular oil, with Comments Comments are closed. Welcome to Duvv Health Recent Posts NAILS IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. MENTAL DISTURBANCES CAUSED BY ALCOHOL. MEDICAL TESTIMONY ON ALCOHOL. Importance of Warming Up Before Exercise How to Read Food Labels Categories Cancer Children Detox General Health Insurance Healthy Aging Herbs Nutrition Vitamins Other Blogs Health Tips and Information SB Test Duvv.com Life Stream Stimulus Tax Check 2009 Mortgages and Loans Auto Insurance Web Hosting Magic List Bot Review Reduce High Blood Pressure Micro Niche Finder Duvv.com - Free Blogs Google Shadow Forex Invasion System The Mini Site Formula The Affiliate Black Book DWI Lawyers and Legal Info Insurance Duvv Demonstration Blog Health Tips an