
Health Conditions | caregiver-connect.ca - Canadian Caregiver Information caregiver-connect.ca Canada’s trusted source for caregiver information VON Canada | Larger Font | Skip to Content Home Caring by Health Condition Managing Chronic Conditions ABI - Aquired Brain Injury ALS - Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia Arthritis and Other Bone Diseases ASD - Autism Spectrum Disorder Cancer CFS - Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Chronic Pain Diabetes FASD - Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder FM - Fibromyalgia Heart and Stroke High Blood Pressure Huntington Disease Kidney Disease Lung (Respiratory) Diseases Mental Health Disorders MS - Multiple Sclerosis Palliative (End-of-Life) Care Parkinson's Disease Persons with Disabilities Caregiver Tools Caregiver Resources Being a Caregiver Financial Resources Finding Help and Support Housing and Care Options Legal Resources Practical Caregiver Skills Special Perspectives Taking Care of You Contact Us About Us Home > Health Conditions Health Conditions Managing Chronic Conditions ABI - Aquired Brain Injury ALS - Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia Arthritis and Other Bone Diseases ASD - Autism Spectrum Disorder Cancer CFS - Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Chronic Pain Diabetes FASD - Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder FM - Fibromyalgia Heart and Stroke High Blood Pressure Huntington Disease Kidney Disease Lung (Respiratory) Diseases Mental Health Disorders MS - Multiple Sclerosis Palliative (End-of-Life) Care Parkinson's Disease Persons with Disabilities Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia Alzheimer's Disease is a progressive, degenerative disease that affects all aspects of the nervous system. It causes thinking and memory to become seriously impaired. It is the most common form of dementia. Dementia is a syndrome consisting of a number of symptoms that include loss of memory, judgment and reasoning, and changes in mood, behaviour and communication abilities. Related diseases include: Alzheimer's, Vascular Dementia, Frontotemporal Dementia, Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease and Lewy body Dementia. From Alzheimer Society of Canada , 2009 Information for Caregivers: Alzheimer Care Introduction , 2010, Alzheimer Society of Canada Caregiver Support , 2008, Alzheimer's Society of Canada Caring for Someone with Alzheimer's Disease? Take Care of Yourself Too ! 2008, Alzheimer's Society of Canada Cognitive Impairment in the Elderly: A Guide for People with Dementia and Their Caregivers , 2007, Alzheimer Society of Canada Also available in French, Vietnamese, Chinese, Korean, Persian and Punjabi from http://www.health.gov.bc.ca/pharmacare/adti/caregiver/cognitive.html The Comfort of Home for Alzheimer's Disease: A Guide for Caregivers , 2007, Meyer, Mittelman & Epstein, 360 pp.  ISBN 13: 978-0-9787903-0-1 Living Well with Dementia - For Caregivers , 2010, Alzheimer Society of B.C. Intern’l CAN AB BC MB NB NL NT NS NU ON PE QC SK YT International Association for Frontotemporal Dementias (AFTD) Care Crossroads Lewy Body Dementia Association, Inc. Pick's Disease Support Group Canada-wide Association for Frontotemporal Dementias (AFTD) Creutzfedlt-Jakob Disease The Dementia Journey , 2010, Alzheimer Society of B.C. Dementia and how it is diagnosed , Audrey Miller, Solutions, Summer 2009 Forgetful Not Forgotten , Connecting and Supporting Canada's Alzheimer's Caregivers, 2009, Alzheimer Society of Ontario The many forms of dementia , 2011, CBC Dementias , 2005, Alzheimer Society of Canada Safely Home Registry – for those who wander and their caregivers VON Sites Who Offer Alzheimer Day Programs VON Sites That Offer In-Home Adult Respite Alberta Alzheimer Society of Alberta and Northwest Territories British Columbia Alzheimer Society of B.C. Resource Centres Caring for Someone with Dementia , 2010, Alzheimer Society of B.C. Handbook for Caregivers , 2005, Fraser Health Take Care: A Handbook for Family Caregivers , 2010, Vancouver Coastal Health Manitoba Alzheimer Society Manitoba Caregiving New Brunswick Société Alzheimer Society New Brunswick Newfoundland and Labrador Société Alzheimer Society Newfoundland and Labrador NorthWest Territories Alzheimer Society of Alberta and Northwest Territories Nova Scotia Alzheimer Society of Nova Scotia Nunavut Alzheimer Society - Please contact the provincial Alzheimer Society office closest to where you live. Ontario Alzheimer Knowledge Exchange Alzheimer Society Ontario Prince Edward Island Alzheimer Prince Edward Island Quebec La Maladie de Creutzfeldt-Jakob , 2000 Société Alzheimer Society, Fédérations Québécoise des sociétés Alzheimer/The Québec Fédération of Alzheimer Sociétés Saskatchewan Alzheimer Society Saskatchewan Yukon Alzheimer Society - Please contact the provincial Alzheimer Society office closest to where you live. Yukon Health and Social Services, Community Day Program - The Community Day Program provides services and support to adults with cognitive or physical impairments and to their caregivers ShareThis Link to us! Donate Now Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright © 2009 VON Canada. All Rights   