Connection: close

Back Strengthening Exercises Spine-Health Twitter For Spine Professionals RSS Feed Back Pain Newsletter Facebook Login / Register More Search Tools: Doctors Videos Home Conditions Arthritis Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Disc Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Sciatica Spinal Stenosis Spine Anatomy All Conditions Treatment Alternative Care Back Surgery Chiropractic Injections Pain Management Pain Medication Physical Therapy All Treatments Wellness Ergonomics Exercise Massage Therapy Nutrition, Diet, Weight Loss Sleep Stop Smoking Yoga, Pilates, Tai Chi All Wellness Pain Forums Back/Neck Surgery Forums Chronic Pain Forums Neck Pain Forums All Pain Forums Find a Doctor Find a Chiropractor Find a Physician Find a Spine Center Resources Doctor Advice Pain Blog For Physicians Pain Glossary Product Marketplace Education Centers Pain News Clinical Trials All Clinical Trials Health Videos Sciatica Videos Surgery Videos Herniated Disc Videos Stenosis Videos Back Exercise Videos All Videos Exercise Home » Wellness » Exercise Back Strengthening Exercises A A A By: Peter F. Ullrich, Jr., MD print Just like reinforced steel can bear more weight than sheet aluminum, a strong, well-conditioned back can withstand more stress, and protect the spine better, than a back that has not been conditioned through exercise. Conditioning through flexibility and strengthening back exercises not only helps the back avoid injury, or minimize the severity of injury if the spine is traumatized, it also can help relieve the pain of many back conditions. Many back exercises can help strengthen the spinal column and the supporting muscles, ligaments and tendons. Most of these back exercises focus not only on the back, but also the abdominal (stomach) muscles and gluteus (buttocks) and hip muscles. Taken together, these strong ‘core’ muscles can provide back pain relief because they provide strong support for the spine, keeping it in alignment and facilitating movements that extend or twist the spine. Two of the most well-known back strengthening exercises are: McKenzie exercises and Dynamic Lumbar Stabilization. These back exercises are generally first learned by working with a physical therapist who can demonstrate the exercises and correct a patient’s form to ensure strengthening and/or back pain relief is achieved. Although McKenzie exercises and dynamic lumbar stabilization exercises tend to be used for specific conditions, the two forms of physical therapy exercise may also be combined when appropriate. Article continues below McKenzie Exercises These back exercises are named after a physical therapist in New Zealand who found that extending the spine through exercise could reduce pain generated from a compromised disc space. Theoretically, extension exercises may also help reduce the herniation of the disc itself and reduce pressure on a nerve root. There is a wide range of McKenzie exercises, some of which are done standing up while others are performed lying down. All of these upper and lower back exercises use core muscle contraction and, usually, arm motions to stabilize the trunk and extend the spine. In This Article: Exercise and Back Pain Stretching for Back Pain Relief Specific Hamstring Stretches for Back Pain Relief Back Strengthening Exercises Low-Impact Aerobic Exercise For patients who are suffering from leg pain due to a disc herniation (a radiculopathy ), extending the spine with McKenzie back exercises may also help reduce the leg pain by "centralizing" the pain (moving the pain from the leg to the back). For most patients, back pain is usually more tolerable than leg pain, and if a patient is able to centralize the pain, they may be able to continue with non-surgical treatment (such as exercise) and avoid a surgical discectomy. When the pain is acute, the exercises should be done frequently (every one to two hours). To be effective, patients should try to avoid flexing the spine (bending forward) during exercising as this undercuts the strengthening motion. McKenzie exercises may also be helpful for those individuals who have back pain due to degenerative disc disease . While sitting or flexing forward can accentuate low back pain for patients with degenerative disc disease, extending the spine can serve to relieve the pressure on the disc. Note that the opposite is true in elderly patients who have facet osteoarthritis and/or lumbar stenosis (extending the spine jams the facet joints on the back and increases pressure across the joints, so these patients will typically feel better sitting, and have more pain with extension). Dynamic Lumbar Stabilization Exercises With this back exercise technique, the physical therapist first tries to find the patient’s "neutral" spine, or the position that allows the patient to feel most comfortable. The back muscles are then exercised to teach the spine how to stay in this position. This back exercise technique relies on proprioception, or the awareness of where one’s joints are positioned. Performed on an ongoing basis, these back exercises provide pain relief and help keep the back strong and well positioned. Lumbar stabilization back exercises may also be done in conjunction with McKenzie exercises. The McKenzie exercises serve to reduce back pain, and the lumbar stabilization exercises help strengthen the back. Stabilization back exercises can be rather rigorous and therefore may not be well tolerated by all patients. It may be advisable for elderly patients or patients in significant pain to use other less strenuous means of physical therapy and back exercise to strengthen the back. The above two back exercise programs are commonly prescribed to treat low back pain and leg pain, but many other forms of exercise can also provide pain relief and help with rehabilitation. The important aspect is that the exercise includes controlled, progressive strengthening exercises. Alternative forms of strengthening exercise that can be gentle on the back include Pilates, yoga and tai chi. There are several forms of these disciplines, and they are best learned working with a certified trainer or practitioner. Next Page: Low-Impact Aerobic Exercise Pages: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 More Resources in the Exercise Center Article written by: Peter F. Ullrich, Jr., MD Print Share | Related Articles What is the McKenzie Method for Back Pain and Neck Pain? McKenzie Therapy for Mechanical Low Back Pain Lumbar Stabilization as Exercises for Lower Back Pain The McKenzie Method for Neck and Back Problems Back Exercises and Abdominal Exercise Recommendations Exercise and Back Pain Stretching for Back Pain Relief Sciatica Exercises for Sciatica Pain Relief Neck Exercises for Neck Pain Exercise Topics Exercise/Fitness Center Physical Therapy Center Nutrition/Diet/Weight Loss Tai Chi/Yoga/Pilates Exercise and Back Pain Rehabilitation Sciatica Exercises Strengthening Exercises Stretching Exercises Back Exercise Videos Find a Back Doctor All Pain Topics A - Z Exercise/Rehab Forums advertisement Connect with Us Facebook Twitter RSS Feed eNewsletter Chat Forums advertisement Exercise Featured Videos Sciatica Exercises for Degenerative Disc Disease Video Demonstration of exercises for sciatica from DDD Watch Video Hamstring Exercises for Low Back Pain Relief Video Demonstration of hamstring stretches for back pain Watch Video Sciatica Exercises for Piriformis Syndrome Video Demonstration of exercises for piriformis syndrome Watch Video Sciatica Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Video Demonstration of exercises for spinal stenosis Watch Video All Specialists Physician (MD or DO) Chiropractor (DC) Other Health Professional » Find a Spine Center Back Pain Newsletter Sign Up Receive Spine-health's FREE weekly back pain eNewsletter YES - send me special offers from health-friendly sponsors at Spine-health advertisement Spine Clinical Trials Currently Recruiting The EVIDENCE Trial: For Failed Back Surgery Syndrome NeoFuse Trial: Stem Cell Therapy For Cervical Degenerative Disc Disease Biostat System Non-surgical Treatment of Chronic Low Back Pain Most Popular Spine-Health Articles What You Need to Know About Sciatica What is a Herniated Disc? What is Degenerative Disc Disease? Leg Pain and Numbness Lower Back Pain Symptoms Upper Back Pain Chiropractic Treatments Popular Health Centers Back Pain Back Surgery Chiropractic Degenerative Disc Disease Exercise Herniated Disc Lower Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Sciatica Spinal Stenosis Other Back Conditions A-Z Back Pain and Neck Pain Resources Back Pain Videos Find a Back Doctor Find a Spine Center Pain Forums Spine Health Glossary For Spine Professionals / Become a Doctor Member About Spine-health About Us Awards Contact Us Privacy Policy Advertising / Sponsor Policy Site Map Spine-Health publishes original articles written for patients by over 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board . This trusted, independent site is supported by hundreds of physician members and visited by millions of patients and their physicians. The information in Spine-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding back pain and nec