
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2012 17:41:44 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Mon, 19 Mar 2012 17:41:44 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Dementia skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Dementia Follow the links below to find information on dementia and support services for sufferers, their carers and families. Reviewed January 2012 Printer friendly page Related Health Insite Topics Alzheimer's Disease HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information on Alzheimer´s Disease. Carers of People with Dementia HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information for and about carers of people with dementia. Dementia Medications HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information about medications that are used to treat people with dementia. Dementia Respite Care HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information about respite care for people with dementia and their carers. Dementia Support HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information on support services for people affected by dementia. Living with Dementia HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information about coping with dementia on a daily basis. Personal Stories about Dementia HealthInsite Topic Page Links to personal stories about living with dementia, including Alzheimer´s Disease. Sundown Syndrome HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information about Sundown Syndrome or sundowning. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Dementia HealthInsite Topic Page Links to information on the symptoms and diagnosis of dementia. Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Dementia HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of dementia treatments. 19 Resources Found Results 1 to 19 displayed. Title: Dementia Publisher: Australian Indigenous HealthInfoNet Description: This web resource is a 'one-stop info-shop' for people interested in addressing dementia within Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. Date: Mar 2012 Title: High blood pressure is a risk factor for dementia Publisher: Multicultural Health Communication Service Description: DL brochure providing information on how to maintain a healthy blood pressure to reduce the risk of dementia Date: Apr 2011 Title: Dementia - risk reduction Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Dementia cannot yet be prevented or cured, but the choices you make in midlife can help to keep your brain healthy as you age. Studies of large groups of people show that those who adopt a 'brain healthy' lifestyle have a reduced risk of dementia in later life. Date: Mar 2011 Title: Dementia - tips for parents and grandparents Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Young people in the family may be affected when a loved one has dementia. Parents and grandparents may need help to answer questions that a child or children may have about dementia. Date: Mar 2011 Title: Dementia - frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism-17 Publisher: Better Health Channel Description: Frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism-17 (FTDP-17) is a rare type of progressively worsening dementia that targets the frontal and temporal regions of the brain. It is usually caused by a genetic alteration (mutation). Symptoms may include personality changes with loss of social skills, diminished cognitive capacity and Parkinsonism. Date: Jan 2011 Title: Memory changes - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: One of the main symptoms of dementia is memory loss, which may affect the ability to work or do familiar tasks. Find out the difference between normal forgetfulness and dementia. Date: Jan 2011 Title: Fronto temporal lobar degeneration - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: What are the differences between Pick's disease and fronto temporal lobar degeneration or dementia? Find out about symptoms, prognosis and treatment. Date: Jan 2011 Title: Dementia and dental care - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Everyone with dementia needs an individualised preventive approach to dental care that should begin as soon as dementia is diagnosed. Date: Jan 2011 Title: Dementia risk factors - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Some of the risk factors associated with dementia can be managed through lifestyle changes or appropriate medical treatments. Date: Jan 2011 Title: People with dementia Publisher: CareSearch Description: Dementia is a progressive condition, causing deterioration in people's abilities. Patients in the later stages of dementia may become seriously ill. They may no longer be able to communicate their wishes. If they did not make any advance plans, a family member may be asked about different treatment options. Date: Jul 2010 Title: Lewy body dementia LBD Publisher: Virtual Medical Centre.com Description: Information on the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of Lewy body dementia (LBD), written by professional medical specialists. Date: Mar 2010 Title: Vascular dementia (multi-infarct dementia) Publisher: Virtual Medical Centre.com Description: Information on the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of vascular dementia written by professional health specialists. Date: Feb 2010 Title: Frontotemporal dementia (Pick's disease) Publisher: Virtual Medical Centre.com Description: Frontotemporal dementia (Pick's disease) is a form of dementia characterised by gradually worsening decline of mental abilities. The disease often affects a person's ability to use and understand spoken and written language. provides information on the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of the disease. Date: Feb 2010 Title: Fact sheet 25 - Depression and dementia Publisher: beyondblue Description: This fact sheet explains the relationship between depression and dementia. Includes information on treatments for depression and tips for reducing the the risk of depression in dementia. Date: Oct 2010 Title: Dementia and old age - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Dementia is a problem associated with old age and quality social contact seems to help prevent it. Date: Dec 2007 Title: Brain ageing and dementia - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: Discover how the brain changes as we age and learn about the differences among normal ageing, mild cognitive impairment and dementia. Date: Mar 2007 Title: Dementia: helping children cope - myDr.com.au Publisher: myDr Description: The most important way to help children or grandchildren cope with a loved one having dementia is to talk openly and be willing to listen. Date: Jul 2005 Title: The oral health of older adults with dementia Publisher: Australian Institute of Health and Welfare Description: This publication reports on an investigation of the oral health status of community-dwelling older dentate adults in Adelaide, South Australia with and without dementia. Older adults with dementia had higher levels of dental disease and their oral health deteriorated faster over a one-year follow-up period compared to those without dementia. Date: Jan 2005 Title: The impact of dementia on the health and aged care systems Publisher: Australian Institute of Health and Welfare Description: This report examines the prevalence of dementia in the Australian population, the current patterns of service use by people with dementia and the costs associated with this use. Date: Jun 2004 Results 1 to 19 displayed. Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Ageing Brain Diseases Memory Disorders Mental Health of Older People © 2012 National Health Call Cen