
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 16:25:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Adjustable Gastric Banding - Central Valley Bariatrics Home | Compare Procedures | BMI Calculator | Patient Workbook | Supplements | Locations / Contact For more information email or call (818) 812-7222 or (661) 414-9091 or (800) 816-6647 Home About Us Ara Keshishian MD Research & Publications Testimonials In The News Obesity Causes of Obesity NIH Guidelines Surgical 
            Options Surgical Procedures Duodenal Switch Sleeve Gastrectomy Revisional Weight Loss Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding Gastric Bypass - RNY Reconstructive Surgery Compare Procedures Our Program First Consult Pre-Operative Work-Up Nutritional & Psychological Evaluations Patient Workbook Group Meetings Supplements Contact Us Expand Menus / Collapse Menus FAQ Newsletters Group Meetings Financing Options Streaming Media (Videos) Payment Portal Sign up to our newsletter! Adjustable Gastric Banding LAP-BAND ® Adjustable Gastric Banding System The LAP-BAND ® Adjustable Gastric Banding System is a simple yet advanced gastric banding system that helps you gradually lose and control your weight by reducing the amount of food that your stomach can hold at one time. The name "LAP-BAND" comes from the minimally invasive surgical technique used (laparoscopy) and the silicone gastric band placed around the top of the upper part of your stomach. The LAP-BAND ® System works by helping you control your food intake and supporting long term, sustainable weight loss. For dietary recommendation and living after LAP-BAND ® click here . The LAP-BAND AP ® System The latest generation of the LAP-BAND ® System - the LAP-BAND AP ® System - is the most advanced adjustable gastric banding system approved by the FDA and was built on a proven heritage of effective laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding technology. The LAP-BAND AP ® System uses patented Omniform™ technology—soft, precurved, individual sections—and introduces a 360 degree inflation area. Omniform ™ technology is designed to minimize the potential for leaks due to unwanted creases or folds (crease-fold failure). At the same time, the 360 degree inflation area evenly distributes pressure for complete coverage of stomach anatomy. The LAP-BAND AP® System also has the highest available fill volume so your surgeon has the flexibility to offer more precise adjustments. The LAP-BAND AP ® System was designed to extend the proven performance of the LAP-BAND ® System. The LAP-BAND ® System Advantages at a Glance Minimally Invasive Surgery Minimally invasive surgical approach No intestinal re-routing, cutting or stapling of the stomach wall or bowel as with gastric bypass Can be performed on an out-patient basis Small incisions and minimal scarring Reduced post-surgical pain, shorter hospital stay and recovery time Earlier return to work/normal activities Fewer Risks and Side Effects Lower short-term mortality rate than gastric bypass Low risk of post-surgical nutritional deficiencies associated with gastric bypass No "dumping syndrome" (food passes through the system too fast resulting in severe cramping/digestive disruption) related to dietary intake restrictions Adjustable Allows for personalized steady, healthy rate of weight loss No additional surgery for adjustments Supports pregnancy by allowing for increased nutritional needs Surgical weight loss option specifically designed for long term weight maintenance Effective Long Term Weight Loss More than 350,000 LAP-BAND® System devices distributed worldwide #1 selling adjustable gastric band for weight loss worldwide Over ten years of medical studies and academic publications follow-up The long term weight loss is equal to that of gastric bypass but less than that of the Duodenal switch operaiton Reversible While it is intended to be a long-term treatment, the LAP-BAND® System can be removed at any time, in some cases laparoscopically Stomach and other anatomy typically return to their original state/functions The LAP-BAND ® Adjustable Gastric Banding System in Detail Weight loss surgery is a big and life-changing step - you want to be sure that you're making the best decision possible, using the most reliable and flexible system available. There is only one adjustable and reversible weight loss surgery available in the United States and that is gastric banding. The LAP-BAND ® System is the first and most advanced gastric banding system approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and over 350,000 devices have been distributed worldwide. The LAP-BAND ® System is an adjustable gastric band that restricts the amount of food that your stomach can hold at one time, while allowing you to feel satisfied, not hungry. It is a personal weight loss tool that can help you lose excess pounds and improve weight-related health issues. Without that excess weight, you may feel better, look better and be able to do more. Feeling Full Sooner and Longer The LAP-BAND ® System uses a silicone ring filled with saline on its inner hollow surface, which is placed around the upper part of your stomach. This creates a new, smaller stomach pouch that can hold only a small amount of food, so the food storage area in the stomach is reduced. By creating a new smaller pouch and controlling the passage of food between the new pouch and the rest of your stomach, the LAP-BAND ® System actually makes you feel fuller sooner, and your satisfaction lasts longer than before. Adjusting the LAP-BAND ® System to Your Needs The LAP-BAND ® System is connected to an access port, which is fixed beneath the skin of your abdomen. The access port allows your surgeon to adjust the LAP-BAND ® System to your weight loss needs and progress by adding or subtracting saline, or salt water, inside the inner balloon. This is an advantage to the LAP-BAND ® System, and is a normal part of your medical follow-up. Although your weight loss should be gradual, if it is too slow, the doctor can inflate the LAP-BAND ® System with additional saline solution, tightening the opening between the new smaller upper part of your stomach and the larger lower portion. On the other hand, if you require the LAP-BAND ® System loosened, your doctor can remove some saline, making the opening larger. For example, if you were to become pregnant, and your nutritional needs increased, the larger pouch would support your new diet. The latest generation LAP-BAND AP ® System has the highest available fill volume for more flexibility and more precise adjustments. Site Map | Disclaimer | Contact | HIPAA Compliance P