
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Microsoft-IIS/5.0
Date: Wed, 29 Feb 2012 09:47:01 GMT
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Pertussis -- eCureMe.com eCureMe Life : Your Healthy Living. Click Here! Welcome, eCureMe.com Select a Health Topic ADD/ADHD Allergy Alternative Medicine Arthritis Asthma Beyond Dieting Body Aches and Pains Breast Cancer Cancer Awareness Cardio Health Children's Health Colon Cancer Contraception COPD/Emphysema Dental Health Diabetes Elder Care Emergency Room Epilepsy Erectile Dysfunction Eye Care Fertility Fitness Gastrointestinal Health Glands and Hormones Gynecologic Health Hair Loss Headache Healthcare Today Healthy Aging HIV and AIDS Infectious Diseases Kidney Health Leukemia Liver Health Lung Cancer Lymphoma Multiple Sclerosis Men's Health Mental Health Nutrition Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Pregnancy & Childbirth Sexual Health Skin Health Sleep Disorders Special Events Stroke Surgeries and Procedures Teen Health Thyroid Health Urologic Health Vascular Disease Women's Health Workplace Health February 29, 2012 eCureMe Life Healthy Living Shop Medical Supplies Calorie Count Self-Diagnosis Physician Search Message Board E-mail Doctor E-mail Veterinarian Self-Diagnosis Health-O-Matic Meter Calorie Count Natural Medicine Vitamins & Minerals Alternative Living My Health Chart Diseases & Treatments Atlas of Diseases Sexually Transmitted Diseases Drug Information Illegal Drugs Lab & Diagnostic Tests Internal Medicine Women’s Health Pediatrics Eye Disorders Skin Disorders Headache Mental Health Radiology Neurology Allergy Resource Links Physician Directory Dentist Directory Hospital Directory Pertussis more about Pertussis Whooping cough A bacterial infection that primarily affects the nose and throat.   It usually affects the respiratory tract of infants less than 2 years old.   This disease gets its name because patients with the disease make a "whooping" sound when they take a breath. Symptoms usually develop 7-17 days after the initial infection by the bacteria. Most patients who develop symptoms are under the age of 2. Symptoms usually last about 6 weeks, and are divided into 3 stages: Stage 1 symptoms include sneezing, runny eyes, runny nose, loss of appetite, loss of energy, and nighttime coughing. Stage 2 symptoms include a series of rapid coughs followed by the "whoop" noise when the person tries to take in a breath. Stage 3 is the recovery phase in which the coughing is not as frequent or as severe.   This stage usually begins after about the 4th week. Whooping Cough is suspected in young patients with a cough lasting more than 2 weeks. The cause is a bacterium called, Bordetella  Pertussis.  The bacterium is spread between people by respiratory droplets, which are produced when infected people cough or sneeze.   It can also be spread via contact with infected body fluids such as nasal secretions. A diagnosis is made by growing the bacterium in samples of fluid taken from the nose and throat of the patient. Other lab tests may show high white blood cell counts Regimen of erythromycin, 500 mg taken four times a day, helps decrease the length of infection and also may help decrease the severity of the coughing. Immunization with the pertussis vaccine is recommended for all infants. This vaccine is usually administered as a DTP (diphtheria, Tetanus , and pertussis) combined vaccine. Infants and adults who have been exposed to others with the infection should take prophylactic antibiotics to prevent the development of infection. Neither previous infection nor vaccination gives life-long immunity. However, booster doses of the vaccine are not recommended after the age of 6, unless there is an outbreak of the infection. Common Cold Bronchitis Epiglottitis Pneumonia Allergic Rhinitis Sinusitis Tonsillitis more about Pertussis Select a Health Topic ADD/ADHD Allergy Alternative Medicine Arthritis Asthma Beyond Dieting Body Aches and Pains Breast Cancer Cancer Awareness Cardio Health Children's Health Colon Cancer Contraception COPD/Emphysema Dental Health Diabetes Elder Care Emergency Room Epilepsy Erectile Dysfunction Eye Care Fertility Fitness Gastrointestinal Health Glands and Hormones Gynecologic Health Hair Loss Headache Healthcare Today Healthy Aging HIV and AIDS Infectious Diseases Kidney Health Leukemia Liver Health Lung Cancer Lymphoma Multiple Sclerosis Men's Health Mental Health Nutrition Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Pregnancy & Childbirth Sexual Health Skin Health Sleep Disorders Special Events Stroke Surgeries and Procedures Teen Health Thyroid Health Urologic Health Vascular Disease Women's Health Workplace Health Home | About Us | Contact Us | Employment Ad | Help Terms and Conditions under which this service is provided to you. Read our Privacy Policy