<http://www.ybenedict.org/?p=7>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Womens Health: What is Gestational Diabetes? - Women Health Center Women Health Center All about women health information Home About Contact Us Contact Us Home article Health Health Center Pregnancy health Women health care Women health clinic Womens Health: What is Gestational Diabetes? July 9th, 2009 Admin Advertisement What Is Gestational Diabetes? Gestational diabetes occur only in pregnant women. This diabetes is caused due to disorder in the placenta of the pregnant women. When the pancreas of the women fails to produce extra insulin, the blood sugar level becomes unusually high. This condition is termed as gestational diabetes. It is essential for all future mothers to have a complete knowledge of the link between women and gestational diabetes. Diagnosis Gestational diabetes is diagnosed when the woman is about 24-28 weeks pregnant. It is diagnosed by “oral glucose tolerance test” in which the woman is instructed not to eat for 4 to 8 hours. Then her blood sugar level is measured by the medical caretakers. After checking the normal sugar count, she is given a sugar drink and after 2 hours the sugar level test is redone to assess abnormality in blood sugar level. If the women’s sugar level is below 140 mg/dl then she is certified to be in the safe limit. However, if the sugar count is more than 140 mg/dl, she is diagnosed with gestational diabetes. Causes Gestational diabetes is more likely to happen in obese women more than 25years of age and who have following records - A family record of diabetes or has prior experience of this disease in past pregnancies can lead to gestational diabetes. Women who delivered an unusually large and healthy baby or a baby born with birth defects in the past can have gestational diabetes. If the women has excess amount of amniotic fluid, she is prone to gestational diabetes. Symptoms and risk factors Symptoms of gestational diabetes can be assessed by the delivery of baby and both the mother child condition- The blood sugar level of diabetic pregnant women becomes abnormally high. The fetus that nourishes in this abnormally large amount of sugar level becomes large enough to be delivered by vagina. One needs surgical operation to deliver the baby. Doctors notice high amount of insulin in the body of the newborn baby. After few days the baby is exposed to the condition of hypoglycemia i.e. low level of blood glucose because the baby is no more influenced with mother’s high sugar level. Unusual hunger, thirst, weight gain or high blood pressure is sign of gestational diabetes. Recurrent vaginal infection and excessive urination are signs of gestational diabetes. Treatments A planned and balanced diet devoid of sweets is prescribed to the diabetic women to keep the sugar level in the normal range of 60 to 120 mg/dl. The diabetic lady should exercise at least 3 or 4 days a week to maintain the sugar level in the body by burning excess fat. Balanced food and exercises can help in maintaining the normal pregnancy weight gain which is vital for treating gestational diabetes. In case of severe gestational diabetes, a weekly or daily glucose level test is advised to the diabetic mother. If all these treatments prove ineffective, then insulin injections are recommended by the doctors to control the blood sugar level in the diabetic lady. Complications If the disease of gestational diabetes is left untreated or is not properly controlled than the baby can develop certain complications that includes- Macrosomia, jaundice, respiratory distress syndrome, death after 28 weeks of pregnancy or in infancy. Gestational diabetes can occur in future pregnancies as well. So the pregnant ladies must seek doctoral advice and get complete details of how to prevent this diabetes in future as well as present pregnancy. Watch the video related to women health Scientists and community members speak about a variety of topics including: 1) the dramatic need for scientific information on women’s health and on gender-specific factors determining health and disease; 2) the scientific tradition of excluding women as participants in many clinical trials, and the continuing practice of “pooling” subject data rather than analyzing health outcomes by gender that have each contributed to this “knowledge gap,”; 3) the progress being made in reversing these … Help answer the question about women health What are some centers for women's health/family planning? I am looking to get involved and volunteer with an organization that does outreach work for family planning and women's reproductive health/rights but am having trouble locating one. I am looking for organizations that are NGO's and may have a more liberal outlook on women's reproductive rights than a government-sponsored organization. I am in Metro Manila…….. About Author Posted in Women Health Tags: depression , Gestational Diabetes , Health , hormones , naturopath , postpartum , pregnancy , Women , Womens Health « Womens Health Questions About Womens Health Problems Women health reproductive » You can leave a response , or trackback from your own site. 18 Responses to “Womens Health: What is Gestational Diabetes?” blueone says: July 9, 2009 at 2:04 pm from a woman's perspective it simply means that she neednt be concerned about taking contraceptives… those contraceptives do interfere with your natural hormone and  rythmic cycles. Can induce weight gain, mood swings and so on…. as if you were actually pregnant. It also means that by reason of the removal of risk of unwanted pregnancy a female partner of a man who has had a vasectomy needn't face the stress associated with potential pregnancy, the decision process for abortion, the anxiety resulting from that process and the ongoing "what if" that resides in her head for the rest of her life. In all, I'd say that it has a significant impact on a woman's well being. On the other side of the coin, the thrill of risking pregnancy in an encounter with a stranger is lost if that stranger has had a vasectomy… but I guess you can pretend… but ask to see his scar first. BrookeAmber11690 says: July 9, 2009 at 2:46 pm I’ve been wondering why I threw up so much more than everyone else I knew that has gone through a pregnancy… I threw up multiple times a day, every day, for the entire first trimester. I was experiencing stress before I became pregnant, quite intense stress. This all makes much more sense. choctaw1981 says: July 9, 2009 at 3:01 pm Thanks for posting this. It makes a lot of sense. As someone with Celiac Disease, I can see how this all ties in together (high stress, malnutrition due to contaminated diet, and how it affects mom/baby)… It also makes sense why something like this would run all the way to the 3rd trimester if not sorted out properly in the 1st and 2nd. behr b says: July 9, 2009 at 3:25 pm Actually, because this is the newest field of study, considering that fifty years ago, women were not treated any differently than small men in the healthcare field.  Finally, doctors, medicine companies, and health studies are focusing on the problems that are unique to women and not just treating them in the same way that was once used to treat men.  So, natually, this is a movement that has sparked interest, women being different and responding differently to treatment than their male counterparts.  So, it is in the news and is a growing area of healthcare.  And considering that we are interested in keeping all members of society healthy, this is a trend that has great potential for human growth and development.  Plus, women are likely to be more active in their own care when they are being addressed as women and not as men.  So, it has economic and social importance too. fakebobjones says: July 9, 2009 at 5:20 pm Well i dont really know what some of the terminology that you used, but i volunteer for Planned Parenthood…. they have an very imformative web site with all the links that you would need including a volunteer application. You can choose how often you would like to volunteer and they type of events that youre interested in volunteering for! I like planned parenthood because i actually am a patient there and theyre all for YOU making any and all decisions necessary and theyre very non judgemental!! its a really good organizatin and i highly reccomend them!  GOOD LUCK… and remember no matter WHO you volunteer for and what they believe in, youre changing someones life for the better, and doing something that not everyone has the heart to do! Have fun and happy hunting! 11visionary11 says: July 10, 2009 at 12:02 am lol….its all about petty revenge:) Woman were low on the class scale and even though we have are equal under the law, some feel men just dont get it and want some payback…kinda immature, I know:) homebaby4 says: July 10, 2009 at 1:35 am Women's health Definition Women's health is the effect of gender on disease and health that encompasses a broad range of biological and psychosocial issues. Description Women's health is the concept that examines gender differences in health and disease states. The average life expectancy has almost doubled for women (79 years for women and 73 years for men), when compared with averages during the turn of the century. Because of the gender gap in lifespan, women comprise approximately two thirds of the population older than 65 and three fourths of the population aged 85 years and older. Currently the fastest growing group in the United States is persons aged 85 years and older. Because of gender life expectancy differences, it is estimated that at the beginning of the twenty-first century, women will outnumber men in the 85 years and older category by 3:1. The reasons for this variance are primarily due to physiological differences among men and women. During different phases of a women's life cycle there are complex interactions that exist between sex hormones, physiological changes, and emotional issues. Physiological changes occur as early as embryonic development when hormones program structural differences between male and female brains. During reproductive years, sex hormones profoundly influence reproduction and development, which creates a spectrum of gender specific health issues. With advancing age and onset of menopause, women's risk factors for disease is comparably similar to men's. Although the same disease may affect women as men, it is thought that biological mechanisms and psychosocial differences influence the clinical course of the disease (natural history) differently in women. The number of women working has doubled within the past 50 years. The effect of work stress, new environmental exposures and multiple roles is expected to have health and social impact. The leading causes of death among women are cardiovascular disease, malignant cancer, cerebrovascular disease, chronic lung disease, pneumonia/influenza, and diabetes. Additionally, women can be prone to osteoporosis, alcohol abuse, psychological disorders, human immunodeficiency virus infection, and violence. Heart Disease accounts for approximately a third of all deaths in women. About 250,000 women die annually of coronary heart disease or a one in three chance after age 40 years. The incidence of heart disease occurs about 10 years later in women than in men, since estrogens in premenopausal women has a protective effect. African American women are more prone to die from heart disease up to age 75. Beyond 75 years of age the propensity is reversed. Native American and Hispanic women have lower death rates from heart disease. Malignant cancers are the most common cause of premature death among women. Breast cancer is the second leading cause of death in women and the most commonly diagnosed cancer. Lung cancer, secondary to cigarette smoking is the leading cause of cancer death among women. Cerebrovascular disease, or stroked related deaths account for approximately 6% of all deaths in women and it is the third leading cause of mortality. The least common form of stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, is the more common cause in women. The prevalence of cigarette smoking has increased greatly in women and this is correlated with pulmonary disease. Death rates for pulmonary disease including cancer and infectious causes of death are expected to rise for women. Diabetes, a leading cause of death in women is more prevalent among Hispanic, African American, and Native American women. Past age 45, diabetes affects about one in six women. Women can also develop: osteoporosis, or loss of the quantity of bone, common in postmenopausal women who have estrogen changes. alcohol abuse, characterized by repeated usage of alcohol despite negative consequences. These women frequently do not seek treatment because of fear of consequences (i.e., loss of child custody). This disease can also have adverse affects on fertility and in the developing fetus if the mother continues to consume alcohol (fetal alcohol syndrome). psychological disorders, such as depression and eating disorders. acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), which represents the highest percent increase in death rates. violence, a leading cause of death, primarily caused by a perpetrator who is or was a partner. Causes and symptoms Cardiovascular disease can be caused by blockage of a blood vessel, high blood pressure, or a secondary complication to another disease. There may be an abnormal heart rhythm or cell death. Patients may complain of a broad spectrum of symptoms that may include pain chest discomfort, high blood pressure, or strain during physical exertion. When attempting to define the cause and symptoms of cancer, it is important to assess the type of cancer and location. Additionally, if the tumor is localized (benign) or has spread to other areas (malignant), is vital for treatment planning and overall prognosis. In cases of breast cancer there mat be a lump discovered during self-examination or mammography (special breast x rays). Cerebrovascular disease may cause tremors (shaking), loss of balance and coordination, or functional and sensation loss of some parts of the body. Patients may have sudden transient strokes that could result in temporary loss of consciousness and amnesia of the incident. Patients may also develop chronic neurological states that causing memory loss and behavioral changes (Alzheimer's disease). Patients with pulmonary (lung) cancer may develop shortness of breath, fatigue, weight loss, worsening cough, and coughing up bright red blood with sputum. Lung infections such as pneumonia may present with high fever, weakness, difficulty breathing, and abnormal breathe sounds heard with a stethoscope during physical examination. Diabetes is a syndrome with disordered metabolism and high blood sugar due to an abnormality in the chemical that regulates sugar levels. It is characterized by an increased thirst, urination, and chronic skin infections. Osteoporosis may cause the bones to be brittle and weak. It is usually not detected until bones start to break. The alcohol abuser will continue to drink despite negative repercussions. The person may not seek treatment to evade legal and/or child custody problems. The patient may hide alcohol, or confine drinking to specific times. The disease progresses to where there may be permanent liver damage, memory blackouts and malnutrition. Depression may manifest a loss of interest and desire. Patients may have difficulty getting out of bed. They may lack motivation to work or tend to daily activities. Patients with AIDS may not have symptoms for years. When active disease occurs, patients will typically develop recurrent infections that are the usual cause of death. Domestic violence is usually associated with a perpetrator who is in a relationship with the affected person. Abuse can be manifested by physical violence and/or homicide. Diagnosis Diagnosis can be accomplished with a history, physical examination, and specialized tests or procedures. For cardiovascular disease an electrocardiogram can determine the activity of the heart. Additional tests may include echocardiography (ultrasonic waves that generate an image), stress testing, and studies that require placing a catheter with a probe to examine the damage to heart tissue. Special tests with dyes may also be injected to enhance visualization. Cancer may be detected using specialized test called tumor makers and imaging studies such as MRI and CAT scans. Cerebrovascular disease can be detected with a complete neurological examination and specialized imaging technology. Diabetes is usually detected by a careful history presence of risk factors (obesity) and blood analysis of glucose levels. Osteoporosis can be evaluated with specialized bone densitometry. Alcohol abuse can be established by a bio-psycho-social assessment and standardized tests which screen for this disorder. Psychological evaluation (such as the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, MMPI) can usually detect depression or eating disorders. AIDS can be established by a careful history, belonging to high-risk groups and Western blot analysis (examination of blood to detect the protein of human immunodeficiency virus). Violence can be established by physical signs of beating, such as cuts and bruises. Treatment Treatment depends on the extent of disease and the present health status of the patient. Additionally, in some cases treatment may stopped at sometime, or it may altogether be refused. Treatment for cardiovascular disease may include surgical intervention and/or conservative medical treatment with medications. Diet, exercise, and weight reduction are important parameters for treatment planning. Appropriate referrals, counseling, and follow up are usually indicated. Treatment for cancer may include a combination of surgery, chemotherapy or radiation therapy. These treatment modalities may be given singly or in combination or at different times during disease progression. Cerebrovascular disease can be treated surgically and/or with medications that thin the blood. Symptomatic care may be indicated in addition to close monitoring if the patient develops disability and/or cognitive impairment. Diabetes can be treated by dietary modifications and medications, which treat abnormal levels of blood glucose (sugar). Osteoporosis can be treatment with estrogen replacement and regular vitamin/mineral intake. Alcohol abuse may require long-term therapy, inpatient treatment and medications. Community centered support group meeting are also recommended as a form of treatment maintenance. To date there is no treatment for AIDS, other than medications, that offer symptomatic relief. Alcohol abuse, psychological disorders and violence require therapy, possible medication, and community centered support group meetings. Alternative treatment There are numerous studies which support intake of coenzyme Q10 for cardiovascular health. Studies have shown that beta-carotene and vitamin E and C have no effect for cancer. Some studies indicate positive results for reproductive health using acupuncture. Some advocates proposed certain herbs may be beneficial during menopause. According to most medical literature, further research using scientific method is vital for general acceptance. Prognosis The prognosis depends on the extent of disease and the physical and emotional status of the patient. Prognosis is also related to tolerance of treatment, adverse drug effects, and complication during or after surgery, disease resurgence and patient compliance with treatment recommendations. Prevention One of the most reliable measures of prevention is education and training. The Council on Graduate Medical Education has provided funding for numerous centers to research women health issues. On more individual level preventive and personal habits are vital for good health. Most physicians believe that a baseline physical examination is a reliable comparative tool. Women should receive counseling for special issues concerning cigarette smoking, exercise, diet, primary disease prevention, safe sexual practices, alcohol abuse, psychological disorders, and violence. Additionally, knowledge of family history is important since many diseases have a strong propensity among first-degree relatives. Blood pressure should normally be measured every other year. Screening tests for breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer is recommended. Pap smears taken during routine pelvic examinations can screen for disease processes in the reproductive tract. Serum cholesterol monitoring and reduction are advised. Patients may require postmenopausal estrogen replacement therapy and vitamin/mineral supplements. yomamayomama7 says: July 10, 2009 at 3:08 pm I am still looking for the college course “men’s  issues” – haven’t found it yet.  Of course, neither is there a “men’s hospital” or a local “for guys only” health club!  I think women would sue us for such things!!!! Max s says: July 10, 2009 at 4:51 pm The only really important things about her heatlh that are different in any real way from your own health stuff are things about genitourinary and reproductive function. Learn that… *all* of it… and apply what you already know about your own body wherever those things don't apply.. jwbarne says: July 10, 2009 at 4:56 pm I had severe postpartum after my daughter was born. I am now in the mist of getting full custody of my daughter after 3 years of her birth.  I am having a hard time explaining to the courts about my depression. I miss my baby so much and i hope to have her soon. My ex husband has her and is saying all the bad things i caused and that i am a bad person when i am not. He caused me so much stress during and after my pregnancy. Do you have any advice for me please? gslv says: July 10, 2009 at 5:07 pm means? you mean men? well.. i think they're curious and probably horny lol i go to women's health sometimes to check out a few things cause im curious and sometimes just because im horny Dee says: July 11, 2009 at 3:39 am Depending on the club, there is little difference between men's and women's equipment or facilities.  To me the real reason that there are all-women's clubs is not just to keep away the men who want to hit on women, but there are a lot of women who feel self-conscious about their "imperfect" bodies and just feel more comfortable in an environment where they don't have that added embarassment of the opposite sex watching them as they are trying to improve themselves. SpeedingStudent says: July 11, 2009 at 8:18 am Exactly. pdooma says: July 12, 2009 at 6:30 am they think they know us.   LOL wanjak06 says: July 12, 2009 at 12:54 pm Yes it does sound like thrush (yeast infection), however recurring yeast infections should be discussed with your doctor as there might be another problem/issue causing this. Good luck mimis122 says: July 12, 2009 at 1:28 pm the reason for that decifiency is that HIStory has all been from the perspective of men… women’s focus in contemporary society is as a response to this. The mainstream is male to begin with. 11visionary11 says: July 12, 2009 at 2:47 pm Right. No matter how stressed or depressed you are, you have a choice…get help, or hurt your little one…thats a choice some unfortunatly make. Its not excusable. iamwhoiamnow42 says: July 12, 2009 at 9:31 pm Men’s health clubs were closed after AIDS hit the spotlight in the early eighties. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Recent Posts Hormone Replacement for Men : the Significance of Testosterone Therapy The Importance of Drink Supplement 5 Different Types of Health Care Facilities Illnesses Suffered by Call Center Agents Launching An Adult Day Health Care Center In Chicago Archives November 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 March 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 Blogroll green tea Teeth Whitening Gels trojan condoms What is Acid 