X-Runtime: 1.44104
Connection: close

What Can Physical Therapy Do For Your Back and Neck Pain? -  Revolution Health What would you like to find? Search hide [x] Register | Sign in My Revolution Home Member-created Health Pages PageBuilder modules Video Conditions Drugs & treatments Consumer advocacy Symptom checker Toolkit Allergies Arthritis Asthma Cancer Dental health Depression Diabetes Digestive Heart High cholesterol Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) Mental & behavioral health Obesity Pain management Sexual health Skin, hair & nails Weight loss surgery View all conditions A - Z Healthy living Cosmetic surgery Healthy recipes Healthy living newsletters You! guide Caring for others Dental health Family & parenting Fitness Food & nutrition Men's health Mom central Natural health Pregnancy Relationships & life balance Summer safety Vitamins and supplements Weight loss surgery Weight management Women's health View all healthy living topics Drugs & treatments Doctors & hospitals Find a doctor Find a dentist Find a hospital Learn about insurance Community Blogs Forums Goals Groups View all communities My public profile My blog My stories My questions My groups What Can Physical Therapy Do For Your Back and Neck Pain? Health Pages Print Save & Share Send Page Widgets Digg this StumbleUpon Add to Delicious Adjust text smaller Adjust text larger Clip Understand Back pain main Introduction Causes Prevention Diagnose When to get help Screening & diagnosis Treat Treatments & medications Live with Care for yourself Kids Community Join discussions, share stories, and find people like you: Bones, joints and muscles community Advertisement Advertisement What Can Physical Therapy Do For Your Back and Neck Pain? Date effective: December 05, 2006 Content provided by Cleveland Clinic Physical therapy Physical therapy is the

 science of blending physiology with exercises and applying these principles to

 the body when an injury is sustained. Physical therapy for back and neck

 conditions focuses on the structures that support the spine and its joints

 including muscles, tendons, and ligaments Goals of physical therapy There are five main goals of physical therapy, as described below: To educate patients on the principles of stretching and strengthening, which

 will in turn, help manage pain and accelerate tissue healing. To educate patients on proper posture and ergonomic principles to preserve the

 spine. To accelerate the stages of healing, which focus on: -- Reducing pain and the inflammatory cycle *Apply passive modalities only if severe: ice/heat/ultrasound/traction/electrical stimulation *Educate regarding posture and resting in neutral position -- Restoring muscular flexibility, joint mobility, and spine motion *Introduce specific stretching exercises and progressions to

 abolish pain and stiffness to specific regions with high frequency and

 repetitions --Strengthening the involved muscles *Teach how to maintain the new pos tures --Returning to normal activities *Create new awareness of body mechanics and daily stretching for life To prevent future occurrences. As you are able to maneuver

 through episode of back or neck pain, learn what program is needed to deter

 relapses. To manage exacerbations. No matter how diligent you are, you

 are bound to have a forgetful moment and do an activity improperly and suffer

 flare up, but new knowledge will help eliminate symptoms in a couple days,

 instead of suffering for weeks or months. Prevalence of pain Studies show that 90 percent of the population experience spine symptoms at least once in lifetime. Many people have neck and back pain, but it is not always

 isolated to those regions. The pain can also travel into arms or head/eyes as

 well as radiate into the gluts, groin, hip and legs/feet. Each episode of back stiffness and pain can become

 progressively worse and last longer and travel farther from its origin. If you don't stop the cycle and figure out the cause of each

 episode, accumulation of damage to structures lead to eventual failure of the

 spinal structures. At this stag, physical therapy alone will not be effective.

 You will need more extensive intervention with spine doctors, pain management,

 or possibly a surgeon. If the patient addresses symptoms early, 95 percent of

 herniated disc patients would NOT require surgery! Action plan: What you can do Overall, you need to maintain good posture throughout all of

 your daily activities. If you start to feel sore or stiff, change your posture

 and modify your body mechanics. Your body will warn you -- using pain as a signal -- when your body mechanics are

 improperly aligned. However, many times we choose to ignore these signals in

 order to complete the project, paper, book, etc. By not listening to your body,

 sometimes it is too late and the inflammatory process is initiated. The best way

 to avoid pain is to learn to listen to your body. Sit up straight! It feels better and puts the least amount

 of strain on your spine! If you sit or bend too often or for too long a period

 of time, bend in the opposite direction to balance the stresses out and relieve

 muscle tension. More on sitting... When sitting, arch your back 5 to 10

 times if you feel stiff. Repeat two to three times a day (or more often if you

 are sore). Other stretching exercise to do at your desk: shoulder rolls backwards x 10 shoulder blade squeeze x 10 chin in x 10 chin in & slowly stretch head back x 10 head turn over shoulders x 10 each way standing back bend stretch x 10 If you are having headaches , do chin tucks or cervical

 retractions 10 to 15 times every couple hours or hold your head in a retracted

 position for up to 3 minutes to eliminate the headache symptoms. However, if

 inflammation has gone too far, you may need to reduce it by lying on your back

 with an ice pack placed at the base of your skull for 20 minutes. If your neck is sore or you experience pain down into your

 shoulder blades or have stiff/tight muscles, bend your head backwards 10-15

 times. Repeat this exercise every couple hours if you continue to hurt. If you

 are really tight or feel pinching, go slowly, move a little at a time, and apply

 ice as well. NOTE: If stretching exercises affect the symptoms of headache or neck pain by either

 increasing or decreasing their occurrence, it's likely that the problem is

 indeed mechanical and will respond positively to the proper amount of stretching

 exercises. If your back hurts , stand up and do 10 to 15 back bends or

 if it's too sore, lie on your stomach and perform 10 press ups. Repeat them

 two to three times per day. Strengthen and reeducate your postural muscles so that you

 can endure your daily activities. Although it takes more muscular and mental

 effort, create this new awareness and develop this new habit. Regular stretching of upper and lower cervical spine 4 to 6

 times a day over 6 to 8 weeks can increase spinal mobility, allowing good

 posture to be maintained with little effort. If your symptoms are improving after attempting the

 exercises for a few days, continue your stretching exercises. If, on the other

 hand, your symptoms are not changing or are getting worse, stop the stretching

 exercises and seek professional help. A physical therapist can make sure you are

 performing the exercises correctly and can modify the exercise as necessary. To

 be seen by a physical therapist in the state of Ohio, all patients require

 referral from a physician for evaluation and treatment with the appropriate

 diagnosis included on the prescription slip. Ergonomic Tips: Tricks to them all: Simply Put: Use your

 postural muscles! Don't just wear them. Think chest out, chin in, stomach tight

 with standing, walking, lifting & bending Standing: keep one foot in front of and more elevated than

 the other when working in a cupboard, ironing, washing dishes, or even standing

 at work. Sitting: use lumbar support in car/chair or adjust car seat

 to upright. Sitting up straight puts the least amount of stress on the spine. It

 may take more muscular and mental effort but it is wise to create this new

 awareness and habit! Sleeping: sidelying: bottom leg straight; top leg can be

 bent or rested on pillow Bending: use golfer's lift or ï¿½ kneeling position when

 putting dishes in dishwasher, getting laundry out of washer, putting items into

 trunk/cart, etc. Lifting: keep the object being lifted close to you; get down

 under it Remember: chronic poor posture causes a

 loss of flexibility in the major muscle in front of the shoulders (i.,e., the

 pectoralis major muscle), decreases the mobility of the cervical spine, and

 causes loss of strength of the scapular muscles, making it nearing impossible

 to maintain good posture, even if asked to do so. Optimal body positioning to decrease neck and

 back pain Sleeping: Get into a neutral position,

 either on your back (use 1 pillow) or side (use 1 pillow). Avoid lying on your

 stomach. When lying on your side, make sure your head is positioned such that

 you are looking ahead, not down at your feet. Contour pillows are good to use

 (though they take some time to get used to) or pillows that incorporate a

 cervical roll. Driving: Stay upright with you head

 against the head rest and straighten arms out to keep shoulders back. Tilt

 rearview mirror a titch toward the roof so that an upright posture is necessary

 to maintain the total field of vision in the mirror. Computer: Screen should be positioned at

 eye level, with head back and chin in. Sit back in chair and use a lumbar roll.

 Use attached arm on monitor or other device to hold documents at eye level. Reading: DON'T READ IN BED!!! Often, too

 much head flexion is created if pillows are bunched up behind the head. Instead,

 sit with your back against the headboard or in a chair next to the bed. Hobbies counter- or lap-based hobbies

 such as quilting, sewing, collecting items in albums, etc): Don't continuously

 look down for long periods of time without taking a break. Change your physical

 position and stretch in the opposite direction about every 20 minutes. Gardening: Don't do marathon gardening

 sessions. Take frequent breaks. Half kneel or squat when working. Cleaning: When possible, half kneel or

 squat to keep spine in a neutral position. Watching television: Sit up straight in the chair or on your couch. Don't slouch. Get up

 periodically and walk around. Do neck exercises to keep limber. Posture: Why is it so important? The three natural curves of the spine plus the discs in the spine help absorb the shock or forces of everyday life. Jobs or tasks that require bending forward all day (in addition to the 3,000 and 5,000 times a day we ordinarily bend forward), decrease the natural curves of the spine, resulting in more stress being placed on the back side of ligament and joints of cervical and lumbar spine. Overall, bad posture results in more wear and tear on the spinal structures. After age 30, all the years of straining the normal tissue from slouching eventually decreases structural stability allowing for greater wear down of ligaments. Postural misalignment can cause radiating pain away from the back and spine due, for instance, to a pinched nerve; and muscle spasms can create headaches and neck/scapular pain. Pain often begins as a soreness or stiffness in the neck and shoulder blades and can progress to headache pressure and band-like symptoms around head and/or back tightness that can progress to the hip, leg, and toes. Many factors contribute to the onset of pain, including job duties, hobbies, household responsibilities, studying, genetics, etc. ©Copyright 1995-2006 The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. All rights reserved. Living well with psoriatic arthritis Don't let the chronic pain of psoriatic arthritis keep you from what you love. You can reclaim your life. Our guide can help. Live well with psoriatic arthritis Advertisement Need to lower your cholesterol? When grease builds up in your kitchen sink, it can clog your pipes. The same goes for plaque in your arteries. Prevent buildup and keep your blood free-flowing with simple lifestyle changes. Get our heart-healthy tips Try our symptom checker Stomachache that comes and goes? Lingering headache? Persistent cough? Try our symptom checker tool to help figure out what's wrong. Start checking your symptoms Advertisement Advertisement Important information about Conditions & treatments Diseases & conditions: Acid reflux Alzheimer's Asthma & allergies Autism Back pain Bones, joints & muscles Cancer Depression Diabetes Heart Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) Skin, hair & nails Women's health More... Healthy living: Family & parenting Fitness Food & nutrition Men's health Mom central Natural health Pregnancy Relationships & life balance Weight management Women's health More... Search & find: Doctors & care providers Hospitals & care facilities Drugs & treatments Insurance More... Resources & tools: Newsletters Healthy living programs Calculators Trackers More... Affiliates: Everyday Health CarePages™ RediClinic® Extend Health™ Revolution Case Foundation HealthTalk Company information: About Revolution Health Our policies Advertise with us Site map Contact us Help Ad Choice Notice by Web Site Third parties who place advertisements on our Web sites may collect and use information about your visits to our Web sites and other Web sites in order to provide advertisments about goods and services of interest to you. If you would like to obtain more information about the practices of these third parties and make choices about their use of your information,
  please click here . © 2012 Everyday Health, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of Revolution Health's terms of service and privacy policy . The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider. This site complies with the HONcod