
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 06:06:00 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Slip Disc Yoga Exercise for Lower Back Pain Yoga >> Ask a question >> Yoga and Illness Yoga for Slip Disc Follow I have degenerative slip disc, what form of yoga exercises should i practice and how many times a day? I tend to suffer from pains in my right lower back muscles around the hip. (November  9, 2010) Slip disc happens when the pads in between the bones of the spine that act as shock absorbers get ruptured.  When this rupture happens, in addition to the failure of the pads to absorb shock, a jelly like substance seeps out of the pads, putting more pressure on the spinal cord. A slip disc can occur due to the degeneration of the structure of the spine, disease, old age, or an excess of pressure put on the spine. Slip disc can be quite a painful condition. Some of the symptoms include a tingling sensation, numbness or pain in the feet, legs, buttocks, hands, arms, back, shoulder, or neck. It can also cause sciatica. Practicing yoga for slip disc can be very effective. There have been cases in which the practice of yoga for slip disc has completely relieved pain and other symptoms. Practicing the yoga postures are meant to smooth out imbalances and bring the body back into a state of equilibrium. Some of the effective yoga postures for a slip disc are Bhujangasana (Cobra Pose), Salabhasana (Locust Pose), Makarasana (Crocodile Pose), and Pawanmuktasana (Wind Releasing Pose). Sciatica is more of a symptom that is usually caused due to some condition than a condition by itself. Practicing yoga for slip disc and sciatica can be helpful as they are both quite closely related. It usually affects a person between the ages of 30 to 56. Some of the effective yoga postures for sciatica are Ardha Halasana (Half Plough Pose), Ardha Shalabhasana (Half-Locust Pose), Tadasana (Mountain Pose), and Chakrasana (Wheel Pose). You could also practice some of the yoga postures for back pain like Savasana (Corpse Pose) and Matsyasana (Fish Pose). Practicing some exercises for slip disc in the lower back like arms curls on exercise ball, lumbar bridge, upper leg stretch, and lumbar stretch can be effective.  To perform the arms curls on an exercise ball, you should be seated on an exercise ball and maintain your balance. Let the muscles around your midsection be tensed. Then, take hold of three pound dumbbells while extending your arms to the ground. Let the weights curl to the height of your shoulder and bring your hands back to the first position. Perform this exercise around 15 times with 30 second breaks between each set. Before you begin performing fitness exercises for a slip disc, you should rest for a few days to bring about healing. The length of time for which you will need to rest will depend on the severity of your injury. Once sufficient rest is taken, you can practice the yoga postures for slip disc to facilitate a faster recovery. Submitted by A on November  9, 2010 at 06:16 Yoga helps to restore the pain and trauma caused due to slip discs. Different forms of yoga help to provide relief from back pain due to slip discs. Few exercises help to bring the disc back to its normal position so as to provide great comfort to the human body. Full bed rest is required for the speedy recovery of the individual and simple yoga exercises help to increase the mobility of the body. It also greatly depends on the kind of injury which caused the slip disc. Yoga helps in better and speedy recovery from the ailment of slip disc. Several asanas of yoga like makarasana (crocodile pose) and pavan muktasana (free breeze pose) helps to provide relief from the pain caused due to slip disc. Other asanas which provide comfort for slip disc include salabhaasana (locust pose) and bhujanga (cobra pose) asana. Pranayama (breath control pose) asana of yoga shows great results and helps in recovery from the ailment of slip disc. Breathing exercises in pranayama shows effects on the spine which provides pressure on various body parts in the central organs of the body like abdomen and chest. It provides comfort to the stomach and abdomen and constant inhalation and exhalation of the air provides relaxation to the muscles near the stomach and the thigh. The breathing exercises involved in the yoga help to provide proper movements to the ribs of the body and the pressure variation caused in the chest and the abdomen help to restore the muscle stature lost due to disc delocalization. It also provides relief from the stress and strain caused in the body due to dislocation of the disc. Yoga exercises that involve breathing and meditation help to provide comfort to the neck and back. The vertebral column comprises of several bones in the body and all the bones are interlined in the form of the rib cage. Disc delocalization affects the whole rib cage and the vertebral column to be affected because of the movement of the spinal cord from its original position. Yoga goes a long way for the restoration of bones to their original position and also brings the front and back of the ligaments of the disc to their original position along with the fibers and the cartilages. Great results can be provided once the cartilages and the fibers are in place which helps in reduction in the pain caused due to slip disc. Submitted by R J on August  1, 2008 at 08:17 Follow Read more questions in Yoga and Illness Related Topics Sarvanga Asana Shoulder Stand | Recommended Suffering Slip Disc Prevent Hands Feet Slipping Yoga Mat Yoga Disk Degenerative Disease Regain Lost Balance Spinal Therapy | Decompression Therapy Degenerative Discs Spinal therapy helps in the treatment of sciatica, spinal stenosis, herniated discs, facet syndrome Yoga Pose Relieve Groin Hip Lower Back Pain Related Articles Exercises Herniated Disc Lower Back Extension |Abdominal Isometrics | Yoga Exercises It is important to consult your doctor before starting any exercises for a herniated disc. This is Supta Vajrasana Digestion Supta Vajrasana in Sanskrit means thunderbolt, it was Lord Indra's weapon. It is known as the king Low Back Pain Exercises Yoga Stretching Upper Back Neck Pain A majority of the population is affected by back pain at some point in their lives. It is also one Spine Twisting Pose Ardha Matsyendrasana Ardha Matsyendrasana asana is also known as the Spine Twisting Asana. It is one of the essential Sciatica Nerve Exercises Yoga | Pinched | Piriformis Sciatic Nerve Stretches The sciatica nerve is supposed to be the longest and largest nerve in the body. It starts somewhere Log In Here Close User name * (User name is your email address) Password * Sign-up Forgot Your Password? Newsletter Sign-up Subscribe eBooks Related Yoga Information yoga and fibroids iron yoga yoga and belly fat yoga and spirituality cat pose Get Current News Ask a question Follow us on Copyright © 2011 Waterfront Media, Inc. Terms of Use | Sitemap The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy . Search: Yoga | Logi