<http://www.holistickid.com/?p=699>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Eczema — Holistic Kid Holistic Kid Chinese Medicine | Holistic Pediatrics | Fertility | Pregnancy | Los Angeles Holistic Kid Real food and holistic health for kids of all ages. Subscribe via email ABOUT Wise Nutrition Making Babies RAISING HEALTHY KIDS Recipes Real Food Resources BROWSE ALL TOPICS Eczema August 4, 2009 Natural Treatments for Eczema in Children Eczema can be frustrating and uncomfortable for everyone involved.  Kids have to deal with itchy patches of red, irritated, rough and even scaly or oozing skin.  Parents have to cope with trying to figure out how to soothe their child’s discomfort and prevent it from getting worse or reoccurring. From a western medical perspective, there is no cure for eczema and treatment usually involves topical steroid creams that- often ineffectively- suppress the skin inflammation.  Chinese Medicine, on the other hand, can identify the root cause of eczema and offers safe, natural, and effective treatment. Eczema and Chinese Medicine Medical research supports what Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) practitioners have known for centuries: TCM can alleviate eczema breakouts and substantially reduce symptoms, and it’s a good alternative to conventional treatment in children. According to an article on WebMD Health News , a study was done at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York on 14 children suffering with eczema who were treated with herbal tea, herbal creams and acupuncture. Patients with severe symptoms saw improvements in as little as three months of treatments, and after 8 months, symptoms were reduced to very mild. Results of a study conducted in Japan on adult patients has also yielded strong positive results for TCM and improvement in eczema symptoms.  87% of patients were symptom free after 3 to 4 months of treatment, and 12% were substantially improved. Traditional Chinese Medicine identifies two general patterns of eczema in kids- indicating either excess or deficiency in your child’s body.  In both patterns, eczema results from damp heat smoldering in the skin, and this is usually caused in part by either weak or immature digestion and/or dietary imbalances.  Keep in mind that all children have relatively “weaker” digestion, and are therefore susceptible to conditions such as eczema. TCM Treatments for Eczema Eczema, like most skin conditions, is usually a reflection of an imbalance occurring INSIDE the body. This may be occurring evening if your child seems otherwise perfectly healthy.  Chinese medicine provides a solution for the root cause of the eczema as helping the itchy skin to clear up for good. Your TCM practitioner can design a protocol that may include herbs, dietary adjustments, supplements, and acupuncture/acupressure to address your child’s specific condition. Dietary Recommendations and Supplements Eliminating foods that act as irritants to the body may help control eczema.  Dairy, wheat, and sugar are some foods that may be triggers, but there may be others.  Even mild levels of intolerance to foods can trigger eczema flare-ups, so the effort food eliminations take can be very worthwhile.   Speak to your health practitioner for support on targeting the offending foods. These two supplements that are often helpful for treating eczema and are a good place to start: 1. Fish oil - Among the many benefits of omega 3 fatty acids in fish oil is the ability to reduce inflammation throughout the body.  This mean less redness and itchiness for skin conditions including eczema.  Read more about the benefits of Omega 3’s here . 2. Probiotics -  help reduce eczema flare-ups in many children.  Flare-ups on the skin usually reflect an imbalance inside… usually the digestive tract. Probiotics populate the gut with “good bacteria” that can suppress the growth of potentially harmful bacteria which compromise the immune system’s ability to function.  Read more here … Disclaimer Pin It Sharing is awesome Like What You've Read? Subscribe to Holistic Kid by email and never miss a post! Comments Marcie Mom says: July 7, 2011 at 1:02 am Hi! My baby’s eczema is quite manageable now but I’m curious whether you or anyone has a child who has undergone TCM treatment? Would like to understand more, and whether, the rashes reappear after treatment. admin says: July 7, 2011 at 10:11 am Hi Marcie – Thanks for you question. Eczema is one of the most common conditions in my practice ranging from mild cases that resolve quickly to much more complicated cases that can take awhile to fully heal.  Unlike conventional treatment with steroid creams, antibiotics, etc which suppress the condition and if used consistently can lead to further health issues such as allergies, asthma, and immune conditions, the TCM and holistic approach addresses the eczema from it’s root cause. Eczema almost always stems from an underlying digestive weakness, even if the child has no digestive symptoms.  When we are able to restore balance to the child’s system, the eczema resolves and is much less likely to reoccur.  What are you doing to manage your baby’s eczema? Eny says: January 15, 2012 at 2:51 pm Hi, I just found your website and I’m so glad I did. My 5 months old has eczema on her sides…..the outside of her arms and legs and upper body. None on her face (thank God) but a little behind her ears.  I went off dairy for more than a month, but no improvement. I am trying gluteinfree diet now and will go off eggs too. I’m trying to eliminate everything that could bother her. She is exclusively breastfed. I started giving her Carlson’s CLO 4 days ago…no difference yet, but it might be too early to see results. Changed the detergent and doing double rinsing….btw, what kinda detergent would you suggest for me to use on her clothes? Putting california baby lotion on her skin and coconut oil every day. Nothing seems to help, it keeps getting worse and worse. Any advice would help, please give me a pointer at least where to go, what to do. We live in POrtland, OR it’s pretty dark and rainy during the winter, that doesn’t help either. Oh, and i’ve been givnig her probiotics too. Thank you for your help! Eny Trackbacks Tylenol Trouble — Holistic Kid says: January 16, 2012 at 1:35 pm [...] acetaminophen frequently are susceptible to an increase in allergic diseases including asthma, eczema and seasonal allergies.  Several studies have also shown that kids who are given Tylenol after [...] Meet Your Holistic Practitioner – Robin Green, L.Ac. — Holistic Kid says: January 24, 2012 at 6:37 pm [...] most commonly treat immune related conditions such as eczema, asthma, allergies, low immunity, chronic ear infections, sinusitis and [...] Speak Your Mind Cancel reply Name * Email * Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail Products I Love … I’m reading… The Holistic Baby Guide - From eczema to earaches, this book helps parents through the common health problems in babies and young children providing safe and effective alternative care options. Recent Comments Bebe: Oh great, thanks for the reminder, now I have to go take my FCLO. ;P I mucked my way through the emu... Sara: I've been making this for a month now and all this time searching for the answer to a question you h... Bebe: Ah, you're speaking my language again here Monica. My daughter and I are still imbibing our raw live... Lea H @ Nourishing Treasures: Thank you for your submission on Nourish... DrMommaLaelle: Everyone really enjoyed these, thanks so much for the delicious recipe!  Even those who had no idea ... Soli @ I Believe in Butter: Oh wow this looks amazing! Something to save for when I make my own booch.... Holly: Monica-your recipe for apple ginger soda makes delicious cocktails as well.... DrMommaLaelle: So excited to make a batch of these for our family dinner tomorrow night :-) .... Popular Posts Year of the Metal Tiger : Looking for information about the 2012 Chinese New Year - the Year of the Black Wat ... Is Your Baby’s Blue Vein a Sugar Bug? : Both of my children were born with a faint blue vein on the bridge of their nose, a... My Family Ate 40 Pounds of Butter in 3 Months : In mid-December a 40 pound block of butter was delivered to my home on the back of ... How to Eat Real Food on a Budget : Tee hee. [nervous giggle]  Do you think I actually have an answer to that? Well..... 10 Grain-Free Dinners on a Budget : Perhaps you are on the GAPS diet, eat low carb, or do Paleo. Personally, I just... About Emily Bartlett EmilyBartlettAcupuncture.com Book An Appointment with Emily Join the Conversation on Facebook Follow me on Pinterest Subscribe via Email Contact Emily Real Food Resource Guide Holistic Kid Reading List Disclaimer Pri