Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Research And Benefits - NIH Seminar on Sahaja Yoga NIH 
			seminar on Sahaja Yoga Healing bronchial asthma, high blood pressure, and cancer begins with our
			own untapped energy according to a presentation featuring Sahaja Yoga held
			on September 9, 1998 by the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland. During the six-hour seminar sponsored by the NIH, Dr. Umesh C. Rai, an
			internationally renowned medical physiologist from India, gave a keynote
			address and unveiled a simple but scientifically proven meditation method
			known as Sahaja Yoga. More Infomation Health 
			benefits of Sahaja Yoga Times of 
		India article on Shri Mataji's Stress Reduction Lecture Seminar on Sahaja Yoga at the National Institute of Health, 
		Washington DC Research 
		on water charged with Divine vibrations Sahaja Yoga in the workplace: a practical story about how Sahaja Yoga can 
		improve the working environment Dr. Rai's presentation detailed how Sahaja Yoga meditation and the clearing
			of subtle energy centers could prevent and cure High Blood Pressure and
			Ischaemic Heart disease, Bronchial Asthma, Idiopathic Epilepsy, Migraine and
			a host of other psychosomatic diseases. Talking about the role of Sahaja
			Yoga in Cancer, Prof. Rai said that Sahaja Yoga Meditation makes our immune
			system stronger and thereby could prevent the occurrence of cancer in human
			beings. Many cases of cancer have been healed and the life span of cancer
			patients prolonged as compared to a group where no Sahaja Yoga support was
			available. Prof. Rai is treating cases of incurable diseases from all over the world at
			the International Research and Health Center, New Bombay, India with
			remarkable success. The center is unique in the world, diagnosing and
			treating patients by Vibratory Awareness, a subtle understanding developed
			through Sahaja Yoga meditation, of the energies which underlie the
			functioning of the body's various systems. Prof. Rai also showed a video
			recording of interview with patients from USA, UK, Mexico, Germany, Brazil,
			Russia, India  etc. who were treated at the center and were healed. Sahaja 
			Yoga which founded in 1970 by Dr. Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi, awakens a
			dormant primordial energy located at the base of the spine for the purpose of 
			healing mind, body, and spirit. The daily ten minute meditation program is 
			currently practiced in over 75 countries with dramatic, clinically tested 
			results. "This is a breakthrough for the cure of psychosomatic diseases and, more
			importantly, it is a culminating step in our spiritual ascent to cosmic
			consciousness" explained Dr. Rai who is Emeritus Professor at Mahatma Gandhi
			Mission Medical College, New Bombay and
			also the Director of the International Sahaja Yoga Research and Health
			Center, New Bombay, India founded in 1996 by Dr. Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi.
			Dr. Rai also explained that Sahaja Yoga is offered without any charge. "It's
			impossible to put a dollar value on an energy which already belongs to us",
			said Dr. Rai. "This is an ancient knowledge and by practicing it we can
			achieve physical, mental, social, and spiritual health as defined by the
			World Health Organization", he concluded. NIH host, George Patrick, Ph.D,
			Chief of Recreational and Rehabilitation Therapy, thanked Dr. U.C. Rai for
			his excellent presentation and explained why Sahaja Yoga, besides tackling
			health problems from stress to cardiovascular disease, was important to the
			work of the research giant. Calling Sahaja Yoga "complimentary medicine",
			Dr. Patrick spoke of the NIH's understanding of the necessity to continue
			studying the mind-body effect in healing and introducing effective new
			methods. "NIH believes in energy medicine and complimentary medicines and
			sees the powerful role of spirituality in the healing process. Sahaja Yoga
			is fine for prevention and good health", he said. "Sometimes healing doesn't
			necessarily mean a cure, but it does mean making people whole. Sahaja Yoga
			helps that process along and we like what we see", he concluded. back to top Medical benefits of Sahaja Yoga Among 
			the many trends in alternative medicine, groundbreaking research
			brings to the forefront of the scientific community a revolutionary and
			truly holistic method: Sahaja Yoga. Its benefits have been confirmed by many
			clinical case studies and experiments in Asia, Australia and Europe. This
			unique approach is now available to the American medical world as a viable
			and verifiable answer to some complex maladies facing modern medicine. Sahaja Yoga is a cognitive therapy as well as curative breakthrough: It enables the individuals to intervene on the central nervous system and
			the state of their centers and channels of energy (chakras). It gives access to a subtle form of energy, kundalini. This energy can be
			accessed through almost effortless, natural techniques to bring balance and
			health in one is mind, body, and emotions. It raises the human awareness to a new dimension of collective
			consciousness which enables the individual to feel the energetic state of
			another person and help in improving it. Some of the research confirmed benefits of Sahaja Yoga: Improved physical, mental and emotional health Stress management Positive role in prevention of cardiovascular diseases Treatment of epilepsy, high blood pressure, and bronchial asthma back to top About the Keynote Speaker Keynote speaker: Prof. Dr. U.C. Rai, MBBS, MD, FIMSA. Prof. Dr. U.C. Rai is an eminent medical physiologist in India who has spent
			three decades in the field of medical education and has earned many
			distinctions from various medical institutions of the world: Emeritus Professor at the Mahatma Gandhi Mission Medical College, Bombay Visiting Professor at Oxford University Middlesex Hospital Medical School, London Cardiovascular Department, Leeds University Institute of Brain Research, Zurich WHO Fellow Fellow of the International Medical Science Academy Vladimir Vernidzky Award from the Russian Scientific Research Center of
			Traditional Natural Medicine Dr. Rai has been doing research on holistic healthcare through Sahaja Yoga
			for the last 12 years, and has delivered several lectures on this method all
			over the world. back to top Sponsorship Co-sponsors include NIH Recreation and Welfare Association and the
			Rehabilitation Medicine Department of the Clinical Center, and Vishwa
			Nirmala Dharma (a non-profit organization supporting Sahaja Yoga). back to top Home | Sahaja Yoga Locations Worldwide | Contact Us | Site Map © 2005 Vishwa Nirmala Dharma (a non-profit organization section 501(C)(3)) 