
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 21:47:55 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 20:47:55 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
X-Pad: avoid browser bug

Coping with Migraines - How One Person is Coping with Migraines About.com Health Headaches & Migraines Headaches & Migraines Search Headaches / Migraine Symptoms/Diagnosis Treatment Coping Share Discuss in my forum Readers Respond: Personal Experiences to Share with Other Migraine Sufferers Responses: 6 From Mark Foley, D.O. , former About.com Guide Updated June 18, 2009 This content is not monitored by About.com's Medical Review Board . Before acting on this information, check with your health provider. See More About: coping with migraines migraine headaches personal experiences From the article: Coping with Migraines Everyone has very different experiences in dealing with migraines. For example, some people need to find a quiet, dark room and lie down for a while. Others may find that meditating can be helpful. What is one piece of advice you would like to share with others who are having difficulties? How have you learned to cope and lead a productive life? Vitamins & Minerals I have had migraine for 20 years now. I have tried all sorts of treatments, from propanolol to acupuncture (none worked). I found an orthomolecular doctor who check my vitamin and minerals' blood levels and food intolerances. Main problems turned out to be: wheat and egg intolerant; vitamins D, B6, magnesium, folic acid were low. I have been following a diet (less wheat and eggs) and taking specific vitamin supplements for 2 years now. The improvement is amazing. I still get migraines but less frequently and not so strong. I function much beter now! —Guest MES Med Regime To Ms. Guest Marjorie I know all about those meds, and they work. But my drs. want me off that much med. How do you tolerate so much without getting sick or having side effects? —Guest Guest  Ly Call it coping if you will I have to take Relpax, get an ice pack, and find a dark, quiet place removed from everyone. Most of the time, that works. I'd love to find something more effective and less isolating; it's hard on my husband and kids since I get these 2-3 times a week. —TeresaMarie615 Ms I'm on a great med regime that has all but eliminated my HAs. I take depakote and nadolol daily as preventative and maxalt that dissolves on my tongue when I feel a HA coming on. If these fail which is now infrequently, I take imitrex shot. See a HA specialist if your regular md doesn't know anything about these drugs for HAs. —Guest Marjorie Migraine Relaxation Strategies Some of the best coping mechanisms of dealing with migraines are :  watching a humorous movie, listening to relaxing music, become an avid nature enthusiast (enjoy bird watching as a hobby), try massage therapy with very gentle scalp touches, and purchase the best pillow on the market (they even have cool touch ones nowadays). —Guest Jo Morning Migraines I would consistently go to bed without a migraine, but would wake with one. It took about a year to figure out it was due to hypoglycemia. I had tried pretty much anything else I could--food allergies, acupuncture, naturopath, debilitating drugs for prevention, diet, pillows, bedding, dust and dander, etc. You name it, probably tried it. I found out that my blood sugar would drop to the 80s (which is still normal) and trigger the headache which turned to a migraine. My body seems to like it above 100 or the headaches will set in. I have problems with proteins due to food allergies and some of the protein shakes have a diuretic in them. 
So, my resolve to keep them away and wake up migraine free is to drink a natural fruit juice with about 16g of sugar before bed and I will wake up, or set the alarm as a backup, to get up at 2:30am to do an additional 16g to carry me through to the 5:30am wake up alarm.
Too bad I lost so much in wages to find this out. —BrettRa Related Articles Flintstones Vitamins Don't Cut It Anymore - Healthy College Cooking Calories - How Many Calories Do I Need Today - Calorie Calculator Bodybuilding Supplements - Bodybuilding Supplementation Basics Your Daily Weight Loss Tip! Children and Vitamins - Should Children Take Vitamins Related Searches relaxation strategies vitamin and minerals vitamins minerals life vitamins coping mechanisms propanolol Explore Headaches & Migraines Must Reads Understanding Headaches Is it a Migraine? Are Migraines Preventable? Treating Your Headache or Migraine Coping With Headaches and Migraines Most Popular Ice Pick Headaches Head pain and orgasm dehydration_and_headaches_does Migraine, Tension, What? Migraine Aura See More About: coping with migraines migraine headaches personal experiences By Category Headache Basics Types of Headaches Diagnosis of Headaches Headache Treatment Coping With Headaches Migraines Resources Glossary Headaches & Migraines About.com Health Headaches & Migraines Coping With Headaches Coping with Migraines - How One Person is Coping with Migraines Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod