Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

GENERAL :: Rhiana Lance: What can honey do for you? :: bath4u.com bath4u.com home | index | What can honey do to you What Can Honey Do To You? by Riana Lance If you feel exhausted and want something fresh to release all your fatigue, why don't you take a teaspoonful of honey and add to your tea, then drink it. You are going to feel better then. It's not difficult to find honey as it is easy to get and available everywhere in the market. In fact, honey has been a part of the commodity in the ancient centuries. They used honey for different purposes such as for health treatment, food and beverage, and other useful matters. Nobody has doubts about the usefulness of this sweet viscous fluid produced by bees. Honey makes a good alternative to sugar in food and beverages. Honey is a source of nutrition. It contains many enzymes, vitamins, minerals and amino acids, as well as fructose, glucose, and water. In addition, honey also contains antioxidants that can fight free radical from human body. Free radical are molecules that attack human healthy cells. Current research on honey has shown its beneficial as an antimicrobial agent that can treat different kinds of ailments. The most common use of honey as an antimicrobial agent is to treat wounds, burns and skin ulcers. Honey can also help seasonal pollen allergies. Consuming a teaspoonful of honey a day for a few months can boost your immune system before the allergy season (mostly during autumn) comes. Thanks to the bees, people can taste the sweetness of honey and take the benefits out of it to improve human's health. Probably bees are the most helpful insect to human as they produce not only honey, but also something related to honey. Let's see what they are: Royal Jelly - This is the most nutritious food for the queen bees throughout her life. Luckily, human can take out and consume some of it. Its tastes a little bit bitter, but has so many benefits. It's rich in vitamins, minerals, proteins, amino acid and antibiotic. It can enhance immunity; prevent arthritis and multiple sclerosis; treat asthma; slow down the signs of aging; stimulate hair growth etc. Beeswax - It's a product from the abdomen of the worker bees. Worker bees have some glands on the inner sides of the ventral shield or plate of each segment of the body. The beeswax is useful to make lipstick, capsule, balm, body lotion, candles or as a wood polish or floor polish. Bee Pollen - It's the male seed of a flower blossom that is gathered by the bees. Whoever consumes bee pollen may have more vitality in life. Most athletes like bee pollen because it sustains and enhances their quality performances. For ordinary people, bee pollen can stimulate organs and glands, rejuvenates human body, and brings about a longer life span. As you can see, all the products "made" by the bees are beneficial for our health. Why don't you try them for your health sake? About The Author Riana Lance writes about health in some publications. Twice a week she informs her health tips and knowledge in a newsletter. Subscribe to get your free twice a week newsletters so you can stay healthy for the rest of your life from Heathifica.com . . . More Sweet Stuff The gift from the Gods A History of Chocolate . . more to come About Us | Site
  Map | Priv