
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 15:27:42 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.azithromycinuses.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Pneumonia | Azithromycin uses Azithromycin uses Home Azithromycin dosage Azithromycin and alcohol Contact Privacy Policy Azithromycin and alcohol Azithromycin dosage Azithromycin uses Comments Posts Posts Tagged ‘pneumonia’ Azithromycin uses Azithromycin Uses Azithromycin use can range from anything from an ear infection to a se xually transmitted disease. Azithromycin is what doctors use to treat many bacterial infections. The most common Azithromycin uses is to treat certain respiratory infections, such as bronchitis. Azithromycin uses also include throat infections. Instead of removing the tonsils, doctors are now trying to find ways to cure tonsillitis since it’s been proven that the tonsils serve a very important purpose. More and more doctors are prescribing Azithromycin for throat infections. Azithromycin uses also include skin infections. Cellulitis is one skin infection in which Azithromycin is used to treat. Cellulitis is a skin bacterium that usually involves swelling of the skin, red bumps on the skin, and pain. Believe it or not, cellulitis is one of the most common infections that doctors see. Because doctors know Azithromycin uses, they will prescribe it for cellulitis with the expectation of seeing great results if the patient uses it the way it’s prescribed. Azithromycin uses also include treating more serious infections such as pneumonia. Pneumonia is a infection found in the lungs. Pneumonia is caused by certain types of bacteria or fungus. Azithromycin is used the same way to treat pneumonia, as it’s used for all other types of bacterial infections. It attacks the bacteria and stops it from growing in the body. Azithromycin uses have proven to be helpful in many medical cases. There are even some cases where it’s been known to treat infections that aren’t bacterial. There have also been cases where doctors have prescribed Azithromycin uses for other conditions. This is called “off-label” use. Some “off-label” Azithromycin uses includes treating things such as acne, whopping cough which is when a person has a severe coughing spell and can’t seem to stop. Azithromycin uses also include treating some HIV patients, an even cat scratches. Azithromycin has also been approved to treat both children and adults. Of course the dosage would vary from children to adults.  Azithromycin uses should be discussed thoroughly with your doctor. Your doctor will need information such as pregnancy or breastfeeding. Even though the Azithromycin uses are good for many different infections, it could be harmful if your doctor isn’t aware of any medical condition you may have. This is why having an open and honest relationship with your doctor at drug rehabilitation centers is very important. When it comes to taking medications such as Azithromycin, and any other medicine your doctor will need all the information they can get so that they prescribe medicine that will help you, and not harm you. Azithromycin uses have a very good track record of not only getting rid of the unwanted bacteria in the body, but it works pretty fast. Most of the tablets are rapid release so that it can get to work right away. Azithromycin also stays in the body for an extended period of time, which means hours after you’ve taken it, it’s still working to heal your body. For this reason, many doctors prescribe Azithromycin when their patients come in with infections involving bacteria in the body. 1 comment - What do you think? Posted by
			Azithromycin uses						 - 
			December 9, 2011 at 5:25 am Categories: Azithromycin and alcohol , Azithromycin dosage , Azithromycin uses Tags: azithromycin , bacterium , bronchitis , cat scratches , cellulitis , ear infection , even cat , expectation , fungus , hiv patients , medical cases , pneumonia , red bumps , respiratory infections , skin infection , skin infections , throat infections , types of bacteria , types of bacterial infections , whopping cough Pages Azithromycin and alcohol Azithromycin dosage Contact Privacy Policy Recent Posts What is Azithromycin used for ? Azithromycin uses Categories Azithromycin and alcohol Azithromycin dosage Azithromycin u