
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:12:47 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 17:29:22 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Amrix Uses eMedTV Sitemap Back Pain Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Back Pain Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Back Pain Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Back Pain Articles Video eMedTV Video Back Pain Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Back Pain Sciatica Lower Back Pain Spinal Stenosis Whiplash Piriformis Syndrome Lower Back Pain Relief Back Exercises Back Surgery Back Pain Treatment Flexeril Sciatica Symptoms Ultracet Skelaxin Endocet Ultram Hydrocodone Oxycodone Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Amrix Uses Amrix is used for relieving muscle spasms caused by injury or other muscle problems. It comes in an extended-release capsule that prolongs the effects of the medication and is currently the only muscle relaxant approved for once-daily use. Healthcare providers may occasionally recommend off-label Amrix uses as well, such as for treating fibromyalgia pain and for helping people sleep. Amrix Drug Information What Is Amrix Used For? Amrix ® ( cyclobenzaprine ER ) is a prescription medication used to treat muscle spasms. It is a long-acting muscle relaxant that is taken just once a day. Currently, it is the first and only muscle relaxant approved for once-daily use. Muscle spasms are involuntary contractions of muscles. Muscle spasms can cause stiffness, pain, and tenderness. Muscle spasms are a frequent cause of back pain , and sometimes muscles spasms in the neck can cause headaches . Typically, muscle spasms are caused by overuse, injury, or similar problems (like sleeping in a strange position). Amrix usually works quite well for these types of muscle spasms. However, some people have muscle spasms due to problems in the brain or spinal cord, such as with cerebral palsy or spinal cord injury. Amrix is not very effective for these types of muscle spasms. Amrix is approved for short-term use, generally for only two to three weeks at a time. This should be adequate time to allow any muscle injury or damage to heal. If you feel that the problem has not sufficiently improved after two or three weeks, check with your healthcare provider. You may have an ongoing problem that needs to be treated differently. Amrix is not approved for use in elderly individuals (those older than 65 years of age), as studies suggest that elderly people cannot clear Amrix from the body as well as younger people. Amrix Uses Article Continues on Next Page > Advertisement List of references (click here) Amrix [package insert]. Frazer, PA: Cephalon, Inc.;2007 October. Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD Advertisement Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation Amrix Amrix Side Effects Amrix and Dry Mouth Amrix Dosage Amrix Interactions Amrix Warnings and Precautions Amrix Overdose Amrix and Pregnancy Amrix and Breastfeeding Generic Amrix Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t