
spider and varicose veins - full text PDF and HTML Spider
    and Varicose  Veins Info Naturale Clinic I - São Paulo Av. Moema , 87 cj 51-52 Moema – São Paulo Parking : Al. dos Jurupis 452 phone: 55 11 50511075 Naturale Clinic II - Limeira Avenida Antonio Ometto, 525 Limeira – São Paulo Phone 55 19 34538490 Português Français Informations about  varicose and spider veins for patients and health professionals Informações sobre varizes para pacientes e profissionais de saúde Information à propos des varices  et des télangiectasies pour patients et profissionnelles de la santé HOME The Clinic Doctors Appointments Hospitals Email Aesthetic News Search What are? Types Why Appear? Complications Prevention FAQ Face Spider Veins Treatments Sclerotherapy Cryosclerotherapy LASER Microsurgery LASER Surgery Surgery CTV- Maintenance Face Spider Veins- Treat. Full Text Research Medical History Medical Area References HTML
                Text Part 1 - What is varicose and spider veins HTML Text Part 2 - Complications,
                  preventions and FAQ HTML Text Part 3 -Treatments PDF
              Text Part 2 The Complications
      of the Varicose Veins We call Type 4 or CVD - Complicated
        Venous Disease all of the situations where complications have already
        happened. The most frequent complications are Trombophebitis, the Leg
        Ulcers, Hyper-pigmentations , the Venous Eczema, the Bleeding, Fibrosis,
        the Ocre Dermatitis, the Infections, the Pain, and the Clot of Lung. They are usually patients who have had
      this problem for a very long time. All these types follow an evolution, but it does not mean that one
      type will necessarily evolute to the other. The varicose veins always
      get worse, but each patient will have a different history and it doesn't
      mean, although it is possible, that the type 1 will turn into type 4. Trombophlebitis The blood should flow inside of
        the vases, without interruptions. However, when a bleeding happens as in an accident or caused by some disease,
      or even a controlled bleeding as the ones of any surgery, the body tries
      to protect itself and control this situation that causes a risk of death.
      The most important is the coagulation system. The coagulation then is a
      good thing, when it happens for protection. But in certain situations this
      coagulation system can malfunction and cause serious problems. When a vein has sick walls, as in
        the varicose veins, or if the system that makes the blood flow, the venous pump of the calf is working
      poorly, as in forced rests because of diseases or in long trips, the
      Venous Thrombosis can happen. The Venous Thrombosis can be superficial
        or deep. The superficial happens in the vases of the surface of the member
      and the deep in the internal vases of the leg . Superficial Trombophlebitis The venous thrombosis can have several
        causes, and among them, the Varicose Veins. When the coagulation of the blood
      inside the superficial veins happens, it is called Superficial Trombophlebitis. When the veins of the members are
        extensive, as in the varicose veins, the whole process of flow of the
        blood is in jeopardy. We can say, in a simple way, that when the blood
        doesn't have a good flow in vein,
      it tends to coagulate, forming a clot (the thrombus) inside the vein. The
      superficial thrombophlebitis is one of the complications of the varicose
      veins. A coagulation inside the vase happens, interrupting the circulation
      as if it was a cork. The patient complains about pain, redness and swelling in the varicose
      veins. The Superficial Venous Thrombosis has an effective treatment,
      but the great problem is that, although rarely, the clot can progress
      through the superficial veins to the deep veins. It can also, starting
      from the deep veins or through great superficial veins, release small pieces
      of coagulated blood, the embolus. The embolus can, through the circulation, reach the lung. It stops
      there, impeding the circulation to happen and putting the life in risk.
      The progression of a Thrombus to the lung is called the Clot
      of Lung or Pulmonary Embolism. Deep Venous Thrombosis The Deep Venous Thrombosis, or DVT,
        is a fearsome occurrence, because it puts in risk the patient's life. Several are its causes, and one
      of them is the presence of Varicose Veins of Lower Extremities. It is a
      serious disease that is characterized by the formation of clots inside
      the deep veins of the leg. One of its main consequences in a short
      term is the Clot of Lung which can lead to death, prolong or
      complicate hospitalization after a surgery or even make the individual
      disabled for certain social activities and work, when it causes sequelae. The pos-phlebitic syndrome can happen some years after DVT. It is
      characterized by swelling, dark coloration and hardening of the skin, eczema
      (chronic allergy of the skin) and ulcers (wounds) due to the alterations
      and scars left by DVT in the venous system. Certain people have risk
      factors for this disease. There are certain situations that can cause the
      disease; they are the risk situations. The individual factors and risk
      situations can characterize the patient as being in the risk group for
      the development of the disease. This risk is called Thromboembolic
      Risk . We can mention as main individual
        risk factors for DVT, besides the varicose veins: people older than 40 years old, obesity, individuals who have already
      had thrombosis, the use of contraceptives and therapy of hormonal replacement,
      neoplasy, pregnancy and puerperal period, individuals with genetic
      abnormality of the coagulation system, traumatisms, surgeries, immobilization
      for long periods, hospitalization, diseases of the heart or lungs,
      and serious infections. Pulmonary Embolism The Lung Clots happens when a piece
        of the clot that was formed inside the deep veins of the leg is released
        and reaches the blood vessels
      of the lungs. Depending on the size of the clot, the person cannot survive.
      In the case of varicose veins, although it can happen, the Pulmonary
      Embolism is a rare occurrence. Dermatitis Ocre The difficulty that the blood has
        to return to the heart in the cases of varicose veins, ends up in stasis
        and swelling . The swelling and
      stasis cause a series of alterations in the lower extremities, mainly
      in the more distal part. The migration to the skin of elements of
      the blood happens, and they stay in places where they should not be. The
      presence of iron, derived of the hemoglobin of the blood, gives the
      skin of the leg or the ankle a dark and rusty aspect, called "Dermatitis Ocre." Eczema Blood stasis also causes the
        inflammation of the skin, resulting in a venous eczema. The skin itches,
        peels and swells. It is an unpleasant and inconvenient problem caused
      by the varicose veins. Varicose Ulcer It is a difficult to control complication
        of the varicose veins. Furthermore, it is an unpleasant condition. The Venous Ulcer appears after a long
      evolution of the varicose veins. It is a wound, that can have a great
      extension, reaching a great part of the individual's leg. Bleeding The Bleeding is a serious complication
        that happens when the varicose
      vein increases so much of size, that breaks the skin that recovers
      the vein and perforates it, causing a profuse bleeding. Swelling It is a sign of venous stasis. The
        individual's lower extremities are swollen, mainly in the end of the
      day. Pain Usually the patients with varicose
        veins complain about pain in the lower extremities associated with the
        weight and fatigue sensation that gets worse with the heat. Other factors
        may cause pain, such as sitting or standing for very long periods of
        time during the day, being, therefore, more intense in the end of the afternoon. In the women those uncomfortable
      symptoms tend to get worse in the premenstrual period and pregnancy.
      Associated with these symptoms, people usually complain about itching,
      tingling, heat, cramps, and the swelling of the ankles and lower extremities.
      These symptoms are proportional to the amount of varicose veins. The order in which the complications appear In a large number of patients, the
        varicose veins can be present for
      many years without complications, but the treatment should not be postponed,
      because the complications can take many years to appear, When they finally
      appear in a more advanced age, the effective treatment cannot be established
      anymore. In the beginning of the evolution
        of the Varicose Veins of lower extremities, it is observed the weight
        sensation or fatigue in the end of the day. The visible varicose veins
        of several sizes appear slowly. The edema begins to appear in the end
        of the day. After there is the pigmentation (dermatitis ocre) and eczemas may appear.
        In evolution of the disease, Trombophlebitis, ulcers and bleeding may
      occur . Prevention We should remind that the varicose
        veins are a chronic problem that depends
      on hereditary factors. This tendency will accompany the patient for
      his lifetime. We cannot speak in cure for varicose veins, but in control.
      Using the approach of the Continuous Treatment for Varicose Veins, we can
      promise that the primary varicose veins won't be neither an aesthetic nor
      a health problem for the patient. Some preventive measures can be
      used to lessen the tendency of have varicose veins. These measures are
      going to be described and I'm going to explain how they work. Elastic stockings: they are the
        main preventive measure. They act deviating, through the communicating
        veins, the blood of the superficial veins where the varicose veins are
        formed, to the deep veins, where varicose veins do not exist. The people
        with important hereditary tendency and the ones who sit or stand up for
        a long time for professional reasons should wear elastic stockings. These
        medicinal stockings, although they seem simple, must be prescribed by
        a specialist. The correct stockings have to
      be used, according to the disease presented by each person. We've found
      many mistakes related to the usage of medicinal stockings without medical
      orientation. Avoid the sun and
        the heat: The
        sun, sauna, and very hot and long baths cause the heating of the
        skin and the flow of a larger amount of blood to the vases of the skin.
        If a larger amount of blood flows in the superficial vases, they get
        used to that and dilate. The heat is a factor that favors the emergence
      of vases in the people that are predisposed to have this problems. Effective measures include avoiding
        sauna, very hot and long baths, and the
      sun on the beach. When exposed to the heat of the beach or in the
      swimming pool, people have to be sure to enter the water every 15
      or 20 minutes to avoid the heating of the leg. Sunbathing should be
      avoided and never happen after 10 o'clock a.m., when the harmful sun beams
      are more frequent. Avoid overweight: The weight excess
        overloads the circulation and causes varicose veins. To have good nutritional
        habits is healthy for the whole body. The weight excess also causes cellulite,
        which is associated with the microvarices and telangiectasies (spider
      veins). Do exercises: The exercises improve
        the muscular strengthen of the leg and, therefore they improve the return
        circulation. The best ones are walking, running
      and swimming. Avoid the use of
        hormonal contraceptives: The feminine hormones (pills, menopause treatment, hormonal replacement) keep
        liquids and they increase the pressure inside of the veins. They also
        soften the walls of the vases and they are some of the main factors that
      cause varicose veins. Avoid sitting or
        standing for a long time: As already seen, the varicose veins appear when people stand
        or sit and they don't appear when people are laying or in movement. When, for professional or social reasons
      it is necessary to be sit or stand for a long time (at work, in parties,
      in long trips), we should move the feet, as if we were accelerating a car.
      This movement of the ankle, called back-flexing, makes the musculature
      of the calf to contract rhythmically, putting the "outlying heart" in
      action. That makes the circulation work and avoids varicose veins. High heels : there was a myth that
        high heels were harmful. But recent
      researches carried out by the State University of Campinas showed that high
      heels are not only not harmful, but can be beneficial. Varicose veins of lower extremities
        are a very frequent problem, that affects most of the women and many men too. Maybe it is one of
      the diseases that, although it is common, is the most ignored by the
      people. The lack of information and the prejudice against the disease is
      evident: from the confusion in relation to the heart surgery, where the "bypass
      operation" is confused with Saphenectomy, that is a type of varicose
      veins surgery, until the wrong concept that it is not worth to
      treat the varicose veins, because varicose veins will appear after some
      time again. Questions and answers about varicose
      veins Do internal varicose veins exist? They don't exist. The internal or
        deep veins are protected by the musculature that impedes their dilation.
        What really exists are other serious diseases that affect the internal veins, but not the varicose veins. Even though
      the superficial veins are inside the fat tissue, that doesn't protect
      them and that's where the varicose veins appear. Can the varicose veins, the microvarices
      and the telangiectasies happen altogether? Yes. They are signs of the same
        disease. In short: it is the increased pressure inside the veins, caused by alterations in the valves, resulting
      in an inverted blood flow, causing the dilation of the superficial
      veins. This happens due to a hereditary tendency and it is worsened
      by several factors. The veins are present in the lower extremities since
      the birth, but they don't get attention. When the dilation happens
      as a result of the disease, they become visible and unaesthetic. Do varicose veins appear again after some time? No. Other varicose veins may appear
        and they should be treated. A
      person who has the vesicle or the appendix operated will never have
      problems in these places again because there is only one appendix and only
      one vesicle. The veins, on the other hand, will always exist. It is not
      possible to remove all of them. A vein that was normal in the moment of
      a treatment can become sick later, because the hereditary tendency
      will exist during all the lifetime. This fact doesn't invalidate the treatments,
      because if the varicose veins are not treated, they can lead to serious
      complications in the future. For this reason, the Continuous Treatment
      of Varicose veins was designed to control the aesthetic problem and the
      disease as they appear. Can the superficial veins be removed
      without causing problems? Yes. The veins that really matter are the deep veins, they are the responsible
      for the venous circulation. The superficial veins can be treated or removed
      without any consequence for the body. I s there a "cure" for
      the varicose veins of the lower extremities? The varicose veins of the lower
        extremities are a chronic disease that depends on a hereditary tendency
        and on aggravating factors. Since it's linked to the hereditariness,
        we cannot speak about "curing" the
      varicose veins, because the tendency will always be present and new varicose
      veins may appear during the life of the individual. However, this
      disease may be controlled and the people can live their life without the
      health and aesthetic problem of varicose veins. We can say that, nowadays,
      only the people who want to have varicose veins will have them. The medicine
      has modern and simple techniques that control the problem with
      great functional results. HTML Text Part 1 - What is varicose and
          spider veins HTML Text Part 2 - Complications, preventions
          and FAQ HTML Text Part 3 -Treatments This site  follows Principles of Ethic code for health sites on Internet.  The medical information provided in this site  is for education/information purposes only. Nor all the procedures presented in  this site is  performed  at Naturale Clinic. The information provided  on this site is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists  between a patient and  physician. Photos  and Drawings are for information purposes only. If you have a medical problem,  please contact your Doctor or Health Care Professional. This site is produced  by  Naturale Clinic’ s Doctors  and does not receive funding or advertisements  of any other company or person.  Content  copyright © 2002- 2008  Naturale Clinic .  All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of any content is  expressly prohib