MS-Author-Via: DAV
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Division of Health Sciences, University of Otago Home > News
    & Events > Otago Magazine Articles PVC's Welcome About Health Sciences Contacts Courses & Subjects News & Events Features Media Releases Pulse Newsletter What's On? Publications Research Schools & Departments Seminars & Conferences Staff Expertise Probiotic reduces eczema Otago  Magazine, Issue 22: February 2009 Research by Professor Julian Crane (Department of Medicine,  Wellington) and colleagues in Auckland may help to prevent eczema in young  children. They have found that giving a probiotic supplement, L. rhamnosus, to pregnant women and babies reduces the rate  of childhood eczema by 50 per cent at the age of two. Professor Julian Crane and Dr Kristin Wickens: “… it shows that the beneficial effects of probiotics vary considerably depending on which probiotic is used.” “This is an exciting and  interesting result because we’ve compared the effect of two different  probiotics in the same study and show that one has an effect while the other [ Bifidobacterium lactis ] is no different from placebo,” he says. “This is important  because it shows that the beneficial effects of probiotics vary considerably  depending on which probiotic is used.” The skin disease eczema affects  30 per cent of infants in New Zealand by the age of two. Severity varies from a  small patch of scaly dry skin to large weeping areas covering much of a child’s  body. There is no way to prevent it, and treatment relies on skin moisturising  and corticosteroid creams. The prevalence of eczema is increasing, although the  reasons are not clear. Probiotics are  naturally-occurring microbes found in the intestines of infants but, in recent  years, their natural occurrence has decreased, which may explain why there has  been an increase in eczema. It is not known how they work.  One theory is that they alter an infant’s developing immune system in a way  that reduces allergy; another is that some probiotics may alter the early  infant intestine so that allergens cannot pass so easily into the circulation  and set up allergic reactions. ^ Top
                of Page | Contact
                Us | Feedbac