<< REEVES MEDICAL LIBRARY LIFELINE RESIDENCY PROGRAMS Cottage Health System 400 West Pueblo Street Santa Barbara, CA 93105 805.682.7111 Diseases & Conditions << Conditions InDepth Procedures Women Men Seniors Kids & Teens Health Tools Medical Cabinet Print | SEARCH | Send-to-Friend <<  Health Info Home <<  Información de la Salud Common Cold En Español (Spanish Version) More InDepth Information on This Condition Definition The common cold is an infection that can irritate your upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Sore Throat Due to Inflammation © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes The common cold is caused by a virus. There are over 200 different viruses that can cause a cold, including: Rhinovirus Corona virus Adenovirus Coxsackie virus Paramyxovirus Parainfluenza virus Respiratory syncytial virus Risk Factors A risk factor is something that increases your chance of getting a disease or condition. Risk factors for a cold are: Being near someone who has a cold Touching your nose, mouth, or eyes with contaminated fingers Having allergies (lengthens duration of cold) Smoking or being near cigarette smoke (due to decreased resistance) Stress (due to decreased resistance) Sex: female (especially around menstrual periods) Symptoms Symptoms include: Sore or scratchy throat Stuffy nose (hard to breathe through your nose) Runny nose Sneezing Itchy, stuffed sensation in the ears Watery eyes Slight cough Headache Aches and pains Low  energy Low-grade fever Diagnosis The diagnosis is usually based on your symptoms. Treatment A cold usually lasts more than 10 days. There are no cures for a cold. But  there are treatments that can relieve your symptoms, including: Home Care Stay hydrated.—Drinks lots of fluids. Warm beverages, like tea, and chicken soup are soothing and help reduce congestion. Use a humidifier.—A cool-mist humidifier can keep your nasal passages moist and reduce congestion. Be sure to clean the humidifier every day. Gargle.—Gargling with warm salt water can help relieve a sore throat. Over-the-Counter Products Pain Relievers You can take these for aches and pains, as well as fever: Acetaminophen (Tylenol) Ibuprofen (Motrin) Aspirin Note : Aspirin is not recommended for children or teens with a current or 
recent viral infection. This is because of the risk of Reye's 
syndrome . Ask your doctor which other medicines are safe for your child. Decongestants Pills or nasal sprays can shrink nasal passages and decrease mucus production. Nasal sprays should only be used for 2-3 days. If you use them longer, you may have  increased congestion when you stop using the product. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends that over-the-counter (OTC) cough and cold products should not be used for infants or children less than two years old. Rare but serious side effects have been reported, including: Rapid heart rates Convulsions Decreased levels of consciousness Death OTC cough and cold products include: Decongestants Expectorants Antihistamines Antitussives (cough suppressants) Other Products Saline nasal sprays—These non-medicated sprays may provide relief from congestion. Nasal wash may reduce symptoms, medicine use, and school absence. Throat lozenges—These are needed every couple of hours to help relieve sore throat and cough. Vapor rub—This is a topical ointment that contains camphor, menthol, and eucalyptus oils. Vapor rub can be applied to the neck and chest. It may help to relieve nighttime symptoms in children older than two years. Alternative Treatments Many people use alternative treatments to relieve their cold symptoms.  Some of the more popular choices include: Vitamin C —Taking extra vitamin C at the start of a cold has not been shown to be of any benefit.  Taking 1,000 mg daily throughout the cold season may, however, help reduce symptoms or shorten how long the cold lasts. Zinc lozenges—People who take zinc lozenges at the start of a cold may be able to reduce symptoms. Echinacea —Echinacea may help people to recover faster from a cold. But, there is little evidence that it can prevent colds if taken in advance. Honey —While honey has not been shown to affect the severity or length of a common cold, it may improve nighttime cough and sleep disruption in children. Do not give honey to infants younger than 12 months because of the risk of
            infant botulism. Other herb preparations include: Pelargonium sidoides —This herb may improve symptoms and speed recovery. BE It is the main ingredient in products like Umcka ColdCare and Zucol. Andrographis paniculata —This herb may also improve symptoms and speed recovery. BE It is found in a products like KalmCold and Kan Jang tablets. Note: Some herbal treatments may not be pure, and many can interact with prescription medicines and over-the-counter products. Talk to your doctor if you are thinking of using herbs to treat a cold. Prevention The most important way to keep from getting or spreading a cold is by washing your hands. Wash your hands well and often. Other ways to keep from getting a cold: Keep your hands away from your nose, mouth, and eyes. Stay away from people who have a cold. If you smoke, stop or cut down on smoking. Ask your doctor if taking a daily zinc supplement may be helpful for you. Zinc may reduce your chance of getting a cold. Some people take
            vitamin C
            to keep from getting a cold. BE = These therapies have the best evidence available showing that they are effective. RESOURCES: American Academy of Family Physicians http://www.aafp.org/ American Lung Association http://www.lungusa.org/ CANADIAN RESOURCES: Health Canada http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/index-eng.php Healthy U http://www.healthyalberta.com/ References: Colds and flu. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated August 1, 2010. Accessed August 6, 2010. Common cold. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases website. Available at: http://www3.niaid.nih.gov/topics/commonCold/default.htm .
        Updated December 2007. Accessed July 9, 2009. Dambro MR, Griffith JA. Griffith's 5-Minute Clinical Consult. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott, Williams, and Wilkins; 1999. Echinacea. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated August 1, 2010. Accessed January 14, 2011. Honey. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated August 1, 2010. Accessed January 14, 2011. Pelargonium sidoides. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated August 1, 2010. Accessed January 14, 2011. Vitamin C. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated December 30, 2010. Accessed January 14, 2011. Zinc. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated December 7, 2010. Accessed January 14, 2011. Upper respiratory infection (URI). DynaMed website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php . Updated March 3, 2011.  Accessed March 10, 2011. 12/4/2007 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Lizogub VG, Riley DS, Heger M. Efficacy of a pelargonium sidoides preparation in patients with the common cold: a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Explore (NY). 2007;3:573-584. 1/30/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Public health advisory:
Nonprescription cough and cold medicine use in children—FDA recommends that over-the-counter (OTC) cough and cold products not be used for infants and children under 2 years of age. US Food and Drug Administration website. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/cder/drug/advisory/cough_cold_2008.htm . Accessed January 30, 3008. 1/30/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Paul IM, Beiler J, McMonagle A, et al. Effect of honey, dextromethorphan, and no treatment on nocturnal cough and sleep quality for coughing children and their parents. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2007;161:1149-1153. 2/26/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Slapak I, Skoupá J, Strnad P, Horník P. Efficacy of isotonic nasal wash (seawater) in the treatment and prevention of rhinitis in children. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2008;134:67-74. 10/29/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Arruda E, Pitkäranta A, Witek TJ Jr, Doyle CA, Hayden FG. Frequency and natural history of rhinovirus infections in adults during autumn. J Clin Microbiol. 1997;35:2864-2868. Pappas DE, Hendley JO, Hayden FG, Winther B. Symptom profile of common colds in school-aged children. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2008;27:8-11. 8/6/2010 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Hemila H, Chalker E, Douglas B. Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Mar 17;(3):CD000980. 2/25/2011 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Sing M, Das R. Zinc for the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(2):CD001364. 7/6/2011 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance : Paul IM, Beiler JS, King TS, Clapp ER, Vallati J, Berlin CM.
Vapor rub, petrolatum, and no treatment for children with nocturnal cough and cold symptoms. Pediatrics. 2010;126(6):1092-1099. Last Reviewed September 2011 Site Map | Privacy Policy | Physician Login | 
    Cottage Health System, 400 West Pueblo Street, Santa Barbara, CA 93