Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

I. Caring for the Teeth and Gums of Children with Down Syndrome II. Early Preventive Dental Care I. Caring for the Teeth and Gums of Children with Down Syndrome II. Early Preventive Dental Care Dr. Jonathan Sierk , DDS Down's Update I. January/February 2009 Volume 26, Issue 11, p. 4 II. March/April 2009 Volume 27, Issue 2, p. 4 Reprinted with the permission of the Mile High Down Syndrome Association and of the author. I. Caring for the Teeth and Gums of Children with Down Syndrome Children with Down syndrome are at an increased risk for developing
problems with their teeth and gums. Early preventive dental care and rigorous
home hygiene will help reduce many of these problems and eliminate some
of them entirely. This article will relate the problems children can develop,
describe how Down syndrome can complicate the oral condition, and finally
instruct children and families on how to care for the teeth at home. Dental diseases Most parents are familiar with gum disease and dental cavities as the
main oral health problems that children develop. In addition to these concerns,
children with Down syndrome develop an increased number of canker sores,
oral yeast infections and destructive periodontal problems. Dental decay is the result of bacteria in our mouths converting fermentable
carbohydrates into acid, which over time creates the infected holes in our
teeth that we know as cavities. Eliminating dental decay requires restoring or
filling existing cavities and changing dietary and hygiene habits. Periodontal disease is the gradual loss of bone and supporting structures
around our teeth due to inflammation. Gum disease can cause teeth to fall
out over time if the bone and surrounding structures cannot hold the teeth
in place. Many patients with Down syndrome develop significant periodontal
problems by their teen years. Complicating factors of Down syndrome Natural cleansing of the mouth via saliva for patients with Down syndrome
can be compromised due to a dry mouth from medications or from mouth
breathing. Mouth breathing also creates more hard tartar deposits on the
teeth, which can worsen gum disease. The mouths of patients with Down syndrome tend to be smaller than
average, therefore making it harder to brush the teeth. The tongue may
seem larger, when in reality it is most likely only relatively larger due to a
small mouth. Getting the toothbrush into all areas may be more challenging
as a result. Poor muscle tone of the cheeks and tongue may also reduce the
mouth's ability to cleanse itself. Food debris can stay on the surface of teeth
longer and cause more decay if not properly cleaned off. This tendency to have a small mouth can be complicated by misshapen
teeth or an imperfect biting relationship. Crowded teeth are more difficult
to take care of and may worsen periodontal problems. Children with Down
syndrome tend to have reduced immune responses and therefore more
infections due to a lower number of T-cells. This makes them much more
susceptible to developing destructive periodontal disease. It seems to be a widely held belief that patients with Down syndrome
develop fewer dental cavities than average. Many parents have heard this and
it may be a myth based on outdated research. The thing to remember is that
the negative outcomes of these cavities may be worse for children with Down
syndrome. Clearly preventing dental problems before they start is the best
strategy for all patients. Preventive strategies for home and at the dental office
To prevent dental problems it is important to take a child to the dentist
early. The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry recommends the first
dental visit within six months of the eruption of a child's first tooth. This is
usually between ages one and two. At home, a child's teeth should be brushed at least two times a day.
Ideally, you should brush your child's teeth after breakfast and at bedtime. It
is not necessary to use toothpaste with fluoride until a child has mastered the
swallowing reflex and will not ingest the toothpaste, around age 3-5 years on
average. Depending on a child's age and development, they will need assistance
brushing their teeth. It is important to introduce to a child how they should
care for their teeth. Children with Down syndrome often benefit from using a
mechanical toothbrush to better access difficult areas of the mouth. They may
also find it more enjoyable to brush their teeth with a mechanical brush and
will consequently spend more time at it. Some children have limited fine motor
control and use of a floss holder should be considered. It is important to establish a consistent schedule for brushing and caring
for your child's teeth. You should try to use the same location and time so
children will be comfortable and make it part of their daily routine. Oral rinses should be used at home as well to reduce development of
decay and gum disease. Fluoride rinse can be sprayed or brushed on the teeth
if the child has not yet mastered the swallowing reflex. Brushing on a fluoride
rinse at night can greatly reduce the number of cavities children develop. In addition, an antimicrobial rinse such as Listerine, or chlorhexidine
by prescription, can be used to reduce the progression of gum disease.
Antimicrobial rinses should be not be used at the same time of day as
a supplemental fluoride rinse, so after the morning brushing would be
ideal. Children with Down syndrome tend to develop cracks or fissures in
their tongue and lips that house bacteria. Daily brushing of the tongue, in
conjunction with a rinse, can reduce the bacterial levels in a child's mouth. Diet modification is very important in reducing dental problems. Due to
breathing primarily through the mouth and the use of some medications,
children with Down syndrome can be dehydrated and often thirsty. You
should use sugar-free medications and vitamins whenever possible. It is also
important that your child drink plenty of water to remain hydrated, especially
in arid climates. Significant dental decay can develop if a child drinks sweetened
beverages throughout the day to quench their thirst. Sports drinks and fruit
juice can be as destructive as soda pop to the teeth, if a child's teeth and
mouth are exposed to them over long periods of time on a daily basis. Foods
high in sugar should not be used as rewards or motivational tools regularly.
All children should avoid grazing and sipping patterns of food intake to reduce
dental decay, and their caloric intake should match their level of activity. Preventive care at the dental office is important as well. Dentists treating
patients with Down syndrome should be aware of gum disease developing.
This may mean taking more frequent x-rays looking for bone loss around the
teeth, or prescribing a mouth rinse or medication to reduce inflammation of
the gums. Crowded teeth and small mouths contribute to developing orthodontic
problems. An orthodontic consultation and possible intervention may be helpful
to prevent some gum problems, or to reduce biting forces if the teeth in one
area of the mouth are being worn down unevenly due to bruxism or grinding. More frequent examinations and cleanings can help identify and prevent
problems. Dental sealants can be placed in the grooves on the biting surfaces
of teeth to prevent decay; unfortunately sealants do not prevent cavities on the
tooth surfaces between teeth. A combination of fluoride treatments, sealants
and diet modification can greatly reduce the amount of decay patients with
Down syndrome develop. Conclusion Children with Down syndrome have unique concerns that can make them
more susceptible to developing problems with their teeth and supporting
structures. Identifying and treating these concerns with aggressive preventive
therapies can help maintain a healthy mouth throughout a lifetime. II. Early Preventive Dental Care Early preventive dental care is very important to the health of children with
Down syndrome. A child's first dental visit can cause anxiety for parents, the
child and dentist alike. The purpose of this article is to explain why early dental
care is important for children with Down syndrome, to describe the typical first
dental visit for young children, and finally to give suggestions about what can
be done to make a child's initial visit to the dentist a positive experience. The purpose of early preventive care Proper care for the teeth and surrounding structures can prevent dental
problems from developing. Children with Down syndrome have unique medical
and dental concerns that make them more susceptible to diseases of the teeth
and gums. These patients tend to have reduced immune responses that can
exacerbate conditions in the oral cavity. It is important to develop good habits
early in life so they become part of the daily routine of self-care. The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry recommends that children
see a dentist within six months of the eruption of their first tooth. Early visits
to a dentist serve many purposes. The treating dentist will identify the risk of
the patient developing dental cavities and gum disease. In addition, the dentist
will instruct the patient and family in the most appropriate ways to care for
the child's teeth at home. Parents will be able to address specific concerns
they have about their child. The dentist and family will put together a plan
to address urgent dental needs and active disease. Finally, a long-term plan
for care will be implemented. Most people are instructed to visit the dentist
every six months, but this may not be appropriate for everyone. Some patients
with Down syndrome may benefit from a more frequent schedule of visits
to prevent as many dental problems from developing as possible. For these
reasons it is important that you visit a dentist that has experience treating
patients with Down syndrome. The first office visit The dentist and staff should make the patient as comfortable as possible
at a child's first visit. It is important that your dentist establish a positive
rapport with all patients before beginning an examination or treatment. This
can be difficult to accomplish with very young patients, but for older children
it can be a very effective tool to set the tone for an appointment. Often patting
a child gently on the shoulder or arm before an invasive examination of their
head and mouth can warm the patient up to having a stranger in their personal
space. Each child is unique, and their specific needs should be addressed
during their visit. Your child's teeth will be examined and probably cleaned at the first visit.
Additional services like x-rays and fluoride treatments may be accomplished,
depending on the age and cooperation level of your child. Nearly all children
under age two will require a parent to help with a dental examination.
Sometimes young patients will cooperate while in a parent's lap. But often
at an early age the parent or caregiver will need to help the dentist with
examining the child by reclining the child in their laps and holding the patient's
hands. After information has been gathered, the family and dentist will decide if
any dental treatment is needed at that time. They will discuss what medical
concerns may be interacting with the teeth and mouth and what needs to
be done, or what further tests are needed. The dentist will anticipate what
problems the patient and family may encounter in the near and long term and
counsel them on ways to deal with the concerns. Many patients with Down syndrome have a very relaxed approach to
medical settings and have positive experiences at the dental office. Often
these patients can be treated very easily in the traditional dental setting.
Usually all that is needed is a little more time and attention to make them
comfortable. The patient and dental staff will have to exercise patience with
one another to make the first visit a successful one. Preparing your child The key to positive dental visits for children with Down syndrome and children in general is to start at a young age. Patients will get more comfortable with new experiences after more exposure to them. Children with Down syndrome tend to get their teeth later than average and because of this some parents may feel that visiting the dentist is not a priority. Because the permanent teeth tend to come in later as well, it is very important to maintain the baby teeth as long as possible and early preventive care can help accomplish this. Communication between the family and dental staff is extremely
important. Often children with Down syndrome understand what they hear
better than is realized. Because their expressive language may not be as
developed as their comprehension, parents and caregivers play a critical role
in explaining their child's language skills to the dental office staff. Some parents may be apprehensive about how their child or the dentist
will react to the office situation. You should choose a dentist who has
experience working with children with Down syndrome and who has a warm
office environment to ensure the best experience possible for your child.
Because children react better to dental visits in the morning when they are
fresh, it's a good idea to schedule your child's first dental visit in the morning. Books and videos are available that can expose your child to what to
expect at the dentist's office. A calm, relaxed approach by parents and
caregivers also sets a positive tone for the appointment. Children can
sense if parents and the dental staff are uncomfortable and that may cause
some apprehension for them. Parents can calm nervous children by clearly
explaining in non-threatening language what to expect at the dental visit. For
example you can say, "The dentist will count and clean your teeth. After that,
he will take some pictures of your teeth to make sure they are healthy." If you pick the right office for your family, get your child comfortable at an
early age and schedule morning visits, the dental office does not have to be a
source of anxiety for you or your child. Planning leads to positive experience With the right planning, preparation and office environment, children with
Down syndrome can have positive initial dental visits. Early preventive dental
care must take into account the unique medical and dental concerns of all
patients. A comfortable dental environment makes for a happy patient and
allows the dentist and caregivers to focus on the medical concerns of the
patient rather than the anxiety often associated with a trip to the dentist. Dr. Sierk is a pediatric dentist in Highlands Ranch, Colorado who treats many children with Down syndrome and focuses on the unique medical concerns of these patients. He is on staff at
the Children's Hospital of Denver where he is an adjunct clinical professor. He
can be reached at (303) 865-4066 or by email at Jon@SierkPediatricDentistry.com .
com for