Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 15:25:17 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 15:26:17 GMT
Connection: close

mlns:fb="https://www.facebook.com/2008/fbml"> Compression Stockings, Socks and Support Hose - DiscountSurgical.com $0.00 (0 Item) Your shopping cart is empty My Account • Quick Reorder • Automatic Reordering About Us • Contact Us • Satisfaction Guarantee • Returns • Wholesale Prefer a printed catalog? Request a free catalog featuring our value brand compression stockings . Compression Stockings & Support Hose at Affordable Prices Medically approved graduated compression support hosiery, stockings and compression socks reduces the symptoms of varicose veins and boosts circulation for men and women. Tweet Product Finder Product Type Any Product Type Compression Stockings Exclusive Styles Arm Sleeves/Gauntlets Athletic Performance Socks Travel Socks Maternity Stockings Anti Embolism Diabetic Socks Accessories Wound Products Gender Any Gender Women's Men's Unisex Compression Level Any Compression Level Light - 8-15mmHg Medium - 15-20mmHg Firm - 20-30mmHg X-Firm - 30-40mmHg RX Support 40-50mmHg Anti Em 10-20mmHg Brand Any Brand Value Brand Jobst Juzo Sigvaris Medi TruForm MoJo Truform CEP FLA Surgical Appliance Style Any Style Knee-Hi Thigh-Hi Pantyhose Maternity Pantyhose Leggings Athletic Crew Length Ankle Length Anti Embolism (TED) Armsleeve Glove Gauntlet Men's Leotard Bandages Calf Sleeve Features Any Features Open Toe Closed Toe Short Length Long Length No Foot Control Top Dress Casual Sheer & Soft Reinforced Toe/Heel Extra Cushioning Large Toe Box Wide Calf Silicone Border Sandal Foot Right Leg Left Leg Skin sensitivities Moisture Wicking Diabetic friendly Sock Garter Style Thigh High Chaps - 1 Leg Thigh With Fly Open Crotch Petite Length Body Part A Body Part B Neropathic Men's Compression Stockings Support Socks for Men Thigh High Support Hose for Men Support Leotard for Men Men's Athletic Performance Socks Travel Socks for Men Men's Diabetic Socks Women's Compression Stockings Knee High Support Hose for Women Thigh High Support Hose for Women Support Pantyhose for Women Women's Athletic Socks Travel Socks for Women Women's Diabetic Socks Maternity Support Shop Our Catalog Enter the item SKU from our catalog Receive Our Free Catalog Our catalog features our full line of quality compression stockings at greatly discounted prices Request a free catalog » Reordering is Easy! Log in to your account and click the “Add to Cart” button next to the order you want to reorder. Your Information is Secure Account Login Email Address Password Forgot your password? Compression Stockings Shop Our Catalog I Want to Reorder Most orders over $25 ship free! Satisfaction Guaranteed Lowest Price Guarantee 1-800-982-0939 Shop by Type Compression Stockings Arm Sleeves/Gauntlets Travel Socks Diabetic Socks Athletic Performance Accessories Light Support (8-15 mmHg) Value Brand Jobst Juzo Medi Medium Support (15-20 mmHg) Value Brand Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Firm Support (20-30 mmHg) Value Brand Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Extra-Firm Support (30-40 mmHg) Value Brand Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Light Support (8-15 mmHg) Value Brand Jobst Juzo Medi Medium Support (15-20 mmHg) Value Brand Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Firm Support (20-30 mmHg) Value Brand Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Extra-Firm Support (30-40 mmHg) Value Brand Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Sigvaris Jobst Juzo Medi Truform Absolute Support - Value Brand Stockings The best value on the market! Absolute Support is not your average "Value Brand" - we take 4-6 compression measurements 
      at precise intervals between the ankle and end of garment. Multiple measurements guarantee our garments are comfortable 
      and deliver an accurate distribution of the pressure gradient. We also feature many styles not availabe from anyone else. Start Shopping Value Brand Stockings Recent Customer Reviews Overall Fit Support Socks For Men Firm 20-30 Compression Closed Toe Reviewed by ed in clearwater work great and are comfortable I was concerned on how they would fit and feel.  The fit and feel the same as my regular socks.  Also was concerned the compression would cramp my toes.  Not true no pressure on the toes at all. Overall Fit # A107 Absolute Support Sheer Knee High 8-15 mmHg Closed Toe Reviewed by Jane in Alabama About me: working secretary Light Support Knee Hi review These fit really good.  I first got the medium support but they were just too tight.  They didn't have all the colors I wanted.  And they don't seem to have them for people who have large calf's.  But I do plan to order again and see if they have more colors in. Overall Fit MoJo Unisex Recovery Socks 20-30mmhg Closed Toe Reviewed by Cindy in St. Louis MO Good fit for all day comfort I have had several leg clots, so wear support hose/socks all the time.  Bought these for wear under work clothes.  The thinner foot/ankle means they fit into work shoes and stay comfortable, and support my legs all day long.  Very please with the fit. Overall Fit Woman's Microfiber Trouser Socks Medium Support Reviewed by Lynn Hutchens in Texas About me: active, 65 with knee and foot pain Very Pleased durable, good fit and just what I wanted...went one size smaller and they fit great and are relatively easy to get on which is always an issue with support hoses Overall Fit MoJo Running Compression Socks Knee Hi  20-30mmhg Reviewed by Cindy in St Louis MO Good fit, good style! I wear compression hose all the time due to a clotting disorder.  These are a comfortable, colorful alternative to the usual plain and boring socks.  They fit well, and are comfortable for long periods of wear.  LOVE the colors! Overall Fit MoJo Sport Compression Socks 20-30mmhg Reviewed by Cindy in St. Louis MO Comfortable, supportive and colorful! Due to clotting disorder, I wear support socks/hose all the time.  These socks are fun and colorful, and also fit well, like that they are long enough for my legs.  I've worn these for horseback riding under breeches/boots and they are comfortable, keep feet dry and legs supported. Overall Fit A607 SportRX Calf Support 20-30mmHg Reviewed by Cindy in St. Louis MO Good support I have had several blood clots in legs so wear support hose/socks all the time.  Purchased to wear for variety of activities so I could continue to wear my usual shoes/boots/socks.  These are comfortable and supportive and I wear them under workout clothes, riding breeches, and to the office.  Very pleased with the fit and versatitily of these. Overall Fit Unisex Cotton Socks Medium Support 15-20mmHg Reviewed by Jack Rickert Unisex Cotton Socks Medium SUpport 15-20mmHg These support socks are literally the best I have found. I have tried others, but these are much better - for one main reason. I am 6'4", and other support socks come only 1/2 to 2/3 up my calf.  30 minutes after I have them on, they are already sliding down to my ankles. I am always having to stop and pull them up.

The brand of socks I found at your store (and re-ordered twice afterwards) go clearly over my calf, and touch the bottom of my knee cap. The wide band at the top of the sock does not permit the sock to creep over my calf on the way to my ankles. It stays put for the entire day. I work 12-hr shifts, and they don't move a bit. They also do a marvelous job of keeping the swelling down in my feet and ankles.

I will be buying some more soon, I'm sure. Please do not lose this supplier as Jobst and the otherbig-name socks don't do the job for me!

Thank you, DSS! © 2011 DiscountSurgical.com All Rights Reserved Questions? Comments? support@discountsurgical.com Help & Customer Service Home About Us Contact Us Satisfaction Guarantee Returns/Exchanges Privacy Policy Request a Catalog Absolute Support Support Socks Compression Hose Maternity Support Hose C