
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2012 18:38:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Obesity - List of Services Language Arabic Schedule An Appointment Get Directions Home Services & Facilities Our Hospitals Max Super Speciality Hospital East Wing, Saket Max Super Speciality Hospital West Wing, Saket Max Super  Speciality Hospital, Patparganj Max Hospital - Pitampura Max Hospital - Noida Max Medcentre - Panchsheel Park Max Speciality Centre - Panchsheel Park Max Hospital - Gurgaon Max Super Speciality Hospital, Shalimar Bagh Max Super Speciality Hospital, Mohali Max Super Speciality Hospital, Bathinda Care Programmes Women's Speciality Clinics Healthy Neighbourhood Programme Happy Family Programme Home Care Services NURTURE - Antenatal Programme Classes School Programme Corporate Programme Medical Education & Research Our Departments Max Heart & Vascular Institute Max Cancer Centre Max Institute of Minimal Access, Metabolic & Bariatric Surgery Max Institute of Neurosciences Max Institute of Orthopaedics & Joint Replacement Surgery Max Institute of Obstetrics & Gynaecology Max Institute of Paediatrics Max Institute of Aesthetic & Reconstructive Surgery Max Eye Care Max Dental Care Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Obesity Department of ENT Department of Mental Health & Behavioural Sciences Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Department of Nuclear Medicine Department of Lab Medicine & Transfusion Services Department of Nutrition & Dietetics Allied Specialities International Patient Services Specialities & Surgeries Aesthetic and Cosmetic Surgeries IVF and Reproductive Medicine Minimal Access, Metabolic & Bariatric (Weight loss) Surgeries Neuro surgeries/Neuro Spine Surgeries Cancer Treatment Orthopedics and Joint Replacements Heart Surgeries & Interventions Ortho Spine Surgeries Eye Care Paediatric Surgery Dental Care Get a quote/Second opinion Testimonials Health & Lifestyle Preventive Health Programme (Max 360) Our Preventive Healthcare Programme comprises a comprehensive set of tests, which have been specially designed keeping your health needs in mind Platinum Preventive Health Programme It is one of the most comprehensive and thorough health check programs in the world! Patient Education Series We have a comprehensive list of care guides to educate and help you take better care of yourself. Max Health Update Newsletter to keep you updated of the latest events at Max Healthcare and free tips on how to live a healthier life. About us Max Healthcare Our Journey Total Patient Care Chairman's Message Our Passion News Quality Initiatives, Accreditation & Awards FICCI Healthcare Excellence Awards DL Shah National Award on 'Economics of Quality' Excellence Awards - 2008 for - 'Innovative Marketing Practices' - 'Best Managed Healthcare Programme' NABH Accreditation for Blood Bank NABH NABL ISO 9001:2000 & ISO 14001:2004 Careers Contact us Services & Facilities Our Departments Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Obesity - List of Services - Health Facts - Team that Cares - International Patient Services Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Obesity All Max Hospitals MSSH (A unit of Devki Devi Foundation), Saket Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket Max Super Speciality Hospital, Patparganj Max Hospital - Pitampura Max Hospital - Noida Max Medcentre - Panchsheel Park Max Hospital - Gurgaon Max Super Speciality Hospital - Shalimar Bagh Max Super Speciality Hospital - Mohali Max Super Speciality Hospital - Bathinda Name of the doctor (if known) You’ve come to the right place! Since our inception in 2001, affordable quality healthcare has been our focus. Your well being is the most
              important aspect in our mission. You are well taken care of the moment you step on Indian soil. We are the primary choice of physicians in India, being known for our timeless
              ethical practices. As a recognised leader in quality healthcare in India,
              we are leveraging this advantage for patients the world over. How
            do we take care of you? Transfers between the airport and the hospital Currency exchange and wire transfer facility Internet connectivity Car-hire facility Choice of international cuisine Regular updates on the patient's progress Post-discharge query handling Assistance at the Foreign Residents Registration Office (FRRO) Visa assistance International insurance facilitation help desk Initial screening and diagnosis Diagnostics and treatment at the hospital Travel arrangements to Delhi on a turnkey basis - including
                            visa, ticketing, pick-up at the airport, money transfer and
                            exchange, ATM withdrawals Interpretation services Exclusive ‘Help Desk’ and
                            a dedicated Relationship
                            Manager to ensure smooth services Boarding and lodging assistance to suit range of budgets All arrangements for return journey Bariatric
            Surgery Packages - Obesity We look at overweight and obesity
                      from a different perspective as health professionals and provide
                      a solution which will be different from what you get on your daily
                      newspaper and leaflet. Obesity is when a person is carrying too much body fat for
                      their height and sex. A person is considered obese if they have
                      a Body Mass Index (BMI) - weight in kilograms divided by their
                      height in metres squared - of 28 among Asians and 30 for Caucasians. Asians with a BMI between 23 (25 for Caucasians) and 28 (30
                      for Caucasians) are categorised as overweight, and those with
                      an index above 28 are categorised as obese. People with a BMI
                      of 40 or more are described as morbidly obese. Your waist circumference may also help us to assess your risk
                      of developing obesity-related health problems, such as heart
                      disease. Adult obesity rates have almost quadrupled (become
                      four times as great) over the last 25 years. Obesity can take up to nine years off your lifespan. It also
                      makes you far more likely to develop a range of health-related
                      problems than just cosmetic issues, including: Diabetes Heart disease Stroke Osteoarthritis High blood pressure Gallstones Infertility Depression Cancers of the colon, breast, kidney and stomach Many people may also experience psychological problems, such as: having low self-esteem (self-worth) - or poor self image having low confidence levels feeling isolated in society having reduced mobility leading to a poor quality of life Causes Obesity does not just happen
                      overnight - it develops gradually from poor diet and lifestyle
                      choices and to some extent, from your genes. Lifestyle choices Eating more calories
                      than you need may lead to poor food choices - for example,
                      eating high fat, processed or fast foods rather than filling
                      up on fruit, vegetables and unrefined carbohydrates, such
                      as, wholemeal bread and brown rice. Alcohol also contains
                      a lot of calories and heavy drinkers are often overweight. Bad eating habits Bad eating habits also
                      tend to run in families - rather than inheriting a slow metabolism.
                      The habits learnt from your parents can be an important factor.
                      Childhood obesity is a strong indicator of weight-related
                      health problems in later life, showing that inherited unhealthy
                      lifestyle choices continue into adulthood. Lack of physical activity Lack of physical activity
                      is another important factor that is related to obesity. Genes and family Some people tend to stay
                      the same weight for years without much effort, whereas others
                      find they put on weight quickly if they are not careful. This
                      could be due in part to your genes - scientists have discovered
                      certain genes that make you feel hungrier or make it take
                      longer for you to feel full. Medical reasons In less than one out
                      of every 100 cases, there is a medical reason for obesity.
                      Conditions such as Cushing's syndrome (over-production of
                      steroid hormones in the body) and an under-active thyroid
                      gland are rare causes of weight gain. Certain medicines, including some steroids
                      and antidepressants, can contribute to weight gain. Also, taking
                      the contraceptive
                      pill and quitting smoking
                      may increase your appetite. Diagnosis Body Mass Index (BMI) is currently used
                      as the most accurate and reliable way of measuring how overweight
                      you are. You can work out your
                      own BMI using this calculation: 1. Measure your height
                    in metres and multiply
                    the number by itself
                    - this is the squared
                    figure 2. Measure your weight
                    in kilograms 3. Divide your weight
                    by the answer you got
                    in step 1 (squared height) 4. The number you are
                    left with is your BMI For example, if you are: 1.65 metres tall (165cm - 65 inches), your squared figure is 2.72 58 kg in weight 58 kg divided by 2.72 21.3 BMI figure For most people, an ideal BMI is between 18 and 23. Treatment The best way of tackling obesity
                is to reduce the amount of calories that you eat and exercise
                more. Most you know who diet either regained weight back or failed
                to achieve significant weight loss. We have designed the combination
                of diet and exercise along with pharmacological treatment. Bariatric
                surgery can be an excellent choice for some patients and can reduce
                significant weight. Medication The part of the brain that
                controls how hungry we are is called the hypothalamus. It controls
                the hormones and chemical signals circulating in our blood that influence
                appetite. Sibutramine
                    (obego) and Rimonabant (oberim) have
                    been recommended internationally
                    and can cause weight reduction of
                    up to 10% in 3 months in majority
                    of cases. However, this needs to
                    be discussed with us before it can
                    be started. There are some side effects,
                    but the benefits may outweigh them
                    in most patients. Orlistat (obelit), works
                    by blocking the action of body chemicals
                    called enzymes which digest fat.
                    The undigested fat is not absorbed
                    into your body and is passed out
                    with your faeces (stools). This can
                    cause diarrhoea. You have to have
                    made significant effort to lose weight
                    through diet, exercise or changing
                    your lifestyle before taking it. Surgery People
                with a BMI of 35 or more are described as morbidly obese. At this
                stage, the problem can be very hard to treat. Surgery may be considered
                to restrict the amount of food eaten or to interrupt the digestive
                process. Surgery may also be an option for people with a BMI of 35 or more
                who have life-threatening cardiopulmonary problems - for example,
                severe sleep apnoea (a sleep disorder where a person experiences
                irregular breathing at night), obesity-related heart disease or
                diabetes and can be recommended to those who have a BMI more than
                38 and failed to loose weight with diet for a long time. There are three types of weight-loss surgery. The best type of
                surgery depends upon how much weight needs to be lost. All of them
                are done laproscopically (key hole surgery). Sleeve
                    gastrectomy involves the removal
                    of the majority of the stomach
                    to create a smaller, tubular
                    (sleeve-shaped) stomach that
                    can hold less food and is resistant
                    to stretching. Lap banding, can be
                    adjusted or removed. This procedure
                    places a band around the top
                    of the stomach. This causes the
                    person to feel full after eating
                    a small amount of food. In gastric bypass,
                    we create a small pouch in the
                    stomach. The pouch is connected
                    to the small intestine. These
                    changes cause the person to feel
                    full after eating a small amount
                    of food. It also causes the body
                    to absorb fewer calories from
                    food. Weight loss surgery can have complications,
                such as pain, infection, need for a second surgery, or nutrition
                problems. The specific complication depends upon which surgery is
                done and if the person has other medical problems. There is a smaller
                risk of complications when weight loss surgery is done in centres
                with a great deal of experience. Less than 1 in 100 people die because
                of weight loss surgery. Bariatric surgery has emerged as a
                viable option to reduce weight in morbidly obese people. In addition,
                it leads to substantial weight loss and amelioration of diabetes,
                obstructive sleep apnoea and other co-morbid conditions. Current
            guidelines for application of bariatric surgery are BMI above40 without co-morbidity BMI
                    above 35 with co-morbidity o Morbidities in Asian Indians
                    occur at lower level of BMI than
                    other races. We have data suggesting
                    lower cut-offs for BMI and WC,
                    and application of drug treatment
                    should also be done earlier,
                    it is proposed to have revised
                    limit of BMI for bariatric surgery o	Suggested for bariatric surgery BMI
                      above 32.5 with co-morbidity
                      not responding to optimal medical
                      management including weight
                      loss drugs or causing incapacitation BMI
                    above 37.5 without co-morbidity
                    not responding to optimal medical
                    management including weight loss
                    drugs or causing incapacitation After
            Surgery People
                lose about 60 percent of their extra weight. The amount of weight
                lost depends upon the nature of surgery conducted. Other health problems
                (e.g. diabetes or arthritis) often improve after weight loss surgery.
                After surgery, it is important to eat the right foods and exercise
                to stay healthy. Help with diet and exercise planning is available
                at Max Healthcare. We offer a wide range of healthcare, educative and support services for diabetes, obesity and bariatric surgery, thyroid disorders and other endocrine disorders, including pituitary tumour. Learn More A list of questions and answers commonly asked by people about diabetes, obesity and bariatric surgery, thyroid disorders and other endocrine disorders and diseases and their treatments. Learn More Find out more about the people who care for you - our doctors. Learn More You will never feel alienated at Max Healthcare. Know more about how we take care of you. Learn More Max - Hospitals in Delhi - Best Hospitals in India - Joint Replacement Surgery - Neurosurgery in India - Cardiac Surgery - Heart Bypass Surgery - Spine Surgery - Knee replacement Surgery - Hip Replacement Surgery - Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy - Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery - Cancer Treatment India - Surgical Oncology - Infertility Treatment & IVF - Paediatric Surgery - Eye Surgery - Cosmetic Surgery © 2012 Max Healthcare. All rights res