
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 01:28:52 GMT
Server: LiteSpeed
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.9
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-Type: text/html

Tips On Using Lumbar Support For Back Pain Home | Submit Articles | Login | Author Name Article Title Article Text Resource Box Number Times Read :
94 Categories ADD/ADHD Addictions Aging and Anti Aging Air Quality Alternative Health Beauty Child Health Conditions and Diseases Death and Dying Dentistry and Dental Diabetes Disabilities Eating Disorders Environmental Health First Aid Fitness General Health Health and Dental Insura Health Education Health Employment Health Law Health Press Releases Heart Disease Home Health Medical Medical Health History Mens Health Mental Health Midwifery Neuro Linguistic Program Nursing Nutrition Occupational Health and Pain Management Personal Health Record Pet and Animal Health Public Health and Safety Reproductive Health Retreats Root Category Senior Health Social Work Stem Cells Travel Health Weight Loss Womens Health Stats Total Articles: 
      307990 Total Authors: 
      63265 Total Downloads: 
      2041281 Newest Member Susan Taylor Tips On Using Lumbar Support For Back Pain Category Rss Feed - http://www.ehealtharticle.com/rss.php?rss=100 By : Amit Kheterpal Submitted 
                                      2009-01-02 21:55:28 Lumbar is that region of the body which is the most critical for the human being in terms of the human beings standing erect as well as their flexibility and rotation. Lumbar region has five major vertebrae of the spinal region and it these five major vertebrae which take most of the pressure when you sit or bend. In fact the most important reason that a human being stands erect is because of this lumbar region. They say that lumbar region in the Homo Sapiens is what distinguishes it form other mammals. As a person you need to careful about the lumbar region and take good care of the most important region of the body. Injuries happen to the lumbar region while doing repetitive motions using the spine or if you have a sitting job or you have a driving job which involves a large amount of time on the road. The sitting means that you can have lower back pains. To prevent this back pain you need to have ergonomically designed chairs for sitting. The backrest of the chair should at 120 degrees to the seat of the chair and also the lumbar support area of the backrest should be 5 centimeters. This is the most basic of the ergonomic requirements and if you have the back pain then your next best option is to use the car lumbar support or the auto lumbar support if you drive a car or a truck. Then if you have severe back pains then you can have back supports which are called the lumbar support braces. These braces have the metallic sheet in them or a plastic piece which keeps your back absolutely straight. These braces have the Velcro straps attached to them which you can tie in front of the stomach. Nowadays there are inflatable lumbar supports which are helpful in case you want to use the lumbar support for office as well as car. You can easily deflate the support and put it in your bag. This is a great advantage as opposed to earlier ones which were not the inflatable types. Lumbar support is medically proven to be the best treatment for the lower back pain and is used for orthopedic reason as well in a variety of back bon related treatments. So make sure that you have all the correct information about lumbar support to buy one of the correct size and a perfect fit. Author Resource:- The author has a website about car lumbar support pillows and he talks about inflatable car lumbar support Article From eHealth Articles HTML Ready Article. Click on the "Copy" button to copy into your clipboard. ; eHealth Articles | Tips On Using Lumbar Support For Back Pain Tips On Using Lumbar Support For Back Pain By: Amit Kheterpal Lumbar is that region of the body which is the most critical for the human being in terms of the human beings standing erect as well as their flexibility and rotation. 
Lumbar region has five major vertebrae of the spinal region and it these five major vertebrae which take most of the pressure when you sit or bend. In fact the most important reason that a human being stands erect is because of this lumbar region. They say that lumbar region in the Homo Sapiens is what distinguishes it form other mammals. As a person you need to careful about the lumbar region and take good care of the most important region of the body. Injuries happen to the lumbar region while doing repetitive motions using the spine or if you have a sitting job or you have a driving job which involves a large amount of time on the road. The sitting means that you can have lower back pains. To prevent this back pain you need to have ergonomically designed chairs for sitting. The backrest of the chair should at 120 degrees to the seat of the chair and also the lumbar support area of the backrest should be 5 centimeters. This is the most basic of the ergonomic requirements and if you have the back pain then your next best option is to use the car lumbar support or the auto lumbar support if you drive a car or a truck. Then if you have severe back pains then you can have back supports which are called the lumbar support braces. These braces have the metallic sheet in them or a plastic piece which keeps your back absolutely straight. These braces have the Velcro straps attached to them which you can tie in front of the stomach. Nowadays there are inflatable lumbar supports which are helpful in case you want to use the lumbar support for office as well as car. You can easily deflate the support and put it in your bag. This is a great advantage as opposed to earlier ones which were not the inflatable types. Lumbar support is medically proven to be the best treatment for the lower back pain and is used for orthopedic reason as well in a variety of back bon related treatments. So make sure that you have all the correct information about lumbar support to buy one of the correct size and a perfect fit. Author Resource:-> The author has a website about car lumbar support pillows and he talks about inflatable car lumbar support Article From eHealth Articles Firefox users please select/copy/paste as usual New Members Sign up learn more Affiliate Sign In Nav Menu Home Login Submit Articles Submission Guidelines Top Articles Link Directory About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Actions Print This A