Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Feb 2007 14:00:53 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "43413b63946c71:a33d"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 23:46:46 GMT
Connection: close

Bioterrorism, Anthrax, Bioflavonoids, flavonoids, Natural Resue Remedies for anthrax, Holisticonline.com Home Search Holisticonline Grandmas 
			Remedies Quality vitamins,  natural remedies Specialgifts.com Big savings on gemstones, jewelry and gifts. Alternative
    Medicine Stress
    Management Conditions/
      Treatments Preferred
    Providers Holistic Living Alternative
    Therapies Acupuncture Aromatherapy Ayurveda Biofeedback Chelation
    Therapy Herbal
    Medicine Homeopathy Humor
    Therapy Hydrotherapy Imagery Light Therapy Massage Meditation NLP Nutrition Prayer/
      Spiritual Reiki Shiatsu Yoga FAQ (Health) Feedback Register Media Bioterrorism Natural
        Rescue Remedies for Anthrax Flavonoids (Bioflavonoids) The flavonoids are found in the rind of fruits and vegetables. More than four thousand flavonoids have been identified in plants. Flavonoids are beneficial nutrients for health and should be part of any well- rounded diet-especially a diet for optimal immunity. Numerous studies have shown that people eating high- flavonoid diets have a lower-than-average risk of developing heart disease and cancer. These nutrients also enhance the activity of white blood cells and boost the body's defenses against a broad range of bacterial and viral infections, from urinary tract infections to HIV. Cranberries Cranberry juice has long been a folk remedy for treating urinary tract infections, which are typically caused by a strain of E. coli. The principal antibacterial flavonoid in cranberries (and blueberries), methyl alpha-D-mannopyranoside, works by making the urinary tract slippery for bacteria, which prevents them from adhering and establishing an infection. (1) In a clinical study of 53 elderly women, half were given a large glass of cranberry juice and the other half a look-alike noncranberry drink with vitamin C. They were asked to drink 1 glass every day for six months. After only two months, the women drinking cranberry juice had half the incidence of urinary tract infections. (2) Green Tea Green tea contains a group of diverse f1avonoids, including tannins, gallic acid esters, and catechins. Many of these compounds fight infections by acting directly against bacteria and by stimulating the immune system. Some of the f1avonoids promote the body's production and activity of white blood cells, T cells, and antibodies. (3) Green tea and many of its individual f1avonoids inhibit the activity of Streptococcus mutans, the bacterium that causes dental cavities. Green tea prevents cavities in a couple of ways. Green tea inhibits S. mutans's production of glycans, a sticky material that helps the bacteria attach to teeth. Hexanes, a chemical component of green tea and many flavonoids including coriander, sage, and thyme, are also quite capable of killing S.
        mutans. Green tea' s flavonoids inhibit the influenza virus, diarrhea-causing rotaviruses and enteroviruses, Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough), and Mycoplasma pneumoniae ("walking pneumonia").(4-7) The gallic acid flavonoids, in concentrations comparable to those found in green tea, also stop the reproduction of antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, the most dangerous bacterium found in hospitals today .(8,9) Several other flavonoids also possess antibacterial and antiviral properties. Grape seed extract, a type of flavonoid supplement, contains a number of proanthocyanidins, which have anti-herpes virus properties. (More than 250 proanthocyanidins have been identified in plants.) Grape seed extracts also contain gallic acid esters similar to those found in green tea. Dosage Recommendations Take a diet containing many different kinds of fruits and vegetables in order to have the most diverse source of flavonoids to build immunity and prevent disease. Take flavonoid supplements when actually fighting an infection. References 1. Sobota, A. E., "Inhibition of Bacterial Adherence by Cranberry Juice: Potential Use for the Treatment of Urinary Tract Infections," Journal of Urology, May 1984;131:1013-1016. 2. Avorn, J., et al., "Reduction of Bacteriuria and Pyuria after Ingestion of Cranberry Juice," Journal of the American Medical Association, March 9, 1994;271:751-754. 3. Berg, P. A., and Daniel, P. T., "Effects of Flavonoid Compounds on the Immune Response," in Plant Flavonoids in Biology and Medicine II: Biochemical, Cellular, and Medicinal Properties, Cody, V., et al., eds., Alan R. Liss Inc., New York, 1988, 157-171. 4. Nakayama, M., et al., "Inhibition of the Infectivity of Influenza Virus by Tea Polyphenols," Antiviral Research, August 1993;21:289-299. 5. Mukoyama, A., et al., "Inhibition of Rotavirus and Enterovirus Infections by Tea Extracts," Japanese Journal of Medical Science and Biology, August 1991;44:181-186. 6. Horiuchi, Y., et al., "Protective Activity of Tea and Catechins against Bordetella pertussis," Kansenshogaku Zasshi -Journal of the Japanese Association for Infectious Diseases, May 1992;66:599-605. 7. Chosa, H., et al., "Antimicrobial and Microbicidal Activities of Tea and Catechins against Mycoplasma," Kansenshogaku Zasshi-Journa[ of the Japanese Association for Infectious Diseases, May 1992;66:606-611. 8. Toda, M., et al., "Antibacterial and Bactericidal Activities of Tea Extracts and Catechins against Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcusaureus," Nippon Saikingaku Zasshi -Japanese Journal of Bacteriology, September 1991; 46:839-845. 9. Kono, K., et al" "Antibacterial Activity of Epigallocatechin Gallate against Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus," Kansenshogaku Zasshi- Journal of the Japanese Association for Infectious Diseases, December 1994; 68:1518-1522. Next Topic: [ Bioterrorism
Home ][ Diseases
and Remedies ][ Holisticonline.com Home ] Holisticonline.com is developed and maintained
by ICBS, Inc. Send mail to: info@holisticonline.com with
comments about this web site. Copyrigh