<http://www.excitedbylife.com/?p=1046>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 12:16:58 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://www.excitedbylife.com/xmlrpc.php
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
X-Cacheable: YES
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 12:16:58 GMT
Connection: close

Health Benefits Of Manuka Honey Unmasked Home About Us Contact Us Recommended Sitemap Subscribe: Posts | Comments | Email Excited By Life Discovery, Healthy Living, Happiness and Passion for Life Home Passion For life Famous Quotes Healthy Living Life Adventures Amazing Discoveries Life Online Health Benefits Of Manuka Honey Unmasked Healthy Living Tweet Image by by Hamed Saber R esearchers may have finally discovered how honey actually heals. Manuka honey has been used successfully in hospitals to kill bacteria that are highly resistant to penicillin. However, its exact healing methods are still not known. A new discovery by the University Of Wales Institute in Cardiff may shed light on one possible mechanism. The researchers isolated proteins from bacterial cells treated with manuka honey and found that an important protein was missing. They discovered that the protein FabI was completely missing from the manuka treated bacteria. This protein is needed for the fatty acid biosynthesis essential for the bacteria’s cellular development. The absence of the protein may explain how manuka honey kills bacteria by stopping their development. Honey has been used to tread would infections for centuries and is now being used to treat  hard to kill bacterial infections. SOURCE: http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2009-09/sfgm-hmh090209.ph I can attest to the amazing healing ability of manuka honey for treating my own internal intestinal problems. Unfortunately, I suffer from Ulcerative Colitis and when under stress or when I don’t exercise regularly I usually end suffering from severe bouts of the disease as a result. The only way I have found for treating the bouts is to go on a manuka honey spread over dry (unsweetened biscuit) diet for a week. Have you had a great success using manuka honey or honey in general to treat an ailment? Share your story in the comments below. You may also like - Health Benefits Of Oatmeal Ulcerative Colitis What Foods To Eat About Danny Sheehan Danny lives in Hong Kong but is originally from Australia. He is Married to Maggie and together they have two children with whom they enjoy sharing and enjoying an exciting life with daily. Danny's passions are freedom, adventure and discovery, mainly in nature and science but also spiritually.  He is a great believer in living in the NOW . Web | Twitter | Facebook | Google+ Link to this post! Subscribe Subscribe to our e-mail newsletter to receive updates. ← New Lost World Discovered Hidden In Extinct Volcano English Grammar Checker Reviews → No comments yet. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website you MUST enable javascript to be able to comment Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. This blog uses premium CommentLuv which allows you to put your keywords with your name if you have had 3 approved comments. Use your real name and then @ your keywords (maximum of 3) Famous Quotes About Life Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character. Albert Einstein Get Excited About Life Again! Subscribe to our e-mail newsletter to receive updates. Fan Page Popular Latest Benefits Of Napping and Siestas October 12, 2011 16 Awesome Ultimate Blog Challengers July 19, 2011 Exercise Outside With Nature September 13, 2011 What Is Your Next Action? July 21, 2011 Hong Kong Quarry Bay to Stanley Walk July 9, 2011 Famous Quotes About Life And Love July 13, 2011 Happiness Reading 5 Million Books October 6, 2011 7 Things I Learned From A Millionaire October 14, 2011 Thumbs Up for Online Education | The Career Energizer March 17, 2012 10 Ways You Can Be Greener Every Day February 1, 2012 5 Top Tips To Improve Your Winter Mood February 1, 2012 Could Your Bathroom Reduce Your Stress? January 28, 2012 Eulogy For My Father January 16, 2012 Can Intense Exercise Damage Your Heart? December 12, 2011 5 Enduring Old Wives Tales That Affect Personal Habits December 8, 2011 Tips On How To Get More REM Sleep November 11, 2011 Top Contributors Traci shaunrosenberg Roy A. Ackerman, Ph. Mary Dan O'Neil | Co Martha Giffen Sherrie Koretke Recent Comments Mary { Scary study! Lucky for me, my sport involves only short bursts of activity, nothing like marathon running. My former coach always encouraged me to breathe... } – Apr 10, 1:14 PM Michael { Losing a job is not the end of the world. It might become a blessing in disguise because then you'll be able to find and... } – Apr 09, 6:39 AM Feye { As for me, avoiding caffeine 6-7 hours before sleeping is also essential. Relaxing a bit is also helpful like for me I always take a... } – Apr 09, 2:58 AM Ikenna Odinaka { It been a long time since I read something on human evolution since Darwin's theory of evolution back in school days. Thanks for sharing. } – Apr 08, 7:09 PM Copyright © 2