
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 21:51:51 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.13
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Drectory-Script: eSyndiCat Pro v2.2.02
Last-Modified: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 21:51:51 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Duodenal Switch « Tennessee « Weight Loss Surgeons Home HOME NEWS SURGEON DIRECTORY Weight Loss Surgeons / Tennessee / Duodenal Switch Duodenal Switch Surgeons in Tennessee Centennial Center for the Treatment of Obesity Located in Nashville, Tennessee, Centennial Center for the Treatment of Obesity and its bariatric surgeons have been designated a Center of Excellence in weight loss surgery.  Surgeries offered include laparoscopic gastric bypass, Lap-Band, Realize Band, laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy, laparoscopic duodenal switch, and revisional surgery. New Life Center for Bariatric Surgery At the New Life Center for Bariatric Surgery we offer a truly individualized care plan.  We are a Bariatric Center of Excellence in East Tennessee and are proud to offer more weight loss options than anyone else.  Located in Knoxville, TN. You have to enable JavaScript in your browser. Consumer Guide to WLS Bariatric Surgery: Center of Excellence Individuals who are looking into weight loss surgery should consider the benefits of choosing a Bariatric Surgery Center of Excellence program and find out what it can offer them in terms of care, results, and satisfaction. The process to become a Bariatric Surgery Center of Excellence is rigorous, with comprehensive requirements and a thorough review of facilities, surgeons, staff, hospital, and medical records to assess each facet of care specific to bariatric surgery patients. For a medical center to earn this distinction is similar to an actor being awarded an Oscar or an athlete winning an Olympic gold medal. It recognizes excellence in achievement and dedication to the highest standards in caring for bariatric surgery patients. OVERVIEW What is Obesity? WLS Patient Criteria WLS Benefits WLS Results Before & After Photos Questions to Ask Your Surgeon Life After Weight Loss Surgery SURGERY OPTIONS WLS Options Weight Loss Surgery Options Gastric Bypass Gastric Banding Gastric Sleeve Duodenal Switch Biliopancreatic Diversion Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Bariatric Plastic Surgery Gastric Band Systems LAP-BAND® System REALIZE™ Band Gastric Band Surgery Risks Bariatric Revisions Bariatric Revision Surgery StomaphyX ROSE Procedure LAP-BAND After Gastric Bypass Compare LAP-BAND vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Band vs Gastric Sleeve LAP-BAND vs REALIZE Band Clinical Trials TOGA System EndoBarrier Gastric Plication WLS DIET Pre-Surgery Diet Post-Surgery Recovery Diet WLS Diet & Nutrition WLS COST Cost of Weight Loss Surgery Cost of Gastric Banding Weight Loss Surgery Mexico Price of Bariatric Plastic Surgery PAYMENT OPTIONS WLS Insurance Patient Financing WLS RESOURCES BMI Calculator WLS Glossary WLS Videos FAQ Insurance Appeal WLS NEWS FIND A SURGEON Home | Contact Us | Privacy | Disclaimer Copyright © wlshelp.com   2002 - 2012.  All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer: All medical information published on wlshelp.com is for informational purposes only and is not meant to replace professional medical or health advice, examination, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health professional before starting any new treatment, making any changes to existing treatment, o