Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Home Remedies For Asthma Asthma is a chronic condition affecting thousand of people in the United States and millions all over the world. Classic symptoms include coughing, wheezing, difficulty in breathing and tightness in the chest which are caused by allergens or triggers found almost anywhere. Your primary weapons against this condition is of course the conventional medication that has been prescribed you, these may be; bronchodilators, inhalers, beta agonists, etc. But what about times of crisis, what if symptoms start to show and you discover that your rescue or relief medication has run out and at the middle of the night or you are traveling without any means to reach any pharmacy, doctor or hospital anytime soon? What then? This is where home remedies for asthma can help you out. Home remedies while not considered to be the definitive or stand alone medication for asthma can be very handy during times of emergencies like the ones mentioned above. Home remedies are mostly consisted of easy to find and prepare ingredients which can give you the relief that you need while waiting for help to arrive. Here are 5 of the most effective home remedies that you can use: Coffee: Dark and steamy preferably without sugar; the stronger the coffee the better. The caffeine contained in coffee has chemicals that produce the same results as your inhaler medication can. Relieving tight bronchial muscles and breaking down mucus making it easier for air to flow in and out of the lungs. The effect can last anywhere between 2 to 4 hours depending on the severity of your symptom or attack. Steam: When symptoms start to show and you are without your medication steam can also be used to relieve you temporarily. Let hot water run in the shower, closing the door so that steam can build. Once the shower is misty with steam, get in the room and try to inhale as deeply as you can. Steam can break down the mucus blocking your air passages making them easier to cough out, making breathing easier. Honey: Honey has been used in more home remedies to handle various other illnesses aside from asthma compared to any other remedies out there. When symptoms start to show, hold a jug of honey under the nose of the patient and allow them to inhale the aroma that rises. The chemicals contained in honey have been known to act as an expectorant, effective in breaking down phlegm that has developed. Search the internet or your local library if you want to know more home remedies that can help you deal with asthma during times of emergencies. It might not totally take care of the problem but it can prevent the symptoms from worsening until medical help can arrive, which is probably better than nothing. Lastly - make sure you click this link and signup on the next page so I can send you a 10-part mini-ecourse that is instantly accessible that will show you the insider secrets to use home remedies to relieve asthma! "Click Here Now" Johnson Star P.S. Make sure you "click here now" and get access to the free 10-part mini-ecourse we have created for you that will show you how to save a ton of money on how to cure your asthma problem now! Top 3 Home Remedies for Asthma Asthma Remedies | Asthma Herbs Remedies | Asthma Herbal Cures | Asthma Remedies For Adults | Natural Asthma Remedies | Quick Asthma Remedy | Asthma Relief Remedies | Asthma Remedies For 