
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 13:33:23 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Common Names -> Valerian, Maya Ethnobotanicals.com Maya Ethnobotanicals.com Home Register Login My Order Search Advanced Search ( ? ) Categories Common Names Scientific Names By Family By Country Plant Forms Non Plants Incense Sticks Accessories Packaging Smoking Accessories Musical Instruments Sound & Vision Free Media Books Handicrafts & Arts Visionary Art Sacred Objects Tour Articles News Information Terms & Conditions Mailing List Shipping Contact Us Valerian Please wait a moment for a full list of products to load ... Back to Common Names Pages: 1 Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) Usage / Preparation More Information Information Valeriana officinalis / Valerian / Valerianaceae (Valerian family) Information This product is not sold or intended for the purpose of human consumption or cosmetic use. Any information provided about this product on this website, including any links to external websites, are solely intended for historical, scientific and educational purposes and must not be interpreted as a recommendation for a specific use of the product. The statements contained herein have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and the product is not intended to "diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease." The use and application of this product, based on the historical and scientific context provided in the product descriptions and articles, is solely at the customer's risk. This product is a botanical specimen of ethnographic value and interest only and is delivered with no express or implied fitness for any purpose. The product descriptions are compiled from sources we deemed to be reliable up to the date it was written but may contain omissions or errors in fact, or become outdated. It outlines the documented history of uses but should no way be construed to make any medical claims about the ability or efficacy of any of these plants to treat, prevent or mitigate any disease or condition. Although a plant may have a long history of being used for a particular purpose, scientific evidence proving its efficacy for that purpose may be lacking. Scent The roots of Valerian possesses an unpleasant aroma due to the contained volatile oils. Contents The root contains 0,56 % oils. During the past three decades extensive studies on Valerian have identified several unstable esters called valepotriates believed to be the primary source of the plants sedative effects. Researchers have found that although Valerian is effective in producing depression of the central nervous system, neither the tested valepotriates, nor the sesquiterpenes valerenic acid or valeranone, nor the volatile oil itself displayed any such activity. This has led to speculation that it is a combination of volatile oil components, valepotriates or their derivatives that is responsible for Valerians calmative actions. For example, a 1985 study conducted in the Netherlands showed no anxiety-reducing activity by an extract of valerian root or purified valepotriates. However, the study did find that didrovaltrate, a valepotriate, as well as valeranon, an essential oil component from the herb, were able to produce a pronounced smooth-muscle relaxant effect on the intestines. The researchers concluded that certain valerian preparations may produce a calming effect indirectly through local spasmolytic activity. Health Warnings Overall, Valerian is relatively safe and no significant side effects or contraindications are noted, though those with impaired kidney or liver functions should not take valerian except under a physician's supervision. Valerian can interact with alcohol, certain antihistamines, muscle relaxants, psychotropic drugs and narcotics. Those taking any of these drugs should take valerian only under the supervision of a health care provider. Legal Remarks This product is illegal or somehow problematic to send to the following countries.
                    Click on the country link for further information. Finland Norway Back Valeriana officinalis is an herb native to Europe and parts of Asia. It has a long tradition of folk use and was already described by Dioscorides and Pliny. Valerian is a tall perennial herb with hollow stems that bear white or reddish flowers. The vertical rhizome and attached rootlets are harvested in the autumn of the second year's growth. The German Commission E monograph for health authorities indicates that valerian is a safe and effective anti-anxiety agent and sedative for treatment of restlessness and sleep disturbances resulting from nervous conditions. Valerian is perhaps best characterized as a minor tranquilizer. Amount/Price * Quantity root (1) cut Poland , excellent quality [ details ] [ view ] 50 g - $ 2.40 100 g - $ 4.20 250 g - $ 9.60 500 g - $ 17.25 1000 g - $ 32.00 x Back to Top * You are viewing prices in  