Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 10:18:48 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "eab36088476dcc1:15e92"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET

Herbs & Spices, Cranberry, Vaccinium macrocarpon, Natural Healing Guide, Medicinal Plants, Therapeutic Teas, Aromatherapy, Floral Essences, Homeopathy, Herbs & Spices, Natural Beauty, Therapeutic Baths, Nature's Remedies, Garden Pharmacy, Ailments & Treatments, Self Healing Techniques, Gentle Diagnoses, Alternative Therapies NATURAL HEALING 
          GUIDE | Home | Medicinal 
        Plants | Therapeutic Teas | Aromatherapy | Floral Essences | Homeopathy | Herbs & Spices | Natural 
        Beauty | Therapeutic Baths | Essential Oils | Vitamins | | Nutritional Supplements | Minerals | Nature's Remedies | Garden 
        Pharmacy | Ailments & Treatments | Self Healing Techniques | Gentle Diagnoses | Alternative 
        Therapies | Home Remedies | Comprehensive 
              information about Medicinal Plants, Therapeutic Teas, Aromatherapy, 
              Floral Essences, Homeopathy, Herbs and Spices, Natural Beauty, Therapeutic Baths, Nature 
              Remedies, Garden Pharmacy, Ailments and Treatments, Self Healing 
              Techniques, Gentle Diagnoses, Alternative Therapies for your health. Herbs 
              & Spices Cranberry (Vaccinium  macrocarpon) Parsley Garlic Chives Dill Coriander Basil Saffron Nutmeg Tarragon Cardamom Clove Borage Turmeric Aloe vera Astragalus Bilberry Black cohosh Cat's claw Cayenne Chamomile Chaste tree Cranberry Dandelion Dong quai Echinacea Ephedra Feverfew Ginger Ginkgo biloba Ginseng (Panax) Goldenseal Gotu kola Green tea Gugulipid Hawthorn Kava Licorice Milk thistle Mushrooms Nettle Pau d'arco Peppermint Psyllium Saw palmetto Siberian ginseng St John's wort Tea tree oil Valerian White willow bark Wild Yam These tangy, ruby-red berries have long been considered nature's  cure for the urinary tract infections that frequently plaque women of all  ages.  Modern science has now confirmed  the merit of this piece of folk wisdom. What it is? The cranberry, a plant native of America that is closely related to  the blueberry, has been used for centuries in both healing and cooking.  The name is a shortened form of craneberry –  the flowers of the low-growing shrub were thought to resemble the heads of the  cranes that frequented the bogs where it grew.   The berries are now widely cultivated throughout the United States, and also in Australia and New Zealand.  In earlier times, American doctors used  crushed berries as poultices to treat wounds and tumours, and also used the  crushed berries as a remedy for scurvy, a gum and bleeding disorder caused by a  deficiency of vitamin C.  In this  century, medicinal interest in cranberry has focused on its important role in  preventing and treating urinary tract infections (UTIs), which are caused by Escherichia coli and other types of  bacteria. What it does? In the 1920s, it was discovered that people who ate large  amounts of cranberries produces a more acidic urine, and that the urine was purified  in the process.  During this purification  process, a powerful substance called hippuric acid was produced.  It proved to have a strong antibiotic effect  on the urinary tract.  In fact, it  discouraged, and sometimes even eliminated, infection-causing bacteria. More recent studies, however, indicate that cranberry's main  infection-fighting capabilities may be due to a different property.  Cranberry appears to inhibit the adhesion of  harmful micro-organisms to certain cells lining the urinary tract.  This makes the environment a less hospitable  place for E. coli and other bacteria to replicate, and thus reduces the  likelihood of infection.  Scientists have  isolated two substances that produce this effect.  One is fructose, a sugar that is found in  many fruit juices.  The other is a poorly  understood compound present in cranberry and blueberry juices but absent from  grapefruit, orange, guava, mango and pineapple juices. Major Benefits Scientists have now confirmed the effectiveness of cranberry in  preventing and treating UTIs.  Several  studies have shown that daily consumption of cranberry, either in juice or  capsule form, dramatically reduces the recurrence of UTIs.  Women are 10 times more likely to develop  these infections than men – in fact, 25-35% of women in the age range 20-40  have had at least one.  There's no  reason, however, why men can't benefit from cranberry as well. Cranberry also seems to shorten the course of urinary tract  illness, helping to alleviate pain, burning, itching and other symptoms.  But it's important to remember that  persistent UTIs should be treated promptly with antibiotics to prevent more  serious complications.  However,  cranberry juice can safely be taken along with conventional drugs.  It may even help hasten healing, and is also  an excellent preventative. Additional  Benefits Because it helps to deodorize urine, cranberry should be in the  diet of anyone suffering from the embarrassing odours associated with  incontinence.  In addition, cranberry's  high vitamin C content makes it a natural vitamin supplement. Common Uses Treats lower urinary tract infections (also called bladder  infections or cystitis) and bladder inflammations. May prevent recurrence of urinary tract infections or  inflammation. Helps to deodorize urine. Forms Capsule. Tablet. Soft gel. Liquid/tincture. Fresh or dried fruit. Tea. Caution! Cranberry is not a substitute for  antibiotics during an acute urinary tract infection (UTI).  See your doctor if you don't feel better  after 24-36 hours of using cranberry for a suspected UTI. See your doctor right away if symptoms  include fever, chills, back pain, or blood in the urine, which may be signs of  a kidney infection (upper UTI) requiring medical attention. Reminder :  If you have a medical condition, talk to your  doctor before taking supplements. How to take  it? Dosage: To help treat  urinary tract infections :  You  should get about 800 mg of cranberry extract a day (two 400 mg pills).  Or you can drink at least 500 ml of undiluted  juice a day or take it in tincture form (follow the package directions. To prevent  recurrences :  The dose can be cut in  half to 400 mg of cranberry a day. Guidelines for  use: Cranberry can be taken with or without food.  Drinking plenty of water or other fluids  along with cranberry and throughout the day should speed recovery.  Cranberry has no known interactions with  antibiotics or other medications.  But by  acidifying the urine, cranberry may lessen the effect of another herb sometimes  used for UTIs called uva ursi (also known as bearberry).  Try one or the other. Possible side  effect There are no known side effects from either the short-term or  long-term use of cranberry.  In addition,  cranberry appears to be safe for pregnant and breast-feeding women. Shopping Hints For best medical effect, choose cranberry capsules or undiluted,  unsweetened juice (which contains higher concentrations of the active  ingredients) over presweetened juice.   The processed commercial product (cranberry juice) is only one-third  cranberry juice with added water and sweeteners to mask the berry's tart taste. High-quality undiluted cranberry juice can be found at  health-food shops.  To make it palatable,  mix it with apple or pear juice to taste. Latest  Findings A major study in the Journal of American Medical Association looked at 153 elderly women (average age 78) who had no urinary tract  symptoms.  Half the women drank 300 ml  (just over a cup) of undiluted cranberry juice every day, and the other half  received a placebo.  After four to eight  weeks, those who drank the cranberry juice were much less prone to urinary  tract infections and had lower levels of potentially harmful bacteria in their  urine. Research confirms that cranberry is effective for younger as  well as older women.  In a study in Utah, women in the age  range 28-44 who took cranberry capsules (400 mg a day) for three months were  only 40% as likely to have a urinary tract infection as the women who were  given a placebo. Did you know? You would have to eat 2  cups of cranberries to get the equivalent of two 400 mg cranberry capsules. Comprehensive 
              information about Medicinal Plants, Therapeutic Teas, Aromatherapy, 
              Floral Essences, Homeopathy, Herbs and Spices, Natural Beauty, Therapeutic Baths, Nature 
              Remedies, Garden Pharmacy, Ailments and Treatments, Self Healing 
              Techniques, Gentle Diagnoses, Alternative Therapies for your health. © 
 