Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) - Weill Cornell Department of Surgery Weill Cornell Medical College Weill Cornell Department of Surgery - For Patients and their Families About Us Services at Weill Cornell Surgery Health Library Patient and Visitor Guides to our Hospital Clinical Trials Find a Surgeon About Us Weill Cornell Department of Surgery Contact Us Ways to give Home Health Library Health Animation Library Ranked Among America's Best Hospitals by U.S.News About Us Return to Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Overview More on Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Surgical Services Return to Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Overview More on Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery & Dentistry Health Library Return to Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Overview More on Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Patient and Visitor Guides to our Hospital Return to Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Overview More on Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Clinical Trials Return to Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Overview More on Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) Tooth Decay (Caries or Cavities) What is tooth decay (caries or cavities)? Tooth decay is the disease known as caries or cavities - a highly preventable disease caused by many factors. Who is at risk for tooth decay? The answer is ... everyone who has a mouth. We all host bacteria in our mouths which makes everyone a potential target for cavities. Risk factors that put a person at a higher risk for tooth decay include: persons with diets high in sweets, carbohydrates, and sugars persons who live in communities with limited or no fluoridated water supplies children senior citizens Preventing tooth decay: Preventing tooth decay and cavities involves five simple steps: Brush your teeth, tongue, and gums twice a day with a fluoridated toothpaste. Floss your teeth daily. Eat a well-balanced diet and limit or eliminate sugary snacks. Consult your physician or dentist regarding the supplemental use of fluoride and/or dental sealants to protect teeth against plaque. Schedule routine (every 6 months) dental cleanings and examinations for you and your family. Smart Snacking When you are deciding which snack to "snack" on, the National Institute of Dental Research, part of the National Institutes of Health, reminds you to think about the following: the number of times a day you eat sugary snacks. how long the sugary food stays in your mouth. the texture of the sugary food - is it chewy or sticky? Damaging acids form in your mouth every time you eat a sugary snack. Why not consider an alternative, such as raw vegetables, fresh fruits, or whole-grain crackers next time the urge to "snack" strikes again? Source: National Institute of Dental Research Bookmark Print Click here to find out how you can support the Department of Surgery Surgical Services Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery & Dentistry Top of page © Weill Cornell Medical College Home | Disclaimer | For Professionals | NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Find a Surgeon x close All Categories Last Name Condition or Specialty Surgical Services by Last Name by Condition or Specialty Surgical Services by Last Name by Condition or Specialty Surgical Services View Full Profile Mini-Profile Phone: (212) 746-6006 Fax: (212) 746-8753 Address: 525 