
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 24 Feb 2012 05:17:08 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Fri, 24 Feb 2012 04:17:08 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

The Fair Maidenhair-tree - Ginkgo About.com Education Forestry Forestry Search Forestry Basics Identify a Tree Wildfire Share Free Forestry Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Fair Maidenhair-tree The Fascinating Ginkgo Biloba By Steve Nix , About.com Guide See More About: ginkgo hardwood tree identification The Moses Cone Ginkgo Steve Nix Ginkgo biloba is known as a "living fossil tree". This tree's genetic line spans the Mesozoic era back to the Triassic period. Closely related species are thought to have existed for over 200 million years. ( take this quiz to see how much you know about Ginkgo) Also known as maidenhair-tree, the leaf shape and other vegetative organs are identical to fossils found in the United States, Europe and Greenland. The contemporary ginkgo is cultivated and does not exist anywhere in the wild state. Scientists think that native ginkgo was destroyed by glaciers that ultimately covered the whole Northern Hemisphere. Ancient Chinese records are surprisingly complete and describe the tree as ya-chio-tu , meaning a tree with leaves like a duck's foot. Asian people systematically planted the tree and many living ginkgoes are known to be more than 5 centuries old. Buddhists not only kept written records but revered the tree and preserved it in temple gardens. Western collectors eventually imported ginkgoes to Europe where it was very popular in large cities like London and Paris. G. biloba was first brought into the United States by William Hamilton for his garden in Philadelphia in 1784. It was a favorite tree of Architect Frank Lloyd Wright and made its way into city landscapes across North America. The tree had an ability to survive pests, drought, storms, ice, city soils, and was widely planted. But it did have a problem... Stink-bomb Tree The ginkgo is dioecious. That simply means that there are separate male and female plants. Only the female plant, when fertilized, produces the oval, slimy, tan-orange ginkgo fruit . The fruit stinks! The smell's description ranges from "rancid butter" to "vomit". This foul smell has limited ginkgo's popularity while also causing city governments to actually remove the tree and ban the female from being planted. Male ginkgoes do not produce a fruit and are selected as the main cultivars used to transplant in urban communities. The slippery pulp can also be a liability. Because of potential city sidewalks slimed with the pulp of the fruit, urban landscapers recommend only the male tree. Some of the best varieties found to plant are 'Autumn Gold', 'Princeton Sentry' and 'Fairmont'. Thanks for the Memories The extract of ginkgo biloba is bottled as a remedy for several ailments. Maidenhair-tree's leaf extract is a billion dollar business. According to one recent report, "In Germany alone, ginkgo biloba prescriptions (it is prescribed by doctors in Germany) retailed at $280 million in U.S. dollars". A German manufacturer, Schwabe, sold almost $2 billion U.S. dollars worth of Ginkgo biloba extract worldwide in 1993. Gingko biloba is most effective as a concentrated extract, found in either liquid or tablet form. It has beneficial effects on the circulatory system, particularly among the elderly. Studies have shown it can help in treatment of their short-term memory loss, headache, tinnitus (ringing in the ears) and depression by improving blood flow in the arteries and capillaries Fascinating Facts There are no native ginkgoes living in the wild. All wild trees were wiped out hundreds of thousands of years ago but human intervention has saved the modern tree. Several ginkgoes were the only living survivors of an atomic bomb blast dropped on Hiroshima by the United States. About 50 pounds of dried ginkgo leaves yield a pound of the medicinal product. Cor Kwant's The Ginkgo Pages A great site " about the tree Ginkgo biloba and all its aspects ." Moses Cone Ginkgo From About Forestry More Trees The Sycamore The American Chestnut The River Birch Suggested Reading Tree Species Related Articles Ginkgo Biloba - Growing Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo Biloba Trees | Pictures | Gingko Biloba Trees Ginkgo Biloba - What You Need to Know About Ginkgo Biloba Herbs in the News - Depression Manage Ginkgo - Plant and Grow a Ginkgo Steve Nix Forestry Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches frank lloyd wright vegetative organs stink bomb city landscapes ginkgoes ginkgo biloba Explore Forestry Must Reads Tree Leaf Identifier and Key 100 Most Common Trees Chainsaw FAQ Parts of a Tree How to Fell a Tree Most Popular Tree Leaf Key Fell a Tree With a Chainsaw Identify America's Trees Trees are Important Identify Evergreen Trees See More About: ginkgo hardwood tree identification By Category Identifying Your Trees Forestry Photos and Images Forestry Basics Tree Nursery and Reforestation Using Forests and Trees Tree Care and Tree Maintenance Forestry Equipment, Supplies and Tool Reviews A Career in Forestry Your Forest Agency The World's Tropical and Temperate Rainforest Pests that Kill Trees Forestry Environmental Issues Fire in Forests Tree Biology Forestry About.com Education Forestry Identifying Your Trees Tree Identification The Fair Maidenhair-tree - Ginkgo Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.