
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:12:29 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:12:29 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Content-type: text/html

Melatonin Shortens Recovery Time from Jet Lag | Bastyr Center for Natural Health Home Health Information Health Care Services Our Providers Patient Care Dispensaries News and Events Overview Health Conditions and Concerns Healthy Lifestyle Tips Healthy & Wise Newsletter Bastyr Health-E News News and Events Recommended Reading List Recipes National and Community Resources Melatonin Shortens Recovery Time from Jet Lag Researchers investigated the effects of 3 mg per night of supplemental melatonin on 22 professional soccer players and coaches traveling across twelve time zones. All participants engaged in moderate exercise outdoors twice a day for a total of six hours. The athletes recovered from their jet lag after approximately two days, whereas the expected time of recovery after traveling across 12 time zones is about six days. These results show that melatonin, exercise, and light exposure significantly decrease the time required to return to normal sleep patterns. While this study examines the effect of melatonin on people traveling halfway around the world, other studies have shown that melatonin has the same beneficial effect when shorter distances were traveled. The optimal intake amount of melatonin ranges from 0.5 mg to 3 mg and is best taken 30 minutes before bedtime. In addition to treating jet lag, melatonin may also help those suffering from insomnia and swing shift workers whose sleeping time changes from week to week. Although there is little research to support using melatonin for swing shift workers, given its safety record it would be reasonable to try. There is emerging research suggesting melatonin may be useful in the treatment of certain types of cancer, particularly when it is taken in conjunction with specific chemotherapy protocols. However, more research is necessary to determine the usefulness of melatonin as an anti-cancer agent. Although melatonin is generally safe, too much may produce side effects, especially a feeling of being overtired or groggy. Because of this potential side effect, it is recommended not to drive or operate machinery for several hours after taking melatonin. In addition, the long-term safety of melatonin has not been adequately studied; therefore, one should consult a physician before beginning treatment with melatonin to determine whether it is appropriate and in what amounts. Darin Ingels, ND, MT (ASCP), received his bachelor’s degree from Purdue University and his Doctorate of Naturopathic Medicine from Bastyr University in Kenmore, WA. Dr. Ingels is the author of The Natural Pharmacist: Lowering Cholesterol (Prima, 1999) and Natural Treatments for High Cholesterol (Prima, 2000). He currently is in private practice at New England Family Health Associates located in Southport, CT, where he specializes in environmental medicine and allergies. Dr. Ingels is a regular contributor to Healthnotes and Healthnotes Newswire . Copyright © 2002 Healthnotes, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The hormone melatonin, in conjunction with exercise and exposure to light, may help the body resynchronize sleep patterns after traveling across several time zones, according to a new study in the Journal of Pineal Research (2002;32:41–6). Melatonin, a hormone manufactured in the brain that promotes sleep, is produced in high amounts during periods of darkness. Research suggests that taking supplemental melatonin may help travelers get back to a regular sleep pattern more quickly than waiting for the body to regulate the sleep cycle on its own. Healthy Lifestyle Tips » Hey Doc, Should I Be Getting Regular Health Screenings? » New Year’s Resolutions: They Can Still Be a Reality » 5 Party Pointers for Guilt-free Holiday Eating » Every Little Bit Counts: Exercise and Heart Health » Can Omega-Love Your Heart? Eat More FishRelieve Bipolar Depression? » Are You Drinking Enough Water? 4 Ways to Know » MyPlate Provides Simple, Sensible Healthy Eating Tips » Healthier Grilling » Top 10 Local Superfoods » Gluten-Free Product Guide » Energy Bars - A Weight-Loss Secret Weapon » Keep Body Fat Down with Whole Grains » For a Healthy Heart, Don’t Skip Breakfast! » Know Your Sugars » Harvest Nature’s Bounty to Make Easy Meals » Harvest the Season’s Nutritious Bounty » To Function at Your Peak, Stop Shorting Your Sleep » Never Too Late to Master the Mediterranean Diet » Staying Safe in the Summer Heat » Upgrade Your Grocery List » Safe Summer Grilling: Marinate Meats with Herbs and Spices » 10 Medicine Cabinet Must-Haves » How to Conquer Sneaky Snack Attacks » Goji Berry: A Modern Look at an Ancient Superfruit » Chemicals and Cancer: What You Can Do » Four Ways to Live Longer » Sleep More, Eat Less » 6 Simple Ways to Lose Weight » Healthy Living on a Budget » 5 Great Ways to Green Your Baby » Wild About Nuts: Great Health and Taste in One Mouthful » When Are Bigger Portions Better? » Avoid the Caffeine Crash » Tea Drinkers: Give Flavonoid-Rich Chai a Try » 5 Money-Saving Gluten-Free Shopping Tips » Cooking with Gluten-Free Whole Grains » For Better Health, Be a Choosy Snacker » 8 Steps Closer to Being Smoke-Free » How to Stick to the USDA’s Healthy Eating Guidelines » Put a Healthy Twist on Holiday Dishes » Spotlight on Savory Side Dishes » Pomegranate: A Healthy New Twist for Old Favorites » Fall for These Sensational Squash Soups » 100-Mile Thanksgiving » Use Nature’s Harvest to Make Quick Weekday Meals » Healthy Habits for Back to School » For Better Health, Go Mediterranean » Terrific Kid-Pleasing Picnic Ideas » Commute by Foot or Bike for Better Health » Milk Makes Breakfast Go Farther » Healthy Snacks for the Road » Summer Snacks: High-Energy Eats for Kids on the Run » Staying ALIVE: A Workplace Way to Increase Healthy Behaviors » Summer by the Grill: Quick and Lean » Get Away to Good Health » Get Savvy About Your Kids’ Sun Care » Treat Your Taste Buds to Spring’s Bounty » Grill Fabulous Smoke-Seasoned Meals » Liven Up Your Meals with Fresh Herbs » Traditional Chinese Medicine for Fertility Support » Spring Into Family Fitness » No Gluten? What's Left to Eat? » Tea Time: The World’s Favorite Beverage Helps Build Strong Bones » Vitamin D Supplements May Lower Risk of Chronic Diseases » Sun Exposure Enough to Keep Vitamin D Levels Healthy? » Seven Ways to Improve Your Winter Health » Protect Your Heart by Eating a Mediterranean Diet » Live Longer with Whole Grains » More Benefits of Eating Broccoli » Cut Down on Cola for Kidney Health » Cook Meat Right for Good Health » A Little Dark Chocolate Can Lower Blood Pressure » Make Your Pork and Eggs Better for You » A Healthier Way to Eat Watermelons » Stay Active to Protect Against Work-Related Injuries » Herb Profile: Elderberry » Eat Your Greens » Don't Settle for Heavy Metals » Inflammation and Diet: What's the Connection? » More Facts about Heavy Metals » Beat the Heat: Hydration 101 » U.S. Vitamin D Deficiency and Sunlight Avoidance » Blackberries: Invasive Weed or Nutritional Powerhouse? » Herbal Medicine Regulation in the UK » Zinc Improves Impaired Taste » Propolis Cures Yeast Infection in the Mouth » Kudzu Reduces Alcohol Consumption » Tea Tree Oil Hand Wash Effective » Toxins in the Cooking Process » Prickly Pears for Hangover » Walnuts Make History with the FDA » Tea Tree Oil and Staph » Prolonged Air Travel and Blood Clotting Disorder » Watermelon Juice a Rich Source of Lycopene and Beta-Carotene » Tea Tree Oil Shampoo Effective Dandruff Treatment » Increased Irradiation of Meat in the United States » Ginkgo Extract Reduces Severity of Altitude Sickness » Osteoporosis Risk for Children who Don't Do Dairy? » Air Pollution Compromises Vitamin D Status » Safe Intake of Trans Fatty Acids: Zero » Melatonin Shortens Recovery Time from Jet Lag » Are Some Plant Foods More Healthy than Others? » Misleading Report Recommends Natural Protection against Biological Weapons » Spice Up Your Health » Take Control of Mold » Natural Bug Sprays » Protect against Parkinson’s Disease with Vitamin E » Hydrotherapy: An Age-Old Natural Cure » Get Your Symptoms Under Control Through Biofeedback » Guide to Organic Labeling » Hiking and Camping Naturally » Kick the Caffeine Craving » Natural Cleaning Recipes » Who Needs a Nutritionist? » Electroacupuncture » Non-Dairy Sources of Calcium » Meaningful Holidays » Detoxify Yourself for Longevity and Health » Eating Apples Cut Breast Cancer in Tests » 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 | 22 | 23 | 24 | 25 | 26 | 27 | 28 | 29 | 30 | Home | Health Information | Health Care Services | Our Providers | Patient Care | Dispensaries About BCNH | Contact Us | Appointments | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Bastyr University Bastyr Center for Natural Health | 3670 Stone Way N., Seattle, Washington 98103 | Appointments & Inform