
PressReleaseSpider -
			Manuka Honey Heals Wounds, Clears Infection and Reduces Pain Search Manuka Honey Heals Wounds, Clears Infection and Reduces Pain Released: 3/7/2008 3:15:04 PM Company URL: http://www.honeymarkproducts.com Last 
							View : 3/2/2012 4:28:00 PM Page 
							Views : 550 Press Release: The sugars, nutrients and enzymes found in Manuka Honey create a very powerful antibacterial action that makes it possible to use as a dressing for wounds and burns. Some people may find it hard to conceptualize the use of honey for medical purposes.  However, the truth is, many years ago, before the advent of antibiotics and what we consider to be modern medicine, many cultures used honey for medicinal purposes.  When antibiotics were invented, doctors were under the misconception that they were better than honey.  New case studies are starting to prove otherwise. There are many different types of honey with varying antibacterial levels.  Researchers have found that the most potent type of honey is one that comes from New Zealand called Manuka Honey.  The differences in honey is predicated on the floral source, meaning the nectar of the flower that the honeybees use when manufacturing the honey.  Manuka Honey is produced when bees use nectar from the flowers that grow on the Manuka bush which is native to New Zealand and certain parts of Australia.  Manuka Honey has proven to be extremely effective in the treatment of wounds. Manuka Honey provides a moist healing environment and prevents bacterial growth even when wounds are badly infected. Doctors are now using dressings with Manuka Honey to quickly sterilize  wounds without the side effects of antibiotics.  An added bonus to using wound products containing Manuka Honey is that it is effective against antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria such as MRSA.  Manuka Honeys antibacterial properties and its viscosity also provide a barrier, preventing cross-infection of wounds. Because of the existence of glucose for leucocytes in Manuka Honey, hydrogen peroxide is produced which is a known antiseptic.  The acidity of Manuka Honey also adds to the antibacterial action of macrophages. The acidification of wounds promotes healing. The high glucose levels in Manuka Honey is used by the bacteria instead of amino acids from the serum and dead cells which increases lactic acid instead of ammonia and the amines and sulphur compounds that are the cause of malodor in wounds.  Because of this, Manuka Honey can actually help wounds smell better. Clinical studies have shown that Manuka Honey increases the growth of new tissue.  It also reduces inflammation, the exudation of wound fluids and malodor in wounds.  Its anti-inflammatory effect on wound tissues plays a big role in reducing pain.   Manuka Honey has a nutrient effect on regenerating tissue because it contains amino acids, vitamins and different types of sugar.  By osmosis, Manuka Honey causes an outflow of lymph which provides nutrition for regenerating tissue.  The healing process can take longer if the circulation to the affected area is poor or if the person is poorly nourished. Manuka Honey also increases oxygenation of tissues which is important to the healing process. When the Manuka Honey draws fluid away from the wound, it also lifts dirt from the wound bed.  This makes surgical debridement unnecessary.  Manuka Honey also helps to prevent bandages from sticking to the wound which is helpful when the bandages need to be changed. This eliminates the pain normally associated with the changing dressings as well as the tearing of newly formed tissue. "Manuka Honey is also an ideal first aid dressing material for wounds and burns, says Frank Buonanotte, CEO of Honeymark International which is a manufacturer of Manuka Honey products.  "In addition to providing an immediate anti-inflammatory effect, the Manuka Honey also provides an antibacterial action and a barrier to prevent infection." For more information or to purchase Manuka Honey products, call 1-866-427-7329 or visit www.HoneymarkProducts.com . Home Related Press Releases: Manuka Honey Kills MRSA Superbugs - Scientists have discovered that a certain type of honey has the antibacterial properties to kill the hospital superbugs which claim thousands of lives per year.  Well known for thousands of years for  ..  (767 Views) Manuka Honey Destroys Staph Infections - Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (more commonly known as MRSA or Staph infection) is an infection caused by a group of bacteria called staphylococcus aureus.   Problems occur if Staphylocco ..  (707 Views) Advanced Wound Care with Manuka Honey - One manufacturer has been making its mark on both U.S. and international consumer markets and the brand name is Honeymark.  Honeymark International manufactures health care products containing Active  ..  (663 Views) Information About Manuka Honey - There are many different types of honey, predicated on the floral source that its made from.  Manuka Honey is a special type of honey that has been used to heal and cure a variety of symptoms and ailm ..  (654 Views) Manuka Honey, Natures Own First Aid - For centuries, honey has been used as an effective treatment for wounds, burns and ulcers. In recent years there has been renewed interest in the medicinal properties of honey because of the identific ..  (649 Views) Manuka Honey Proves to Be More Effective than Medicine - Honey has been used for medical purposes in cultures around the world for many years to treat a wide variety of health symptoms such as eczema, psoriasis, infected wounds, ringworm, arthritis, athlete ..  (606 Views) Destroying the MRSA Super-bug With Manuka Honey - Recent studies show an increase in bacterial infections that are resistant to antibiotics.  In order to combat these new strains, medical professionals are resorting to the use of Manuka Honey as a vi ..  (598 Views) Home Feed Ma