Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Homeopathy and Menopause Menopause and 
        Homeopathy Menopause means the 
                        permanent ending of menstruation in a woman due to the 
                        ovaries' decreased production of hormones like estrogen 
                        and progesterone, which means the end of a woman’s 
                        natural ability to bear children. Menopause occurs 
                        anywhere between late forties and early fifties. 
                        Menopause before age 35 may occur as a result of a 
                        surgical procedure, treatment of a disease, or illness. 
                        In these cases it is referred to as induced or premature 
                        menopause. Each woman experiences menopause differently. 
                        Menopause is an important time in a woman's life. Her 
                        body is going through changes that can have an effect on 
                        her social life, her feelings about herself, and her 
                        performance at work. Contrary to the old-fashioned view 
                        that life is all downhill after menopause, many women 
                        today find that the years after menopause offer new 
                        recognition and fresh beginnings. To have a positive 
                        attitude towards menopause as a natural, essential and 
                        healthy phase of womanhood is important. Stages of Menopause Menopause occurs in two 
                        stages: 1.    Peri-menopause: This 
                        is the onset of noticeable signs of Menopause when a 
                        woman may begin experiencing irregular periods and 
                        changes such as hot flashes , night sweats, and vaginal dryness . Some women do not experience these 
                        bothersome changes until menopause actually occurs. The 
                        perimenopausal period can be particularly difficult for 
                        women. Unfortunately, there is no effective conventional 
                        treatment for alleviating these initial symptoms of 
                        menopause. That is why a variety of Homeopathic remedies 
                        are being used to help during this transition. 2.    Post-menopause: This 
                        is the time 12 months after your last period, when the 
                        ovaries are no longer producing estrogen and 
                        progesterone. This is when you notice the severity of 
                        your physical and emotional symptoms. Symptoms of Menopause Not all women experience 
                        symptoms, but for those who do the most common 
                        menopausal symptoms are: Hot flashes Vaginal dryness which 
                          increases the chances of vaginal infections Psychological 
                          disturbances causing mood swings, depression, anxiety, 
                          emotional confusion, making a woman more sensitive, 
                          tearful, and fearful Sleep disturbances Night sweats Fatigue Loss of libido, that 
                          is decreased or loss of interest in sex Heart palpitations Headaches and 
                          backaches Changes in skin and 
                          hair Urinary Incontinence Postmenopausal women 
                          are at higher risk of heart disease and osteoporosis (thinning of bones) Weight gain Treating Menopausal 
                        Problems with Homeopathy Growing number of women 
                        today are dissatisfied with the harmful side effects of 
                        conventional hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and are 
                        on the lookout for safer, more Holistic ways of 
                        approaching the symptoms of menopause. Classical 
                        homeopathic treatment can be used as an alternative to 
                        hormone replacement therapy, in the treatment of 
                        menopausal symptoms, as it is individually geared to 
                        each woman’s condition and constitution by treating her 
                        at the mental, emotional, and physical levels which 
                        makes it a popular alternative for menopausal 
                        discomforts. Natural therapy like 
                        homeopathy is the safest and well recommended treatment 
                        before, during, and after menopause because it 
                        stimulates the natural hormonal balance without the use 
                        of harmful drugs. Homeopathic treatment along with 
                        healthy living and a sense of purpose in life can 
                        minimize the changes that happen during this period. Homeopathy offers a wider 
                        range of options than conventional medicine. 
                        Constitutional homeopathic treatment with the management 
                        of an experienced and professional homeopath is an 
                        excellent choice for menopausal symptoms. Self Care Measures Other measures along with 
                        a homeopathic treatment that can significantly reduce 
                        the risk of menopause and dramatically optimize health 
                        are as follows: Stress management and 
                          exercise, would help control your hot flashes, 
                          insomnia (sleeping problems). Regular exercises, like 
                          walking, may also help prevent osteoporosis. Exercise 
                          helps increase conversion of androgens to estrogens 
                          and can help ease menopausal symptoms. Wearing cotton clothing 
                          for night sweats. Use vaginal lubricants 
                          or moisturizers for dryness of the vagina or painful 
                          intercourse. Doing Kegel exercise for 
                          your pelvic floor muscles to control urinary 
                          incontinence. Women who are taking 
                          high consumption of soy products have a low incidence 
                          of hot flashes during menopause. Soy products contain 
                          compounds called Phytoestrogens that are related in 
                          structure to estrogen. Getting enough calcium 
                          in your diet can help strengthen your bones. Other ways of reducing 
                          negative effects of menopause include eating a healthy 
                          diet, which includes fruits, vegetables and grains, 
                          reduce sugar and salt intake. Avoiding caffeinated 
                          drinks, alcohol. These beverages can make the blood 
                          vessels dilate and worsen hot flashes. Quit smoking. Treating Other Women’s 
                        Health Problems Other women health 
                        problems that can be successfully treated with 
                        Homeopathy are Premenstrual symptoms, Menstrual 
                        disorders, Menstrual cramping, Cystitis (Bladder Infections), Vaginitis (Vaginal inflammation due to infections), Cysts & Fibroids , Endometriosis , Fertility and Contraception , Pelvic Inflammatory 
                        disease, Prolapse, Pregnancy problems like morning 
                        sickness, varicose vein, etc., Postpartum depression, 
                        Breast Infections during breast feeding, Depression, 
                        Anxiety, and many more. Homeopathy is reassuring 
                        and helpful for both physical and emotional aspects of 
                        menopause, and most women, in addition to relief from 
                        their discomforts, experience an enhancement in 
                        self-awareness and well being after the treatment. Thus 
                        you can rely on Homeopathy to achieve optimal health 
                        during menopause and into the later years of your life. 
                        Hence, to conclude Homeopathy can present good health to 
                        women in all stages of their lives from infancy through 
                        old age. It is of assistance in all sorts of emotional, 
                        mental and physical problems that a woman is likely to 
                        experience, and can help her through the transitional 
                        and developmental milestones of her life. Where Can I Learn More? Contact the AMCH Clinic or Neepa Sevak if you are interested in scheduling an 
                        appointment. ____________________________________________________ About the author: Neepa Sevak ( DHMS, DHom, DIHom, DHM, CCH, RSHom (NA), HMA ) is registered with the Arizona Homeopathic Board of 
                        Medical Examiners, and certified by the Council of 
                        Homeopathic certification. She is currently practicing 
                        Classical Homeopathy and is on the Board of 
                        International Affairs at the American Medical College of 
                        Homeopathy. Her mission is to “Promote Health through 
                        Homeopathy with a Holistic, Totalistic, and 
                        Individualistic approach”. Phone: (480) 363 0758 Emai