
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 18:52:01 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cinnamon Health Benefits, Nutrition Facts, Supplements And Calories Healthy Diet Plans >> Health Food >> Cinnamon Health Benefits Health Benefits Of Cinnamon Cinnamon is a spice that has been used by man for centuries. This russet colored spice was once considered as valuable as gold and silver. Grown mostly in South East Asia, it is got from the inner bark of cinnamon trees. It has a characteristic smell and flavor. Apart from being used as a spice and a condiment, there are a large number of cinnamon health benefits. Over the centuries it has been used to cure various ailments by traditional Indian and Chinese medicine. Digestive Problems: It is known to cure colds and digestive problems such as diarrhea and flatulence. It has been known to be effective against troublesome yeast infections. It is rich in the trace element manganese and also contains dietary fiber, iron and calcium. These help to soothe digestive problems and remove toxic bile salts from the body that can cause colon cancer. Alzheimer’s Disease: They are also being explored to see if it could be a cure for Alzheimer’s disease. Studies have also shown that smelling cinnamon helps boost brain activity. Cinnamon also contains a substance called cinnamaldehyde that prevents unnecessary blood clotting that can lead to a stroke or a heart problem. Sexual Problems: As evidenced by ancient Ayurvedic practices, it's benefits for men include the treatment of infertility and erectile dysfunctions. Balding: It has also been used as a cure for balding. This however, is yet to be substantiated by research today. Women’s Health: Cinnamon benefits for women include fighting of vaginal yeast infections and thrush due to its antifungal and antibacterial properties. Ancient Chinese medicine also used it as a cure for painful menstrual cramps. Studies also suggest that cinnamon for diabetes treatment is extremely beneficial. Diabetes: Studies have shown that cinnamon can lower blood cholesterol and is beneficial to patients with type 2 diabetes. It works in bringing down blood sugar levels and is especially good for people suffering type 2 diabetes. Taking half a teaspoon of cinnamon on a daily basis is said to bring down blood sugar levels significantly. It is, however, advisable to consult your doctor before taking cinnamon for your diabetes. In some cases, blood sugar may fall below the required level if cinnamon is taken along with prescribed medication. Cholesterol: Studies have also been positive about reducing cholesterol using cinnamon. Having half a teaspoon a day, has been shown to reduce LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol and triglycerides in our bodies. However, it should not be substituted for cholesterol medication, but can be taken as a supplement after consulting your doctor. It contains very little sodium, cholesterol and saturated fat. The combination of calcium and fiber has multiple uses. Firstly, it can break down bile salts that harm the colon cells in our body. It does this using cholesterol, which leads to lessening of cholesterol levels in the body. By breaking it down, it helps prevent against colon cancer. Cancer: Research has revealed that cinnamon has reduced the growth of leukemia cancer cells. Even arthritic pain is known to be significantly reduced by it's regular intake. Nutrition Facts About Cinnamon Cinnamon nutrition contains many valuable elements that can benefit our  bodies. It contains calcium, iron, manganese, fiber, and vitamins C and  K. Nutrition facts reveal that a tablespoon of cinnamon contains  78 mg of calcium, 4.1 gm of fiber, 0.3 gm of protein, and 6.3 gm of  carbohydrate. It has 19 calories. Antioxidants: Cinnamon nutritional benefits include high levels of antioxidants, possibly the highest in any spice. This is helpful in fighting against aging and cancer. Manganese: Manganese helps as an antioxidant and also assists in collagen production, which directly correlates to better bone health. Vitamins: It contains small amounts of vitamin A and K, which are needed for growth, immunity, blood clotting, and bone health. Uses Of Cinnamon Supplements Cinnamon nutritional supplements can be taken as capsules or in its powder or stick form. Other than having a great aroma and a rich spicy taste, cinnamon also boasts of a variety of health benefits. Cinnamon supplements benefits include being able to treat common colds as well as coughs. Tummy troubles like flatulence and diarrhea can also be remedied by cinnamon. Cinnamon supplements boast of a large amount of antioxidants that prevents the risk of heart disease as well as the onset of cancer. It also has useful amounts of calcium, manganese, iron and fiber. Taking regulated doses of cinnamon supplements can give our bodies a good mix of nutrients. Side Effects: As we are aware of the health benefits of cinnamon, it is also, a good idea to acquaint ourselves with cinnamon supplements side effects. Though it is considered safe, we must avoid consuming it orally in large doses. This may irritate the mouth and cause blisters. People with stomach ulcers may experience problems as it may aggravate the sensitive stomach lining. Cinnamon is also known as a hot herb, and should therefore be administered carefully to people with fever or high blood pressure. People on blood thinning medication need to consult a doctor before taking these supplements. Pregnant mothers should avoid taking concentrated doses of the cinnamon supplement as this may cause harm to the fetus. Breast feeding mothers should avoid it too. Cinnamon oils should never be taken orally, as this may be detrimental to the body. If you are allergic to cinnamon you may have difficulty breathing or break out into rashes and hives once you consume the spice. It is best to immediately call for the doctor if you experience these effects, as severe allergy can also put your life at risk. Dosage: Cinnamon supplements dosage can be between one to two tablets daily after consulting with your doctor. Having between half to one teaspoon of ground cinnamon a day, mixed with a beverage or sprinkled over food also works. Cinnamon oil, which contains an extremely concentrated form of cinnamon, should be used in moderation as an excess can cause painful swellings. Calories In Cinnamon Calories in cinnamon are about 19 per tablespoon, of which 2 calories come from fat. Cinnamon calorie information includes about 6 gm of carbohydrate, 4.1 gm of fiber, and very little protein. Cinnamon calorie value indicates that it is a healthy food, as it not only contains less fat but has important vitamins and mineral for our body. Submitted on September 30, 2011 Related Articles Calories Cinnamon | Cinnamon Roll Nutrition Introduction: Cinnamomum zeylanicum or Cinnamomum cassia are the Latin names for the common cinnamon Making Blends Spices | Blend Spices Spice Blend Spices Curry Powder - Dried Herbs And Spices That Spice Up Your FoodsSpice blends not only add Calorie Burning Foods Burn Holiday Fat Fruits Vegetables The holidays are a time when most people indulge in too many sweet treats or miss too many workouts Natural Supplements | Natural Supplements Weight Loss Natural SupplementsIn today’s world all people are trying to use natural products, whether it Excessive Menstruation Pain Healing Diet | Diet Tips Menstruation Pains Excessive Menstruation Pain Treatment And Natural CuresAlmost all women experience some amount of Features Archive 15 Slimming Foods for the Summer | Diet Plan | Cooling Foods | fruits and salads - May, 2010 Bratty Diet - Banana, Rice, Applesauce, Tea, Toast, Yogurt Diet - Mar, 2010 List of 21 Fresh Fruits And Vegetables For Fresh Healthy Nutrition - Nov, 2009 Fruits And Vegetables Nutrition Facts And Health Benefits - Jul, 2009 Cool Summer Food Ideas With Easy Summer Foods - May, 2009 21 Right Foods For Weight Reduction - Mar, 2009 51 Healthy Foods To Eat For Healthy Living - Feb, 2009 Healthy Winter Foods and Nutrition for Healthy Living - Jan, 2009 Related Topics Stubborn belly fat | Reducing belly fat | Reduce belly fat Ground cinnamon | Cinnamon Ground Dietary tips Heartburn Peptic ulcers Mini Cinnamon Muffins Recipe | Mini Cupcake Recipes Healthy Muffin Ingredients Baked Cinnamin Pumpkin Recipe Dessert Newsletter Sign-up Top Searches diets to lose weight carotene vitamin healthy food recipes tuberculosis diet cabbage soup diets foods containing vitamin b complex carbohydrate food list diet chart to gain weight egg nutrition diet for heart patients Get Current News Cinnamon Health Benefits Follow us on Copyright © 2011 Waterfront Media, Inc. Terms of Use | Sitemap The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy . Search: Healthy Diet 