
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 20:48:15 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.ener-chi.com/enerchiwp/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Manuka honey - Ener-Chi Wellness Center Ener-Chi Wellness Center Andreas Moritz welcomes you to the Ener-Chi Wellness Center. Your trusted source of natural healing methods. Liver and Gallbladder Flush. Search Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home Wellness Products View all Products VibeRx Style for Life – Whole Body Vibration Exerciser – BS-110B Life Ionizers Herbs For Kidney Cleanse Phytoplankton Ionized Stones Magic Dust Facial Rejuvenator Soladey Ionic Toothbrushes Brushing Techniques Research Results Testimonials from Dental Professionals Aulterra Neutralizer Colema Board Ancient Minerals Zeolite Raw Health Foods Books List View all Books by Andreas Moritz The Amazing Liver & Gallbladder Flush Timeless Secrets of Health and Rejuvenation Cancer Is Not A Disease! Vaccine-nation Simple Steps to Total Health Lifting the Veil of Duality Hear The Whispers, Live Your Dream Feel Great, Lose Weight It’s Time to Come Alive Heart Disease No More! Diabetes – No More! Ending the AIDS Myth Heal Yourself with Sunlight Foreign Editions Ener-Chi Art Ener-Chi Art Ener-Chi Art Pictures Viewing Instructions Sacred Santémony Resources Articles by Andreas Can You trust Chemotherapy to Heal Your Cancer ? Cancer is Not a Disease Does your Liver Need an Overhaul ? Ener-Chi Art – New Medicine for the Body, Mind and Soul Heal Your Soul to Heal Your Life Heal Yourself With Sunlight How Infection Can Prevent and Cure Cancer Make Peace with Your Heart Research Reveals the Healing Power of the Mind Root Cause of Fibromyalgia Syndrome and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Vaccination Programs under Scrutiny Your Health is in Your Hands The Illusion of Disease Dangers of Dehydration Alarming Consequences of Vaccinating Children Positive Expectation – A Medical Miracle? Articles in German Frequently Asked Questions Links to Helpful Websites List of Suppliers Newsletters Interviews with Andreas Free Health Information Health Blog About Andreas Testimonials Contact Contact Us Customer Service Wholesale Place Wholesale Order Disclaimer Affiliates Tag Archives: Manuka honey Honey – The World’s Best Wound Healer Posted on January 18, 2012 by andreas m By Andreas Moritz Would you have ever guessed that this delicious food made by honeybees is actually one of mankind’s oldest-known medicines? Dating as far back as 5,000 years, honey has been successfully used to treat burns, coughs and ulcers. Hippocrates, the Greek physiciana, also praised honey’s healing powers and came up with many honey-based treatments for ailments such as skin disorders, ulcers and sores. In World War I, German physicians used a mixture of honey and cod liver oil to treat gunshot wounds. According to John Riddle, professor of ancient science at North Carolina State University, a medical text written on papyrus from 3000 years B.C. specifies the use of honey for head wounds. He says that perhaps “the honey helped prevent swelling and sealed off the wound to keep air and infection out”. Recent research shows that honey is far superior to antiseptics and antibiotics. Israeli researchers took honey to the test. They applied the sweet, sticky food twice a day to wounds of nine infants after two weeks of intravenous antibiotic treatment and daily antiseptic cleansing failed to heal them. Following just five days of honey treatment, the babies’ wounds improved significantly. After 16 more days, they were closed, clean, and sterile. In a Yemeni study, honey was shown to have a significant advantage over antiseptics used for infected surgical wounds. 50 women whose wounds became infected were divided into 2 groups. One group was treated with honey, the other with antiseptics. The patients in the honey group recovered within 7 to 11 days, whereas the antiseptic group needed 12 to 27 days. Although modern creams and antibiotics may have healing effects, they have the disadvantage of killing tissue and causing scabs and scars. But how many of us would think of putting honey under that Band-Aid or bandage? Like in the above studies, results of a three-year clinical trial at the University Teaching Hospital in Calabar, Nigeria, showed that unprocessed honey can heal wounds when more modern dressings and antibiotic treatments fail. In 59 patients treated for wounds and external ulcers, honey was effective in all but one case. Much to the surprise of the researchers, topical applications kept sterile wounds sterile until they had time to heal, while infected wounds became sterile within a week. Astonishingly, honey was even shown to remove dead tissue from persistent wounds, helping some patients avoid skin grafts or amputations. According to the European Journal of Medical Research, topical honey proved to have positive effects on post-operative wound infections due to gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria following Caesarean sections and hysterectomies. “Honey provides a moist healing environment, yet prevents bacterial growth even when wounds are heavily infected,” notes Dr. Peter Molan of the Honey Research Unit at the University of Waikato, New Zealand. “It is a very effective means of quickly rendering heavily infected wounds sterile, without the side effects of antibiotics, and it is even effective against antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria.” The reason honey is able to stop infection may actually be quite simple. Ordinary honey ties up water so that bacteria in a wound have insufficient water to multiply. The water activity of honey inhibits bacterial growth. In addition, the pH of honey is between 3.2 and 4.5 – low enough to inhibit the growth of many common bacteria. The major antibacterial activity in honey, however, is thought to be due to hydrogen peroxide, which is produced enzymatically. The level of hydrogen peroxide produced is antibacterial, but doesn’t damage the cell tissues. In July 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration – believe it or not – gave Derma Sciences, a New Jersey-based manufacturer of wound-care products, clearance to sell Manuka wound and burn dressings as medical devices. Now Manuka honey can officially be used in wound and burn care in the United States. Manuka honey has already been used as wound dressing for several years in Great Britain, Australia, and its native New Zealand. Canada also approved it for use as an antimicrobial dressing in early 2007. Honey used to be a standard conventional therapy in fighting infection up until the early 20th century. With the advent of penicillin, knowledge of honey’s powerful healing ability began to fade from public awareness, and doctors were simply too excited over using the new miracle drug. Compared to other types of honey, Manuka has an extra ingredient with antimicrobial qualities, called the Unique Manuka Factor (UMF), according to an article published in the Washington Post August 7, 2007. Apparently, the higher the concentration of UMF, the darker, thicker and more expensive the honey is. In this situation, it may pay off to use the most expensive honey available. However, even ordinary natural honey has amazing healing properties. Applications: Apply honey to cuts, scrapes, or burns and cover with a clean bandage. Change dressings one to three times daily, as needed. Use honey as a first-aid dressing material where there could be time for infection to set in before medical treatment is obtained. For internal disinfection and as a preventative measure, every morning, drink a glass of warm water with a teaspoon of honey and a little lemon juice. Honey also has sleep-inducing, sedative and tranquilizing properties. Nursing salve: Nursing mothers, try covering cracked, sore nipples with honey-soaked gauze to prevent infection. For heartburn, take 1 teaspoon of raw honey mixed with 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar. Note: Excessive heat (don’t cook or bake with it) or prolonged exposure to light can rob honey of its antibacterial properties. Always store in a dark, cool place. —————————— This is an excerpt from my book TIMELESS SECRETS OF HEALTH & REJUVENATION —————————— You may share or republish this article provided you clearly mention the name of Andreas Moritz and paste a hyper link back to the web page Posted in Articles, book excerpts and Videos by Andreas Moritz , Food , Nutrition , Timeless Health Secrets | Tagged healing properties of honey , honey , honey a natural antiseptic , honey for wounds and cuts , Manuka honey | Home | About Andreas | Wellness Products | Books List | Health Blog | Affiliates | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Customer Service | List of Suppliers | Wholesale © Copyri