
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 09:52:07 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gene Therapy - used, first, blood, body, produced, uses, function, Three Types of Therapy Powered by
			
				JRank Medical Discoveries Medical Discoveries » Enz-Ho » Gene Therapy Gene therapy Gene therapy is a new field in which normal genes are given to patients to
      cure genetic disorders. Some successes have occurred, as well as some
      failures. But researchers believe that gene therapy shows promise, because
      this approach to disease treats the root of the disease instead of just
      its symptoms. Three Types of Therapy Three types of therapy currently exist. In gene replacement therapy, a
      mutant gene is replaced with a normal gene. In gene augmentation therapy, 
       a normal gene is added but the mutant gene is not removed. And in gene
      inactivation therapy, a gene is added that will cancel the effects of the
      defective gene. Sometimes combined to produce the desired cure, the type
      or types of therapy selected depend on many factors, including whether the
      actual genetic defect can be pinpointed exactly. Body Must Be Tricked to Accept Cloned Genes The point of gene therapy is twofold. First, the gene must be cloned
      (created), or engineered. This process is also known as recombinant DNA
      technology (first performed in 1972). Secondly, the normal gene must be
      introduced into the patient's chromosomes. The body, hoever,
      actually regards the cloned "normal" gene as foreign, so the
      it must be tricked into accepting the cure. Of the various methods tried, the most efficient technique uses an RNA
      virus called a retrovirus. The retrovirus infects the patient's
      cells, then copies its DNA into the patient's DNA. The first human gene therapy was approved for clinical trial in the United
      States in May 1989. At the end of 1992, at least 37 gene therapy projects
      were completed, in progress, or approved in China, France, Italy, the
      Netherlands, and the United States. Each country has its own approval
      process, designed to protect the patient, the health workers, and the
      public. By mid-1995 the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and
      Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America reported increased
      efforts in this field. U.S. companies had 57 projects underway, 12
      projects completed, and 18 pending, while drug companies had 17 therapies
      in development. In the United States, each procedure must be approved by the director of
      the NIH, by the NIH Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, and by the U.S.
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Therapy Trials Gene therapy trials have included severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)
      and malignant melanoma. SCID is a rare disease that prevents the
      person's immune system from functioning. This well-publicized study
      concerned the teenager named David who lived for several years in a
      plastic bubble to protect him from infection. Some cases of SCID result from ADA deficiency, a genetic mutation that
      prevents lymphocytes from producing the enzyme adenosine deaminase (ADA).
      Lymphocytes are white, or nearly colorless, cells in the blood and lymph
      systems produced either by the bone marrow (B cells) 
       or by the thymus (T cells). T cell lymphocytes are the major players in
      the body's immune system, which does not develop normally without
      the enzyme ADA. In September 1990 NIH researchers R. Michael Blaese and W. French Anderson
      performed the world's first gene therapy on a four-year-old child
      with SCID. A normal gene for ADA was inserted into a virus and allowed to
      "infect" lymphocytes that had been withdrawn from the
      child's body. Then the girl was injected with the altered cells.
      During the next 18 months, the patient had several series of injections,
      along with other treatment. A second patient, a nine-year-old girl, had
      similar treatments. The cells encouraged production of ADA in both
      children, who attended school, had only the normal number of infections,
      and reportedly experienced no side effects. Since then similar treatments
      have been used on children in other countries. Many gene therapy studies have been completed or are underway for various
      cancers. In a study of the skin cancer melanoma, doctors withdrew a sample
      of the patient's own cells, inserted an altered gene, and returned
      the new cells to the patient. The purpose of this procedure is to
      introduce a protein that will kill the melanoma tumor. Cystic Fibrosis Study Yields Few Results A gene therapy study for the lung disease cystic fibrosis began in 1992.
      The therapy calls for inserting a needed gene into an engineered cold
      virus (the virus is altered so that it will not cause a cold), which the
      patients inhale. The gene enters the lung and improves cell function,
      preventing the production of the mucus (a slimy secretion) that blocks a
      patient's breathing. The genes performed precisely under laboratory conditions, but in human
      studies, less than one percent of patients achieved the desired results.
      The results are not considered to be sufficient enough to be promising. Further Research Another study concerned familial hypercholesterolemia, a condition in
      which patients lack a gene for disposing of harmful low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (the so-called "bad" cholesterol).
      These patients develop a build-up of this low-density cholesterol in their
      bodies. People lacking both copies of the gene usually die from a heart
      attack in their early teens. Some-one with only one copy suffers from
      severe coronary (heart) disease. Scientists at several medical centers are
      studying insertion of the needed gene into cells from a patient's
      liver, then injecting the cells into the person's body. Scientists in China are studying the bleeding disease hemophilia B, which
      occurs in people whose blood lacks clotting Factor IX. Researchers are
      attempting to engineer cells with this factor. Studies are also underway
      on gene therapy for AIDS, liver failure, leukemia, brain tumor, various
      cancers, rheumatoid arthritis, Gaucher's disease (a metabolic
      disorder), and various other inherited diseases. [See also Cloning ; Enzyme ; Gene ; Genetic Engineering ] User Contributions: 1 shirley berryhill Apr 4, 2006 @ 10:10 am i really liked this impotmation on the discoveries on this todays Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic: Name: E-mail: Display email publicly Security Code: Comment:&nbsp (50-4000 characters) Gene Therapy f