Vary: Accept-Encoding, User-Agent

Stress Management Self Hypnosis Program Product Search Checkout Home Track Your Order Site Map Search by Keyword Search Specials Shopping Basket Items: 0 Subtotal: $0.00 Note: All prices in US Dollars Home › Order Now Stress Free CD BUY NOW! Click to enlarge image(s) Create Positive Change in Your Life. Do You Suffer From Stress? From the time you lose perspective and become overcome by the feeling of stress and anxiety, stress and strain eat away at your mind and body until it becomes impossible to cope. You’ve always wanted to take control of your mind, but there are moments you just can’t cope with anxiety and you lose perspective.  Would you want the ability to consciously take control in these moments? Ultimately, you realize the importance of tackling the problems that make you feel stressed. You realize that good mental health plays an important role in your overall health and well-being. Stress means different things to different people, yet often people don't know when it's appropriate to seek answers.   The fact that you are reading this now is indication that you are on your way to overcoming the stress in your life. Our Stress Free CD will teach your mind how to gain control when stressful moments arise.  You will learn how to instantly snap your mind and body back to a calm place that allows you the freedom and strength to face any situation you confront. You will realize that your mind attracts what you feel. Learn to reverse the negative effects of stress and instead impress your mind with powerful visions of what you choose to attract to your life. All you need to do is use the Stress Free CD and results will follow thereafter.   Learn to use stress to become conscious, to take the situations you once feared and now see as an opportunity to transcend your past reactions.  Each experience you now confront will be a chance to practice your new found abilities. May we recommend you get the Meditation CD also.  The Meditation CD will help teach you the basic tools to mastering your thoughts.  This simple technique you will learn teaches you the secret to mastering your inner thought process.  As the thought process is mastered, you then will multiply the power of the Stress Free CD as well as the other self-hypnosis CD’s we offer. We 100% guarantee the self help CD’s we offer.  All we ask is that you use them! Thoughts are things.  What you think, you become. SKU FPC-004 Weight 0.13 lb Price $ 19 . 95 Qty Add to Cart Click Add to Cart to order this product. Email contact@freemindcenter.com with any questions about this or any of our other products. Smoke Free Self Hypnosis CD The Free Mind Center provides quit smoking information and a Stop Smoking program to help smokers stop smoking. Recognized by the American Medical Association, hypnotherapy is the only effective, craving free and permanent way to become a non smoker. Hypnosis will help you quit smoking.

Our program will teach you how to quit smoking with our Stop Smoking program.  All you need to do is listen to our CD and follow the simple things we ask you to do and you will become a non smoker. Price $ 19 . 95 More info ► Sleep Easy Transformation CD Pack (25% OFF) If you're having trouble sleeping at night because of the bills, kids or anything else, try our Sleep Easy Transformation CD Pack today! Guaranteed results within 21 days. This pack contains: Meditation CD, Stress Free CD, Sleep CD. Sale Price $ 45 . 00 More info ► 1 2 3 4 5 6 Copyright © Francisco Production Co., LLC. Westbrook, CT UCC 1-308 All 