
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 00:48:18 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (EL)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.16
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 00:48:18 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Developing job aids to increase adherence to an antibiotic regimen in children with pneumonia in Niger | USAID Health Care Improvement Portal Follow Us Search this site: Home About HCI Improvement Topics Improvement Tools Improvement Database Communities « Back Why Register? Register Login Developing job aids to increase adherence to an antibiotic regimen in children with pneumonia in Niger Author(s): Edson WN | Boucar M | Koniz-Booher P | Djibrina S | Mahamane I Organization: Quality Assurance Project/URC Region and Country: Africa, Sub Saharan , Niger Year: 2004 Language: English Description: The development of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) has increased the worldwide threat of infectious disease. Strategies to curb the development of AMR include improving (1) patient counseling and (2) antibiotic regimen adherence. The purpose of this study was to develop job aids to enhance parental compliance with antibiotic regimens (specifically cotrimoxazole) for the treatment of pneumonia in children in the Dosso Region, Boboye District, of Niger. As a first step, a qualitative methodology was used to assess parental knowledge of respiratory infection, medications (specifically antibiotic therapy), traditional remedies, healthseeking behavior, cultural beliefs about wellness and illness, traditional dissemination of information, and the appropriate way to deliver a message to caretakers of children. Observation of health center activities included patient counseling, availability and/or quality of counseling materials, and the number and duration of antibiotic stock outs. The findings of the first step were presented in a workshop for Ministry of Health personnel in Niger. Workshop participants developed key messages, which resulted in several ideas for job aids for both health workers and caretakers. These ideas included a counseling card and poster for health workers and a medication envelope with images from the counseling card/poster for mothers. Draft versions were tested, modified, and retested prior to production. (author's) Link: NigerJobAids.pdf Link: Summary. Developing job aids to increase adherence to an antibiotic regimen in children with pneumonia in Niger..pdf United States Agency for International Development (USAID) • University Research Co., LLC (URC) • Center for Communication Programs (CCP) EnCompass LLC • Family Health International (FHI) • Health Research, Inc. (HRI) • Initiatives Inc. • Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) View our detailed sitemap .   For more information or to report problems with the site, please contact hci-info@urc-chs.com Suggest a resource for the database. This web site is made possible by the support of the American people through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and its bureau for Global Health Office of Health, Infectious Diseases and Nutrition. The information provided on this web site is not official U.S. Government information and does not represent the views or positions of the U.S. 