
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 05:22:35 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (CentOS)
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Benefits Of "Magnesium" Supplements Benefits Of "Magnesium" Supplements Links Of Interest LOW-FAT RECIPES Contact Us BLOG Benefits Of “Magnesium” Supplements Benefits Signs Of Deficiency Food Sources Herbal Sources View video on what magnesium can do for you. Food sources containing magnesium. Search this site Chelated Magnesium 250 MG 90 Tabs Magnesium Citrate 90 caps MAGNESIUM 400 mg 180 Caps Magnesium Malate 1250 mg 100 Caps Magnesium is used to treat angina , anxiety , cardiovascular disease , chronic fatigue syndrome , constipation , diabetes , fibromyalgia , glaucoma , insomnia , migraine headaches and PMS . It also helps lower blood pressure and protect against heart disease. Magnesium plays a crucial role in several vital processes. It is needed to build strong bones and produce essential amino acids. It also activates some of the enzymes that transfers and releases energy in the muscles. Other vital functions include the conduction of nerve impulses to the muscles and adjustment to different environmental temperatures, especially cold. The best way to consume the daily requirement of this dietary mineral is by eating a varied diet that includes green vegetables and whole grains. A balanced diet provides all the magnesium that is normally needed for good health. SIGNS OF DEFICIENCY: Magnesium deficiency is very rare in the United States, occurring mostly among people with severe kidney disease or in alcoholics. Use of diuretics also can deplete the body of magnesium. Signs of deficiency include loss of appetite, leg cramps , muscle tremors and twitches , irregular heartbeat, weakness and lethargy, personality changes, nausea and vomiting, seizures (especially in children) difficulty in adjusting to temperature change (especially when going from warm to cold), and a variety of complex metabolic disturbances. Excessive consumption of magnesium can lead to a serious condition called hyper-magnesia.  It would be difficult if not impossible, to develop this condition from diet alone, but taking high dose magnesium supplements can be dangerous. Overloading the body with magnesium can effect the way nerve impulses are transmitted to the muscles. This results in an inability to properly contract and relax muscle fibers. In severe cases, low blood pressure and even cardiac arrest may occur. Kidney patients are at particular risk of serious complications from excessive intake. Supplements should not be taken unless recommended by a doctor. As with any nutritional supplement , magnesium supplements should be used in amounts typically recommended for nutritional purposes only. MAGNESIUM RICH FOODS: Apples, apricots, bananas, brown rice, beans, dairy products, dark green vegetables, garlic , fish, nuts, whole grains, wheat bran, meat, fish, scallops and oysters. HERBAL SOURCES: Alfalfa , blue cohosh , chamomile , dandelion , gotu kola , hawthorn , horsetail , kelp , licorice , mullein , peppermint , raspberry , skullcap and stinging nettle . MAGNESIUM - TOP Video Home Actions Of Herbs Ailment / Herb Herbs-Benefits Alfalfa Aloe Vera Angelica Astragalus Balm Basil Black Cohosh Blue Cohosh Buckthorn Burdock Camphor Cascara Sagrada Chamomile Chaparral Cinnamon Coltsfoot Comfrey Dandelion Dong Quai Eyebright Fennel Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Gotu Kola Hawthorn Horsetail Kelp/Bladderwrack Licorice Meadowsweet Mint Mullein Passion Flower Psyllium Purslane Red Raspberry Rhubarb Rosemary Saw Palmetto Senna Shepherd's Purse Skullcap Stinging Nettle Tea Thyme Valerian White Willow Herbal Preparations & Uses Dietary Minerals Calcium Copper Iron Magnesium Manganese Potassium Selenium Silicon Sodium Zinc Benefits Of Exercise Growing Herbs Remedies for Pets Vitamins Vitamin B9 Folic Acid Vitamin B12 Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E V