
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 09:50:16 GMT
Server: Jetty(6.1.25)
Expires: Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Set-Cookie: view_tracker=94;Path=/;Expires=Mon, 11-Mar-2013 09:50:16 GMT
Connection: close

Insomnia Treatment: Mind | FoundHealth Sign In Sign Up Help Contact Us Find Home Health Challenges Treatments Contributors About Us Blog Insomnia What is it? Overview Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Prevention Resources View All 9 Treatments Medicine Insomnia and Antidepressants Insomnia and Over-the-counter Medications Insomnia and Sleeping Pills Herbs Insomnia and Aromatherapy Insomnia and Chamomile Insomnia and Valerian Diet Insomnia and Melatonin Body Insomnia and Acupuncture Insomnia and Exercise Mind Spirit Answers FoundHealth will send you weekly updates on new content in this area. You can opt out at any time. The number to the right of the Follow button shows how many people are currently following this topic. Insomnia > Insomnia Treatment: Mind Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Click Wheel to discover your Treatment options Sign up to receive your FREE toolkit from Dr. Mark Hyman Tune your body now! Subscribe Now! We never spam or sell your e-mail People Who Read This Also Read... Insomnia and Acupuncture Insomnia Resources Insomnia and Melatonin Want Answers? Ask Question FoundHealth on Facebook FoundHealth on Twitter Ask Insomnia Treatment: Mind Written by ritasharma , maria_rn , sshowalter . Overview | Treatments Changing sleep habits and treating underlying conditions that cause insomnia can restore restful sleep for many people. If such measures don't work, your doctor may recommend medications to help with relaxation and sleep. While medicines are effective, experts do not deny the effectiveness of behavior approaches in managing insomnia. It has been found that behavioral treatment are equally or more effective than sleep medications. Behavior therapies are recommended as the first line of treatment for insomnia. Behavioral treatments entail teaching you new sleep behaviors as well as ways to make your environment more conducive for sleep. Behavior therapies include: Sleep hygiene education - This involves correcting basic lifestyle habits that influence sleep, such as smoking and failing to exercise regularly. It also includes tips that help you sleep better, such as listening to soft music and reading. Relaxation techniques - Several studies have proven that relaxation is very effective for people with insomnia. Relaxation studies such as progressive muscle relaxation, biofeedback and breathing exercises are ways to lessen anxiety at bedtime. These techniques help you control your breathing, heart rate, muscle tension and mood. Cognitive therapy - This treatment approach has emerged as an effective alternative to sleeping pills, even for people with persistent sleep problems. This method helps you control or eliminate negative thoughts and worries that keep you awake by replacing worries about not sleeping with more positive thoughts. Cognitive therapy can be done through one-on-one counseling or in group sessions. 'Stimulus control' - This means limiting the time you spend awake in bed by disassociating negative thoughts you attach to your bed and bedroom environment. You may be coached that bed should only be associated with sleep or sex. Sleep restriction - The purposes of this method is to decrease the time you spend in bed. The partial sleep deprivation will make you more tired the next night. Your time in bed will be gradually increased as your sleep improves. Treating insomnia may require combining a number of behavioral treatment methods. The downside of behavioral therapy is that it requires consistent practice and some may not cause you to initially lose sleep. Nevertheless, this drug-free approach has been proven to restore sleep of many insomnia sufferers. Click Here to See All 9 Treatments for Insomnia FoundHealth has 9 treatments for Insomnia! See all Insomnia Treatment options and start building your care plan today. Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Insomnia and Sleeping Pills Insomnia and Antidepressants Insomnia and Over-the-counter Medications Insomnia and Chamomile Insomnia and Valerian Insomnia and Aromatherapy Insomnia and Melatonin Insomnia and Acupuncture Insomnia and Exercise Insomnia Treatment: Mind Insomnia Treatment: Spirit Share 0 Comments No one has made any comments yet.  Be the first! Your Comment Preview Post Comment Preview Post Comment Link to Existing article Search Home | About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy © 2012
 FoundHealth, Inc. All rights reserved. FoundHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Receive weekly updates on topics of your interest. Share your experiences on treatments that you have tried or prescribed. Ask or Answer a question within our community. Create a FoundHealth Contributor profile to highlight your health expertise. As a welcome gift, we will send you the complete e-book Give Yourself a Biologic Tune-Up by Dr. Mark Hyman . Already have an account? Sign In ! Email Address * We promise that we will not spam or share your information. Password * At least 6 characters Confirm Password * Enter code shown * I agree to the FoundHealth Terms o