Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Honey Milk Bath Honey Milk Bath These recipes for a Honey Milk Bath come from a time when Queen Cleopatra had the best of everything... Cleopatra's Beauty Secrets By Danielle Sims The Legendary Queen of Egypt was known for her exquisite complexion. One of her secret beauty treatments, the milk and honey bath are still being used today. One of the main ingredients, Milk, contains lactic acid, which helps to exfoliate your skin. The lactic acid in milk is an alpha hydroxy acid, which helps to cleanse the deepest layers of the skin. Honey has an abundance of health properties.  First of all, it is composed of sugars like glucose and fructose so it is also a gentle alpha hydroxy acid. It’s made up of both minerals and vitamins to help nourish and heal the skin. Since it also contains phytochemicals that kill viruses, bacteria, and fungus, it’s has a natural anti-inflammatory effect which heals wounds quickly. This makes honey a good substitute for wound dressings. Here are a couple of ways to enjoy these 2 main ingredients found in her ancient beauty secrets. Cleopatra Honey & Milk Bath Ingredients •	1/2 Cup Powdered Milk •	1/2 Cup Raw Honey •	2 teaspoon Jojoba Oil (optional) Mix ingredients in a large bowl and pour your warm bath. Soak for up to 20 minutes to infuse these beneficial ingredients in your skin. This recipe makes enough for one bath. Milk & Honey Rinse for Wrinkled Skin Ingredients •	1 oz  raw honey •	1 Cup skim milk •	2 teaspoons aloe vera gel Combine Ingredients in a jar and shake well. Apply to your face morning and evening with a cotton ball. Store mixture in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Incorporating these beauty recipes in your daily regime will help you to experience healthy, vibrant, and ageless skin. Danielle Sims explored her library of alternative health, herbal books, and aromatherapy books and created a blueprint for making her own body wrap formulas at home. Now she offers this information in an e-book entitled Wrap Yourself Slim: Body Wrap Exposed . Monthly newsletter is also available at her web site. For more information go to Body Wraps Exposed Article Source: http://ezinearticles.com Do you have a good honey milk bath recipe? I would be glad to add it!! Homemade Skin Care Recipes Honey Milk Bath Bath Recipes This is the season for a good warm bath. Two oils that are good to use in the bath are Grapeseed oil and Sunflower seed oil. I am looking for homemade recipes that you are using so send them in. Send In Your 