
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 22:10:17 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.vein-treatment.net/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Vein treatment: varicose veins, spider veins Vein Treatment varicose vein, vein treatment, spider vein Main menu: Laser vein treatment Vein Treatment News Vein Treatment Spider Vein Treatment Varicose vein treatment Thread veins treatment Deep vein thrombosis Spider veins articles Varicose veins articles Recommended Resources Hemorrhoids treatment Herpes treatment Skin treatment Site search Web Vein treatment Vein Treatment News & Articles Deep vein thrombosis (6) Hemorrhoids Treatment (6) Herpes (5) Sclerotherapy (6) Spider veins (7) Varicose veins (18) Vein treatment (25) Videos (21) We recommend laparoscopic prostate surgery microdermabrasion facials stem cell transplant New minimally invasive treatment for varicose veins Minimally invasive procedure designed to treat varicose veins caused by Venous Reflux Disease is now offered by North Suburban Medical Center, which is a 157-bed licensed hospital with 550 physicians on staff. Hospital which is located in Thornton, CO, offers cardiovascular services, critical care and emergency medical services; surgical services; MRI, mammography and other diagnostic imaging services. What is Venous Reflux Disease ? It develops when the valves that keep blood flowing out of the legs and back to the heart become damaged or diseased. As a result, vein valves will not close properly, typically leading to symptoms that include: varicose veins, pain, skin ulcers and swollen, fatigued legs. Radiofrequency vein ablation is a less painful, outpatient procedure. The procedure, which aim is to re-route blood flow from troublesome veins to healthy veins, takes approximately 40 minutes and allows patients to resume everyday activities quicker, usually within one to two days. Posted: September 28th, 2006 under Varicose veins , Vein treatment . Comments: none Acupuncture treatment of Varicose Veins Acupuncture is ancient treatment method which has very good effects on varicose veins. According to the Chinese medical theory, varicose veins are caused by stagnant blood. Acupuncture can improve the blood circulation effectively. Read more about Acupuncture treatment of Varicose Veins Posted: September 7th, 2006 under Varicose veins , Vein treatment . Comments: 1 Ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy for varicose veins In standard sclerotherapy a liquid sclerosant (medicine) is injected into the veins to block them. In foam sclerotherapy, a foam made by mixing a liquid sclerosant with air or another gas is used instead. The foam is injected into the affected vein to fill it. Read more about Foam Sclerotherapy Posted: September 7th, 2006 under Sclerotherapy , Spider veins . Comments: none Varicose veins Varicose veins are the largest ropy veins seen especially on the legs. They often look like cords and appear twisted and bulging. Varicose veins, which are are deeper and larger than spider veins, typically 3 mm or more in diameter, develop slowly, but once they start they progress. Human veins have a series of valves to keep blood flowing back towards the heart. If the valves fail, the blood flows in reverse – into the superficial veins and down the leg. As a result, the veins enlarge and become varicose. Varicose veins hold more blood at higher pressure than normal, forcing fluid into surrounding tissue. As a result, the leg swells and feels heavy. Varicose veins are one of the most common problems of blood vessels . Approximately 40 million people in the United States have varicose veins. Varicose veins are common in older adults (Most people with varicose veins are between ages 30 and 60), especially women (the condition occurs four times more often in women than in men). It is estimated that in USA about 19% of men and 36% of women have varicose veins. Normal veins have one-way valves that allow blood to flow upward only to return to the heart and lungs. A varicose vein has valves that are not functioning properly. The blood can flow upwards, but tends to pool in the vein because of valve dysfunction. Here you can find more information about varicose vein treatment Posted: August 16th, 2006 under Varicose veins . Comments: none Sclerotherapy Sclerotherapy is an in-office medical procedure used to treat varicose and spider veins. In sclerotherapy a chemical solution (generally a salt solution) is injected into the damaged veins. The solution irritates the lining of the blood vessel, causing it to swell and stick together, and the blood to clot. Over time, the vessel turns into scar tissue that fades from view. Read more about Sclerotherapy Posted: August 9th, 2006 under Sclerotherapy . Comments: none Venous insufficiency Venous insufficiency is a condition in which the veins have problems sending blood from the legs back to the heart. When leg veins cannot pump enough blood back to heart, we are talking about chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). Read more about Venous insufficiency Posted: July 29th, 2006 under Vein treatment . Comments: none Travel related deep vein thrombosis Deep vein thrombosis is not connected only with older people. New Zealand DVT research which was accomplished in 2003 announced that 1% of long-haul air passengers suffer from Deep Vein Thrombosis. This is four people on every jumbo jet. Traveled related deep vein thrombosis is known as ‘Economy Class Syndrome.’ Read more about Travel related deep vein thrombosis Posted: July 27th, 2006 under Deep vein thrombosis , Vein treatment . Comments: none Blood vessels Blood vessels are intricate networks of tubes that transport blood throughout the entire body. Image source: www.guidant.com There are three varieties of blood vessels: arteries, veins, and capillaries. During blood circulation, the arteries carry blood away from the heart. The capillaries connect the arteries to veins and the veins carry the blood back to the heart. Back to varicose veins Posted: July 26th, 2006 under Varicose veins . Comments: none « Previous entries Next entries » © 2012 Vein Treatment | Sponsored link: Nepremičnine | Log in Brezplačne online igre | gostovanje : 
Inetia.com | erotična trgovina Disclaimer - The data contained in the Vein treatment.net web
pages is provided for the purpose of educational purposes and
information only. It is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for
professional medical advice and shall not create a physician - patient
relationship. We are not responsible for any consequence resulted from
using this information. Please alwa