
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 10:05:28 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 PHP/4.4.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 10:05:28 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Asia Sentinel - The Flap over Circumcision Skip to content Skip to main navigation Skip to 1st column Skip to 2nd column Skip to 2nd column WEB www.AsiaSentinel.com Monday Mar 12th Email Alerts Move Close Subscribe to Email Alerts: Asia Sentinel Alerts Receive HTML? Text size Asia Sentinel Already subscribed? Login here Home Politics Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma Cambodia China East Timor Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Laos Malaysia Nepal North Korea Pakistan Philippines Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Economics/Business Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma Cambodia China East Timor Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Laos Malaysia North Korea Pakistan Philippines Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Society Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma Cambodia China East Timor Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Laos Malaysia North Korea Pakistan Philippines Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Australia Opinion Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma Cambodia China East Timor India Indonesia Hong Kong Japan Laos Malaysia North Korea Pakistan Philippines Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Countries Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Burma Cambodia China East Timor Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Malaysia Nepal North Korea Pakistan Philippines Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Home Society Hong Kong The Flap over Circumcision The Flap over Circumcision Written by Our Correspondent Friday, 03 February 2012 • My god that hurt Getting to the head of things American exceptionalism takes many forms. One of the least noticed is the preference for circumcision of boys. Other than among Muslims and Jews, for whom it is a religious or at least traditional requirement, cutting off part of the penis is alien to most other cultures and usually only carried out for medical, or occasionally aesthetic, reasons. But the US is now trying to promote the practice in developing countries supposedly as a defense against AIDS. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is supporting its propagation and the World Health Organization is being urged to do the same. The theory is that circumcised men have a roughly 50 percent less chance of contracting HIV. Assuming that is the case, adult men may reasonably decide whether they are at risk and if so whether the loss of the penis foreskin and possible impact on sexual enjoyment is worth the lowering of HIV risk. But any such campaign carries with it the real danger that societies in Africa, where the AIDS prevention efforts are mostly focused, will result in the large scale circumcising of infants who have no choice in the matter. Meanwhile resources are being invested in devising new ways of making circumcision easier and less liable to the complications which arise during surgery. That at least might be a benefit given the amount of hospital time being given to circumcisions in developing Africa which would be better used for dealing with essential surgeries or spending money on other forms of AIDS prevention. Thailand is well known for having dramatically reduced AIDS infection rates but has no tradition of circumcision other than among Muslims. The US seems to assume that just because most Americans, regardless of religion, are circumcised as infants, other countries should be persuaded to do the same. What is ironic  is that this push for male circumcision is being paralleled by US support for campaigns against the female equivalent practiced in many parts of north, northeast and west Africa and which is illegal in most western countries. For sure, the practice of female genital mutilation is a gross insult to womanhood and stems from male fears of women’s sexuality. It usually involves removal of the clitoris though milder versions which only involve trimming the labia may have no more effect on ability to be aroused than the male counterpart. But male circumcision has its sexual drawbacks too. A 2002 US report in the Journal of Health Psychology stated that "the genitally intact male has thousands of fine touch receptors and other highly erogenous nerve endings—many of which are lost to circumcision, with an inevitable reduction in sexual sensation experienced by circumcised males." It cited studies reporting "female partners reported significantly greater sexual pleasure from intercourse with genitally intact men as compared with circumcised men" and "circumcised partners were significantly less happy about their sexual functioning than were genitally intact partners." The authors concluded, "intercourse is less satisfying for both partners when the man is circumcised". Indeed just as Americans are trying to promote it in Africa, it has been declining in the US itself despite the claimed  advantages of helping prevent HIV and other infections. In the 1980s it is estimated that 83 percent of newborns were circumcised but by 2005 this had fallen to 56 percent. It was particularly low in the west where Hispanic and Asian populations are concentrated. Among culturally western countries only Australia has a rate over 50 percent. In Canada it is just 20 percent and the European average is around 10 percent -- and almost zero in sexual health-conscious Scandinavian countries. It is also very low throughout Latin America. As for non-Muslim Asia it is only widely practiced in South Korea and the Philippines, both as a result of past US influence rather than older cultural norms. It is rare in China, Japan, Vietnam and Thailand (other than among Muslims) and among Hindus and Sikhs in India. Set as favorite Bookmark Email This Hits: 3219 Comments (9) Subscribe to this comment's feed ... written by mw1984,
	February 03, 2012 Look up www.intactamerica.org and you can see what Americans are starting to think about it. +8 Good article written by Jackieno,
	February 03, 2012 Thanks for such a balanced review of this topic.  Thankfully this practice is declining in the US.  However, many cut doctors have no clue about the harm and continue to push it without any good reason.  In the US, the cut and the natural men have the same rate of HIV, HPV and other STDs.  It has provided no benefit and it has caused much harm to sexual pleasure and function. +7 Excellent article by Asia Sentinel written by Intaction.org ,
	February 03, 2012 American doctors, academics, and the Gates Foundation are guilty of cultural imperialism in attempting to force their own personal beliefs about circumcision onto poor innocent inhabitants of developing countries. Circumcision is a quack remedy for HIV. Major medical associations worldwide have stated that circumcision for infants is “unnecessary,” “unethical,” and “exposes babies to needless risk for negligible benefit.” +7 Not the US as such written by Hugh7 ,
	February 03, 2012 Excellent article, but I think the push comes not so much from the US as such as from circumcised men, who don't know what they're missing and can't imagine that all men would not be better to be like them. Certainly the scientific claims about circumcision and HIV have been hailed prematurely and acted on hastily, without considering the many social factors. The protection is only claimed to be of men, from infection by women, and quite partial - not much better than a coin-toss; heads you're safe, tails no safer than usual - but reports are coming in of men and women imagining circumcision has made both sexes immune, and throwing caution to the winds.  This is a recipe for disaster. +4 Circumcision rare and declining in Australia written by Dr Robert Darby ,
	February 03, 2012 Very good sceptical article, but it is quite wrong to report that Australia has a circumcision rate of 50 per cent. The incidence of circumcision in Australia fell dramatically in the 1970s and 80s and has been below 12 per cent for many years. According to a report in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Public Health (Vol 35, No 4, 2011), the rate is currently about 12 per cent nationally, but much lower in many of the states, and continuing to decline. Australian medical authorities have discouraged the practice since 1971. The vast majority of Australian boys these days are not circumcised and would not want to be. See report at http://www.circinfo.org/news_2011.html#stats +3 This is an extraordinarily poorly researched and written article written by [him] moderator ,
	February 03, 2012 This is an extraordinarily poorly researched and written article. Although the World Health Organization may be 'being urged' to promote adult circumcision, it is not urging any countries in Asia to do so. The WHO policy recommendation is clear: "WHO/UNAIDS recommendations emphasize that male circumcision should be considered an efficacious intervention for HIV prevention in countries and regions with heterosexual epidemics, high HIV and low male circumcision prevalence." http://www.who.int/hiv/topics/malecircumcision/en/ No Asian countries meet these criteria. [him] moderator http://him.civiblog.org -1 Excellent article! written by Greg Hartley ,
	February 03, 2012 Thank you for one of the rare objective articles on male circumcision.  You are helping to educate those who might be swayed by the specious rationalization of HIV prevention.  The removal of healthy, functional erogenous tissue from a non-consenting person (infant) is a gross violation of medical ethics.  And the adults in Africa who are persuaded to choose circumcision almost never receive complete information about the loss of sexual functions and sensation.  Almost everyone who promotes circumcision is circumcised - it seems to help them accept their altered genitalia. +4 A Little (innocent) Misinformation! written by Frank OHara,
	February 04, 2012 “But the US is now trying to promote the practice in developing countries supposedly as a defense against AIDS” “The US is not trying to promote this.  A small group of US citizens is trying and the efforts are being lead by persons who have been trying to do this deception for more than 30 years. “The theory is that circumcised men have a roughly 50 percent less chance of contracting HIV. “ It’s not a theory, only a weak hypothesis .  If you don’t understand that, look up the two words. “But any such campaign carries with it the real danger” Yes, indeed!  Every year, 100 - 120 men die from “bush circumcisions in Africa.”  The traditional tribal circumcisers have been imprisoned but it is a highly profitable procedure that many are willing to take the risk of prison to practice for the profits. “will result in the large scale circumcising of infants who have no choice in the matter.” Yes, this is the American and Jewish influence.  In other parts of the world that practice circumcision, they do it much later in life. “Meanwhile resources are being invested in devising new ways of making circumcision easier and less liable to the complications which arise during surgery.” Not even in America with it’s advanced technology has it been made safe.  Every year, more than 100 infants die from the procedure.  Prior to 2009, the death toll was more than 200 infants every year but America is abandoning the practice thus the death toll has fallen.  Just five years ago, more than 60% of infants were circumcised shortly after birth and there was an average of 229 deaths annually.  By 2009, that figure had fallen to 32.5% so there has been a similar fall in the death rate. “A 2002 US report in the Journal of Health Psychology stated that "the genitally intact male has thousands of fine touch receptors and other highly erogenous nerve endings—many of which are lost to circumcision, with an inevitable reduction in sexual sensation experienced by circumcised males." Yes, and studies have also found that male circumcision shortens a man’s sexual life expectancy by seven years due to erectile dysfunction. “Among culturally western countries only Australia has a rate over 50 percent. In Canada it is just 20 percent and the European average is around 10 percent” I think you will find that the rate in Australia is actually closer to 7% than 50% and near 2% in Canada since the Canadian medical societies/government ended the funding benefit sending a strong message.  Excluding Jews and Muslims, the rate in all European countries is near 1%, not 10% as the article states.  In many of the countries, it is a fraction of 1%. +1 Intact genitals are natural and normal and a birth right written by JLR,
	February 05, 2012 "I believe the time has come to acknowledge that the practice of routine circumcision rests on the absurd premise that the only mammal in creation born in the condition that requires immediate surgical correction is the human male." ~Thomas Szasz, M.D South African Medical Journal November 2011, Vol. 101, No. 11 SAMJ The illusive promise of circumcision to prevent female-to-male HIV infection – not the way to go for South Africa http://www.samj.org.za/index.php/samj/article/view/5384/3655 “Langerin is a natural barrier to HIV-1 transmission by Langerhans cells” (Nature Medicine- 4 March 2007). This study states, “Langerhans cells (LCs) specifically express Langerin . . . LCs reside in the epidermis of the skin and in most mucosal epithelia, such as the ectocervix, ****** and foreskin . . . ” Removal of the foreskin (male circumcision) removes the langerhans cells that express langerin, the natural barrier to HIV-1 transmission. See: http://www.cirp.org/news/healthday2007-03-05/ A study in the March, 2007 issue of the “Annals of Epidemiology” found that circumcision is “likely to spread” HIV. See: http://www.afrol.com/articles/24469 A study published on June 20, 2007 found that male circumcision is overstated as a prevention tool against AIDS. This study found that the key to understanding the global spread of AIDS is the size of the infected prostitute community around the world. See: http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2007-06/plos-mco062007.php +0 Write comment Name Email Website Title Comment smaller | bigger Subscribe via email (Registered users only) I have read and agree to the Terms of Usage. Add Comment Please enable JavaScript to post a new comment [ Back ] LATEST BLOGS An Estranged Hong Kong 2012-01-19 Voltaire's Fight Against Dogma 2011-12-09 Only 10% of managers effective? What a shock! 2012-02-21 What is News? How is it created? Who defines it? 2012-01-31 Silver linings in the Silver Bird cloud? 2012-03-06 Warrant of arrest for SJAM head 2012-03-04 Inappropriate responses: cases of guilty laughter 2012-03-09 REVEALED: how kopi luwak was found 2012-03-07 TAPI Makes Some Progress 2012-02-17 Less Power Could Trip India Growth 2012-01-12 Bordeaux 2009 - Lambs to the Slaughter 2012-03-08 Comfortably Numb 2012-03-07 Donate to Asia Sentinel Enter Amount: $ CAD USD GBP AUD JPY EUR Get Asia Sentinel in your Inbox John Elliott: Riding the Elephant Crony capitalists line-up changes in UP as Rahul Gandhi stumbles Ramkinkar Baij – Anything that moved around him moved him Jairam Ramesh calls for political parties to get active in Naxalite areas Thinkers ponder what?s amiss in India ? is it jugaad? Government “in blundering retreat ” on corruption crisis Home - About Us - Advertise - C