Accept-Ranges: bytes
Date: Wed, 07 Mar 2012 00:31:18 GMT
Connection: close
Cache-Info: Object-Age=1567, hits=3, Cache-Host=hoppy.apnonline.co.nz, Backend-Host=apn121, healthy=yes

Study calls for routine circumcision - National - NZ Herald News , Change Please Select Home National World Business Sport Technology Entertainment Life & Style Travel Opinion Motoring Video In National National Politics Crime Your Views Employment Education Environment Weather Weather News Changing World Video Maori Quizzes Classifieds In Motoring Motoring Cars Hybrid Cars Auto Industry Motorsport V8 Supercars Formula One Rallying Photos and Video In Travel Travel New Zealand Australia Pacific Islands International Ask Lonely Planet Adventure City Breaks Attractions Guide Travellers' Tips Cruises In World World Australia Pacific Asia United States South America Europe Middle East Africa Natural Disasters Changing World Strange but True Photos In Sport Sport Cricket Rugby League Soccer Motor Sports Basketball Racing Golf Yachting Tennis Netball Analysis Live Scores In Opinion Opinion Your Views Cartoons Chris Rattue John Armstrong Bernard Hickey Dita de Boni Wynne Gray Audrey Young Brian Fallow Paul Holmes Kerre Woodham Fran O'Sullivan Brian Rudman In Technology Technology Internet Computers Mobile Gadgets Games ICT News Science Wired Space Mac Planet In Video Video National World Weather Watch Business Entertainment Motoring Sundae Sessions Sport Changing World Photos In Entertainment Entertainment Reviews Blogs TV Music Movies Events Guide Make My Movie Sundae Sessions Gossip Sideswipe Arts Puzzles Horoscopes In Business Business Economy KiwiSaver Markets Personal Finance Property Agriculture Small Business Analysis Comm Property In Life & Style Life & Style Fashion & Beauty Wellbeing Relationships Comment Food & Wine Recipes Viva Magazine Design & Garden Cars Restaurant Guide Herald Homes National Next Article: Favourite racing for her future Study calls for routine circumcision By Nicholas Jones 5:30 AM Wednesday Mar 7, 2012 Tweet Email Print Expand A study shows that circumcision should be carried out on all newborn boys. Photo / Thinkstock Circumcision reduces the risk of infections, cancer and other painful conditions and should be routinely carried out on newborn boys, a study claims. About 10 per cent of New Zealand's male babies are circumcised, but the Government pays for the procedure only for medical reasons, such as frequent infections. But recent research by 12 medical experts, led by Sydney University professor of medicine Brian Morris, claimed evidence in favour of infant circumcision was overwhelming. Their report showed that in uncircumcised infants, the risk of urinary tract infection and kidney inflammation was 10 times greater than those circumcised. Later in life the uncircumcised had a higher risk of prostate and penile cancer, and for HIV and syphilis the risk was three to eight times greater. But Dr Rosemary Marks, president of the NZ Paediatric Society, said while there were some "small benefits" to circumcision, they were not enough to warrant funding the procedure. "I think that's a very long bow to draw ... compared to the other priorities that we have for health care, personally this would be very low on my list of priorities. "I don't think this is something that should be offered routinely in the New Zealand public health system." She said if circumcision was carried out it was crucial the person doing it was properly trained and the correct anaesthetic used. People wanting a circumcision for religious or cultural reasons must pay about $1000 for a surgeon to perform it at a private hospital. GPs, who charge around $300, can perform circumcisions. After reviewing evidence on circumcision in 2010, the Royal Australasian College of Physicians declared "there is no medical indication for routine neonatal circumcision". Auckland paediatric surgeon James Hamill said that was the consensus among paediatric surgeons. Benefits of circumcision had to be viewed in context, he said. "We don't live in a desert, or in a country with a high rate of HIV, so in different cultural or geographical context it may be different." But Professor Morris described the current view of Australasian health authorities towards circumcision as "blinkered ideology". CUTTING TO THE QUICK * A study shows that circumcision should be routinely carried out on newborn boys. * 10 per cent of New Zealand's male babies are circumcised. * The report shows that in uncircumcised infants, the risk of urinary tract infection and kidney inflammation was 10 times greater than those circumcised. * The government pays for the procedure only for medical reasons. By Nicholas Jones | Email Nicholas Loud music makes booze sweeter: study Lovers plan 'quickie' tomorrow Changing shapes outpace designers Related Tags Pregnancy and Childbirth Religion and Beliefs Be part of the news. Send pics, video and tips to nzherald. Send Find Insurance Companies in your area Tweet IM This Share Email Print Post this story to: What are these? | Close Myspace Bebo Digg Delicious Reddit StumbleUpon National Next Article: Favourite racing for her future Special Offers National, international and travel. Get the latest from Air NZ. More deals every day Our FIJI Family Sale – kids U12 fly, transfer, stay, play & eat ALL meals from $299 each! Book a Cook Strait ferry crossing Be in to win a $500 bach holiday Don't let a 'but' get in your way. Study with Open Polytechnic AND achieve your goal Discover the beauty of Samoa. Flights from $509* 24 hour wine sale Gisborne Chardonnay $5.99 Save $11, hurry today only More on nzherald.co.nz Pregnancy and Chil... Bernard Moran: Killing babies the end of the slippery slope Pregnancy and Chil... Hospital hell: mum loses baby Pregnancy and Chil... Father of 12 cited in call to push birth control Pregnancy and Chil... Baby death - doctor and hospital 'failed' mum National headlines More National headlines National headlines continued More National headlines Religion and Beliefs headlines More Religion and Beliefs headlines Weather Detailed forecast Weather news Most Popular Community Top Stories » 1 Bash victim faces ACC denial 2 Slaughtered horse in driveway - is it revenge? 3 The $120 million question ... who owns this superyacht? Top Photos » 1 Australia under water, NSW flooded 2 Alison Mau's life in the spotlight 3 Photos: Weather bomb Top Videos » 1 Sonny Bill and Richard Kahui go back to school 2 NSW towns evacuated after flooding 3 Weatherwatch: clear & dry, for now Most Commented » 1 Bernard Hickey: Money-printing will work if controlled 2 Matt McCarten: Corporate sadists free to drive workers into dirt 3 Chris Rattue: Writing on the wall for Lam Ways to get the latest news The New Zealand Herald Email Updates Sign up now » Mobile Learn more » YouTube Watch Now » Paper Delivery Subscribe today » RSS Feeds View the list » Twitter Read our tweets » Widgets Learn more » e-EDITION View online » Contact the site Contact the paper Advertising Photo sales Subscriptions Promotions Sponsorships About Us Our Publications Help and Tech support Your questions answered & how to report a technical issue More Feedback How to contact someone at nzherald.co.nz More Send us stuff Send us your news tips, photo, video. More Contact online newsroom News & feedback for the online editorial team More Help For information about the newspaper More Subscription and Delivery How to subscribe to the newspaper or raise a delivery matter More Contact news staff How to contact the editorial department More Reader Panel Join our reader panel More Advertise with APN Find your best advertising solution More Print advertising Go here for Print advertising More Online Go here for online advertising More Classified advertising Go here for classified advertising More Jobs Cars Classifieds sella Radio Eventfinder Other Privacy Policy Terms of Use Group Sites View on our smartphone site or lite site © Copyright 2012, APN Holdings NZ Limited Assembled by: (static) o