
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 03:04:53 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close

Sealed With Care! 972.934.1400 Home Our Office Meet Dr. Lynn Video Contact Us Connect with Us: blog facebook twitter youtube Cosmetic Dentistry General Dentistry Implant Dentistry Sedation Dentistry Periodontics Lynn Dental Care Blog Home » Blog » Sealed With Care! Sealed With Care! May  3, 2011 @ 08:27 PM – by drblynn Over the years in the dental field, experts have found one of the most effective weapons in the fight against tooth decay, dental sealants. Dental sealants are thin, clear or white plastic coatings that are applied to the chewing areas of the back teeth. This where you have often have fissures and grooves. Even for those who are diligent in your dental hygiene with brushing, flossing and keeping regular dental visits with your dental team at Lynn Dental Care are not always enough. These actions are geared toward preventing tooth decay. However the bristles of the toothbrush just skim the surface of the teeth and are not able to clean out the fissures and pit of the molars. Dental grooves and fissures that are anatomically inherent to most back teeth are often prone to develop dental decay. Dental decay is created when plaque is left to accumulate on the tooth surface and acted upon by bacteria. During your exam and consultation here at Lynn Dental Care, we will show you those areas of concern in your mouth. The bacterial action results in the creation of acid which causes dental degradation, thus cavities or worse happen. Dental sealants can provide almost prevent decay 100% by providing a barrier between the tooth’s surface, the food particles and the acid forming bacteria. At Lynn Dental Care, we educate all our patients to know that decay prevention is a crucial factor in the maintenance of good oral health. Still, many people wonder whether or not a dental sealant is a good idea for them. When it comes to your teeth, Lynn Dental Care professionals know that you never can be too careful. We use them every single day for chewing and eating our food. Not only that, when problems start to form in your teeth they can become extremely painful. One way that you can help to prevent tooth decay and further issues is to invest in some dental sealants. Many people are concerned if dental sealants are visible to others. You can feel them in your mouth, bus since sealants come in different shades such as clear, white, slightly tinted, their existence can be seen for others only if they closely observe your mouth. They cannot be seen while talking or smiling. Your dental team at Lynn Dental Care will match the sealants in your mouth as close to the natural color your teeth as possible. Dental sealants are not meant to replace fluorides though, they are meant to work in conjunction with each other in preventing tooth decay. Sealants prevent accumulation of germs and food particles out of the grooves. Fluoride makes your teeth strong. Nor are dental sealants a replacement for fillings. Sealants are a preventive process whereas fillings are the treatment after your tooth is damaged because of tooth decay. As with anything, there are risks with dental sealants. The materials that sealants are made of contain BPA – Bisphenol A – and this is an endocrine disruptor, which has been linked to negative health effects. FDA is also concerned about its exposure to fetuses, children and infants. The dental team at Lynn Dental Care always rinse and wipe out any residue from dental sealants so that are safe on the kids we treat and with expectant mothers, we use dental sealant with caution as well. After all, we not only want our current patients at Lynn Dental Care to be safe and healthy, but the future dental patients as well! Tagged with: Dental Sealant Cavity Protection Sealing Teeth Sealing Comments (0) Public comments are closed. As a special to our new patients we will give you  credit to your account to use towards your first visit Please fill out the details below to take an appointment. Consultation Request Name*: Phone: Email*: Procedure: General Dentistry Cosmetic Dentistry Sedation Dentistry Implant Dentistry Perio Disease Laser Gum Surgery Oral Surgery TMJ Disorder/Treatment Oral Surgery TMJ Disorder/Treatment Pre-Op/Post-Op Instructions New Dental Technologies How did you find us? Google Search Yahoo Search MSN/Bing Search Other Search Friend Referral Doctor Referral Location/ Drive By Best way to reach me: phone email Best time to reach me: morning afternoon Questions/Comments: Archives 2011 - May 2011 - April 2011 - March 2011 - February 2011 - January 2010 - December 2010 - November 2010 - October 2010 - September Popular Tags Community Events (13) Cosmetic Dentist Dallas (11) Dallas Cosmetic Dentist (9) Cosmetic Dentistry (8) Dallas Dentist (7) Feeds RSS Feed Atom Feed Financing Options Professional Societies Navigation Home Our Office Meet Dr. Lynn Technologies Video Contact Us Site Map Dental Procedures Cosmetic Dentistry General Dentistry Implant Dentistry Sedation Dentistry Periodontics Social Media Blog Facebook Twitter YouTube Our Location LBJ 6190 LBJ Freeway, Suite 900 Dallas, Texas 75240 Phone: 972.934.1400 Fax: 972.934.0195 Email: care@lynndentalcare.com Map & Driving Directions Copyright © 2010 - 2012 D. Brock Lynn, DDS, MS. All rights reserved. S