
Asthma Important 
        Note: Although 
        the information in this section was written by Healthphone.com's Healing 
        Centre Panel of professional Chinese doctors, licensed acupuncturists, 
        herbalists and other experts, Healthphone.com accepts no legal responsibility 
        nor liability for any errors or omissions. The information in this section 
        is presented as is, for educational purposes only. As with any medical 
        matter, always consult your healthcare professional before acting 
        on any health-related information. Click 
        here to learn more about our Healing Centre Panel. Asthma 1. Overview and Causes 2. Symptoms 3. TCM Effectiveness and Evaluation 4. Common Syndromes and Treatments in TCM a. Asthme of Cold Type b. Asthme of Heat Type c. Asthme of Deficiency Type 5. Healing by Other Therapies a. Qigong and other b. Medicated diet c. Life style 6. Psychological Adaptation 1. 
        Overview and Causes Asthma is an episodic allergic pulmonary disease characterised by paroxysmal 
              attacks of breathlessness, tightness in chest and wheezing (noisy 
              sound produced by long drawn out breathing), all due to the attacks 
              of narrowing of the bronchial (wind-pipe) airways. Asthma attacks 
              may come on suddenly, and they can last from 15 minutes to more 
              than a day. They are frequently triggered by allergies to particles 
              in the air, including pollen, dust, mold, or bits of animal skin 
              called dander. Smoke, exercise, cold air, some foods, emotional 
              upset, a common cold and according to new research, impaired lung 
              muscles can also spark asthma. In a small percentage of people with 
              asthma, aspirin can prompt an attack. In asthma, muscle spasms and 
              swelling in the branches of the windpipe that carry air to and from 
              the lungs constrict the airways and block the flow of air you need 
              to breathe comfortably. Excess mucus (phlegm) may further clog the 
              airways. As a result, patients have to gasp for breath. Return To Top 2. Symptoms 1. 
              Shortness of breath. 2. Wheezing or whistling sounds with breathing. 3. Tightness in the chest. 4. Coughing, especially at night. 5. A severe attack of Asthma will have the patient fatigued, unable 
              to lie down, with an abnormal pulse, silent chest (the wheezes disappear) 
              and cyanosed (bluish appearance of skin esp. of lips, tips of ears, 
              cheeks and nails). Return To Top 3. TCM Effectiveness 
        and Evaluation TCM's evaluation of healing effect on such disease. Many Asthma 
              are successfully treated by TCM's treatment, it is more effective 
              than other kind of treatments. Generally, it takes about two or 
              three weeks to treatment; however, the acupuncture may release the 
              difficulty breathing. Return To Top 4. Common Syndromes and Treatments in TCM This ailment, according to TCM, 
        has different syndromes. The treatment for these syndromes using herbal 
        medicine and acupuncture is shown below. Syndrome 
              (a) Asthma 
              of Cold Type A 
              feeling of fullness and distress in the chest, shortness of breath 
              with wheezing sound in the throat,cough with sputum, frequent attacks 
              in cold seasons or caused by cold, whitish, moist and glossy fur 
              of the tongue, taut and tight pulse. To treat by Herbal medicine Therapeutic principle: Ventilating the lung and expelling 
              pathogenic (disease producing) cold, eliminating phlegm to relieve 
              asthma. Prescription/Formula: Belamcanda and Ephlera Decoction with 
              additional ingredients. Belamcanda rhizome (She gan), Ephlera (Ma 
              huang), Pinellia tuber (Ban xia), Fresh ginger (Sheng jiang ), bitter 
              apricot kernel (Xin ren), Perilla fruit (Shu zi), at 10 g each; 
              Aster root (Zhi yuan), Coltsfoot flower (Kuan dong hua), Schisandra 
              fruit (Da zao), at 12 g each; Asarum herb (Xi xin) 3 g. To treat by Acupuncture and Moxibustion Therapeutic 
              principle: Ventilating the lung and expelling pathogenic cold, 
              eliminating phlegm to relieve asthma Prescription: Shanzhong (RN19), Lieque ((LU7), Feishu (BL13), 
              Fenglong (ST 40),Dazhui (DU14), Fengmen (BL12). Return to Top Syndrome 
              (b) Asthma of 
              Heat Type Dyspnea 
              (shortness of breath) with wheezing, irritable oppressed sensation 
              in the chest even gasping for breath, yellowish mucoid (full of 
              phlegm) sputum, thirst, frequent occurrence in hot seasons or onset 
              closely associated with heat, reddened tongue with yellow greasy 
              fur and a rapid pulse. To treat by Herbal 
              medicine Therapeutic principle: Removing heat-phlegm and facilitating 
              the flow of the lung qi to relieve asthma. Prescription/Formula: Modified prescriptions of decoction 
              of Ephedre, Apricot kernel, Gypsum and Licorice. Ephedre (Ma huang), 
              bitter Apricot kernel (Xin ren), Perilla fruit (Shu zi), Iepidium 
              seed (Ting li zi), Sichuan fritillary bulb (Chuan bei mu), Licorice 
              root (Gan cao) at 10 g each; Gypsum (Sheng shi gao )30 g; Mulberry 
              bark (Shang bai pi ), earthworm (Di long), Trichosanthes seed (Gua 
              lou) at 15 g each. To treat by Acupuncture and Moxibustion Therapeutic 
              principle: Removing heat-phlegm and facilitating the flow of 
              the lung qi to relieve asthma. Prescription: Shanzhong (RN19), Lieque ((LU7), Feishu (BL13), 
              Fenglong (ST 40),Dazhui (DU14), Chize (LU5), Fenglong (ST40). Return to Top Syndrome 
              (c) Asthma 
              of Deficiency Type Chronic and 
              recurrent attacks for a long time, constant minor and persistent 
              asthma at ordinary times, The sound of cough being low and weak, 
              palpitation (noticeable and irregular heartbeat) and shortness of 
              breath,spontaneous perspiration and aversion to wind, general ill 
              health, pale tongue with little fur, and weak pulse. To treat by Herbal 
              medicine Therapeutic principle: Tonifying the lung and spleen, improving 
              inspiration to relieve asthma. Prescription/Formula: Powder of Ginseng and ecko with additional 
              ingredients. Ginseng(Ren shen) 10 g; Gecko (Ge jie ) 3 g;Walnut 
              kernel ( hu tao ), Ophiopogon root ( Mai dong ), Schisandra fruit 
              (Wu wei zi ), Astrandra fruit ( Huang qi ), Cordyceps ( dong chong 
              xia cao ), Lily bulb ( Bai he ), Iili bulb ( fu lin ), red Tangerine 
              peel (jue hong ) at 12 g each; Prepared licorice root ( Gan cao 
              ) 6 g. All the above drugs except gecko are tobe decocted in water 
              for oral administration. To treat by Acupuncture and Moxibustion Therapeutic 
              principle: Tonifying the lung and spleen, improving inspiration 
              to relieve asthma. Prescription: Shanzhong (RN19), Feishu (BL13), Dazhui (DU14), 
              Shenshu (BL 23), Zusanli (ST 36), Sanyinjiao (SP 6). Lieque (LU7), 
              Dingchuan (Ex17). Return to Top 5. Healing by 
              Other Therapies (a) Qigong and other therapies For 
              effect of Qigong on the Digestive System, click here. Generally speaking, 
              Qigong is good for healing effect of this specific ailment, however 
              individual results may vary. It improves the flow of the qi and 
              the circulation of the blood, so you'll experience more energy, 
              but, you won't see/ feel any immediate effects, as with many exercises 
              and therapies, it takes a few weeks or even months of practice before 
              you'll see any significant improvements. The following 
              types of Qigong may help: Static 
                Qigong : Inner-Nourishing Qigong Six-Character Formula Breathing 
                Exercise Qigong Standing 
                Qigong Dynamic 
                Qigong: Fifteen Sets of Taiji-Qigong Hua Tuo's Frolics of Five Animals Taiji Specific Dynamic Qigong : Regulating-Lung 
                Qigong . For the information 
              of different types of Qigong ,just click a link above. This information 
              is for education purpose only. We strongly advise you seek a licensed 
              Qigong master to learn the correct ways to conduct these exercises 
              before attempting them. (b) Medicated diet 1. 
            Tangerine peel(Chenpi) 10g, Bitter Apricot Kernel (Xingren)10g, Ophiopogon 
            (Maidong)12g, rice 60g, put 3 cups of water then soak 20 minutes, 
            boil 30 minutes to make rice gruel, eat once a day for 2 weeks. 2. Astragalus Root (Huangqi)12g, Cordyceps (Dongchongxiacao)6g (Chenpi)10g, 
            lean pork100g, with 4 cups water to decoct 1-2 cups of soup to drink 
            twice a week for 2 months. (c) Life style 1) Stay away from smoke and smokers, If you smoke, quit. 2) Stay indoors, if possible,when air pollution and pollen 
              counts are high. 3) In cold weather, breathe through your nose and cover your 
              nose and mouth with a scarf. 4) Keep your house as dust-free as possible. 5) Get bedding that is made of nonallergenic materials. 6) Stick with pets that don't have hair or fur. 7) Take a Qi-gong or Tai-ji class, It can help relax you. 8) Lower your risk of colds and flu by washing your hands 
              often and by getting a flu shot every year. 9) Don't lie down, you can breathe better if you sit upright 
              and lean forward slightly. 10) Remain calm and quiet. Anxiety makes the symptoms worse. Return to Top 6. 
              Psychological Adaptation to a Chronic and Severe Illness One 
              encounters different health problems in the course of one's life. 
              Some problems are acute yet minor and often improve by themselves 
              or yield to simple self-management. Severe and acute conditions 
              often necessitate the help of health professionals who may provide 
              fast relief with specific interventions. However, when the condition 
              is chronic, the management required is quite different. Please click the following button to learn "Psychological Adaptation 
              to a Chronic and Severe Illness". Return to Top Acknowledgments: Healthphone.com greatly acknowledges 
              the support and dedication of our Healing Centre 
              Panel , without whom this section would not be possible. We also greatly 
              acknowedge Ms. Najaf Munir, MBBS, for her editorial support. Ms. 
              Munir simplified the highly technical medical documents into easy-to-read 
              document