
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 00:03:11 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.41 (Unix) mod_log_bytes/1.2 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_auth_passthrough/1.8 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_ssl/2.8.31 OpenSSL/0.9.7a
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Upper Mid and Lower Back Pain Home | Videos | Community | Products Disability Information | Assistive Technology | Health | Travel | Sports | Medical | Fitness & Nutrition | News Upper Mid and Lower Back Pain » SCI Sciatica and Back pain By Kieth Rigsby - 2008-04-10 Back pain (also known "dorsalgia") is pain felt in the back that may originate from the muscles, nerves, bones, joints or other structures in the spine. The pain may have a sudden onset or it can be a chronic pain, it can be felt constantly or intermittently, stay in one place or refer or radiate to other areas. It may be a dull ache, or a sharp or piercing or burning sensation. * * * Back pain (also known "dorsalgia") is pain felt in the back that may originate from the muscles, nerves, bones, joints or other structures in the spine. The pain may have a sudden onset or it can be a chronic pain, it can be felt constantly or intermittently, stay in one place or refer or radiate to other areas. It may be a dull ache, or a sharp or piercing or burning sensation. The pain may be felt in the neck (and might radiate into the arm and hand), in the upper back, or in the low back, (and might radiate into the leg or foot), and may include symptoms other than pain, such as weakness, numbness or tingling. Lower Back Pain When you suffer from severe low back pain, it can be uncomfortable to simply walk about, and you experience shooting pain that runs down one or both legs as well. In some cases severe lower back pain can even affect your feet, causing them to swell or even become numb. Any of these symptoms should be checked out by your doctor to rule out any underlying medical problems. However, since the cause of severe lower back pain is often not found, you and your doctor may need to work together to simply find some methods of lessening and coping with the pain. The good news is that there is bounty of options available for those who are suffering with back pain today, and most are noninvasive and easy to administer. Treating Severe Lower Back Pain: In some cases of severe lower back pain, your doctor may suggest that you try over the counter pain medications, or he may even recommend a medicine to treat your pain. Muscle relaxants can work well over the short terms, so that you can rest and allow the injured area to heal. If your lower back pain is more chronic in nature, your doctor may decide on to go with an antidepressant that will not only work effectively on the pain, but will help to improve any stress or tension that you are feeling as a result of the pain over the long term. Another treatment option that many have found effective is chiropractic care, which can be done by a certified chiropractor or an osteopath in some cases. This type of treatment occupies manipulations that adjust the spine back into alignment and remove the pressure on overwrought nerves and strained muscles. Whatever treatment option you choose, you can rest assured that there is relief in sight for severe lower back pain. Get The Right Treatment as Soon as Possible: Seek medical attention as soon as possible if pain is more severe as your doctor can make the correct diagnosis before deciding any treatment. For more information on ways that you can alleviate severe lower back pain, be sure to consult your doctor. You can also search the internet; since there are a variety of different, reliable medical websites that can help you find safe treatments. Some of these websites have reviews too on things like back massager chairs that you could try. You are sure to find the right treatments with the proper explore. Mid Back Pain Relief Tips If you are one of the many people that suffer with mid back pain then you will know what little relief there is from this condition; for most people, their only concern is to receive back pain relief medication to dull the pain. Although some medication may be effective and bring pain relief, it doesn't really help with the underlying problem of the condition causing the distress. Any type of medication should only be used with the supervision of a doctor but especially when it is taken on a regular basis. The problem with the back is just how strong it is and at the same time how easily it can become damaged. Once spinal injury has occurred, it can be a permanent condition, often caused by something as simple as bad posture. However, back pain is usually caused by a lifting accident or from lifting incorrectly and it is normally the mid to lower back that suffers. Fortunately there are a number of natural back pain relief remedies that can help without a reliance on prescription medication. Tense muscles in the back can be eased just by gentle stretching; this provides relief and is simple to carry out. Some people are now discovering the benefits of reflexology. Massaging the feet in certain areas bring relief to a number of back pain sufferers. Often to compensate for the pain, the back muscles over compensate. Reflexology can help provide relief by improving the circulation which in turn relaxes these hard worked muscles. Acupuncture is used frequently by people suffering spinal agony by giving them back pain relief just as it has for thousands of years, although, only recently in the West. The Chinese believe that all humans have an energy force called qi and by inserting needles in specific parts of the body, it can help to unblock qi and restore the flow. Like reflexology, acupuncture seems to be used by people who suffer with chronic conditions like back pain. Tai Chi is also another ancient Chinese discipline which is basically a type of exercise similar to yoga, except it is a little slower. The most important aspect of tai chi is that almost anyone can participate as it uses gentle breathing exercises and techniques to help relax the body. It would be a shame not to finish by remembering that exercise can provide mid back pain relief and that regular exercise is also one of the best preventative medicines available. Upper Back Pain In order to understand upper back pain causes, we must first understand the upper back. Unlike lower back pain, pain from the upper back is not that common. The upper back region is where you will find the thoracic spine, which in turn contains twelve vertebrae. These vertebrae are linked to nine of the twelve ribs. Sitting perpendicularly to the spine is the breastbone, which also is connected to the ribs. These bones all form part of what is know as the thoracic or "chest" cage. This cage sole responsibility is to protect the organs found in our upper body. The three remaining ribs at the low end of the "ladder" are not attached to the breastbone and therefore do not form part of the thoracic or "chest" cage. Upper back pain, though rare, does occur. This article will explain the causes and treatment of upper back pain. What Causes Upper Back Pain The human spinal web is divided in three major sections 1. The thoracic spine which exists to not only give the body its stability but also to protect the major organs and for that reason, is much stronger that the other two. 2. The cervical spine is closely related to the neck area and its main purpose is to allow the body to move and flex. 3. The lumbar spine is associated to the lower back and its main role, as with the cervical spine, is to give the body its flexibility and movement. It is mainly for these reasons that most back injuries tend to occur in the lumbar and cervical spines, as they are not as strong as the thoracic spine. However back pains, as rare as they may seem, still do occur in the thoracic spine and can be traced back to either myofascial pain and joint dysfunctional pain. Myofascial pain - Is basically an irritation of the muscles brought about by muscle strains. Strains usually occur during sporting activities, over use of a muscle or even extreme sudden movements as in when the body is thrown forward in a car crash. In these cases, it is the larger muscles that support the shoulder blades that are affected. Joint dysfunction - Joints are the connection between each rib and the thoracic spine. Sustaining an injury to the joints can cause them to stop functioning properly and cause upper back pain. How To Treat Upper Back Pain The recommended treatment for myofascial pain is deep tissue massage, manipulation of the spine by a qualified physiotherapist, very light shoulder exercises and even a dose of acupuncture. Stretching and strengthening your shoulder muscles are a must if you want to be finally free from upper back pain. Joint dysfunction is usually best treated by direct injections of steroids in the problem area or areas, light aerobic exercises, prescribed medication and manipulation of the spine by a qualified physiotherapist Upper back pain causes are very hard to diagnose and should you be unfortunately suffering from it, the best professionals to see are firstly pain management specialists like chiropractors and physiotherapist and if the pain still persists, an orthopedic surgeon. Also see our article on Relieving Back Pain "Upper Mid and Lower Back Pain" Upper Mid and Lower Back Pain Tweet Video Clips Video Not Currently Available Top of Page Reference Desk - Contact, About, Terms and Privacy Information Information contained within is intended for your general information only and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Disabled World is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Disabled