
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 08:30:08 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Rheumatology Rounds - A Story of Persistence - Rebecca Manno, MD Home | Appointments | About The Center Arthritis Info Patient Resources Physician Resources Arthritis News Arthritis Research Ask The Expert Home > Physician's Corner > CME Training > Rheumatology Rounds > Round 24 Round 25: Rheumatoid  Arthritis Treatment: It is the Best of Times and the Worst of Times By: James R. O’Dell, M.D. University of Nebraska Medical Center Dr. O'Dell has no significant financial interest or relationships to disclose. Release Date: April 8, 2010 Expiration Date: January 1, 2011 It really is the best  of times to be a physician taking care of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA)  and no one would question that. There are so many treatment options available:  drug products and biological products, etc that were never dreamed of just a  few years ago. However, there are some clouds on the horizon. There are gaps in  our ability to take the available options and really apply them to patients in  any kind of a scientific way. A good question to address is what do we need to  do to get where we would like to be a decade from now. Objectives: Participants will be able to: State the importance of  measurements. Restate the flaws in current trial design. Discuss the ethical concerns of current  clinical trials. Over the last 20+  years, thinking about RA and caring for patients with RA has changed  drastically. We have a lot of tools now that we didn’t have twenty years ago. Paradigm  shifts of the last decade Early Treatment is Critical . This wasn’t so obvious until the last 10  years or so how really important this is. The Use of DMARD Combinations. In the mid-90’s nobody used  combinations of disease modifying drugs to treat RA. A patient would be  prescribed one drug; if it stopped working; lost its efficacy, a new drug would  be prescribed. Rheumatologists are very timid. When we started our trials, we  had a lot of trouble getting people to accept the concept of being more  aggressive and we had to have INDs and the FDA made us use sulfasalazine at  smaller doses than we would ever think about today because people were scared  of combinations. Today combinations of DMARD are used in vast majorities of our  patients. Biological Therapies. Biological therapies have obviously  been a huge change in the last decade The Critical role of comorbidities .  One of the big things also that has become hugely apparent over the last five  years is the importance of comorbidities; chief among these cardiovascular:  comorbidity of all our inflammatory diseases. RA Treatment: A Remarkable Success Story? Here we have a 56-year-old woman who  has sero-positive, erosive RA. She has 17 tender and swollen joints. She gets  treated with methotrexate (MTX) and they pushed the MTX dose. They switched it  to parental when it wasn’t working completely, which is something many  rheumatologists forget to do and should remember. She still has many active  joints. But, she is an ACR70. So she is 70% better in a composite way overall  and in any trial she would be labeled as one of the successes. This highlights  a huge problem we have in clinical trials and that is, should we really  consider this patient a success? So what is wrong with  that picture? Although a lot of patients would be happy that they only have  five joints that are tender and swollen instead of 17, rheumatologists would  not be happy with that. We are not happy when someone has five tender and  swollen joints in the clinic. There is a big problem with what we measure as  success and it begs the question of what the goals should be. Where is the hemoglobin  A1C; the LDL level; the blood pressure level that we should be targeting in our  disease? Lord Kelvin ( left ) had some thoughts on measuring  things. “When you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in  numbers, you know something about it; but when you cannot measure it [and]  express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meager and unsatisfactory kind.” He was not talking  about measurements in rheumatoid arthritis but it certainly applies. He also said,  “if you cannot measure it you cannot prove it”. That says a lot about the  measures of success in rheumatoid arthritis. It lends itself to how we define  success in the clinics, what we are shooting for. What  is the goal of therapy? In clinical trials it  may be an ACR 20, 50, or 70, or a disease activity score of DAS 28, or some  radiographic outcome. These are very different measurements. In the clinic it  is probably just a Gestalt for most of us. Particularly in this country, not  too many people do DAS 28s in the clinics. There are other clinical  measures–GAS, Rapid CDAI–that are evolving and need to continue to evolve if we  are going to get to a uniform goal for patients. ACR Core Set Physician global estimate Functional status – health assessment questionnaire  (HAQ) multidimensional HAQ (MDHAQ) Pain ACR Core Set  and  Disease Activity Score (DAS) Tender joint count Swollen joint count Acute phase reactant – ESR, CRP Patient global estimate Above are the 7  measures that are the core set that makes up the ACR 20, 50 and 70; and those  used in the DAS. The problem with the ACR set is that it measures a percent  improvement. DAS measures an absolute level of disease activity, but it has a  lot of problems too. There is nothing in the DAS about functional status; it is  much too sensitive to changes in sedimentation rates; painful joints are  overemphasized compared with swollen joints. DAS28 = 0.56 * square root (tender joint count 28) + 0.28 * square root  (swollen joint count 28) + 0.70 * log e (ESR) +0.014 (patient assessment of  global status or activity) The DAS is a  complicated mathematical formula but that is not the reason it is not useful to  us in clinic. The reason that it is not useful to us in clinic is that most  people don’t do formal 28 joint counts and even if they do, they don’t have  sedimentation rates or CRP’s done at the time they are seeing the patient. There  is also a CRP DAS that can be calculated. RA  treatment: questions for the next decade The ACR put out an RFA  on a new measure that would be able to be used in the clinic and that it would  be measuring an absolute level of disease activity. The ACR hybrid is neither,  but it is a better measure of outcomes in clinical trials and that is an  important point. In fact it is good enough that if it’s used as an outcome in  clinical trials, the number of patients used can be halved. It is an  improvement in trials, but it is not going to be helpful in clinics because it  can never be a goal for an individual patient because, again, it is based upon  a percent improvement and that is a huge problem to get around. To highlight some of  the problems with the way we measure things, here is a study that looked at a  combination methotrexate versus adalimumab versus methotrexate alone. In this  case, one would have been much better off picking methotrexate compared with  adalimumab. There is a statistically significant difference between  methotrexate and adalimumab when measuring ACR 20. So for measuring signs and  symptoms of RA, one is better off with methotrexate in terms of the ACR 20, 50  and 70. However if comparing xrays, one would be better off choosing adalimumab  because the radiographic progression after two years is better in the adalimumab  group compared with methotrexate alone. So what do we choose? Do we want the  patient to be clinically better and have less tender and swollen joints? Or do  we want them to have less radiographic damage? Again, we’re questioning what we  are measuring in clinical trials and how we define success. This is a patient who has very  deforming arthritis. You may recognize this patient from the ACR collection. Here  are the x-rays on that particular patient. Sharp score 0. There are no erosions  there. Because of the subluxation that may be called some joint space narrowing  but there is truly no joint space narrowing. So this patient has deforming  arthritis but no Sharp score progression. One of the problems  with clinical trial interpretation is not knowing what to do with radiographic  outcomes. Disability can and does occur without ever having any xray changes. So  again, what should we really be measuring in clinical trials? This is a patient  with SLE, but it could be a patient with RA who has significant deformities  because of all the synovitis. This is much more debilitating for the patient  than the progression of a few Sharp score points. What is the goal of RA  treatment? Unfortunately we can’t cure RA right now, but remission is a very  realistic goal and should be our goal with most patients. If we treat patients  early, then we should be able to achieve remission in a significant percentage  of our people. What is significant? Significant depends on how we measure  remission. The TICORA trial  was done in Glasgow and it asked the question: what happens if we have one set  of patients that we treat to a goal (intensive care) and another set of  patients that we treat with the best care (routine care)? The goal was the full  DAS of less than 2.4. They didn’t use biological therapies in this trial; the  therapy followed a progression: Patients fared better with a goal. Routine Care Intensive Care Initial 17 Tender, 14 Swollen, ESR=40 20 Tender, 15 Swollen, ESR=50 18 Month 5 Tender, 4 Swollen, ESR = 22 1 Tender, 0 Swollen, ESR = 7 Sharp Erosion + 3.9 Median +0.5 median What does this tell us?  It tells us that if we had a goal for our patients and we made decisions to get  to that goal—escalating therapy when we need too—all of our patients would do  better. Unfortunately DAS is cumbersome, so we need something in clinic that is  easier to follow. Global Arthritis Score. The global arthritis score (GAS) is  based upon measurements that the patient performs. This is a self-recorded  tender joint count and is very easy to do. This may not be what we should be  measuring in clinic, but we need to validate an outcome measure that is easy to  use in clinic. The GAS has been shown to correlate very nicely with DAS changes  in most cases. What  should the goal of our therapy be? Or how de we define success? absolute level of disease activity vs percent  improvement clinical vs radiographical easy vs cumbersome real-time vs tomorrow or next week Back to the 56-year-old  woman: ACR 20 response but five tender and five swollen joints. Rheumatologists  are not happy with the outcome, but there is no trial data that shows we can do  better in this patients with only five tender and five swollen joints. All of  our clinical trials have been based upon people with much more active disease.  At minimum, to be in cilincal trials patients have six tender and six swollen  joints. Most of the patients seen in clinics don’t qualify for clinical trials.  The main reason they don’t qualify is that they have too little activity of the  disease. That makes it difficult to extrapolate knowledge from clinical trial  data and apply it to the care of an individual patient. ATTRACT  trial. The ATTRACT  study was intended to study patients with aggressive disease who were  inadequately responding to methotrexate. Patients had active RA, despite  methotrexate treatment, defined as at least 6 swollen and tender joints and at  least 2 of the following: morning stiffness of 45 minutes or more, erythrocyte  sedimentation rate of a minimum of 28 mm/hr, or a C-reactive protein of at  least 2 mg/dl. All patients had to have been treated with methotrexate for at  least 3 months at a minimum stable dose of 12.5 mg/week for at least 4 weeks  prior to screening and no other concomitant DMARDs were allowed during the  trial. Patients were, however, permitted to receive stable low-dose corticosteroids  at less than or equal to 10 mg/day and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The patient population  in ATTRACT was reflective of a typical population of patients with  active RA, having a median age of 54 years, female predominance and a majority  of patients with positive rheumatoid factor. Patients had been on a median of 3  prior DMARDs, including methotrexate, with a range of 2 to 8. Patients were on  therapeutic doses of methotrexate prior to study entry, with a median dose of  15 mg/week. Despite being on therapeutic doses of methotrexate at baseline,  patients had active disease. They had a median of 20 swollen and 31 tender  joints as well as a median CRP of 2.6 mg/dL. They also had substantial  disability at study entry, indicated by a median HAQ score of 1.8. Our patient began with  10 swollen and 10 tender joints, so she is going to qualify for all those other  trials. She is still an ACR 40 and that is a success in most of our trials, but  10 tender and 10 swollen joints is bad. Clinical trials do not tell us how to  treat this patient either; there are no trials that compare active therapies to  each other in patients with active disease despite methotrexate. There are a  lot of choices. All of the data that is available to us in the world literature  about which of those therapies work better than the other one don’t indicate  when to use them. In other words there is no data out there on the particular  important question. How  soon is soon enough? Early therapy is  important. How early, we don’t know the answer to, but it is an important  question. If a patient says, “Doctor, no matter what, I need to be able to go  to work tomorrow”, which of our therapies are going to work quickly? This shows the first 14  patients who were ever treated with steroids in the world (Mayo Clinic, 1949): ESR    Start ESR    Finish ESR    Response 1 108 26 76% 2 118 50 58% 3 51 8 84% 4 37 16 57% 5 65 11 83% 6 47 14 70% 7 103 14 86% 8 50 10 80% 9 81 17 79% 10 115 13 89% 11 64 14 78% 12 68 22 68% 13 71 13 82% 14 62 31 50% Mean 74 18 74% They all had RA. RA was  selected as the first disease to treat because it was thought that RA was a steroid  deficiency disease. Some people still believe that and there is some evidence  that might support that. Within a month, 100% of these patients had an ESR of  50. In other words, their sedimentation rate was about 50% better. Eighty  percent of them had an ESR of 70. One therapy that works quickly is steroids. What about more modern  day data? The Cobra trial compared participants that received 60 mg of  prednisolone each day for a week and then tapered fairly rapidly with a group  that received sulfasalazine alone. The results showed that if the steroids were  administered up front, the ESR got 75% better within two weeks. Sulfasalazine  alone did the same thing but it took it six months. TNF inhibition works very  quickly too. Those are the two options for a response within days or a week. Are  current trial designs relevant to current future or clinical practice? What is the current  standard trial design? Vast  majority of trials especially US are pharmaceutical trials Most  trials compare active therapy to placebo Randomize  patients to A vs B in a rigid manner and ask question who is better after 1  year? 2 years? Or heaven forbid even longer! Little  or no attempt to look at parameters (clinical or biological) that predict  response Essentially  no meaningful data on cost effectiveness Ethical  issues: Placebos, duration of failed therapies, timing of knowledge about  treatment assignment First of all, the vast  majority of trials, especially in the United States, are pharmaceutical trials.  Because of pharmaceutical trials, we have so many options for patients that we  didn’t have a decade ago. However, pharmaceutical trials are designed to ask a  specific question by a group of people that have a vested interest in the  outcome. They do not necessarily ask the questions that are most relevant for  rheumatologists to take care of patients in clinic. Pharmaceutical trials are  necessary and important, but there is a need for other trials that ask other  important questions. Most trials in patients  with active disease despite methotrexate compare active therapy to placebos,  which is ethically unconscionable. Why should we be doing yet another trial  that shows us the 13th therapy works in that group of patients with  suboptimal response to methotrexate when we know we have 12 ways to make that  patient better? Most trials randomize patients to therapy A versus therapy B in  a rigid manner and ask the question: who is better a year later or two years  later? This is not how we take care of patients in clinic. If a patient is not  doing better at three or six months they will switch to something else  We need to do something different about trial  design to get around this particular problem. There has been little or no  attempt to look at parameters, clinical or biological, that predict responses. In 2017 we are not  going to be talking about RA the same way we talk about RA as a disease. We are  going to be talking about subsets of RA and how those subsets are going to be  defined is the very important question that we don’t know the answer to.  Hopefully, we are going to have trial data that is married to biological  repositories that will address the question of how can we predict who is going  to have a 90% success rate on what therapy. There is essentially no meaningful  data of cost effectiveness in our diseases. How can comparisons between doing  something that is active versus something that is a placebo give accurate cost  effectiveness data? We need trials that are comparing active therapies to each  other. Until we have those, we essentially have no useful cost effectiveness  data. The use of placebos in  trials is a huge problem, it helps answer some questions but it is unconscionable  from the patient’s standpoint. The duration of failed therapies – we need trial  design that lets patients come out of trials or lets them switch therapies at  an appropriate clinical time. If we don’t do that, then the results of that  trial aren’t very helpful to you we you try and take care of a patient. We need  timing and knowledge of the treatment assignment. Another thing that is  unconscionable is physicians and patients enrolled in trials not finding out  the therapies administered until all participants are finished. That knowledge  could have helped the physician understand how to treat that patient. If a  patient comes out of the trial because of side effects, the code is not broken  until everyone is out of that trial unless there are extreme situations. That  is not the way we ought to be taking care of our patients. There are a lot of  ethical issues involved in having patients participate in clinical trials. Current  Study Designs ATTRACT Study Design and Methods. The  pre-specified, primary and secondary endpoints at weeks 30, 54 and 102 in the  ATTRACT study are shown here. The primary endpoint at week 30 was the  proportion of patients achieving an ACR 20 level of response in each of the 5  treatment groups. The primary, week-54 endpoint was degree of inhibition of  structural damage progression as measured by the change from baseline in the  modified Sharp score. At 102 weeks, the primary endpoint was improvement in  physical function as assessed by the change in HAQ over time. Secondary  endpoints included change in modified Sharp score at weeks 30 and 102, ACR 20  response rates at weeks 54 and 102, and change in HAQ over time through week  54. There is no reason that we should be  following someone for 54 weeks or 102 weeks if they haven’t done well on the  therapy that we selected. They should be out of this trial as a treatment  failure much, much earlier than that. We shouldn’t be putting patients at risk. TEAR  (Treatment of Early Aggressive  Rheumatoid) trial. It is an investigator-initiated trial. It started out an NIH trial but didn’t  end up that way. This is a trial where we are looking at patients with early  disease and we are randomizing them to either the strategy of triple therapy or  the strategy of methotrexate plus TNF inhibition, but only half of the patients  are getting that therapy up front. The other half in both groups are just being  started on methotrexate and then they are only stepped up to that if they have  active disease, which is kind of the way we do things in clinic. The question  then is what happens after two years. RACAT  (Rheumatoid arthritis comparison to active therapy) trial. This is a trial that is done in the  VA with the collaboration of the Canadian Institute of Health, CIHR. It  addresses the comparison of active therapies in methotrexate suboptimal  responders by looking at a strategy. The question is based upon whether you  started on methotrexate, all these patients are on methotrexate, sulfasalazine  hydroxychloroquine or etanercept in the beginning. Based upon what one you  started on what happens after a year, in terms of getting a DAS 28 below 3.2  (low level of disease activity). The therapy used isn’t the main point; it’s  how well the patient is doing. These patients at 24 weeks will switch over to  the other therapy if they haven’t had a clinically significant improvement,  which is defined as a 1.2 on the DAS 28 in a blinded fashion. It is all done in  a blinded fashion. At the end of the day some of these patients who originally  got sulfasalazine hydroxychloroquine will actually be getting Etanercept. At  the end of this day some of the patients might be on triple therapy. Strengths of the RACAT trial: First trial to compare active therapies in  methotrexate suboptimal responders Tests a strategy not fixed/rigid approach (single  head-to-head comparison despite suboptimal results) No pharmaceutical funding, influence on design or  data interpretation or control of the data Large concentration of men All study medications supplied by the VA Robust economic analysis Bi-National Serum and DNA bank How can we profile patients effectively? This is a huge problem,  and this is where we are going to make a lot of headway in the next decade. If  I am making this decision for a new patient in my clinic, how do I treat  patients with RA? I have 6,683 choices I can make. We have 17 disease-modifying  drugs, six of which are biological. Consider that it is not unusual for us to  use four disease-modifying drugs, so if you go through the math on that, in  terms of using all those drugs individually, using two at a time, three at a  time, four at a time that is 6,683 possible choices. I can’t spin a wheel and  pick, I need a lot better tools to help me make that decision for our patients  and when I have those tools I will be a lot smarter. How are we going to get  there? The shared epitope  has been predicted in some models. CCP and CCP isotypes might help us, serum  cytokines might help us, and other genetic markers might help us. There are  many candidates out there, but not a lot of information right now. But that is  one of the ways we are going to make quantum leaps forwards. Ideal situation: 2017: Individual RA Treatment Profile Serum: IgA  and IgG4 CCP positive, MMP3 –high, sTNFR - low DNA: DRB1 -0401/X heterozygote, MTHFR –C/T RNA: Not  required unless shared epitope negative Synovial Bx:  Not required unless active disease at 4 months LDL and HDL:  138 and 37 Answer: Two weeks of anti-TNF X397 (dose of 374 mg q  week) and maintenance therapy with methotrexate 18 mg q 8 days, Statin 242  45mg/d Can  we treat rheumatoid before it happens? Yes, it is going to  happen and it is going to happen in most of your lifetimes. CCP antibodies and  rheumatoid factors are present long before disease happens, so immunologically  you get RA five years before you show up in the clinic. There are studies now  that are tracking those people and watching them develop RA and defining the  earliest changes in terms of autoantibody production. Those autoantibodies are  allowing us to predict who is actually going to develop RA with high degrees of  specificity. Those same studies are  looking at cytokine changes or other things that may be even earlier changes in  RA. What about critical co-morbid conditions? That is a huge issue  because it is why patients die. They die because they have coronary artery  disease and strokes, because of the inflammation. That may be one of the  important variables in answering how soon is soon enough. Sherine Gabriel has  elegant data that shows the heart disease of RA starts before the clinical RA. It  makes sense that they have this inflammatory process going on years before they  develop RA. I think we are doing a much better job of this, we are really  paying attention to the risk factors that our patients have for those  conditions. We are using statins, which may help their rheumatoid a bit as  well, but we need to do an even better job. How  will we pay for all of these therapies that our patients are going to need? Unless we have the data  that shows which therapies which patients need and whether they are cost  effective or not, insurance companies will shy away from payment. But even with  that information it would be very reasonable for them to come to us and say  “you have to try x, y and z before that patient can get on TNF therapy”. The  data comparing x, y and z to TNF therapy needs to exist to fight the insurance  companies. Some of the problems  with where we are right now may indicate some of the worst of times. However,  it is still the best time to be a rheumatologist and take care of patients with  RA. We did not have 6,683 choices for initial therapy a few years ago and that  is exciting. It is dramatically different in clinic now, compared to what it  was like a decade or 20 years ago with regard to the number of wheelchairs, the  number of people that had C1, C2 problems, the number of people that had  vasculitis and chronic nonhealing leg ulcers, etc. We don’t see a lot of that  anymore. It is dramatically different, we have made a lot of progress. All 
          information contained within the Johns Hopkins Arthritis Center website 
          is intended for educational purposes only. Physicians and other health care 
          professionals are encouraged to consult other sources and confirm the information 
          contained within this site. Consumers should never disregard medical advice 
        or delay in seeking it because of something they may have read on this website. Rheumatology Rounds Home Page TNF Antagonists and  Infection: The Pharmacoepidemiologist’s Perspective Arthritis Self-Management: More than a Nice Extra Neuropsychiatric Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Systems Approach with Inflammatory Exudates - A Novel Genus of Anti-Inflammatory & Pro-Resolving Mediators Sitemap | Copyright | Pr