
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Sun-Java-System-Web-Server/7.0
Date: Sun, 18 Mar 2012 01:14:05 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Jun 2010 14:08:48 GMT
Content-length: 19159
Etag: "4ad7-4c24b870"
Accept-ranges: bytes
Connection: close

where to go for help with generalised anxiety disorder? HOME | ABOUT | PUBLICATIONS | DATABASES | SERVICES | GATEWAY LINKS where 
                  to go for help with generalised anxiety disorder? There are 
                  several different medications that can be used for the treatment 
                  of generalized anxiety disorder. These include benzodiazepines, 
                  buspirone, hydroxyzine, and antidepressants. Benzodiazepines 
                  are also known as "tranquilizers". Their major advantage 
                  is that they work very quickly to reduce anxious feelings as 
                  well as physical symptoms of anxiety. Their major disadvantage 
                  is that when people discontinue them, there is often a "rebound" 
                  anxiety, with return of GAD symptoms. Also, they are not effective 
                  for the depressive symptoms that commonly co-occur in GAD. Furthermore, 
                  there is an association between the use of benzodiazepines and 
                  motor vehicle collisions due to subtle cognitive impairment. Buspirone 
                  (or Buspar) is the only medication in its particular class. 
                  A major advantage of this agent is that it has relatively few 
                  side effects; most people with GAD tolerate it very well. Disadvantages 
                  of buspirone are that it takes 3-4 weeks before the agent begins 
                  to work, and that it is not effective for the depressive symptoms 
                  and other anxiety disorders that are often seen in people with 
                  GAD. Hydroxyzine 
                  is a medication that has long been available. Like buspirone, 
                  it too can be readily stopped at any point. Hydroxyzine is, 
                  however, initially associated with some feelings of sedation. 
                  This can be an advantage for some people (e.g. those with insomnia), 
                  but it may be a disadvantage for others (e.g. those who need 
                  to operate machinery). As in the case of benzodiazepines and 
                  buspirone, it is not effective for the depressive symptoms that 
                  often co-occur with GAD. The term 
                  "antidepressants" is a very poor one, as these medications 
                  are in fact the first choice of medication for many different 
                  anxiety disorders. Many of the antidepressants are effective 
                  in GAD, and they are also often effective for the depressive 
                  symptoms and other anxiety disorders seen together with GAD. 
                  Their major disadvantage is that like buspirone, it may take 
                  several weeks of daily medication before their positive effect 
                  becomes apparent. Venlafaxine is one of the few antidepressants 
                  that is in fact licensed for the treatment of GAD, although 
                  other agents are likely to be registered in the future. People with 
                  GAD can be seen as viewing the world through a lens which colors 
                  everything with negative predictions. Psychotherapy focuses 
                  on attempting to change this lens (technically, this is the 
                  "cognitive" part of "cognitive-behavioural therapy". Steps in 
                  the cognitive-behavioural therapy of GAD can include self-monitoring 
                  and cognitive restructuring. Self-monitoring involves paying 
                  closer attention to one's thoughts and feelings. In some ways 
                  this is an exposure ("face the fear") technique, but 
                  the technique is also useful in demonstrating to oneself the 
                  connection between fearful thoughts about the future and feelings 
                  of anxiety. Cognitive restructuring involves providing good 
                  counter-arguments which dispell the logic of worry and fear 
                  found in GAD. Common cognitive distortions in GAD include probability 
                  overestimation, catastrophizing, and all or nothing thinking. 
                  Overcoming such distortions may well require the help of a professional. Further resources / references Anxiety Disorders Association of America, Inc 11900 Parklawn Drive, Suite 100, Rockville, MD 20852-2624 Tel: 240 485 1001/ Fax: 240 485 1035/ Internet: http://www.adaa.org Depression 
                  & Anxiety Support Group of SA PO Box 652548, Benmore 2010 Tel: 011 783-1474/6 Books 
                  about GAD Chronic 
                  Anxiety: Generalized Anxiety Disorder and Mixed-Depression. 
                  Ronald M. Rapee and David H. Barlow (Eds). Guilford Press, 1991. Generalized 
                  Anxiety Disorder: Diagnosis, Treatment and Its Relationship 
                  to Other Anxiety Disorders. David Nutt, Spilios Argyropoulos 
                  and Sam Forshall. Bladwell Science Inc., 1999. Overcoming Generalized Anxiety Disorder: Client Manual. John 
                  White. New Harbinger Publications, 1999. Alcohol/Drug
   abuse | Burden of Disease | Cancer | Ethics | Evidence | HIV/AIDS | HTA | Lifestyle | Malaria | Mental health | Motivational interviewing | Novel drug | Nutrition | Traditional
  meds | Tuberculosis | Violence/Injury Last 
                    updated: 24-Nov-2008 Administrator: Mental  Health Information Centre of South Africa E-mail: mhic@sun.ac.za Technical 
                    en