
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 11:06:05 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://holistichealthdaily.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

chronic back pain sufferers - Holistic Health Daily Lower Back Pain Reli How to Achieve Lower Back Pain Relief Knowledge Concerning How To Achieve Lower Back Pain Relief Treating Lower Back Pain With Acupuncture Pain Relief Your Period Pinched Nerve in Back Success Stories Solutions To Make Your Everyday Chronic Back Pain  A lot less Painful › FreeArticlesHome.Net Wonderful world How You Can Deal With  Debilitating Back Pain › FreeArticlesHome.Net Holistic Health Daily Daily Holistic Health News, Tips, Trainings, Articles & Videos Home Articles A Major Problem With Self Help An Introduction to Spiritual Technology Deep PEAT and Deep PEAT III/IV (Primordial Energy Activation and Transcendence) Deep PEAT Description by Zivorad M. Slavinski Oneness and Duality The Highest Level of Spiritual Freedom Spirituality Therapy: A Great Experience! Three Levels of Emotional Freedom Which One Are You On? Bonus Videos Holistic Health Q & A Everything is Energy And This Is How You Look FAQ – Self Hypnosis How Do You Make Time Out Of Nothing? Holistic Health Resources Services Increase Your Money Flow Pain Relief Today Weekly Holistic Health Tips EFT On Steroids – Basic PEAT Headache Relief With Reflexology How To Do Sit Ups To Protect Your Back No Cost Back Pain Relief Tips Rest Now: A Holistic Health Tool Tips To Save A Marriage Contact Us Alternative Medicine Alternative Medicine Therapy Complementary and Alternative Medicine Energy Medicine Holistic Medicine Consciousness and Awareness Emotions Emotional Control Healing Alternative Healing Energy Healing Holistic Healing Psychic Healing Self Healing Spiritual Healing Holistc Health Hypnosis Self Hypnosis Meditation Mental Health Mental Training Nutrition Pain Relief Spirituality Spiritual Awakening Spiritual Awareness You are Here: HolisticHealthDaily » chronic back pain sufferers Lower Back Pain Relief with Yoga [VIDEO] Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · 2 Comments Lower Back Pain is a wide spread problem in our society and there are numerous ways from drugs to surgery that are used and one of the best holistic health ways is you can get lower back pain relief with yoga . AcuteBackPain.net has a great video on doing just that and we thought you might enjoy it. Lower Back Pain Relief with Yoga There you have it the Thread Needle Yoga pose a great way to achieve lower back pain relief with yoga. And if the Thread Needle doesn’t get you the relief you want go here or contact us Please share this with everyone you know who has lower back pain and wants relief. Categories: Holistc Health - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , energy healing , energy medicine , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , lower back pain relief with yoga , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief , yoga Insurance Companies Say Enough To Back Pain Surgery Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment Severe Back Pain Relief Without Surgery It is finally happening, you probably knew it was going to happen sooner or later. The insurance companies say enough to back pain surgery . The cost of surgery for back pain is rising daily and the percentages of relief is as low as 50% so it is no wonder insurance companies say enough to back pain. The option, use something with a higher percentage of pain relief and a much lower cost to achieve it. Patricia Sarath wrote and article over at Bizmology and in it she said… Health insurers have had it up to here with back pain. It’s prevalent, expensive, and surgery doesn’t do a good job of fixing it.So some insurance providers are saying, “Enough!” and making patients try less-invasive treatments before undergoing surgery. John Fox, M.D., Priority [Health]’s associate vice president of medical affairs, said patients who have non-emergency back pain have been required since November 2007 to consult with a physiatrist — a rehabilitation physician — about treatment options before surgery. Fox said studies show that 90 percent of patients with acute back pain improve within six months with conservative care — aspirin, ibuprofen, education, light exercise and physical therapy when warranted. An estimated 1.2 million spinal surgeries are performed each year in the U.S., according to the National Center for Health Statistics. More than 300,000 are spinal fusions that average $60,000 per procedure. Some studies have shown that back surgery failure rate, known as failed back syndrome, is as high as 50 percent. That’s a dismal failure rate. So while insurance companies are in it to save money, in this case, they have their balance sheet and their patients’ best interests at heart. While this news is bad for back surgeons, it’s great for alternative therapy providers, physical therapists, acupuncturists, and chiropractors. Especially chiropractors, since chiropractic care is already seen as tailor-made for the relief of back and neck pain. To read more: http://bizmology.hoovers.com/2012/03/07/insurers-say-no-to-back-pain-but-yes-to-chiropractors/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=insurers-say-no-to-back-pain-but-yes-to-chiropractors It is a good thing insurance companies say enough to back pain surgery in most cases as the success rate of back surgery is not that good and it is cost prohibited to the average person. Even after an insurance company pay the usual and customary 80% on a $60,000 back surgery, the consumer is left owning $12,000 and often still suffers excruciating back pain. That doesn’t have to be the case. There are many complimentary and alternative processes from chiropractic care to energy medicine and energy psychology that get a much higher level of pain relief and even pain elimination for acute and chronic back pain. Categories: Pain Relief - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , energy healing , energy medicine , Energy Psychology , health and wellness , holistic healing , Holistic Health , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , insurance companies , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief Surgeon Leaves The System To Become A Holistic Health Healer Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · 2 Comments There is unrest in the modern medical community and you can see it show up when a surgeon leaves the system to become a holistic health healer . People are not aware that 80-90% of allopathic medical professionals use holistic health or alternative medicine practitioners to get and maintain health. In fact medical professionals use complementary and alternative medicine more than the general public and they usually don’t tell their patients as it can get them in hot water with the governing boards of the medical community. However more and more medical professionals are not only getting feed up, some are opting out of the modern medical machinery and continuing to be able to help more people. Here is new information from the Brandenton Herald . Surgeon Leaves The System To Become A Holistic Health Healer BALTIMORE — Not so long ago, Gina Sager set out to cure her patients by wielding a surgeon’s scalpel. Today, her preferred tool is a set of two small brass bells connected by a cord – though these, too, require all the precision and delicacy she can muster. “Tling” the bells call out just once, high and pure. There’s a pause, not too long and not too short, and once again, Sager rocks her hands just slightly: “Tling.” Sager waits, and gives the bells a third and final shake that’s just loud enough to be heard without startling the listeners in the class she’s teaching on mindfulness and stress reduction: “Tling.” Ten years ago, Sager, now 51, shut down her private medical practice, in part because she was sued for malpractice – she said wrongly – three times in five months. She walked away from a career as one of Maryland’s few board-certified female surgeons to study, and eventually teach, holistic healing. “I may have closed my practice and let my medical license expire, but I really believe I’m still a healer,” she said. “I still take care of people, but in a much less stressful environment and much more completely than I ever could before.” A new study seems to bear her out. According to a report released Feb. 15 by the Bravewell Collaborative, such nontraditional methods as meditation, yoga, acupuncture and herbal supplements can lessen the symptoms of certain chronic conditions. (The collaborative is a Minneapolis-based advocacy, research and funding group that promotes holistic practices.) In a survey of 29 integrative medicine centers in hospitals and medical schools throughout the U.S., doctors and patients reported success using holistic techniques in 75 percent of cases involving chronic pain; 59 percent alleviating gastrointestinal disorders; 55 percent in reducing depression and anxiety; 52 percent in lowering stress; and 52 percent in diminishing the discomfort caused by the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. While the percentage of some outcomes might appear little better than chance, advocates say a low-cost technique that helps many patients and causes no harm is valuable from a treatment perspective. “The important news in this research is that it can help treat chronic conditions,” said Delia Chiaramonte, who is the director of education for the University of Maryland School of Medicine’s Center for Integrative Medicine, which participated in the Bravewell study. “If you have meningitis, you need antibiotics. If you’ve been in a car accident and you have 20 broken bones, you need a trauma surgeon. But for many chronic conditions, we don’t have wonderful pharmacology we can use. “The results of the study are very heartening. It means that now we have a bigger toolbox for treating patients. “ Read more here: http://www.bradenton.com/2012/03/06/3920390/former-surgeon-left-her-career.html#storylink=cpy Holistic Health Healer So if you are not a health professional it is valuable to understand that your medical provider, i.e. your doctors and nurses are depending on holistic health means to get and stay healthy. So holistic health practitioners probably should be your first stop BEFORE you go to the medical doctor. Statistically, you will probably get better service and if you need to go on to the medical doctor, as the Bravewell study pointed out the percentages of help are higher than the accepted medical system gets at present. And don’t be surprise to find out that your holistic health practitioner might fall into the category of surgeon leaves the system to become a holistic health healer. Please spread the word about this so that more people realize the people you go to for health are going to holistic health practitioners for their health. Thank you for Sharing this, Liking this and tweeting this. Categories: Holistc Health - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , arthritis , back pain , belief systems , Cancer , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , energy medicine , Energy Psychology , health and wellness , holistic healer , Holistic Health , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , holistic health healer , holistic health practitioner , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief Pain Relief Requires No Classification Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment Pain Relief Requires No Classification I don’t know if you find it frustrating when talking about pain relief you hear people talking about classifications of pain instead of how to relieve pain. Pain Relief requires no classification whether or not some decide to classify pain. I ran across an United Kingdom article over at healingbackpain.co.uk that gives no information in the article about healing back pain or pain relief of any kind. Pain Relief Requires No Classification After many years of research and billions of pounds spent on medical treatments, not to mention more billions in loss of productivity for employers and loss of income for employees, back pain is still an ailment that refuses to be easily classified. There is an extensive list of possible causes, but physicians generally categorise back pain into three types. Acute back pain is commonly defined as pain that has been present for up to six weeks; sub-acute lasts six to twelve weeks; chronic defines back pain that lasts more than twelve weeks. As clinical definitions there are also three categories: non-specific back problems, sciatica and potentially serious spinal conditions. There are also various ‘high risk’ factors for back pain, not a comprehensive list but useful for a preliminary diagnosis. Some of these factors can be lessened by a change in lifestyle, some can’t. Among the former, the list includes lack of exercise, smoking, overweight, poor posture and ‘desk jobs’ or jobs that require constant lifting or bending or constant vibration (like operating a jackhammer). The latter category includes back injuries, age, gender (male) and spinal defects, amongst others. The majority of back pain falls in the acute category, namely sprains from overexertion or other events that cause ligaments to stretch too far and/or muscles to tear. Again, in the majority of cases pain goes away within a few days or weeks with rest and without any special treatment. However due to the complexity of the problem, physicians have developed a list of ‘red flags’ that could indicate more serious underlying problems. A red flag could be pain in the upper part of the spine, or pain accompanied by fever or weight loss, or first-time back pain in someone younger than 20 or older than 55. Other red flags or warning signs include back pain following a violent injury, constant pain that gets worse, and even ‘painless’ symptoms such as loss of sensation or loss of control of bladder or bowels. If there are no red flags in evidence, conservative treatment or no treatment at all is the usual procedure. The most effective initial course of action for patient and physician is a careful observation of symptoms and examination of the patient’s medical history and general lifestyle. To read more: http://www.healingbackpain.co.uk/back-pain-has-no-obvious-classification/ The truth of the matter pain relief requires no classification because when you relieve pain and eliminate it there is no class to put it in as there is no longer any pain. Please share this with anyone who is in pain and their doctor is trying to classify what kind of pain it is. Everyone deserves pain relief , not classification. Categories: Pain Relief - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , energy healing , energy medicine , health and wellness , Holistic Health , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , pain control , pain management , pain relief Preventing Lumbago Is Not A New Model of Winnebago. Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment My Aching Lumbago It’s not a new model of Winnebago.  In fact preventing lumbago is not about vans or trucks, lumbago is a term for back pain, or more accurately lower back pain. And there are easy ways to eliminate it today. Back pain is big business and they have divided pain into two categories with sub categories. The main categories are… acute – pain that last less than 6 weeks chronic – pain that last more than 12 weeks. With the new cutting edge technology that is being rediscovered and used today pain is more easily removed and eliminated and yet for the professionals getting them to look at, consider or even try the new paradigm is often a difficult endeavor. Here is something most professional agree with and yet it seems by the number of recurring lumbago patients it isn’t stressed that much. Preventing Lumbago From informedhealthonline.org : Preventing recurring low back pain A group of researchers from the Cochrane Collaboration – an international network of researchers – wanted to find out if physical exercise could prevent low back pain from recurring. They did a search for trials testing whether strength exercises, gymnastics and endurance training helped to prevent non-specific low back pain. In these trials volunteers were randomly divided into groups. These groups were then given different treatments and were then compared. The researchers found nine trials involving a total of about 1,500 participants. The exercise programs in the trials started at different points in the treatment process: In five of the trials the participants already started doing exercises while they were still having treatment for acute pain. In the other four trials the participants only started doing exercises once the pain had improved. In most of the trials, the exercises were led by a physiotherapist. The exercise sessions lasted between 15 minutes and one hour, and the participants exercised several times a week for up to a few months. People whose back pain had a known cause, such as bone fractures, tumors or infections, did not participate in the trials. It helps to do exercises once treatment is over Exercises after treatment In some trials the participants started doing special exercises led by a physiotherapist once their treatment for acute symptoms was completed. They were compared with a group of people who did not follow this kind of exercise program. The outcome: exercises led to fewer recurrences of low back pain in the first two years. In two smaller trials researchers tested a program using regular exercise following treatment of acute symptoms and looked at how many of the participants had low back pain returning within the first two years: 33 out of 100 people in the exercise group had a further bout of low back pain. 65 out of 100 people who did not do exercises had a further bout of low back pain. Other small-scale trials that tested using a regular exercise program after treatment of acute symptoms looked at how often people took sick leave from work. The researchers found that those who had the exercise programs took sick leave just as often as those who did not, but they did have fewer days of absence overall. To read more: http://www.informedhealthonline.org/low-back-pain-can-exercise-prevent-recurrences.686.en.html Yes exercise is a good way to prevent pain of any kind returning. And with the new cutting edge pain elimination protocols a much higher  percentage of people can get pain relief. So if you think preventing lumbago is a good idea share this article with others. Categories: Pain Relief - Tags: acute pain , alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , health and wellness , Holistic Health , Holistic Health Alternatives , lower back pain , lumbago , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief , stress , stress relief Cutting Edge Pain Treatments Really? Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment Cutting Edge Pain Treatments Really? Sometimes I can’t believe what I read. I saw a headline about 9 news ways to relieve chronic back pain and since I like to study and learn cutting edge technology I thought I would learn something so I went to the article and I learned something alright and it was probably just what I needed to learn. Cutting edge technology and being on the cutting edge really does leave you out there. Cutting Edge Pain Treatments Really? Here is some of the article by Diane Wedner in lifescript healthy living for women . You’ve tried all the typical back-pain treatments, from anti-inflammatory drugs to physical therapy, with little relief. But don’t give up: There’s hope with cutting-edge therapies, from new drug regimens to surgeries that target the spine. Lifescript’s Medical Detective uncovers the top new treatments for chronic back pain… Millions of women suffer from chronic back pain, triggered by pregnancy, toting tots, hauling groceries and those heavy purses that hold everything but the kitchen sink. It all takes a toll on the spine, triggering pain that can turn everyday movements into agonizing impossibilities. “Back pain is the major cause of pain and disability in this country,” says anesthesiologist George W. Pasvankas, M.D., medical director of the Pain Management Center at the University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine. “It’s the most frequent [reason patients ask] for medical care.” Most back pain problems are short-lived and can be eased with mild exercise and anti-inflammatory drugs, doctors say. But that’s not true for about 26 million Americans with chronic back pain. They live with excruciating aches and spasms that last 6 weeks or longer. They can’t get relief with over-the-counter analgesics or gentle yoga poses. Now, some cutting-edge remedies are providing pain relief where ordinary therapies and medications fail. Lifescript’s Medical Detective unveils the top 9 breakthroughs for the most difficult back pain cases. Now with an introduction like that you would think there would be at least some discussion of the breakthroughs being used in some of the Behavioral Hospitals around the country, if not some of the cutting edge Energy and Quantum Vibrational technology out that is getting higher percentages than most everything available. Here are the 9 breakthroughs found in this article. (I say breakthroughs as it pertains to the modern medical community and not to the pain relief community.) Chronic back pain treatments #1: Gabapentin Chronic back pain treatments #2: Methadone Chronic back pain treatments #3: Ketamine Chronic back pain treatments #4: Pain pump Chronic back pain treatments #5: Sympathetic nerve blocks Chronic back pain treatments #6: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) Chronic back pain treatments #7: Spinal cord stimulation Chronic back pain treatments #8: Kyphoplasty Chronic back pain treatments #9: Lumbar decompression To read more… http://www.lifescript.com/health/centers/pain/articles/9_new_ways_to_relieve_chronic_back_pain.aspx?utm_campaign=2012-01-27-103969&utm_source=healthy-advantage&utm_medium=email&utm_content=todays-headlines_9_New_Ways_to_Relieve_&FromNL=1&sc_date=20120127T000000 All the things that should be the last resort are the first response. Now do you see why I the title of this is cutting edge pain treatments really? Every single one of these involve either another medication, shoots and/or surgery. When are we ever gonna learn. Using the same thing that we’ve been using before will get the same results. A small percentage will get relief and the majority will continue to suffer. Using actual cutting edge technology we are seeing some tremendous results with relief, reduction and eliminating of pain. And in most cases in 1 to 3 sessions even with chronic pain. Please like this page and share it with others if you want the word to spread. Categories: Pain Relief - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , arthritis , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , cutting edge pain treatments , health and wellness , holistic healing , Holistic Health , Holistic Health Alternatives , lifescript healthy living for women , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief Which Healing and Health Model Is Better | Holistic Health Daily Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment Most people are vaguely aware that there are options to the modern medical system but which healing and health model is better ? In order to help clear up the differences between what is available and what they do here is a chart of the 3 different types of medicine that you have access too. What many are not aware of is that the modern medical establishment, known as allopathic medicine is not focused on healing or health, even though there are times when allopathic medicine can be of great use. For a broken bone or to replace a kidney most people would go for the allopathic route even though a few have gone the Quantum route and been quite surprised with the results. Allopathic is best suited for urgent, immediate physical trauma, where Holistic and Quantum are extremely good at prevention and recovery. For mental, emotional, psychological or spiritual trauma Quantum is best and holistic is a close second with allopathic far behind. (Just knowing these differences can mean the difference between pain, suffering and monthly medication bills and relief and the prospects of living a fulfilling life. This chart comes form an article from Balanced Living Magazine Which Healing and Health Model Is Better? To read the full article: http://balancedlivingmagazine.com/allopathic-medicine-holistic-medicine-or-quantum-medicine/ As a prime example let’s use pain and pain management. Allopathic medicine’s answer is pharmaceutical drug prescription to mask or reduce the pain. From this focus people wind up drugged unable to fully function and still having chronic pain. The holistic approach is better as it looks for the root cause of the pain in an effort through nutritional or physical body manipulation (chiropractic-acupuncture,  and some times emotional work) to reduce and eventually eliminate the pain. Quantum-Vibrational medicine includes the holistic approach as a way of maintenance while it’s main goal is the elimination of the information in the energy system that causes the problem originally so pain elimination is the goal. As my Grampa Vetter would say, “ The best form of pain management is pain elimination .” You always have a choice even when you are not aware of the choices so if you are wondering which healing and health model is better , it will depend on where you are and what you are wanting to accomplish. The more you are acquainted with different types of medicine available to you the more you can get faster results. Please like this and share it with others… Thank YOU! Categories: Holistc Health - Tags: allopathic medicine , alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , back pain relief , belief systems , Cancer , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , disease prevention , drug side effects , energy healing , energy medicine , Energy Psychology , health and wellness , holistic healing , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief , pharmaceutical drugs , preventative medicine , quantum medicine The Physical Cause of Your Back Pain Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment When you get back pain you usually go looking for the physical cause of your back pain . Most people and their doctor know very little about using the right equipment ot locate the physical cause of your back pain . I like what a physician Andrew Haig said in an article at care2.com even though he as most physicians miss the source of back pain… An EMG, or electromyogram, is a test that’s been around for decades, but doctors have only recently started using it again on patients with back pain, thanks to new research showing its effectiveness as a diagnostic tool. Unlike an MRI that simply takes a photograph of the spine, the EMG registers electrical activity in the muscles surrounding the spine. This method can more accurately identify the source of pain, says Andrew Haig, a physician and professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation at the University of Michigan Health System. “Taking a photo of a car with a dent in it isn’t going to tell you whether the radio works, and taking a photo of an old spine isn’t going to tell you if it hurts,” Haig says. In fact, having an MRI could even be bad for you, Haig says. Most older spines have some sort of disc degeneration or other problems, and surgeons often identify those issues as the source of the back pain and a reason to operate. But studies have found that people with disc problems aren’t necessarily in pain. And fixing disc problems isn’t a sure way to relieve pain. How it works: To perform an EMG, a doctor inserts needle electrodes through the skin and into the back muscles. The electrodes test the amount of electrical or nerve activity in the muscle when tense and at rest. The doctor then analyzes the results — which look like line graphs — looking for abnormal nerve activity, which would potentially rule out a disc problem as the source of the pain. Avoiding surgery is a primary reason to have the EMG test. “EMG for back pain has almost zero false positives,” says Haig. Read more: http://www.care2.com/greenliving/whats-causing-your-back-pain.html#ixzz1ejeqIeYp Even though Dr. Haig has shown a more accurate way to find the physical cause of back pain it is still like trying to place a bet on a horse race with the horses already halfway around the track. Finding the physical cause of back pain does not stop the source of the pain from repeating or moving to another location to keep the pain going. In Energy psychology we know that the cause of pain is a disruption in the energy system. A disruption of the balance and flow and once that is restored pain goes away and it goes away quickly. A broken bone is definitely evidence of a disruption in someones energy system. And how many people do you know who after the broken or cracked bone was mended they still had aches and pains? What most doctors miss when addressing the physical cause of your back pain is the source of the physical cause which is a disruption in the energy flow and balance. 90% of the time there are other causes other than the physical components of your back pain. We are here to help. Have you ever considered what’s behind the physical cause of your back pain? Categories: Pain Relief - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , health and wellness , Holistic Health , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief What To Do About Back Pain? Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment So many people today have aches and pains and pretty much everyone knows someone with back pain so the question becomes what to do about back pain ? There has been a lot written about back pain and I like this article from Healthism… They address six different areas and here is some of what they have to say… What is back pain? Back pain is pain or discomfort felt in the back because of some damage to muscles, bones, joints and nerves of the spine. It is one of the most common ailments that affect people. According to the American College of Physicians, back pain is the second-most common reason for visits to doctors in the United States alone. As much as 85 percent of the population is affected by back pain at least once in their lifetimes. Low back pain is a major cause of missed work and disability in the U.S. and as much as $50 billion are spent to treat it according to the National Institutes of Health. Symptoms Back pain is felt in different ways. Some people experience stiffness or a dull ache along the spine. Sometimes the pain can be sharp but limited to one specific area such as the neck or lower back. Back pain can also radiate from the spine into the thighs, legs and toes. Back pain can be so severe that some people are unable to stand straight because of excruciating pain or strong muscle spasms. Tingling, numbness or weakness of legs may indicate spinal cord damage. Some back pain is accompanied by weight loss, fever, bowel or urinary problems and other symptoms that require immediate medical attention. Causes Injuries are one of the most common causes of back pain. Heavy lifting, twisting, awkward motions and repetitive actions can strain the muscle and ligaments of the back. Fractures can also result from accidents and falls. Risk Factors The risk of developing back pain increases with age but all age groups, including children, are affected. School children are increasingly having back pain from carrying heavy bags and school supplies (U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission). Most cases of back pain are reported in the 30 to 50 year-old age group. Lack of exercise among this group has compounded the effects of aging on the spine. The elderly are particularly vulnerable to back pain because their bones become brittle and porous due to osteoporosis. They are also prone to falls and injuries that can exacerbate their back pain. Tests and Diagnosis Diagnostic tests include blood tests, x-ray, computerized tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. Other tests include discography, bone scans and thermography. Electromyography (EMG), nerve conduction and evoked potential studies are sometimes used. Treatment and Drugs Conservative management include ice and heat application, short-term bed rest, exercise and rehabilitation. The majority of back pain cases are resolved by these measures alone. However, many people will have to take medications to control their back pain. Complementary and Alternative Medicine Back pain can be treated effectively by alternative medicine. The National Institutes of Health says that acupuncture can relieve pain. Chiropractic care, osteopathy, massage and physical therapy have been used by many people with back pain. To Read the full article that goes into further depth on each: http://healthism.com/knowledge-center/low-back-pain/articles/back-pain-symptoms-causes-and-treatment So the question what to do about back pain has multiple answers. However for those who have tried multiple answers and are still suffering from back pain using Quantum Medicine (Quantum Innergetics) is probably one of the quickest and fastest ways to get pain relief and solve the issue of back pain forever. Who do you know that you want to send this on too? Categories: Uncategorized - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , arthritis , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , energy healing , energy medicine , health and wellness , holistic healing , holistic health for back pain relief , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief A List of Pain Relief Options Written by Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on · Leave a Comment Because more and more people every day are suffering from pain of some sort a list of pain relief options is a useful thing to have around. Backpainabc.com wrote an article that listed some options from holistic to conventional pain relief option… Oral Pain Relief Now, when most people think of pain relief is the first thing that comes to mind aspirin or other form of oral medication. In fact, we have been conditioned to believe that “something to take for the pain” and this usually involves some form of a pill. In severe or chronic pain, opioids are often prescribed. Morphine and heroin are two common opiates, and you’ll usually see in these cancer patients, pain medications such as pain medication of last resort. Opiates are reserved as a highly addictive and usually for terminally ill patients. Pain Relief Injections One of the heavier, but useful types of pain come in the form of injections. Cortisone treatments are common in athletes and requires an injection directly into the muscle or nerve pain caused. This type of pain relief is very effective, but it can not be performed at regular intervals by tissue damage. Therefore, it is recommended only for temporary relief of acute pain. Physical therapy Physical therapy is often regarded as a means to build muscles and damaged nerves after trauma again. However, the physical therapy is also used as a natural form of pain relief. Whirlpool therapy, deep muscle massage and ultrasound are all forms of physical therapy used in natural pain management. Acupuncture Pain Relief Although not widely recognized by the medical community as a legitimate form of pain relief, this Oriental treatment has been around for centuries and is considered by his followers as a very effective pain management tool. Acupuncture specialists to many thin, tiny needles at various pressure points on the body. The pressure points in which a practitioner applies the needles from the source of pain. Although it is not a proven form of pain relief, acupuncture has to remain a natural alternative to the conventional and accepted forms of pain management. Topical Pain Relief Finally, there are topical ointments, creams and liquids that can be applied directly to an affected area for temporary pain relief. Topical pain relief has the advantage of reducing pain more quickly than oral medications, such as invasive without the injections. While current pain relief is not recommended for the relief of chronic pain, it is very effective with short-term relief of mild pain. To Read the full article go here http://www.backpainabc.com/pain-relief-options-natural-and-medical.php Even though this is not a comprehensive list of pain relief options it is a good start. Most things that would make a list of pain relief options are usually not immediate and usually only reduce the pain and does not eliminate the pain. We here at Holistic Health Daily believe that everyone one deserves the option of pain elimination and fast almost immediate relief. That is why we recommend Quantum  Vibrational Innergetics to be added to a list of pain relief options . What are your thoughts on the subject? Categories: Holistc Health - Tags: alternative medicine , alternative medicine therapy , back pain , back pain relief , chronic back pain , chronic back pain sufferers , Complementary and Alternative Medicine , health and wellness , Holistic Health Alternatives , holistic health for back pain relief , pain control , pain elimination , pain management , pain relief Next Page » Get Your FREE Clearing Audio Today! Kindle Kindle Three Systems of Medicine Video Series Have you ever asked the question self healing uses how much energy? I bet you never did and yet self healing really is energy healing at its best. Everything is made of energy and self healing is the moving of energy in a good way so as to restore balance and flow to your system. [...] Read more » Recent Posts The Secret vs Wayne Dyer’s Wishes Fulfilled How Not To Be A Victim Lower Back Pain Relief with Yoga [VIDEO] How Happy Is Your Happiness? The Science of Consciousness Recent Comments Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on Lower Back Pain Relief with Yoga [VIDEO] Marcel Garbi on Lower Back Pain Relief with Yoga [VIDEO] George on Holistic Health: [VIDEO] What Is Your Spiritual Awareness Level? Dr. Houston Vetter - DocResults: Holistic Health Editor on Surgeon Leaves The System To Become A Holistic Health Healer Kathryn on Surgeon Leaves The System To Become A Holistic Health Healer Categories Select Category Alternative Medicine  (65) Alternative Medicine Therapy  (8) Complementary and Alternative Medicine  (16) Energy Medicine  (9) Holistic Medicine  (1) Consciousness and Awareness  (3) Emotions  (1) Emotional Control  (1) Healing  (18) Alternative Healing  (2) Energy Healing  (6) Holistic Healing  (5) Psychic Healing  (1) Self Healing  (3) Spiritual Healing  (1) Holistc Health  (140) Hypnosis  (2) Self Hypnosis  (1) Meditation  (16) Mental Health  (11) Mental Training  (6) Nutrition  (5) Pain Relief  (8) Spirituality  (24) Spiritual Awakening  (17) Spiritual Awareness  (3) Uncategorized  (14) Admin Login Powered by Catalyst Copyright © 2012 Holistic Health Daily Lower Back Pain Reli How to Achieve Lower Back Pain Relief Knowledge Concerning How To Achieve Lower Back Pain Relief Treating Lower Back Pain With Acupuncture Pain Relief Your Period Pinched Nerve in Back Success Stories Solutions To Make Your Everyday Chronic Back Pain  A lot less Painful › FreeArticlesHome.Net Wonderful world How You Can Deal With  Debilitating Back Pain › FreeArticlesHome.Net When you subscribe we will send you this FREE Special Report on "Does The Secret Work" and send you our Web magazine "B