Content-Type: text/html
Content-Location: http://www.ticotimes.net/dailyarchive/2007_03/030107.htm
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2007 04:43:10 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "2776e81cbc5bc71:1ff5"
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Connection: close

Today's News - Online Daily Update to The  Tico Times Weekly Edition Newspaper - Costa Rica's Best Journalistic New Source March 01, 2007 LOGIN | SUBSCRIBE | ADVERTISE | MEDIA KIT DISPLAY ADS CLASSIFIED ADS PLACE A CLASSIFIED Media Kit Display Ads Classifieds Info Place Classified GUIDEBOOKS | BACK ISSUES | COMPLETE EDITION SINGLE ARTICLE Complete Article Single Article ARCHIVE SEARCH | CONTACT US | ABOUT US INTERNSHIP INFORMATION NEWSSTANDS Internship Newsstands | Home | Top Story | Business & Real Estate | Weekend Section > Costa Rica Arts and Culture Costa Rica Travel Costa Rica Fishing | The Nica Times | Daily News | Letters to the Editor | Classified Ads | Exchange Rates Central Bank Reference Rate BUY 517.01 SELL 520.97 | Previous Daily News | Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday FIRED Up about Ferries: Approximately 50 protestors from the Nicoya Peninsula town of Paquera, home of a community association that runs ferries to the Pacific port of Puntarenas, made their voices heard outside Casa Presidencial in San José yesterday. According to Paquera Integral Development Association (ADIP) manager Eddie Novo, the Public Works and Transport Ministry (MOPT) has granted the concession for the ferries to Naviera Tambor, part of multinational company Grupo Barceló, starting today; previously, Tambor and ADIP shared the concession, each running separate ferries across the gulf. Novo told The Tico Times that ADIP lost the concession because it didn't comply with requirements such as regulations regarding exits from the ferry, but he claims Naviera Tambor has made mistakes as well and the community association deserves another shot. ADIP is the small community's primary source of employment, he said. Chelcey Adami | Tico Times Health Minister Declares 
Whooping-Cough Emergency The government yesterday declared a state of “sanitary emergency” following the death of four babies from pertussis, also known as whooping cough, a respiratory disease particularly serious in young infants, during the past month. According to Public Health Minister Maria Luisa Avila, the country needs to begin vaccinating parents, who are the primary culprits in inadvertently passing pertussis bacteria to their children. See More... Body of Canadian Man Found Floating at Sea A body found floating in the Pacific Gulf of Nicoya was identified yesterday as a Canadian man named Wolfgang Brown, 51, according to a statement from the Judicial Investigation Police (OIJ). A fisherman found the body Tuesday near Playa Blanca. See More... Gas Prices on the Up and Up The trend of climbing gas prices has continued so far this year. The Public Services Regulatory Authority (ARESEP) Tuesday approved an increase in the price of regular and super gas, according to a statement from ARESEP. See More... March 01 Andre Paradis Abstract landscape paintings, today through March 31, National Gallery, National Children's Museum, San José. Info: 258-4929. Spanish Breed Horse Fair Today through Sunday, Club Típico La Caraña, 1kilometer west of Forum office complex, Santa Ana, west of San José. Info: 291-6810. Edited By Amanda Roberson Tico Times Staff | aroberson@ticotimes.net Health Minister Declares Whooping-Cough Emergency By Katherine Stanley Tico Times Staff | kstanley@ticotimes.net The government yesterday declared a state of “sanitary emergency” following the death of four babies from pertussis, also known as whooping cough, a respiratory disease particularly serious in young infants, during the past month. According to Public Health Minister Maria Luisa Avila, the country needs to begin vaccinating parents, who are the primary culprits in inadvertently passing pertussis bacteria to their children. Avila said the Health Ministry is planning a 42,000-dose, $320,000 vaccination campaign in the near future, focusing on mothers and their partners. Of the reported cases of whooping cough at the National Children's Hospital in San José, 66% of the children got the disease from their mothers, 20% from their fathers and the rest from other family members, she said. Any adult or adolescent with a cough that lasts more than a week and is not accompanied by a fever may have whooping cough and should seek medical evaluation for any children in their homes, Avila added. Whooping cough is treated using antibiotics. Over the course of the coming year, the government plans to expand the campaign by purchasing 140,000 doses of the vaccine from the World Health Organization (WHO) to immunize this year's newborns, increasing the investment to $1.2 million. She added that the four children who died recently were less than two months old and lived in shantytowns, and that the provinces of Cartago, east of San José, and Heredia, north of San José, have been the hardest hit by the disease. Since November 2005, 11 children have died here from whooping cough, according to the wire service ACAN-EFE. In its advanced stages, the disease produces a cough with a sound like a “whoop,” giving the illness its name. Body of Canadian Man Found Floating at Sea By Amanda Roberson Tico Times Staff | aroberson@ticotimes.net A body found floating in the Pacific Gulf of Nicoya was identified yesterday as a Canadian man named Wolfgang Brown, 51, according to a statement from the Judicial Investigation Police (OIJ). A fisherman found the body Tuesday near Playa Blanca. Preliminary reports from the OIJ morgue show that the body had a rope tied around its chest connected to a sack with a rock inside it. The daily La Nación reported that an English-language Bible was also inside the sack. Brown had lived in the Pacific city of Paquera for several years and had Costa Rican residency, the statement said. The OIJ morgue is studying his body to determine his cause of death, a difficult task since it had been floating at sea for approximately 72 hours when it was discovered, said OIJ spokeswoman Mariela Cervantes. Gas Prices on the Up and Up The trend of climbing gas prices has continued so far this year. The Public Services Regulatory Authority (ARESEP) Tuesday approved an increase in the price of regular and super gas, according to a statement from ARESEP. The hike will increase the price of one liter of super gas from ¢466 ($0.90) to ¢483 ($0.93), while regular gas will jump from ¢440 ($0.85) to ¢459 ($0.88). Additionally, one liter of airplane fuel will increase from ¢482 ($0.93) to ¢511 ($0.98). ARESEP approved these price increases upon reviewing a request from National Oil Refinery (RECOPE) citing fuel price variations on the international market, the statement said. These new prices will go into effect as soon as they are printed in the official government daily La Gaceta, expected no later than Monday. This price increase follows a 2.23% increase in the gas tax, which is subject by law to review every three months because of inflation. The tax increase -- which applies to super and regular gas, diesel fuel, airplane fuel and cooking gas -- went into effect yesterday. Yesterday, the price of diesel also went up from ¢347 ($0.67) to ¢349 ($0.67) while cooking gas increased from ¢262 ($0.50) to ¢263 ($0.51), marking the second increase in gas prices so far this year, according to the daily La Nación. -Tico Times http://www.ticotimes.net/dailyarchive/2007_03/030107.htm a RETURN TO THE TOP OF PAGE Home | SUBSCRIBE | ADVERTISE | GUIDEBOOKS | BACK ISSUES | ARCHIVE SEARCH | CONTACT US | ABOUT US | NEWSSTANDS | LINKS Call us at 258-1558 inside Costa Rica or from the U.S. 011 (506) 258-1558. * Fax us at 233-6378 inside Costa Rica or 