< 0.05). The responders of the verum group showed a reduction in the total cholesterol values from 298.5 +/- 53.8 to 293.0 +/- 56.4 mg/dl after 1 month and a total reduction of 10.4% after 2 months to 267.6 +/- 44.4 mg/dl. The difference after 2 months of treatment was significantly different from the starting value (p < 0.05). After the 2 months treatment phase there was a 2 weeks wash-out period. During this period the total cholesterol value returned to 293.5 +/- 90.1 mg/dl showing the effectiveness of garlic treatment, but indicating the need for a continuous long-term therapy. Kimbel KH Ginkgo biloba [letter; comment] In: Lancet (1992 Dec 12) 340(8833):1474 Kleijnen J Knipschild P Ginkgo biloba [see comments] In: Lancet (1992 Nov 7) 340(8828):1136-9 Kleijnen J Knipschild P Ginkgo biloba for cerebral insufficiency. In: Br J Clin Pharmacol (1992 Oct) 34(4):352-8 1. By means of a critical review we tried to establish whether there is evidence from controlled trials in humans on the efficacy of Ginkgo biloba extracts in cerebral insufficiency. 2. The methodological quality of 40 trials on Ginkgo and cerebral insufficiency was assessed using a list of predefined criteria of good methodology, and the outcome of the trials was interpreted in relation to their quality. A comparison of the quality was made with trials of co-dergocrine, which is registered for the same indication. 3. There were eight well performed trials out of a total of 40. Shortcomings were limited numbers of patients included, and incomplete description of randomization procedures, patient characteristics, effect measurement and data presentation. In no trial was double-blindness checked. Virtually all trials reported positive results, in most trials the dosage was 120 mg Ginkgo extract a day, given for at least 4-6 weeks. For the best trials, there were no marked differences in the quality of the evidence of the efficacy of Ginkgo in cerebral insufficiency compared with co-dergocrine. The results of the review may be complicated by a combination of publication bias and other biases, because there were no negative results reported in many trials of low methodological quality. 4. Positive results have been reported for Ginkgo biloba extracts in the treatment of cerebral insufficiency. The clinical evidence is similar to that of a registered product which is prescribed for the same indication. However, further studies should be conducted for a more detailed assessment of the efficacy. Kleijnen J Knipschild P The comprehensiveness of Medline and Embase computer searches. Searches for controlled trials of homoeopathy, ascorbic acid for common cold and ginkgo biloba for cerebral insufficiency and intermittent claudication. In: Pharm Weekbl Sci (1992 Oct 16) 14(5):316-20 OBJECTIVE: To assess the comprehensiveness of Medline and Embase computer searches for controlled trials. DESIGN: Comparison of articles found after an exhaustive search of the literature with the yield of a Medline or Embase search. This was performed for controlled clinical trials on the efficacy of three interventions: homoeopathy, ascorbic acid for common cold, and ginkgo biloba for intermittent claudication and cerebral insufficiency. The number of controlled trials found by exhaustive search of the literature was 107, 61 and 45, respectively. RESULTS: For homoeopathy, ascorbic acid and ginkgo the proportion of all trials found by Medline was 17%, 36% and 31% respectively and for Embase 13%, 25% and 58% respectively. After checking of the references in the Medline articles 44%, 79% and 76% of all trials were identified. After checking of the references in the Embase articles 42%, 72% and 93% of all trials were identified. About 20% of the articles was not correctly indexed. Of the best trials 68%, 91% and 83% could be found with Medline and 55%, 82% and 92% of the best trials were identified through Embase. CONCLUSIONS: For the topics mentioned, Medline and Embase searches are sufficient to get an impression of the evidence from controlled trials, but only if references in the articles are followed for further evidence. If one wants to get a more complete picture, additional search strategies make sense. Of course, this picture may be different for other topics. Kobayashi N Suzuki R Koide C Suzuki T Matsuda H Kubo M [Effect of leaves of Ginkgo biloba on hair regrowth in C3H strain mice] In: Yakugaku Zasshi (1993 Oct) 113(10):718-24 (Published in Japanese) Effects of 70% ethanolic extract from leaves of Ginkgo biloba (GBE) on the hair regrowth in normal and high butter diet-pretreated C3H strain mice which posterior hair we shaved were investigated. GBE showed a promoting effect on the hair regrowth. GBE had the inhibitory effects on blood platelet aggregation, thrombin activity and fibrinolysis. GBE inhibited the increase of serum the triglyceride level in high cholesterol diet-treated rats. These results suggested that GBE promotes the hair regrowth and could be used as a hair tonic. Koltringer P Langsteger W Klima G Reisecker F Eber O [Hemorheologic effects of ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761. Dose- dependent effect of EGb 761 on microcirculation and viscoelasticity of blood] In: Fortschr Med (1993 Apr 10) 111(10):170-2 (Published in German) Method: In a randomized open clinical trial involving 42 patients with pathological visco-elasticity values, the effect of a single intravenous injection of 50, 100, 150 or 200 mg of the Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761, commercially available as Tebonin p.i. on the microcirculation of the skin (Doppler flowmetry) and the visco- elasticity of whole blood was investigated. Results: A dose-dependent significant increase in the microcirculation was found. In the case of visco-elasticity, this dose-dependence was less marked. The present study thus confirms the positive effect of EGb 761 on the microcirculation and whole-blood visco-elasticity in patients with pathological visco-elasticity values, already found in earlier studies, and shows it to be dependent on the dose employed. Krauskopf R., Guinot Ph., Peetz H.G.: Long term on line EEG analysei de monstrating the pharmaco-dynamic effect of a defined Ginkgo biloba extract. In: Beaufour -Schwabe Internat. Report, 1983. Kunkel H EEG profile of three different extractions of Ginkgo biloba. In: Neuropsychobiology (1993) 27(1):40-5 Two experiment were conducted to assess the electroencephalographic effects of (1) three different dosages of a total extract of Ginkgo biloba (EGb 761, Tebonin) and (2) three different extractions of G. biloba (Tebonin and two fractions from it). The medicament was tested against placebo using a double-blind cross-over design in 12 normal healthy males for each experiment. Medication was administered for 3 days preceding the recording sessions. 25 parameters were computed from the EEG spectra. Medication-related effects were obtained for most of the power measures, whereas dominant frequencies of the respective frequency band remained largely unchanged. The differences between the EEG effects of the two studies are critically discussed. Lee K Ku JR Koh SD Kim KS Effects of methanol extract of ginkgo biloba (EGb), its ethylacetate fraction (EAF) and butanol fraction (BF) on the isolated aorta. In: Jpn J Pharmacol (1992) 58 Suppl 2:377P Long R Yin R Zhen Y [Partial purification and analysis of allergenicity, immunogenicity of Ginkgo biloba L. pollen] In: Hua Hsi I Ko Ta Hsueh Hsueh Pao (1992 Sep) 23(4):429-32 (Published in Chinese) Pollens of Ginkgo biloba L. (G.b.l.p) have been found to be a kind of important allergen which causes pollinosis in Chengdu . The goal of this study is to purify G.b.l.p and to determine the allergenicity and immunogenicity of various fractions. Crude extract was purified by gel filtration with Sephadex G25, then G75. Two elution peaks were observed. On SDS-PAGE, the molecular weights of protein of the 1st peak and the valley were 30-42 kd and 13-18kd, respectively, and that of the 2nd peak was less than 13 kd. 40 patients with allergic rhinitis and/or asthma underwent the skin test with crude extract and various fractions of gel filtration; it revealed that the strongest allergenic activity existed in the 1st peak and there was mild allergenic activity in the 2nd peak. The in vitro allergenic activity and immunogenic activity of various fractions were examined by ELISA inhibition test. It was further confirmed that the allergenic activity and immunogenic activity of the 1st peak were the strongest, and those of the 2nd peak were the lowest. It is suggested that diagnosing reagents can be made satisfactorily by partial purification, i.e. discarding the inactive fractions, since allergenicity exists in various fragments. But fractions of allergen with high IgG immunogenicity should be selected to produce immunotherapy agents so as to enhance the production of blocking antibody and thus improve the therapeutic effect. Marcocci L Maguire JJ Droy- Lefaix MT Packer L The nitric oxide-scavenging properties of Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761. In: Biochem Biophys Res Commun (1994 Jun 15) 201(2):748-55 Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 was found to be a scavenger of nitric oxide in in vitro acellular systems, under physiological conditions. EGb 761 competed with oxyhemoglobin for reaction with nitric oxide generated during the interaction of hydroxylamine with Complex I of catalase. An EGb 761 dose-dependent decrease in the amount of nitrite formed in the reaction of oxygen with nitric oxide produced from solution of 5 mM sodium nitroprusside was also observed. These data implicate it as a potential therapeutic agent in conditions of altered production of nitric oxide. Olivier-J; Plath-P Combined low power laser therapy and extracts of Ginkgo biloba in a blind trial of treatment for tinnitus. In: Laser Therapy (1993) 5(3): 137-139 Tinnitus is an annoying and often debilitating condition of neurootologic origin but of uncertain aetiology. Many treatment methods have been tried, but to date none has been consistently successful. The present preliminary study presents a blind trial of laser therapy (c/w HeNe 632.8 nm and pulsed GaAs 904 nm) combined with doses of an extract of Ginkgo biloba (50 mg) in two groups of 20 patients, one experimental and one control. All 40 patients received the biloba extract injection, but only the 20 experimental patients received real laser irradiation, 8 days, 8 min per day. The control group received sham irradiation in a blind arrangement. Fifty percent of the experimental group was assessed to have a reduction in tinnitus of more than 10 dB, compared with 5% in the control group in both self-assessment and audiometric findings. Although only a preliminary report, the results are very encouraging, and the authors suggest that this combined photochemotherapy is a promising treatment for tinnitus. Otani M Chatterjee SS Gabard B Kreutzberg GW Effect of an extract of Ginkgo biloba on triethyltin-induced cerebral edema. In: ACTA NEUROPATHOL (BERL) (1986) 69(1-2):54-65 The effect of an extract of Ginkgo biloba was studied on cerebral edema in rats intoxicated with triethyltin chloride (TET). Brains of TET-treated rats showed elevated water and sodium levels and a significant increase in the sodium/potassium ratio. Animals treated with TET plus the extract did not show water and electrolyte changes. The course of intoxication and treatment was studied light- and electron-microscopically. A severe edema with extensive vacuolization was seen in the cerebral and cerebellar white matter. Morphometric measurements revealed a significant decrease in these manifestations of the cytotoxic edema when the animals were treated with an extract of Ginkgo biloba. Thus, we conclude that this extract has a protective effect on the development of a cytotoxic edema in the white matter of the brain. Oyama Y Fuchs PA Katayama N Noda K Myricetin and quercetin, the flavonoid constituents of Ginkgo biloba extract, greatly reduce oxidative metabolism in both resting and Ca(2+)-loaded brain neurons. In: Brain Res (1994 Jan 28) 635(1-2):125-9 The antioxidant action of myricetin and quercetin, the flavonoid constituents of the extract of Ginkgo biloba (EGb), on oxidative metabolism of brain neurons dissociated from the rats was examined using 2', 7'-dichlorofluorescin (DCFH) which is retained within the neuron and then is oxidized by cellular hydrogen peroxide to be highly fluorescent. Incubation with myricetin or quercetin reduced the oxidation of DCFH in resting brain neurons, more profoundly than EGb. Myricetin decreased the oxidative metabolism at concentrations of 3 nM or more. It was 10 nM or more for the case of quercetin. Incubation with each flavonoid constituent also reduced the Ca(2+)- induced increase in the oxidative metabolism without affecting the cellular content of DCFH or the intracellular concentrations of Ca2+. Such an antioxidant action of myricetin or quercetin may be responsible for a part of the beneficial effects of EGb on brain neurons subject to ischemia. Oyama Y Hayashi A Ueha T Ca(2+)-induced increase in oxidative metabolism of dissociated mammalian brain neurons: effect of extract of ginkgo biloba leaves. In: Jpn J Pharmacol (1993 Apr) 61(4):367-70 Effect of an extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves (EGb) on oxidative metabolism was studied using rat brain neurons and 2', 7'- dichlorofluorescin fluorescence. Ionomycin (100 nM to 1 microM), a Ca(2+)-ionophore, dose-dependently augmented the 2', 7'- dichlorofluorescin fluorescence in the presence of external Ca2+, but not under the external Ca(2+)-free condition. Preincubation of neurons with EGb (3 micrograms/ml) greatly reduced the ionomycin- induced increase in 2', 7'-dichlorofluorescin fluorescence. Results suggest that EGb may reduce the Ca(2+)-induced increase in the oxidative metabolism of brain neurons. Oyama Y Ueha T Hayashi A Chikahisa L Noda K Flow cytometric estimation of the effect of Ginkgo biloba extract on the content of hydrogen peroxide in dissociated mammalian brain neurons. In: Jpn J Pharmacol (1992 Dec) 60(4):385-8 The effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) on the content of hydrogen peroxide was estimated in cerebellar neurons dissociated from rats, by means of a flow-cytometer and 2', 7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF) diacetate, a fluorescent dye for intracellular hydrogen peroxide. The GBE started to reduce the DCF fluorescence of the neuron at 0.1 microgram/ml to 0.3 microgram/ml. Further increases in the GBE concentration (up to 3 micrograms/ml) produced a dose-dependent decrease in the DCF fluorescence, suggesting that GBE reduces the content of hydrogen peroxide or suppresses the reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation of cerebellar neurons. The present technique may be useful for preliminary evaluations of agents affecting the ROS formation in mammalian brain neurons. Petkov VD Kehayov R Belcheva S Konstantinova E Petkov VV Getova D Markovska V Memory effects of standardized extracts of Panax ginseng (G115), Ginkgo biloba (GK 501) and their combination Gincosan (PHL-00701). In: Planta Med (1993 Apr) 59(2):106-14 In experiments on young (aged 3 months) and old (aged 26 months) rats, using some conditioned-reflex methods with punishment or positive reinforcement for active and passive avoidance (shuttle-box, step-down, step-through, and water maze), we studied the effects of the standardized extracts of Panax ginseng (G115), Ginkgo biloba (GK501) and their combination Gincosan (PHL-00701). The extracts were administered orally for 7 days before training at three increasing doses: 17, 50, and 150 mg/kg for G115; 10, 30, and 90 mg/kg for GK501; and 27, 80, and 240 mg/kg for PHL-00701. The two extracts and their combination improved the retention of learned behavior. This effect varied considerably with the extracts, with the dose and with the behavioral method used. The results suggest that the Panax ginseng G115 and the Ginkgo biloba GK501 extracts possess properties similar in every respect to those of nootropic drugs. The favorable effects on learning and memory of the combination of G115 plus GK501 and the other pharmacological activities inherent in the extracts characterize this combination, offered as Gincosan as a particularly promising drug in geriatric practice. Pidoux B [Effects of Ginkgo biloba extract on functional brain activity. An assessment of clinical and experimental studies] Effets sur l'activite fonctionnelle cerebrale de l'extrait de Ginkgo biloba. Bilan d'etudes cliniques et experimentales. In: Presse Med (1986 Sep 25) 15(31):1588-91 Electroencephalography is the only convenient method for functional exploration of the brain and recent developments allows for pharmacological studies of electoencephalograms. Using such techniques has confirmed those of clinical trials, and notably the activity of Ginkgo on alertness. Pidoux B., Bastien C., Niddam S.: Clinical and quantitative EEG double-blind study of GBE. In: J. Cerebral Blood Flow Metabolism, 1983, 3, 5556-5557. Pidoux B., Bastien C., Niddam S.: Normalization of electroencephalographic activity in ageing brain by an extract of Ginkgo biloba; In: Bes. A. Braquet P., Paoletti R., Siesjo B.K. Eds., Cerebral Ischemia, Amsterdam, Excerpta Medica, 1984, 385-388. Pietta P Mauri P Rava A Rapid liquid chromatography of terpenes in Ginkgo biloba L. extracts and products. In: J Pharm Biomed Anal (1992 Oct-Dec) 10(10-12):1077-9 Pritz-Hohmeier S Chao TI Krenzlin J Reichenbach A Effect of in vivo application of the ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 (Rokan) on the susceptibility of mammalian retinal cells to proteolytic enzymes. In: Ophthalmic Res (1994) 26(2):80-6 Lesions, inflammations, or degenerative insults of the human retina are accompanied by the release of proteolytic enzymes. Their deleterious effect may be enhanced by the release of free radicals. Ginkgo biloba extracts are known to exert protective influences against the action of free radicals, and this prompted us to ask whether the application of such extracts might protect retinal tissue against proteolytic damage. Eighteen adult rabbits were fed for 3 weeks (+/- 3 days) with 40 mg/kg of G. biloba extract (EGb 761) or a terpene-free fraction of this extract, dissolved in their drinking water. Twelve control rabbits received no G. biloba extract. The animals were then euthanatized and their retinae isolated. After appropriate enzymatic treatment, the tissue was dissociated and the number of isolated Muller cells counted as an indication of the strength of the proteolytic effects. There was a significant protective action of EGb 761: in an average control rabbit 5, 200 cells per milligram retinal tissue were isolated; application of EGb 761 markedly reduced this number to 2, 500 (terpene-free fraction; CP 205) or 3, 050 (terpene-containing fraction). It is concluded that G. biloba extracts may have a significant therapeutic value in cases of retinal damage. Racagni G Brunello N Paoletti R [Neuromediator changes during cerebral aging. The effect of Ginkgo biloba extract] Variations des neuromediateurs lors du vieillissement cerebral. Effet de l'extrait de Ginkgo biloba. In: Presse Med (1986 Sep 25) 15(31):1488-90 Ginkgo biloba extract exerts a specific effect on the noradrenergic system and on beta-receptors. No variation was found in alpha 2- receptors and serotonin uptake. These findings provide the first evidence of central effects of a drug acting on cerebral ageing, connected specifically to reactivation of the noradrenergic system in the cerebral cortex. Ramassamy C Christen Y Clostre F Costentin J The Ginkgo biloba extract, EGb761, increases synaptosomal uptake of 5- hydroxytryptamine: in-vitro and ex-vivo studies. In: J Pharm Pharmacol (1992 Nov) 44(11):943-5 The Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) added to a synaptosomal fraction prepared from mice cerebral cortex modified [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine ([3H]5-HT) uptake in a biphasic manner. Between 4 and 16 micrograms mL-1 EGb 761 increased significantly the [3H]5-HT uptake (maximum + 23%). A similar increase was also obtained when synaptosomes were prepared from the cortex of mice treated orally with EGb 761, either acutely (100 mg kg-1, 14 h and 2 h before death) or semi-chronically (2 x 100 mg-1 kg daily for 4 consecutive days). The in-vitro increase in [3H]5-HT uptake induced by EGb 761 was not observed in the presence of 10(-6) M clomipramine, a 5-HT-uptake inhibitor. EGb 761 did not increase [3H]dopamine uptake by synaptosomes prepared from striatum of mice. We investigated different fractions of EGb 761 in order to determine the compounds inducing the increase in [3H]5-HT uptake. The BN 52063 extract (corresponding to the EGb 761 devoid of flavonoid substances) did not increase [3H]5-HT uptake. The Cp 202 extract (corresponding to the EGb 761 devoid of terpenic substances and containing mostly flavonoid substances) increased [3H]5-HT uptake. Among the flavonoids, quercetin has been tested and had no effect on the [3H]5-HT uptake. Since at the usual therapeutic doses of EGb 761, the effective concentrations of the components responsible for this increase are likely to be reached in the brain, one may suggest that this effect could contribute to the therapeutic effect of EGb 761. Ramassamy C Girbe F Christen Y Costentin J Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 or trolox C prevent the ascorbi acid/Fe2+ induced decrease in synaptosomal membrane fluidity. In: Free Radic Res Commun (1993) 19(5):341-50 The ability of synaptosomes, prepared from striata, to take up 3H- dopamine declined rapidly during incubation at 37 degrees C, in an oxygenated Krebs-Ringer medium with 0.1 mM ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid was responsible for this decrease. Its effectiveness after a 60 min incubation was concentration dependent from 1 microM and virtually complete for 0.1 mM. Furthermore, a decrease of synaptosomal membrane fluidity was revealed by measurements of fluorescence polarization using 1, 6-diphenyl-1, 3, 5-hexatriene. This decrease was potentiated by Fe2+ ions (1 microM). In contrast, it was prevented by the Fe2+ ion chelator, desferrioxamine (0.1 mM), by the Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 [2-16 micrograms/ml], as well as by the flavonoid quercetin (0.1 microM). This preventive effect was shared by trolox C (from 0.1 mM). It is concluded that peroxidation of neuronal membrane lipids induced by ascorbic acid/Fe2+ is associated with a decrease in membrane fluidity which, in turn, reduces the ability of the dopamine transporter to take up dopamine. Ramassamy C Naudin B Christen Y Clostre F Costentin J Prevention by Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) and trolox C of the decrease in synaptosomal dopamine or serotonin uptake following incubation. In: Biochem Pharmacol (1992 Dec 15) 44(12):2395-401 Prolonged incubation of synaptosomes in Krebs-Ringer oxygenated medium in the presence of ascorbic acid (10(-4) M) led, after 20 min, to a decrease in [3H]dopamine (DA) (synaptosomes prepared from the striatum) and [3H]serotonin (5HT) (synaptosomes prepared from the cortex) uptake. The decrease was progressive and uptake was virtually abolished after a 60 min incubation period. A concentration-dependent (from 5 x 10(-6) M) role of ascorbic acid in the decrease of [3H]DA or [3H]5HT uptake was demonstrated. This decrease was potentiated by Fe2+ ions and prevented by the ferrous chelating agent desferrioxamine. Thus, the progressive decrease in synaptosomal uptake of either [3H]DA or [3H]5HT could depend on the generation of free radicals by the association of ascorbic acid with Fe2+ ions. The decrease in synaptosomal uptake was prevented, in a concentration- dependent manner, by the Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 (4-16 micrograms/mL) and the vitamin E analog trolox C (10(-4) M). The terpenic fraction of EGb 761, Bn 52063 (up to 0.5 microgram/mL), did not prevent the reduction of [3H]amine uptake. In contrast, the flavonoidic fraction, Cp 202, was effective (from 1 microgram/mL) and its efficacy was shared by the flavonoid quercetin (from 0.1 microgram/mL). The prolongation of the ability of synaptosomes to take up [3H]amine elicited by EGb 761, in particular its flavonoidic fraction, as well as by trolox C could be due to their free radical scavenger properties. Rodriguez de Turco EB Droy-Lefaix MT Bazan NG Decreased electroconvulsive shock-induced diacylglycerols and free fatty acid accumulation in the rat brain by Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761): selective effect in hippocampus as compared with cerebral cortex. In: J Neurochem (1993 Oct) 61(4):1438-44 The effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) treatment (100 mg/kg/day, per os, for 14 days) on electroconvulsive shock (ECS)- induced accumulation of free fatty acids (FFA) and diacylglycerols (DAG) was analyzed in rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus. EGb 761 reduced the FFA pool size by 33% and increased the DAG pool by 36% in the hippocampus. These endogenous lipids were unaffected in cerebral cortex. During the tonic seizure (10 s after ECS) the fast accumulation of FFA, mainly 20:4, was similar in sham- and EGb 761- treated rats, in both the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. However, further accumulation of free 18:0 and 20:4, observed in the hippocampus of sham-treated rats during clonic seizures (30 s to 2 min after ECS), did not occur in EGb 761-treated animals. The rise in DAG content triggered in the cortex and hippocampus by ECS was delayed by EGb 761 treatment from 10 s to 1 min, when values similar to those in sham animals were attained. Moreover, in the hippocampus the size of the total DAG pool was decreased by 19% during the tonic seizure. At later times, DAG content showed a faster decrease in EGb 761-treated rats. By 2 min levels of all DAG acyl groups decreased to values significantly lower than in sham animals in both cortex and hippocampus. This study shows that EGb 761 treatment affects, with high selectivity, lipid metabolism and lipid-derived second messenger release and removal in the hippocampus, while affecting to a lesser extent the cerebral cortex. Schneider B [Ginkgo biloba extract in peripheral arterial diseases. Meta-analysis of controlled clinical studies] In: Arzneimittelforschung (1992 Apr) 42(4):428-36 (Published in German) In the first part the statistical methods of meta-analysis are discussed. Meta-analysis is considered as a statistical tool for quantitatively summarizing the results of clinical trials with comparable aims (treatments) and designs. Meta-analysis can be based on the significance probabilities or effect values. The last procedure is preferable as it gives an estimate (and confidence interval) for the global effect of the treatment of interest, if homogeneity of the effects between the trials can be assumed. Such a homogeneity can be often achieved by a suitable standardization of the effect variables within the trials. In the second part the methods of meta-analysis are applied to controlled clinical trials with Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 in patients with peripheral arterial disease. Included were 5 placebo-controlled clinical trials with similar design and inclusion criteria. In all studies treatment effect was quantified by the increase of walking distance (measured in standardized treadmill exercise). The effect value of EGb 761 treatment was expressed by the standardized mean difference in walking distance increase between EGb 761 and placebo, standardized by the standard deviation. It could be shown that this effect value is homogeneous in all trials. The global effect size was estimated as 0.75. This means that the mean increase in walking distance achieved by EGb 761 is 0.75 times of the standard deviation higher than that achieved by placebo. This value is highly significant different from zero. So the meta-analysis revealed a highly significant therapeutic effect of EGb 761 for the treatment of peripheral arterial disease. Stange G Benning CD Degenhardt M Ottinger E [Adaptational behaviour of peripheral and central acoustic responses in guinea pigs under the influence of various fractions of an extract from Gingko biloba (author's transl)] In: ARZNEIM FORSCH (1976) 26(3):367-74 Experimental studies on guinea pigs clearly demonstrated the influence of an extract from Ginkgo biloba on the acoustic system. With the Ginkgo biloba extract it is probably possible to diminish sound damages caused by white noise. Steinke B Muller B Wagner H [Biological standardization of Ginkgo extracts] In: Planta Med (1993 Apr) 59(2):155-60 (Published in German) The determination of the inhibition of PAF (platelet-activating factor)-induced platelet aggregation has been proposed as a biological standardization method for commercially available Ginkgo biloba extracts by measuring the characteristic pharmacological effect of ginkgolides in vitro. The determination is specific for ginkgolides A, B, C, and J and is not influenced by other constituents present in Ginkgo biloba extracts. IC50 values of ginkgolide B can be used to standardize various Ginkgo extracts produced by special extraction methods with respect to equi-effective ginkgolide B contents. In order to compare values obtained by a chemical-analytical procedure with those obtained by the biological assay, the equi-effective total ginkgolide content of each Ginkgo extract had to be calculated. Accordingly, the concentrations of the individual ginkgolides in the various Ginkgo extracts were determined chromatographically by assaying ginkgolides as trime-thylsilyl derivatives. Their individual contributions towards the measured in vitro effects were derived from their respective IC50 values. The calculated equi-effective total ginkgolide contents of the Ginkgo extracts were in good agreement with those obtained by gas chromatography. The results demonstrate that, in addition to a chemical standardization, the biological standardization of Ginkgo extract preparations is also feasible. Sticher O Quality of Ginkgo preparations. In: Planta Med (1993 Feb) 59(1):2-11 A survey of known and of recently isolated constituents from Ginkgo leaves is given. The structures of flavonoids and terpene lactones which are considered to be the active compounds as well as their qualitative and quantitative determination in Ginkgo leaves and phytomedicines are presented. In the case of flavonoid analysis three selective methods worked out in our laboratories are described. The quality control of terpene lactones is discussed on the basis of a recently published paper. Finally, the standardization methods used for the quality control of Ginkgo preparations as well as the question as to whether or not phytomedicine generics--so called "phytogenerics"--exist, is discussed. Sticher-O Ginkgo biloba: A modern phytomedicine. In: Vierteljahrsschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Zuerich (1993)138(3): 125-168 Phytomedicines based on extracts from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba are used in the Federal Republic of Germany and in France a rather long time for the treatment of peripheral vascular insufficiency and cerebrovascular insufficiency, and disturbances of cerebral function. In Europe , commercially available preparations based on the special extract EGb 761 have a turnover of about 500 million US dollars. Meanwhile also in Switzerland various Ginkgo preparations are on the market. In this review taxonomy, botany, chemistry, pharmacology and clinical applications as well as quality control of Ginkgo biloba and phytomedicines based on leaf extracts of this plant are described. Research work of the own laboratory dealing with quality control is discussed in detail. Subhan Z., Hindmarch 1.: The psychopharmacological effects of Ginkgo biloba extract in normal healthy volunteers. In: Internat. J. Clin. Pharmacol. Res., 1984, 4, 89-93. Tamborini A Taurelle R [Value of standardized Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) in the management of congestive symptoms of premenstrual syndrome] In: Rev Fr Gynecol Obstet (1993 Jul-Sep) 88(7-9):447-57 (Published in French) The efficacy of standardized Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) in treating congestive symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS) was evaluated in a controlled multicentric double blind study versus placebo. The population studied was a group of 165 women aged between 18 to 45, in genital activity period, suffering since 3 cycles from congestive premenstrual troubles during at least 7 days per cycle. The characteristics of patients and PMS were the same in both groups (EGb 761 and placebo). The observation of one menstrual cycle confirmed the diagnosis of PMS. Then, during the 2 following cycles, each patient received either EGb 761 or placebo from the 16th day of the first cycle till the 5th day of the next cycle. A double evaluation of the symptoms was realized by the patient using a daily rating scale (auto-evaluation), by the practitioner during visits at the premenstrual phase before and after the two cycles treatment. From 165 patients included, 143 observations were available. With a good acceptability, EGb 761 was effective against the congestive symptoms of PMS, particularly breast symptoms with a statistical significance between EGb 761 and placebo. Neuropsychological symptoms were also improved. EGb 761 is an alternative of interest to therapeutics already used in treating PMS or can be associated without any inconvenience. Taylor J.E.: The effects of chronic, oral Ginkgo biloba extract administration on neurotransmitter receptor binding in young and aged Fisher 344 rats. In: Effects of Ginkgo biloba extract on organic cerebral impairment, Paris , London , John Lilley, 1985. Tea S., Celsis P., Clanet M., Marc-Vergnes J.P.: Effets cliniques, hemodyna miques et metaboliques de l'extrait de Ginkgo biloba en pathologie vasculaire cerebrale. In: Gazette Medicale de France, 1979, 86, 4149-4152. Vasseur M Jean T DeFeudis FV Drieu K Effects of repeated treatments with an extract of Ginkgo biloba (EGb 761), bilobalide and ginkgolide B on the electrical activity of pancreatic beta cells of normal or alloxan-diabetic mice: an ex vivo study with intracellular microelectrodes. In: Gen Pharmacol (1994 Jan) 25(1):31-46 1. The effects of repeated (5-day) treatments with an extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves (EGb 761), bilobalide, and ginkgolide B on the in vitro electrical activity of insulin-secreting pancreatic beta cells of mice have been examined using intracellular microelectrodes. 2. EGb 761 (200 mg/kg/day, p.o.) protected beta cells against the toxic effects of alloxan (50 mg/kg, i.v.), an effect characterized by a restoration of membrane potential (Vr) and an increase in spike frequency (Fs/30), an indicator of insulin secretion. 3. Treatment of non-diabetic mice with EGb 761 (200 mg/kg/day, p.o.) increased Fs/30 of their beta cells, as tested by in vitro exposure of the cells to 11.1 mM glucose, an effect that also occurred with bilobalide (8 mg/kg/day, i.p.) but not with ginkgolide B (4 mg/kg/day, i.p.). 4. Since bilobalide and ginkgolide B caused opposite effects on the sensitivity of beta cells to glucose, the stimulatory effect of EGb 761 on Fs/30 may be attributed to its content of bilobalide. 5. In contrast to its ex vivo effect, the direct in vitro effect of EGb 761 (10 and 25 micrograms/ml) on beta cells favors a decrease in electrical activity, indicating that its in vivo action might be indirect (e.g. via the formation of an active metabolite). Volkner JH Inhalations of extracts from Gingko biloba in vasomotor rhinitis and in the bronchitic syndrome In: DTSCH MED J (5 Sep 67) 18(17):527-33 Wada K Sasaki K Miura K Yagi M Kubota Y Matsumoto T Haga M Isolation of bilobalide and ginkgolide A from Ginkgo biloba L. shorten the sleeping time induced in mice by anesthetics. In: Biol Pharm Bull (1993 Feb) 16(2):210-2 The leaves of Ginkgo biloba L. and aqueous extract from them shortened the sleeping time induced in mice by anesthetics (hexobarbital, alpha-chloralose and urethane, i.p.). Two characteristic terpenoids in G. biloba, bilobalide and ginkgolide A, significantly shortened the sleeping time induced by anesthetics. A toxic substance, 4-O-methylpyridoxine (MPN), responsible for "gin-nan food poisoning" isolated from the seed of G. biloba, was not detected from the extract of the leaves of G. biloba. Therefore, the Ginkgo biloba extract has no toxicities for MPN. Warburton DM Ginkgo biloba extract and cognitive decline [letter] In: Br J Clin Pharmacol (1993 Aug) 36(2):137 Warburton DM : Clinical psychopharmacology of Ginkgo biloba extract In: PRESSE MED 1986 Sep 25; 15(31):1595-604 (Published in FRENCH) From this general review of the pharmacological, psychopharmacological and clinical studies performed with Ginkgo biloba extract, the following conclusions can be drawn: the drug seems to be effective in patients with vascular disorders, in all types of dementia and even in patients suffering from cognitive disorders secondary to depression, because of its beneficial effects on mood. Of special concern are people who are just beginning to experience deterioration in their cognitive function. Ginkgo biloba extract might delay deterioration and enable these subject to maintain a normal life and escape institutionalization. In addition, Ginkgo biloba extract appears to be a safe drug, being well tolerated, even in doses many times higher than those usually recommended. Witte S Anadere I Walitza E [Improvement of hemorheology with ginkgo biloba extract. Decreasing a cardiovascular risk factor] In: Fortschr Med (1992 May 10) 110(13):247-50 (Published in German) STUDY DESIGN: Open prospective study. Patients: 20 outpatients with a long history of elevated fibrinogen levels and plasma viscosity, and a variety of underlying diseases. INTERVENTION: Treatment with the special ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761), 240 mg tablets a day for a period of 12 weeks. RESULTS: The clinical diagnoses included coronary heart disease, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes mellitus. A significant improvement in the fibrinogen levels and hemorrheological properties was seen. The medication can thus positively influence these cardiovascular risk factors over the long term. Yabe T Chat M Malherbe E Vidal PP Effects of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) on the guinea pig vestibular system. In: Pharmacol Biochem Behav (1992 Aug) 42(4):595-604 Previous studies have demonstrated that the administration of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) improves the compensation of the vestibular syndrome induced by transection of the VIIIth nerve. To investigate the mechanisms at play, the vestibular nuclei of alert guinea pigs were perfused with EGb 761. This perfusion always induced a stereotyped reversible postural syndrome that was the mirror image of the syndrome provoked by the unilateral lesion of the otolithical receptors. This result supports the hypothesis that EGb 761 has a direct excitatory effect on the lateral vestibular nuclei (LVN) neurons. In a second step, we quantified the horizontal vestibuloocular reflex (HVOR) of the normal guinea pig following IP injection of EGb 761. In normal guinea pig, IP administration of EGb 761 led to a reversible, dose-dependent decrease of the HVOR gain without affecting the phase of the reflex. These data help to explain the therapeutic effects of EGb 761 during vestibular syndromes and strongly suggest an impact at the neuronal level. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus GLYCYRRHIZA GLABRA - LICORICE ROOT Glycyrrhiza glabra, G. uralensis (Licorice root, Gan Cao) - tonic, anti-pyretic, adrenal agent, expectorant, anti-inflammatory, demulcent, anti-spasmodic, mild laxative, fertility, colic, bronchial catarrh, bronchitis, gastritis - chronic, peptic ulcer, adrenocortical insufficiency, Addison's disease; weakness (Qi Xu), sore throat, boils, asthma, blood and energy deficiency; peptic ulcer, empty spleen and stomach, colic acute abdominal pains; sweet, neutral; enters all 12 meridians and organs. The triterpenes of Glycyrrhiza are metabolized in the body to molecules that have a similar structure to the adrenal cortex hormones (vitaligo). This is possibly the basis of the herb's anti-inflammatory action. Liquorice Glycyrrhiza glabra Leguminosae Habitat: Native to the Mediterranean region and parts of Asia , cultivated worldwide. Collection: The roots are unearthed in the late autumn. Clean thoroughly and dry. Part Used: Dried root. Constituents: Triterpenes of the oleanane type, mainly glycyrrhizin (=glycyrrhizic or glycyrrhizinic acid), and its agylcone glycyrrhetinic acid (=glycyrrhitic acid), liquiritic acid, glycyrrhetol, glabrolide, isoglabrolide, licoric acid, & phytosterols. Flavonoids and isoflavonoids; liquiritigenin, liquiritin, rhamnoliquiritin, neoliquiritin, licoflavonol, licoisoflavones A and B, licoisoflavanone, formononetin, glabrol, glabrone, glyzarin, kumatakenin and others. Coumarins; liqcoumarin, umbelliferone, herniarin glycyrin. Chalcones; liquiritigenin, isoliquiritigenin, neosoliquiritin, rhamnoisoliquiritin, licuraside, licochalcones A and B, echinatin and others. Polysaccharides, mainly glucans. Volatile oil, containing fenchone, linalool, furfuryl alcohol, benzaldehyde. Miscellaneous; starch, sugars, amino acid etc. Actions: Expectorant, demulcent, anti-inflammatory, anti-hepatotoxic, anti-spasmodic, mild laxative. Indications: Liquorice is a traditional herbal remedy with an ancient history and world wide usage. Modern research has shown it to have effects upon, amongst other organs, the endocrine system and liver. The triterpenes ofGlycyrrhiza are metabolized in the body to molecules that have a similar structure to the adrenal cortex hormones. This is possibly the basis of the herbs anti-inflammatory action. As an anti-hepatotoxic it can be effective in the treatment of chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis, for which it is been widely used in Japan . Much of the liver orientated research has focused upon the triterpene glycyrrhizin. This inhibits hepatocyte injury caused by carbon tetrachloride, benzene hexachloride and PCB. Antibody production is enhanced by glycyrrhizin, possibly through the production of interleukin. Glycyrrhizin inhibits the growth of several DNA and RNA viruses, inactivating Herpessimplex virus particles irreversibly. It has a wide range of ises in bronchial problems such as catarrh, bronchitis and coughs in general. Liquorice is used in allopathic medicine as a treatment for peptic ulceration, a similar use to its herbal use in gastritis and ulcers. It can be used in the relief of abdominal colic. Kings Dispensatory describes it thus: "Liquorice root is emollient, demulcent and nutritive. It acts upon mucous surfaces, lessening irritation and is consequently useful in coughs, catarrhs, irritation of the urinary organs and pain of the intestines in diarrhea. It is commonly administered in decoction, sometimes alone, at other times with the addition of other agents and which is the preferable mode of using it. As a general rule, the acrid bark should be removed previous to forming a decoction. When boiled for some time the water becomes impregnated with its acrid resin; hence, in preparing a decoction for the purpose of sweetening diet drinks or covering the taste of nauseous drugs, it should not be boiled over 5 minutes. The efficiency of the root in old bronchial affections may be due to this acrid resin. The powdered root is also employed to give the proper solidity to pills and to prevent their adhesion; the extract for imparting the proper viscidity to them. The extract, in the form of lozenge, held in the mouth until it has dissolved, is a very popular and efficient remedy in coughs and pectoral affections. An excellent troche or lozenge, very useful in ordinary cough, may be made by combining together 6 parts of refined Liquorice, 2 parts of benzoic acid, 4 parts of pulverized alum, and 1/2 a part of pulverized opium. Dissolve the Liquorice in water and evaporate to the proper consistence, then add the powders with a few drops of oil of Anise and divide it into 3 or 6-grain lozenges. The bitterness of quinine, quassia, aloes and the acrid taste of senega, guaiacum, mezereon and ammonium chloride are masked by Liquorice." ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus HORDEUM VULGARE - BARLEYGRASS On a per weight basis barley juice is seven times richer in Vitamin C than oranges, five times richer in iron than spinach, ten times richer in calcium than milk, is a significant source of Vitamin B-12. Properly processed barley grass powder allows for effective assimilation of nutrients Barley grass also contains live enzymes. The anti-aging enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD) is one of these. SOD aids in digestion and metabolism by helping to disperse vitamins and minerals into the blood stream to be absorbed by the body. SOD acts as a cellular anti-oxidant, protecting against radiation and chemical free-radicals from pollution, as well as acting as an anti-inflammatory agent and preventing cellular damage following heart attacks. Dr. Richard Cutler, a biophysicist at the National Institute of Aging has shown that the life span of many mammalian species is found to be directly proportional to the amount or SOD contained in the cells. The animals with the longest life spans and man were found to have the highest levels of SOD. Barley Grass has a high alkalizing effect, which helps keep the ratio between acidity and alkalinity in our body fluids balanced. Our cells cannot adequately function if the pH (which measures acidity and alkalinity) is not in a narrow range. Many processed foods are acidic, and when we consume too many of them, the acidity-alkalinity balance can become upset. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus HYDRASTIS CANADENSIS - GOLDEN SEAL ROOT Hydrastis canadensis (Golden Seal root) - tonic, stimulant to involuntary muscle, stomachic, oxytocic, anti-haemorrhagic, laxative; astringent, anti-catarrhal; colitis, gastritis, catarrh., peptic ulcer, colitis, anorexia, upper respiratory, menorrhagia, post-partum haemorrhage, dysmenorrhoea. Ext.: eczema, ringworm. Golden Seal Hydrastis canadensis Ranunculaceae Names : Orange Root, Yellow Root. Habitat : Native to North America , it was used extensively by Native Americans as an herbal medication and clothing dye. Its medicinal use centered around its ability to soothe the mucous membranes of the respiratory, digestive, and genitourinary tracts in inflammatory conditions induced by allergy or infection. It is mostly cultivated. Collection : Unearth root and rhizome from three-year-old plants in the autumn, after the ripening of the seeds. Clean carefully and dry slowly in theair. Part Used : Root and rhizome. Constituents : Isoquinoline alkaloids, mainly hydrastine, berberine, berberastine, canadine, candaline, and hydrastinine. Miscellaneous; fatty acids, resin, polyphenolic acids (anti-aging), meconin, chlorogenic acid, phytosterins and a small amount of volatile oil. Actions : Bitter, hepatic, alterative, anti-catarrhal, anti-microbial, anti-inflammatory, astringent, laxative, expectorant, emmenagogue, oxytocic. Indications : One of our most useful remedies owing much of its value to the tonic effects it has on the mucous membranes of the body. This is why itis of such help in all digestive problems, from peptic ulcers to colitis. Its bitter stimulation helps in loss of appetite, and the alkaloids it contains stimulate bile production and secretion. All catarrhal conditions improve with Golden Seal, especially sinus ones. The anti-microbial properties appear to due to alkaloids present. As an example of research that has been done on plant constituents we shall consider berberine. Berberine, found in a number of other herbs as well, has antibiotic, immuno-stimulatory, antispasmodic, sedative, hypotensive, uterotonic, cholerectic, & carminative activity. Its demonstrable pharmacological activities strongly contribute to the therapeutic use of Hydrastis. Berberine has marked antimicrobial activity, and whilst not in the same league as antibiotics, ithas a broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity. In vitro antimicrobial effects have been demonstrated against bacteria, protozoa, and fungi, including: Staphyloccus spp. Streptoccus spp. Chlamydia spp. Corynebacterium diphtheria Escherichia coli Salmonella typhi Vibrio cholerae Diplococcus pneumonia Pseudomonas spp. Shigella dysenteriae Entamoeba histolytica Trichomonas vaginalis Neisseria gonorrhoeae Neisseria meningitidis Treponema pallidum Giardia lamblia Leishmania donovani Candida albicans. Berberine's action against some of these pathogens is actually stronger than that of antibiotics commonly used, however, please remember that we are dealing with whole plants and not extracted constituents. Berberine'saction in inhibiting Candida, as well as other pathogenic bacteria, prevents the overgrowth of yeast that is a common side effect of antibiotic use. This fascinating alkaloid increases blood supply to the spleen. This improved blood supply may promote optimal activity of the spleen by increasing the release of compounds that potentiate immune response. It has also been shown to activate macrophages in a number of ways. Coupled with its ability to inhibit tumour formation in the laboratory, suggests that berberine possesses some antineoplastic activity. Berberine has been shown in several clinical studies to stimulate the secretion of bile (i.e. it is a cholerectic) and bilirubin. One clinical trial that examined the effect of berberine on 225 patients with chronic cholecystitis. Oral doses of 5 to 20 mg three times a day before meals caused, over a period of 24-48 hours, disappearance of clinical symptoms, decrease inbilirubin level, and an increase in the bile volume of the gallbladder. Berberine corrects the elevated levels of tyramine found in patients with liver cirrhosis. It prevents the elevation of serum tyramine following oral tyrosineload, by inhibiting the enzyme tyrosine decarboxylase found in bacteria in the large intestine. Traditionally Hydrastis canadensis has been used during labour to help contractions, but it is for just this reason that it should be avoided during pregnancy. Applied externally it can be helpful in eczema, ringworm, itching, earache and conjunctivitis. Priest & Priest tell us that it is a "mild, positive, permanently stimulating vaso-tonic with especial influence upon the portal system, entirevenous system and right heart. Tropho-restorative to mucous membranes when irritated, inflamed or ulcerated" They give the following specific indications: catarrhal conditions of mucous membranes, especially gastric. Orifice soreness or discharge, conjunctivitis, keratitis, tonsillitis, pharyngitis, vaginitis, cervicitis. Ellingwood recommends it for the following patholgies : functional disorders of the stomach, catarrhal gastritis, atonic dydpepsia, chronic constipation, hepatic congestion, chronic alcoholism, hepatic congestion, general debility, protracted fevers, cerebral engorgements, prostrating nightsweats, menorrhagia or metrorrhagia due to uterine subinvolution, post-partum haemorrhage, tumours, catarrhal conditions, aphtous ulcers, indolent ulcers, nasalcatarrh, diphtheria, tonsilitis, inflammation of the eyes, leucorrhoea, anal fissure, eczema, gallstones, cholecyctitis, congestive jaundice, goitre, non-malignant mammary tumours. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus ILLICIUM VERUM - STAR ANISE Star anise, star aniseed or Chinese star anise, (Chinese: pinyin: baji a o, lit. "eight-horn") is a spice that closely resembles anise in flavor, obtained from the star-shaped pericarp of Illicium verum, a small native evergreen tree of southwest China . The star shaped fruits are harvested just before ripening. It is widely used in Chinese cuisine, in Indian cuisine where it is a major component of garam masala, and in Indonesian cuisine. It is widely grown for commercial use in China , India , and most other countries in Asia . Star anise is an ingredient of the traditional five-spice powder of Chinese cooking. It is also one of the ingredients used to make the broth for the Vietnamese noodle soup called ph?. It is used as a spice in preperation of Biryani in Andhrapradesh ,a south Indian State . Star anise contains anethole, the same ingredient which gives the unrelated anise its flavor. Recently, star anise has come into use in the West as a less expensive substitute for anise in baking as well as in liquor production, most distinctively in the production of the liquor Galliano. Star anise has been used in a tea as a remedy for colic and rheumatism, and the seeds are sometimes chewed after meals to aid digestion. Although it is produced in most autotrophic organisms, star anise is the industrial source of shikimic acid, a primary ingredient used to create the anti-flu drug Tamiflu. Tamiflu is regarded as the most promising drug to mitigate the severity of bird flu (H5N1); however, reports indicate that some forms of the virus have already adapted to Tamiflu. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus LENTINULA EDODES - SHITAKE MUSHROOM Shitake Mushroom contains 18 amino acids ( 7-8 of which are essential) and over 30 enzymes. Eritadenine is a unique amino acid believed to lower cholesterol. Shitake Mushroom is high in B vitamins, especially B1, B2 and niacin; and in its sun-dried form, it provides vitamin D (found in very few foods). Oriental herbalists have used wild Shitake Mushroom medicinally for many years; Oriental folklore recommends its use for tumours, flu, heart disease, high blood pressure, obesity, sexual dysfunction, and aging. The past two decades have provided well documented clinical studies showing that Shitake Mushroom helps to decrease cholesterol; 3 ounces of shiitake per day can decrease cholesterol by as much as 12% per week. Shitake Mushroom is an enhancer of the immune system, and it may stimulate production of interferon. According to Kisaka Mori, Ph.D., Shitake Mushroom is high in enzymes and vitamins not usually found in plant foods. In studies, extract form has helped to prevent transplanted tumours from taking hold. Possible indications for use of Shitake Mushroom include: heart disease, cancer, AIDS, high cholesterol, gallstones, stomach disorders, ulcers, diabetes, vitamin deficiency, anemia, common cold, allergies, insomnia, and neuromuscular disorders. Lentinula edodes (Shitake mushroom) - anti-tumour properties in laboratory mice. These studies, the earliest dating back to 1969, have also identified the polysaccharide lentinan, a (1-3) ?-D-glucan, as the active compound responsible for the anti-tumour effects. Extracts from shiitake mushrooms have also been researched for many other immunological benefits, ranging from anti-viral properties to possible treatments for severe allergies. Lenthionine, a key flavor compound of shiitake, also inhibits platelet aggregation, so it is a promising treatment for thrombosis. Shiitake, Lentinula edodes - In the wild, this light amber fungus is found on fallen hardwood trees. The caps have nearly ragged gills and an inrolled margin when young, and they are covered with a delicate white flocking. The stem may be central or off center. Indigenous to temperate Asia, they are not found in the wild in the United States but are widely cultivated. A similar species occurs wild in Costa Rica . Medical uses: A vast amount of research into shiitake's medicinal properties has been completed and shows that it has the ability to fight tumours and viruses and enhance the immune system. For more details, refer to the accompanying story. LEM has shown no evidence of acute toxicity in more than seventeen years of use in Japan, even in massive doses (more than 50 mg a day for one week), though mild side effects such as diarrhea and skin rashes have been reported. Likewise, lentinan has no known serious side effects. People with allergies may experience adverse reactions due to its histamine-sensitizing properties. Taking shiitake: The traditional dose is 1 or 2 fresh shiitake mushrooms daily for preventive care or 6 to 16 g of dried shiitake in tea, soup, or other dishes. Commercial preparations (extracts in capsule form) of shiitake are available in the United States in health-food stores but may be expensive. Dried shiitake mushrooms are available in Asian food stores in the United States , usually at more affordable prices. To avert possible digestive upset from eating large quantities of fresh shiitake, LEM, which is concentrated and easily absorbed, is preferred as medicine. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus LINUM USITATISSIMUM - FLAX SEED Flax (also known as common flax or linseed) (binomial name: Linum usitatissimum) is a member of the genus Linum in the family Linaceae. It is native to the region extending from the eastern Mediterranean to India and was probably first domesticated in the Fertile Crescent. It is known as  (Aalas)in Nepali, Agasi/Akshi in Kannada,  (Jawas/Javas) or  (Alashi) in Marathi and  (Tisi) in Hindi and Bengali, in Telugu it is called  (ousahalu). Flax was extensively cultivated in ancient Ethiopia and ancient Egypt.[2] In a prehistoric cave in the Republic of Georgia, dyed flax fibers have been found that date to 30,000 BC. Flax is an erect annual plant growing to 1.2 m (3 ft 11 in) tall, with slender stems. The leaves are glaucous green, slender lanceolate, 2040 mm long and 3 mm broad. The flowers are pure pale blue, 1525 mm diameter, with five petals; they can also be bright red. The fruit is a round, dry capsule 59 mm diameter, containing several glossy brown seeds shaped like an apple pip, 47 mm long. In addition to referring to the plant itself, the word "flax" may refer to the unspun fibers of the flax plant. Flax is grown both for its seeds and for its fibers. Various parts of the plant have been used to make fabric, dye, paper, medicines, fishing nets, hair gels, and soap. Flax seed is the source of linseed oil, which has uses as an edible oil, as a nutritional supplement and as an ingredient in many wood finishing products. It is also grown as an ornamental plant in gardens. The inca also used this to create bowstring. Flax seeds come in two basic varieties: (1) brown; and (2) yellow or golden. Most types have similar nutritional characteristics and equal amounts of short-chain omega-3 fatty acids. The exception is a type of yellow flax called solin (trade name Linola), which has a completely different oil profile and is very low in omega-3 FAs. Although brown flax can be consumed as readily as yellow, and has been for thousands of years, it is better known as an ingredient in paints, fiber and cattle feed. Flax seeds produce a vegetable oil known as flaxseed or linseed oil, which is one of the oldest commercial oils, and solvent-processed flax seed oil has been used for centuries as a drying oil in painting and varnishing.[citation needed] One hundred grams of ground flax seed supplies about 450 kilocalories, 41 grams of fat, 28 grams of fiber, and 20 grams of protein.[5] Flax seed sprouts are edible, with a slightly spicy flavor. Excessive consumption of flax seeds with inadequate water can cause bowel obstruction.[6] Flaxseed is called 'Tisi' in northern India, particularly in the Bihar region.[citation needed] Roasted 'Tisi' is powdered and eaten with boiled rice, a little water, and a little salt since ancient times in the villages.[citation needed] Flax seeds are chemically stable while whole, and milled flax seed can be stored at least 4 months at room temperature with minimal or no changes in taste, smell, or chemical markers of rancidity, which can start with its seed coat becoming bitter. Ground flaxseed can go rancid at room temperature in as little as one week.[7] Even after storage under conditions similar to those found in commercial bakeries, trained sensory panelists could not detect differences between bread made with freshly ground flax and bread made with ground flax stored for 4 months at room temperature.[8] Ground flax is remarkably stable to oxidation when stored for 9 months at room temperature[9] and for 20 months at ambient temperatures under warehouse conditions.[8] Refrigeration and storage in sealed containers will keep ground flax from becoming rancid for a longer period.[citation needed] Nutrients and clinical research Flax seeds contain high levels of dietary fiber including lignans, an abundance of micronutrients and omega-3 fatty acids (table). Flax seeds may lower cholesterol levels, especially in women.[10] Initial studies suggest that flax seeds taken in the diet may benefit individuals with certain types of breast[11][12] and prostate cancers.[13] A study done at Duke suggests that flaxseed may stunt the growth of prostate tumors,[13] although a meta-analysis found the evidence on this point to be inconclusive.[14] Flax may also lessen the severity of diabetes by stabilizing blood-sugar levels.[15] There is some support for the use of flax seed as a laxative due to its dietary fiber content[6] though excessive consumption without liquid can result in intestinal blockage.[16] Consuming large amounts of flax seed may impair the effectiveness of certain oral medications, due to its fiber content,[16] and may have adverse effects due to its content of neurotoxic cyanogen glycosides and immunosuppressive cyclic nonapeptides. MEDICAGO SATIVA - ALFALFA Highly nutritious. Reduces cholesterol Onions and garlic counteract increased platelet aggregation. Garlic lowers total serum cholesterol and triglycerides significantly, while increasing HDL levels. Alafalfa decreases cholesterol levels and has a shrinkage effect on atherosclerotic plaque. Serving Size: 1 Cup (33 grams) Grams Calories % Daily Value Calories 8 0% Fat - - - Saturated - - - Trans - Carbohydrates 1 4 0% Dietary Fiber 1 Sugars - Protein 1 4 1% Nutrition Facts Serving Size: 1 Cup (33 grams) Amount Per Serving Calories 8 Calories from Fat % Daily Value* Total Fat 0g Saturated Fat 0g Trans Fat 0g Cholesterol 0mg 0% Sodium 2mg 0% Total Carbohydrates 1g 0% Dietary Fiber 1g 4% Sugars 0g 0% Protein 1g 1% Vitamin A 1% Vitamin C 4% Calcium 1% Iron 2% *Daily Values are based upon a 2000 calorie diet. Login to see these reflect your personalized calorie intake values. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus MENTHA PIPERITA - PEPPERMINT HERB Mentha piperita (Peppermint herb) - carminative, anti-spasmodic, aromatic, diaphoretic, anti-emetic, nervine, anti-septic, analgesic; intestinal colic, flatulent dyspepsia, nausea, morning sickness, travel sickness, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, fever, colds, flu, nasal catarrh, migraine headache, nervine, dysmenorrhoea. Mentha piperita Part Used: Aerial parts. Constituents: The whole complex of primary plant constituents and acharacteristic array of secondary plant constituents are present.Pharmacologically important constituents include an essential oil containingmenthol, menthone and menthyl acetate as the major components, flavonoids. Actions: Carminative, anti-inflammatory, anti-spasmodic, aromatic,diaphoretic, anti-emetic, nervine, anti-microbial, analgesic. Indications: Peppermint is an excellent carminative, having a relaxingeffect on the muscles of the digestive system, combats flatulence andstimulates bile and digestive juice flow. It is used to relieve intestinalcolic, flatulent dyspepsia and associated conditions. The volatileoil acts as a mild anaesthetic to the stomach wall, which allays feelings ofnausea and the desire to vomit. It helps to relieve thenausea & vomiting of pregnancy and travel sickness.Peppermint can play a role in the treatment of ulcerative conditions of thebowels. It is a traditional treatment of fevers, colds andinfluenza. As an inhalant it is used as temporary relief for nasalcatarrh. Where headaches are associated with digestion, Peppermint may help. As a nervine it eases anxiety and tension. In painfulperiods, it relieves the pain and eases associated tension. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus MUCUNA PRURIENS - KAPIKACHU The plant is an annual, climbing shrub with long vines that can reach over 15 m in length. When the plant is young, it is almost completely covered with fuzzy hairs, but when older, it is almost completely free of hairs. The leaves are tripinnate, ovate, reverse ovate, rhombus shaped or widely ovate. The sides of the leaves are often heavily grooved and the tips are pointy. In young Mucuna pruriens plants, both sides of the leaves have hairs. The stems of the leaflets are two to three millimeters long. Additional adjacent leaves are present and are about 5 mm long. The flower heads take the form of axially arrayed panicles. They are 15 to 32 cm long and have two to three, or many flowers. The accompanying leaves are about 12.5 mm long, the flower stand axes are from 2.5 to 5 mm. The bell is 7.5 to 9 mm long and silky. The sepals are longer or of the same length as the shuttles. The crown is purplish or white. The flag is 1.5 mm long. The wings are 2.5 to 3.8 cm long. In the fruit ripening stage, a 4 to 13 cm long, 1 to 2 cm wide, unwinged leguminous fruit develops. There is a ridge along the length of the fruit. The husk is very hairy and carries up to seven seeds. The seeds are flattened uniform ellipsoid, 1 to 1.9 cm long, 0.8 to 1.3 cm wide and 4 to 6.5 cm thick. The hilum, the base of the funiculus (connection between placenta and plant seeds) is a surrounded by a significant arillus (fleshy seeds shell). Mucuna pruriens bears white, lavender, or purple flowers. Its seed pods are about 10 cm long[1] and are covered in loose orange hairs that cause a severe itch if they come in contact with skin. The chemical compounds responsible for the itch are a protein, mucunain,[1] and serotonin. The seeds are shiny black or brown drift seeds. It is found in tropical Africa, India and the Caribbean. The dry weight of the seeds is 55 to 85 g/100 seeds. The number of chromosomes in the plant cells is 2n = 20, 22 or 24. USES: In many parts of the world Mucuna pruriens is used as an important forage, fallow and green manure crop.[3] Since the plant is in the legume family (peas and beans), it, with the help of nitrogen fixing bacteria, takes nitrogen gas from the air and combines it with other chemical compounds producing fertilizer and improving the soil. Mucuna pruriens is a widespread fodder plant in the tropics. To that end, the whole plant is fed to animals as silage, dried hay or dried seeds. Mucuna pruriens silage contains 11-23% crude protein, 35-40% crude fiber, and the dried beans 20-35% crude protein. Mucuna pruriens is sometimes used as a coffee substitute called "Nescafe" (not to be confused with the commercial brand Nescaf). Cooked fresh shoots or beans can also be eaten. This requires that they be soaked from at least 30 minutes to 48 hours in advance of cooking, or the water changed up to several times during cooking, since otherwise the plant can be toxic to humans. The above described process leaches out chemical compounds such as levodopa, making the product suitable for consumption. If consumed in large quantities as food, unprocessed Mucuna pruriens is toxic to nonruminant mammals including humans. In history, M. pruriens has been used as an effective aphrodisiac. It is still used to increase libido in both men and women due to its dopamine inducing properties. Dopamine has a profound influence on sexual function. Mucuna pruriens seeds have also been found to have antidepressant properties in cases of depressive neurosis when consumed. Dried leaves of Mucuna pruriens are sometimes smoked. Mucuna pruriens has also recently become popular among lucid dreaming enthusiasts: when combined with other supplements that stimulate the cholinergic system, the dopamine presumably produced from the consumption of Mucuna pruriens confers upon the lucid dreamer greater motivation and confidence. The hairs lining the seed pods contain 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) which causes severe itching (pruritus). The hairs on the outside of the pods of Mucuna pruriens are a common ingredient in itching powder.[11] Use of Mucuna pruriens is documented in Siddha medicine for a number of uses, including improving sexual function. Mucuna pruriens is used in the countries of Benin and Vietnam as a biological control for problematic Imperata cylindrica grass.[3] Mucuna pruriens is said to not be invasive outside its cultivated area. Mucuna pruriens seeds contain high concentrations of levodopa, a direct precursor of the neurotransmitter dopamine. It has long been used in traditional Ayurvedic Indian medicine for diseases including Parkinson's Disease.] In large amounts (e.g. 30 g dose) it has been shown to be as effective as pure levodopa/carbidopa in the treatment of Parkinson's Disease, but no data on long-term efficacy and tolerability is available. In addition to levodopa, Mucuna also contains serotonin (5-HT), 5-HTP, nicotine, N,N-DMT (DMT), bufotenine, and 5-MeO-DMT. As such, it could potentially have psychedelic effects, and it has purportedly been used in ayahuasca preparations. The mature seeds of the plant contain about 3.1-6.1% L-DOPA,[9] with trace amounts of 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), nicotine, DMT-n-oxide, bufotenine, 5-MeO-DMT-n-oxide, and beta-carboline.[18] One study using 36 samples of the seeds found no tryptamines present in them. The leaves contain about 0.5% L-DOPA, 0.006% dimethyltryptamine (DMT), 0.0025% 5-MeO-DMT and 0.003% DMT n-oxide. The Mucuna pruriens is also known as velvet bean, cowhage, cowitch, yerepa. It originates in trapical forest. It has been found to be  a very effective nervine-tonic and aphrodisiac, especially men.  Mucuna  is also used as a dietary supplement and it will help the deposition of protein to strengthen muscles and prevent muscle wasting. It is known  to restore mental alertness and to improve coordination. In summary: Mucuna  can improve libido; it helps the nervous system reach optimum performance; it regulates the sex hormones; it protects muscle mass and strength; it enhances mental functioning PANAX GINSENG  KOREAN GINSENG ROOT The main active components of Panax ginseng are ginsenosides, which have been shown to have a variety of beneficial effects, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anticancer effects. Results of clinical research studies demonstrate that Panax ginseng may improve psychologic function, immune function, and conditions associated with diabetes. Overall, Panax ginseng appears to be well tolerated, although caution is advised about concomitant use with some pharmaceuticals, such as warfarin, oral hypoglycemic agents, insulin, and phenelzine. Panax ginseng does not appear to enhance physical performance. Products with a standardized ginsenoside concentration are available. (Am Fam Physician 2003;68:1539-42. Copyright 2003 American Academy of Family Physicians .) Herbal remedies known as "ginseng" are based on the roots of several distinct species of plants, mainly Korean or Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng), Siberian ginseng (Eleutherococcus senticosus), and American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius). All of these species are in the Araliaceae plant family, but each has its own specific effects on the body. See page 1461 for definitions of strength-of-evidence levels. Ginseng products are popularly referred to as "tonics," a term that has been replaced by "adaptogens" in much of the alternative medicine literature. The term "adaptogen" connotes an agent that purportedly "increases resistance to physical, chemical, and biological stress and builds up general vitality, including the physical and mental capacity for work." 1(p236) Over-the-counter Panax ginseng products include Celestial Seasonings Ginseng, Centrum Herbals Ginseng, Korean Ginseng Extract from Nature's Way, Nature Made's Chinese Red Panax Ginseng, Pharmaton's Ginsana, and PhytoPharmica's Ginseng Phytosome. Panax ginseng is one of the most commonly used and highly researched species of ginseng. This species, which is native to China, Korea, and Russia, has been an important herbal remedy in traditional Chinese medicine for thousands of years, where it has been used primarily as a treatment for weakness and fatigue. 2 Pharmacology The main active agents in Panax ginseng are ginsenosides, which are triterpene saponins. The majority of published research on the medicinal activity of Panax ginseng has focused on ginsenosides. 3 These are the compounds to which some ginseng products are now standardized. Research reviews 2,4 postulate that extracts of Panax ginseng affect the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis and the immune system, which could account for many of the documented effects. Animal models and in vitro studies mentioned in these reviews 2,4 indicate that Panax ginseng enhances phagocytosis, natural killer cell activity, and the production of interferon; improves physical and mental performance in mice and rats; causes vasodilation; increases resistance to exogenous stress factors; and affects hypoglycemic activity. Efficacy Panax ginseng is used primarily to improve psychologic function, exercise performance, immune function, and conditions associated with diabetes (Table 1) . Traditional Chinese medicine and many current research studies 5-8 often use products that combine ginseng with other herbal medicines or vitamins. Because of the use of combination products and the limitations of some studies on ginseng (e.g., poor methodologic quality, research focusing on healthy volunteers, small sample size, unstandardized ginseng preparations, varying doses), it is difficult to draw conclusions about some of the clinical effects of ginseng. Many research trials have been performed on the standardized Panax ginseng extract Ginsana (G115). Key Points About Panax ginseng Efficacy Psychologic functioning: effective; conflicting evidence Physical performance: ineffective Immune system: effective Diabetes: modest effect; evidence limited Adverse effects Nausea, diarrhea, euphoria, insomnia, headaches, hypertension, hypotension, mastalgia, vaginal bleeding, blood pressure abnormalities Dry root (tea form or chewed): 0.5 to 2 g per day A safe, well-tolerated herbal medicine that may be used for a variety of medical conditions EFFECTS ON PSYCHOLOGIC FUNCTION Trials investigating the effects of Panax ginseng on various psychologic parameters have shown positive effects, no effects, or both. In one study 9 of 112 healthy volunteers older than 40 years, the administration of 400 mg per day of the standardized ginseng product Gerimax for eight weeks resulted in better and faster simple reactions and abstract thinking, but no change in concentration, memory, or subjective experience. The results of two small studies, 10,11 each including about 30 young, healthy volunteers who received 200 mg of G115 daily for eight weeks, showed improvement in certain psychomotor functions (i.e., better attention, processing, and auditory reaction time), social functioning, and mental health. However, some of the effects present at the fourth week disappeared by the eighth week. 11 A study of 384 postmenopausal women who were randomized to receive placebo or ginseng for 16 weeks showed improvements in three subsets of a Psychological General Well-Being index. 12 [Evidence level A, randomized controlled trial (RCT)] In addition, a small study 7 of 20 healthy young volunteers who received a single 400-mg dose of ginseng found improvement in cognitive performance, secondary memory performance, speed of performing memory tasks, and accuracy of attentional tasks. However, another study 13 showed no effect on positive affect, negative affect, or total mood disturbance in 83 young healthy volunteers who took 200 to 400 mg per day of G115 for eight weeks. EFFECTS ON PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE Most of the clinical studies investigating the value of Panax ginseng in enhancing physical performance have shown no clinical effect. 14 One study 15 on the use of 200 mg per day of G115 in 19 healthy adult women showed no change in physical work performance, energy metabolic responses, or oxygen uptake. Similarly, a study of 31 healthy men who took 200 or 400 mg of G115 daily for eight weeks found no change in physiologic or psychologic responses to submaximal or maximal exercise. 16 [Evidence level B, lower quality RCT] In another study, 17 a different product standardized to 7 percent ginsenosides and administered at 200 mg per day was given to 28 healthy young adults for 21 days. No ergogenic effects were demonstrated, including no change in maximal oxygen consumption, exercise time, workload, plasma lactate level, hematocrit, or heart rate. EFFECTS ON IMMUNE SYSTEM A study 18 of 227 healthy volunteers demonstrated that daily administration of 100 mg of G115 for 12 weeks enhanced the efficacy of polyvalent influenza vaccine. The patients who received ginseng had a lower incidence of influenza and colds, higher antibody titers, and higher natural killer cell activity levels. Another study 19 in 60 healthy volunteers showed enhanced chemotaxis, phagocytosis, increased total lymphocyte count, and increased numbers of T helper cells in those who received G115 in a dosage of 100 mg twice daily for eight weeks. In a study of 75 patients with acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis who were treated with antibiotics or antibiotics plus ginseng, those in the ginseng group showed faster bacterial clearance. 20 EFFECTS ON DIABETES The effects of Panax ginseng, given in a dosage of 100 or 200 mg per day for eight weeks, were studied in 36 patients with newly diagnosed non-insulin-dependent diabetes. 21 The study showed improved fasting blood glucose levels, elevated mood, and improved psychophysical performance on a numbered diagram test. The 200-mg dose also resulted in improved hemoglobin A 1C values. ADDITIONAL USES In 45 patients with erectile dysfunction, use of ginseng improved erectile function, sexual desire, and intercourse satisfaction. 22 Panax ginseng also appears to have anti-cancer effects. In a prospective cohort study 23 of 4,364 persons older than 40 years, the risk of cancer was shown to be lower in those who used ginseng (relative risk: 0.40). With thanks to DAVID KIEFER, M.D., and TRACI PANTUSO, B.S. University of Arizona College of Medicine , Tucson , Arizona ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus PAULINIA CUPANA  GUARANA Guarana. Botanical: Paullinia Cupana, Kunth. (H. B. and K.) Family: N.O. Sapindaceae Synonyms: Paullinia. Guarana Bread. Brazilian Cocoa . Uabano. Uaranzeiro. Paullinia Sorbilis. Part Used: Prepared seeds, crushed. Habitat: Brazil , Uruguay . - NOTE: Dr Earle Sweet, Sayfer Botanicals, points out that this is incorrect, Guarana does NOT grow in Uruguay . - 12/16/96 Description---This climbing shrub took the name of its genus from C. F. Paullini, a German medical botanist who died 1712. It has divided compound leaves, flowers yellow panicles, fruit pear shaped, three sided, three-celled capsules, with thin partitions, in each a seed like a small horse-chestnut half enclosed in an aril, flesh coloured and easily separated when dried. The seeds of Paullinia Sorbilis are often used or mixed with those of P. Cupana. Guarana is only made by the Guaranis, a tribe of South American Indians. (Note: Marcos Garcia, Embrapa-CPAA, Manaus Amazonas , Brazil , also points out "The origin habitat of Guarana is the Amazon Region. But actually it is cultivated in others locations at Southest of Brazil ." After the seeds are shelled and washed they are roasted for six hours, then put into sacks and shaken till their outside shell comes off, they are then pounded into a fine powder and made into a dough with water, and rolled into cylindrical pieces 8 inches long; these are then dried in the sun or over a slow fire, till they became very hard and are then a rough and reddish-brown colour, marbled with the seeds and testa in the mass. They break with an irregular fracture, have little smell, taste astringent, and bitter like chocolate without its oiliness, and in colour like chocolate powder; it swells up and partially dissolves in water. Constituents - A crystallizable principle, called guaranine, similar to caffeine, which exists in the seeds, united with tannic acid, catechutannic acid starch, and a greenish fixed oil. Medicinal Action and Uses - Nervine, tonic, stimulant, aphrodisiac, febrifuge. A beverage is made from the guaran sticks, by grating half a tablespoonful into sugar and water and drinking it like tea. The Brazilian miners drink this constantly and believe it to be a preventive of many diseases, as well as a most refreshing beverage. Their habit in travelling is to carry the stick or a lump of it in their pockets, with a palate bone or scale of a large fish with which to grate it. P. cupana is also a favourite national diet drink, the seeds are mixed with Cassava and water, and left to ferment until almost putrid, and in this state it is the favourite drink of the Orinoco Indians. From the tannin it contains it is useful for mild forms of leucorrhoea, diarrhoea, etc., but its chief use in Europe and America is for headache, especially if of a rheumatic nature. It is a gentle excitant and serviceable where the brain is irritated or depressed by mental exertion, or where there is fatigue or exhaustion from hot weather. Its benefit is for nervous headache or the distress that accompanies menstruation, or exhaustion following dissipation. It is used by the Indians for bowel complaints. Guarana is used and well known for its stimulant and thermogenic action. In America today, Guarana is reputed to increase mental alertness and fight fatigue (4) and also to increase stamina and physical endurance.(5) Presently guarana is taken daily as a health tonic by millions of Brazilians who believe it helps overcome heat fatigue, combats premature aging, detoxifies the blood and useful for flatulence, obesity, dyspepsia, fatigue and for arteriosclerosis.(6) In body care products, Guarana has been used for its tonifying and astringent properties. It has been used in the treatment of cellulite due to its lipolytic and vasodilation action. Guarana has been used as an ingredient in shampoos for oily hair and as a coadjutant in hair loss treatments. In addition to other chemicals, the guaran plant contains caffeine' (called "guaranine"), theophylline, and theobromine. Water extracts of the guarana plant are central nervous system stimulants due to the guaranine content. Energy drink manufacturers typically add synthetic caffeine or caffeine derived from coffee decaffeination, and not the gentler guaranine. Brazil produces several brands of soft drink from guaran extract that contain no added caffeine. Each differs greatly in flavour; some with very little natural guarana fruit taste. In Brazil , sales of guarana drinks are even greater than that of cola drinks. They are typically fizzy and sweet, with a very fruity aftertaste. Most guaran drinks are produced in Brazil and consumed there or in nearby countries, such as Paraguay . Major brands include Guaran Antarctica, Guaran Schin from Schincariol and Guaran Brahma from AmBev, Kuat, and Guaran Jesus, a local Brazilian brand named for the druggist that formulated it.[1] Many local producers also create drinks not for export. It is used in weight loss and as a general health supplement. Studies involving guaran show benefits to cognitive function. [2] They have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar government agencies. In the United States , guaran holds a GRAS-status, i.e. generally regarded as safe and must be labeled as not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. The Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics published a study in June 2001 showing an average 11.2 pound weight loss in a group taking a mixture of yerba mate, guaran and damiana, compared to an average 1 pound loss in a placebo group after 45 days.[3] A university study in Brazil of guaran extract showed a platelet aggregation decrease of up to 37% of control values and a decrease of platelet thromboxane formation from arachidonic acid of up to 78% of control values. [4] This study may be significant to stroke and heart attack risk reduction because when excess thromboxane formation occurs, an arterial blood clot can develop, resulting in a heart attack or ischemic stroke.[5] A separate 1997 study of guaran's effects on the physical activity of rats showed increased memory retention and physical endurance when compared with a placebo.[6] Other studies have shown antioxidant, antibacterial, and fat cell reduction (when combined with conjugated linoleic acid) properties in guaran [7] Although side-effects of guaran are rare, drugs.com recommends, "When considering the use of herbal supplements, consultation with a primary health care professional is advisable. Additionally, consultation with a practitioner trained in the uses of herbal/health supplements may be beneficial, and coordination of treatment among all health care providers involved may be advantageous". Drugs.com also advises not to mix guaran with ephedrine.[8] Composition: Guaran seeds consist of mostly reddish vegetable fiber and resin with a small amount of oil and water. Chemicals in: Paullinia cupana (alphabetical order, concentration given*) Adenine seed: Duke1992a Ash seed 14,200 ppm; Duke1992a Caffeine seed 25,000 - 76,000 ppm Duke1992a Catechutannic-acid seed: Duke1992a Choline seed: Duke1992a D-catechin seed: Duke1992a Fat seed 30,000 ppm; Duke1992a Guanine seed: Duke1992a Guaranine seed: Duke1992a Hypoxanthine seed: Duke1992a Mucilage seed: Duke1992a Protein seed 98,600 ppm; Duke1992a Resin seed 70,000 ppm; Duke1992a Saponin seed: Duke1992a Starch seed 50,000 - 60,000 ppm Duke1992a Tannin seed 85,000 - 120,000 ppm Duke1992a Theobromine seed 330 ppm; Duke1992a Theophylline seed 570 ppm; Duke1992a Timbonine seed: Duke1992a Xanthine seed: Duke1992a Duke1992a: Duke, James A. 1992. Handbook of phytochemical constituents of GRAS herbs and other economic plants. Boca Raton , FL. CRC Press. (*) ppm = parts per million tr = trace Guarana contains different amounts, i.e., either less or more of the stimulants theobromine and theophylline and other alkaloids, than other caffeine sources. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus PFAFFIA PANICULATA  SUMA ROOT Pfaffia paniculata (Suma root) - nerve and glandular restorative, anti-tumour, anti-melanoma. Adaptogen - to achieve more perfect endocrine balance. Used to strengthen the immune system against the progress of malignancy. Restorative after illness (convalescence). Infertility. Menopausal and menstrual symptoms. To minimise the side-effects of the Pill. Do not use in pregnancy. To restore acid-alkali balance, thus facilitating blood-flow to cells and neutralising toxins. Osteomyelitis, high blood uric acid (arthritis, gout), PMT, high blood cholesterol. Rich source of vitamins and mineral nutrients. Contains Germanium. Keynote: hormonal balance. (Bartram) Family: Amaranthaceae Genus: Pfaffia Species: paniculata Common Names: Suma, Brazilian Ginseng, Pfaffia, Para Toda, Corango-acu Part Used: Root DESCRIPTION Properties/Actions: Anabolic, Analgesic, Anti-inflammatory, Antimutagenic, Aphrodisiac, Estrogenic, Hypocholesterolemic, Immunostimulant, Nutritive, Sedative, Steroidal, Tonic Phytochemicals: Beta-ecdysone, Nortriterpenoid Pfaffic Acids, Sitosterol, Stigmasterol, Iron, Magnesium, Cobalt, Silica, Zinc, Vitamins A, B-1, B-2, E, K, Pantothenic Acid, Germanium, Saponins Suma is a large, scrambling, shrubby ground vine which has an intricate and deep root system. It is indigenous to the Amazon basin area and other tropical parts of Brazil, Ecuador, Panama, Paraguay Peru and Venezuela.(1, 2) Since it first botanical recording in 1826, it has been referred to by several botanical names including Pfaffia paniculata, Hebanthe paniculata and Gomphrena paniculata.(3) The genus Pfaffia is well known in Central and South America with over 50 species of Pfaffia growing in the warmer tropical regions of the area.(4) In South America, Suma is known as Para Toda which means "for all things" (panacea) and as Brazilian Ginseng since it is widely used as an adaptogen for many things, much like regular ginseng. The indigenous peoples of the Amazon region who named it Para Toda, have used the root of Suma for generations for a wide variety of things including a general tonic, energy and rejuvenating tonic as well as a general cure-all for many types of illnesses.(5) Suma has been used as a tonic, an aphrodisiac, a calming agent and to treat ulcers for at least 300 years, and is an important herbal remedy in the folk medicine of several indigenous Indian tribes today.(6, 7) In herbal medicine throughout the world today Suma is considered an adaptogen. The word adaptogen was coined in 1947 by a Russian scientist named N.V. Lazarev. His definition of the word was a medicinal substance fulfilling three criteria: a.) It must cause only minimal disorders in the body's physiological functions; b.) It must increase the body's resistance to adverse influences not by specific action but by a wide range of physical, chemical, and biochemical factors; and c.) It must have an overall normalizing effect, improving all kinds of conditions and aggravating none. Suma, with its wide range of documented uses, certainly meets these criteria. In herbal medicine in Ecuador today, Suma is considered a tonic for the cardiovascular system, the central nervous system, the reproductive system, and the digestive system and is used to treat hormonal disorders, sexual dysfunction and sterility, arteriosclerosis, diabetes, circulatory and digestive disorders, rheumatism, and bronchitis.(8) In European herbal medicine Suma is used as to restore nerve and glandular functions, to balance the endocrine system, to strengthen the immune system, for infertility, menopausal and menstrual symptoms, to minimize the side-effect of birth control medications, for high cholesterol, to neutralize toxins and as a general restorative tonic after illness.(9) In North and South American herbal medicine Suma root is used as an adaptogenic and regenerative tonic regulating many systems of the body, as an immunostimulant, and is used to treat exhaustion resulting from Epstein-Barr disease and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, hypoglycemia, impotency, arthritis, anemia, diabetes, cancer, tumours, mononucleosis, high blood pressure, PMS, menopause and hormonal disorders and many types of stress.(10 - 15) Suma has also been called "The Russian Secret" because it is taken by Russian Olympic athletes to increase muscle-building and endurance without the side effects associated with steroids.(15) This action is attributed to the anabolic agent, beta-ecdysterone as well as three novel ecdysteroid glycosides which are found in high amounts in Suma.(16, 17) Suma is such a rich source of beta-ecdysterone, that it is the subject of a Japanese patent for the extraction methods employed to obtain it from this root.(18) Two other plant hormones found in Suma, sitosterol and stigmasterol, encourage estrogen production and accounts for it's use for menopausal symptoms.(15) Nutritionally, Suma root contains 19 different amino acids, a large number of electrolytes and trace minerals including iron, magnesium, cobalt, silica, zinc and the vitamins A, B-1, B-2, E, K, and pantothenic acid.(17) The high content of germanium accounts for its properties as an oxygenator at the cellular level. The root of Suma is composed of up to 11% saponins.(19) These saponins include a group of novel chemicals called Pfaffosides as well as Pfaffic acids, glycosides and nortriperpenes. These saponins have clinically demonstrated the ability to inhibit cultured tumour cell melanomas and help to regulate blood sugar levels.(20 - 23) The pfaffosides and pfaffic acid derivatives in Suma have been patented as antitumour compounds in two Japanese patents.(24, 25) ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus PLANTAGO PSYLLIUM - PSYLLIUM SEED It action on the body: demulcent, gentle laxative. Specific: IBS and mucus colitis, chronic diarrhoea, detoxifier. Psyllium is a bulk-forming laxative and is high in both fiber and mucilage. Psyllium seeds contain 1030% mucilage. The laxative properties of psyllium are due to the swelling of the husk when it comes in contact with water; the seeds swell with toxins in the bowel. This forms a gelatinous mass that keeps feces hydrated and soft, provided it is taken with sufficient water. The resulting bulk stimulates a reflex contraction of the walls of the bowel, followed by emptying. Psyllium is a common ingredient in over-the-counter bulk laxative products. One preliminary trial found that psyllium seeds relieved constipation when it was due to lifestyle factors (e.g., inadequate fiber, sedentary lifestyle), but not when an actual disease was the cause.2 Numerous double-blind trials have found that supplementation with psyllium can lower total cholesterol and LDL (bad) cholesterol.3 However, levels of HDL (good) cholesterol are not affected by psyllium supplementation.4 The cholesterol-lowering effect of psyllium has been reported in children,5 as well as in adults.6 Psyllium supplementation has also improved blood sugar levels in some people with diabetes.7 8 9 The soluble fiber component of psyllium is believed to account for this effect. In a double-blind trial, people with ulcerative colitis had a reduction in symptoms such as bleeding and remained in remission longer when they took 20 grams of ground psyllium seeds twice daily with water compared to the use of the medication mesalamine alone.10 Also, the combination of the two was slightly more effective than either alone. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus PROPOLIS - PROPOLIS RESIN Antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, anti-fungal, antioxidant and antiviral. 180 microelements. Principal compounds in Propolis: Resins 45-55% Waxes and fatty acids 25-35% Essential oils 10% Pollen 5% Other organics and minerals 5% The resins contain the majority of the flavonoids  as many as 40  found in Propolis along with a number of phenols and acids. Propolis contains particularly high quantities of a large range of flavonoids and that have attracted most attention from researchers seeking the so-called actives' in Propolis. Galangin and pinocembrin are thought to be the most important flavonoids. Flavonoid content in Propolis can range from 10-20% and from the largest single biochemical group within Propolis. There is a major difference between the flavonoids found in plants and those found in Propolis. Those found in Propolis are not glycosides, that is. They do not have sugars attached their biochemical structure as those found in plants do. The difference may well be due to the way the bee process these flavoinoids through the secretion of enzymes. The fact is, they are changed, and this may well explain some of the unique therapeutic qualities of Propolis. 16 amino acids present in Propolis at more than 1%. Of the total amino acids present, arginine and proline together made of 45.8%. A further 8 amino acids were present in traces. Propolis stimulates tissue regeneration is due to the presence of arginine because of its role in stimulating the production of nucleic acid. Around 14 mineral trace elements are found in Propolis, of which iron and zinc are the most common. Other minerals found include gold, silver, caesium, mercury, and lead. Propolis clears lead from the body by attracting it to itself. Organic compounds include ketones, lactones, quinones, steroids, benzoic acid and esters, vitamins and sugars. With thanks to James Fearnley, 2001. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus RHEUM PALMATUM - RHUBARB ROOT Part Used: Rhizome of Rheum palmatum and other species (not to be confused with the garden rhubarb). Constituents: Anthraquinone derivatives such as chrysophanic acid (=chrysophanol), emodin, aloe-emodin, rhein & physcion, with their O-glycosides such asglucorhein, chrysophanein, glucoemodin; sennosides A-E, reidin C &others. Tannins; in Chinese Rhubarb: d-catechin and epicatechin gallate (this constituent is an important polyphenolic compound also found in green tea that exert anti-mutagenic anti-proliferative, and anti-neoplastic poperties and also found to be important in anti-aging (see ageless tonic ); it neutralizes free radicals and prevents cell damage; it stimulates detoxification through selective induction and modification of phase I and phase II metabolic enzymes (see Zhang,G., Muira,Y., et al (2000) Induction of apoptosis and cell arrest in cancer cells by in vivo metabolites of teas. Nutr Cancer 38(2):265-273 .) , with various cinnamoyl and coumaroyl golloyl glucosides and fructoses. Stilbene derivatives; related stilbene glycosides present in othertypes Miscellaneous; volatile oil, containing diisobutyl phthalate, cinnamicand ferulic acids; rutin, fatty acids, calcium oxalate etc Actions: Bitter, laxative, astringent. Purgative, to eliminate pathogenic heat, to invigorate blood circulation and eliminate stasis, to treat jaundice, detoxification; fever with constipation and abdominal fullness, haematemesis and epistaxis associated with excessive heat in the blood, dysmenorrhoea and amenorrhoea, acute jaundice, acute appendicitis, intestinal obstruction; intestinal parasites; eliminate lead, increases circulation, detoxification. Indications: Rhubarb Root has a purgative action for use in the treatment of constipation, but also has an astringent effect following this. It therefore has a truly cleansing action upon the gut, removing debris and then astringing with antiseptic properties as well. Note: Rhubarb Root may color the urine yellow or red. Priest & Priest tell us that it is a "mild stimulating tonic to alimentary mucous membrane, liver and gall ducts - removes viscid mucus. Small doses - tonic hepatic. Large doses - cathartic." They give the following specific indications: diarrhoea anddysentary, summer diarrhoea, functional dyspepsia. Ellingwood recommends it for the following patholgies: atonicconditions of the bowels, with debility or generalrelaxation, wether diarrhoea, dysentary, choleramorbus, cholera infantum. King's Dispensatory gives it specific indications and uses as "gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting, elongated tongue reddened at tip and edges; irritative diarrhoea with tenderness on pressure; sour smelling discharges imparting to a child a sour odour; gastro-intestinal irritation with nervous irritability, restlessness, screaming and convulsive muscular contractions; constipation, with a sense of intestinal constriction and abdominal contraction; light-coloured fecal discharge. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus RUMEX ACETOSELLA - SHEEP SORREL HERB Medicinal Action and Uses: The whole herb is employed medicinally, in the fresh state. The action is diuretic, refrigerant and diaphoretic, and the juice extracted from the fresh plant is of use in urinary and kidney diseases. Rene Caisse (the Canadian nurse who popularized Caisse - formula for life threatening illness -  as a cancer cure) felt this herb was the most active cancer fighter among all the herbs present in the old Indian brew. "The herb that will destroy cancer is the dog-eared sheep sorrel, sometimes called sour grass," she said on a number of occasions. And she may have been right. Interestingly, for hundreds of years, sheep sorrel has appeared in historical archives in both North America and Europe as a remedy for cancer. In 1926, the National Cancer Institute was presented with a recipe from Canada which was said to be an old Indian cure for cancer. The main ingredient was none other than sheep sorrel. Rene Caisse observed that not only was sheep sorrel effective in attacking and breaking down tumours, it also was effective in alleviating many chronic conditions and degenerative diseases. It has been reported by other researchers that sheep sorrel relieves internal ulcers, black jaundice and virtually all skin diseases. The seeds of sheep sorrel, steeped in wine, have been used to stop hemorrhages and heavy menstrual flow. In addition, the seeds an anti-venomous property that relieves bites and rids the body of poisons [toxins]. Sheep sorrel reportedly acts as a tonic for the urinary tract. Poultices can be made with an infusion of the leaves and applied directly to boils and tumours. In 1475, Thorleif Bjornsson, author of an Iceland Medical Manuscript, wrote, "Its juice put in the eyes makes them bright .. its juice in the ear makes one hear well. Sheep sorrel contains high amounts of vitamins A and B-complex, especially in its seed, C, D, E, K, P and vitamin U. Hungarian researchers have found that the leaves of sheep sorrel have a total carotenoid content of 8-12 percent. It's also rich in minerals, including calcium, chlorine, iron, magnesium, silicon, sodium, sulfur, and trace amounts of copper, iodine, manganese, and zinc. Other vital health-giving elements in sheep sorrel are the carotenoids and chlorophyll which are present in the leaves and stems, and several organic acids which include malic, oxalic, tannic, tartaric, and citric, an antioxidant. Chlorophyll, the substance which makes plants green, resembles hemoglobin in human blood. And like hemoglobin, [it] carries oxygen to every cell in our body. Sheep sorrel is rich in oxalic acid in the form of potassium oxalate. Oxalic acid has been shown to be a powerful oxidizing acid which stimulates the human system into activity. Oxalic acid combines with calcium to aid in digestive assimilation, plus, oxalic acid stimulates the peristaltic action of the intestines and may even be responsible for increased blood coagulation. Using just the root of the sheep sorrel, people have gained improvement from stomach hemorrhages and jaundice conditions. It can be seen that sheep sorrel, a truly remarkable herb by itself, surely plays a vital role as part of the great healing power of ESSIAC. Note by Dr. Juergen Buche, N.D.: One of the prime properties of sheep sorrel does not get mentioned in the above article which was copied verbatim (pages 79 to 81) from the book: "The Essiac Report - Canada's Remarkable Unknown Cancer Remedy" by Richard Thomas. It is the following: Sheep sorrel lowers the resistance of parasites which can cause many misunderstood symptoms (1). In other words, sheep sorrel kills parasites and this is of primordial importance in the treatment of many diseases and cancer in particular. Sheep Sorrel is highly praised as a vermifuge - intestinal worms have no resistance to the natural properties of this herb. Sorrel is also considered a good remedy for stomach hemorrhage and profuse menstruation. Additionally, a tincture of Sheep Sorrel can support conditions which have a tendency for tissue degeneration. Sorrel root is best known for its astringent properties, though it has also been used historically as an antiseptic, diuretic, hepatic, and laxative. Throughout the centuries, the Sorrels have appeared in historical archives as an unproven folk remedy for cancer in both Europe and America . In the late 1740's, legislation was introduced in Williamsburg , Virginia , that permitted Mrs. Mary Johnson to use this plant as a treatment for cancer. In the 1868 Canadian Pharmacy Journal, the leaves of both the Sheep Sorrel and the taller Common Sorrel (Rumex acetosa) were included in the list of Canadian medicinal plants. In 1926, the National Cancer Institute received a recipe from Canada citing an old Indian cure for cancer using a paste of this plant made with bread. Historically, Sheep Sorrel has been known to prevent the spread of contagious diseases such as the plague, and has overcome fevers caused by cholera and malaria. The parts of this plant used medicinally are the above ground portions. Sheep Sorrel has also had several traditional culinary uses, including the addition of the leaves to salad, egg dishes, soups, and stews; and as a juice (from the leaves) used to curdle milk to make cheese. Sheep Sorrel is sometimes called sour-grass because of its sharp taste. This herb is known to add a lovely tart taste to food, and has been used to make cool, refreshing beverages. A tea made from the leaves & stem will act as a diuretic, and may be helpful to support problems with gravel and stones. For mouth and throat ulcers, a tea made from the leaves & flowers of this plant may provide some relief. In China , raw Sheep Sorrel is given after birthing to "cool" the reproductive area and prevent infection. The primary chemical constituents: anthraquinones (chrysophanol, emodin), oxalic acid, tartaric acid, beta carotene, vitamin C, and tannins. This herb is highly praised as a vermifuge - intestinal worms have no resistance to the properties of this herb. Sorrel is also considered a good remedy for stomach hemorrhage and profuse menstruation. One of Sheep Sorrel's main claims to fame is its inclusion in the herbal tea, Essiac, which is purported to be effective in the fight against cancer, though this has never been clinically proven. Additionally, a tincture of Sheep Sorrel has a very decided action in those cases where there is a tendency for tissue degeneration. More about Caisse - formula for life threatening illness - : www.godshaer.co.uk/essiac.php ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus SAMBUCUS NIGRA FRUCTUS - ELDER BERRY It is a deciduous shrub or small tree growing to 46 m (rarely to 10 m) tall. The bark, light grey when young, changes to a coarse grey outer bark with lengthwise furrowing. The leaves are arranged in opposite pairs, 1030 cm long, pinnate with five to seven (rarely nine) leaflets, the leaflets 512 cm long and 35 cm broad, with a serrated margin. The hermaphrodite flowers are borne in large corymbs 1025 cm diameter in mid summer, the individual flowers white, 56 mm diameter, with five petals; they are pollinated by flies. The fruit is a dark purple to black berry 35 mm diameter, produced in drooping clusters in the late autumn; they are an important food for many fruit-eating birds, notably Blackcaps. The dark blue/purple berries can be eaten when fully ripe but are mildly poisonous in their unripe state.[6] . All green parts of the plant are poisonous, containing cyanogenic glycosides (Vedel & Lange 1960). The berries are edible after cooking and can be used to make jam, jelly, chutney and Pontack sauce. Also when cooked they go well with blackberries and with apples in pies. The flowerheads are commonly used in infusions, giving a very common refreshing drink in Northern Europe and Balkans. Commercially these are sold as elderflower cordial, etc. In Europe, the flowers are made into a syrup or cordial (in Romanian: Socat, in Swedish: flder(blom)saft), which is diluted with water before drinking. The popularity of this traditional drink has recently encouraged some commercial soft drink producers to introduce elderflower-flavoured drinks (Fanta Shokata, Freaky Flder). The flowers can also be dipped into a light batter and then fried to make elderflower fritters. In Scandinavia and Germany, soup made from the elder berry (e.g. the German Fliederbeersuppe) is a traditional meal. Both flowers and berries can be made into elderberry wine, and in Hungary an elderberry brandy is produced (requiring 50 kg of fruit to produce 1 litre of brandy). The alcoholic drink sambuca is not made with elderberries. In south-western Sweden, it is traditional to make a snaps liqueur flavored with elderflower. It is also made and sold commercially, under the name Hallands Flder, named after the landscape where it is traditionally made. Elderflowers are also used in liqueurs such as St. Germain and a mildly alcoholic sparkling elderflower 'champagne'. In Beerse, Belgium, a variety of Jenever called Beers Vlierke is made from the berries. This plant is traditionally used as a medicinal plant by many native peoples and herbalists alike. Stembark, leaves, flowers, fruits, root extracts are used to treat bronchitis, cough, upper respiratory cold infections, fever. A small (N=60) double blind clinical trial published in 2004 showed reduction in both duration and severity of flu-like symptoms for patients receiving elderberry syrup versus placebo. In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study, black elderberry (Sambucus nigra) was shown to be effective for treating Influenza B.[9] People using the elderberry extract recovered much faster than those only on a placebo. The study was published in the Journal of Alternative Complementary Medicine. A small study published in 2004 showed that 93% of flu patients given extract were completely symptom-free within two days; those taking a placebo recovered in about six days. This current study shows that, indeed, it works for type A flu, reports lead researcher Erling Thom, with the University of Oslo in Norway.[10] However, the study that showed these results was sponsored by an Israeli company that produces various black elderberry extracts. Elderberry flowers are sold in Ukrainian and Russian drugstores for relief of congestion, specifically as an expectorant to relieve dry cough and make it productive. The dried flowers are simmered for 15 minutes, the resulting flavorful and aromatic tea is poured through a coffee filter. Some individuals find it better hot, others cold, and some may experience an allergic reaction. The flowers can be used to make an herbal tea as a remedy for inflammation caused by colds and fever. STEVIA REBOUDIANA - STEVIA LEAF Common local name: Sweet Leaf. For complete information about Stevia see www.godshaer.co.uk/stevia.php There are many very ligitimate reasons for using Stevia as a medicinal food. In spite of the prominence Stevia has obtained as a flavor enhancer, it contains a variety of constituents besides the steviosides and rebaudiosides, generous amounts of sterols, triterpenes, flavonoids, tannins, and an extremely rich volatile oil comprising rich proportions of aromatics, aldehyde, monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes. These and other as of yet unidentified constituents, probably have some impact on human physiology and may help explain some of the reported therapeutic uses of Stevia. Antihyperglycaemic: Stevioside helps control blood sugar level, making it especially good for type II diabetics. Studies indicate it acts on pancreatic cells helping them produce insulin. In diabetics, a 35.2% fall in normal blood sugar levels is noted 6-8 hours following the ingestion of a Stevia leaf extract. However, it is important to note that Stevia does not lower blood glucose levels in normal subjects. Jeppesen PB, Gregersen S, Poulsen CR, Hermansen K. The stevioside in whole Stevia acts directly on pancreatic beta cells to secrete insulin: actions independent of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and adenosine triphosphatesensitive K+-channel activity. Metabolism. 2000 Feb;49(2):208-14. PMID: 10690946 Gregersen S, Jeppesen PB, Holst JJ, Hermansen K. Antihyperglycemic effects of stevioside in type 2 diabetic subjects. Metabolism. 2004;53(1):73-76. Antihypertensive: Stevioside is a great natural way to regulate blood pressure. Lee, C. N., et al. Inhibitory effect of stevioside on calcium influx to produce antihypertension. Planta Med. 2001; 67(9): 796-9. Hsu, Y. H., et al. Antihypertensive effect of stevioside in different strains of hypertensive rats. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi ( Taipei ). 2002; 65(1): 1-6. Antioxidizin g: Stevia has been shown to have great anti-oxidizing properties, even more than green tea. Xi, Y., T. Yamaguchi, et al. (1998). Antioxidant mechanism of Stevia rebaudiana extract and antioxidant activity of inorganic salts. Nippon Shokuhin Kagaku Kogaku Kaishi 45(5): 317-322. {a} Fac. Agric., Tohoku Univ. , 1-1 Tsutsumidori-Amaniya, Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi, Miyagi 981-8555 Xi, Y., T. Yamaguchi, et al. (1998). Antioxidant activity of Stevia rebaudiana. Nippon Shokuhin Kagaku Kogaku Kaishi 45(5): 310-316. {a} Fac. Agric., Tohoku Univ. , 1-1 Tsutsumidori-Amamiya, Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi, Miyagi 981-8555, Japan Anti-bacterial: The ability of Stevia to inhibit the growth and reproduction of bacteria and other infectious organisms is important in at least two respects. First, it may help explain why users of Stevia-enhanced products report a lower incidence of colds and flus, and second, it has fostered the invention of a number of mouthwash and toothpaste products. Research clearly shows that Streptococcus mutans, Pseudomonas aeruginos, Proteus vulgaris and other microbes do not thrive in the presence of Stevia constituents. Bactericidal activity of a fermented hot-water extract from Stevia rebaudiana Bertoni towards enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 and other food-borne pathogenic bacteria. Tomita T, Sato N, Arai T, Shiraishi H, Sato M, Takeuchi M, Kamio Y. -Anti-plaque: Stevioside not only does not cause cavities, it's also great for oral health because it fights plaque! This is due to it's antibacterial properties, which inhibit the growth of bacteria causing plaque. (Berry et al., 1981; Yabu et al., 1977). Digestive Tonic Action : In the literature of Brazil , Stevia ranks high because of its contribution to improve digestion, and that it improved overall gastrointestinal function. Likewise, since its introduction in China , Stevia tea, made from either hot or cold water, has been used as a low calorie, sweet-tasting tea, as an appetite stimulant, and as a digestive aid. Dozens (if not hundreds) of studies have confirmed this. Just to quote one, this is the conclusion of a study published in "Safety of Stevioside" edited by Jan M.C. Geuns & Johan G. Buyse: "The conclusion is that Stevia and stevioside are safe when used as sweeteners. Stevioside might be beneficial to type 2 diabetics, and is safe for phenylketonurea (PKU) patients as no aminoacids are involved, as well as for obese patients intending to lose weight by avoiding sugar supplements in the diet, and higher doses are beneficial are beneficial for persons with hypertension (see Geuns, 2004). It is not carcinogenic, not cariogenic, and no allergenicity problems seem to be known. It can be concluded that stevioside used as a sweetener is completely safe". (p 81.) The first official investigation of possible toxicity from Stevia was performed in 1931 by Pomaret and coworkers in South America . Their tests proved negative for toxicity. They observed that steviosides pass through the human alimentary canal without being altered by digestive processes. More elaborate safety tests were performed by the Japanese during their evaluations of Stevia as a possible sweetening agent. Few substances have ever yielded such consistently negative results in toxicity trials as has Stevia. Almost every toxicity test imaginable has been performed on Stevia extract or stevioside at one time or another. The results are always negative. No abnormalities in weight change, food intake, cell or membrane characteristics, enzyme and substrate utilization, or chromosome characteristics are recorded. No cancer, no birth defects, no acute and no chronic untoward effects. Nothing. Glycoside Content Steviol glycosides 72% (Stevioside 45%, Rebaudioside A 19%, others 8%) Other glucosides 8% Sodium 27.2 mg/100g Calcium 74.7 mg/100g Magnesium 221 mg/100g Protein 6.05 mg/100g Dietary Fiber 2.77 g/100g Other constituents: sterols, triterpenes, flavonoids, tannins, and an extremely rich volatile oil comprising rich proportions of aromatics, aldehyde, monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes. Medicinal Uses: there are many very legitimate reasons for using stevia as a medicinal food. In spite of the prominence stevia has obtained as a flavour enhancer, it contains a variety of constituents besides the steviosides and rebaudiosides, including the nutrients specified above. These and other, as yet unidentified constituents probably have some impact on human physiology and may help explain some of the reported beneficial therapeutic uses of stevia. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus TARAXACUM OFFICINALE - DANDELION ROOT The Dandelion (Taraxacum officinale, Weber, T. Densleonis, Desf; Leontodon taraxacum, Linn.), though not occurring in the Southern Hemisphere, is at home in all parts of the north temperate zone, in pastures, meadows and on waste ground, and is so plentiful that farmers everywhere find it a troublesome weed, for though its flowers are more conspicuous in the earlier months of the summer, it may be found in bloom, and consequently also prolifically dispersing its seeds, almost throughout the year. Description: From its thick tap root, dark brown, almost black on the outside though white and milky within, the long jagged leaves rise directly, radiating from it to form a rosette Iying close upon the ground, each leaf being grooved and constructed so that all the rain falling on it is conducted straight to the centre of the rosette and thus to the root which is, therefore, always kept well watered. The maximum amount of water is in this manner directed towards the proper region for utilization by the root, which but for this arrangement would not obtain sufficient moisture, the leaves being spread too close to the ground for the water to penetrate. The leaves are shiny and without hairs, the margin of each leaf cut into great jagged teeth, either upright or pointing somewhat backwards, and these teeth are themselves cut here and there into lesser teeth. It is this somewhat fanciful resemblance to the canine teeth of a lion that (it is generally assumed) gives the plant its most familiar name of Dandelion, which is a corruption of the French Dent de Lion, an equivalent of this name being found not only in its former specific Latin name Dens leonis and in the Greek name for the genus to which Linnaeus assigned it, Leontodon, but also in nearly all the languages of Europe. There is some doubt, however, as to whether it was really the shape of the leaves that provided the original notion, as there is really no similarity between them, but the leaves may perhaps be said to resemble the angular jaw of a lion fully supplied with teeth. Some authorities have suggested that the yellow flowers might be compared to the golden teeth of the heraldic lion, while others say that the whiteness of the root is the feature which provides the resemblance. Flckiger and Hanbury in Pharmacographia, say that the name was conferred by Wilhelm, a surgeon, who was so much impressed by the virtues of the plant that he likened it to Dens leonis. In the Ortus Sanitatis, 1485, under 'Dens Leonis,' there is a monograph of half a page (unaccompanied by any illustration) which concludes: 'The Herb was much employed by Master Wilhelmus, a surgeon, who on account of its virtues, likened it to "eynem lewen zan, genannt zu latin Dens leonis" (a lion's tooth, called in Latin Dens leonis).' In the pictures of the old herbals, for instance, the one in Brunfels' Contrafayt Kreuterbuch, 1532, the leaves very much resemble a lion's tooth. The root is not illustrated at all in the old herbals, as only the herb was used at that time. The name of the genus, Taraxacum, is derived from the Greek taraxos (disorder), and akos (remedy), on account of the curative action of the plant. A possible alternative derivation of Taraxacum is suggested in The Treasury of Botany: 'The generic name is possibly derived from the Greek taraxo ("I have excited" or "caused") and achos (pain), in allusion to the medicinal effects of the plant.' There are many varieties of Dandelion leaves; some are deeply cut into segments, in others the segments or lobes form a much less conspicuous feature, and are sometimes almost entire. The shining, purplish flower-stalks rise straight from the root, are leafless, smooth and hollow and bear single heads of flowers. On picking the flowers, a bitter, milky juice exudes from the broken edges of the stem, which is present throughout the plant, and which when it comes into contact with the hand, turns to a brown stain that is rather difficult to remove. Each bloom is made up of numerous strapshaped florets of a bright golden yellow. This strap-shaped corolla is notched at the edge into five teeth, each tooth representing a petal, and lower down is narrowed into a claw-like tube, which rests on the singlechambered ovary containing a single ovule. In this tiny tube is a copious supply of nectar, which more than half fills it, and the presence of which provides the incentive for the visits of many insects, among whom the bee takes first rank. The Dandelion takes an important place among honey-producing plants, as it furnishes considerable quantities of both pollen and nectar in the early spring, when the bees' harvest from fruit trees is nearly over. It is also important from the beekeeper's point of view, because not only does it flower most in spring, no matter how cool the weather may be, but a small succession of bloom is also kept up until late autumn, so that it is a source of honey after the main flowers have ceased to bloom, thus delaying the need for feeding the colonies of bees with artificial food. Many little flies also are to be found visiting the Dandelion to drink the lavishly-supplied nectar. By carefully watching, it has been ascertained that no less than ninety-three different kinds of insects are in the habit of frequenting it. The stigma grows up through the tube formed by the anthers, pushing the pollen before it, and insects smearing themselves with this pollen carry it to the stigmas of other flowers already expanded, thus insuring cross-fertilization. At the base of each flower-head is a ring of narrow, green bracts the involucre. Some of these stand up to support the florets, others hang down to form a barricade against such small insects as might crawl up the stem and injure the bloom without taking a share in its fertilization, as the winged insects do. The blooms are very sensitive to weather conditions: in fine weather, all the parts are outstretched, but directly rain threatens the whole head closes up at once. It closes against the dews of night, by five o'clock in the evening, being prepared for its night's sleep, opening again at seven in the morning though as this opening and closing is largely dependent upon the intensity of the light, the time differs somewhat in different latitudes and at different seasons. When the whole head has matured, all the florets close up again within the green sheathing bracts that lie beneath, and the bloom returns very much to the appearance it had in the bud. Its shape being then somewhat reminiscent of the snout of a pig, it is termed in some districts 'Swine's Snout.' The withered, yellow petals are, however soon pushed off in a bunch, as the seeds, crowned with their tufts of hair, mature, and one day, under the influence of sun and wind the 'Swine's Snout' becomes a large gossamer ball, from its silky whiteness a very noticeable feature. It is made up of myriads of plumed seeds or pappus, ready to be blown off when quite ripe by the slightest breeze, and forms the 'clock' of the children, who by blowing at it till all the seeds are released, love to tell themselves the time of day by the number of puffs necessary to disperse every seed. When all the seeds have flown, the receptacle or disc on which they were placed remains bare, white, speckled and surrounded by merely the drooping remnants of the sheathing bracts, and we can see why the plant received another of its popular names, 'Priest's Crown,' common in the Middle Ages, when a priest's shorn head was a familiar object. Small birds are very fond of the seeds of the Dandelion and pigs devour the whole plant greedily. Goats will eat it, but sheep and cattle do not care for it, though it is said to increase the milk of cows when eaten by them. Horses refuse to touch this plant, not appreciating its bitter juice. It is valuable food for rabbits and may be given them from April to September forming excellent food in spring and at breeding seasons in particular. The young leaves of the Dandelion make an agreeable and wholesome addition to spring salads and are often eaten on the Continent, especially in France . The full-grown leaves should not be taken, being too bitter, but the young leaves, especially if blanched, make an excellent salad, either alone or in combination with other plants, lettuce, shallot tops or chives. Young Dandelion leaves make delicious sandwiches, the tender leaves being laid between slices of bread and butter and sprinkled with salt. The addition of a little lemon-juice and pepper varies the flavour. The leaves should always be torn to pieces, rather than cut, in order to keep the flavour. John Evelyn, in his Acetana, says: 'With thie homely salley, Hecate entertained Theseus.' In Wales , they grate or chop up Dandelion roots, two years old, and mix them with the leaves in salad. The seed of a special broad-leaved variety of Dandelion is sold by seedsmen for cultivation for salad purposes. Dandelion can be blanched in the same way as endive, and is then very delicate in flavour. If covered with an ordinary flower-pot during the winter, the pot being further buried under some rough stable litter, the young leaves sprout when there is a dearth of saladings and prove a welcome change in early spring. Cultivated thus, Dandelion is only pleasantly bitter, and if eaten while the leaves are quite young, the centre rib of the leaf is not at all unpleasant to the taste. When older the rib is tough and not nice to eat. If the flower-buds of plants reserved in a corner of the garden for salad purposes are removed at once and the leaves carefully cut, the plants will last through the whole winter. The young leaves may also be boiled as a vegetable, spinach fashion, thoroughly drained, sprinkled with pepper and salt, moistened with soup or butter and served very hot. If considered a little too bitter, use half spinach, but the Dandelion must be partly cooked first in this case, as it takes longer than spinach. As a variation, some grated nutmeg or garlic, a teaspoonful of chopped onion or grated lemon peel can be added to the greens when they are cooked. A simple vegetable soup may also be made with Dandelions. The dried Dandelion leaves are also employed as an ingredient in many digestive or diet drinks and herb beers. Dandelion Beer is a rustic fermented drink common in many parts of the country and made also in Canada . Workmen in the furnaces and potteries of the industrial towns of the Midlands have frequent resource to many of the tonic Herb Beers, finding them cheaper and less intoxicating than ordinary beer, and Dandelion stout ranks as a favourite. An agreeable and wholesome fermented drink is made from Dandelions, Nettles and Yellow Dock. In Berkshire and Worcestershire, the flowers are used in the preparation of a beverage known as Dandelion Wine. This is made by pouring a gallon of boiling water over a gallon of the flowers. After being well stirred, it is covered with a blanket and allowed to stand for three days, being stirred again at intervals, after which it is strained and the liquor boiled for 30 minutes, with the addition of 3 1/2 lb. of loaf sugar, a little ginger sliced, the rind of 1 orange and 1 lemon sliced. When cold, a little yeast is placed in it on a piece of toast, producing fermentation. It is then covered over and allowed to stand two days until it has ceased 'working,' when it is placed in a cask, well bunged down for two months before bottling. This wine is suggestive of sherry slightly flat, and has the deserved reputation of being an excellent tonic, extremely good for the blood. The roasted roots are largely used to form Dandelion Coffee, being first thoroughly cleaned, then dried by artificial heat, and slightly roasted till they are the tint of coffee, when they are ground ready for use. The roots are taken up in the autumn, being then most fitted for this purpose. The prepared powder is said to be almost indistinguishable from real coffee, and is claimed to be an improvement to inferior coffee, which is often an adulterated product. Of late years, Dandelion Coffee has come more into use in this country, being obtainable at most vegetarian restaurants and stores. Formerly it used occasionally to be given for medicinal purposes, generally mixed with true coffee to give it a better flavour. The ground root was sometimes mixed with chocolate for a similar purpose. Dandelion Coffee is a natural beverage without any of the injurious effects that ordinary tea and coffee have on the nerves and digestive organs. It exercises a stimulating influence over the whole system, helping the liver and kidneys to do their work and keeping the bowels in a healthy condition, so that it offers great advantages to dyspeptics and does not cause wakefulness. Parts Used Medicinally: The root, fresh and dried, the young tops. All parts of the plant contain a somewhat bitter, milky juice (latex), but the juice of the root being still more powerful is the part of the plant most used for medicinal purposes. History: The first mention of the Dandelion as a medicine is in the works of the Arabian physicians of the tenth and eleventh centuries, who speak of it as a sort of wild Endive, under the name of Taraxcacon. In this country, we find allusion to it in the Welsh medicines of the thirteenth century. Dandelion was much valued as a medicine in the times of Gerard and Parkinson, and is still extensively employed. Dandelion roots have long been largely used on the Continent, and the plant is cultivated largely in India as a remedy for liver complaints. The root is perennial and tapering, simple or more or less branched, attaining in a good soil a length of a foot or more and 1/2 inch to an inch in diameter. Old roots divide at the crown into several heads. The root is fleshy and brittle, externally of a dark brown, internally white and abounding in an inodorous milky juice of bitter, but not disagreeable taste. Only large, fleshy and well-formed roots should be collected, from plants two years old, not slender, forked ones. Roots produced in good soil are easier to dig up without breaking, and are thicker and less forked than those growing on waste places and by the roadside. Collectors should, therefore only dig in good, free soil, in moisture and shade, from meadow-land. Dig up in wet weather, but not during frost, which materially lessens the activity of the roots. Avoid breaking the roots, using a long trowel or a fork, lifting steadily and carefully. Shake off as much of the earth as possible and then cleanse the roots, the easiest way being to leave them in a basket in a running stream so that the water covers them, for about an hour, or shake them, bunched, in a tank of clean water. Cut off the crowns of leaves, but be careful in so doing not to leave any scales on the top. Do not cut or slice the roots or the valuable milky juice on which their medicinal value depends will be wasted by bleeding. Chemical Constituents: The chief constituents of Dandelion root are Taraxacin, acrystalline, bitter substance, of which the yield varies in roots collected at different seasons, and Taraxacerin, an acrid resin, with Inulin (a sort of sugar which replaces starch in many of the Dandelion family, Compositae), gluten, gum and potash. The root contains no starch, but early in the year contains much uncrystallizable sugar and laevulin, which differs from Inulin in being soluble in cold water. This diminishes in quantity during the summer and becomes Inulin in the autumn. The root may contain as much as 24 per cent. In the fresh root, the Inulin is present in the cell-sap, but in the dry root it occurs as an amorphodus, transparent solid, which is only slightly soluble in cold water, but soluble in hot water. There is a difference of opinion as to the best time for collecting the roots. The British Pharmacopceia considers the autumn dug root more bitter than the spring root, and that as it contains about 25 per cent insoluble Inulin, it is to be preferred on this account to the spring root, and it is, therefore, directed that in England the root should be collected between September and February, it being considered to be in perfection for Extract making in the month of November. Bentley, on the other hand, contended that it is more bitter in March and most of all in July, but that as in the latter month it would generally be inconvenient for digging it, it should be dug in the spring, when the yield of Taraxacin, the bitter soluble principle, is greatest. On account of the variability of the constituents of the plant according to the time of year when gathered, the yield and composition of the extract are very variable. If gathered from roots collected in autumn, the resulting product yields a turbid solution with water; if from spring-collected roots, the aqueous solution will be clear and yield but very little sediment on standing, because of the conversion of the Inulin into Laevulose and sugar at this active period of the plant's life. In former days, Dandelion Juice was the favourite preparation both in official and domestic medicine. Provincial druggists sent their collectors for the roots and expressed the juice while these were quite fresh. Many country druggists prided themselves on their Dandelion Juice. The most active preparations of Dandelion, the Juice (Succus Taraxaci) and the Extract (Extractum Taraxaci), are made from the bruised fresh root. The Extract prepared from the fresh root is sometimes almost devoid of bitterness. The dried root alone was official in the United States Pharmacopoeia. The leaves are now often used, also for making Herb-Beer. A medicinal tincture is sometimes made from the entire plant gathered in the early summer. It is made with proof spirit. When collecting the seeds care should be taken when drying them in the sun, to cover them with coarse muslin, as otherwise the down will carry them away. They are best collected in the evening, towards sunset, or when the damp air has caused the heads to close up. The tops should be cut on a dry day, when quite free of rain or dew, and all insect-eaten or stained leaves rejected. Medicinal Action and Uses: Diuretic, tonic and slightly aperient. It is a general stimulant to the system, but especially to the urinary organs, and is chiefly used in kidney and liver disorders. Dandelion is not only official but is used in many patent medicines. Not being poisonous, quite big doses of its preparations may be taken. Its beneficial action is best obtained when combined with other agents. The tincture made from the tops may be taken in doses of 10 to 15 drops in a spoonful of water, three times daily. It is said that its use for liver complaints was assigned to the plant largely on the doctrine of signatures, because of its bright yellow flowers of a bilious hue. In the hepatic complaints of persons long resident in warm climates, Dandelion is said to afford very marked relief. A broth of Dandelion roots, sliced and stewed in boiling water with some leaves of Sorrel and the yolk of an egg, taken daily for some months, has been known to cure seemingly intractable cases of chronic liver congestion. A strong decoction is found serviceable in stone and gravel: the decoction may be made by boiling 1 pint of the sliced root in 20 parts of water for 15 minutes, straining this when cold and sweetening with brown sugar or honey. A small teacupful may be taken once or twice a day. Dandelion is used as a bitter tonic in atonic dyspepsia, and as a mild laxative in habitual constipation. When the stomach is irritated and where active treatment would be injurious, the decoction or extract of Dandelion administered three or four times a day, will often prove a valuable remedy. It has a good effect in increasing the appetite and promoting digestion. Dandelion combined with other active remedies has been used in cases of dropsy and for induration of the liver, and also on the Continent for phthisis and some cutaneous diseases. A decoction of 2oz. of the herb or root in 1 quart of water, boiled down to a pint, is taken in doses of one wineglassful every three hours for scurvy, scrofula, eczema and all eruptions on the surface of the body. Dandelion Tea: Infuse 1oz. of Dandelion in a pint of boiling water for 10 minutes; decant, sweeten with honey, and drink several glasses in the course of the day. The use of this tea is efficacious in bilious affections, and is also much approved of in the treatment of dropsy. Or take 2oz. of freshly-sliced Dandelion root, and boil in 2 pints of water until it comes to 1 pint; then add 1oz. of compound tincture of Horseradish. Dose, from 2 to 4oz. Use in a sluggish state of the liver. Or 1oz. Dandelion root, 1oz. Black Horehound herb, 1/2oz. Sweet Flag root, 1/4oz. Mountain Flax. Simmer the whole in 3 pints of water down to 1 1/2 pint, strain and take a wineglassful after meals for biliousness and dizziness. For Gall Stones: 1oz. Dandelion root, 1oz. Parsley root, 1oz. Balm herb, 1/2oz. Ginger root, 1/2oz. Liquorice root. Place in 2 quarts of water and gently simmer down to 1 quart, strain and take a wineglassful every two hours. (See our Liver and Gall Bladder Flush Programme, www.godshaer.co.uk/liverflush.php ) For a young child suffering from jaundice: 1oz. Dandelion root, 1/2 oz. Ginger root, 1/2 oz. Caraway seed, 1/2 oz. Cinnamon bark, 1/4 oz. Senna leaves. Gently boil in 3 pints of water down to 1 1/2 pint, strain, dissolve 1/2 lb. sugar in hot liquid, bring to a boil again, skim all impurities that come to the surface when clear, put on one side to cool, and give frequently in teaspoonful doses. A Liver and Kidney Mixture: 1oz. Broom tops, 1/2 oz. Juniper berries, 1/2 oz. Dandelion root, 1 1/2 pint water. Boil in gredients for 10 minutes, then strain and adda small quantity of cayenne. Dose, 1 tablespoonful, three times a day. A Medicine for Piles: 1 OZ. Long-leaved Plantain, 1 OZ. Dandelion root, 1/2 oz. Polypody root, 1 OZ. Shepherd's Purse. Add 3 pints of water, boil down to half the quantity, strain, and add 1 OZ. of tincture of Rhubarb. Dose, a wineglassful three times a day. Celandine ointment to be applied at same time. In Derbyshire, the juice of the stalk is applied to remove warts. (This information from A Modern Herbal by Mrs Grieve) Dandelion root is used to improve appetite and minor digestive problems. Some modern naturopathic physicians believe that it can help detoxify the liver and gallbladder. It shows proven value as a diuretic, flushing excess water from the body. It is believed by many experts to promote the flow of bile and stimulates the appetite. Dandelion juice once was quite popular as a diuretic, laxative, and remedy for rheumatism. Dandelion is considered a remedy for the following conditions: Appetite loss Indigestion Kidney and bladder stones Liver and gallbladder problems Urinary tract infections Dandelion Nutritional Content: Dandelion contains lactupicrine, a bitter principle, tannin, insulin, a latex-like substance, polysaccharides, and carotene. Actions: cholagogue; inflammation and congestion of liver and gall-bladder; cholecystitis, gall stones, atonic dyspepsia with constipation, muscular rheumatism; congestive jaundice - specific. Good general tonic. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus TRITICUM SATIVA - WHEATGRASS Action: Improves function of the heart, affects the vascular system, the uterus, the intestine and the lungs; a body cleanser; rebuilds, neutralises toxins; detoxification, can dissolve scars that are formed in the lungs from breathing acid gasses increases haemoglobin production; reduce high blood pressure; gives the blood iron which helps circulation; purifies the blood; acts as a detergent on the body. Helps overcome dandruff. Rub the juice into the scalp: vaginal infections (douche); tooth decay; sore throat; pyorrhoea of the mouth; skin troubles; keep hair from greying; It helps overcome ageing and gives energy to the sex hormones. Anaemia, capillaries; toxic metals - lead, cadmium, mercury, aluminium, and excessive amounts of copper; builds up the white blood cells. It has been reported that Chlorophyll: Inhibits chromosome damage and this action may effectively block cancer. Increases your resistance to X rays. Eliminates germs and inhibits the growth of harmful bacteria. Reduces the damaging effects of radiation burns. Stimulates the regeneration of fresh tissue. Purifies the liver and relieves pancreas inflammation. Dramatically raises the oxygen level in the tissue cells. Cleanses the walls of blood vessels. Strengthens the cell walls which may improve the function of the heart, intestines, lungs, uterus and vascular system. To increase oxygen at the cellular level may be vital in eliminating cancer. Otto Warburg in the 1930's demonstrated that cancer cannot grow rapidly in the presence of oxygen. His theory was that cancer is a process of cell mutation engendered by a lack of oxygen at the cellular level. He reasoned that ant effective cancer therapy must increase the oxygen content of the blood. Because chlorophyll increases the oxygen content of the blood, it may in fact decrease cell mutation and therefore counteract cancer. Chlorophyll, also because of its high oxygen content, may be effective against other conditions including AIDS and HIV-related viruses. Research at the Linus Pauling Institute and the Anderson Hospital in Texas has shown that chlorophyll juice produces some immunity against many carcinogens and strengthens the immune system. Japanese researchers have reportedly discovered that chlorophyll juice inhibits chromosome damage, which is a precursor of cancer. Carotenoid is a vital element in chlorophyll. Hungarian researchers have found that the leaves of sheep sorrel (also included in the ABC Daily Powder, see above) have a total carotenoid content of 8-12 percent. Beta carotene is a member of the family of carotenoids. Research from multiple sources has shown that beta carotene is converted to vitamin A in our liver. Vitamin A strengthens the immune system by increasing the production of white blood cells. It is white blood cells that destroy cancer cells. Beta carotene is an antioxidant which means it can control the build-up of harmful free radials. Free radicals can actually alter genes and seriously damage cell walls. All carotenoids and especially beta carotene are coming under closer scientific scrutiny because of their ability to strengthen the immune system. Dr. Harinder Garewal, at the University of Arizona Cancer Center in Tucson, found that pre-cancerous lesions in the mouth diminished in size in 70% of the patients tested with only 30 mg of carotene a day. Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus ............................................ ULMUS FULVA  SLIPPERY ELM BARK Synonyms: Red Elm. Moose Elm. Indian Elm. Part Used: The inner bark. The inner bark has important medicinal value and is an official drug of the United States Pharmacopoeia. The bark, which is the only part used, is collected in spring from the bole and larger branches and dried. Large quantities are collected, especially in the lower part of the state of Michigan . As the wood has no commercial value, the tree is fully stripped and consequently dies. The bark as it appears in commerce for use in medicine consists only of the inner bark or bast and is sold in flat pieces 2 to 3 feet long and several inches wide, but only about 1/8 to 1/16 of an inch in thickness. It is very tough and flexible, of a fine fibrous texture, finely striated longitudinally on both surfaces, the outer surface reddish-yellow, with patches of reddish brown, which are part of the outer bark adhering to the inner bast. It has an odour like Fenugreek and a very mucilaginous, insipid taste. The strips can be bent double without breaking: if broken, the rough fracture is mealy, strongly but finely fibrous. The clean transverse section shows numerous medullary rays and altemate bands of bast parenchyma, thus giving it a chequered appearance. A section moistened and left for a few minutes, and again examined, shows large swollen mucilage cells. The powdered bark is sold in two forms: a coarse powder for use as poultices and a fine powder for making a mucilaginous drink. The disintegrated bark forms, when moistened, a flexible and spongy tissue, which is easily moulded into pessaries, teats, and suppositories. It is recommended that ten-year-old bark should be used. The powder should be greyish or fawncoloured. If dark or reddish, good results will not be obtained. The powdered bark is said to be often adulterated with damaged flour and other starchy substances. Habitat: The United States , Canada . Description: The Slippery Elm is a small tree abundant in various parts of North America . The branches are very rough, the leaves long, unequally toothed, rough with hairs on both sides, the leaf-buds covered with a dense yellow Wool. The flowers are stalkless. Constituents: The principal constituent of the bark is the mucilage contained in large cells in the bast. This mucilage is very similar to that found in linseed. It is precipitated by solutions of acetate and subacetate of lead, although not by alcohol The mucilage does not dissolve, but only swells in water and is so abundant that 10 grains of the powdered bark will make a thick jelly with an ounce of water. Medicinal Action and Uses: Demulcent, emollient, expectorant, diuretic, nutritive. The bark of this American Elm, though not in this country as in the United States an official drug, is considered one of the most valuable remedies in herbal practice, the abundant mucilage it contains having wonderfully strengthening and healing qualities. It not only has a most soothing and healing action on all the parts it comes in contact with, but in addition possesses as much nutrition as is contained in oatmeal, and when made into gruel forms a wholesome and sustaining food for infants and invalids. It forms the basis of many patent foods. Slippery Elm Food is generally made by mixing a teaspoonful of the powder into a thin and perfectly smooth paste with cold water and then pouring on a pint of boiling water, steadily stirring meanwhile. It can, if desired, be flavoured with cinnamon, nutmeg or lemon rind. This makes an excellent drink in cases of irritation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, and taken at night will induce sleep. Another mode of preparation is to beat up an egg with a teaspoonful of the powdered bark, pouring boiling milk over it and sweetening it. Taken unsweetened, three times a day, Elm Food gives excellent results in gastritis, gastric catarrh, mucous colitis and enteritis, being tolerated by the stomach when all other foods fail, and is of great value in bronchitis, bleeding from the lungs and consumption (being most healing to the lungs), soothing a cough and building up and preventing wasting. A Slippery Elm compound excellent for coughs is made as follows: Cut obliquely one or more ounces of bark into pieces about the thickness of a match; add a pinch of Cayenne flavour with a slice of lemon and sweeten, infusing the whole in a pint of boiling water and letting it stand for 25 minutes. Take this frequently in small doses: for a consumptive patient, about a pint a day is recommended. It is considered one of the best remedies that can be given as it combines both demulcent and stimulating properties. Being mucilaginous, it rolls up the mucous material so troublesome to the patient and passes it down through the intestines. In typhoid fever, the Slippery Elm drink, prepared as for coughs, is recommended, serving a threefold purpose, to cleanse, heal and strengthen, the patient being allowed to drink as much as desired until thirst has abated, and other remedies can be used. If the patient is not thirsty, a dose of 2 large tablespoonfuls every hour for an adult has been prescribed. The bark is an ingredient in various lung medicines. A valuable remedy for Bronchitis and all diseases of the throat and lungs is compounded as follows: 1 teaspoonful Flax seed, 1 OZ. Slippery Elm bark, 1 OZ. Thoroughwort, 1 stick Liquorice, 1 quart water. Simmer slowly for 20 minutes. Strain and add 1 pint of the best vinegar and 1/2 pint of sugar. When cold, bottle. Dose: 1 tablespoonful two or three times a day. In Pleurisy, the following is also recommended: Take 2 oz. each of Pleurisy root, Marsh Mallow root, Liquorice root and Slippery Elm bark. Boil in 3 pints of water down to 3 gills. Dose: 1/2 teaspoonful every half-hour, to be taken warm. As a heart remedy, a pint of Slippery Elm drink has been prescribed alternately with Bugleweed compound. Slippery Elm bark possesses also great influence upon diseases of the female organs. It is particularly valuable both medicinally and as an injection in dysentery and other diseases of the bowels, cystitis and irritation of the urinary tract. The injection for inflammation of the bowels is made from an infusion of 1 OZ. of the powder to 1 pint of boiling water, strained and used lukewarm. Other remedies should be given at the same time. An injection for diarrhoea may also be made as follows: 1 drachm powdered Slippery Elm bark, 3 drachms powdered Bayberry, 1 drachm powdered Scullcap. Pour on 1/2 pint of boiling water, infuse for half an hour, strain, add a teaspoonful of tincture of myrrh and use lukewarm. As an enema for constipation, 2 drachms of Slippery Elm bark are mixed well with 1 OZ. of sugar, then 1/2 pint of warm milk and water and an ounce of Olive Oil are gently stirred in. Injection for worms (Ascarides): 1/2 drachm Aloes powder, 1 drachm common salt, 1/2 drachm Slippery Elm powder (fine). When well mixed, add 1/2 pint warm water and sweeten with molasses, stirring well. Slippery Elm mucilage is also prescribed to be mixed with Oil of Male Fern (2 oz. of the mucilage to 1 drachm of the oil) as a remedy for the expulsion of tapeworm The Red Indians have long used this viscous inner bark to prepare a healing salve, and in herbal medicine a Slippery Elm bark powder is considered one of the best possible poultices for wounds, boils, ulcers, burns and all inflamed surfaces, soothing, healing and reducing pain and inflammation. It is made as follows: Mix the powder with hot water to form the required consistency, spread smoothly upon soft cotton cloth and apply over the parts affected. It is unfailing in cases of suppurations, abscesses, wounds of all kinds, congestion, eruptions, swollen glands, etc. In simple inflammation, it may be applied directly over the part affected; to abscesses and old wounds, it should be placed between cloths. If applied to parts of the body where there is hair, the face of the poultice should be smeared with olive oil before applying. In old gangrenous wounds, an excellent antiseptic poultice is prepared by mixing with warm water or an infusion of Wormwood, equal parts of Slippery Elm powder and very fine charcoal and applying immediately over the part. A very valuable poultice in cases where it is desirable to hasten suppuration or arrest the tendency to gangrene is made by mixing the Slippery Elm powder with brewer's yeast and new milk. (from A Modern Herbal by Mrs M Greave) Compound Bran poultice is made by mixing with hot vinegar equal quantities of wheaten Bran with Slippery Elm powder. This is an excellent poultice for severe rheumatic and gouty affections, particularly of the joints, synovitis etc. Herbal poultices, generally made from the bruised, fresh leaves of special herbs, are frequently mixed with Slippery Elm and boiling water sufficient to give the mass consistency. Marshmallow Ointment, one of the principal ointments used in herbal medicine, has a considerable proportion of Slippery Elm bark in its composition. It is made as follows: 3 oz. Marshmallow leaves, 2 OZ. Slippery Elm bark powder, 3 oz. Beeswax, 16 OZ. Lard. Boil the Marshmallow and Slippery Elm bark in 3 pints of water for 15 minutes. Express, strain and reduce the liquor to half a pint. Melt together the lard and wax by gentle heat, then add the extract while still warm, shake constantly till all are thoroughly incorporated and store in a cool place. The bark of Slippery Elm is stated to preserve fatty substances from becoming rancid. Actions and uses: demulcent, emollient, nutritive, anti-tussive, astringent; gastritis, gastric and duodenal ulcer - specific, enteritis, colitis, convalescent tonic. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus UNCARIA TORMENTOSA  CAT'S CLAW The parts used medicinally include the inner bark and root. U. tomentosa is used in nootropic drugs, as well as in treatment of cancer and HIV infection. It contains several alkaloids that are responsible for its overall medical effects, as well as tannins and various phytochemicals.[5] The chemotype of the plant determines the dominant type of alkaloid it produces, and thus its properties in vivo. One chemotype has roots which produce mostly the pentacyclic alkaloids that are responsible for the immune-strengthening effects desired by most consumers. The second chemotype produces tetracyclic oxindole alkaloids known as rhynchophylline and isorhynchophylline which counteract the immune-strengthening actions of the pentacyclic alkaloids, reduces the speed and force of the heart's contraction, and in high doses produce ataxia, lack of coordination and sedative effects.[4] Since U. tomentosa comes in at least these two different chemotypes, without chemical testing it is impossible to know which chemical compounds will predominate in a plant collected randomly from a natural setting. Some ingredients appear to act as anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anticancer agents.[5] Cat's Claw is used to treat intestinal ailments such as Crohn's disease, gastric ulcers and tumors, parasites, colitis, gastritis, diverticulitis and leaky bowel syndrome, while manufacturers claim that U. tomentosa can also be used in the treatment of AIDS in combination with AZT, the treatment and prevention of arthritis and rheumatism, diabetes, PMS, chronic fatigue syndrome, prostate conditions,[6] immune modulation,[7] Lyme disease[8] and systemic lupus erythematosus.[9] A 2005 review of the scholarly literature on Cat's Claw indicates there is supporting evidence toward its use in treating cancer, inflammation, viral infection and vascular conditions, and for its use as an immunostimulant, antioxidant, antibacterial and CNS-related agent.[5] Numerous investigations have been carried out to isolate and determine secondary metabolites of Uncaria tomentosa. So far, over fifty identified compounds have been already reported including oxindole alkaloids (speciophylline, mitraphylline, uncarine F, pteropodine, isomitraphylline, uncarine E), ursane type pentacyclic triterpenes with a variety of ursolic acid derivatives, quinovic acid glycosides, sterols and procyanidins. These compounds may be responsible for many pharmaceutical properties described in literature. Cat's claw contains ajmalicine, akuammigine, campesterol, catechin, carboxyl alkyl esters, chlorogenic acid, cinchonain, corynantheine, corynoxeine, daucosterol, epicatechin, harman, hirsuteine, hirsutine, iso-pteropodine, loganic acid, lyaloside, mitraphylline, oleanolic acid, palmitoleic acid, procyanidins, pteropodine quinovic acid glycosides, rhynchophylline, rutin, sitosterols, speciophylline, stigmasterol, strictosidines, uncarines, and vaccenic acid. Actions: adaptogen; immunostimulant, digestive tonic. Enhances phagocytosis. Crohn's disease, ulcers, asthma, arthritis, iritis, shingles, dysbiosis and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS, ME, FM); enhance overall immunity while increasing stamina; viral infections; enhance emotional stability - even in the midst of extreme stress, fight infections in AIDS patients and decrease the visible size of some skin tumours and cysts within two weeks; reduction in the side-effects of radiation and chemotherapy in cancer patients; fibromyalgia; adaptogen, anti-oxidant, anti-tumour, anti-microbial and anti-inflammatory properties; powerful cellular reconstructor; cancer, arthritis, gastritis, female hormonal imbalances. Indigenous use: The indigenous peoples of South and Central America have used U. tomentosa for medicinal purposes for two thousand years or more. Researchers have investigated the use of the plant by the Ashninka tribe of Peru, who use the plant as a general health tonic, contraceptive, anti-inflammatory agent for the gastrointestinal tract, and as a treatment for diarrhea, rheumatic disorders, acne, diabetes, cancer and diseases of the urinary tract.[10] Allergies: Individuals allergic to plants in the Rubiaceae family and different species of Uncaria may be more likely to have allergic reactions to Cat's Claw.[11] Reactions can include itching, rash and allergic inflammation of the kidneys. In one documented case, kidney failure occurred in a patient with Lupus erythematosus[12] but it is not known if this was due to an allergic reaction or another cause. Footnotes: 1. ^ Gattuso, M., Di Sapio, O., Gattuso, S. & Li Pereyra, E. (2004). Morphoanatomical studies of Uncaria tomentosa and Uncaria guianensis bark and leaves. Phytomedicine, 11, 213223. 2. ^ Piscoya J, Rodriguez Z, Bustamante SA, et al. Efficacy and safety of freeze-dried cat's claw in osteoarthritis of the knee: mechanisms of action of the species Uncaria guianensis. Inflamm Res. 2001;50:442448. 3. ^ Keplinger, K., Laus, G., Wurm, M., Dierich, M.P. & Teppner, Herwig. (1999). Uncaria tomentosa (Willd.) DC.Ethnomedicinal use and new pharmacological, toxicological and botanical results. Journal of Ethnopharmacology, 64, 2334. Available on-line as a PDF 4. ^ a b Nutrition Forum article by Varro E. Tyler on Cat's Claw (Warning: pop-ups) 5. ^ a b c Heitzman , M.E. , Neto, C.C., Winiarz, E., Vaisberg, A.J. & Hammon, G.B. (2005). Ethnobotany, phytochemistry and pharmacology of Uncaria (Rubiaceae). Phytochemistry, 66(1), 5-29. PMID 15649507 6. ^ NutraSanus article on Cat's Claw 7. ^ Information on Cat's Claw 8. ^ Treatment of Lyme disease with Cat's Claw 9. ^ Cat's claw used to treat Lupus erythematosus 10. ^ The Longwood Herbal Task Force article on Cat's Claw 11. ^ Intelihealth article discussing uses and dangers of Cat's Claw 12. ^ Hilepo JN, Bellucci AG, Mossey RT. (1977). Acute renal failure caused by 'cat's claw' herbal remedy in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus. Nephron, 77(3) pg. 361. References: * Germplasm Resources Information Network: Uncaria tomentosa * Rain-tree.com article on Cat's Claw discussing its properties and actions ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus VACCINIUM MYRTILLUS - BILBERRY FRUIT Synonyms: Whortleberry. Black Whortles. Whinberry. Trackleberry. Huckleberry. Hurts. Bleaberry. Hurtleberry. Airelle. Vaccinium Frondosum. Blueberries. Parts Used: The ripe fruit. The leaves. Habitat: Europe, including Britain , Siberia and Barbary . Actions and uses: eye disorders (poor vision, cataracts, glaucoma, macular degeneration). The active anthocyanoside flavonoids in bilberry strengthen the integrity of eye tissue, improve circulation to the eyes and increase oxygen and energy levels in the eye. Enhances circulation and blood vessel integrity throughout the body. Antioxidant. Description : V. myrtillus grows abundantly in our heathy and mountainous districts, a small branched shrub, with wiry angular branches, rarely over a foot high, bearing globular wax-like flowers and black berries, which are covered when quite ripe with a delicate grey bloom, hence its name in Scotland, 'Blea-berry,' from an old North Countryword, 'blae,' meaning livid or bluish. The name Bilberry (by some old writers 'Bulberry') is derived from the Danish 'bollebar,' meaning dark berry . There is a variety with white fruits. The leathery leaves (in form somewhat like those of the myrtle, hence its specific name) are at first rosy, then yellowish-green, and in autumn turn red and are very ornamental. They have been utilized to adulterate tea. Bilberries flourish best on high grounds, being therefore more abundant in the north and west than in the south and east of England: they are absent from the low-lying Cambridgeshire and Suffolk, but on the Surrey hills, where they are called 'Hurts,' cover the ground for miles. The fruit is globular, with a flat top, about the size of a black currant. When eaten raw, they have a slightly acid flavour. When cooked, however, with sugar, they make an excellent preserve. Gerard tells us that 'the people of Cheshire do eate the black whortles in creame and milke as in these southern parts we eate strawberries.' On the Continent, they are often employed for colouring wine. Stewed with a little sugar and lemon peel in an open tart, Bilberries make a very enjoyable dish. Before the War, immense quantities of them were imported annually from Holland , Germany and Scandinavia . They were used mainly by pastrycooks and restaurant-keepers. Owing to its rich juice, the Bilberry can be used with the least quantity of sugar in making jam: half a pound of sugar to the pound of berries is sufficient if the preserve is to be eaten soon. The minuteness of the seeds makes them more suitable for jam than currants. Constituents : Quinic acid is found in the leaves, and a little tannin. Triturated with water they yield a liquid which, filtered and assayed with sulphate of iron, becomes a beautiful green, first of all transparent, then giving a green precipitate. Medicinal Action and Uses : The fruits are astringent, and are especially valuable in diarrhoea and dysentery, in the form of syrup. The ancients used them largely, and Dioscorides spoke highly of them. They are also used for discharges, and as antigalactagogues. A decoction of the leaves or bark of the root may be used as a local application to ulcers, and in ulceration of the mouth and throat. The fruit is helpful in scurvy and urinary complaints, and when bruised with the roots and steeped in gin has diuretic properties valuable in dropsy and gravel. A tea made of the leaves is also a remedy for diabetes if taken for a prolonged period. Diarrhea and wounds: Bilberry ( Vaccinium myrtillus ) has been used in traditional European medicine for nearly a thousand years, primarily to treat diarrhea. Bilberry fruit contains high concentrations of tannins, substances that act as both an anti-inflammatory and an astringent. The latter quality in particular may help wounds heal more quickly. Bilberry is believed to help people with diarrhea by reducing the intestinal inflammation associated with the condition. Diabetes: Bilberry leaves have traditionally been used to control blood sugar levels in people with diabetes. A couple of modern day reports of a few individuals with type 2 (adult onset) diabetes as well as animal studies suggest that this traditional use may have merit. Rigorous scientific studies are needed. Antioxidants: A close relative of the cranberry, bilberry fruits contain flavonoid compounds called anthocyanidins. Flavonoids are plant pigments that have excellent antioxidant properties. This means that they scavenge damaging particles in the body known as free radicals and have been shown to help prevent a number of long-term illnesses such as heart disease, cancer, and an eye disorder called macular degeneration (a disease of the retina that can lead to blindness; see Visual Disturbances listed below). Animal studies have found that anthocyanidins may strengthen blood vessels, improve circulation, and prevent the oxidation of LDL ("bad") cholesterol, a major risk factor for atherosclerosis (plaque in blood vessels that leads to blockage and, therefore, heart attack and stroke). Research in people is needed. Chronic fatigue syndrome: Some experts propose that bilberry may relieve the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome because of its antioxidant properties. Ulcers: Studies in rats have found that anthocyanidins from bilberry fruits help prevent stomach ulcers caused by a variety of factors including stress, medications, and alcohol. Visual disturbances: Anthocyanidins found in bilberry fruits may also be useful for people with vision problems. During World War II, British fighter pilots reported that bilberries improved their night time vision and helped them quickly adjust to darkness. A recent study, however, comparing a bilberry extract of anthocyanidins to placebo in young men with normal vision did not confirm any improvement in night vision from this supplement. The study included 12 men. More research is required to determine whether the traditional stories of improved night vision from bilberry is scientifically true. Today, it is believed that anthocyanidins may help protect the retina, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye and sends nerve impulses to the visual areas of the brain. Studies conducted in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s suggest that the anthocyanidins contained in bilberry fruit preparations improve symptoms of a variety of visual disturbances including nearsightedness, cataracts, and macular degeneration. Other Species: V. arboreum , or Farkleberry. This is the most astringent variety, and both berries and root-bark may be used internally for diarrhoea, chronic dysentery, etc. The infusion is valuable as a local application in sore throat, chronic ophthalmia, leucorrhoea, etc. V. resinosum, V. damusum , and V. gorymbosum have properties resembling those of V. myrtillus . The Bog Bilberry ( V. uliginosum ) is a smaller, less erect plant, with round stems and untoothed leaves, greyish green beneath. Both flowers and berries are smaller than those of the common Bilberry. This kind is quite absent in the south and only to be found in mountain bogs and moist copses, in Scotland , Durham and Westmorland. The berries of both species are a favourite food of birds. The 'Huckleberry' of North America , so widely appreciated there, is our Bilberry - the name being an obvious corruption of 'Whortleberry.' Recipe for Bilberry Jam: Put 3 lb. of clean, fresh fruit in a preserving pan with 1 1/2 lb. of sugar and about 1 cupful of water and bring to the boil. Then boil rapidly for 40 minutes. Apple juice made from windfalls and peelings, instead of the water, improves this jam. To make apple juice, cover the apples with water, stew down, and strain the juice through thick muslin. Blackberries may also be added to this mixture. If the jam is to be kept long it must be bottled hot in screw-top jars, or, if tied down in the ordinary way, more sugar must be added. Bilberry juice yields a clear, dark-blue or purple dye that has been much used in the dyeing of wool and the picking of berries for this purpose, as well as for food, constitutes a summer industry in the 'Hurts' districts. Owing to the shortage of the aniline dyestuffs formerly imported from Germany, Bilberries were eagerly bought up at high prices by dye manufacturers during the War, so that in 1917 and 1918 a large proportion of the Bilberry crop was not available for jam-making, as the dyers were scouring the country for the little blue-black berries. ............................................ Cont / Details about the constituents and actions of the individual whole herbal powders contained in Godshaer Herbalist's ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus WITHANIA SOMNIFERA - ASHWAGANDHA - INDIAN GINSENG Ashwagandha is one of the versatile ayurvedic herbal remedies with adaptogenic, antistress, antianxiety, antioxidant, anticancer, immunity enhancing, rejuvenating and fertility and stamina enhancing properties. It benefits our system in so many different ways that it will be better to use the word 'versatile herb' for this botanical of ayurvedic medicine. People call it Indian Ginseng. Withania somnifera has been in use since thousands of years in Ayurveda. Most of its traditional uses have been validated by modern research in several ways. WS affects our mind and psychology and memory. Its effects are distinguished on nervous system and immune system. Traditional Uses Of Ashwagandha: Most of these properties and benefits are taken from the literature of Ancient Ayurvedic Medicine. 
				  Aphrodisiac Herb & Semen Quality Promoting Herb: This herb exerts its aphrodisiac action by being an herbal rejuvenative and nervine herb. It is able to tone up the nervous system additionally. The quality and quantity of semen is raised. Withania somnifera is equally effective in females. It is not a stimulant herb that give good result in the short term and are not a healthier choice for the long term. WS is a good choice for dysmenorrhea associated with physical weakness. Withania somnifera is herb of choice for promoting the strength of body. Its rejuvenative action is also famous. With these properties, it is used in muscle weakness, degenerative disorders like arthritis. It provides nutrition to all the seven tissue layers and so it is good for the whole body. Miscellaneous Actions: It is extolled in Ayurvedic medicine for Leucoderma or white patches, persons with lean and thin bodies, persons who are not maturing properly according to their age, height and weight; in edema, in tubercular infections as adjuvant. Ashwagandha, Aswagandha, Withania Somnifera, Indian Winter Cherry Clinical Research Based Ashwagandha Benefits: Ashwagandha Benefits Through Brain Chemicals: 1. GABA-mimetic activity having anxiolytic effect. 2. Inhibiting Cholinesterase and thereby retaining Acetylcholine for longer time. 3. Slowing down of tolerance of the analgesic effects of morphine. 4. Nootropic like effect in mice. 5. Induction of axon and dendrite outgrowth and resulting in neuritis regeneration and synaptic reconstruction. Ashwagandha As Immunity Boosting Herb: 1. Immunity stimulating effect through Macrophages. 2. Raised antibody titer against Bordetella pertusis strains (responsible for Diphtheria). 3. Protective effect in Cyclophosphamide induced myelosuppression. 4. Beneficial in Ageing and Copper induced lipid peroxidation. 5. WS helping in Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Ashwagandha As Adaptogenic And Anti-Stress Herb: 1. Comparative to Ginseng in Chronic stress models. 2. Protective effect in stress induced neuronal degeneration. 3. Helping to achieve better state to fight against stress. 4. Preventing stress related ulcer. Ashwagandha As Herbal Rejuvenative And Reproductive Aid: 1. As a great rejuvenative herb in Ayurvedic medicine. 2. Beneficial in degenerative disorders like arthritis, diabetes and hypertension. 3. Ashwagandha is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and it has the potential in cancer prevention and treatment. 4. Increasing Libido and sexual function. 5. Increasing the sperm count. 6. Supporting female reproductive system with increase in ovarian weight and increased folliculogenesis. Ashwagandha Offering A Potential Role In Cancer Therapy: 1. Anti-carcinogenic activity. 2. Growth inhibition of human tumor cell lines. 3. Counteracting mutagenic effect. 4. WS possessing anti-proliferative properties. 5. As a natural source of potent radiosensitizer or chemotherapeutic agent. 6. Useful in Ascitic Sarcoma. 7. Useful in Melanoma induced metastasis. 8. Supportive in Skin carcinoma in rats. 9. Supports DMBA induced Squamous cell carcinoma. Know more about these properties>>> 10. Enhancing cellular immune response to mitogens. 11. Reversing Paclitaxel induced Neutropenia. 12. Anti-granuloma, anti-oxidative and chemoprotective activity. Ashwagandha In Parkinson's And Alzheimer's Disease: 1. Presence of L-dopa in a herbal formulation with WS. 2. Cognition enhancing and memory improving activity through Cholinergic channels. 3. Mood stabilizer, Learning enhancement and memory retention. Ashwagandha As Free Radical Scavenger & Antioxidant: 1. Increasing the three natural antioxidants in rat's brain. 2. Immuno-stimulation through Nitric oxide (NO) production in Macrophage. 3. Dose dependent free radical scavenging and protective effect on DNA cleavage. 4. Useful in Iron overload and Lead toxicity. 5. Preventing Neuroleptic induced Extra pyramidal side effects. Ashwagandha As One Of The Best Herbal Remedies For Anxiety And Depression
				  : 1. WS is one of the best herbal remedies for anxiety and depression 2. Anxiolytic effect comparable to Lorazepam. 3. Antidepressant effect comparable to Imipramine. 4. Found nontoxic in doses up to 100 mg per kg of body weight. 5. As calming, anticonvulsant and antispasmodic effect. 6. Capacity to stimulate Thyroid function in female mice. Cardiovascular And Diabetic Protection With Ashwagandha: 1. Cardio-protection against ischemic and reperfusion injury. 2. Beneficial in Focal ischemia. 3. Supports anti-atherogenic activity in polyherbal formula. 4. Mild hypoglycemic, diuretic and anti-hypercholesterolemic effect. 5. Supportive in Streptozotocin induced diabetes. 6. Supportive in diabetes induced Cataract. 7. Supports diabetes induced oxidative damage in brain with Aloe vera. Miscellaneous Effects Of Ashwagandha: 1. Anti-inflammatory activity. 2. Anti-viral and antibacterial activity. 3. Curing the side effects of  fungicide. 4. Protective effect in CCl4 induced Hepatotoxicity. 5. Restoration of absorption of glucose in Jejunum similar to anti-inflammatory drug Oxyphenbutazone. 6. Antiulcer activity. Use Ashwagandha For: 1. Anxiety, Depression, Panic Disorder. 2. As Antioxidant & Free Radical Scavenger. 3. As Body building Aid. 4. For Weakness, Fatigue, Herbal Rejuvenation, Aphrodisiac. 5. As Nervine tonic, calming and antistress agent and adaptogenic herb. YUCCA SCHIDIGERA - YUCCA Yucca schidigera and spp. (Yucca leaves) - this desert plant appears to be of value in arthritis treatment. It is thought that the herb's benefit in joint disorders may stem from a reduction in bacterial toxins that would otherwise hinder cartilage repair. The Hopi Indians prized this herb as a natural cleanser (lots of saponins), relating to cure baldness. Weiner. Sapoginin - similar to Wild Yam hormones, natural source of progesterone; for bleeding of womb and menstrual disorders. Its asteroidal saponins act as an anticoagulant to resolve clumping of blood cells. Action: cardiac stimulant, anti-inflammatory (arthritis), diuretic, cholagogue (saponins), blood purifier. Shrinks tumours (anti-cancer). Uses: hormonal imbalance, varicose veins, acne, ulcers in mouth and skin, cleanses gall bladder, cateract. Yucca schidigera & Y. filamentosa FAMILY NAME: Agavaceae/ Lilliaceae COMMON NAME: Mojave yucca EVIDENCE FOR EFFICACY (HUMAN DATA) Clinical Trials Among a group of 59 patients, 78% of subjects with allergic rhinitis had positive skin prick test to at least one plant, the most frequent sensitization being Ficus benjamina, yucca, ivy and palm tree. Mahillon 2006 A clinical study on the effects of the blend of Yucca schidigera & Quillaja saponaria extracts on cholesterol levels in human's blood & gastrointestinal functions showed a decrease in total & LDL cholesterol levels in blood plasma of hyper-cholesterolemic patients with enhanced in GI symptoms. Kim 2003 A study on contact allergic dermatitis caused by 38 plants on 15 patients revealed that 16 plants including Yucca showed positive skin tests in these individuals. [Article in Croatian] Poljacki 1993 Observational Studies/Case Reports Occupational allergic contact urticaria to Yucca aloifolia, weeping fig (Ficus benjamina) and Spathiphyllum wallisii was reported in a case of atopic gardener in whom skin prick tests were positive to all three plants & IgE antibodies were found to weeping fig and spathe flower but not to Yucca. Kanerva 2001 [Allergy to yucca.] Munno 2001 Traditional and Folk Use A study on the availability of fruits and vegetables between racially segregated urban neighbourhoods of Brooklyn, New York revealed that with the exception of bananas, potatoes, okra and yucca, a lower proportion of predominantly black area stores carried fresh produce. Morland 2007 Use in skin disease by Catawba on David Winston's Herbal Therapeutic website. Taylor 1940 Monograph of Y. baccata on p. 49 and Y. glauca on p. 52 from Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians on Michael Moore's website. Robbins 1916 Monograph of Y. baccata on p.72 and Y. glauca on p.73 from Ethnobotany of the Zuni on Michael Moore's website. Stevenson 1908 See entry on arthritis in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on cough in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on rheumatism in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on skin ailments in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on hair loss in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on dandruff in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on sunstroke, cataracts, blindness in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on hair loss in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine See entry on rheumatism in the UCLA Online Archive of American Folk Medicine Type "yucca" (or the genus and species name for a specific species) in the search field of D. Moerman's Native American Ethnobotany Search for Yucca in Dr. Duke's Phytochem and Ethnobot DB SAFETY DATA Adverse Effects & Toxicity No Records Interactions No Records Contraindications No Records EVIDENCE OF ACTIVITY Animal Studies yucca extracts have anti-arthritic, anti-inflammatory & anti-protozoal effects. Active phytochemicals include steroidal saponins & polyphenolics (resveratrol, yuccaols A, B, C, D and E). Cheeke 2006 Effect of different dietary levels of Yucca schidigera powder on the performance, blood parameters and egg yolk cholesterol of laying quails revealed that Yucca powder supplementation decreased serum glucose, cholesterol triglyceride level in laying quails. Kaya 2003 Production of amines in equine cecal contents in an in vitro model of carbohydrate overload showed that fermentation of carbohydrate by equine cecal microbiota may lead to increased production of amines, however steroidal saponin (of Yucca schidigera extract) was without effect. Bailey 2002 A study on Ruminal metabolism in sheep of saponins from Yucca schidigera showed that ingested saponins were quickly hydrolysed in the rumen to free sapogenins. Flyen 2002 A study on Rumen fermentation & nitrogen balance of lambs fed diets of extracts with tannins & saponins showed that low tannin dose decreased bacteria count. Saponin supplementation (Yucca schidigera extract) & high tannin dose showed some potential to reduce ruminal ammonia concentration. Sliwiski 2002 Dietary manipulation by applying Yucca schidigera extract & anhydrous calcium chloride to reduce aerial ammonia concentrations in nursery pig facilities revealed that addition of Y. schidigera extract or calcium chloride to diet of nursery pigs reduced ammonia concentrations in nursery rooms. Colina 2001 A study to determine whether feeding activated charcoal, Yucca schidigera, & zinc acetate would ameliorate the frequency & odor characteristics of flatulence in dogs showed that these agents reduce malodor of flatus by altering the production of hydrogen sulfide in the large intestine. Giffard 2001 A study on the effect of Yucca schidigera on ruminal fermentation and nutrient digestion in heifers revealed a reduced ammonia concentration and Protozoal numbers in the rumen. Hristov 1999 [Effects of Yucca schdigera extract, Saccharomyces boulardii and enzyme supplementation of wheat-based diets on broiler performance and diet metabolisability.] Preston 1999 A study on the effects of Yucca shidigera extract and soluble protein on performance of cows and concentrations of urea nitrogen in plasma and milk revealed that Y. shidigera extract did not affect percentages or yields of milk components, ruminal NH3 N, or urea N in milk or plasma. Wilson 1998 A study on the effect of Yucca schidigera extract (YSE) on canine & feline fecal volatiles showed that several chemical compound classes present in fecal volatiles and their quantitation in cat indicated significant changes in the concentrations of several compounds after YSE treatment. Lowe 1997 A human panel which monitored effect of Yucca schidigera extract on canine & feline fecal aroma observed that addition of Yucca schidigera extract (YSE) products to canine or feline diets improved the character & reduced the intensity of fecal aroma. YSE treatment also increased Blood urea level. Lowe 1997a A 6-wk study was conducted to determine the effect of feeding diets containing an antibiotic, a probiotic, or yucca extract on daily gain, feed conversion ratio and urease activity and ammonia production in intestinal contents of broiler chicks was inconclusive. Yeo 1997 Studies conducted to determine the influence of yucca extract on ruminal digestion, fermentation, and ammonia patterns using ruminally and duodenally cannulated dairy cows revealed that Yucca extract did not affect ruminal digestibilities of OM and ADF, and ruminal NH3, pH, or VFA. Wu 1994 A study on the effects of carbadox, copper, or Yucca shidigera extract on growth performance and visceral weight of young pigs revealed no differences. Yen 1993 Yucca saponin fed in a concentration of 63 ppm to turkey poults at 6 to 14 weeks of age did not significantly improve weight gains, feed conversion, or digestive coefficients. Dziuk 1985 Pharmacodynamics A study on comparative anti-platelet and antioxidant properties of polyphenol-rich extracts from berries of Aronia melanocarpa, seeds of grape, & bark of Yucca schidigera in vitro revealed that all these extracts reduced platelet adhesion, aggregation in blood platelets. Olas 2008 A study on effects of phenolic constituents from Yucca schidigera bark on Kaposi's sarcoma cell proliferation, migration & PAF synthesis revealed that anti-inflammatory properties of Yucca schidigera are due to resveratrol & Yuccaols & provide evidence for anti-tumor & anti-invasive action. Balestrieri 2006 A study on the effect of 12 Plant extracts including Yucca on in vitro rumen microbial fermentation by incubating for 24 h in diluted ruminal fluid revealed that including Yucca 6 extracts had no effect on rumen microbial fermentation. Busquet 2006 A study on the effects of 6 plant extracts including Yucca at different pH on in vitro rumen microbial fermentation in beef cattle revealed that at pH 7.0 Yucca decreased ammonia N concentration; at pH 5.5 it increased total VFA concentration & decreased the ratio of acetate:propionate. Cardozo 2005 Insect growth regulatory effects of some extracts & sterols from aerial parts of Myrtillocactus Geometrizans & methanol extracts of Cedrela salvadorensis and Yucca periculosa were tested against the pests Spodoptera frugiperda & Tenebrio molitor and their insecticidal effects were confirmed. Cspedes 2005 Antifungal activity of steroidal glycosides yuccaloeside B and yuccaloeside C from Yucca gloriosa was investigated in vitro against a panel of human pathogenic fungi, yeasts as well as dermatophytes and filamentous species and their antifungal action was confirmed. Favel 2005 The phenolic compounds of Yucca schidigera namely trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene (trans-resveratrol), trans-3,3',5,5'-tetrahydroxy-4'-methoxystilbene, and yuccaols A and C caused inhibition of blood platelet adhesion and secretion. Olas 2005 A study on the effects of natural plant extracts garlic, cinnamon, yucca, anise, oregano, or pepper on ruminal protein degradation and fermentation profiles in continuous culture showed modified ruminal fermentation. Cardozo 2004 Insect growth inhibition seen with tocotrienols and hydroquinones from Roldana barba-johannis are comparable in activity to those known natural insect growth inhibitors such as gedunin and methanol extracts of Cedrela salvadorensis and Yucca periculosa. Cspedes 2004 A study to examine whether yuccaol A, B or C could affect cytosolic inducible nitric oxide synthase protein expression and nitric oxide (NO) generation in vitro revealed that Yuccaol C when added to the culture medium 1h before lipo-polysaccharide-stimulation can reduce NO release. Marzocco 2004 Phenolic constituents isolated from Yucca schidigera bark with unusual spirostructures, named yuccaols D and E exhibited antioxidant activity in Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity (TEAC) assay and the coupled oxidation of beta-carotene and linoleic acid (autoxidation) assay. Piacente 2004 Resveratrol and other phenolic compounds from the bark of Yucca schidigera inhibited free radical generation in blood platelets which may be beneficial in protecting against cardiovascular diseases when hyperactivity of platelets is observed. Olas 2003 The methanol extract from the bark of Yucca periculosa afforded 4,4'-dihydroxstilbene, resveratrol and 3,3',5,5'-tetrahydroxy-4-methoxystilbene which had growth regulatory activity against the Fall Army worm and these compounds also demonstrated scavenging properties. Torres 2003 Comparison of the inhibitory effects of different phenolic compounds from Yucca schidigera in thrombin-induced platelet aggregation revealed that phenolics showed stronger antiplatelet actions than resveratrol. These compounds also inhibited thrombin-induced enzymatic platelet lipid peroxidation. Marsch-Martinez 2002 Comparison of total antioxidant content of 30 widely used medicinal plants of New Mexico revealed that antioxidant content of the aqueous extract of Yucca sp. plant root is only 27 micromol/g where that of Ilex paraguensis Mate leaf is 972 micromol Trolox equivalent per gram dry weight. VanderJagt 2002 The use of Yucca schidigera on giardiosis was studied in vitro, in an adherence inhibition assay & in vivo, on trophozoites(intestinal) or cysts(fecal) in infected gerbils and lambs receiving oral doses of whole or butanol-extracted yucca powder. There were effects on trophozoites but not on cysts. McAllister 2001 The study on effect of herbal drugs on Leishmania Spp. found ethanolic extract of Yucca filamentosa showed strongest leishmanicidal activity (100% inhibition at 5 microg/ml). The bioactivity-guided fractionation led to isolation of 3 components (Yuccasaponins MC 1--3). Plock 2001 A saponin fraction from Yucca schidigera exhibited growth-inhibitory activities against certain food-deteriorating yeasts, film-forming yeasts & dermatophytic yeasts & fungi. From this fraction, many new anti-yeast monodesmosidic spirostanol saponins were isolated & their structures elucidated. Miyakoshi 2000 Effect of steroidal saponin (SAP) from Yucca schidigera extract on ruminal bacteria and fungi were investigated in pure culture studies finding that the ruminal bacteria differed in their responses to SAP. Wang 2000 A study on the effect of Quillaja saponaria saponins and Yucca schidigera plant extract on growth of Escherichia coli showed that these compounds have the potential to modulate microbial growth in natural and artificial fermenters. Sen 1998 [Application of saponins in foods and cosmetics: saponins of Mohave yucca and Sapindus mukurossi.] Tanaka 1996 A study on the influence of Yucca shidigera extract on ruminal ammonia concentrations and ruminal microorganisms revealed that it is unlikely for Y. shidigera extract to influence ammonia concentration in the rumen directly, but its saponins have antiprotozal properties. Wallace 1994 Yucca leaf protein (YLP) n inhibitor of tobacco mosaic virus isolated from the leaves of Yucca recurvifolia Salisb. stops the protein synthesis in herpes simplex virus-infected cells and inhibits HSV-1 virus replication as well as HSV-2 and human cytomegalovirus. Hayashi 1992 An aquo-alcoholic extract of flowers of Yucca glauca showed antitumor activity against B16 melanoma in mice. Systematic fractionation led to separation of two galactose containing polysaccharides with activity against B16 melanoma in mice but not against L1210 or P388 leukemias. Ali 1976 Analytical Chemistry An analysis of methanol extract of Yucca gloriosa revealed the presence of 5 phenolic derivatives - Gloriosaols A-E and these compounds exhibited strong antioxidant activity as measured by the TEAC assay. Bassarello 2007 A new steroidal saponin, yuccalan, from leaves of Yucca smalliana was isolated by a bioassay linked fractionation method & its structure elucidated by spectroscopic techniques, including IR, MS, 1D & 2D 1H-NMR, & 13C-NMR. It showed antifungal activities against Rhizoctonia & Fusarium. Jin 2007 Nutrient & antinutritional/toxic factors present in edible flowers consumed in Mexico- Agave salmiana, Aloe vera, Arbutus xalapensis, Cucurbita pepo, Erythrina americana, Ery.caribaea, Euphorbia radians & Yucca filifera were determined. Saponins were present in A. salmiana and Y. filifera. Sotelo 2007 Investigation of spectrophotometrically determined substances in Yucca extract by GC/MS, TLC and on-column injection GC revealed that the total amount of sapogenin estimated by GC was approximately 2% - similar to that measured by spectrophotometry. Uematsu 2004 Eight steroidal saponins have been isolated from Yucca schidigera Roezl. trunk, and their structures were established by spectral (MS and NMR) techniques. These included three novel furostanol glycosides and five known spirostanol glycosides. Oleszek 2001 Five phenolic constituents were identified in Yucca schidigera bark, & their structures were established by spectral(FABMS & NMR)experiments. These include 2 known stilbenes, resveratrol and trans-3,3',5,5'-tetrahydroxy-4'-methoxystilbene, as well as 3 novel compounds, yuccaols A, B, & C. Oleszek 2001a Structure elucidation of a new gitogenin-based steroidal saponin that has a strong leishmanicidal activity similar to preparations used in clinical practice was isolated by bioactivity-guided fractionation of the ethanolic extract of Yucca filamentosa L. leaves. Plock 2001 A spectrophotometric method was developed for the determination of saponin in Yucca extract or its preparation for food additive use. A saponin fraction of Yucca extract was prepared by column chromatography which was converted into a sapogenin and measured at 430 nm absorbance. Uematsu 2000 From ethanolic extract of influorescence of Yucca aloifolia a new spirostanol glycoside has been isolated & characterized. Kishor 1992 Eight new steroidal glycosides, tentatively named YS-VI, -VII, -VIII, -IX, -X, -XI, -XII and -XIII were isolated from the caudex of Yucca gloriosa along with P-1, YG-2 and YG-3 previously obtained from flowers. The structures of five of these compounds were elucidated. Nakano 1991 [High-pressure liquid chromatographic separation of steroidal sapogenins isolated from Yucca aloifolia L.] Sener 1987 [Structure of steroid glycosides from the roots of Yucca filamentosa L.] [Article in Russian] Lazurevskii 1975 [Sterols of Yucca glauca tissue cultures and seeds.] Stohs 1975 [Sapogenins of Yucca glauca tissue cultures.] Stohs 1974 [A phytochemical investigation of Yucca schottii (Liliaceae).] Backer 1972 [The steroid sapogenin constituents of Agave americana, A. variegata and Yucca gloriosa.] Dewidar 1970 [An evaluation of Yucca mohavensis as a source of food grade saponin.] Oser 1966 [Effects of enzymes on Yucca glauca Nutt. and other steroid-yielding monocotyledons.] Blunden 1965 [A histochemical and ultrastructural study of yucca seed proteins.] Horner 1965 [Aloifoline, a new oncolytic antibiotic isolated from Yucca aloifolia.] Sokoloff 1964 [On The Sterol Sapogenins In The Stalks And Leaves (Fresh And Fermented) Of Yucca Guatemalensis Baker.] [Article in French] Panouse 1963 [Studies on the yucca species and its steroid sapogenin content. 1. Steroid sapogenin of Yucca aloefolia l.] [Article in German] Tomowa 1963 [Extraordinary abundance of ascorbic acid in plant leaves from Guiana (cassava, yucca, agave).] [Article in French] Floch 1957 [Steroidal sapogenins. XXXVII. Association of sapogenins and unsaturated sterols in Agave, Dioscorea, and Yucca.] Williaman 1956 [Studies on the steroidal components of domestic plants. IV. Constituents of Yucca species. (1). ] Takeda 1954 Genetics & Molecular Biology A study on the phylogeny of yuccas revealed limited monophyly of traditional taxa, suggesting rapid recent diversification, introgression, or non-monophyletically circumscribed taxa. Pellmyr 2007 It is suggested that floral scent plays a key role in obligate pollination. Strong conservation of floral scent composition in two allopatric yuccas mutualism between yuccas and yucca moths has been case for several million years. Svensson 2006 The phenolics from the bark of Yucca Schidigera: Yuccaols A, B, & C, trans-resveratrol and trans - 3.3',5.5'-tetrahydroxy -4'-methoxystilbene were tested by Ames method with Salmonella typhimurium strains TA97, TA98, TA100, TA102 & found to be non-toxic and non-mutagenic. Czeczot 2003 A study on the origin of a complex key innovation in an obligate insect-plant mutualism between yuccas and yucca moths revealed that the tentacle evolved quickly through expression of the genetic template for the galea at an apical growth bud on the first segment of the maxillary palp. Pellmyr 2002 To establish the origin of yucca-yucca moth association, exhibiting forty million years of mutualism, a molecular clock for the moths based on mtDNA was proposed which indicates that colonization of yuccas had occurred by 41.5 +/- 9.8 million years ago. Pellmyr 1999 The antimutagenic activity of methanolic extract of Yucca schidigera against Trp-P-1 was demonstrated by Ames assay using Salmonella typhimurium TA98. The antimutagenic compound was identified to be 3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene. Uenobe 1997 Phylogenic evidence for reversal of an obligate mutualism is shown in which within the yucca moth complex, distinct cheater species derived from obligate pollinators inflict a heavy cost on their yucca hosts by laying their eggs but not pollinating the yucca. Pellmyr 1996 The association of species of yucca & their pollinating moths is considered one of 2 classic cases of obligate mutualism between floral hosts & their pollinators. It is shown that modern Yucca-yucca moth relationship was developed independently more than once by colonization of a new host. Bogler 1995 In complex mutualism between yuccas & moths that pollinate their flowers the truly coevolved features of the interaction appear to be the evolution of active pollination by the moths, the associated morphological structures in moths for carrying pollen, & exclusion of copollinators by yuccas. Pellmyr 1992 Microbodies containing bipyramidal crystalline nucleoid inclusions occur within every cortical cell in roots of Yucca torreyi. The functions of these unspecialized peroxisomes may be based upon cytochemical detection of their partial enzyme complement. Kausch 1984 A study on Opuntia phaeacantha and Yucca baccata revealed that Crassulacean acid metabolism predominates as the major carbon pathway of these plants, which do not facultatively utilize the reductive pentose phosphate cycle of photosynthesis as the primary carboxylation reaction. Szarek 1976 Cultivation, Conservation & Ecology A study on pattern and timing of diversification in Yucca (Agavaceae) revealed that specialized pollination such as plant-moth pollination mutualism did not escalate rates of diversification. Smith 2008 Yucca6, a dominant mutation in Arabidopsis, affects auxin accumulation and auxin-related phenotypes as it is involved in a Trp-dependent auxin biosynthetic pathway and acts as a functional member of the YUCCA family with unique roles in growth and development. Kim 2007 Micropropagation of Yucca valida a source of steroidal saponins was done to generate isogenic or clonal lines. 17 such clonal lines propagated showed that variability found between plants derived from seeds were also manifested in these clonal lines but with less internal coefficient of variation. Arce-Montoya 2006 The interaction between scape-feeding bogus yucca moth, Prodoxus decipiens & one of its yucca hosts, Yucca filamentosa, by comparing female reproductive success of plants with & without moth larvae was studied and showed that P. decipiens influences nitrogen distribution in Y. filamentosa. Althoff 2004 To see how mutualisms function in community settings a model of pairwise interactions was used between plants & pollinating seed parasite insects (e.g.,yuccas & yucca moths) in the presence of flower-feeding insects (florivores) or insects that parasitize seeds but fail to pollinate (exploiters). Bronstein 2003 Additional to known highly coevolved pollination mutualism accompanied by reciprocal diversification seen among genera, Ficus (Moraceae) and Yucca (Agavaceae), a monoecious tree genus, Glochidion (Euphorbiaceae), was shown to exhbit mutualism with moth genus, Epicephala (Gracillariidae). Kato 2003 Effect of pollinator-inflicted ovule damage on floral abscission in the yucca-yucca moth mutualism was studied in Yucca filamentosa and it was observed that that physical damage to ovules caused by ovipositing is sufficient to explain selective fruit abscission. Marr 2003 Coevolved mutualisms between senita cacti, yuccas & their respective obligate pollinators, benefit both species involved in interaction. It is hypothesized that fruit abortion in yucca & senita could be the function of limiting pollinator abundance & increasing fruit production. Holland 2002 Phylogenetic studies have revealed that Tegeticula yuccasella is a complex of at least 13 distinct species, 8 of which are specific to 1 yucca species. Moths in closely related genus Prodoxus also specialize on yuccas but do not pollinate and their larvae feed on different plant parts. Althoff 2001 Yucca glauca is a C(3) evergreen rosette species locally common in the C(4)-dominated grasslands of the central Great Plains and Y. glauca's morphological similarities to desert species (steeply angled leaves, evergreen habit) may be critical to its success in grasslands. Maragni 2000 Pollen dispersal in obligate pollination mutualism between Yucca filamentosa and Tegeticula yuccasella was investigated raising question why moths often deposit self-pollen to the detriment of their offspring & comparison of yucca-yucca moth interaction with other obligate pollinator mutualisms. Marr 2000 A study revealed that Callose synthesis in spirostanol (saponin from Yucca) treated carrot cells is not triggered by cytosolic calcium, cytosolic pH or membrane potential changes. Messiaen 1995 High CO(2) concentrations, in excess of 2%, were observed during the day in a range of taxonomically separated plants (Opuntia., Agave., Yucca, Ananas, Aloe., Cattleya sp. and Phalanopsis sp.) and below ambient air concentrations were observed at night. Cockburn 1979 Cultivation information from the USDA Forest Services's National Seed Laboratory publication, Woody Plant Seed Manual ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS FOR ORIGINAL RESEARCH BY: Dr.J.Mohanasundaram, MD, PhD.    March 2008 ZINGIBER OFFICINALIS - GINGER ROOT Zingiber officinalis (Ginger root, Sheng Jiang) Actions and uses: stimulant, stomachic, anti-emetic, carminative, flatulent dyspepsia, rubefacient, diaphoretic; circulatory stimulant, stimulant to yang, dissolves phlegm, dyspepsia, colic, nausea, vomiting cold hands and feet, weak pulse, cough with profuse sputum. Travel sickness. Stimulant, carminative, anti-spasmodic, rubefacient, diaphoretic, emmenagogue. Indications: Ginger may be used as a stimulant of the peripheral circulation in cases of bad circulation, chilblains and cramps. In feverish conditions, Ginger acts as a useful diaphoretic, promoting perspiration. As a gargle it may be effective in the relief of sore throats. Externally it is the base of many fibrositis and muscle sprain treatments. Ginger has been used world-wide as an aromatic carminative and pungent appetite stimulant. In India , and in other countries with hot and humid climates, ginger is eaten daily and is a well-known remedy for digestion problems. Its wide-spread use is not only be due to flavor, but to the anti-oxidant and anti-microbial effects, necessary for preservation of food, essential in such climates. Temperature: pungent, warm; Meridian : HE, LU, SP, ST, KI. Part Used: The rootstock. Constituents: The whole complex of primary plant constituents and a characteristic array of secondary plant constituents are present. Pharmacologically important constituents include: Volative oil, containing mainly zingiberene and bisabolene, pungent principles; a mixture of phenolic compounds. Actions: diaphoretic (for Wind and Cold), anti-emetic, expectorant; common cold with cough and thin, white phlegm; vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal fullness; pungent, warm. Ginger in the diet lowers cholesterol levels and platelet aggregation. In the latter it is better than garlic. ================================= ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowder Plus In a Nut Shell Some of the Essential Infomation about the Herbs in ABC Daily Powder Unfinished  please return later for completed In a Nut Shell! Bilberry - Diarrhea and wounds: Bilberry fruit contains high concentrations of tannins, substances that act as both an anti-inflammatory and an astringent. Antioxidants: This means that they scavenge damaging particles in the body known as free radicals and have been shown to help prevent a number of long-term illnesses such as heart disease, cancer, and an eye disorder called macular degeneration (a disease of the retina that can lead to blindness; Animal studies have found that anthocyanidins may strengthen blood vessels, improve circulation, and prevent the oxidation of LDL ("bad") cholesterol, a major risk factor for atherosclerosis (plaque in blood vessels that leads to blockage and, therefore, heart attack and stroke). Research in people is needed. Chronic fatigue syndrome. Ulcers: Studies in rats have found that anthocyanidins from bilberry fruits help prevent stomach ulcers caused by a variety of factors including stress, medications, and alcohol. Visual disturbances: Anthocyanidins found in bilberry fruits may also be useful for people with vision problems. Today, it is believed that anthocyanidins may help protect the retina, the nerve layer that lines the back of the eye and sends nerve impulses to the visual areas of the brain. Studies conducted in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s suggest that the anthocyanidins contained in bilberry fruit preparations improve symptoms of a variety of visual disturbances including nearsightedness, cataracts, and macular degeneration. Guarana is well known for its stimulant action. Guarana is reputed to increase mental alertness and fight fatigue and also to increase stamina and physical endurance; it combats premature aging, detoxifies the blood and is useful for flatulence, obesity, dyspepsia, fatigue and for arteriosclerosis; it is used for cellulite due to its lipolytic and vasodilation action. Suma root - Nutritionally, Suma root contains 19 different amino acids, a large number of electrolytes and trace minerals including iron, magnesium, cobalt, silica, zinc and the vitamins A, B-1, B-2, E, K, and pantothenic acid. The high content of germanium accounts for its properties as an oxygenator at the cellular level. The root of Suma is composed of up to 11% saponins. These saponins include a group of novel chemicals called pfaffosides as well as pfaffic acids, glycosides and nortriperpenes. These saponins have clinically demonstrated the ability to inhibit cultured tumour cell melanomas and help to regulate blood sugar levels. The pfaffosides and pfaffic acid derivatives in Suma have been patented as antitumour compounds in two Japanese patents. Propolis - 16 amino acids present in Propolis at more than 1%. Of the total amino acids present, arginine and proline together made of 45.8%. A further 8 amino acids were present in traces. Propolis stimulates tissue regeneration is due to the presence of arginine because of its role in stimulating the production of nucleic acid. Around 14 mineral trace elements are found in Propolis, of which iron and zinc are the most common. Other minerals found include gold, silver, caesium, mercury, and lead. Propolis clears lead from the body by attracting it to itself. Organic compounds include ketones, lactones, quinones, steroids, benzoic acid and esters, vitamins and sugars. Psyllium seed  soothing, gentle laxative action, used fo IBS, mucus colitis, chronic diarrhoea, detoxifier. Rhubarb root - It has a truly cleansing action upon the gut, removing debris, mucus and parasites, and then astringing the gut contents with antiseptic properties. Cat's claw - Some ingredients appear to act as anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anticancer agents. Cat's Claw is used to treat intestinal ailments such as Crohn's disease, gastric ulcers and tumors, parasites, colitis, gastritis, diverticulitis and leaky bowel syndrome, while manufacturers claim that U. tomentosa can also be used in the treatment of AIDS in combination with AZT, the treatment and prevention of arthritis and rheumatism, diabetes, PMS, chronic fatigue syndrome, prostate conditions, immune modulation, Lyme disease and systemic lupus erythematosus. A 2005 review of the scholarly literature on Cat's Claw indicates there is supporting evidence toward its use in treating cancer, inflammation, viral infection and vascular conditions, and for its use as an immunostimulant, antioxidant, antibacterial and CNS-related agent. Ginger root - A whole complex of primary plant constituents and a characteristic array of secondary plant constituents are present. Pharmacologically important constituents include: volative oil, containing mainly zingiberene and bisabolene, pungent principles; a mixture of phenolic compounds. Actions: diaphoretic (for Wind and Cold), anti-emetic, expectorant; common cold with cough and thin, white phlegm; digestive regulator, abdominal fullness; pungent, warm. Ginger in the diet lowers cholesterol levels and platelet aggregation. In the latter it is better than garlic. [In a Nut Shell unfinished, sorry - return later for expansion of this summary] Main article completed 17 February 2011 back to ABC Daily Powder page Home Prescriptions To make a donation to Godshaer Herbalist via PayPal click here Our herbal tonic medicines are carefully prepared on a personal and individual basis for your healing by medical herbalist Alan Hopking MA MNIMH MRCHM FINEH.
  Only whole herbs are used in our herbal medicines. Nothing else is added. If you have symptoms which you consider might be helped with herbal medicine please contact herbal practitioner Alan Hopking for a friendly confidential professional consultation. Telphone using our  freephone 0500 90 96 97. Once you have received your herbal prescription you can contact Alan Hopking at any time for more free advice (preferably by email). When you have completed your bottle of herbal medicine and if you want a repeat prescription  you are requested to phone or email so that your progress can be assessed and adjustments made if necessary so that there is no break in your treatment. To order or re-order, click here . UK Government Dept - MHRA General advice to consumers on the use of herbal remedies from the Medicines
				  Healthcare products Regulatory Agency From the website of the Medicines Healthcare products Regulatory Agency ( www.mhra.gov.uk ) Department of Health, UK  Remember that herbal remedies
				  are medicines. As with any other medicine they are likely to have an effect on the body and should be used with care.  Herbal
				  remedies may sometimes interact with other medicines. This
				  makes it particularly important to tell your doctor or pharmacist if you
				  are taking a herbal remedy with other medicines such as prescribed medicines
				  (those provided through your doctor or dentist).  Treat with caution
				  any suggestion that a herbal remedy is '100% safe' or is 'safe because
				  it is natural'. Many plants, trees, fungi and algae can be poisonous to
				  humans. It is worth remembering that many pharmaceuticals have been developed
				  or derived from these sources because of the powerful compounds they contain.
				  Any medicine, including herbal remedies, which have an effect on the body
				  should be used with care.  Treat
				  with caution any herbalist or other person who supplies herbal
				  remedies if they are unwilling or unable to provide written
				  information, in English, listing the ingredients of the herbal remedy they
				  are providing.  If
				  you are due to have a surgical operation you should always
				  remember to tell your doctor about any herbal remedy that you
				  are taking.  Anyone
				  who has previously experienced any liver complaint, or any
				  other serious health complaint is advised not to take any herbal
				  remedy without speaking to their doctor first. PRECAUTIONS: Pregnant/Breast-feeding
				  mothers Few conventional medicines have been established as
				  safe to take during pregnancy and it is generally recognised
				  that no medicine should be taken unless the benefit to the
				  mother outweighs any possible risk to the foetus. This rule
				  should also be applied to herbal medicinal products. However,
				herbal products are often promoted to the public as being natural and
				  completely safe alternatives to conventional medicines. Some
				  herbal ingredients that specifically should be avoided or used
				  with caution during pregnancy. As with conventional medicines,
				  no herbal products should be taken during pregnancy unless
				  the benefit outweighs the potential risk. Volatile Oils Many herbs are
				  traditionally reputed to be abortifacient and for some this
				  reputation can be attributed to their volatile oil component.(6)
				  A number of volatile oils are irritant to the genito-urinary
				  tract if ingested and may induce uterine contractions. Herbs
				  that contain irritant volatile oils include ground ivy, juniper, parsley,
				  pennyroyal, sage, tansy and yarrow. Some of these oils contain the terpenoid
				  constituent, thujone, which is known to be abortifacient. Pennyroyal oil
				  also contains the hepatotoxic terpenoid constituent, pulegone. A case of
				  liver failure in a woman who ingested pennyroyal oil as an abortifacient
				  has been documented. Uteroactivity A stimulant or spasmolytic action on
				  uterine muscle has been documented for some herbal ingredients
				  including blue cohosh, burdock, fenugreek, golden seal, hawthorn,
				  jamaica dogwood, motherwort, nettle, raspberry, and vervain. Herbal Teas
				  Increased awareness of the harmful effects associated with excessive tea
				  and coffee consumption has prompted many individuals to switch to herbal
				  teas. Whilst some herbal teas may offer pleasant alternatives to tea and
				  coffee, some contain pharmacologically active herbal ingredients, which
				  may have unpredictable effects depending on the quantity of
				  tea consumed and strength of the brew. Some herbal teas contain laxative
				  herbal ingredients such as senna, frangula, and cascara. In general stimulant
				  laxative preparations are not recommended during pregnancy and the use
				  of unstandardised laxative preparations is particularly unsuitable. A case
				  of hepatotoxicity in a newborn baby has been documented in which the mother
				  consumed a herbal tea during pregnancy as an expectorant. Following analysis
				  the herbal tea was reported to contain pyrrolizidine alkaloids
				  which are known to be hepatotoxic. Breast-feeding mothers A drug substance
				  taken by a breast-feeding mother presents a hazard if it is
				  transferred to the breast milk in pharmacologically or toxicologically
				  significant amounts. Limited information is available regarding
				  the safety of conventional medicines taken during breast-feeding.
				  Much less information exists for herbal ingredients, and generally
				  the use of herbal remedies is not recommended during lactation. Paediatric
				  Use Herbal remedies have traditionally been used to treat both
				  adults and children. Herbal remedies may offer a milder alternative
				  to some conventional medicines, although the suitability of
				  a herbal remedy needs to be considered with respect to quality, safety
				  and efficacy. Herbal remedies should be used with caution in children and
				  medical advice should be sought if in doubt. Chamomile is a popular remedy
				  used to treat teething pains in babies. However, chamomile is known to
				  contain allergenic sesquiterpene lactones and should therefore be used
				  with caution. The administration of herbal teas to children needs to be
				  considered carefully and professional advice may be needed. Perioperative
				  use The need for patients to discontinue herbal medicinal products
				  prior to surgery has recently been proposed. The authors considered
				  eight commonly used herbal medicinal products (echinacea, ephedra,
				  garlic, ginkgo, ginseng, kava, St Johns Wort, valerian).
				  On the evidence available they concluded that the potential
				  existed for direct pharmacological effects, pharmacodynamic
				  interactions and pharmacokinetic interactions. The need for physicians
				  to have a clear understanding of the herbal medicinal products
				  being used by patients and to take a detailed history was highlighted.
				  The American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) has advised
				  patients to tell their doctor if they are taking herbal products
				  before surgery and has reported that a number of anaesthesiologists have
				  reported significant changes in heart rate or blood pressure in some patients
				  who have been taking herbal medicinal products including St Johns
				  Wort, ginkgo and ginseng. MCA is currently investigating a
				  serious adverse reaction associated with the use of ginkgo
				  prior to surgery. In this case, the patient who was undergoing
				  hip replacement experienced uncontrolled bleeding thought to
				  be related to the use of ginkgo. From the website of the Medicines
				  Healthcare products Regulatory Agency ( www.mhra.gov.uk ) Department
				  of Health, UK Quick links menu Order by email Herbal health tonics you thought you'd never find Site Map Index Consultations with Alan Hopking Price List HerbShield Caisse-ACT ABC Daily Herbal NutriPowderPlus Stevia Tonics - A - Z Illnesses - A - Z Herbs - A - Z Acne Adrenals Ageing Alcoholism Allergies Aloe Products Anaemia Anorexia Anti-Virals Aphrodisiacs Arthritis Asthma Astragalus Atherosclerosis Bitter Melon Bitters Blood Cleansers Blood Pressure Blood Root Blood sugar Body Building Bone Density Brain Breast Milk Breasts Breathing Bronchishield Butchers Broom Cancer Cancer Herbs Candida Catarrh Cats Claw Cellulite Cellulitis Chai Tea of Dreams Chaparral Chinese Bitters Cholesterol Coeliac Colds and Flu Colitis Colon Cleansing Constipation Consultation Cough Curcuma Cystitis Cysts Dang Sheng Root Depression Detox - Total Diabetes Diarrhoea Dupuytrens Echinacea Endometriosis Energy Epilepsy Caisse/Essiac Eyes Fertility Fibroids Flax Seed Oil Flushes FM Forgetfulness Frozen Shoulder Fungal Infections Gall Stones Glandular Disease Glandular Fever Golden Seal Gout Gymnema Hair Women Hair Men Hayfever Headache Head Lice Heart Heart Burn Helicobacter Hepatitis C Herbal Coffee IBS Immune system Incontinence Interstitial Cystitis Joint Pain Kidney Labyrinthitis Laxatives Leaky Gut Leg Ulcer Lemon Detox Lice Liver Detox Liver Flush Lumbago Lungs Lymph Cleanse Malaria ME Menopause Mental Acuity Migraine Milk Thistle Mistletoe Morning Sickness Mouth Muscles Nasal Polyps Neem Nerves Neurological Noni Pain Palpitation Pancreas Pau D'Arco Parasites Parkinsons Pigmentation Piles Pimples PMS Polyps Potency - Men Premature Ejac Prevention is Better than Cure (PBC) Prolapse Propolis Prostate PROST Method Psoriasis Red Clover Ringworm Rosacea SAD Scabies Sciatica Sex Drive - W Sexual Stimulants Sheep Sorrel Shingles Sight Skin Problems Sleep Smoking Snoring Soap/Shampoo Powder Spleen Sports Support Spots Stevia - sugar replacement Stress Sutherlandia Sweating Swine Flu Synergy Teeth and Gums Thorowax Thrush Thyroid Tinnitus Tiredness Travel Sickness Ulcer - Stomach Ulcers - Leg Ulcerative Colitis Uric Acid Urinary Disorders Urticaria Varicose Veins Viruses Warts Water Detox Method Water Retention Weight Wheatgrass Willow Herb Worms Worry lots more Contact details Post Alan N Hopking MA MNIMH MRCHM HERBACTIVE ABC Advanced Botanical Centre of Medicine 5 Station Road New Milton Hampshire BH25 6HN UK Telephone +44 (0) 1425 839280 Freephone UK 0500 909697 Email alanhopking@herbactive.co.uk for general information: info@herbactive.co.uk Road and Rail HERBACTIVE Clinic and Shop is near the New Milton Train Station Take the train from London Waterloo to Bournemouth, Poole or Weymouth and get off at New Milton; turn left at Station Road; 2 mins walk to Herbactive. Buses from Bournemouth or Lymington take Wilts and Dorset X1 or X2 to Whitefield Road, New Milton (2-3 minutes walk over the rail bridge). Buses from Winchester and Salisbury take Wilts and Dorset X3 to Bournemouth Hospital then take X1 or X2 to Whitefield Road, New Milton (2-3 minutes walk over the rail bridge). Directions and maps How to Pay You can pay by card (by phone), BACS, or by PayPal Secure (see below) or by Western Union Money Transfer (see below). To make your order click here This service is 100% secure and encrypted and confidential. To use PayPal do the following: 1. Email your order. Please say what country you live in. 2. I will then email you back the exact amount to pay, including p&p (shipping). We take all card payments. There is a 3.89% handling charge for credit cards and PayPal. For UK debit cards  there is no charge. With PayPal: Pay for purchases in your selected currency. 
Payment is automatically converted to your desired currency. 
No need to hold a balance in another currency to send a payment. We accept payments in: Pounds Sterling US Dollars Euros Swiss Francs Swedish Krona Danish Krone Norwegian Krone Polish Zloty Hungarian Forint Czech Koruna Australian Dollars New Zealand Dollars Canadian Dollars Yen Hong Kong Dollars Singapore Dollars If your country or currency is not listed you can send cash (money transfer service) from any country in the world via Western Union Bank (see http://www.ukmoneytransfer.com ) , first email us for the total UK pounds you need to send; or simply tell us your credit card details by telephone and we'll do the rest. Disclaimer and pledge As a professional herbal practitioner I am in practice in conformity with the laws of England and the 1968 Medicines Act. The UK legislative provisions for herbal medicine are to be found in the Medicines Act 1968, Section 12, paragraphs 1 & 2, and Section 56, paragraphs 1 & 2. Section 12:1 specifies exemption for herbal medicines from licensing provided that they are supplied subsequent to private personal consultation. Section 12:2 exempts herbal medicines provided that they are produced according to standard traditional, non-industrial methods. It also specifies that no written claims may be made for the use of the remedy. Therefore at Godshaer Herbalist no claims about any medical condition regarding the herbal medicines prescribed by Alan Hopking are made. Indeed, be it a doctor, surgeon or herbal practitioner, the successful outcome of our treatments cannot with any certainty be predicted, let alone guaranteed. Further, following UK and EU law, the information on this web site attach no medical claims  and no claims concerning the medicinal herbs mentioned relating to any medical conditions listed. All the herbal prescriptions are unlicensed and made by Alan N. Hopking at the address of Godshaer Herbalist for patients of Alan N. Hopking. I pledge that,  I shall do all I can, using my knowledge of herbal medicines and natural treatment, to help you regain your deserved health. Alan Hopking MA MNIMH MRCHM FINEH All our herbal medicines are made from the raw herb at our dedicated clinic and dispensary at Godshaer Botanicals. We collect the fresh herbs, or import the dry herb. They are organic if at all possible. We only use whole herbs. We are against the use of standardized extracts, or the concentration of herbs by adding more of the active constituent. We recommend you do not use such products in any form (dry, in capsules or as tincture extracts). To use our herbal tonics you should follow the prescribed dose. Any side effects or problems should be reported to us.  MMVII Godshaer Herba