</info/parents>; rel="canonical",</node/483>; rel="shortlink"
X-UA-Compatible: IE=Edge,chrome=1
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Children with epilepsy | Epilepsy Action Skip to main content No account? Register here Login or register Epilepsy Action Search form Search “ We exist to improve the lives of everyone affected by epilepsy ” Main Menu Home Advice and information Get involved Donate News Professionals Research About us You are here Home › Epilepsy advice and information › Children More in this section What is epilepsy? Caring for a baby or young child when you have epilepsy Children Children with epilepsy About epilepsy in children About seizures Tests and diagnosis Treatment and management of epilepsy Risks of having epilepsy Unfair treatment and the law Learning and education Coming to terms with your child’s epilepsy Supporting your child with epilepsy Children's section Epilepsy in newborn babies Learning, behaviour and epilepsy Depression and epilepsy Developing epilepsy in later life Driving and epilepsy Education Entitlements and benefits for people with epilepsy Epilepsy and Travel abroad Epilepsy and learning disabilities Epilepsy information for prisons Epilepsy, osteoporosis and osteomalacia Epilepsy: diagnosis, treatment and healthcare in the UK Epileptic seizures explained Flu and epilepsy Identity jewellery Inheritance Me and my dad Memory Mobile phones and epilepsy Photosensitive epilepsy Safety advice for people with epilepsy Sports and leisure Stress and epilepsy Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) Support Syndromes The Disability Discrimination Act The Equality Act and epilepsy Vagus nerve stimulation therapy in epilepsy Work and epilepsy Women and epilepsy Young people and epilepsy The Epilepsies: You, Epilepsy and the NICE Guideline Epilepsy Action Information Reviewers (EAIRs) Children with epilepsy In this section Introduction About epilepsy in children About seizures Tests and diagnosis Treatment and management of epilepsy Risks of having epilepsy Unfair treatment and the law Learning and education Coming to terms with your child’s epilepsy Supporting your child with epilepsy The future Our thanks Epilepsy Action would like to thank Bernie Concannon, paediatric specialist nurse in epilepsy, Birmingham Children’s Hospital, UK, for reviewing Children and epilepsy. Bernie Concannon has declared no conflict of interest. Introduction Around one in 240 children under 16 in the UK has epilepsy. Most children with epilepsy enjoy a full and active life. With a few sensible safety precautions, they are able to do everything that their friends do. Sometimes, however, epilepsy is more complex, and children need specialist help and support. If you have questions about your child’s epilepsy, these web pages are for you. Updated December 2011 To be reviewed December 2013 Comments: read the 5 comments or add yours Comments Hello, I just wanted to say thank you to this website as it has helped me understand a little bit more about epilepsy and the kind of seizures their are. My daughter was diagnosed at 14 and she is now 18 and she has now got an placement at a nursery, so it just goes to show that just because you have this illness doesn't mean you can't four fill your dreams :) Submitted by Lara on 5 October, 2010 - 20:31 reply My 10 year old has recently been diagnosed with focal epilepsy, she has had two full blown seizures (one yesterday).  She is very angry and resentful about it all and refuses to confront it.  We are still coming to terms/trying to adjust with this life-changing thing and I am looking to find a network or support group for parents with children with epilepsy in the South East of England.  Can anyone point me in the right direction? Much obliged. This site has been very useful.  thank you. Submitted by SCW on 21 November, 2010 - 14:05 reply Our lovely son Nathan was diagnoised with epilepsy, 3 weeks ago, just 2 weeks after his 4th birthday. We are totally devestated and so sad, but most of all terrified. I sleep in his room every night, waking often to make sure he is still breathing and also so that I can make sure he is alive. I am so terrified that I am going to lose him and don't know how or when I will ever loose that fear or not be able to sleep in with him. Am i being irrational? This is all so new and overwhelming to us and I feel like I am living on a knife edge always waiting for that moment when I walk into a room and find him unresponsive and floppy. i think I am traumatised by the last seizure (generalised tonic clonic). It was so frighterning and I thought he was going to die. Please tell me - do these feelings get better with time. The anxiety is overwhelming to me and I love my son so much. Submitted by Louise on 12 February, 2011 - 16:24 reply My youngest son had his first major fit in April 2010 aged 18 months. Little did we know the journey we were all about to embark on. Our consultant is lovely,he recommended this site to us and doesn't leap straight into daily Meds.   My son is still uncontrolled, but we have Meds we give when it's a particularly bad/prolonged fit. This works well for us at present.  I think the other 3 children we have, in particular our 5 year old have had a tough time learning to adjust and this is something that should be covered I think.  We are grateful this site and it's Facebook page are there. Submitted by Anna on 21 May, 2011 - 18:53 reply Hello, my son is 4 and began with myclonic epilepsy aged 3, having multiple daily seizures. As other parents in this position will know, the options (currently) aren't good: medicines with side effects, ketogenic diet with side effects (plus impacticality) or leave uncontrolled with risks of accidents or status epilepticus. Searching for a better solution, I found a lesser known scientific paper suggesting calcium / vitamin D could be a first line of defence. So I started him on Haliborange Calcium Vitamin D Softies (one daily) and, surprisingly, one week later his seizures stopped (from maybe 40 a day to none). He has remained on the Softies for 9 months now and I have only seen 2 seizures in that time when he had a fever, the rest of the time none at all. That suggests he still has the condition but it is controlled. I cannot prove that the Softies have controlled the epilepsy, but wanted to share this here, as I'm sure other parents in a similar position may at least wish to try these harmless supplements before going down the NHS-approved other routes. If anyone else has the same success with this, I would be keen to hear about it on this forum. Submitted by John on 14 July, 2011 - 14:00 reply Question about your epilepsy? Use our email helpline service -- your question will be sent directly to our trained helpline advisors who will reply to you. If you post a question about your epilepsy as a comment on a page, it may not be replied to so please use the email helpline service . Want to talk to other people with epilepsy? Take a look at forum4e our online community for people with epilepsy . Anyone with epilepsy over the age of 16 can join, from anywhere in the world. Comment about this page? We welcome feedback on the content of our website. If you have any comments about the page you were reading, then please complete the form below. All comments are reviewed by a moderator before appearing on the site. Once the comment appears, your name and comment will be seen by other visitors to the site. Comments will be edited or deleted if they are offensive, libellous, slanderous, abusive, commercial or irrelevant. Comments may also be edited or deleted if they are not relevant to the page on which they are entered. By making a comment through the website, you allow us to use the comment in our publicity without using your name.  If we would like to use your name, we will email you to get your permission. Your name * E-mail * The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Comment * Text format Filtered HTML Plain Text CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What is the first word in the phrase "income dog monkey charity"? * Contact Author Your name * Email * Comment * Epilepsy Action privacy policy CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What is the second word in the phrase "queen charity children adult"? * Website Survey Tell us what you think of our website Print this page Social connect Connect with us: on Facebook Follow us: on Twitter Donate I would like to donate £ More Ways to Donate Epilepsy helpline UK Freephone 0808 800 5050 More helpline contact details Shop Support us by visiting our shop Share this page: Twitter G+ Email Multi Facebook Forum4e Favourites Add this page to favourites Login or register to create favourites. Currently there are no links. Edit Footer Message Epilepsy Action is the working name of British Epilepsy Association, a registered charity (No. 234343) and a company limited by guarantee (No. 797997) in England. Epilepsy Action is certified as a quality provider of health and social care information by The Information Standard . © Epilepsy Action 2012 - Drupal development by Ixi