</info/pyridoxine>; rel="canonical",</node/451>; rel="shortlink"
X-UA-Compatible: IE=Edge,chrome=1
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Pyridoxine dependency | Epilepsy Action Skip to main content No account? Register here Login or register Epilepsy Action Search form Search “ We exist to improve the lives of everyone affected by epilepsy ” Main Menu Home Advice and information Get involved Donate News Professionals Research About us You are here Home › Epilepsy advice and information › Syndromes More in this section What is epilepsy? Caring for a baby or young child when you have epilepsy Children Depression and epilepsy Developing epilepsy in later life Driving and epilepsy Education Entitlements and benefits for people with epilepsy Epilepsy and Travel abroad Epilepsy and learning disabilities Epilepsy information for prisons Epilepsy, osteoporosis and osteomalacia Epilepsy: diagnosis, treatment and healthcare in the UK Epileptic seizures explained Flu and epilepsy Identity jewellery Inheritance Me and my dad Memory Mobile phones and epilepsy Photosensitive epilepsy Safety advice for people with epilepsy Sports and leisure Stress and epilepsy Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) Support Syndromes Aicardi syndrome Angelman syndrome Benign epilepsy of childhood with occipital paroxysms (BECOP) Benign myoclonic epilepsy in infancy Benign neonatal convulsions Benign partial epilepsy in infancy Benign rolandic epilepsy Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) Early myoclonic encephalopathy Electrical status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep (ESESS) Epilepsy with myoclonic absences Eyelid myoclonia with absences (EMA) Gelastic Epilepsy Generalised epilepsy with febrile seizure plus (GEFS+) Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) Landau Kleffner Syndrome Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome Migrating partial epilepsy in infancy Myoclonic astatic epilepsy (Doose syndrome) Ohtahara Syndrome Panayiotopoulos syndrome Pyridoxine dependency Rasmussen syndrome Rett syndrome Ring chromosome 20 syndrome Severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (SMEI) Sturge-Weber syndrome Unverricht-Lundborg syndrome West syndrome (infantile spasms) The Disability Discrimination Act The Equality Act and epilepsy Vagus nerve stimulation therapy in epilepsy Work and epilepsy Women and epilepsy Young people and epilepsy The Epilepsies: You, Epilepsy and the NICE Guideline Epilepsy Action Information Reviewers (EAIRs) Pyridoxine dependency Pyridoxine (also called vitamin B6, which is one of the B-complex vitamins) dependency is a very rare condition that has been recognised for about 50 years. The condition is also sometimes called pyridoxine responsive epilepsy. Although it is not exactly known how rare the condition really is, it probably occurs in no more than one in 200,000 - 400,000 children. The condition usually presents in the first few days or weeks of life but may present in the week or two before the baby is born (called in-utero seizures) or, rarely as late as 15 or 18 months of age. The seizures may be all types - myoclonic, clonic, tonic, tonic-clonic or even infantile spasms. It is in fact quite common for an infant with pyridoxine-dependency to have many different types of seizures, all at the same time. Occasionally young children who present with infantile spasms in the first year of life (and these children have a type of epilepsy called West Syndrome) will respond to pyridoxine but this does not always mean that they will have pyridoxine-dependency. In view of this, a number of doctors - particularly in Japan and some Eastern European countries - will give pyridoxine as the very first drug when an infant presents with infantile spasms. This is just in case they may have pyridoxine-dependency. However, less than one in ten or even one in 20 of children who present with infantile spasms as their first or only seizure type actually turn out to have genuine pyridoxine-dependency. Clearly this means that at least nine or nine and a half out of ten of children with infantile spasms do not have pyridoxine-dependency. Recent advances Until very recently there were no specific tests that could diagnose pyridoxine-dependency including blood and urine tests or brain scans (either a computerised tomography (CT), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan). However, there is now a blood test that may show a biochemical or even genetic abnormality in a number of children with this condition. However, it is not yet clear if these abnormal tests will be found in every child with pyridoxine dependency. The electroencephalogram (EEG) is usually very abnormal in children with pyridoxine-dependency and may even look like the EEG pattern in infants who have West Syndrome who have infantile spasms. This EEG pattern is called hypsarrhythmia. At the present time, the diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency can only really be made by what is called a drug trial, or ‘therapeutic challenge’. A therapeutic challenge This means the following: when a child is thought to have the condition, pyridoxine (vitamin B6) is given for a period of time, varying from a few days, or ideally, for three or four weeks. If the child’s seizures continue after a three or four week trial of pyridoxine, then it is very unlikely that they have pyridoxine-dependency. If the child’s seizures show a dramatic reduction or stop altogether, then the pyridoxine is stopped immediately (not withdrawn gradually first). If the child’s seizures then recur, the pyridoxine is restarted. If the seizures then stop again after the pyridoxine has been restarted, then this makes the diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency very likely. The pyridoxine is then continued, either indefinitely or certainly for the next 12 months before deciding whether to undertake another ‘therapeutic challenge’ by stopping the drug. If the blood tests mentioned above have shown the biochemical or genetic abnormality that have been found in this condition, then there will probably be no need to give a second therapeutic challenge with pyridoxine. Pyridoxine is given by mouth, usually twice a day. Sometimes the drug may be injected into a vein while the child is having an EEG to see if the EEG becomes normal during or immediately after the injection. Clearly this must only be carried out in specialist centres. It is also important to understand that even if the EEG remains abnormal during or just after the injection of pyridoxine, this does not necessarily exclude a diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency. For this reason most specialists (paediatric neurologists) would recommend giving pyridoxine by mouth for at least three or four weeks - before then deciding whether to continue the drug for longer. The dose of pyridoxine is based on the child’s weight; some children need only a small dose, while others need quite high doses, depending on how quickly the seizures stop after pyridoxine is prescribed. Pyridoxine is given either once or twice a day. When given by mouth, pyridoxine has very few long-term side effects. More recently, a drug called pyridoxal phosphate has been used when pyridoxine has not been helpful. Pyridoxal phosphate is similar to but not the same as pyridoxine. This should be discussed with your hospital doctor. A very rare condition Most, if not all children who have pyridoxine-dependency do not respond to the commonly used antiepileptic drugs, such as carbamazepine, sodium valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate, phenobarbital, phenytoin or diazepam. In view of this and the fact that, once diagnosed, pyridoxine-dependency is so easily treated, most specialists would always consider giving a three or four week course (a ‘therapeutic trial’) of pyridoxine to all children who present with epileptic seizures in the first year of life and where the seizures do not respond to the usual antiepileptic drugs. However, it is again important to emphasise that despite this approach pyridoxine-dependency remains a very rare condition, and a very rare cause of epilepsy in children. In 16 years at Alder Hey I have often thought about the diagnosis and given a trial of pyridoxine and also pyridoxal phosphate but have never been able to make a definite diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency Possible causes It is not entirely clear why pyridoxine-dependency causes epilepsy. However the most likely explanation is that pyridoxine is used by the body to make a substance within the brain called gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA). GABA is one of a group of chemicals found within the brain called neurotransmitters which are very important in epilepsy. The other most important neurotransmitter in the brain is one called glutamic acid, which is an excitatory neurotransmitter. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter - which means that it has a very important function in inhibiting or preventing epileptic seizures. If pyridoxine is not being used properly (as occurs in pyridoxine-dependency), then GABA will not be present in sufficient amounts. As a result seizures will not be prevented, and are likely to occur very frequently. The inheritance factor Pyridoxine-dependency is a genetic disorder - which means that it is inherited. The pattern of inheritance is what is called ‘autosomal recessive’, which means that both parents are carriers of the disorder but do not have the disorder themselves. It is the recent blood test mentioned above that may be very helpful in understanding more about the genetics or inheritance factor in pyridoxine dependency. Support organisation Contact a Family, 209-211 City Road, London, EC1V 1JN, telephone 0808 808 3555. www.cafamily.org.uk Epilepsy Action is indebted to Dr Richard Appleton, a Consultant Paediatric Neurologist who specialises in children’s epilepsy, and to Dr Rachel Kneen, Consultant Paediatric Neurologist and Dr Stewart Macleod, Specialist Registrar in paediatric neurology, at Alder Hey at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, Liverpool, who have kindly prepared this information. Because this page is written by an epilepsy healthcare professional and not by Epilepsy Action, it falls outside the requirements of the Information Standard. This is why the Information Standard logo is not shown on this page. This information is exempt under the terms of The Information Standard . Updated October 2011 To be reviewed October 2013 Comments: read the 1 comments or add yours Comments Hi, My son (8 years old) is pyridoxine dependent. I just recently put a website up telling his story, if you're interested check it out: http://b6kid.com Thanks! Submitted by David on 20 August, 2010 - 19:47 reply Question about your epilepsy? Use our email helpline service -- your question will be sent directly to our trained helpline advisors who will reply to you. If you post a question about your epilepsy as a comment on a page, it may not be replied to so please use the email helpline service . Want to talk to other people with epilepsy? Take a look at forum4e our online community for people with epilepsy . Anyone with epilepsy over the age of 16 can join, from anywhere in the world. Comment about this page? We welcome feedback on the content of our website. If you have any comments about the page you were reading, then please complete the form below. All comments are reviewed by a moderator before appearing on the site. Once the comment appears, your name and comment will be seen by other visitors to the site. Comments will be edited or deleted if they are offensive, libellous, slanderous, abusive, commercial or irrelevant. Comments may also be edited or deleted if they are not relevant to the page on which they are entered. By making a comment through the website, you allow us to use the comment in our publicity without using your name.  If we would like to use your name, we will email you to get your permission. Your name * E-mail * The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Comment * Text format Filtered HTML Plain Text CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What is the fourth word in the phrase "open dog fox beans"? * Contact Author Your name * Email * Comment * Epilepsy Action privacy policy CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What is the fourth word in the phrase "look zebra name seizure"? * Website Survey Tell us what you think of our website Download booklet Social connect Connect with us: on Facebook Follow us: on Twitter Donate I would like to donate £ More Ways to Donate Epilepsy helpline UK Freephone 0808 800 5050 More helpline contact details Shop Support us by visiting our shop Share this page: Twitter G+ Email Multi Facebook Forum4e Favourites Add this page to favourites Login or register to create favourites. Currently there are no links. Edit Footer Message Epilepsy Action is the working name of British Epilepsy Association, a registered charity (No. 234343) and a company limited by guarantee (No. 797997) in England. Epilepsy Action is certified as a quality provider of health and social care information by The Information Standard . © Epilepsy Action 2012 - Drupal development by Ixi