
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 03:04:53 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Delirium Tremens | Herbal home remedy and Natural Cure for Delirium Tremens Family Health Man's Health Illnesses Home Remedies Herbal Medicines Drugs Injuries First Aid Medical Test Delirium tremens and Beer - Symptoms, Causes and Treatment of Delirium Tremens Tweet What is delirium tremens? Delirium-tremens is a very severe disease which is occur to the person who is totally depend on the alcohol and it is caused by the abruptly stopping the use of alcohol. It may increase because of head injury, infection, or illness to them who were totally dependent of alcohol. This disease occur because when a person starts drinking the way of his body or brain get change and when he stops drinking it again get change therefore that person suffer from this condition. Symptoms of delirium tremens Feeling jumpy, nervous and Feeling shaky Anxiety Fatigue Alcohol-withdrawal seizures Headache and sweating Loss of appetite Irritability or easily excited Mood changes rapidly Nightmares Tremors or shakes Treatment of delirium tremens Treatment may require maintenance of a sedated   state for a week or more until withdrawal is complete. Benzodiazepine   medications such as diazepam are often useful to provide sedation. Diazepam is   also useful to treat seizures as well as anxiety and tremors. Medicines called benzodiazepines can lessen alcohol withdrawal   symptoms. Commonly used medicines in this group include diazepam (Valium),   chlordiazepoxide (Librium) and lorazepam (Ativan). Do not try to withdraw from heavy, prolonged use of alcohol   without help. If you have symptoms of the DTs, someone should take you to the   emergency room at a hospital. Prevention of delirium tremens Avoid or minimize the use of alcohol. Treat   known alcoholism appropriately. Obtain prompt medical treatment for symptoms of   alcohol withdrawal. Also, look into alcohol detoxification or "detox" centers in   your area, as well as alcohol rehabilitation centers or "rehab" facilities. Eat and drink healthy foods and fluids as much as possible. Follow your doctor's advice for treatment of any other medical   problems. Tweet Man Health Addison's disease Adrenoleukodystrophy Altitude sickness Anaphylaxis Angina Anthrax Balanitis Balanoposthitis Bradykinesia Benign prostatic hypertrophy Caisson Bartonellosis Bilharziasis Bovine encephalopathy spongiform Bradycardia Bronchopneumonia Bronchiectasis Brucellosis Bubonic plague Buerger disease Catalepsy Delirium tremens Dysarthria Popular Articles Weight machine Index Stretch marks Benign prostatic hypertrophy Endometriosis symptom Dandruff Hyperventillation Cervical ectropion Complex ovarian cyst Clozaril Health Tip Foods high in substances called purines increase levels of uric acid in the blood, and foods to be avoided include poultry, strawberries, shellfish, game, caffeine and alcohol. Recent Blog Articles Amniocentesis And Your Baby’s Health Pregnancy Benefits From Good Maternity Clothes Challenges of Pregnancy Fatigue Getting Pregnant Fast Safely Recognizing Pregnancy Inside Total-Health-Care.com Family Health - Knee Care | Eye Care | Elderly Health | Toddler | Food Safety | Sexual Health | Man's Health Illnesses - Asthma | Diabetes | Cancer | Blood Pressure | Vitiligo | Backpain | Raynaud’s Disease | Depression | Snoring Medicine - Drugs | First Aid | Medical Test | Injuries Natural medicine - Home Remedies | Herbal Medicines Beauty - Hairstyles | Hair Removal New - Get Rid of Stuffs | How to Stuffs | Exercise Slide Show | Dog Care Coming Soon - Pet Health Connect With Total-Health-Care.com Contact us Subscribe to Health RSS Feeds BLOG Q & A NEWS Free Email Newsletter enter your email address for free newsletter Home || © total-health-care.com . All rights reserved. Disclaimer: Total-Health-Care.com is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional medical services. Any medical or other decisions should be made in consultation with your qualified health care provider. We will not be liable for any complications, injuries or other medical accidents arising from or in connection with t