
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-ServedBy: web127
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:54:08 GMT
Connection: close
Server: SSWS
Vary: Accept-Encoding

ALOE VERA GEL (Aloe barbadensis, Aloe vera)  - Important Herbs from Around the World - Tillotson Institute of Natural Health Search Herbal Basics Welcome Principles and Traditions Growth, Manufacture, Quality How to Evaluate Information Safety and Regulation Actions and Interactions The Language of Herbs Understanding Herbs Consultations Herb Encyclopedia Important Herbs from Around the World Disease Treatments Treatment - The Big Picture Specific Diseases/Patterns/Syndromes Alan &  Naixin's Clinic Clinic Overview Staff Directions Order medicine Send email to Chrysalis References & Downloads References Downloads Links One Earth Herbal Sourcebook Login squarespace login « ALFALFA  (Medicago sativa) | Main | AMERICAN GINSENG ROOT (Panax quinquefolium ) » ALOE VERA GEL (Aloe barbadensis, Aloe vera) Latin: Aloe barbadensis Aloe vera Sanskrit: Kumari Chinese: Lu hui WHAT IT DOES: Aloe vera gel is bitter in taste, cold in action and mucilaginous.  It heals and soothes skin irritations. RATING: Gold (external use) SAFETY ISSUES: Not for internal
use when pregnant, if suffering from any intestinal or kidney disease,
or during menstruation.  Do not use in children under the age of
12, and internal use is not recommended in excess of 8-10 consecutive
days.  Completely safe when used externally. STARTING DOSAGE: • External use: apply liberal quantities of fresh gel from plant leaves topically I will only be talking here about the external use of aloe vera
gel.  (I believe there are other safer, more effective herbs that
have the same internal applications as aloe.) Aloe vera is a plant that
should be kept in every home, affording instant access to the fresh gel
from its leaves for treating sunburn, minor burns, skin wounds, insect
bites, acne and bruises.  It is one of the best household items
for parents to keep on-hand to educate children about using plants
safely as medicine. Aloe vera gel can benefit patients suffering from severe skin disorders
such as psoriasis, frostbite and radiation burns (Miller et al., 1995;
Klein et al., 1988).  The healing effects of this plant result
from a complex set of anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, moisturizing,
emollient, and anti-bacterial properties. click tab on left to see references Posted on Friday, December 24, 2004 at 01:18PM by posted by Dr. Tillotson in Herbal encyclopedia | Comments Off View Printer Friendly Version Email Article to Friend Copyri