
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
X-Robots-Tag: noarchive
Last-Modified: Fri, 09 Mar 2012 01:59:42 GMT
ETag: "1331258382000|#public|en|||0"
Expires: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 01:34:35 GMT
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 01:34:30 GMT
Cache-Control: public, max-age=5
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Server: GSE

Supplements - Charles Loops, DVM Home What is Homeopathy? Remedies & Nosodes Vaccination Information Vaccination Recommendations Articles Vaccinosis and Chronic Disease Lymphosarcoma Osteosarcoma Arthritis Remedies Nutrition Information Diet for Cats Diet for Dogs Chronic Disease Diet for Dogs Supplements FAQs Links Telephone Consultations by Appointment Only Hours: 9-4 (EST) Mon., Tues., Wed., & Fri. (closed Thursdays) Phone: (919) 542-0442 Fax:      (919) 542-0535 charles.loops@gmail.com Supplements Now 
          that cancer has been diagnosed or suspected as the most likely diagnosis, 
          you are trying to make some difficult and important decisions in regards 
          to your companion’s future health and well-being. If you are considering 
          surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation, or a combination of several western 
          medical modalities, you are probably looking for other supportive therapies 
          to maximize quality of life. If you are pursuing a completely natural 
          approach, you are looking for as many effective therapies as possible 
          to prolong your companion’s life and preserve their quality. The information out there is confusing and complicated. Every practitioner 
          or expert seems to have a different opinion or suggestion. Some supplements 
          and medications seem to conflict with one another and philosophies of 
          therapy vary widely. In general, veterinary oncologists or cancer specialists 
          have very little knowledge about alternative approaches to cancer. Many 
          times their information is not only lacking but just incorrect. Most people 
          end up searching the internet and finding the wealth of information that 
          presents itself. The difficulty is wading through articles and articles 
          about different supplements that all seem to cure cancer. Many are difficult 
          to find or very expensive, but the real issue becomes, does this have 
          any merit in the treatment of my animal companion? For most animals, especially with cats, we must be somewhat selective 
          about what medicines or supplements we can expect to give them. One must 
          be careful not to cause side-effects that will create quality of life 
          issues and also, most companions will have a breaking point, where only 
          so many supplements can be given before they begin refusing our efforts 
          to medicate them or hide things in their food. Our relationship and bond 
          with them can also suffer because of the constant harassment medicating 
          causes. This is especially true with feline companions as they will begin 
          to hide every time they see you coming! So it becomes important to choose not only the therapy for dealing with 
          this cancer but choosing which supplements and diets we are going to entice, 
          or force, our companions to eat. We want to be selective and make choices 
          that are beneficial and that either fight the cancer effectively or improve 
          the quality of life for our animal friends. Whether your treatment decisions involve surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation, 
          I feel homeopathic treatment will benefit in some way the prognosis of 
          your companion. Call the office for an appointment. There will also be 
          selective supplements from the list below that would be supportive or 
          helpful also. With cases where a homeopathic approach is the main treatment 
          modality, it will be important to give some of the supplements listed 
          below. Each patient should have an individualized treatment plan that 
          best fits that individual and the type of cancer being treated. Some supplements 
          seem to be more effective with certain types of cancer. With all approaches 
          to cancer, nothing works or helps ALL patients . 
          Choosing the treatment plan that has best track record and the most likelihood 
          of helping your companion is what the following list may help to provide.I 
          have attempted to select from my practice experience, those supplements 
          that I have found to be helpful as a part of an overall treatment plan 
          in dealing with cancer. I do not suggest all of these supplements in any 
          one case, nor would I expect any animal to be able to endure taking all 
          of these on a daily basis. This list is to help you decide what will be 
          best for your companion. You should always consult with me or my office 
          staff about the specifics of your companion’s case before choosing to 
          give anything new. The supplements and medications I have listed below 
          are compatible, in general, with homeopathic cancer treatment unless otherwise 
          noted. The following list is in no way meant to be complete and will be 
          modified and enhanced as new information becomes available to me. Supplements List Amygdalin 
          (Laetrile) – also known as Vitamin B17, amygdalin is found in 
          the seeds of apricots, peaches, cherries and plums. I have very little 
          experience in using this in animals. It may help with quality of life 
          issues, pain control, and palliation of cancer. No evidence of curative 
          responses. Dosage 100 – 1500 mgs. two to three times daily depending on 
          weight. Dosage range is variable as not much data available for dogs and 
          cats. Available online. Arginine 
          (L–Arginine) – an amino acid shown to have some cancer fighting 
          properties when extra supplementation is added to diet. I recommend 500mg. 
          to 1500mg. daily added to food. Available online and in health food stores. Artemisinin 
          or Artemether – an extract of sweet wormwood from China used 
          mainly as an anti-malarial drug but may have cancer fighting properties. 
          There have been several recent articles about using this with osteosarcoma. 
          I have no direct experience using this in a cancer protocol, but I have 
          several cases now using this along with homeopathy. Artemether seems to 
          be the more potent form. Dosages are unclear. Anti-oxidants may interfere 
          with effectiveness. Toxicity is very low. Dosages in the range of 80mg. 
          to 100mg. twice daily for a large dog have been proposed. Available online 
          at Holley Pharmaceuticals or Allergy Research. Astragalus – see Chinese Herbs Bee Pollen – may be more useful as a cancer preventative. May boost the immune system 
          and help prevent side-effects of chemotherapy and radiation. Dosages as 
          for humans or less depending on weight. No toxicity. Available online 
          and health stores. Beta Carotene – a vitamin A precursor. Converted to Vitamin A in the body as required. 
          Can be given in large amounts. Little toxicity as compared to Vitamin 
          A. Seems to work as an anti-oxidant. Available online and in health food 
          stores. Bioflavonoids – found in foods containing Vitamin C. Compounds such as citrin, hesperidin, 
          rutin, and quercetin. Seem to support the anti-oxidant properties of Vitamin 
          C. Carnivora – extract of the Venus Flytrap, an insect eating plant. Seems to have 
          cancer fighting properties but probably works by stimulation of T-helper 
          cells. I have not seen any dramatic or significant results in cases where 
          this was used. Dosage extrapolated from human dosages. Expensive. I have 
          concern for environmental impact to the plant. It is a rare species. Available 
          online. Cat’s Claw 
          (Una de gato) – from the vine of a Peruvian plant. Has anti-oxidant 
          and immune enhancing properties. May be useful. Use extrapolated human 
          dosages. May be more useful in high doses. Widely available. Chinese Herbs - There are many Chinese herbal combinations for cancer therapy. The two 
          I most often use in my practice are Astragalus 10+, a combination of Astragalus 
          and ten other herbs to boost the immune system, and Chih-ko and Circuma, 
          a tumor fighting combination of herbs. Both are available from our office. 
          Dosages vary. Chlorella – a fresh-water, single celled algae taken for high chlorophyll content, 
          anti-oxidant effect, and high vitamin content. Seems to have cancer fighting 
          properties. Larger doses may be more effective. Widely available. CoEnzyme 
          Q10 - naturally occurring substance found in sardines, soybean 
          and grapeseed oils, sesame seeds, pistachios, and spinach. Seems to have 
          cancer fighting properties when given at the 300mg. per day level or greater. 
          Expensive at high doses. Widely available. Colostrum – first milk from cow’s after parturition. Has immune factors that help 
          boost T-helper Cells along with other immune boosting properties. Mainly 
          from New Zealand cows where organically raised. Most beneficial in high 
          doses. Can be expensive. Widely available, online and health food stores. 
          See Transfer Factor also. Curcumin 
          (Tumeric) – yellow pigment that is the main component of Tumeric, 
          an Indian herb in the ginger family. Seems to have anti-carcinogenic properties 
          at many levels of cancer as a prevention and treatment. Has been used 
          effectively for tumor shrinkage topically as a paste also. Exact dosages 
          unknown. Available in grocery stores and specialty stores. Echinacea – an herbal stimulant for the immune system. Doesn’t seem to be of use 
          in cancer. Better used as an herbal for acute infections. Astragalus is 
          better for cancer use. Back to Top Essiac – a combination of herbals taken as a tea, tincture or capsule. Formulas 
          vary somewhat but all contain burdock, Indian rhubarb, sheep sorrel, and 
          slippery elm. Historically has been of great benefit in treating cancer 
          both for pain relief and tumor shrinkage. Some cures have been reported, 
          but mainly the effects seem palliative; recent use for treating cancer 
          seems less effective. My experience over the last twelve years would agree 
          with the latter. I have seen very little in positive responses. Essiac 
          is Caisse spelled backwards, the last name of the Canadian woman who formulated 
          the herbal combination. The recipe was originally from a Native American 
          Tribe based in Ontario, Canada. Widely available in many forms. Dosages 
          extrapolated from human dose. Fish Oil – a rich source of Omega 3’s which have been shown to have cancer fighting 
          and preventative effects. Salmon Oil is probably the best source. Dosages 
          range from 1000mg. to 5000mg. daily. Found in many combination products 
          with Flaxseed Oil and Borage Oil. Straight Fish Oil seems better utilized 
          for dogs and cats, whereas the combination products work well for people. 
          Widely available. Flaxseed 
          Oil – used the same way as fish oil, but fish oil may be better 
          for carnivores. Often used in combination with cottage cheese to fight 
          cancer, but this combination seems to have little basis for being effective. Goldenseal – used as herbal immune stimulant. Astragalus seems more appropriate. Grapeseed 
          Extract (Pycnogenol) – a potent anti-oxidant. Useful as a part 
          of any cancer protocol. Dosages are 1-2 mg. per lb. body weight per day. 
          Doesn’t seem useful in higher dosages. Widely available. Some think Pycnogenol, 
          a similar substance extracted from Pine Bark, is more potent. It is also 
          more expensive. Green Tea – seems to have several anti-carcinogenic properties both for prevention 
          and treatment. May be impractical, as large amounts are probably required 
          to have much effect therapeutically. Widely available. Hoxsey Formula – a combination of herbals containing red clover, buckthorn bark, barberry 
          bark, chaparral, licorice root, Cascara amarga, and prickly ash bark. 
          Bloodroot is sometimes added to make an external formula for topical application. 
          There are many formulations available. There are good studies supporting 
          its effectiveness. I have used this in combination with homeopathy in 
          some cases and may have seen more results than with homeopathy alone. 
          Dosages vary with formulation. Hydrazine 
          sulphate – a synthetic compound, non-toxic, which seems to stimulate 
          appetite, help prevent cachexia, the wasting from cancer, and offer some 
          pain relief. I have used this in the past and have had mixed results. 
          Not readily available. Inositol – an unofficial B-vitamin. Found in many high fiber foods. Converted to 
          lecithin in the body. May have some cancer fighting properties such as 
          angiogenesis or the reduction of blood supply to tumors. Dosages extrapolated 
          from human dosages. Widely available. Iscador (Mistletoe) – fermented extracts from European mistletoe. Often injected, rather than 
          taken orally. Used widely in Europe. Has had mixed results in my practice, 
          although varieties of extracts available to me have been limited. Could 
          be useful approach with certain cancers. Dosages vary with route of administration. Maitake Mushrooms 
          (Shitake) – stimulates T-helper cells and generally boosts the 
          immune system. Potent immune boosters. Found in many combination products. 
          Dosages extrapolated from human dosages. Widely available. Back to Top MaxGXL - a natural supplement that 
stimulates the  production of glutathione in the cells.   Glutathione is
 the ultimate antioxidant, because it is the one that  works at the 
mitochondrial level within the cell.  Both as a cancer preventative and 
an adjunct  therapy where cancer is already present, I strongly recommend this product and  use it as part of my protocol with all my cancer patients . 
 Glutathione is classified as an “orphan drug”  by the FDA for promoting
 weight gain and preventing weight loss with cancer  patients.  MaxGXL 
also has a strong  anti-inflammatory effect with the addition of 
Cordyceps, plus the glutathione  produced destroys free-radicals and 
restores normal cellular function. For more information and to order MaxGXL, go to www.maxgxl.com/cloops .  You can also call our office for more  information. Mistletoe – see Iscador Nosodes (Isodes) – remedies made from cancer cells or tumors and taken orally or injected. 
          These can be made specifically from the patient’s tumor (Isode) or a generic 
          tumor can be used (Nosode). These are diluted and succussed and work homeopathically. 
          I have had some results with this approach depending on the type of cancer 
          and the patient. Omega 3’s – active ingredient in Fish Oils, Flaxseed Oils and Borage Oil. Helpful 
          in prevention and treatment of cancer. Pau D’arco – extract of the inner bark of a genus of trees from the South American 
          rainforest. Has been shown to reduce the size of tumors. May interfere 
          with homeopathic remedies according to some homeopaths. Lapachol is the 
          active ingredient. Dosage extrapolated from human dosages. Widely available. Poly MVA – supposedly a DNA nutrient that repairs abnormal genes that have set 
          the cancer cascade in motion. A natural substance generally well-tolerated, 
          I have seen some cats react adversely to it. Considered a mineralo-vitamin. 
          I have seen little difference in cases where this was used. Very expensive. 
          Dosages extrapolated from human dosages. Pycnogenol – see Grapeseed Extract Quercetin – a bioflavonoid. Seems most helpful with stomach cancers. Dosages extrapolated 
          from human dosage. Available online and in health food stores. Selenium – trace mineral complimentary and synergistically with Vitamin E. Helpful 
          in prevention of cancer and may be useful in treatment in conjunction 
          with Vitamin E. Mega doses not recommended. Dosages range from 50 to 200mcg. 
          Daily. Readily available. Shark Cartilage – usage is based on the premise that sharks don’t get cancer. There are 
          some small studies that showed tumor regression using fairly large doses 
          of this. I have not seen any results with shark cartilage use and I object 
          to the harvesting of sharks for this purpose. Amounts required are completely 
          impractical for cats. Soy Products – anti-carcinogenic effects from fermented soy products have been shown 
          in people. Carnivores don’t metabolize soy protein very effectively and 
          this doesn’t seem to be an effective part of therapy for dogs and cats. Spirulina – another “green” supplement. See Chorella. Superoxide 
          dismutase (SOD) – neutralizes free radicals that cause cancer 
          and that cancer cells release. An anti-oxidant enzyme. Widely available. 
          Dosages extrapolated for human doses. Tamoxifen – blocks estrogen activity that stimulates certain cancers such as mammary 
          tumors. Dosages extrapolated. Prescription medication. Transfer 
          Factors (Transfer Factor Plus) – extracts of colostrums where 
          the immune factors have been concentrated into a supplement. Much more 
          specific and concentrated than colostrums, but can be used in conjunction 
          with each other. Transfer Factor Plus from 4Life is what I generally recommend for my cancer patients, as an immune 
stimulant. I suggest the human product - giving one capsule twice daily 
per ten pounds body weight, up to six capsules twice daily as the 
maximum. There is also a Canine Complete Formula or Feline Complete 
Formula which is in grandular form - add this to their food, giving an 
equivalent amount as above. Go to www.4life.com or call 4Life at 888-454-3374. State that you wish to open a NEW CUSTOMER ACCOUNT. When asked for a sponsor number give ID #84038 . Place your order and write down your account number for future orders. Or you can call our office for more information. Vitamins 
          A and D are fat soluble and can be overdosed. There are some 
          protocols for pushing the limits on Vitamin A with cancer fighting results, 
          but consult with me before using more than a standard Vitamin A and D 
          supplement. B vitamins are water soluble and excess will be excreted, so overdosing 
          is not a problem. In general, giving a B-complex is best so as to keep 
          ratios in line between different B’s. Giving a 10mg. complex to cats and 
          up to a 100mg. complex for larger dogs is appropriate. Vitamin C can be dosed high or low. In general, I recommend about 500mg. 
          for a cat daily and up to 2000mg. for a large dog. At these levels any 
          type of Vitamin C can be used for most animals. If you choose to give 
          higher doses, then amounts should be increased gradually at weekly increments 
          and ester C’s should be used to avoid stomach difficulties. Vitamin E should be given dosing from 100 IU’s daily for cats to 400 IU’s 
          daily for large dogs. There is no evidence to show higher doses are beneficial 
          especially when other anti-oxidants are being given. Willard’s 
          Water – a blend of minerals with water in a concentrate. Adding 
          one ounce per gallon of drinking water seems to facilitate the removal 
          of heavy metals from the system. May be useful in helping to detoxify 
          while undergoing cancer therapy. Wobenzyme – a German formulation of digestive enzymes that may be helpful in an 
          overall cancer protocol. Formulations contain lipase, amylase, rutin, 
          pancreatin, papain, bromelain, trypsin, and chymotrypsin. Dosages extrapolated 
          from human dosages. Zinc – 
          deficiencies can reduce effectiveness of other cancer therapies. Should 
          not be used long term as a supplement but given for one week at a time 
          in the 20 mg. to 40mg. range daily, depending on weight. Back to Top Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report 