
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 11:20:56 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.16
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.16
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 11:20:56 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Lower Back Pain Information | Pain Management Skip to content Skip to main navigation Skip to first column Skip to second column Health Tuber Home Health Videos Health Articles Add Health Videos Contact Us Home Pain Management Lower Back Pain Information Lower Back Pain Information If you have lower back pain, you are not alone. This is one of the most common types of back problems. But, how do you know if you are in need of a visit to a doctor, a chiropractor, or some other medical professional, or if you can just treat it yourself at home? The treatments for back pain can be as simple as an over the counter medication or as complex as surgery. In order to decide how to treat your lower back pain, you should consider the cause of the pain and also the severity and duration of the pain. How Much Pain Do You Have? If you have injured your back from twisting, falling, or lifting, you should make a visit to your doctor to determine the severity of your injury. But remember that the amount of pain that you have does not necessarily indicate how serious your injury is. Lower back pain from a spasm can be much worse than a herniated disk, which may cause little or no pain. For constant severe pain in your lower back of any kind that lasts longer than a day or two you should visit a doctor-but until you see them, you can take an anti-inflammatory like ibuprofen or use heat or cold packs. Common Causes A herniated or bulging disk can cause some lower back pain but the more telling symptoms are a sudden loss of bladder control and/or numbness or weakness in the legs. This is an occasion where you should visit your doctor immediately. If you are experiencing limited movement of your lower spine when you try to twist along with severe lower back pain you may have a collapsed vertebra. It is not usually too serious, but you should be seen by a doctor as soon as possible. This is more common in individuals over 60 or people with arthritis. Kidney infections and kidney stones can cause severe lower back pain. If you are experiencing blood in your urine or the pain in your back is mostly limited to one side this is a possible cause. Make a visit to your doctor as soon as possible. Shingles is a form of the chicken pox bacteria, usually limited to adults. It can also cause lower back pain in addition to fever and a rash. Prevent Back Pain In order to help prevent injury and pain in your lower back, make sure that you exercise, maintain a healthy weight and possibly supplement with Vitamin B12 and Calcium. This will give you a better prospect of preventing lower back pain in the future. Health Categories Acne ADD/ADHD AIDS/HIV and Immune System Allergy Arthritis Asthma and Respiratory Brain and Nervous System Cancer Children's Health Cold and Flu Depression Diabetes and Endocrine System Diet and Nutrition Digestive System Exercise & Fitness Family Health Hair Loss Headache Health Articles Heart and Blood Infectious Disease Men's Health Pain Management Senior's Health Skin Health Weight Loss Women's Health Latest Video NuraFlex Reviewed : Does Featured Video ﻿﻿ Diabetes Symptoms & Treat Diabetes Symptoms & Treat 5 Healthy Weight Loss Tip Tips to Promote Good Dige Ways to Help Your Digesti Nutrition & Healthy Eatin Top 5 Exercises for Legs The weight loss and fitness industry has grown at an unbelievable rate over the last few years. Now there are many different workout venues, routines and machines, and people can use all kinds of thin [ ... ] readmore... How to Get Your Back Looking Toned Exercise has come a long way in the last hundred years. We never used to hear about all these exercises that target certain body parts. It is great that we have the opportunity to workout in a way tha [ ... ] readmore... Other Articles Great Exercises to Improve the Health and Strength of Seniors Belly Dancing Exercise Made Fun and Functional Choosing the Right College How to Prevent Osteoporosis the Natural Way The Power of Positivity About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap © 2011 copyright www.healthtuber.com All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer: The information provided within this website is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for consultation with your physician or healthcare provider. The opinions expressed herein are not necessarily those of the Owners and Sponsors of this site. By using this site you agree to indemnify, and hold the Owners and Sponsors harm