
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 05:22:13 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Valium And Your Fitness Fitness Building Building Bodies Fitness Fitness Building | Calgary Bootcamp Commando Cardio | Calgary Personal Training Valium And Your Health Valium is also called: Diazepam ( T-Quil, Valrelease, Valium ) Valium is an antianxiety drug from a family called benzodiazepines. It is used 
  primarily for short-term relief of: - Mild to moderate anxiety - Treating symptoms of acute alcohol withdrawals - Controlling epilepsy - To relieve muscle spasms. Here is the bad part about Valium: The habit-forming potential of valium is high. It is possible to become dependent 
  in only two weeks. It is recommended that valium should not be taken for 
  more then four weeks. You should not stop taking valium abruptly, this could 
  cause psychological and physical withdrawal symptoms. Do not take valium if you are planning on becoming pregnant. Do not take valium 
  if you are breast-feeding. Definitely do not take this drug if you are pregnant. 
  Some studies have found that taking valium may lead to serious birth defects. 
  Nothing is worth the risk of harming a new life. The possible side effects of valium include: drowsiness, abdominal 
  cramps, clumsiness, blurred vision, dry mouth, fatigue, light-headedness, heart 
  palpitations, slurred speech, difficulty urinating, convulsions, hallucinations, 
  amnesia, difficulty breathing, loss of muscle coordination, trembling, headache, 
  and confusion. So is Valium worth it? When looking at the possible side effects of valium, one has to think, "Is it 
  better to have mild anxiety or to cope with abdominal cramps, difficulty breathing 
  and hallucinations?". Maybe I'll just meditate, get counseling or start working 
  out. Would I rather have a muscle spasm or difficulty urinating, blurred vision and 
  convulsions? Maybe I'll just stretch, get a message/ ART and move into some 
  high rep exercises to pump blood in and heal the muscle. When it comes to epilepsy there are some things to consider before going on 
  hard medications like valium. - Research points to vitamin and mineral deficiencies as possible causes of 
  epilepsy. The key nutrients that appear deficient in epileptics are vitamin 
  B6, vitamin A, folic acid, vitamin D, zinc, taurine, magnesium, and calcium. - Low blood sugar or Hypoglycemia, brings on feelings of fatigue and stress 
  and may be a factor in triggering seizures. Scientists have estimated that between 
  50 to 90 percent of all epileptics suffer from low blood sugar, and 70 percent 
  have abnormal glucose tolerance levels. You may also want to check on the levels of toxins in your system. For example, aspartame . This beauty takes a toll on all your body systems. Its important to know that any time the body reacts in an unnatural way, its 
  just trying to tell you that something is wrong. Look for it. For example, it 
  could be that you don't like your job. A lot of people, dissatisfied with an 
  aspect of their life will get headaches whenever they come in contact with that 
  thing. Have you ever not wanted to do something and became suddenly ill? Now you don't 
  have to do it and the body is happy. Also did you know that disease can only be in the body if it's in an acidic 
  state? If you are running into health problems, your body could be telling you 
  that your PH is out of whack. When it comes to alcohol withdrawal symptoms, maybe sometimes drugs are needed. 
  If a short term stint of valium will help someone get their life in order, I'm 
  all for it. There are several ways via nutrition to help restore liver function after alcohol 
  abuse, but that's for another article. One big one though that has a proven 
  track record is Milk Thistle. Milk thistle extract is commonly recommended to 
  counteract the harmful actions of alcohol on the liver. Double-blind trials 
  indicate that it helps the liver return to a healthy state once a person stops 
  drinking. Weigh the pros and cons, check out alternatives and make your own decisions 
  about valium. Just remember that the body is a complex machine and anything 
  put in thats out of the ordinary can have consequences. For more complete information and a FREE special report on WHY the EDM method is the single best and most useful method for losing weight and how EASY it is for anyone to get started, no matter what you weigh now, visit: The Insiders Weight Loss Guide *Special Report* Ray Burton is a 15 year veteran weight loss coach who specializes in helping busy moms and parents maximize their results. Who Is Ray Burton? Ray Burton is an ISSA,AFLCA, and Crossfit certified personal trainer in Canada and has been featured on CBC TV and radio, and has done consulting for The Department Of National Defense and General Electric among others. CLICK HERE, for Products And Services Calgary Fitness Programs Contact Us Calgary Personal Training Boot Camp Calgary Services | Calgary Personal Training | Calgary Bootcamp Commando Cardio | Free Weight Exercises | Cardio Training | Weight Training/Lifting | Nutrition | Calg