
Chronic Pain and CAM: At a Glance | NCCAM Skip navigation links Follow NCCAM: Search Jump to: Home Health Info Research Grants & Funding Training News & Events About NCCAM Home Contact Us Site Map FAQs Accessibility Web Site Policies Privacy Policy Health Info Topics A–Z Herbs at a Glance Información en Español Be an Informed Consumer What Is CAM? Safety Information For Health Care Professionals Clinical Practice Guidelines Literature Reviews Research Research Results Topics A–Z Results by Date Sponsored Research Awarded Grants and Contracts Research Centers Policies & Guidelines Clinical Trials Labs at NCCAM Grants & Funding Funding Opportunities Grantee Policies Application Resources Clinical Research Toolbox What Will NCCAM Fund? Overview Research Funding Priorities Funding Strategy Types of Grants and Contracts General Award Mechanisms Small Business Research Grant Program (SBIR) Training NCCAM Funding and Programs Grants, Awards, & Opportunities Continuing Education CAM Online Video Lectures Research Training Locations More Training Resources News Press Releases Alerts & Advisories CAM Statistics Events Distinguished Lecture Series Advisory Council Meetings NCCAM Clinical Digest A monthly newsletter with evidence-based information on CAM and a News condition About NCCAM NCCAM at a Glance Mission and Vision Organizational Structure Director's Message Strategic Plans & Reports Budget & Legislation Advisory Council Job Opportunities Chronic Pain and CAM: At a Glance On this page: Introduction About Chronic Pain CAM Use for Chronic Pain What the Science Says About CAM and Chronic Pain NCCAM-Funded Research Chronic Pain: CAM Research Challenges and Opportunities If You Are Considering CAM for Chronic Pain For More Information Introduction Pain is one of the most common conditions for which adults use complementary and alternative therapies. Because chronic (long-term) pain can be resistant to many medical treatments and can cause serious problems, people who suffer from chronic pain often turn to complementary and alternative medicine A group of diverse medical and health care systems, practices, and products that are not presently considered to be part of conventional medicine. Complementary medicine is used together with conventional medicine, and alternative medicine is used in place of conventional medicine. (CAM) for relief. This fact sheet provides basic information on chronic pain and “what the science says” about the effectiveness of CAM therapies. If you are considering a CAM therapy for chronic pain, talk with your health care provider first. About Chronic Pain Millions of Americans suffer from pain that is chronic, severe, and not easily managed. Pain from arthritis, back problems, other musculoskeletal conditions, and headache costs U.S. businesses more than $61 billion a year in lost worker productivity. Chronic pain is often defined as any pain lasting more than 12 weeks. Whereas acute pain is a normal sensation, chronic pain is very different. Chronic pain persists—often for months or even longer. (In a national survey, 26 percent of adults—an estimated 76.5 million Americans—reported experiencing pain that lasted more than 24 hours; of those reporting pain, 42 percent said it lasted more than a year.) Chronic pain may arise from an initial injury such as a back sprain, or there may be an ongoing cause such as a disease, or there may be no evident cause. Other health problems—such as fatigue, sleep disturbance, mood changes, and mobility limitations—may also be associated with chronic pain. Common chronic pain conditions include low-back pain, headache, arthritis pain, pain from nerve damage (e.g., diabetic neuropathy), cancer pain, and other conditions, such as fibromyalgia, in which pain is a prominent factor. A person may have two or more co-existing chronic pain conditions. Such conditions can include chronic fatigue syndrome, endometriosis, fibromyalgia, interstitial cystitis (painful bladder syndrome), irritable bowel syndrome, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, and vulvodynia (chronic vulvar pain). It is not known whether these disorders share a common cause. People who suffer from chronic pain take various prescription and nonprescription medications; often, these do not provide adequate relief and have unwanted side effects. Other approaches to pain management, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (which emphasizes the role of thought patterns), physical therapy, exercise, and various CAM therapies, are also widely used. CAM Use for Chronic Pain In the 2007 National Health Interview Survey, back pain was by far the most common condition cited as a reason for using CAM, followed by neck pain, joint pain/stiffness, and arthritis; other musculoskeletal pain and severe headache also ranked among the top 10 reasons. Another survey of more than 400 patients at a chronic pain clinic found that almost 40 percent used at least one form of CAM. People seeking relief from chronic pain use a variety of CAM therapies. Examples include dietary supplements, such as glucosamine A substance found in the fluid around joints and used by the body to make and repair cartilage. Glucosamine in dietary supplements is made in the laboratory or from the shells of shrimp, lobster, and crabs. , chondroitin A substance found in the cartilage around joints. Chondroitin in dietary supplements is made in the laboratory or from the cartilage of sharks and cattle. , and various herbs, and mind and body approaches, such as acupuncture A family of procedures that originated in traditional Chinese medicine. Acupuncture is the stimulation of specific points on the body by a variety of techniques, including the insertion of thin metal needles though the skin. It is intended to remove blockages in the flow of qi and restore and maintain health. , guided imagery Any of various techniques (such as a series of verbal suggestions) used to guide another person or oneself in imagining sensations—especially in visualizing an image in the mind—to bring about a desired physical response (such as stress reduction). , hypnotherapy, massage, meditation A conscious mental process using certain techniques—such as focusing attention or maintaining a specific posture—to suspend the stream of thoughts and relax the body and mind. , relaxation therapy, spinal manipulation, tai chi A practice in traditional Chinese medicine that uses a series of slow, gentle movements coordinated with breathing and meditation. The goal is to enhance physical functioning, improve balance and concentration, and reduce stress. , and yoga. What the Science Says About CAM and Chronic Pain In spite of the widespread use of CAM therapies for chronic pain, scientific evidence on whether the therapies help the conditions for which they are used and, if so, how—is, for the most part, limited. However, the evidence base is growing, especially for CAM therapies that many people use for common kinds of pain. About Scientific Evidence on CAM Therapies Scientific evidence on CAM therapies includes results from laboratory research (e.g., animal studies) as well as clinical trials (studies in people). It encompasses both “positive” findings (evidence that a therapy may work) and “negative” findings (evidence that it probably does not work or that it may be unsafe). Scientific journals publish study results, as well as review articles that evaluate the evidence as it accumulates; fact sheets from the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM)—like this one—base information about CAM research primarily on the most rigorous review articles, known as systematic reviews and meta-analyses. Authors of such reviews often conclude that more research and/or better designed studies are needed. A comprehensive description of scientific research on all the CAM therapies that people use for chronic pain is beyond the scope of this fact sheet. The rest of this section highlights the research status of some of the therapies used for common kinds of pain. Low-back pain. Reviews of research on acupuncture, massage Pressing, rubbing, and moving muscles and other soft tissues of the body, primarily by using the hands and fingers. The aim is to increase the flow of blood and oxygen to the massaged area. , and spinal manipulation for chronic low-back pain have found evidence that these therapies may be beneficial. Clinical practice guidelines issued by the American College of Physicians/American Pain Society in 2007 recommend these therapies and five other nonpharmacologic (nondrug) approaches for patients with back pain who do not improve with medication, education, and self-care (the other recommended approaches are cognitive-behavioral therapy, exercise therapy, progressive relaxation, intensive interdisciplinary rehabilitation, and yoga ). Reviews of research on other CAM therapies that people sometimes use for chronic low-back pain, such as various herbal remedies and prolotherapy injections, generally have found limited or no evidence to support their use for this purpose, or the evidence is mixed. Arthritis. Among CAM approaches that have been studied for pain relief in osteoarthritis are acupuncture, glucosamine/chondroitin, herbal remedies, mineral baths (balneotherapy), and tai chi. Many of these approaches have also been studied for rheumatoid arthritis. Overall, although some studies of CAM practices for arthritis have had promising results, the evidence generally is limited or mixed. A systematic review article on acupuncture for osteoarthritis concluded that acupuncture may lead to small improvements in pain and function. However, in a large clinical study, known as GAIT (Glucosamine/chondroitin Arthritis Intervention Trial), the popular dietary supplements glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate alone or in combination did not significantly relieve knee osteoarthritis pain among all participants, although the combination did help a subgroup who had moderate-to-severe pain. Reviews have found evidence that gamma linolenic acid (GLA, from evening primrose and certain other plant oils) may relieve rheumatoid arthritis pain, although further research is needed. Reviews have also noted evidence that dietary supplements known as ASUs (avocado-soybean unsaponifiables) and devil’s claw may provide relief from osteoarthritis pain. Headache. Reviews of research on acupuncture for reducing the frequency and intensity of migraine and tension-type headaches conclude that patients may benefit from acupuncture therapy. One review found evidence that spinal manipulation may help patients suffering from chronic tension-type or cervicogenic (neck-related) headaches. Some research suggests that the herb A plant or part of a plant used for its flavor, scent, or potential therapeutic properties. Includes flowers, leaves, bark, fruit, seeds, stems, and roots. feverfew may prevent migraine attacks, but results from clinical trials are mixed, and additional research is needed. Neck pain. Reviews of research on manual therapies (primarily manipulation The application of controlled force to a joint, moving it beyond the normal range of motion in an effort to aid in restoring health. Manipulation may be performed as a part of other therapies or whole medical systems, including chiropractic medicine, massage, and naturopathy. or mobilization) and acupuncture for chronic neck pain have found mixed evidence regarding potential benefits and have emphasized the need for additional research. One review noted that clinical guidelines often endorse the use of manual therapies for neck pain, although there is no overall consensus on the status of these therapies. Other types of pain. Various CAM approaches have also been studied for other types of chronic pain, such as facial pain, including from temporomandibular joint (jaw) disorder; nerve pain associated with diabetes and other conditions; cancer pain; and pain experienced by people with fibromyalgia. For example, a small study found that people with fibromyalgia may benefit from practicing tai chi. In general, research reviews have found some promising evidence of effectiveness for some CAM therapies but often emphasize that additional research is needed before treatment recommendations can be made. Other CAM approaches. People suffering from various types of chronic pain sometimes turn to other CAM practices, such as hypnotherapy, meditation, or qi gong. Again, reviews of the research on these therapies have found some evidence of effectiveness but note the need for further studies. Although static magnets are widely marketed for pain control, a review of the related research concludes that the evidence does not support this practice. Several NCCAM fact sheets present additional information on pain-related CAM research and include reference lists citing relevant studies and reviews; examples include Acupuncture for Pain , Spinal Manipulation for Low-Back Pain , Fibromyalgia and CAM: At a Glance , Massage Therapy: An Introduction , and Yoga for Health: An Introduction . Scientific Evidence on CAM for Pain Promising Evidence of Potential Benefit Limited, Mixed, or No Evidence To Support Use Low-Back Pain Acupuncture √ Massage √ Spinal Manipulation √ Progressive Relaxation √ Yoga √ Prolotherapy √ Herbal Remedies √ Arthritis Acupuncture √ Glucosamine/Chondroitin √ Gamma Linolenic Acid (GLA) √ Herbal Remedies √ Balneotherapy (Mineral Baths) √ Tai Chi √ Headache Acupuncture √ Spinal Manipulation √ Feverfew √ Neck Pain Acupuncture √ Spinal Manipulation √ NCCAM-Funded Research NCCAM is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Pain Consortium, which coordinates pain research at NIH. NCCAM-supported studies are helping to build an evidence base on the efficacy and safety of CAM modalities for treating chronic pain. Recent NCCAM-supported studies have been investigating: CAM therapies for chronic low-back pain, including acupuncture, massage, spinal manipulation, and yoga CAM therapies for osteoarthritis pain, including prolotherapy, tai chi, and yoga Massage for chronic neck pain Acupuncture and spinal manipulation for chronic headaches Acupuncture and tai chi for fibromyalgia pain. In addition, NCCAM is supporting a year-long, Internet-based survey of people with chronic pain and other chronic conditions to study CAM effectiveness as well as interactions among stress and coping, pain, and treatment outcomes. The survey is called PROCAIM—Patient-Reported Outcomes from Complementary, Alternative, and Integrative Medicine. NCCAM is also supporting an analysis of results from clinical trials on acupuncture for chronic pain. Another NCCAM initiative is assessing the effectiveness of CAM interventions for chronic back pain. Chronic Pain: CAM Research Challenges and Opportunities In light of the human and economic costs of chronic pain, as well as evidence that many people who suffer from chronic pain turn to CAM for relief, NCCAM places a high priority on pain-related research. Researchers in this area face unique challenges, in that much remains to be understood about the nature of chronic pain and about the best approaches to studying its many different causes, people’s different responses, and the value of various treatment approaches—CAM and conventional. The ultimate goal of research on chronic pain is to build an evidence base that can guide pain management decisions tailored to individuals. These decisions often involve combining treatment approaches in cost-effective ways that do the best possible job of helping people with chronic pain minimize pain, maximize function, and improve quality of life. While building an evidence base to help people with chronic pain and their health care providers make decisions about specific therapies, CAM research is also helping to close gaps in our basic understanding of pain mechanisms. For example, researchers are using state-of-the-art imaging technology to see how acupuncture affects brain activity. One study’s finding that changes in brain activity during acupuncture are different for people with chronic pain compared with healthy people is important for understanding not only how acupuncture might work but also pain processes in general. If You Are Considering CAM for Chronic Pain Do not use a CAM therapy as a replacement for conventional care or to postpone seeing a doctor about chronic pain or any other medical problem. Learn about the therapy you are considering, especially the scientific evidence on its safety and whether it works. Talk with the health care providers you see for chronic pain. Tell them about the therapy you are considering and ask any questions you may have. They may know about the therapy and be able to advise you on its safety, use, and likely effectiveness. If you are considering a practitioner-provided CAM therapy such as chiropractic manipulation, massage, or acupuncture, ask a trusted source (such as your doctor or a nearby hospital) to recommend a practitioner. Find out about the training and experience of any practitioner you are considering. Ask whether the practitioner has experience working with your pain condition. To learn more, see the NCCAM fact sheet, Selecting a CAM Practitioner . If you are considering dietary supplement A product that contains vitamins, minerals, herbs or other botanicals, amino acids, enzymes, and/or other ingredients intended to supplement the diet. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has special labeling requirements for dietary supplements and treats them as foods, not drugs. s, keep in mind that they can act in the same way as medications. They can cause medical problems if not used correctly, and some may interact with prescription or nonprescription medications or other dietary supplements you take. Your health care provider can advise you. If you are pregnant or nursing a child, or if you are considering giving a child a dietary supplement, it is especially important to consult your health care provider. To learn more, see the NCCAM fact sheet, Using Dietary Supplements Wisely . Tell all your health care providers about any complementary and alternative practices you use. Give them a full picture of what you do to manage your health. This will help ensure coordinated and safe care. For tips about talking with your health care providers about CAM, see NCCAM’s Time to Talk campaign . Top For More Information NCCAM Clearinghouse The NCCAM Clearinghouse provides information on CAM and NCCAM, including publications and searches of Federal databases of scientific and medical literature. The Clearinghouse does not provide medical advice, treatment recommendations, or referrals to practitioners. Toll-free in the U.S.: 1-888-644-6226 TTY (for deaf and hard-of-hearing callers): 1-866-464-3615 Web site: nccam.nih.gov E-mail: info@nccam.nih.gov National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) The mission of NINDS is to reduce the burden of neurological diseases—a burden borne by every age group, every segment of society, and people all over the world. To accomplish this goal NINDS supports and conducts research, both basic and clinical, on the normal and diseased nervous system, fosters the training of investigators in the basic and clinical neurosciences, and seeks better understanding, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of neurological disorders. Web site: www.ninds.nih.gov National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) The mission of NIAMS is to support research into the causes, treatment, and prevention of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases; the training of basic and clinical scientists to carry out this research; and the dissemination of information on research progress in these diseases. Web site: www.niams.nih.gov American Pain Foundation The American Pain Foundation is an independent, nonprofit organization serving people with pain through information, advocacy, and support. Web site: www.painfoundation.org PubMed® A service of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), PubMed® contains publication information and (in most cases) brief summaries of articles from scientific and medical journals. Web site: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews is a collection of evidence-based reviews produced by the Cochrane Library, an international nonprofit organization. The reviews summarize the results of clinical trials on health care interventions. Summaries are free; full-text reviews are by subscription only. Web site: www.thecochranelibrary.com/view/0/ ClinicalTrials.gov ClinicalTrials.gov is a database of information on federally and privately supported clinical trials (research studies in people) for a wide range of diseases and conditions. It is sponsored by the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Web site: www.clinicaltrials.gov NIH National Library of Medicine's MedlinePlus To provide resources that help answer health questions, MedlinePlus brings together authoritative information from the National Institutes of Health as well as other Government agencies and health-related organizations. Web site: www.medlineplus.gov Sources Abeles M, Solitar BM, Pillinger MH, et al..
    
        
    Update on fibromyalgia therapy.. American Journal of Medicine. 2008 ;
    
        121(7):555–561. Assendelft WJJ, Morton SC, Yu EI et al. Spinal manipulative therapy for low-back pain. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2004 ;
    
        (1):CD000447. Bardia A, Barton DL, Prokop LJ. Efficacy of complementary and alternative medicine therapies in relieving cancer pain: a systematic review. Journal of Clinical Oncology. 2006 ;
    
        24(34):5457–5464. Barnes PM, Bloom B, Nahin R. Complementary and alternative medicine use among adults and children: United States, 2007. 2008 ; Berman BM, Lao L, Langenberg P, et al. Effectiveness of acupuncture as adjunctive therapy in osteoarthritis of the knee: a randomized, controlled trial. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2004 ;
    
        141(12):901–911. Bronfort G, Nilsson N, Haas M, et al. Non-invasive physical treatments for chronic/recurrent headaches. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2004 ;
    
        (3):CD001878 . Chou R, Huffman LH. Nonpharmacologic therapies for acute and chronic low back pain: a review of the evidence for an American Pain Society/American College of Physicians clinical practice guideline. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2007 ;
    
        147(7):492–504. Chou R, Qaseem A, Snow V, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2007 ;
    
        147(7):478–491. Clegg DO, Reda DJ, Harris CL, et al. Glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate, and the two in combination for painful knee osteoarthritis. New England Journal of Medicine. 2006 ;
    
        354(8):795–808. Dagenais S, Yelland MJ, Del Mar C, et al. Prolotherapy injections for chronic low-back pain. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2007 ;
    
        (2):CD004059. Elkins G, Jensen MP, Patterson DR. Hypnotherapy for the management of chronic pain. International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis. 2007 ;
    
        55(3):275–287. Furlan AD, Imamura M, Dryden T, et al. Massage for low-back pain. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2008 ;
    
        (4):CD001929. Furlan AD, van Tulder M, Cherkin D, et al. Acupuncture and dry-needling for low back pain: an updated systematic review within the framework of the Cochrane collaboration. Spine. 2005 ;
    
        30(8):944–963. Gagnier JJ, van Tulder MW, Berman BM, et al. Herbal medicine for low back pain. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2006 ;
    
        (2):CD004504. Haldeman D, Dagenais S.
    
        
    Evidence-informed management of chronic low back pain. Spine Journal. 2008 ;
    
        8(1):1–278. Hall A, Maher C, Latimer J, et al. The effectiveness of tai chi for chronic musculoskeletal pain conditions: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Arthritis and Rheumatism. 2009 ;
    
        61(6):717–724. Hurwitz EL, Carragee EJ, van der Velde G, et al. Treatment of neck pain: noninvasive interventions: Results of the Bone and Joint Decade 2000-2010 Task Force on Neck Pain and Its Associated Disorders. Spine. 2008 ;
    
        33(4S):S123–S152. Konvicka JJ, Meyer TA, McDavid AJ, et al. Complementary/alternative medicine use among chronic pain clinic patients. Journal of Perianesthesia Nursing. 2008 ;
    
        23(1):17–23. Lawrence DJ, Meeker W, Branson R, et al. Chiropractic management of low back pain and low back-related leg complaints: a literature synthesis. Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics. 2008 ;
    
        31(9):659–674. Lee MS, Pittler MH, Ernst E. External qigong for pain conditions: a systematic review of randomized clinical trials. Journal of Pain. 2007 ;
    
        8(11):827–831. Lee MS, Pittler MH, Ernst E. Tai chi for osteoarthritis: a systematic review. Clinical Rheumatology. 2008 ;
    
        27(2):211–218. Lee MS, Pittler MH, Ernst E. Tai chi for rheumatoid arthritis: a systematic review. Rheumatology. 2007 ;
    
        46(11):1648–1651. Linde K, Allais G, Brinkhaus B, et al. Acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2009 ;
    
        (1):CD001218 . Linde K, Allais G, Brinkhaus B, et al. Acupuncture for tension-type headache. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2009 ;
    
        (1):CD007587. Manchikanti L, Singh V, Datta S, et al. Comprehensive review of epidemiology, scope, and impact of spinal pain. Pain Physician. 2009 ;
    
        12(4):E35–70. Manheimer E, Cheng K, Linde K, et al. Acupuncture for peripheral joint osteoarthritis. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2010 ;
    
        (1):CD001977. Manheimer E, Linde K, Lao L, et al. Meta-analysis: acupuncture for osteoarthritis of the knee. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2007 ;
    
        146(12):868–877. Manheimer E, White A, Berman B, Forys K, Ernst E. Meta-analysis: acupuncture for low back pain. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2005 ;
    
        142(8):651–663. Morone NE, Greco CM. Mind-body interventions for chronic pain in older adults: a structured review. Pain Medicine. 2007 ;
    
        8(4):359–375. Myers CD. Complementary and alternative medicine for persistent facial pain. Dental Clinics of North America. 2007 ;
    
        51(1):263–274. Pittler MH, Brown EM, Ernst E. Static magnets for reducing pain: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials. Canadian Medical Association Journal. 2007 ;
    
        177(7):736–742. Pittler MH, Ernst E. Complementary therapies for neuropathic and neuralgic pain: systematic review. Clinical Journal of Pain. 2008 ;
    
        24(8):731–733. Pittler MH, Ernst E. Feverfew for preventing migraine. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2004 ;
    
        (1):CD002286. Santaguida PL, Gross A, Busse J, et al.
    
        
    Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Back Pain Utilization Report. 2009 ; Sawitzke AD, Shi H, Finco MF, et al. Clinical efficacy and safety of glucosamine, chondroitin sulphate, their combination, celecoxib or placebo taken to treat osteoarthritis of the knee: 2-year results from GAIT. Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases. 2010 ;
    
        69(8):1459–1464. Selfe TK, Taylor AG. Acupuncture and osteoarthritis of the knee: a review of randomized, controlled trials. Family and Community Health. 2008 ;
    
        31(3):247–254. Soeken KL. Selected CAM therapies for arthritis-related pain: the evidence from systematic reviews. Clinical Journal of Pain. 2004 ;
    
        20(1):13–18. Stewart WF, Ricci JA, Chee E, et al. Lost productive time and cost due to common pain conditions in the U.S. workforce. Journal of the American Medical Association. 2003 ;
    
        290(18):2443–2454. Teixeira ME. Meditation as an intervention for chronic pain: an integrative review. Holistic Nursing Practice. 2008 ;
    
        22(4):225–234. Trinh K, Graham N, Gross A. Acupuncture for neck disorders. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2006 ;
    
        (3):CD004870 . Turk DC, Swanson KS, Tunks ER. Psychological approaches in the treatment of chronic pain patients–when pills, scalpels, and needles are not enough. Canadian Journal of Psychiatry. 2008 ;
    
        53(4):213–223. Verhagen AP, Bierma-Zeinstra SMA, Boers M, et al. Balneotherapy for osteoarthritis. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2007 ;
    
        (4):CD006864. Verhagen AP, Bierma-Zeinstra SMA, Boers M, et al. Balneotherapy for rheumatoid arthritis. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2004 ;
    
        (1):CD000518. Vernon H, Humphreys BK. Manual therapy for neck pain: an overview of randomized clinical trials and systematic reviews. Europa Medicophysica. 2007 ;
    
        43(1):91–118. Wang C, Schmid CH, Rones R, et al.. A randomized trial of tai chi for fibromyalgia.. New England Journal of Medicine.. 2010 ;
    
        ;363(8):743–754.. Yuan J, Pureppong N, Kerr DP, et al. Effectiveness of acupuncture for low back pain: a systematic review. Spine. 2008 ;
    
        33(23):E887–900. Zareba G. Phytotherapy for pain relief. Drugs of Today. 2009 ;
    
        45(6):445–467. National Center for Health Statistics.
    
        
    Special feature: pain. 2006 ;
    
        68–87. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. Chronic Pain Information Page. Acknowledgments NCCAM thanks the following individuals for their technical expertise and review of this publication: Micke Brown, B.S.N, R.N., American Pain Foundation; Daniel Cherkin, Ph.D., Center for Health Studies, Group Health Cooperative, Seattle; Scott Haldeman, D.C., M.D., Ph.D., Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine; John W. Kusiak, Ph.D., National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research; John Glowa, Ph.D., NCCAM; and Partap Khalsa, D.C., Ph.D., NCCAM. This publication is not copyrighted and is in the public domain. Duplication is encouraged. NCCAM has provided this material for your information. It is not intended to substitute for the medical expertise and advice of your primary health care provider. We encourage you to discuss any decisions about treatment or care with your health care provider. The mention of any product, service, or therapy is not an endorsement by NCCAM . * Note: PDF files require a viewer such as the free Adobe Reader . NCCAM Pub No.: D456 Date Created: September 2010 Last Updated: September 2011 Share/bookmark this page: Download PDF Health Topics A–Z Medical Dictionary © istockphoto.com​/​azndc Related Topics Pain Information Statistics on Complementary and Alternative Medicine Use Chronic Pain Information ( NINDS ) Resize text: S M L This page last modified February 06, 2012 Contact Us Privacy and Policies Accessibility Questions? FOIA Información de Salud en Español Site Map NCCAM , 
	National Institutes of Health, 
	9000 Rockville Pike, 
	Bethesda, Maryland 20892 USA,