Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gestational Diabetes - Part 2 Blog Links Forum Shopping HOME WEIGHT LOSS HEALTH NUTRITION FITNESS BEAUTY RECIPES LIFESTYLE Weight Loss Articles Boost metabolism for weight loss 8 Ways to bust a weight loss plateau Top four tips to lose weight What's your healthy weight? Bogus weight loss claims buste d! Weight Loss Resources Weight 
						Loss Books Weight 
							Loss Articles Weight 
							Loss Coach Weight 
							Loss Health Videos Weight 
							Loss Products Weight 
							Loss Directory Weight Loss Tools Body 
						Mass Index Calorie 
							Counter Fat 
							Counter Weight 
							Loss Journal Weight 
							Watchers Points Weight 
							Loss News Today's Weight Loss Tip Weight Loss Sponsors The
							Health Centre Home Health Centre Diabetes Gestational Diabetes Back Treating gestational diabetes Because gestational diabetes can hurt 
					you and your baby, you need to start treatment quickly. 
					Treatment for gestational diabetes aims to keep blood 
					glucose levels equal to those of pregnant women who don't 
					have gestational diabetes. Treatment for gestational 
					diabetes always includes special meal plans and scheduled 
					physical activity. It may also include daily blood glucose 
					testing and insulin injections. You will need help from your 
					doctor, nurse educator, and other members of your health 
					care team so that your treatment for gestational diabetes 
					can be changed as needed. For you as the mother-to-be, 
					treatment for gestational diabetes helps lower the risk of a 
					cesarean section birth that very large babies may require. 
					Sticking with your treatment for gestational diabetes will 
					give you a healthy pregnancy and birth, and may help your 
					baby avoid future poor health. Gestational diabetes -- Looking ahead Gestational diabetes usually goes 
					away after pregnancy. But once you've had gestational 
					diabetes, your chances are 2 in 3 that it will return in 
					future pregnancies. In a few women, however, pregnancy 
					uncovers type 1 or type 2 diabetes. It is hard to tell 
					whether these women have gestational diabetes or have just 
					started showing their diabetes during pregnancy. These women 
					will need to continue diabetes treatment after pregnancy. Many women who have gestational 
					diabetes go on to develop type 2 diabetes years later. There 
					seems to be a link between the tendency to have gestational 
					diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Gestational diabetes and type 
					2 diabetes both involve insulin resistance. Certain basic 
					lifestyle changes may help prevent diabetes after 
					gestational diabetes. Losing weight Are you more 
					than 20% over your ideal body weight? Losing even a few 
					pounds can help you avoid developing type 2 diabetes. Making healthy food choices Follow simple daily guidelines, like eating a variety of 
					foods including fresh fruits and vegetables, limiting fat 
					intake to 30% or less of daily calories, and watching your 
					portion size. Healthy eating habits can go a long way in 
					preventing diabetes and other health problems. Exercising Regular exercise 
					allows your body to use glucose without extra insulin. This 
					helps combat insulin resistance and is what makes exercise 
					helpful to people with diabetes. Never start an exercise 
					program without checking with your doctor first. Keeping worry in perspective While gestational diabetes is a cause 
					for concern, the good news is that you and your health care 
					team - your doctor, obstetrician, nurse educator, and 
					dietitian - work together to lower your high blood glucose 
					levels. And with this help, you can turn your concern into a 
					healthy pregnancy for you, and a healthy start for your 
					baby. Related Links Diabetes and Pregnancy The key to a healthy pregnancy for a woman with diabetes 
					is keeping blood sugar in the target range - both before she 
					is pregnant and during her pregnancy. To do this, you need a 
					diabetes treatment plan that keeps meals, exercise and 
					insulin in balance. Women's sexual health Learn how diabetes can affect your sexual health. Back Fast track weight loss with vegetables in your daily diet Superfood almonds great for weight loss snacks How to choose whole grains for health and weight loss Visit all videos Popular Topics On Weight Loss Health How to get a flat, toned tummy. Cut out hunger with protein. How to snack without getting fat. Tummy fat!  Does it matter? Body shape impact on  weight loss Is your body chemistry making you over weight? Your Weight (kgs) Your Height (cms) Your BMI What does your BMI number mean?  Find out more . Advertising | About Us | Blog | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Forum | Links | Privacy Policy | Shopping Please note Weight Loss Health is not 
					a medical advice service - consult your health practitioner 
					for specific advice.   No reproduction, 
					transmission or display is permitted without the express 
					written permission of the editors of Weight Loss Health.  
					Copyright © 2003- ... b