
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: close
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 05:35:14 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

PCRM | A Natural Approach to Migraines HOME | ABOUT PCRM | DONATE |  SEARCH HEALTH AND NUTRITION Action Alerts Breaking Medical News Health Topics Cancer Resources Diabetes Resources Healthy School Lunches Vegetarian and Vegan Diets Reports and Surveys Clinical Research Studies Health Care Professionals ETHICAL RESEARCH & EDUCATION MEDIA CENTER LEGISLATIVE FOCUS CLINICAL RESEARCH FACT SHEETS AND FAQS MEMBERSHIP SHOP STAY CONNECTED Receive action alerts, breaking medical news, e-newsletters, and special offers via e-mail. A Natural Approach to Migraines Research has shown surprising links between  migraines and food. Certain foods can cause migraines, while others can  prevent or even treat them. Coffee, for example, can sometimes knock out  a migraine and foods rich in magnesium, calcium, complex carbohydrates,  and fiber have been used to cure migraines. Some reports suggest that  ginger—the ordinary kitchen spice—may help prevent and treat migraines  with none of the side-effects of drugs. The herb feverfew also  effectively prevented migraines in placebo-controlled research studies. A migraine is not just a bad headache. It  has a characteristic pattern, usually involving just one side of your  head. It is a throbbing pain rather than a dull, constant ache, often  accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to light and sounds. See your doctor to evaluate your headache,  especially if headaches are new for you, are unusually severe or  persistent, or are accompanied by any of these characteristics: fever a change in your strength, coordination, or senses neck or back pain a chronic run-down feeling with pain in your muscles or joints drowsiness difficulty thinking or concentrating progressive worsening over time the headache awakens you from sleep the headache follows head trauma Find Your Migraine Triggers In 1983, researchers at the Hospital for Sick                 Children in London reported their results for 88 children with severe,                 frequent migraines who began an elimination diet. In this group,                 78 recovered completely, and 4 improved greatly. In addition, some                 children who also had seizures found that their seizures stopped.                 The researchers then reintroduced various foods and found that they                 sparked migraine recurrences in all but eight. In subsequent tests                 using disguised foods, the vast majority of children again became                 symptom-free when trigger foods were avoided. Migraines returned                 when trigger foods were added to the diet. 1 Since that time, additional research has confirmed that dietary                 factors can trigger migraines in children and adolescents. 2 Anywhere between 20 and 50 percent of adults                 experience a reduction or elimination of their headaches when common                 trigger foods are avoided. Pain-Safe Foods Pain-safe foods virtually never contribute to headaches or other painful conditions. These include: Rice, especially brown rice Cooked green vegetables, such as broccoli, spinach, Swiss chard, or collards Cooked orange vegetables, such as carrots or sweet potatoes Cooked yellow vegetables, such as summer squash Cooked or dried non-citrus  fruits: cherries, cranberries, pears, prunes (but not citrus fruits,  apples, bananas, peaches, or tomatoes) Water: Plain water or carbonated forms, such as Perrier, are fine. Other beverages—even herbal teas—can be triggers. Condiments: Modest amounts of salt, maple syrup, and vanilla extract are usually well-tolerated. Common Triggers Common triggers often cause headaches in  susceptible people. Just as some food sensitivities manifest as a rash  on your skin, migraine sufferers have a reaction in the blood vessels  and nerves. Here are the common food triggers, also known as the "Dirty  Dozen," in order of importance: dairy products* chocolate eggs citrus fruits meat** wheat (bread, pasta, etc.) nuts and peanuts tomatoes onions corn apples bananas * Includes skim or whole cow’s milk,                 goat’s milk, cheese, yogurt, etc. ** Includes beef, pork, chicken, turkey, fish, etc. Certain beverages and additives are also  among the worst triggers, including alcoholic beverages (especially red  wine), caffeinated drinks (coffee, tea, and colas), monosodium  glutamate, aspartame (NutraSweet), and nitrites. Foods that are neither on the pain-safe  list nor the common trigger list should be considered possible, but  unlikely, triggers. Almost any common food, other than the pain-safe  list, has triggered migraines in an isolated individual in a research  study, so they cannot be considered completely above suspicion, but they  are far from the most likely culprits. The Two-Week Test The first step in tackling your migraines  is to check whether any of the common triggers are causing them. To do  this, you simply avoid these foods. At the same time, include generous  amounts of pain-safe foods in your routine and see whether migraines  occur, and, if so, how often. Here is how to start with anti-migraine foods. For two weeks: Have an abundance of foods from the pain-safe list. Avoid the common triggers completely. Foods that are not on either list can be eaten freely. The key is to be very careful in avoiding the common triggers. See Foods That Fight Pain by PCRM president Neal Barnard, M.D., for trigger-free recipes. Confirm Your Food Triggers If your diet change makes your headaches  disappear or become much less frequent, the next step is to confirm  which foods are your triggers. To do this, simply reintroduce the  eliminated foods one at a time, every two days, to see whether any  symptoms result. Start at the bottom of the list (bananas), and work  your way up to the riskier foods, skipping any that you do not care for.  If you wish, you can then check the beverages and additives on the  common triggers list. As you do this, have a generous amount of  each new food, so you will know whether or not it causes symptoms. If it  causes no problem, you can keep it in your diet. Anything that causes a  headache should be eliminated again. Then, after a week or two, try the  suspect food once again for confirmation. Keep your diet simple so you  can detect the effect of each newly added food. Meats, dairy products, and eggs are best left                 off your plate permanently. Aside from being among the worst migraine                 triggers, they also tend to disturb your natural hormone balance,                 which contributes to migraines, as we will see shortly. Their cholesterol, fat, and animal proteins                 are linked to serious health concerns including heart disease, high                 blood pressure, osteoporosis, and cancers of the breast, prostate,                 and colon, so there is no need to welcome these problem foods back                 onto your plate. Looking for Other Food Triggers If two weeks on the basic anti-migraine  diet does not reduce your headaches, the next step is to check whether a  food that is not on the list of common migraine triggers may be causing  your symptoms. This occasionally happens and, in fact, some people are  sensitive to several different foods. An elimination diet will help you  sort this out. A Simple Elimination Diet The elimination diet is designed to track  down any unusual pain triggers. It is used for many other conditions, as  well, particularly arthritis and digestive problems. Start by building  your menu entirely from the pain-safe foods, avoiding all others for the  moment. Once your symptoms have gone or  diminished, which may take a week or so, you can add other foods one at a  time, every other day, to see which ones cause symptoms. Again, have a  generous amount of each new food so you can see whether it causes  symptoms. If not, you can keep it in your diet. Hold off adding any  foods on the "Dirty Dozen" list and any of the beverage and additive  triggers until last. Here are some tips to help you identify triggers: Foods that have caused headaches were usually eaten within three to six hours of the attack. The offending foods can be  ones you are very fond of, perhaps even foods for which you have  cravings. They may be the ones you might least suspect. Sometimes the headache will not show up until a large amount of the culprit is eaten, perhaps over a few days. If you are affected by  several foods, eliminating only one may make no difference at all. This  sometimes leads people to believe that foods are not the problem. You might find that you can  have a small amount of a trigger food without getting a headache, while a  larger amount brings on the headache. Your tolerance might be  different at different times. For example, a woman might normally be  able to eat half a box of chocolates with no problem, but as she  approaches her period a single piece might trigger the migraine. The  reason, presumably, is that the natural changes in hormones that occur  over the month affect her sensitivity. Your triggers can change over time. Your doctor can arrange  special blood tests to detect food sensitivities. They can be rather  expensive, but are faster than elimination diets. Information is  available from Serammune Physicians Lab, 1890 Preston White Dr., Reston,  VA 22091, 800-553-5472. Typical skin-patch tests are of little use for  migraine triggers, since they detect only certain kinds of allergies. Feverfew: The Anti-Migraine Herb Feverfew is an herb whose name comes from the                 fact that the ancient Greeks and many later societies used it as                 a treatment for fever. Researchers at the City of London Migraine                 Clinic found that feverfew eliminated about two-thirds of migraines                 in a selected group of headache patients, which is similar to the                 effectiveness of most migraine drugs. 4 However, while                 some people get a pronounced effect, others get none at all. Averaging                 everyone together, it eliminates about one-fourth of all headaches. 5 This does not mean that it will eliminate precisely one-fourth of                 your headaches. It will more likely either have a much more noticeable                 effect or no effect at all. Feverfew is sold at all health food  stores. The amount that has been shown to prevent migraines in research  studies ranges from 50 to 114 milligrams per day. However, most  practitioners use capsules containing about 250 milligrams of a  standardized-potency feverfew, recommending one capsule per day taken on  an empty stomach. If you find fresh leaves, the usual dose is two to  three leaves per day. Thousands of people have used feverfew  over long periods with no apparent ill effects, and research studies  have shown no serious risks. However, there has been little effort to  systematically look for side-effects over prolonged periods. I would  encourage you to avoid it if you are (or might be) pregnant; there is no  indication that it causes birth defects, but not enough data are in to  be sure. Also, people with clotting disorders or who are taking  anticoagulant medicines should consult with their doctors about taking  feverfew. Otherwise, our best information suggests that you can stay on  it indefinitely. Using Foods to Fight Migraines Emphasize pain-safe foods: brown rice;  cooked vegetables, such as broccoli, collards, spinach, and chard; and  cooked or dried non-citrus fruits. Avoid the common trigger  foods completely. If your migraines have diminished or ceased, you can  reintroduce the trigger foods one at a time to assess their effect. If steps one and two did not  diminish your migraines, an elimination diet can help you identify  whether an unusual trigger is causing your problem. Minimize hormone shifts by  avoiding animal products, keeping vegetable oils minimal, and having  plenty of high-fiber whole grains, beans, vegetables, and fruits. Try these supplements, in consultation with your doctor: Feverfew: 250 milligrams per day or two to three fresh leaves. Ginger: 1/2 to 1 teaspoon (1 to 2 grams) of fresh powdered ginger per day. Magnesium: 400 to 700  milligrams per day total (foods plus supplements, if used) or 200  milligrams per day as elemental supplement alone. Calcium: Reduce calcium  losses by avoiding animal protein, caffeine, tobacco, and excess sodium  and sugar. If you wish, you can take 1,000 to 2,000 milligrams per day  of elemental calcium, with 200 IU (5 micrograms) of vitamin D. Regular  physical activity will keep calcium in your bones where it belongs. If a Migraine Hits If a migraine occurs, try the following: Although caffeine can be a migraine  trigger for some people, for others it works as a treatment. The dose is  one to two cups of strong coffee at the first sign of an attack. Have a starchy food, such as  rice, potatoes, crackers, or bread. Yes, wheat products are migraine  triggers for some people, but if you can tolerate them, they might  actually help. Some people find that they actually crave starchy foods  during migraines and that digging into toast, crackers, pasta, potatoes,  or other starchy foods reduces the headache or nausea, and can even  shorten the attack. Experience will tell you whether these foods help. Fresh powdered ginger, 500  to 600 milligrams (about 1/4 teaspoon), in a glass of water has been  helpful in anecdotal reports. It can be repeated every few hours, up to  about 2 grams per day. Calcium might be able to  treat migraines as well as prevent them. Researchers reported a case of a  woman who was able to stop an early migraine by chewing 1,200 to 1,600  milligrams of elemental calcium. 4,5 Again, avoid the  temptation to get calcium from milk, yogurt, or any other animal source.  They cause much more trouble than they are worth. Lie down in a quiet, dark room, and sleep if you can. Use hot or cold compresses, and massage the blood vessels at the temples. Biofeedback and acupuncture have been helpful for many people as well. References 1. Egger J, Carter CM, Wilson J, Turner MW. Is migraine  a food allergy? A double-blind controlled trial of oligoantigenic diet  treatment. Lancet . 1983;2:865-289. 2. Millichap JG, Yee MM. The diet factor in pediatric and adolescent migraine. Pediatr Neurol . 2003;28(1):9-15. 3. Ernst E, Pittler MH. The efficacy and safety of  feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium L.): an update of a systematic review. Public Health Nutr . 2000;3(4A):509-514. 4. Johnson ES, Kadam NP, Hylands DM, Hylands PJ.  Efficacy of feverfew as prophylactic treatment of migraine. Br Med J .  1985;291:569-573. 5. Murphy JJ, Heptinstall S, Mitchell JRA. Randomised  double-blind placebo-controlled trial of feverfew in migraine  prevention. Lancet . 1988;2:189-192. 6. Thys-Jacobs S. Vitamin D and calcium in menstrual migraine. Headache . 1994;34:544-546. 7. Thys-Jacobs S. Alleviation of migraines with therapeutic vitamin D and calcium. Headache . 1994;34:590-592. This site does not provide medical or legal advice. This Web site is for informational purposes only. Full Disclaimer | Privacy Policy Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine 5100 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Ste.400, Washing