
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 13:35:36 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Ways To Kick Cigarettes - Separate The Hype From The Truth | Quit Smoking Quit Smoking Article Ways To Kick Cigarettes - Separate The Hype From The Truth By Expert Author: Alan B. Densky, CH Word Count: 1097 words | Views: 473 view(s) States throughout the country have prohibited smoking in public areas. Hospitals have have dictated that their employees stop smoking, and are sanctioning employees if they smoke at work. Smokers brave bad weather and rain, sleet or snow, and smoke away as hurriedly as they are able in order to go back to work. In some cities, smoking is as controversial as drug addiction. Because they recognize not only these but other stop smoking benefits, numerous smokers have begun attempting to locate ways to stop smoking. Smoking habits consist of three elements: 1. People smoke for relaxation and pleasure. This makes up about 45% of the smoking habit. 2. People smoke because they have created an unconscious association between an activity or environment and a cigarette. Then, when people find themselves in these situations, they desire a cigarette. For instance, an individual may come to associate smoking with their bedtime ritual. They will come to associate smoking with sleep so strongly that it is almost impossible to go to sleep without having a cigarette first. Example: If you watch TV and smoke, the smoking will become a conditioned response to watching TV. So each time you watch TV, you'll feel an urge to smoke. This is the reason for approximately 45 percent of the smoking habit. 3. The final reason people continue to smoke is that they become physically addicted to Nicotine. This element is approximately 10 percent of the smoking habit. Within about three days of quitting smoking, all of the Nicotine has been cleaned from a person's system! Numerous techniques can be used to assist individuals learn ways to quit smoking. Probably the cheapest way to stop smoking, which is reimbursed by the majority of insurance agencies, is the nicotine patch. These easily applied patches are used for 24 hours and can be secreted beneath a person's clothing. The problem with these patches, however, is that patches are not very effective. Because these products only help treat the actual addiction, which makes up merely one-tenth of the reason for which people continue to smoke, only seven percent of smokers will find this method of smoking cessation helpful and effective. The same level of success is characteristic of nicotine gum or lozenges. Fewer than one-tenth of the persons who try these approaches is able to these techniques to quit smoking for at least six months. Additionally, these items sometimes cause adverse effects. Nicotine gum or lozenges, can be harmful to an individual's mouth tissue as well as the lips, and many people experience skin discomfort at the site of the patch. Again, these products treat only the physical dependence, which only comprises approximately 10% of the habit. Still another alternative is the development of counseling and smoking cessation sessions. These sessions include behavior modification techniques and detailed information concerning the negative outcomes of smoking. These strategies are three times as effective as nicotine replacement treatments; nearly one-fourth of smokers will quit for at least six months. Many smokers have tried laser treatment programs to help quit smoking. This method is in some cases paid for by insurance, although it is new. Clinical trials done by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), however, have found that the laser treatments are no more successful than placebo. (Placebo is the effect that occurs when individuals believe they are taking a treatment, but in reality are not.) Another of the ways to quit smoking has shown a little more effectiveness than formerly used methods. In one study, smokers trialed shots to assist them stop smoking by eliminating the 'buzz' of the nicotine rush. This strategy, in the preliminary phases of testing for benefit, thus far seems to be helpful for 15% of the persons who trialed it. Hypnosis is an alternative approach to assisting people to stop smoking. Hypnosis deals with teaching the subconscious mind to automatically substitute alternative activities to provide calm and peace, rather than the cigarette habit. It is also utilized to remove or "extinguish" conditioned behaviors such as the connection described between cigarettes and activities as described earlier, so the smoker loses the desire to smoke when in the locations that previously trigger it. Men seem to have better results with stop smoking hypnosis than female clients do. One benefit of self hypnosis stop smoking, however, is that, unlike persons employ nicotine replacement as strategies to stop smoking, there are no undesirable side effects. Another helpful characteristic of hypnotherapy is that it is effective against the nine-tenths part of the dependence that is psychological, versus the other methods that only work against the one-tenth aspect of the dependence that is physical. This is why hypnosis offers a noticeably greater treatment success than the previously mentioned methods of smoke cessation. Conventional hypnosis approaches can provide a 35 percent success rate, while Ericksonian hypnotherapy can result in a fifty percent or greater treatment success. A recently introduced, innovative, and certainly better alternative that coaches people to conquer a smoking dependency is Neuro-Linguistic Programming, or NLP. This technique is much more helpful than established styles of quit smoking hypnosis because it avoids reliance on post-hypnotic suggestions at all. The majority of clients, such as people whose thoughts are critical thinkers, do not easily accept post-hypnotic suggestions. With NLP, the unconscious is trained to focus on the identical cognitive processes that result in the psychological addiction to smoking, to obliterate it! A well-designed NLP stop smoking strategy created by a trained NLP professional can result in a success rate of up to 70 percent or more. Summary: The majority of smoking cessation courses try to employ nicotine replacement products as ways to stop smoking. Other strategies, like smoking cessation and cognitive or behavioral treatment programs, work to assist the mind learn ways to quit smoking. Although hypnosis works much better than alternative programs, especially with male clients, it is not considered to be the most helpful way to stop smoking. NLP, which treats the mental aspects of the smoking habit, actually assists individuals to change their cognitive patterns and assist them stop most effectively. Because nine-tenths of a person's dependence on cigarettes is psychological in nature, these methods are significantly more successful than merely replacing the nicotine and dealing with the one-tenth part of the habit that is physiological. Conclusion: A number of smoking cessation courses, including nicotine replacement treatments and counseling exist. These methods typically have a success rate of less than 20%. In contrast, hypnotherapy offers a consideratbly greater rate of effectiveness. NLP offers an even higher degree of effectiveness in assisting people to successfully combat the mental component of their addiction and find significantly more success in realizing their goal of becoming smoke-free. About the Author: Alan B. Densky, CH Alan B. Densky, CH is the developer of the easy way to stop smoking with NLP. He offers a powerful Quit Dipping Tobacco program based on those same methods. Learn more at his Neuro-VISION hypnotherapy site where you can see Free hypnotherapy videos and articles. Article Source: http://www.articlesphere.com/Article/Ways-To-Kick-Cigarettes---Separate-The-Hype-From-The-Truth/243075 Article Tags: how to quit smoking , ways to quit smoking , stop smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , hypnotherapy , nlp , health This Article has been viewed 473 times. Tweet Related Videos Play Video Weight Gain After Quitting Smoking Play Video Nicotine Addiction After Quitting Smoking Play Video Deepak Chopra on How to Quit Smoking Play Video How Much Do Quitting Smoking Medicine Costs Play Video Quitting Smoking Medicine Related Articles Listed below are more articles related to the above article from the "Quit Smoking" article category. People interested in the above article "Ways To Kick Cigarettes - Separate The Hype From The Truth" are also interested in the related articles listed below: Home Remedies For Quit Smoking - Get Rid Of This Habit Naturally Smoking is a very unhealthy habit and many people would like to quit it. Unfortunately, nicotine addiction is very powerful and people who want to get rid of it often need additional help. Will power and determination are the key ingredients that will help you quit smoking, but sometimes home remedies for quit smoking can also give a helpful hand and make the process easier. Licorice sticks can be very useful because they can be chewed when the need to smoke occurs and they can trick the brain into forgetting about cigarettes. COPD: How To Treat Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, or COPD, is a long-term health condition that occurs as a result of injury to the lungs. This term is utilized to identify three medical diagnoses classified as COPD. These are emphysema, asthma, and chronic bronchitis. Asthma occurs when the body perceives part of the environment, such as pet dander, cigarette smoke, or dust, as dangerous. The immune system begins to release biochemicals known as histamines. Histamines cause inflammation in the lungs to help the body fight invaders. This stiffens the lungs and impairs breathing. Cigarette Smoking Side Effects - How To Easily Beat The Habit Using Self-Hypnosis Smoking is a dangerous and addictive habit that affects millions of people around the world. Today, we are aware of the dangers of smoking, and smokers are urged to stop smoking for the benefit of their own health. This is not an easy feat, as smokers begin at an extremely young age. The average age of a new smoker is only thirteen years old. Giving up Smoking to Ease Depression Every year hundreds of thousands of the people around the world die from smoking, as there is a renowned phrase 'Smoking Kills.' In United States of America, smoking cigarette is the most vital preventative cause of the premature deaths. Smoking - The Ties That Bind Many people have developed some rather interesting habits over the years, but one habit that should be avoided is smoking. Unfortunately, there are plenty of people who have already fallen into this trap and need a way out. Luckily, there are ways to quit smoking if one is to accomplish this, they will need to seek out these methods and perhaps even look at natural ways to quit smoking. How To Stop Smoking Cigarettes If you are one of the millions of people out there who smoke you may not want to admit it. Quitting smoking is going to be one of the hardest things that you ever do, but it will be well worth it once you have accomplished your goal. Smoking is so dangerous to your health, and even to the health of those around you. It can cause everything from bronchitis and heart disease to emphysema and cancer. Ways to Quit Smoking: Do Electronic Cigarettes Really Help? Smoking is injurious to health but it is also an addictive habit and this makes it all the more difficult when you decide that you want to quit it completely. Quitting smoking takes enormous determination because the tendency to get back to smoking is stronger. One of the most effective quit smoking products is electronic cigarettes. Print Article Favorite Article Email to Friend Republish Article Article Directory Home All Categories Health And Fitness Quit Smoking Ways To Kick Cigarettes - Separate The Hype From The Truth Can't find what you're looking for? Try Google Search! (We serve worldwide - 
   Locations updated as at Monday, 13 February 2012 11:35 pm
, Singapore) United States of America, USA . United Kingdom, UK (England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland) . Canada . Afghanistan .
    Albania . Algeria . American Samoa . Andorra . Angola . Anguilla . Antarctica . Antigua & Barbuda . Argentina . 
    Armenia . Aruba . Australia . Austria . Azerbaijan . Bahamas . Bahrain . Bangladesh . Barbados . Belarus .
    Belgium . Belize . Benin . Bermuda . Bhutan . Bolivia . Bonaire . Bosnia-Herzegovina . Botswana . Brazil . British 
    Virgin Islands . Brunei Darrusalam . Bulgaria . Burkina Faso . Burundi . Cambodia . Cameroon . Cape Verde . Cayman
    Islands . Central African Republic . Chad . Channel Islands . Chile . China . Christmas Island . Colombia . Comoros . 
    Congo . Congo (Dem. Rep.) . Cook Islands . Costa Rica . Cote d'Ivoire . Croatia . Cuba . Curacao . Cyprus . Czech 
    Republic . Denmark . Djibouti . Dominica . Dominican Republic . East Timor . Ecuador . Egypt . El Salvador . 
    Equatorial Guinea . Eritrea . Estonia . Ethiopia . Falkland Islands and Dependencies . Faroe Islands . Fiji . Finland .
    France . French Guiana  . French Polynesia . Gabon . Gambia . Gaza . Georgia . Germany . Ghana . Gibraltar . Greece . 
    Greenland . Grenada . Guadeloupe . Guam . Guatemala . Guinea . Guinea-Bissau . Guyana . Haiti . Hawaiian Islands . 
    Honduras . Hong Kong . Hungary . Iceland . India . Indonesia . Iran . Iraq . Isle Of Man . Israel . Italy . 
    Ivory Coast . Jamaica . Japan . Johnston Atoll . Jordan . Kazakhstan . Kenya . Kiribati . Korea (North) . 
    Korea (South) . Kuwait . Kyrgyzstan . Laos . Latvia . Lebanon . Leeward Islands . Lesotho . Liberia . Libya . 
    Liechtenstein . Lithuania . Luxembourg . Macau . Macedonia . Madagascar . Malawi . Malaysia . Maldives . Mali . 
    Malta . Marshall Islands . Martinique . Mauritania . Mauritius . Mexico . Micronesia (Federated States) . Midway 
    Islands . Moldova . Monaco . Mongolia . Montserrat . Morocco . Mosquito Coast . Mozambique . Myanmar (Burma) . 
    Namibia . Nauru . Navassa Island . Nepal . Netherlands . Netherlands Antilles . New Caledonia . New Zealand . 
    Nicaragua . Niger . Nigeria . Niue . Norfolk Island . Northern Mariana Islands . Norway . Oman . Pakistan . Palau . 
    Palestine . Panama . Papua New Guinea . Paracel Islands . Paraguay . Peru . Philippines . Pitcairn Islands . Poland .
    Portugal . Puerto Rico . Qatar . Reunion . Romania . Russia . Rwanda . Ryukyu Islands . Saint Helena . Saint Kitts 
    and Nevis . Saint Lucia . Saint Pierre & Miquelon . Saint Vincent & The Grenadines . Samoa . San Marino . Sao Tome & 
    Principe . Saudi Arabia . Senegal . Serbia . Seychelles . Sierra Leone . Singapore . Slovakia . Slovenia . Solomon 
    Islands . Somalia . South Africa . Spain . Sri Lanka . Sudan . Suriname . Swaziland . Sweden . Switzerland . Syria .
    Taiwan . Tajikistan . Tanzania . Thailand . Togo . Tonga . Transkei . Trinidad & Tobago . Tunisia . Turkey . 
    Turkmenistan . Turks and Caicos Islands . Tuvalu . US Virgin Islands . Uganda . Ukraine . United Arab Emirates . 
    Upper Volta . Uruguay . Uzbekistan . Vanuatu . Vatican City (Holy See) . Venezuela . Vietnam . Wake Island . 
    Windward Islands . Yemen . Yugoslavia . Zaire . Zambia . Zimbabwe Copyright © 2005 - by Larry Lim, Singapore - Article Search Engine Directory at ArticleSphere.com™ All Rights Reserved Worldwide. All Trademarks