Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Muscle Cramp: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment Sport Injuries Dislocation Muscle-Cramp Sprains Fractures Muscle-Strain Tenosynovitis Bruise Muscle-Ache Pulled-Muscle Torn-Ligament Muscle  Cramp: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment Muscle Cramp Too much exercise and a  loss of electrolytes (e.g. magnesium) can cause a muscle cramp. Sudden pain,  inability to move and hardening of the muscle are signs of a muscle cramp. A  muscle cramp is an intense, long contraction of the musculature. It can happen  during as well as after physical strain. Muscle cramps are caused by a local  metabolic disorder of the muscle. Inadequate blood supply affects the  metabolism of the muscle. As a result the muscles are unable to contract and  relax properly. A protective mechanism causes the muscle fibres to contract  strongly if they are overstrained. However, during this strong contraction the  blood vessels in the muscles are pushed together which further affects blood  circulation. It becomes a vicious circle of muscle tension and a gradual  decrease in blood circulation which ultimately leads to a muscle cramp. Symptoms Sudden       pain Inability       to move Hardening       of the affected muscle top Sports Injury Handbook : Professional Advice for Amateur Athletes Treatment Stretch the affected muscle intensely for 10 to 20 seconds in the opposite direction of the cramp.This causes a reflex to develop which leads to an automatic relaxation of the cramped muscle. Thereafter  do flexibility exercises, apply heat to the muscle and gently massage it. Prevention Warm up       properly Stretch Sufficient       intake of liquid and electrolytes (e.g. magnesium and calcium) by drinking       mineral water A       well-balanced diet. Is it necessary to go to the doctor because of a  muscle cramp? You should consult the  doctor if the muscle cramps occur repeatedly without any obvious reason or if  you feel that the muscle cramps are caused by the intake of medication. top Sports Medicine Bible : Prevent, Detect, and Treat Your Sports Injuries Through the Latest Medical Techniques Home Diets Diet Why are diets rarely successful? What do we offer? Nutrition • Fats • Carbohydrate • Protein • Vitamins • Minerals • Trace Elements • Calorie Tables Fitness • Washboard Abs • Sport Injurys • Exercise Machines • Inline-Skating • Training-Methods Relaxation Techniques Calculate BMI (Body-Mass-Index) Health Alternative 
            Medicine Diseases Beauty and Wellness Add this side to my favorites Imprint, Copyright Recommend Sit