Connection: close

Lap Band Surgery Consultation New York Obesity Surgery Products Free Information Seminar Lap Band Surgery Consultation New York Why we're Different Four of the country's leading bariatric surgeons are practicing in Long Island and have joined to form the New York Bariatric Group. Providing
									surgical options such as laparoscopic banding, sleeve gastrectomy and gastric bypass, our surgeons represent New York's elite institution for
									the treatment of morbid obesity. Our surgeons are not only recognized in New York as leading bariatric surgeons, but are also recipients of multiple national awards and commendations.
									They have trained other bariatric surgeons around the country, and are actively sought out for their experience and expertise in all areas of the field
									including LAP-BAND© adjustable gastric banding, sleeve gastrectomy and gastric bypass. Our physicians are the preeminent bariatric surgeons in New York and the surrounding region. Regardless of which bariatric procedure you may decide
									on – whether it be LAP-BAND© adjustable gastric banding, revisional surgery, sleeve gastrectomy or gastric bypass – the surgeons of The New York Bariatric
									Group have the technology, talent, and experience to provide you with top quality surgical care. LEARN MORE >> How can New York Bariatric help me? New York's Top Laparoscopic Weight Loss Surgeons offer the following services: Single Incision Gastric Banding Single Incision Gastric Banding Single incision gastric band surgery with less pain, little or no scarring, since
													there is no need to cut through the stomach muscle, recovery is much shorter. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Is an advanced minimally invasive approach in which the surgeon operates exclusively
													via a single entry point through the "belly button". Single incision gastric band
													surgery with less pain.. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Banded Plication Banded Plication The New York Bariatric Group continues to work to advance the treatment of obesity.
													The New York Bariatric Group is introducing a new study designed to evaluate gastric
													plication as a method of significantly improving weight loss with the adjustable gastric band. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Endoflip Endoflip The New York Bariatric Group is pleased to once again be the first Practice in
													the entire Northeast of the United States to introduce a new technique to improve
													weight loss in adjustable gastric band patients called the Endoflip. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Rose Procedure Rose Procedure Your stomach pouch or stoma (the connection between the pouch and small intestine)
													may have stretched out in the years since your original surgery, reducing the feeling
													of fullness after you eat. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Stomaphyx Stomaphyx This revolutionary procedure is now available for individuals who have had previous
													gastric bypass surgery and who are regaining weight. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Revisional Bariatric Surgery Revisional Bariatric Surgery We are please to announce a new educational seminar on Bariatric Revisional Surgery
													Procedures have been added to our event calendar. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Sleeve Gastrectomy Sleeve Gastrectomy Laparoscopic gastric sleeve resection is a much newer procedure in which we would be
													removing about 75 to 80 percent of the volume of the stomach, while maintaining the
													natural openings into and out of the stomach. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Band over Bypass Band over Bypass The good news is that hundreds of thousands of patients who ordinarily would have
													suffered poor health as the result of their obesity have been helped. The bad news
													is that tens of thousands of those patients many having been treated with the “gold
													standard procedure of weight loss surgery” the gastric bypass have been unable to
													sustain the success of their initial surgery. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Endoscopy/Colonoscopy Endoscopy/Colonoscopy The New York Bariatric Group has a AAAASF and New York State certified endoscopy
													suite in it's main office with a board certified anesthesiologist and offer endoscopy
													and colonoscopy. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Botox Botox Cosmetic injections are one of the most popular non-surgical aesthetic enhancement procedures in
													the U.S. Women and men who are affected by crow’s feet, frown lines, wrinkles, and other signs of
													facial aging can attain significant aesthetic enhancement and a more youthful, refreshed appearance
													with BOTOX® injections. Plus, BOTOX® Cosmetic can provide almost instantaneous results from a
													treatment process that can be performed over your lunch hour! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 Juvederm Juvederm Juvederm® is one of the more recent dermal fillers to become available, and it’s quickly becoming
													one of the most popular. Both women and men wishing to reduce the appearance of aging in the face
													can achieve a more youthful appearance with Juvederm®. Juvederm® is an injectable dermal filler
													that can fill in fine lines and deep wrinkles, as well as add volume to facial features and enhance
													the appearance of the lips. Juvederm® works to provide both a soft look and smooth feel, and the
													results are known to be long-lasting. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 888.852.7226 What causes Obesity? Causes of Obesity Obesity could be a combination of the following: The genes you inherited from your parents How well your body turns food into energy Your eating and exercising habits Your surroundings Psychological factors Consequences of Obesity If you are obese, severely obese, or morbidly obese, you may have: Major health risks Risks to your psychological and social well being Difficulties with day-to-day living FAQ's To Get Started Call 888.852.7226 What is the worst thing that can happen with weight loss surgery? The worst thing that can happen is that someone could die, but the risk of surgery
												is much less than the risk of staying obese. It is very important to choose a bariatric
												surgeon that is a leader in the field and experienced in handling complications that can
												arise during obesity surgery, at the New York Bariatric Group, our specialists certainly
												meet these criteria. Potential complications include but are not limited to, the risk of
												anesthesia, infection, bleeding, blood clots, hernias, and wound complications. This is
												not a stated to frighten you, but to remind you that this is a big decision and not
												without risk. Why consider surgery for obesity? Obesity is a very serious medical disease. The alternative to living with obesity would
												not be any more of an option than living with treatable cancer or heart disease. There are
												many negative impacts of severe obesity on an individual’s life. Obesity can damage muscles,
												bones, and internal organs. The chance of heart disease, diabetes, sleep apnea, infertility,
												osteoarthritis, insufficiency, gall bladder disease, and certain types of cancer are increased
												by obesity. As your weight increases, the risk of medical problems also increase. There are
												also many social and psychological implications of being obese. Prejudice at school and at
												the workplace is not uncommon, and instances of depression increase in those affected by
												morbid obesity. Recent published studies show that severely overweight individuals have
												a life expectancy of ten years less than non-obese members of the population. The National
												Institute of Health had a consensus conference statement on morbid obesity and determined
												that surgery is the only effective means of weight loss for patients that suffer from morbid
												obesity. Gastric Bypass surgery can prevent progression and mortality associated with Type-2
												Diabetes in morbidly obese adults. With medical weight loss most patients lose weight, only
												to relapse and regain their weight. Exercise and making better food choices are still
												important, but surgery is a great aid in helping patients reach their goals of living a
												longer and healthier life.  At the New York Bariatric Group we go a step further, we
												believe that the most effective long term success in weight loss is achieved by exposing
												the patient to a multi-disciplinary team approach. We combine surgery with sound pre-surgery
												education and superior post-operative support, helping patients maximize their weight
												loss and adjust to the lifestyle change. When should surgery be considered? No patient should consider surgery unless they have failed multiple attempts at weight loss
												or other methods, only then is surgery a good option. There are many reasons for exploring
												surgery for obesity, some people have serious illnesses such as diabetes, sleep apnea,
												hypertension, or degenerative joint disease caused by excess weight. For others, the primary
												motivation is the psychological impact the weight is having on their life. Whatever the reason,
												it is essential to realize that surgery for obesity is a major operation that can have
												complications. The first step in considering any kind of surgery should always be self-education.
												We have created many patient education tools that can be found on our website. If you meet the
												criteria for weight loss surgery your next step should be to register for one of our free seminars
												held each month throughout the metropolitan New York/Long Island area or online on our website. How can surgery make me lose weight? There are two ways the gastrointestinal track can be altered to cause weight loss. The stomach
												can be made smaller so the person feels more full after eating less food, the second mechanism
												is bypassing a portion of the intestines that the food comes in contact with, as a result you
												do not absorb all of the calories that you eat thus malabsorption occurs. Different operations
												use these two mechanisms in various ways, some operations are pure gastric restrictive procedures,
												and many others combine gastric restriction with moderate malabsorption. It is important to realize
												that there is no perfect operation, which is why we discuss the advantages and disadvantages of
												all potential procedures with our patients. Together we can decide which best addresses your
												particular needs. What are the risks of surgery? We wish to emphasize to our patients, that all Bariatric operations are major procedures and have
												serious risks. The national average mortality rate for gastric bypass surgery is 0.5% or 1 in 200.
												For Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding the risk is 0.05% or only 1 in 2,000. Major early
												complications are rare but include leaking of intestinal contents causing infection and requiring
												additional surgery. Other risks include bleeding, blood clots, and any other complications that
												may occur after major gastric surgery. Wound complications, infections, and hernias are also rare
												but can occur. Additionally there is the risk of malnutrition and vitamin deficiency with gastric
												bypass surgery. While most of these issues rarely arise, the major point is that these procedures
												should only be done when necessary and by doctors who have experience in this area. More Information For more information please: Call 888.852.7226 for consultation* Register for a free Information Seminar Chat instantly with a live customer representative CONTACT US Call Now For Consultation Consultation are not free, but are paid for by insurance. 888.852.7226 Questions and Answers Have a question? We have advice. Ask Now Free Information Seminar More Info Success Stories My biggest frustration today is that I didn’t do this surgery sooner. As a builder, I can now walk through the framing studs in my buildings. My diabetes? GONE! Heel Spurs?
											GONE! High Blood Pressure? GONE! I can now walk into a regular clothing store and buy clothes. People who know me don’t recognize me. To be honest with you, I’m sick of
											talking about it! — Doug , Southampton, NY Success Stories I was downtown on 9/11 and couldn’t run to save my life. My co-workers had to help me. Since I’ve lost the weight, people finally notice me. I love to buy new clothes and
											walking down the street is a pleasure, I finally get noticed and get attention that I had wanted for so many years. — Cindy , Lynbrook, NY Success Stories Life after obesity is just wonderful! Dieting? I’ve done it all: Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig, the Atkins Diet, and the grapefruit diet and I always gained the weight back.
											Now, since the surgery, I’ve finally lost the weight for good, and I’m not worried about gaining the weight back. Dr. Garber has a comprehensive program and a staff that
											helps you before and AFTER your surgery. Now I can shop in regular stores and waking up thin means that all of my clothes fit every day! — Linda , Seaford, NY Linda Meet The Team Shawn M. Garber MD, FACS, FASMBS Dr. Garber has performed more than 3500 gastric bypass procedures and 2000 Lap-Band® procedures. Spencer A. Holover MD, FACS, FASMBS Dr. Holover has performed over 700 Gastric Bypass procedures and over 400 Lap-Band procedures Javier Andrade MD Specializes in bariatric surgery and surgical endoscopy John D. Angstadt MD, FACS, FASMBS Performed over 600 weight loss procedures including Gastric Bypass, Adjustable Gastric Banding and Sleeve Gastrectomy Joseph Gaudio MD Board certified anesthesiologist. *Consultations are not free, but are paid for by insurance. ABOUT TRUST ONLINE Sign-Up Obesity Surgery Bariatric Program Photos/Videos The Practice Webcast Store Forums Contact Us BMI Calculator Privacy Statement New York Bariatric Group - Bariatric Surgeons - New Hyde Park, New York are interested in the privacy and safety of our visitors. Our Web site contains forms through which users may request information or supply feedback to us. In some cases, telephone numbers or return are required so that we can supply requested information to you, and in other cases, correct names and addresses are required to process credit card payments. We may also track where you go or what you read in our Web site so that we can supply you with effective follow up information, but only if you have given us explicit permission to do so by filling out a form that asks you if we may do so. If you have any questions about our privacy policy or our use of information gathered through our Web site, please contact our Webmaster at stephanie@nybariatric.com Contact Us 3003 New Hyde Park Road Suite 307 New Hyde Park, NY 11042 67 North Irving Place 10th Floor New York, NY 10003 200 Belle Terre Road Suite 200 Port Jefferson, NY 11777 Click here to see map Click here to see map Click here to see map Phone: 888.8.LAP-BAND (888-852-7226) FAX: 516.616.5533 Copyright 2011 The New York Bari