<http://www.newcolonsweep.com/ibs-info/?p=115>; rel=shortlink
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

All About Aloe Vera – Nature’s Soothing Agent | IBS Information Home All About Aloe Vera – Nature’s Soothing Agent Aloe Vera has long been a popular houseplant. It is a succulent plant, a member of the lily and onion family. Aloe Vera has been found described in writings in many different cultures and as far back as the Greek, Egyptians, and Roman eras. References have also been found in writings from the Indian and Chinese early cultures. I remember my Mother grabbing a piece off her aloe Vera plant and applying its gel to a burn or minor wound. The aloe Vera gel comes from the inner portion of the leaves. For pharmaceutical use as a laxative, the aloe juice is taken from the tubules just beneath the outer skin of the leaves. It’s a bitter yellow and dried to become aloe granules that are dark brown in color. This is from being exposed to the sun Aloe gel has been used for topical treatment for minor wounds and burns and skin irritations for centuries. Made into a beverage and taken internally, it has been used to help many other conditions. Some of them are constipation, ulcers, diabetes, headaches, arthritis, and coughs. Taking aloe internally does have side effects, which can include pain, electrolyte imbalances, and diarrhea. There have been scientific studies made to determine whether aloe gel can influence wound healing if taken internally. There isn’t enough evidence to determine if it does promote healing from the inside out, but enough testing has been done to know that it does if applied externally help with treating the above mentioned conditions. It has been determined that it can also help with treating minor vaginal irritations. Some key points to remember about aloe Vera are: Internal use of aloe gel has not been successfully proven to be effective against any disease. Aloe latex, another derivative of the aloe Vera plant has been approved by the FDA in use in over the counter laxatives. Aloe skin care products have not been scientifically proven to be effective as per their claims. Aloe Vera has been given wonderful names such as the Burn Plant, Medicine Plant, Plant of Life and Wand of Heaven plant. Cleopatra was said to have used aloe-vera in their regular daily beauty routines. Aloe supplies were said to have been used by Alexander the Great to treat his wounded soldiers. Aloe Vera is best used when used fresh from the plant. It doesn’t store well but can be bought as a preserved product. Aloe Vera can be used topically as well as taken internally, although as mentioned there is no concrete scientific proof of healing form the inside out. It has been used for mouth sores, what we call stomach sores, or cold sores. Aloe Vera has been especially helpful of patients with severe and various skin diseases. It acts as a rejuvenating action. It acts as a moisturizer and hydrates the skin. After being absorbed into the skin, it stimulates the fibroblasts cells and causes them to regenerate themselves faster. It’s the cells that that produce the collagen and elastin so the skin will get smoother and look younger. Irritable Bowel Syndrome is said to affect as many as 12 million people just in Britain alone. Symptoms include: Swollen abdomen Unpleasant tastes in mouth Diarrhea alternating between diarrhea and constipation A diminished appetite Stomach pains that occur low in the abdomen and frequently. Gas and belching along with a rumbling in the gut in the bowel area. General feeling of depression and lethargy. Heartburn Because Aloe Vera is natural, it works gently within the intestinal tract to help break down food residues that have become impacted and help clean out the bowel. When the bowel is cleaned out, it greatly reduces bloating, discomfort, and helps ease stress, which only leads to more attacks of irritable bowel syndrome. The sufferer of Irritable Bowel Syndrome must also begin watching his or her diet, as there are some foods that are triggers for an attack. We should stress that professional help should be obtained at the earliest onset of abdominal problems and pains. James Calvin http://www.articlesbase.com/advice-articles/all-about-aloe-vera-natures-soothing-agent-77121.html Share and Enjoy: Tags: ibs , ibs cure , ibs relief , natural ibs cure IBS Articles Acid Reflux Links With IBS Colon Cleanse for IBS Symptoms Constipation As A Sign Of IBS Dealing with IBS and Constipation Through Natural Methods Food IBS Sufferers Should Avoid Got IBS? Try Exercise Herbal Remedies For IBS IBS With Constipation Symptoms Is Difficult To Treat Irritable Bowel Syndrome Symptoms: a New Hope Natural Remedies For Irritable Bowel Syndrome Migraine Recent Posts Is This A Symptom of Irritable Bowel Syndrome? How can I keep my IBS under control? Good foods for someone who has IBS and must have a gluten-free diet? I have IBS that gives me diorehha and my bowels keep emptying. How can I put weight on? Has anyone any helpfull information on irritable bowel syndrome? what kind of whole grain cereal would not affect my IBS? what kind of foods should be avoided for IBS? How can a person with IBS lower the bad cholesterol? Irritable bowel syndrome in a child? Has anyone had sucessful treatment for severe ibs? Can anyone describe the symptoms/treatment for Irritable Bowel Syndrome? How do you know if you have it? How come the IBS left when I got to be pregnant? Can having ibs cause sensitivity  to motion? We think my boyfriend may have irritable bowel syndrome :( Which foods are worst to eat? What should I eat before a morning run when I have IBS? What are the main differences between gastritis and Irritable Bowel Syndrome? Is it normal to have IBS after having a baby? What would cause urgent bowel movements beside IBS? has anyone got so bloated with Irritable bowel syndrome? Is there any kind of remedy for Iritable bowel syndrome (IBS) without going to the doctor? Herbal Remedies For IBS Got Ibs? Try Exercise Irritable Bowel Syndrome Symptoms: a New Hope I have IBS and Lactose intolerance, and possibly an intolerance to wheat, what premixed alcholol can I drink? Colon Cleanse for IBS Symptoms Natural Remedies For Irritable Bowel Syndrome Migraine Acid Reflux Links With Ibs Food Irritable Bowel Syndrome Sufferers Should Avoid Do you think I have irritable bowel syndrome? What is the best medication/ solution for "irritable bowel syndrome."? Does IBS -Diarrhoea have an effect on the contraceptive pill? What is the best way to manage irritable bowel syndrome? How can I help my boyfriend understand my IBS? How can I reduce or get rid of my IBS problem? Are the peppermint oil studies for IBS inconclusive? Is there a Natural cure for IBS? hi what is irritable bowel syndrome and what is the treatment ? How do I find a hynotherapist for irritable-bowel syndrome? Also, how do I find a hypnotic sleep tape? How do you or your loved ones deal with IBS? For a couple of months now i have had unusual bowel movement do i have IBS? Is it possible to have irritable bowel syndrome without abdominal pain? Interstitial Cystitis and Irritable Bowel Syndrome? How have your experiences been with Lexapro anti-anxiety medication for IBS? How Can I know if my dog has Irritable Bowel Syndrome or Inflammatory Bowel Disease? If i do strengthening everyday, how much Ibs muscle do you think I can gain a week? With irritable bowel syndrome do you find you fart more then others? Will IBS reduce the effectiveness of my contraceptive pill? what is the nursing care plan for patient who in irritable bowel syndrome? I am on medicine to help with stomach pain from IBS what happens if it doesnt work? I have Irritable Bowel Syndrome and also problems with my kidney, how can I know which organ is aching? How long have you gone without eating, just to avoid dealing with an IBS flair up? What foods should I stay away from if I have Irritable Bowel Syndrome? Probiotics: What are the side effects and benefits? How about for people with IBS etc? Does IBS cause anxiety and depression, or the other way round? What causes Irritable Bowel Syndrome? What foods commonly trigger IBS attacks? Is there a good home treatment for Irritable Bowel Syndrome? Is there a link between IBS and low blood sugar? Can menstrual cramping be caused by irritable bowel syndrome? What makes IBS so different to Crohn's disease or Coeliac, symptom wise? How long does Irritable Bowel Syndrome last? i have ibs-constipation and would like to know what medications others are taking? Any good ways to reduce my IBS symptoms? Food That Cause Bloating What are some teas that can soothe irritable bowel syndrome? What shall i do about Ibs and its symptoms? Colon Cleansing Is Essential – Taking Care Of Your Insides The Benefits/Challenges Of Detoxification Information From Dr. Mark Hyman M.D. Is irritable bowel syndrome and diverticulosis the same thing? Colon Health: Why Colon Cleanse Can Almost Always Boost Your Well Being Do you have any suggestions on how to live with IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome)? What exactly is IBS and celiac disease? What are symptoms? Sudden Constipation: America's New Epidemic? All About Aloe Vera – Nature's Soothing Agent What does irritable bowel syndrome feel like? Can IBS cause stomach to be sensitive to touch and nausea during flare up? Dual Action Cleanse Review Instantly Avoid More Toxic Load to your Body? Sex and Colon Cleansing Interested In Botanical Crohns Relief? Gallbladder Removed? Five Important Things You Can Do. Finding Relief From Chronic Constipation With Zelnorm What's the best cure for Irritable Bowel Syndrome? How do others deal with IBS? Probiotics,  The Mini Miracle The Possible Causes of Right Side Back Pain Six Common Questions About Colon Cleansing Herbal Medicines for Chronic Fatigue Syndrome The Candida Yeast Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Connection - Are You At Risk? Can one suddenly develop irritable bowel syndrome? How will IBS affect my life? What changes to my diet should I make? Why Reducing Lactose Intake May Alleviate Ibs Symptoms Bowel Cancer - a Genetic Disease What are the signs of Irritable Bowel Syndrome? Ibs And Acupuncture Irritable Bowel Syndrome So, You Have An Irritable Bowel, Treat Or Relieve Symptoms With These Methods. Irritable Bowel Syndrome Many People in the World Today Suffer From IBS Bloating, Indigestion, Acid Stomach and Irritable Bowel Syndrome All Have Too Much Vata and Pitta what is florostor?  Is it good for irritable bowel syndrome? How do you go about telling your friends you have IBS? How To Find Relief From Ibs Constipation What Can I Do About My Irritable Bowel Syndrome? any good home remedies for irritable  bowel syndrome? How much fiber should I be having per day for IBS? Finding Relief From Ibs Cramping Tags best ibs cure best remedies for ibs causes of ibs causes of irritable bowel syndrome chronic constipation relief colon cleanse colon cleanser colon cleansing colon health colon hydrotherapy constipation constipation cure constipation problem constipation relief constipation remedy constipation signs constipation symptoms cure for irritable bowel syndrome detox detoxification herbal remedies for ibs ibs ibs causes ibs cure ibs relief ibs remedy ibs signs ibs symptoms ibs treatment ibs treatments ibs triggers irritable bowel syndrome irritable bowel syndrome cure irritable bowel syndrome signs irritable bowel syndrome symptoms irritable bowel syndrome treatment natural ibs cure natural ibs relief natural ibs treatment natural remedy for irritable bowel syndrome signs of irritable bowel syndrome symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome treatment for irritable bowel syndrome treatments for constipation IBS Categories Irritable Bowel Syndrome Constipation | Affiliate Program | SiteMap | Privacy | Contact Us Blogs: Colon Health | Colon Cleanse | Colon Cleanser | Colon Cleansing | Constipation | IBS | Laxatives NewColonSweep.com All Rights Reserved | Natural Health Products Web Designer DiscountWebDesigner.com Search Engine