< Previous 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next > Dan Zhi Xiao Yao Yin Combined With Auricular-Point-Pressing for Treatment of Optic Atrophy - A Clinical Observation of 51 Cases JTCM December 2004 78/55 Yang Haiyan (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Case Examples from the Clinic of Professor Zhou Zhongying: Insomnia Case Examples from the Clinic of Professor Zhou Zhongying: Insomnia By Zhu Minwei Find out more £4.00 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Role of the Du channel in treating senile dementia JTCM September 2006 by Lu Fan (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Acupuncture treatment of Jacksonian epilepsy - a report of 98 cases JTCM September 2006 by Ren Yongxia (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Acupuncture Treatment of Obesity JTCM December 2005 by Hu Jinsheng (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Forty cases of simple obesity treated by acupuncture JTCM March 2006 by He Li et al (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Treatment of cholelithiasis by acupuncture and oral decoction JTCM September 2006 by Cao Xuemei et al (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Fufang Cangzhu Tang in the treatment of senile obesity with glucose intolerance JTCM March 2006 by Shi Jun et al (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Observation on the therapeutic effects of acupuncture for 60 cases of simple obesity JTCM September 2002 by Wang Hongyu (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket He-Ne laser auricular irradiation plus body acupuncture for treatment of acne vulgaris in 36 cases JTCM September 2006 by Sun Lihong (Archive subscribers please click on 'find out more' to see abstract. The full article is not available online and must be bought as a photocopy delivered by post). Find out more £5.50 VAT Exempt Add to Basket Displaying results 61 to 70 out of 1442 Display 5 10 20 50 per page Page: < Previous 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next > Subscriber login Already a subscriber? Login now to access the article archive. Recently Viewed Products Fifty cases of restless child syndrome treated with a combination of ear seeds and herbs The effects of cupping on lung function in asthmatic children Treating Paediatric Bed-wetting with Chinese Medicine Acupuncture treatment of nocturnal enuresis in children - a report of 56 cases Point application of medicated cakes for treatment of asthma in children - a report of 60 cases Terms & Conditions Postage & Packing Privacy Related Websites Accessibility Sitemap RSS Feeds © 2012 The 