
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 20:51:26 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.15 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.15 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.8.8
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.2
X-Pingback: http://skepticbros.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

skepticbros » The Skeptic Zone skepticbros The Zombie Apocalypse Survival Guide Home Comic Store Placebo Bands Testimonials Fishslapper of the Week Competitions About Facebook YouTube My Twitter RSS Feeds Posts tagged The Skeptic Zone Whooping Cough – Deadly In The Great Southern 4 1 year ago by Tom in Medical , Opinion DOCTORS ISSUE WARNING (by Phoebe Wearne)   – headline of free local paper The Extra (august 6 – 12) , distributed throughout the Great Southern region of Western Australia to areas including Albany, Denmark and Mt Barker. I can’t find any links to this article or The Extra so here are the main points. - “Great Southern health authorities are warning parents to be on the look out for symptoms of whooping cough after it was revealed there has been an 80 percent increase in the number of cases in the region this year.” - “There have already been 27 cases reported this year, a significant increase on the five – year average of 15 cases per year” - “Whooping cough is easily spread to other people by droplets from coughing. Someone affected by the disease could spread it for up to three weeks after onset, unless treated by antibiotics” - Great Southern public health  physician Naru Pal is quoted as saying  - Whooping cough is very serious or fatal for babies – “Young babies under six months will not have been fully vaccinated so they remain vulnerable to whooping cough.” – ” The advice of Great Southern Population Health is that the best way to protect babies is to keep them away from anyone with a cough and make sure their immunisations are up to date. ” - “WA health recommends that all children be given a combination vaccine that protects against six conditions, including whooping cough, which should be given at two , four, and six months of age. A further booster is needed at four, with a booster due at school at year seven.” - “A booster vaccine is available for adolescents and adults from GP’s” All this brings me back to April 2009and the tragic story of Dana McCaffery.  You can read all about it at Dr Rachel Dunlop’s bog here http://scepticsbook.com/?s=dana+mccaffery. this from Rachie - “The story centred around the recent death of four week old Dana McCaffery from whooping cough just two weeks out from being eligible for the vaccine. Dana lived in an area of the North Coast of New South Wales where there is a high rate of non-vaccinated children, hence the level of herd immunity is low, allowing for the spread of the disease amongst the population. The tragedy of the tiny baby’s death was highlighted by the fact that she was too young to be vaccinated, but died from a completely preventable illness.The AVN maybe up against the ropes but they sure did a lot of damage over the years.” in an April or June episode of The Skeptic Zone podcast, Dr Rachie mentioned that other than the Northern Costal area of New South Wales, which includes Byron Bay, the other part of Australia that has vaccination rates lower than heard immunity is the Great Southern area of Western Australia. This is my backyard. I have a young family and I have friends and family who have, are having or are thinking about having babies and starting families. While it’s very encouraging to see this type of thing on the front page of a free paper that is delivered to houses in the area. It is still worrying that after such a high profile, Nationally reported case like the McCaffery’s that it seems that things in my neck of the woods are getting worse not better. Is it going to take a case like that of Dana’s, with all her parents heartache and courage to speak out for things to change in Albany and the Great Southern? If you have any useful links please post them in the comments section. If you have propaganda from the AVN or any other Anti Vaccination organisation then you best keep it to yourself, your misinformation will not be welcome here. Stop the AVN Facebook site here WA Health’s whooping cough fact sheet here Albany Australian Vaccination Network AVN Baby Dies From Whooping Cough Dana McCaffery denmark Doctors Issue Warning Dr Rachie Immunisation Merly Dorey New Parents Phoebe Wearne Skeptics Book Of Pooh Pooh The Extra The Great Southern The Skeptic Zone WA Health Whooping Cough Whooping Cough Epidemic Search Website Tags (Show All) abc science alan ancestor anti-vaccination australian mens fitness Australian Skeptics AVN balance banana caddy bastardsheep bellybutton brian brushwood Fail fan granite state skeptics infected Meryl Dorey ninjas placebo placebo band power power balance powerbalance Rebel sport review revision3 richard saunders scam scam school scott sigler skeptic sneeches swoopy test today tonight travis roy Blogroll Snopes The definitive Internet reference source for urban legends, folklore, myths, rumors, and misinformation. The Geologic Podcast George Hrab and the Geologic Universe The League of Reason The Skeptic Zone The Podcast from Australia for Science and Reason The Skeptics Guide to the Universe Weekly science podcast produced by the New England Skeptical Society. Also provides blogs, forums, videos and resources. The Young Australian Skeptics A sanctuary for young free thinkers Victorian Skeptics The Australian Skeptics (Victorian Branch) is an evidence-based organisation run by volunteer members. Archives February 2012 (1) January 2012 (3) December 2011 (6) November 2011 (2) October 2011 (3) September 2011 (4) August 2011 (4) July 2011 (3) June 2011 (3) May 2011 (4) April 2011 (3) March 2011 (7) Log in Hello Guest. Login below if you have an account Remember me Lost your password? Register Blog Traffic Pages Pages | Hits | Unique Last 24 hours: 1,389 Last 7 days: 7,861 Last 30 days: 35,096 Online now: 3 Traffic Counter Powered by WordPre