<http://www.advancedhealing.com/blog/?p=706>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Low Vitamin D linked to Pelvic Floor Disorders in Women «  AdvancedHealing.Com Journal Home Services About Us Directions/Map Testimonials Forms Blog Contact Us Main Menu Services Chiropractic Care Weight Management Exercise Instruction Holistic Lifestyle Diagnostic Testing Alternative Medicine Resources & Links Articles Office Hours: Monday: 1:00pm - 6:00pm Tuesday: 9:00am - 6:00pm Wednesday: 9:00am - 6:00pm Thursday: 9:00am - 6:00pm Friday: 9:00am - 1:00pm Address: 630 S. Glassell Street Suite 103 Orange, CA 92866 714-639-4360 Map Privacy Policy | Terms of Use AdvancedHealing.Com Journal « Filet mignon, spicy polenta, steamed cauliflower and perfect guacamole Infants and mothers aren’t receiving enough vitamin D » Low Vitamin D linked to Pelvic Floor Disorders in Women Low Vitamin D Levels Tied to Incontinence Obstetrics & Gynecology: April 2010 – Volume 115 – Issue 4 – pp 795-803 A newly released research study suggests that vitamin D deficiency in women may be a predisposing factor to developing pelvic floor disorders like urinary incontinence and fecal incontinence. “Higher vitamin D levels were associated with a decreased risk of any pelvic floor disorder in all women,” write researcher Samuel Badalian, MD, PhD, of SUNY Upstate Medical University in Syracuse, N.Y. “Given the increase in the number of patients with pelvic floor disorders, further evaluation of the role of vitamin D is warranted.” Researchers say one in four women suffers from at least one type of pelvic floor disorder, such as urinary incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, and fecal incontinence, and the risks of developing these disorders increase with age. The Researchers came to the conclusion that higher vitamin D levels in women could improve pelvic muscle strength and reduce the risk of pelvic floor disorders, especially incontinence. Vitamin D3 has several forms: Cholecalciferol, (sometimes called calciol) which is an inactive, unhydroxylated form of vitamin D3) Calcifediol (also called 25-hydroxyvitamin D3), which is the form measured in the blood to assess vitamin D status Calcitriol (also called 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3), which is the active form of D3. More on Vitamin D Vitamin D Council If you enjoyed this post, make sure you subscribe to my RSS feed ! Tags: Cholecalciferol , fecal incontinence , pelvic organ prolapse , urinary incontinence This entry was posted
												on Monday, March 22nd, 2010 at 9:42 pm						and is filed under Menopause , Vitamin D .
						You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.

													You can leave a response , or trackback from your own site. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website AdvancedHealing.Com Jour