
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 10:31:52 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ahealthier Solution : Vitamins Supplements Ahealthier Solution Vitamins Supplements Home About Contact Natural Cures For Muscle Cramps Muscle cramps caused by nutritional deficiencies can which is a rich source of Vitamin E, to the diet. Organic be treated successfully through diet. The patient should minerals, especially potassium, can be helpful in cases, take a diet which contains liberal quantities of all the where the disease is caused by mental tension and essential nutrients. This diet may consist of seeds, nuts nervous disorders. Elimination of contributory psychic and whole grain, cereals, vegetables and fruits. The causes are, however, also essential in such cases. emphasis should be on calcium and magnesium-rich Foot cramp may sometimes be caused by deficiency foods, such as leafy green vegetables, fresh fruits, of Vitamin B6. Even many strong persons suffer from particularly apricots, and soured milk products. The best foot cramps because of lack of this Vitamin. In such sources of calcium are most vegetables, cereals like cases, it is essential to take Vitamin B6 on a regular millet, oats, rice, sesame seeds, beans, milk and basis. This vitamin can be taken up to 50 mg daily for homemade cottage cheese. months together without any ill effects. It is, however, The patient should avoid excess of citrus fruits, essential that while taking Vitamin B6, the whole family especially their juices, meats and excess of grains, of Vitamin B complex should be taken simultaneously, especially wheat, as all of them are deficient in calcium. as too much of one of the B vitamin may cause Millets are the best cereals for relieving muscle cramps imbalance of the other Vitamins of the B group. and they should be consumed liberally by the patient. Cramps associated with menstrual cycle and Other foods which are valuable in this disease are menopause can be treated successfully by large sesame seeds and almond, especially in the form of doses of Vitamin E, B6 and B12. milk. A useful method for relieving muscle cramps is to The use of Vitamin C and E in large doses has been apply heating pad over the cramping area. Massaging found beneficial in the treatment of muscle cramps the area will also be helpful. Persons suffering from leg caused by oxygen deficiency in the tissue. Vitamin C cramps at night should keep bed covers loose, or use has been found valuable in the assimilation of calcium in a foot cradle at night to keep the weight of the covers the body and preventing it from piling in the joints. off the feet. Those sleeping on their stomach may Vitamin E helps circulation in the legs. Leg cramps in extend their feet over the edge of the mattress to some cases have responded to adding vegetable oils, maintain a neutral foot position. Articles Morning Sickness Survival Tips Simple Stress Relief Natural Methods Liquid Vitamin Special Hair Removal by Waxing - Hot and... Resume tips for Freshers The Importance of B Vitamins Tips to Make Your Hair Shine and... Taking Vitamins And Supplements... Detangling Directives for Children... All you need to know about Nutrients Other People's Pets Treatment of Thyroid Problems: As... A Guide to Essential Vitamins and... Home | | Terms | Privacy | About | Contact Copyr