Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - Points Newsletter - April 2005 Acupuncture.Com - Gateway to Chinese Medicine, Health and Wellness Store PATIENTS Conditions A-Z Acupuncture Clinic Find an Acupuncturist Herbal Remedies Diet & Nutrition Chi Gong &Tai Chi Chinese Medicine Basics Patient Testimonials Animal Acupuncture Store PRACTITIONERS/STUDENTS Syndromes A-Z AcuPoint Locator Herbology Practice Building CEUs/Events Employment Study Acupuncture Acupuncture Schools Research TCM Library Laws & Regulations Practitioner Links Practitioner Store MORE Points Newsletter Catalog Requests Contact Us About Acupuncture.Com Privacy Policy ANNOUNCEMENTS Acupuncture.Com accepts article contributions. Email 

							submissions to contact@acupuncture.com FIND AN ACUPUNCTURIST Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice Subscribe Keep informed on current news in the world of 

							Traditional Chinese Medicine. Home > Points 
							Newsletter > April 2005 Points Newsletter - April 2005 Veterinary Acupuncture By Brian Puterman For 
		centuries the healing art of acupuncture has been practiced on animals. 
		The origin of acupuncture dates back to ancient China. The Chinese 
		regularly practiced acupuncture on horses then gradually tried it on 
		other farm animals and finally dogs, cats and birds. This form of 
		healing work is based around bio-energy or Qi (See Shiatsu for a more 
		detailed explanation of Qi). Acupuncture serves to unblock Qi energy and 
		in so doing boosts the immune system which aids in self-healing. 
		Acupuncture causes the body to release endorphins and hormones while at 
		the same time decreasing inflammation both internally and externally. Overcoming 
		Insomnia - How To Achieve Peaceful, Quality Sleep Proper rest is essential to good health, 
		and sleeplessness is a sign of imbalance. If your sleep is habitually 
		disturbed it can be very damaging to the vital energy of the body and 
		immune system. If this is the case it is important that you inform your 
		acupuncturist so that you can work together to determine the cause of 
		the imbalance and treat it appropriately. You will be amazed at how a 
		good night's sleep can change your life. With more rest your energy and 
		focus improve, the immune system and your body's ability to deal with 
		stress are strengthened, and nagging health conditions resolve more 
		easily. Qi 
		Soup for the TCM Soul By Dr. Bruce Eichelberger So I'm sitting around late one night and it occurs to 
		me that some of you reading this forum may still be wondering exactly 
		what this funny foreign concept, "Qi" really means... Of course I already know you can easily go to 
		Amazon.com or some search engine and find dozens, possibly hundreds of 
		books and other references for Qi (Chi) and Qi Gong (Chi Kung or 
		qigong), but you're here now, so what can I tell you that you are 
		unlikely to find in some book or video... Hmm... RECENT RESEARCH The 
	Effect of Acupuncture on Anxiety in Maternally Separated Rats Acupuncture for Pregnant Women with Pelvic Girdle Pain Dan Zhi 
	Xiao Yao Yin Combined with Auricular-Point-Pressing for Treatment of Optic 
	Atrophy Treatment of AIDS Patients with Chinese Herbs QuDu ZengNing capsule Sponsors Latest News Study Shows Acupuncture Really Works Acupuncture to Help Heal Horses FDA Ban on 
        Ephedra Struck Down by Judge Low-Level Electrostim Lowers Blood Pressure Dramatically Acupuncture For Breech Babies Studies Find Acupuncture Eases Knee 
		and Neck Pain Stroke Patients: Seek Acupuncture Singapore Zoo Uses Acupuncture on Ailing Elephant New CPT 
		Codes for Acupuncture Recipes Black Bean Sauce Cashew Nut Stir Fry Creamy Split Pea Soup Fancy Rice And many more... All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All 
		rights reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school referral services 
		provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website is subject to our Terms and 
		Conditions . All logos, service 