Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Do Air Purifiers Eliminate Mold? 1-800-339-7123 LIVE CHAT MY ACCOUNT HELP LOG IN CART (0) ALL PRODUCTS Allergy Bedding Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Air Quality Control Air Purifiers Dehumidifiers Humidifiers Portable ACs Home Care Cleaning Products Eco Products Furnace Filters Pet Allergy Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Personal Care Asthma Treatment Child Allergy Food Allergy Masks Nasal Irrigation Personal Care Sinus Care AIR PURIFIERS By Brand 3M Filtrete Airgle Alen AllerAir Amaircare Austin Air Blueair Germ Guardian AP Honeywell Hunter IQAir NQ Whirlpool By Need Allergies & Asthma MCS & Gas Pet Dander & Odor Small / Portable UV / Pathogen Air Purifier Filters ALLERGY BEDDING By Brand Allergy Armor Coyuchi Moonlight Slumber Mulberry West Ogallala PrimaLoft Pure-Rest Royal-Pedic Snoozer Vellux By Need Blankets Comforters Duvet Covers Mattresses Mattress Covers Mattress Pads Mattress Protectors Pillows Pillow Covers VACUUM CLEANERS By Brand Dyson Electrolux FilterStream Miele SEBO By Need Canister Vacuums Handheld & Cordless Stick Vacuums Upright Vacuums Vacuum Attachments DEHUMIDIFIERS By Brand Alen Aprilaire Danby Dri-Eaz Ebac Eva-Dry Soleus By Need Basement Dehumidifiers Crawlspace Dehumidifiers Portable Dehumidifiers Restoration Dehumidifiers HUMIDIFIERS By Brand Air-O-Swiss Enviracaire Germ Guardian Swizz Fred Vornado By Type Cool Mist Humidifiers Small Humidifiers Ultrasonic Humidifiers Warm Mist Humidifiers DUST MITES By Type Air Purifiers Box Spring Covers Carpet Cleaning Dehumidifiers Dust Cloths & Mops Dust Mite Bedding Laundry Mattress Covers Pillow Covers Upholstery Products Vacuum Cleaners STEAM CLEANERS By Brand Gruene Steam Mop Ladybug Reliable Vapamore By Type Handheld Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Vapor Steam Cleaners Allergy Relief Air Purifiers Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Vacuum Cleaners Dehumidifiers Steam Cleaners Portable Air Conditioners Dust Mite Allergy Humidifiers Furnace Filters Nasal Irrigation Asthma Treatment Mattresses Masks Child Allergy Food Allergy Personal Care Pet Allergy Cleaning Products Eco Products Home » Air Purifiers » Do Air Purifiers Eliminate Mold? Do Air Purifiers Eliminate Mold? Mold , the disgusting microscopic fungi that invades your home, exposes you and 
			your family to severe health risks. Although mold comprises the "blue" of bleu cheese, it is neither tasty nor inviting when it's invading your 
			home. Now more than ever, allergy and asthma 
			sufferers (and even those who aren't allergic to mold) are looking for a solution to their mold troubles. Are 
			air purifiers the answer to mold problems? Inside the home, molds like Alternaria, Aspergillus Chaetomium, Cladosporium, Fusarium, Mucor, Penicillium and Stachybotrys grow frequently in places 
			that are warm, damp, and dark. However, mold itself does not trigger allergic or asthmatic reactions. Instead, the microscopic mold spores (seeds) floating 
			through the air cause coughing, wheezing, stuffy and runny noses in those who are allergic. These awful mold spores make indoor and outdoor air quality 
			unbearable for some. As tiny mold spores float in the air and evade the protective mechanisms of your respiratory system, you'll find comfort in the fact 
			that there are effective ways to reduce and eliminate mold in your home. Most air purifiers combat the multiplying presence of mold using a very powerful 
			weapon: the HEPA air filter. HEPA (High Efficiency Particulate Air) filters 
			excel at trapping microscopic particles. True or absolute HEPA filters must meet strict standards of efficiency, capturing a minimum of 99.97% of 
			pollutants at 0.3 microns. As mold spores range between one and five microns in size, HEPA filters are certified and proven to remove all airborne mold spores. Thus, air 
			purifiers effectively eliminate mold. Ensure that your air purifier contains a HEPA filter by looking on the package. Each HEPA filter is marked 
			accordingly and represents the strict guidelines for which HEPA certification requires. HEPA filters eliminate mold spores by filtering the airborne spores from the air and trapping them within the HEPA 
			filter. To effectively filter mold spores, place an air purifier in places where mold is frequently found: basements, bathrooms, kitchens, and rooms 
			with upholstered furniture. Replace your HEPA filter frequently, as advised on the packaging, to ensure that your air purifier will 
			continue to provide air free and clear of mold spores. Austin Air Allergy Machine air purifier include HEPA filters 
			which consistently ranked as #1 in the world. Also included in the Austin Air Allergy Machine air purifiers is a special patented 
			HEGA (High Efficiency Gas Adsorber) filter which eliminates not only airborne contaminants like pollen, mold spores, and pet dander, but 
			also odors, gases, and smoke. This innovative combination provides fresher, cleaner air for you and your family. For the best filtration of mold spores, an IQAir HealthPro Plus air purifier
			provides better filtration of smaller particles than any air purifier available today.  They HyperHEPA filter traps 99.95% of all particles, 0.003 microns or larger.  
			That's nearly 100x smaller than particles than what a traditional HEPA filter can capture. For industrial strength protection against airborne contaminants, the AllerAir 6000 series air purifiers come 
			 with effective HEPA filters as well as two antimicrobial filters to eliminate mold, viruses, and bacteria. AllerAir air purifiers also come 
			 with an activated carbon filter which eliminates Volatile Organic 
			 Compounds , chemicals, gases, and odors. However, nothing can top the air cleaning abilities of the NQ Clarifier . The NQ 
			Clarifier air purifier is the only air purifier we offer that provides five stages of unmatched filtration. Within the NQ Clarifier's five 
			stages of air purification are: a Polyester Pre-filter, a True HEPA filter, a carbon filter, a carbon post-filter, and two ultraviolet lamps 
			that efficiently kill airborne microorganisms. The NQ Clarifier air purifier offers hospital-grade filtration that will guard against chemicals, 
			VOCs, odors, pollen, bacteria, viruses, and of course, mold spores. Also, to ensure that your home remains mold-free, use hygrometers and humidity gauges to monitor 
			and manage the humidity levels in your home. Mold loves humidity and thrives in areas that are damp and dark. After testing your home's humidity levels, use 
			dehumidifiers to lower the humidity if necessary, and place HEPA air purifiers in problem areas. Air purifiers offer the perfect solution to filter out the dangerous and disgusting existence of mold spores. But if you are worried about the mold itself, 
			don't forget to vacuum! HEPA vacuum cleaner will eliminate the presence of the 
			dark and dingy stains of mold on your carpet and rugs. Vacuum regularly with your HEPA vacuum cleaner to ensure that your rugs and carpets remain clean of 
			mold colonies. Don't let mold take over your home. Get a HEPA air purifier to keep mold from making a colony out of your home! 10 Years Online Same Day Shipping Low Price Guarantee Authorized Retailer Friendly Product Experts 60 Day Return Policy Pay No Sales Tax 1/30/12 Achooallergy.com has long been my go-to source for air purifiers and dehumidifiers. Never has been anything short of excellent. More Testimonials Live Chat now! Order Hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Product Experts Available Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm EST Sat-Sun 10am-5pm EST Customer Service Mon-Fri 9am-5pm EST Store Hours Mon-Sat 10am-5pm EST Call Us at
        1-800-339-7123 View Cart AchooAllergy.com Making you healthier and happier through allergy relief On our website, you will find the widest selection of allergy products and the very latest allergy and asthma information.  For more than a decade, our mission has been to provide you with the best prices and an excellent shopping experience. Sign Up To Receive Our Newsletter Read Our Blog Visit Our Learning Center Join The Conversation AchooAllergy.com About Us Our Core Values In the News Contact Us Careers Request a Catalog Receive Our Newsletter Request a Fabric Sample Physician Services Become an Affiliate Site Map Customer Service Shopping Cart Account Log-in Shipping Return Policy Returns Form Special Discounts Corporate Purchase Orders Government Purchase Orders Medical Reimbursement Form User Agreement Privacy Policy More Info What's New Popular Products Top 5 HEPA Air Purifiers Learning Center Clearance Coupons & Sales Gift Certificates Allergist Referrals Marketers Vendors Buying Guides Air Purifier Buying Guide Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide Allergy Bedding Buying Guide Pillow Buying Guide Miele Vacuum Buying Guide Dehumidifier Buying Guide Humidifier Buying Guide Royal-Pedic Buying Guide Ogallala Buying Guide Furnace Filters Buying Guide AllerAir Buying Guide Masks Buying Guide Solution Guides Dust Mites Mold Sinus Seasonal Allergy Pet Allergy Asthma MCS Food Allergy AchooAllergy.com&reg 3411 Pierce Drive Atlanta, GA 30341 © 2000 - 2012 AchooAllergy.com, All Rights Reserved *Free 