Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bariatric Surgery for Sleep Apnea | Sleep Apnea Guide Sleep Apnea Diagnosis Standards Treatments Alternative Treatments Resources Keep in Touch [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Bariatric Surgery Sleep Apnea and Bariatric Surgery Bariatric surgery has been shown to improve postoperative weight, sleep apnea, and pulmonary physiology. It and should be considered in sleep apnea patients with a BMI greater than 35 mg/kg2. Diet and exercise have had limited success in the treatment of obesity, but bariatric surgery is one of the harsh methods regarding the optimal weight reduction. I said harsh method , because it forces you to reduce the amount of food that you consume by making your stomach smaller through different types of surgery. The most common surgical weight-loss options for the treatment of morbid obesity are: Gastric Bypass Surgery - This is the most common bariatric surgery performed today, where the stomach is reduced in size by dividing the stomach in two parts. The small upper part of your stomach will receive the food from the esophagus and empties into intestines that has been brought up and attached to it. Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding - is performed by placing an inflatable band around the upper part of the stomach. When the band is inflated, your stomach turns to a small sack with a small drainage opening. The inflation of the band is adjusted through a tube leaving the band from an aperture outside the abdominal wall. Sleeve Gastrectomy - allows the patient to eat much less. It consists of a laparoscopic surgery in which with the help of an auto-suture machine, the stomach is sectioned leaving a thin gastric tube. This surgery as with the gastric bypass, are the only procedures where an appetite regulating hormone, the ghrelin, decreases significantly, and in result the patient has less appetite for about 4 to 6 months. Researches suggest that lap-band surgery is not so effective as gastric bypass surgery, and can damage your esophagus or stomach, or you may have problems with the inflatable band. Here is a short story video about a girl and weight loss surgery: Who are the candidates for bariatric surgery? The surgical treatment of obesity should only be considered if you meet the following criteria: you have body mass index (BMI) greater than 40. you have BMI of 35 to 39 with life-threatening conditions such as hypertension, cardiopulmonary disorders or diabetes mellitus. you have not been successful with natural weight loss program for at least five years. your age is between 18 and 60 years old. Bottom line... Bariatric bypass surgery has been shown to have success in sleep apnea. It may be an effective solution for severely obese apnea patients whose doctors consider them to be good candidates for this type of surgery. However , due to long time required for weight loss, you should continue you therapy with CPAP until you will see an improvement in your weight. If you can't tolerate your CPAP machine, try other methods and procedures that may be contemplated in addition to the bariatric bypass surgery. Your doctor should know what choices do you have. People who read about Bariatric Obesity Surgery also read about: Sleep apnea and obesity Sleep apnea weight loss Pickwickian Syndrome Alternative cures for sleep apnea Share this article with: Back from Bariatric Surgery to Sleep Apnea Treatment Back from Bariatric Surgery to Sleep Apnea Guide home page © Copyright 2009 - 2012 Sleep-Apnea-Guide.com Click here to read our Privacy Policy Last News and Updates: FeedWind Free Brochure: How to Stop CPAP Mask Leaks? Click here to receive CPAP Leaks Brochure Free Sleep Apnea Handbook Click here to receive Sleep-Apnea-Guide ebook We'd be very much in gratitude if you considered donating. Funds are 