Content-Type: text/html
Set-Cookie: ASPSESSIONIDAQQACDCB=JMHJGFOBMGCAGHGLAPPNDJCE; path=/
Cache-control: private

/ Hypnosis- Hypnsis change your mind for the better Hypnosis - I mind your mind. Hypnosis change your mind for the better Home Featured Our 
      Policys Contact Us Links New 
      Client Account Cart Checkout What is Hypnosis? Go to IMindYourMind Go to ATOZhypnotherapy Go to ATOZhypnotherapist What is "hypnosis"? Hypnosis can be defined in many ways, but what it is for the normal average human 
        being is the natural state of consciousness. Hypnosis is both natural 
        and consciousness. While in hypnosis, the person is always awake, and 
        and always aware of everything. Hypnosis is sometimes an altered state 
        of consciousness because we get very, very relaxed. While hynotized, the 
        average person is very relaxing and the mind focuses, almost hyper-focuses 
        and in that state of conscious awareness. The mind becomes very adaptable 
        and amenable to taking on suggestions and of course suggestions in hypnotherapy, 
        are suggestions for change. So, to state it succinctly, hypnosis is a 
        natural state of consciousness that every normal human being experiences 
        several times everyday. On could go into the hypnosis state while watching 
        a movie, reading a good book, driving down the freeway and sort of zoning 
        out, which we all tend to do, are just daydreaming, are all examples of 
        a natural hypnotic state. Hypnosis induced for hypnotherapy clinic is 
        to use that state of consciousness, intensify it, which helps people create 
        change and transformations in their life. Why use hypnosis? Hypnosis can be used for many reasons. It's important to understand that 
        hypnosis is simply a state of consciousness. Hypnosis can be used in many 
        ways. Hypnosis used in stage show is what most people think of when they 
        think of hypnosis. You might not want to go through hypnosis for that 
        purpose, unless you like being on a show. More often hypnosis is used 
        for clinical purpose. You might want to experience hypnosis just to see 
        what it feels like, and of course it may be underwhelming, because it 
        doesn't feel very like much like anything except deeply relaxing. Hypnosis 
        can help with some issue in your life; an unwanted or unhealthy habit, 
        perhaps a behavioral pattern, perhaps a lack of self-confidence, a fear 
        or phobia that's keeping you from living the kind of life you'd like to 
        live, or even a medical or psychological condition that is keeping you 
        from living the kind of life you want to live, then hypnosis can be a 
        very powerful tool to help you overcome or manage that condition. Hypnosis is safe In spite of the false and erroneous impression about hypnosis from either 
        movies or stage hypnosis, there was never any report of: Harm or injury caused by clinical hypnosis: Harm or injury caused by stage hypnosis other than embarrassment. Criminal acts while the perpetrator was under hypnosis. Victims of criminal act while the victim was under hypnosis. There was never any report of any harm or injury caused by hypnosis in 
        real life. Hypnosis are used by hypnotherapist in Hypnotherapy to treat issues such as Quit 
        Smoking Hypnosis and Quit 
        Smoking Hypnotherapy ; Stop 
        Smoking Hypnosis and Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy ; Smoking Cessation Hypnosis and Smoking 
        Cessation Hypnotherapy . Hypnosis are also used by hypnotherapist 
        in hypnotherapy to treat Weight 
        Control hypnosis and Weight Control hypnotherapy ; Weight 
        Management Hypnosis and Weight 
        Management hypnotherapy ; lastly Weight 
        Loss hypnosis and Weight 
        Loss hypnotherapy . Advanced Search Shopping Cart Qty 0 Total($) 0.00 Categories Ringo 
              Li Certified Master Hypnotist > Hypnosis Are there any risk? Dispelling the Hypnosis Myths How hypnosis works Hypnosis FAQ What is clinical hypnosis videos What is Hypnosis? Hypnosis Books Hypnotherapist Certified Hypnotherapist: Ringo Li What is a Hypnotherapist? Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy FAQ What can hypnotherapy do for you What is Hypnotherapy? What media & expert says... Hypnotherapy Treatments Addictions Hypnotherapy Anxiety Hypnotherapy Fear Hypnotherapy Insomnia Hypnotherapy Motivation Hypnotherapy Obsessive compulsive disorder Pain Management Hypnotherapy Phobias Hypnotherapy Procrastination Hypnotherapy Quit Smoking Hypnotherapy Self Confidence Hypnotherapy Self Image Hypnotherapy Sleep Disorder Hypnotherapy Smoking Cessation Hypnotherapy Sports Performance Hypnotherapy Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Stress Hypnotherapy Study Habit Hypnotherapy Substance Abuse Hypnotherapy Test & Exam Anxiety Weight Control Hypnotherapy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Weight Management Hypnotherapy Other Treatment Techniques Emotional Freedom Techniques Remote Consulting & Support Remote Phone/Video Sessions Hypnotherapy Phone Session Hypnotherapy Video Session Phone session Policies Testimonials The Mind Coach Products Videos Hypnosis Motivation Institude All 
            Product List Printer 
            Friendly Product List - Hypnosis - I mind your mind. - Hypnosis change