
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 12:03:41 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 12:03:41 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Yoga increases GABA and improves depression March 20, 2012 | Subcribe to this Page Follow @PsyWeb1 Login | Register Home Depression Anxiety Articles News Blogs DSM-IV™ Treatments Videos Ask Contact Sponsored Links PsyWeb Menu Self Tests Personality Test Understand DSM-IV™ Mental Illness Depression Depression Signs and Symptoms Opiates and depression Antepartum depression Depression Treatment Mood Disorders Schizophrenia Anxiety Diagnosis Treatments Alternative Meds ICD-9 ICD-10 Human Brain Assessment Community Online Support Groups Ask a Question News Videos More Resources Glossary Online Therapy Online Counseling Yoga increases GABA and improves depression Submitted by shelbydburns Thu 03/15/2012 Tweet Yoga may be effective in treating patients with stress-related psychological and medical conditions like depression, anxiety, high blood pressure and even cardiac disease according to a paper by researchers from Boston University School of Medicine (BUSM), New York Medical College (NYMC), and the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons (CCPS).  This research suggests a mind-body practice for the prevention and treatment conditions in combination with standard treatments. Stress can cause an imbalance in the autonomic nervous system.  It can also cause under activity of the inhibitory neurotransmitter, GABA.   Low GABA is found in anxiety disorders, PTSD, depression epilepsy and sufferers of chronic and persistent pain. “Western and Eastern medicine complement one another.  Yoga is known to improve stress-related nervous system imbalances,” explained Chris Streeter, MD, associate professor of psychiatry at BUSM ad Boston Medical Center and lead author.  “This paper provides a theory, based on neurophysiology and neuroanatomy, to understand how yoga helps patients feel better by relieving symptoms in many common disorders.” In an earlier study by this same group of researchers, it was found that a group of walkers experienced no increase in GABA while a group of yoga practitioners did – as well as experiencing a decrease in self-reported anxiety.  In another study from this group, patients with chronic low back pain responded to yoga intervention with increased GABA levels and decreased pain. The team is now beginning to test the yoga implementation theory by incorporating mind-body practices like yoga in their clinical studies of a range of stress-related medical and psychological conditions. Source:  MedicalNewsToday, Boston University Medical Center Login or register to post comments Related News Depression makes you old As if feeling depressed and stressed isn’t bad enough on its own, now there is evidence that people who experience recurrent depression or who are exposed to chronic stress … Stress and T cell connection Stress gives you high blood pressure because of your immune system.  T cells, those that fight infection, are also necessary for an increase in blood pressure after a period o… Evidence of brain chemistry leading to depression Molecular-level changes in the brains of women with major depressive disorder link two hypothesis about the biological mechanisms leading to the disease.  Researchers at the U… Related Videos How Anxiety Affects the Body Effects of anxiety disorders on the body.

… Is Stress the New Normal? A new study is finding that Americans are less stressed, but many wonder why? Are people getting used to high stress?




More Videos
… Tap Therapy to Help a Broken Heart? A treatment known as tap therapy claims to heal depression, stress, anxiety and more using a mind body technique

 
 

More Videos
… Related Articles Natural Treatment for Depression and Anxiety For whatever reason, be it health-related or personal preference, some people prefer natural treatment options to medicinal ones when it comes to battling their anxiety and depression. Given that expe… COPD and Depression Over the years, numerous studies have shown that patients with the chronic breathing disorder COPD tend to be more prone to becoming clinically depressed than individuals with other common chronic con… Massage for Depression Massage therapy is becoming an increasingly popular method of treating depression and other mental disorders, and one that has gotten a lot of attention over the last few years. And while the option d… Sponsored Links Call to Speak to a Specialist Call 1-877-398-2002 Anytime To Discuss Treatment Options if you or a loved one is struggling with mental health issues. Find a Treatment Center To search by State and City instead of by Zip Code / Postal Code, select a state from the list below. Select a State Below Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Mental Health Support Groups SupportGroups.com For individuals, friends and families who are looking to connect during life's challenging times. Share personal experiences, evaluate information and get support during times of need, illness, treatment or recovery. Mental Health Support Groups OCD ADHD Anxiety Depression Bipolar BPD Stress Phobia Panic Attack Codependency The information provided on the PsyWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her health professional. This information is solely for informational and educational purposes. The publication of this information does not constitute the practice of medicine, and this information does not replace the advice of your physician or other health care provider. Neither the owners or employees of PsyWeb.com nor the author(s) of site content take responsibility for any possible consequences from any treatment, procedure, exercise, dietary modification, action or application of medication which results from reading this site. Always speak with your primary health care provider before engaging in any form of self treatment. Please see our Legal Statement for further information. Sponsored Links Company Information Legal Statement | Privacy Policy | Advertise With Us | Contact Us ©2012 PsyWeb.com. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of psyweb.com's terms of service and privacy policy. The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treat