
Depression Acupuncture CT Connecticut Richard A. Covello, L.Ac. (203) 488-7284 Login / Online Scheduling Home Directions Start Here Forms Payment Options Q&A Testimonials Conditions Treated All Conditions (Alphabetical List) Women's Health Infertility Infertility Research Infertility ABC News Menopause Morning Sickness PMS Weight Loss Pain Related About Pain & Acupuncture Abdominal Pain Ankle Pain Arthritis Back Pain Elbow & Wrist Pain Face Pain Foot, Ankle, Toe Pain Groin Pain Hand & Finger Pain Headaches Neck Pain Sciatica Shoulder Pain Foot & Ankel Pain Respiratory System Allergies Asthma Colds Cough Digestive System Abdominal Pain Acid Reflux Constipation Morning Sickness Nausea & Vomiting Skin Brachioradial Pruritus Online Scheduling New Appointment View Scheduled Appointments Cancel Appointment Login Password Recovery About Online Scheduling About Contact Depression First, depression is very common, and regardless of degree of the depression 
        (mild or severe), this is a condition which is experienced by almost every 
        single human being at one point or another during his/her life time. Regardless of the severity of the depression, some people refuse to get 
        treatment, and this refusal causes great suffering for families, friends, and 
        the general public. Untreated 
        depression can become a life threatening condition and should be viewed with the 
        same sense of urgency as a heart condition, asthma, and other potentially life 
        threatening conditions. This 
        condition needs to be treated with both respect and compassion. Depression is commonly treated with acupuncture. However, 
        the treatment of depression is complicated and frequently requires a team 
        approach. Patients may need drug 
        therapy, counseling, acupuncture, exercise, nutrition adjustments, or a 
        combination of all of these treatments . The correct treatment, or combination of treatments, is solution based! Did the treatment work? Is the patient getting better? We must first determine the type of depression we are treating and select the 
        treatment based on symptoms presenting. Emotional Stagnation This precursor to depression usually occurs when a person is unable to 
        grow professionally or has problems in his/her personal life. Symptoms of 
        emotional stagnation include frequent sighing, belching, loss of appetite, 
        excess appetite, frequent alcohol use, drug use, PMS, insomnia, waking from 
        sleep between 1 AM – 3 AM on a consistent bases, and tightness in throat. Seasonal Depression This pattern of depression is frequently seen around a specific date, 
        holiday, changes in weather, and the amount of daytime sunlight. Seasonal depression is common and 
        should be respected. Emotional Stagnation turning to 
        Rage Symptoms of this condition include agitation, suspicion, anger, yelling at 
        family and friends, red eyes, recurring headaches on the sides of the head. Road rage is perfect example of this 
        condition; a normally calm person bursts into anger while driving. Note: When dealing with someone in this state use kindness, 
        agreement, and reassuring words to help defuse a tense situation. Remember, it’s not easy being human and once the person calms down a logical solution can be found. Emotional Stagnation 
        and Phlegm Emotional stagnation with phlegm symptoms can be associate with weight gain, 
        coughing up phlegm, heavy headedness, feeling of being heavy, difficulty getting 
        out of bed or moving, fatigue, symptoms can be worse with damp or humid weather. Hormone imbalance / Blood loss / Recovery from Illness or Injury Symptoms associated with this pattern my include extreme emotional reactions, 
        alternating happiness and anger, fatigue, hot flashes, night sweating, bloating, 
        back pain, missed periods, and menopause type symptoms. After scheduling your appointment, (203) 
        488-7284 or online CHS Life.Net please print 
        and complete the first visit form found on this web sites FORMS page . Thank you 
        for visiting acupuncture Connecticut (CT) . Home Getting Started Schedule Directions Staff Team Strength Pictures BJJ MMA Kick Boxing Intelligent Training School Rules Schools Rules Path To Black Belt Kids CHS Life Health Care Technology Counseling Connecticut (CT), Individual, Couples, Family, Children Back to Health of Branford CT Acupuncture Washington Rock Garden of Branford CT Personal Training Connecticut Hunting Connecticut (CT) RC Biller, Sachs, Raio & Zito CHS Life Appointment Scheduling MMA CT .Net Green Homes CT Strength BJJ Team Strength Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Contractor CT Chinese Hawaiian Kenpo Academy Chiropractic Connecticut AcupunctureInfertilityCT.net Twinfork Remodeling Dr. Diamond Chiropractic, Stamford CT CHS Life Online Scheduling Member Information Provider Information Q & A About Health 2.0 Governments Contact Us Serving Branford, Guilford, 
            Madison, North Branford, East Haven, West Haven, New Haven Milford, Stratford, Connecticut Shoreline (CT) he contents of this web site are protected by 
            copyright laws and cannot be copied without first obtaining