
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: cloudflare-nginx
Date: Fri, 09 Mar 2012 10:20:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Mon, 23 May 2011 22:13:10 GMT
ETag: "2ee0-4a3f8c6d66980"
Accept-Ranges: bytes

Probiotics – Try These for Your Health! by Margaret Durst Home | Blog | Subscribe | Podcasts | Donate Probiotics 
              – Try These for Your Health! by 
              Margaret Durst The Green House Previously 
              by Margaret Durst: Iodine 
              – Useful If You Need It! Acidophilus 
              and other probiotics are familiar to many. Probiotics are the healthy 
              bacteria that inhabit our gut. The average healthy person has 4-5 
              pounds of these critters in their intestinal tract. The word “probiotic” 
              means “for life”. Probiotics have several functions that 
              enhance our lives and are essential to good health. These include 
              synthesizing vitamins B complex and K, enhancing immune function 
              by crowding out yeast and parasites, producing enzymes, helping 
              regulate blood cholesterol, improving digestion and colon function, 
              and helping to prevent certain types of cancer. Probiotics 
              are important because many things can upset the delicate balance 
              in our intestinal tract. These include use of antibiotics, steroids, 
              oral contraceptives, radiation, chlorinated water, refined sugar, 
              poor diet, poor digestion, constipation, stress, etc. An imbalance 
              in the intestinal flora is known as dysbiosis. Many people have 
              this – you could be one of them. When dysbiosis occurs, the 
              body becomes overloaded with toxins. Without essential probiotics, 
              partially digested proteins can enter the bloodstream, contributing 
              to allergies, eczema, nervous system disorders, rheumatoid arthritis, 
              asthma, fibromyalgia, hormone imbalances, joint pain, migraine headaches 
              and a variety of other immune system disorders. GI tract problems 
              such as leaky bowel syndrome, ulcerative colitis, spastic colon 
              and irritable bowel syndrome are attributed to loss of probiotics 
              and the overgrowth of detrimental bacteria, yeast or parasites. Over 60 percent 
              of you immune system is in your gut. When your intestinal tract 
              is balanced with the right kind of bacteria, you naturally feel 
              better, digest your food better and are more resistant to colds, 
              flus, bacteria and parasites. There are 
              many good probiotic supplements on the market. Many of the companies 
              making the supplements have researched the specific strains that 
              will tend to colonize well. The delivery mechanism on the probiotics 
              is important too. Enteric and 
              other specific gel coatings will ensure that the product is delivered 
              to the small and large intestines rather than destroyed in the highly 
              acidic environment of the stomach. Also, probiotics 
              tend to lose potency if they sit on the shelf too long, so check 
              dates and make sure you have a live culture. One of the 
              best (and most expensive) is Dr. Ohhira’s that contains special 
              strains of lactic acid bacteria that help to normalize pH in the 
              colon. One specific strain contained in this probiotic has been 
              shown to be effective against some of the most potent antibiotic 
              resistant staph bacteria as well as E. coli and H. pylori. Taking probiotics 
              helps to maintain a healthy balance in the intestinal tract. They 
              are particularly helpful if your digestive system is not working 
              as well as you would like. Probiotics are also useful for certain 
              skin conditions such as teenage acne. Probiotics 
              are very helpful critters. It is these helpful bacteria that keep 
              us from being overrun with harmful bacteria, yeast, fungus and other 
              parasites. May 24, 2011 Margaret 
              Durst owns The 
              Green House , a vitamin, herb and health food store in Mason, 
              Texas. Copyright 
              © 2011 Margaret 
              Durst The 
              Best 