
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Sun-ONE-Web-Server/6.1
Date: Fri, 09 Mar 2012 00:04:35 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Set-cookie: adxcs=s*17d5b=0:1|si=0:1|s*28144=0:5|s*28145=0:5|s*2814b=0:3|s*28146=0:5|s*2814a=0:5|s*28147=0:5|s*2814e=0:5|s*2814d=0:5|s*2c0ee=0:1|s*2c0ed=0:3; path=/; domain=.nytimes.com
Connection: close

Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse Treatment for Alcohol Withdrawal - Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse Health Information - NY Times Health Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Health Guide World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Research Fitness & Nutrition Money & Policy Views Health Guide Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Search Health 3,000+ Topics Send Feedback Health > Times Health Guide > a > Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse > In-Depth Report : Treatment for Alcohol Withdrawal Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse Overview In-Depth Report Background Causes Risk Factors Possible Complications Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment for Alcoholism Treatment for Alcohol Withdrawal Psychotherapy and Behavioral Methods Medications Resources References News & Features Expert Q & A Questions for Your Doctor Clinical Trials 5 Things to Know View & Print In-Depth Report » Multimedia Slide Show A Tribe Confronts Its Neighbor Over Liquor A Boutique (and Sober) Retreat Video Gangs on Tribal Lands Video Stranded in Dutch Harbor, Alaska Video Tackling Public Inebriation in Anchorage Web Links National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information American Council on Alcoholism National Council on Alcoholism Alcoholics Anonymous Al-Anon Family Group Headquarters National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Related Topics Acute Pancreatitis Alcoholic Neuropathy Bleeding Esophageal Varices Cirrhosis Depression Cancer Sleeping Difficulty Suicide and Suicidal Behavior Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome In-Depth From A.D.A.M. Treatment for Alcohol Withdrawal When a person with alcoholism stops drinking, withdrawal symptoms begin within 6 - 48 hours and peak about 24 - 35 hours after the last drink. During this period, the inhibition of brain activity caused by alcohol is abruptly reversed. Stress hormones are overproduced, and the central nervous system becomes overexcited. Common symptoms include: Anxiety Irritability Agitation Insomnia Additional symptoms may include: Extremely aggressive behavior Fever Rapid heartbeat Changes in blood pressure (either higher or lower) Mental disturbances Seizures occur in about 10% of adults during withdrawal. In about 60% of these patients, the seizures are multiple. The time between the first and last seizure is usually 6 hours or less. Delirium tremens (DTs) are withdrawal symptoms that become progressively severe and include altered mental states (hallucinations, confusion, severe agitation) or generalized seizures. High fever is common. DTs are potentially fatal. They develop in up to 5% of alcoholic patients, usually 2 - 4 days after the last drink, although it may take 2 or more days to peak. It is not clear if older people with alcoholism are at higher risk for more severe symptoms than younger patients. However, several studies have indicated that they may suffer more complications during withdrawal, including delirium, falls, and a decreased ability to perform normal activities. Initial Assessment Upon entering a hospital due to alcohol withdrawal, patients should be given a physical examination for any injuries or medical conditions. They should be treated, if possible, for any potentially serious problems, such as high blood pressure, anemia, liver damage, or irregular heartbeat. Treatment for Withdrawal Symptoms The immediate goal of treatment is to calm the patient as quickly as possible. Patients should be observed for at least 2 hours to determine the severity of withdrawal symptoms. Doctors may use assessment tests , such as the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment (CIWA) scale, to help determine treatment and whether the symptoms will progress in severity. About 95% of people have mild-to-moderate withdrawal symptoms, including agitation, trembling, disturbed sleep, and lack of appetite. In 15 - 20% of people with moderate symptoms, brief seizures and hallucinations may occur, but they do not progress to full-blown delirium tremens. Such patients can often be treated as outpatients. After being examined and observed, the patient is usually sent home with a 4-day supply of anti-anxiety medication, scheduled for follow-up and rehabilitation, and advised to return to the emergency room if withdrawal symptoms increase in severity. If possible, a family member or friend should support the patient through the next few days of withdrawal. Benzodiazepines. Anti-anxiety drugs known as benzodiazepines inhibit nerve-cell excitability in the brain and are considered to be the treatment of choice. They relieve withdrawal symptoms, help prevent progression to delirium tremens, and reduce the risk for seizures. Long-acting drugs, such as chlordiazepoxide (Libritabs, Librium), oxazepam (Serax), and halazepam (Paxipam) are preferred. They pose less risk for abuse than the shorter-acting drugs, which include diazepam (Valium), alprazolam (Xanax), and lorazepam (Ativan). Assessing symptoms frequently and administering benzodiazepine doses as needed (instead of giving a fixed dose at regular intervals) may reduce the incidence of withdrawal symptoms and other adverse events, including delirium, seizures, and transfer to the intensive care unit. Some doctors question the use of any anti-anxiety medication for mild withdrawal symptoms, since these drugs are subject to abuse. Others believe that repeated withdrawal episodes, even mild forms, that are inadequately treated may result in increasingly severe and frequent seizures with possible brain damage. In any case, benzodiazepines are usually not prescribed for more than 2 weeks or administered for more than 3 nights per week. Problems with benzodiazepines include: Side Effects. Common side effects of benzodiazepines are daytime drowsiness and a hung-over feeling. In rare cases, they actually cause agitation. Respiratory problems may be worsened. The drugs stimulate eating and can cause weight gain. Benzodiazepines can interact with certain drugs, including cimetidine (Tagamet), antihistamines, and oral contraceptives. Benzodiazepines are potentially dangerous when used in combination with alcohol. Overdoses are serious, although rarely fatal. Elderly people are more susceptible to side effects and should usually start at half the dose prescribed for younger people. Benzodiazepines are associated with birth defects and should not be used by pregnant women or nursing mothers. Loss of Effectiveness and Dependence. The primary problem with these drugs is their loss of effectiveness over time with continued use at the same dosage. As a result, patients may increase their dosage level to prevent anxiety. Patients then can become dependent. This is a common danger and can occur after as short a time as 3 months. (These drugs do not cause euphoria, a so-called "high," so such drugs are not addictive in the same way narcotics are.) Withdrawal Symptoms. People who discontinue benzodiazepines after taking them for even 4 weeks can experience mild rebound symptoms. The longer the drugs are taken and the higher the dose, the more severe the symptoms. They include sleep disturbance and anxiety, which can develop within hours or days after stopping the medication. Some patients experience withdrawal symptoms, including stomach distress, sweating, and insomnia, that can last from 1 - 3 weeks. Sleep changes can persist or months or years after quitting and may be a major factor in relapse. Antiseizure Medications. Antiseizure drugs, such as carbamazepine (Tegretol) or divalproex sodium (Depakote), may be useful for reducing the requirements of a benzodiazepine. When used by themselves, however, they do not appear to reduce seizures or delirium associated with withdrawal. Other Supportive Drugs . Beta blockers, such as propranolol (Inderal) and atenolol (Tenormin), are sometimes used in combination with benzodiazepines. They slow heart rate and reduce tremors. They may also reduce cravings. Specific Treatment for Severe Symptoms Treating Delirium Tremens. People with symptoms of delirium tremens must be treated immediately. Untreated delirium tremens has a fatality rate that can be as high as 20%. Treatment usually involves intravenous administration of anti-anxiety medications. It is extremely important that fluids be administered. Restraints may be necessary to prevent injury to the patient or to others. Treating Seizures. Seizures are usually self-limited and treated with a benzodiazepine. Intravenous phenytoin (Dilantin) along with a benzodiazepine may be used in patients who have a history of seizures, who have epilepsy, or in those with ongoing seizures. Because phenytoin may lower blood pressure, the patient's heart should be monitored during treatment. Psychosis. For hallucinations or extremely aggressive behavior, antipsychotic drugs, particularly haloperidol (Haldol), may be administered. Korsakoff's psychosis (Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome) is caused by severe vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiencies, which cannot be replaced orally. Rapid and immediate injection of the B vitamin thiamin is necessary. More Information on This Topic Background Causes Risk Factors Possible Complications Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment for Alcoholism Treatment for Alcohol Withdrawal Psychotherapy and Behavioral Methods Medications Resources References News & Features Expert Q & A Questions for Your Doctor Clinical Trials 5 Things to Know View & Print In-Depth Report » Review Date: 1/13/2011 Reviewed By: Harvey Simon, MD, Editor-in-Chief, Associate Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School; Physician, Massachusetts General Hospital. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, also known as the American Accreditation HealthCare Commission (www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability. A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy, editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of Hi-Ethics and subscribes to the principles of the Health on the Net Foundation (www.hon.ch). A.D.A.M. Copyright The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- 2008 A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. SHARE Print E-MAIL Well What Doctors and Patients Don't Want to Talk About March 8, 2012, 1:30 PM Shark Cartilage May Contain Toxin March 7, 2012 When Hospital Visitors Get Sick March 7, 2012 Getting Fat but Staying Fit? March 7, 2012 A Heart Helper May Come at a Price for the Brain March 5, 2012 More Blog Headlines » Health & Fitness Tools BMI Calculator What's your score? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH E-Mailed Blogged Preschoolers in Surgery for a Mouthful of Cavities Well: Getting Fat but Staying Fit? Hospital Groups Will Get Bigger, Moody’s Predicts Well: A Heart Helper May Come at a Price for the Brain Well: Shark Cartilage May Contain Toxin Well: Why It's So Important to Keep Moving Yoga and Sex Scandals: No Surprise Here The New Old Age: Weighing the Chances at Life's End Recipes for Health: Vegetarian Spring Rolls With Shredded Kohlrabi Well: How 1-Minute Intervals Can Improve Your Health Go to Complete List » Rise in Preschool Cavities Prompts Anesthesia Use Amateur Biologists Are New Fear in Making a Mutant Flu Virus Hospital Groups Will Get Bigger, Moody's Report Says Go to Complete List » Health Around the Web Powered by BlogRunner Home World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Site Map © 2012 The New York Times Company Privacy Your Ad Choices Terms of Service Terms o