Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 12 Apr 2012 17:41:27 GMT
Connection: close

Medicare Hospital Compare Information for Consumers-Process of Care Skip Navigation Close Window Medicare.gov Hospital Compare Print Information for Consumers Overview Value Based Purchasing Process of Care What are the Hospital Process of Care Measures? Recommended Care Exceptions to Recommended Care How are the Hospital Process of Care Measures Data Collected? Explanations of Hospital Process of Care Measures Outcome of Care Measures Use of Medical Imaging Patients' Survey Patient Safety Measures Medicare Payment and Volume Explanations of Hospital Process of Care Measures Heart Attack Process of Care Measures Learn More - Opens in a new window Brief Explanation Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given Aspirin at Arrival Aspirin can help keep blood clots from forming and dissolve blood clots that can cause heart attacks. Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given Aspirin at Discharge Taking aspirin may help prevent further heart attacks. Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given ACE Inhibitor or ARB for Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction (LVSD) ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitors and ARBs (angiotensin receptor blockers) are medicines used to treat heart attacks, heart failure, or a decreased function of the heart. Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given Smoking Cessation Advice/Counseling Smoking is linked to heart attacks. Quitting may help prevent another heart attack. Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given Beta Blocker at Discharge Beta blockers are a type of medicine used to lower blood pressure, treat chest pain (angina) and heart failure, and to help prevent a heart attack. Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given Fibrinolytic Medication Within 30 Minutes Of Arrival Blood clots can cause heart attacks. Doctors may give this medicine, or perform a procedure to open the blockage, and in some cases, may do both. Percent of Heart Attack Patients Given PCI Within 90 Minutes Of Arrival The procedures called Percutaneous Coronary Interventions (PCI) are among those that are the most effective for opening blocked blood vessels that cause heart attacks. Doctors may perform PCI, or give medicine to open the blockage, and in some cases, may do both. Heart Attack Patients Given a Prescription for a Statin at Discharge For patients who had a heart attack and have high cholesterol, taking Statins can lower the chance that they’ll have another heart attack or die. Heart Failure Process of Care Measures Learn More - Opens in a new window Brief Explanation Percent of Heart Failure Patients Given Discharge Instructions The staff at the hospital should provide you with information to help you manage your heart failure symptoms when you are discharged. Percent of Heart Failure Patients Given an Evaluation of Left Ventricular Systolic (LVS) Function An evaluation of the LVS function checks how the left chamber of the heart is pumping. Percent of Heart Failure Patients Given ACE Inhibitor or ARB for Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction (LVSD) ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitors and ARBs (angiotensin receptor blockers) are medicines used to treat heart attacks, heart failure, or a decreased function of the heart. Percent of Heart Failure Patients Given Smoking Cessation Advice/Counseling Smoking is linked to heart failure. Quitting may help improve your condition. Pneumonia Process of Care Measures Learn More - Opens in a new window Brief Explanation Percent of Pneumonia Patients Assessed and Given Pneumococcal Vaccination A pneumonia (pneumococcal) shot can help prevent pneumonia in the future, even for patients who have been hospitalized for pneumonia. Percent of Pneumonia Patients Whose Initial Emergency Room Blood Culture Was Performed Prior To The Administration Of The First Hospital Dose Of Antibiotics A blood culture tells what kind of medicine will work best to treat your pneumonia. Percent of Pneumonia Patients Given Smoking Cessation Advice/Counseling Smoking is linked to pneumonia. Quitting may help prevent you from getting pneumonia again. Percent of Pneumonia Patients Given Initial Antibiotic(s) within 6 Hours After Arrival Timely use of antibiotics can improve the treatment of pneumonia caused by bacteria. Percent of Pneumonia Patients Given the Most Appropriate Initial Antibiotic(s) Antibiotics are medicines that treat infection, and each one is different. Hospitals should choose the antibiotics that best treat the infection type for each pneumonia patient. Percent of Pneumonia Patients Assessed and Given Influenza Vaccination An influenza shot can help prevent influenza in the future, even for patients who have been hospitalized for pneumonia. Surgical Care Improvement Project Process of Care Measures Learn More - Opens in a new window Brief Explanation PREVENTING BLOOD CLOTS Percent of patients who got treatment at the right time (within 24 hours before or after their surgery) to help prevent blood clots after certain types of surgery This measure tells how often patients having certain types of surgery received treatment to prevent blood clots in the period from 24 hours before surgery to 24 hours after surgery. Percent of surgery patients whose doctors ordered treatments to prevent blood clots after certain types of surgeries Certain types of surgery can increase patients’ risk of having blood clots after surgery. For these types of surgery, this measure tells how often treatment to help prevent blood clots was ordered by the doctor. PREVENTING INFECTIONS Percent of surgery patients who were given the right kind of antibiotic to help prevent infection Some antibiotics work better than others to prevent wound infections for certain types of surgery. This measure shows how often hospital staff make sure patients get the right kind of preventive antibiotic medication for their surgery. Percent of surgery patients whose preventive antibiotics were stopped at the right time (within 24 hours after surgery) Taking preventive antibiotics for more than 24 hours after routine surgery is usually not necessary. This measure shows how often hospitals stopped giving antibiotics to surgery patients when they were no longer needed to prevent surgical infection. Percent of all heart surgery patients whose blood sugar (blood glucose) is kept under good control in the days right after surgery All heart surgery patients get their blood sugar checked after surgery. Any patient who has high blood sugar after heart surgery has a greater chance of getting an infection. This measure tells how often the blood sugar of heart surgery patients was kept under good control in the days right after their surgery. Percent of surgery patients needing hair removed from the surgical area before surgery, who had hair removed using a safer method (electric clippers or hair removal cream – not a razor) For those patients who needed to have hair removed to prepare for surgery, this measure tells how often one of the safer methods was used (electric clippers or hair removal cream). Percent of surgery patients who were given an antibiotic at the right time (within one hour before surgery) to help prevent infection Getting an antibiotic within one hour before surgery reduces the risk of wound infections. This measure shows how often hospital staff make sure surgery patients get antibiotics at the right time. Inpatients whose urinary catheters were removed within 2 days after surgery to reduce the risk of infection. Urinary catheters should be removed within two days after surgery to help prevent infection. Patients having surgery who were actively warmed in the operating room or whose body temperature was near normal by the end of surgery. Hospital staff should make sure that patients are actively warmed during the time period 15 minutes before the end of surgery to 30 minutes after anesthesia ends, or that the patient’s body temperature is near normal by the end of surgery. MANAGING HEART DRUGS DURING SURGERY Percent of surgery patients who were taking heart drugs called beta blockers before coming to the hospital, who were kept on the beta blockers during the period just before and after their surgery Many people who have heart problems or are at risk for heart problems take drugs called beta blockers to reduce the risk of future heart problems. This measure shows whether surgery patients who were already taking beta blockers before coming to the hospital were given beta blockers during the time period just before and after their surgery. Children’s Asthma Care Process of Care Measures Learn More - Opens in a new window Brief Explanation Percent of Children Who Received Reliever Medication While Hospitalized for Asthma National guidelines recommend using reliever medication in the severe phase and gradually cutting down the dosage of medications to provide control of asthma symptoms. Relievers are medications that relax the bands of muscle surrounding the airways and are used to quickly make breathing easier. Percent of Children Who Received Systemic Corticosteroid Medication (oral and IV Medication That Reduces Inflammation and Controls Symptoms) While Hospitalized for Asthma National guidelines recommend using systemic corticosteroid medication (oral and IV medication that reduces inflammation and controls symptoms) in the severe phase and gradually cutting down the dosage of medications to provide control of the asthma symptoms. Systemic corticosteroids are a type of medication that work in the body as a whole. Systemic corticosteroids help control allergic reactions and reduce inflammation. Percent of Children and their Caregivers Who Received a Home Management Plan of Care Document While Hospitalized for Asthma The Home Management Plan of Care document includes arrangements for follow-up care. It will help children with asthma and their caregivers develop a plan to manage the child’s asthma symptoms and to know when to take action. The plan of care should clearly tell the