Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Untitled Document Acupuncture About Dr. Ciuferri Naturopathic Medicine Acupuncture Services Location Articles What is Acupuncture ? Acupuncture is a form of treatment 				that uses hair thin sterilized needles at specific points in the 				body in order to produce a healing response. The needles are 				inserted into the skin and then stimulated to balance the body's 				energy or Qi (pronounced "chee"). When there is an insufficient 				amount of Qi or if it becomes blocked, the body becomes 				unbalanced and disease results. What does acupuncture treat ? Acupuncture treats all acute and 				chronic conditions. It is very helpful for pain management and 				musculoskeletal complaints. It also treats digestive problems, 				PMS, menopause, headaches, infertility, allergies, asthma, 				anxiety, fatigue, depression, fibroids, hormonal imbalances, 				insomnia, and many other conditions. Acupuncture is even safe 				during pregnancy. What to expect? A typical acupuncture treatment 				lasts 45 minutes to one hour. During the initial visit, Dr. 				Ciuferri-Wansacz takes a detailed history, asking many questions 				about diet, lifestyle, general health, past medical history, and 				family history. She will then palpate (or touch) certain parts 				of the body that are related to the chief complaint in order to 				gather more findings. The actual needling is painless. Many 				people describe a slight prick or feel nothing at all as the 				needle enters the skin. Once the needle is in place a variety of 				sensations may occur ranging from an achiness, numbness, 				tingling or warmth, which indicates the Qi is moving. If there 				are trigger points in the muscles, you may feel a slight muscle 				twitch when these are released. How often and how many 				treatments will I need? It depends on the length and 				severity of the condition. Acupuncture is typically given once 				or twice a week. It has a cumulative effect on the body. In 				other words, the more often you get acupuncture the longer the 				relief lasts. For example, if someone has an initial treatment 				for back pain they may have relief for a few hours or one day. 				The following week they go back for another treatment, which 				results in relief for 2 or 3 days. They continue to go for their 				acupuncture treatments every week and notice the pain is 				diminishing more and more each week. They may get to the point 				that they only need a "tune-up" once a month in order to keep 				the pain at bay. It's different for everyone. But, nobody can 				expect complete relief in one acupuncture treatment. Acupuncture 				needs time to work. It's a good idea to get weekly treatments 				for 5 to 6 weeks then re-evaluate your condition. What is facial acupuncture ? For information on this procedure 				visit www.holisticbeauty.com Return to 				Dr. Maria's Home Page Maria Ciuferri-