
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 12:16:35 GMT
Server: Apache
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 12:16:36 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Affordable Plastic Surgery Thailand | Cosmetic Surgery Thailand - Medical Tourism - Bariatric Surgery Content on this page requires a newer version of Adobe Flash Player. Home About Metamorphosis Medical Tourism Thailand Hospitals Bangkok Hospital Bangkok Hospital Surgeons Bangkok Hospital Video Yanhee Hospital Yanhee Hospital Surgeons Yanhee Hospital Video Yanhee Treatment Prices Treatments Plastic Surgery Dental Surgery Bariatric Surgery Gender Surgery Non-Surgical Media Useful Web Links ABC Medical Tourism Video Islands and Beaches Video Bangkok Tour Video Contact Login beta Quick Contact Form Name * Invalid Input Email * Invalid Input Procedure Invalid Input Validation Invalid Input Home Treatments Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Weight Reduction Bariatric surgery is more commonly known today as obesity surgery. Obesity has been on the rise and has been one of the major health related problems that the world is seeing today. Obesity has a direct impact on healthy living. Heart disease, diabetes, many types of cancer, asthma, obstructive sleep apnea, and chronic musculoskeletal problems are few of the health disorders that are seen in overweight and obese people. Diagnosing obesity is very important and it relates to diagnosis of body fat. The body mass index (BMI) is an accepted marker for excess body weight. This is not the ultimate marker as it can diagnose a muscular person as obese. It can also asses an elderly person with low body weight but high body fat (this can happen due to low muscle mass and bone density) as healthy. Other markers for the evaluating obesity include waist circumference (associated with central obesity), and a patient's risk factors for diseases and conditions associated with obesity. Besides these indirect methods, body fat can also be measured directly. Treatment for overweight and obese individuals through diet, exercise and anti-obesity drugs are considered in the first level of treatment. Treatment for severe obesity will include bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery is gaining popularity and is seen as a crusader in the war against obesity. Weight loss surgery helps patients with greater weight loss than conventional treatments. Bariatric surgery helps improve quality of life and reduces the risks of obesity related diseases such as hypertension, heart attacks, diabetes etc. Metamorphosis Medical Retreats facilitates a wide range of affordable bariatric weight loss surgeries including; Laparoscopic adjustable Gastric banding (AGB) for weight reduction Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass (RGB) for morbid obesity Laparoscopic Vertical sleeve gastrectomy for obese Gastric balloon Uninsured, self insured and underinsured obese individuals will see cost savings of up to 70% when weight reduction procedures are performed overseas. Gastric Band (Lap Band) Gastric banding is surgical weight loss treatment. It is also known as a laparoscopic stomach band operation, lap band surgery, laparoscopic gastric banding procedure, or minimal access bariatric banding operation for overweight management. Read more... Gastric Bypass There are a few accepted surgical procedures for morbid obesity. One procedure that is presently favored by surgeons is the Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass (RGB). This is one of the most commonly performed weight loss surgeries worldwide. 75% of individuals seeking surgical weight management choose the RGB method. Read more... Gastric Balloon The Intragastric Balloon is a soft silicone balloon that is inserted through the mouth and placed into the stomach. The balloon is inflated with a sterile saline solution effectively 'filling' a portion of the stomach. This method allows for short term and rapid weight loss. Read more... Follow Metamorphosis The Steps to Surgery in Thailand Contact MMR North American toll-free number 1-800-897-8173 Australian toll-free number 1-800-896-490 or Click here for our detailed contact form Choose a Hospital Choose a Surgeon Bangkok Hospital Surgeons Yanhee Hospital Surgeons *We can recommend top surgeons for your selected treatment Travel Arrangements Generally we don't book flights directly, but can still help you find a great deal. Best hotels at the lowest rates? Click here to view our top hotel picks. Procedure Menu Plastic Surgery Arm Lift Breast Augmentation Breast Lift Breast Reduction Buttock Augmentation Liposuction Tummy Tuck Brow Lift Cheek Implants Chin Implant Eyelid Surgery Face Lift Neck Lift Rhinoplasty Dental Surgery Implants Veneers Crowns Teeth Whitening Bariatric Surgery Gastric Band Gastric Bypass Gastric Balloon Gender Surgery Male to Female Female to Male FFS Non Surgical Botox Lasik Chemical Peels Teeth Whitening Cosmetic Tattoos Varicose Vein Treatment Scar and Tattoo Removal Hair Removal and Restoration Copyright © 2012 Metamorphosis Medical Retreats. All Rights Reser