Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=100
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html
Vary: Accept-Encoding

An apple a day may keep the dentist away - Delta Dental Skip to page content Individuals & Enrollees Dentists Employers Administrators Brokers About Us Legal Notices Contact Us Delta Dental en Español Your Location Oral Health Home Articles An apple a day may keep the dentist away Dietary habits of school children encourage an increase in sugar intake leading to a greater risk of cavities, reports the Academy of General Dentistry. Over a 15-month period, researchers tracked the dietary habits and monitored the teeth of preschool children before and after the start of school. Results show that decayed, missing or filled teeth and initial cavities of the children jumped from 9.7 (at age five) to 15.3 cavities (at age six), an increase of 5.6 cavities within one year. Over the length of the study, the percentage of cavity-free school children dropped from 23 to 19 percent. "This study substantiates the basics taught to dental school students that diet is an important part of proper oral health," says Marilynn Belek, DMD, chief dental officer and senior vice president for Delta Dental. The easiest way parents can help children prevent tooth decay and cavities at school, Dr. Belek says, is to monitor their eating habits. For example, parents can offer their children healthy snack alternatives such as apples, bite-size carrots or other foods that are naturally sweet, and instruct children to avoid candies, chocolate, caramels, soda, chocolate milk and other foods that contain refined sugar. Cavity-causing organisms feed on sugar and turn it into acid, which attacks tooth enamel and causes tooth decay. Sticky, chewy candy especially can linger on teeth throughout the day. If children do happen to eat sugary snacks at lunch, they should brush and rinse with water or eat a piece of fruit to help clean teeth surfaces and gums. Dr. Belek also encourages parents to find out what their child's school lunch program offers. "If programs do not offer healthy alternatives, talk to the school about incorporating healthy lunches or snacks," she adds. Finally, parents should consider professionally-applied sealants as another way to protect children's teeth from cavities. Sealants, a thin coating of bonding material applied over a tooth, act as a barrier to cavity-causing bacteria. They can be put on as soon as the child's first permanent molars (back teeth) appear. An apple a day may keep the dentist away. Academy of General Dentistry . Oral Health Topics Kids & Teens Seniors Emergency Care Conditions Mouth-Body Connection Preventive Care Dental Treatments Resources Glossary of Dental Terms Glossary of Insurance Terms Oral Health Booklet A collection of our top oral health tips in a printer-friendly file. Stay Informed Watch Your Health Diet and your dental health 02:58 Shortcuts Delta Dental Insurance for Individuals Dentists Employers Administrators Brokers Corporate Information About Us Careers Privacy and Security Legal Notices Contact Us © Delta Dental. This site is the home of Delta Dental of California, Delta Dental Insurance Company, Delta Dental of Pennsylvania, Delta Dental of the District of Columbia, Delta Dental of Delaware, Delta Dental of West Virginia, their affiliated companies, and Delta Dental of New York.  For other Delta Dental Plans Association member c