Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Relieving Back Pain Back
                              Home Sign up for our 
						newsletter today & get free weekly tips & access to a Free 'You 
						Deserve A Break' Report that shares 15 different 
								ways to relax and give yourself 
								the down-time that you deserve. First Name: Email Address: Life Coaching - Free Session Subscribe to our Newsletter Free
                                  Advertising Business Opportunities Visit Our Blog (updated daily) Personal
                              Solutions Coffee
                                  Break Healthy
                                  Living Pamper
                                  Yourself Stay
                                  Motivated Self-Confidence Get
                                  Organized Finances Your
                                  Caree r Test Family
                              Solutions Parenting Education Family
                                  Outings Child
                                  Safety Home
                                  Safety Healthy
                                  Recipes Crafts
                                  For Kids Holiday
                                  Planning Entertainment Parties Weddings Baby
                                  Showers Party
                                  Themes Party
                                  Supplies Movie
                                  Reviews Book
                                  Reviews Aurelia's Articles Relieving Back Pain Unfortunately, most people 
						will experience back pain at some point in their lives and finding ways to go 
						about relieving back pain is critical.. Here are some 
						tips on what you can do to heal and being relieving back 
						pain . The Key Steps for 
						Relieving Back Pain (ARA) – Back pain is the second most prevalent pain 
						complaint, second only to chronic headaches, according 
						to the National Pain Foundation. Statistics show that 50 
						to 80 percent of people will be disabled by back pain at 
						some point during their lives. Do you suffer from chronic back pain at work? Have you 
						been in an accident that has damaged your spine? Many 
						people claim that the lower back is their "weakest link" 
						and wish they could do more to protect it and keep it in 
						shape. Visit with your doctor and discuss the type of back pain 
						you're experiencing. She can help pinpoint the area of 
						pain, cause of pain, stage of the injury (acute, 
						sub-acute or chronic), and a strategy for relieving the 
						pain. The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons reports, 
						"The majority of back pain occurs in the lower lumbar 
						region, with the most in the fourth and fifth lumbars 
						adjacent to the sacrum." Interestingly, strengthening 
						and supporting your stomach muscles is one of the keys 
						to a stronger back. Try this test: Overlap your hands and place them on your 
						lower belly. Then lift inward and upward. If you feel an 
						immediate relaxation in your lower back, you might need 
						a lumosacral back support belt, the most common type of 
						belt. A back support belt is a fantastic nonsurgical option 
						that helps reduce pain and prevent injury by delivering 
						the abdominal compression critical for lower back 
						support. Unfortunately, many people resist using a belt 
						because they've heard they don't fit correctly, make you 
						sweat and are generally uncomfortable. Don't let what you've heard deter you from trying a back 
						belt, a noninvasive option that is very affordable. You 
						just need to know what to look for so you get the right 
						belt for you. Core Products International, maker of a variety of 
						therapeutic products, has a patented CorFit Belt Fitting 
						System that sizes back support belts proportionally in 
						both width and height. With the CorFit 7000 that means a 
						taller belt for a larger person and a shorter belt for 
						someone more petite -- no more uncomfortable gaps or 
						digging into the ribs. The right size helps the belt 
						stay put where it should so you get the maximum comfort 
						and benefit. Other things to look for in a back belt include: Breathability -- allows airflow Compression -- provides circumferential pressure around 
						the joint and surrounding area Flexibility -- allows freedom of movement Stability -- provides additional support to weak 
						structures Many back belt manufacturers like Core provide ratings 
						along these support parameters. Now that you have talked to your doctor and plan to use 
						your belt during periods of activity and when you need 
						pain relief, you can think about how to heal and 
						strengthen the back so you reduce and/or eliminate the 
						pain in the future. Maintaining a healthy weight and exercising your muscles 
						regularly is important to strengthening the back and 
						correcting problems. With the consent of your doctor, 
						try some mild exercises several times a week. For 
						example, take a walk or go for a swim. Get the family 
						out for a hike or play some ball with the kids. Exercise 
						increases blood flow, which provides fresh oxygen and 
						nutrients to the muscles while removing waste. When you are at work or when you are exercising, 
						remember to practice proper body mechanics. When 
						standing, use a neutral pelvic position. When sitting, 
						keep your knees and hips level and support your lower 
						back by using a good chair or using a lumbar support 
						cushion to promote proper posture. Always lift smart by 
						letting your legs do the work and ask for help if 
						necessary. For more information about CorFit Lumbosacral belts, 
						visit www.CoreProducts.com or call (877) 249-1251. Courtesy of ARAcontent Additional Resources Stay
                        Connected : Solutions By Email Receive
                        our free monthly newsletter packed with motivational
                        thoughts, articles, tips, products and resources to help
                        you make your family's life healthier and fun. We help
                        you handle today's tough issues like healthier lifestyles,
                        child development, education, self-appreciation and
                        more. Receive Monthly Newsletter Copyright &copy
        2002-03 Real Life Solutions & Aurelia Williams. All Rights Reserved.. About
        Us | Contact Us | Newsletter | Opportunity | Advertising | Links | Home Privacy
        Policy || Web