Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Anti-depressant Medication Used to Treat Low Back Pain Treatments › Drugs And Medications › Text Size: A A A Anti-depressant Medication Used to Treat Low Back Pain Written by Gerard Malanga, MD Tweet This article is part of a nine-article series on medications used to treat low back pain.  You can jump around the series using the following links: Medications and Treatment of Acute Low Back Pain Acetaminophen in the Treatment of Acute Low Back Pain Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) in the Treatment of Acute Low Back Pain Muscle Relaxants in the Treatment of Acute Low Back Pain Opioids in the Treatment of Low Back Pain Corticosteroids in the Treatment of Low Back Pain Colchichine in the Treatment of Low Back Pain Anti-depressant Medications Used to Treat Low Back Pain Conclusion:  Acute Low Back Pain & Medication While several classes of anti-depressants have been  used successfully in the treatment of a variety of pain syndromes, the literature  most strongly supports the analgesic efficacy of the tricyclics (anti-depressant  drug). Amitriptyline (a type of anti-depressant) has been investigated as an analgesic  more than the other anti-depressant agents and appears to be the most popular  anti-depressant analgesic in the clinical setting. Migraine headaches, neuropathic  pain associated with diabetic neuropathy, and postherpetic neuralgia have been  found to respond favorably to anti-depressant administration. These agents have  also been found to alleviate the pain associated with musculoskeletal conditions  such as fibromyalgia , rheumatoid arthritis , and osteoarthritis . Anti-depressants  have been successfully utilized in the treatment of cancer pain. In the cancer  population, when administered concurrently with an anti-depressant, opioid agents  may be used at a reduced dose and with a diminished incidence of side effects. The analgesic abilities of anti-depressants were once felt to be related to the  alleviation of the depression, which can often accompany persistent pain, but  several anti-depressants have been found to reduce pain symptoms in patients not  experiencing co-morbid depression. These agents are now believed to have primary  analgesic abilities, which are most likely related to their effects on monoamines  in endogenous pain pathways. The efficacy of both serotonin and norepinephrine  selective anti-depressants would suggest that effects on pathways which involve  either of these transmitters might contribute to analgesia. Other suggested mechanisms  of analgesia involve the antihistamine properties of some agents, increased endorphin  secretion, and an increased density of cortical calcium channels. You may be interested in these related articles: Opioids for Severe Back Pain and Neck Pain Low Back Pain Center Anti-depressants for Back Pain and Neck Pain Medications for Back Pain and Neck Pain In a study of  44 patients admitted for low back pain, Jenkins et al compared treatment with  oral imipramine (Tofranil®), 25-mg t.i.d. (three times per day), with placebo  over a four-week period. After treatment, no significant difference in improvement  in straight leg raising, pain and stiffness assessments, nor psychological testing  was noted between the two study groups. In those individuals with apparent discogenic  pain, imipramine treated patients demonstrated greater improvement in pain and  stiffness, but this was not found to be statistically significant. No significant  difference in side effects was noted between the two groups. In a study of 48  patients with chronic low back pain, treatment with imipramine was compared to  placebo. Seven of the patients included were determined clinically depressed according  to standard criteria. Patients completed Beck depression questionnaires at both  the initial and final visits. Depression score improvements, while not statistically  significant, were noted in those patients who benefited from imipramine treatment.  Individuals treated with imipramine did demonstrate a significant improvement  in both limitations of work and restrictions in normal activities. Anticholinergic  side effects were associated with a 10% dropout rate. In a review of the literature  on anti-depressants in the treatment of chronic low back pain, Egbunike et al  concluded that the most consistent responses were found with doxepin (Sinequan®)  and desipramine at doses above 150-mg daily. Some studies may have failed to demonstrate  a response secondary to inadequate dosing. Other anti-depressants were found less  effective in providing analgesia. In several studies reviewed, while improvements  in depression were observed, poor correlations were noted between analgesic effects  and changes in the severity of depression. The relationship between pain relief  and anti-depressant effect remains unclear. Dosage Tricyclic anti-depressants  (TCAs) produce analgesia at lower dosages than are typically prescribed for the  treatment of depression. The starting dose of the tricyclics should be low. Initial  daily dosing of amitriptyline should be 10-mg in elderly patients and 25-mg in  younger individuals. Every two to three days an increment in dosing equal to the  initial starting dose can be made until adequate analgesia is achieved or adverse  effects develop. The typical effective daily dose of amitriptyline ranges from  50- to 150-mg, although doses as low as 10-25-mg can be helpful in some patients.  As the TCA half-life is generally long and sedation is a common side effect, single  nighttime dosing can be prescribed. Some patients report better pain relief and  less morning drowsiness with divided daily dosing. Those studies, which have investigated  the analgesic efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), have  typically involved dosages similar to those prescribed in the management of depression,  20- to 40-mg of fluoxetine or paroxetine. Further research is needed in order  to clarify the relationship between dosage and analgesia with the serotonin specific  agents. Adverse Effects The occurrence of serious adverse effects resulting from  antidepressant administration is low. These complications would be rare at the  generally lower dosages utilized in the treatment of pain. While cardiac side  effects are uncommon, tricyclics are contraindicated in those individuals with  heart failure or serious cardiac conduction abnormalities. Orthostatic hypotension  is the most frequent cardiovascular adverse effect, and the elderly are particularly  at risk. The sedating effect often observed with anti-depressant use can be beneficial  as patients with pain often demonstrate diminished daytime functioning from inadequate  sleep. Anticholinergic side effects such as dry mouth, blurred vision, and urinary  retention are more likely with amitriptyline use than with other TCAs. These effects  are also less likely at the lower dosages used for analgesia. Nortriptyline and  desipramine have been found to induce fewer anticholinergic side effects and are  less sedating. While anti-depressants have been demonstrated as useful adjuncts  in the treatment of pain, their analgesic mechanism remains unclear. Initial dosing  should be low and then slowly increased to minimize side effects. When taken at  night, the sedating properties of these agents can be beneficial in those pain  patients experiencing difficulty with sleep. View Sources Reference: Malanga GA, et al. Pharmacologic Treatment of Low Back Pain. In Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation State of the Art Reviews, Philadelphia, Hanley and Belfus Vol.13, No.3, October, 1999 Updated on: 01/12/10 Continue Reading: Conclusion:  Acute Low Back Pain and Medication Medication Basics Medications Overview Spine Conditions Treated with Medications Medications FAQ Types of Medications Analgesics Anti-depressants Biologics Corticosteroids Muscle Relaxants Neuropathic Agents NSAIDs Opioids Topical Medications Resources Ask the Experts Spinal Anatomy Spinal Conditions A-Z Videos and Animations Treatment Update Could my low back pain be SI-joint related? Learn more » Email Page Print RSS Discuss Stay Informed with SpineUniverse Sign up to receive free updates on news, research, Community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics. Back Pain Chronic Pain Drugs and Medications Fibromyalgia Pain Management Discuss your Back pain with the patient community. Related Resources Slideshow Herniated Disc Slideshow Slideshow Sciatica Slideshow Resource Center Surgical & Non-Surgical Options for a Pain-free Life Sponsored by: Quiz Chronic Pain Treatments Quiz From our Sponsor Could your low back pain be SI-joint related? Video Series Video Series:  Exercises for Spondylolisthesis Video Low Back Pain Animation Resource Center Minimally Invasive Alternatives to Traditional Spine Surgery Sponsored by: Connect with Others in the Patient Community! Log In or Sign Up Now! Conditions Ankylosing Spondylitis Back Pain Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Discs Fibromyalgia Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Kyphosis Low Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Sciatica Scoliosis Spinal Cord Injury Spinal Fractures Spinal Stenosis Spinal Tumors Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis) Sprains and Strains Upper Back Pain Whiplash Other Back Problems A-Z Treatments Alternative Treatments Chiropractic Drugs and Medications Mental & Emotional Therapy Pain Management Physical Therapy Spinal Bracing Surgery Wellness Ergonomics Exercise Weight Loss Resources Back Products Clinical Trials Exams and Tests Links of Interest Partners in Education Podcasts Recommended Books Resource Centers Spinal Anatomy SpineAdvisor eNewsletter Archive SpineUniverse en Español Video Directory Community Advice Find A Specialist Expert Blogs For Professionals Spine Conditions Ankylosing Spondylitis Back Pain Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Discs Fibromyalgia Kyphosis Neck Pain Osteoporosis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sciatica Scoliosis Spinal Stenosis Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis) Other Back Problems A-Z Back Pain and Neck Pain Resources Spinal Anatomy Community Advice Clinical Trials Exams and Tests Expert Blogs Find a Doctor for Your Back Pain SpineUniverse en Español SpineAdvisor eNewsletter Archive Back Pain Resource Centers Back Pain Video Directory Policy and Contact About SpineUniverse Press Releases Our Awards Advertising Opportunities Editorial Board Editorial Guidelines Partners and Sponsors Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Terms of Use Contact Us For Professionals © 1999-2012 Vertical Health, LLC This information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem. SpineUniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the SpineUniverse.com site is conditio