
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 00:32:37 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: e1f0b05281bf4a344e9e16780995d84b
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 27 Mar 2012 00:32:37 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treating Migraine By Accupuncture | migraine-overview | migraine-headache Headache Updates Headache Relief Sitemap Contact Us Treating Migraine By Accupuncture For most people in the west, the entire concept of 
willingly sticking needles into your body is a bit suspect. In fact, 
most people probably have to reach a certain point of no return to even 
consider the very idea of acupuncture. Unfortunately, most migraine 
sufferers will no doubt reach that point of return at some point. 
Migraines headache pain can be unbearable to the point of excruciating 
and almost anyone who has ever suffered more than one migraine has 
reached a level of pain at which they would welcome a little pinprick if 
it meant a cessation of their migraine agony. But does acupuncture actually relieve migraine symptoms? Although 
several studies have concluded that acupuncture is an effective migraine 
prevention strategy, nothing conclusive has yet been determined, though 
much research is available to suggest that it is effective for managing 
mild to moderate migraine attacks. How acupuncture treatment typically 
works is by inserting fine needles specific points on the body, which 
are then gently manipulated with the needles. This supposedly increases blood flow in the tissues. This blood flow is called 
the axon reflex. It works by dilating the blood vessels around the needle area, 
allowing for an increase circulation where blood flow had previously 
been poor. This process is called stagnation and is considered to be a 
very good response for most chronic conditions for which one would seek 
acupuncture treatment, including migraine prevention. This is not the only method of using acupuncture to treat migraines, however. 
Because the pain experienced during a migraine is associated with the 
dilation of cranial blood vessels, prompting the reaction described 
above by inserting needles into the head and neck might not be the best 
thing to do during a migraine episode. In fact, it could worsen the pain 
and bring on nausea. For that reason, some acupuncture practitioners try 
to reduce the amount of movement in the blood vessels in the head and 
neck during a migraine attack by restricting the acupuncture points to 
those on the arms and legs. To avoid unnecessary dilation of the cranial vessels, therefore, the head and
neck areas are rarely stimulated. In addition, rather than treating the patient in a prone 
position as would normally be done, this method of treatment is usually 
done with the patient sitting up because the blood vessels are can be 
better controlled when in a sitting position. This greatly reduces the 
possibility of undesired dilation of the blood vessels following 
acupuncture. Under some circumstances, a high frequency electrical 
current is sometimes connected to the acupuncture needles in order to 
help with constricting of vessels. Of course, like most other treatments for migraine pain, acupuncture doesn’t
come without its own side effects. Unfortunately, when it comes to acupuncture, 
it’s less a question of side effects and more a question of side injuries. Unlike 
the most common side effects of medication—nausea, vomiting, swelling, 
hives—when acupuncture goes bad it can be life threatening. The most 
common serious injury associated with acupuncture involves the 
accidental puncture of the lung, which often results in a partial 
collapse of the lung. In addition, one should also be aware of the 
dangers of infection. The most common infection associated with acupuncture treatments is viral hepatitis, 
which can potentially develop into a serious infection of the liver. Other possible
side effects include bacterial infections developing locally at the site of needle 
insertion in the skin and elsewhere in the body. Generally, side effects 
seem to relate to poor hygiene and training of the acupuncturist so make 
sure you see some qualifications of your acupuncturist and get some 
recommendations beforehand if possible. Throwing a money wrench into the whole idea, unfortunately, was a report sponsored 
by the Journal of the American Medical Association that claimed to find no 
available evidenced supporting the contention that acupuncture possesses 
any effectiveness in treating migraines. Until other studies 
conclusively reach the same opinion, however, the decision on whether to 
seek treatment by sticking needles into your body remains between you 
and your pain threshold. Related Articles Effective Migraine Treatments... The Best Ways To Treat Migraine Headache... Migraine Massage Therapy... Treatment Of Migraines With Coexisting Medical Con... Few Effective Home Migraine Treatments!... Menu Headache Guide Headache Types Headache Treatments Headache Tests Cluster Headache Causes of Headache Migraine Types of Migraine Sinus Headache Popular Articles The Latest Migraine Headache Medication Diamond Headache Clinic – A Renowned Headache Care Center Hypnosis Can Set You Free From Headache Treating Headache With Acupressure Try Some Home Remedies For Headaches Top Headache Treatment For Quick Headache Relief Dealing With Headaches At Work Or School Use Shiatsu For Headache Relief Can Meditation Bring You Relief From Headache? Sinus Headaches Pain Relief, Go for Acupuncture! Search Articles Causes Of Headache Diagnosis Of Symptoms Treatment Of Headache Headache Relief Cluster Headache Prognosis Of Headache Migraine Headache Sinus Headaches Know Your Pain Overview Types Of Headache Latest Articles Find The Reason Of Your Headache Too Much Of TV Watching Can Cause Headaches Perfumes Can Trigger Headaches Yoga Poses For Headache Relief Dangerous Headaches In Pregnancy Headache And Brain Tumor Understanding Sun Exposure Headache And How To Cure It How To Get Rid Of Helium Headaches? Food Items That Trigger Headaches Coping With Holiday Headaches Copyright © 2006 - 2012 Headache Update