
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 18 Mar 2012 08:35:19 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://wisdomtoothremovalcosts.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Tooth Decay – Causes, Symptoms, Treatment and Prevention | Wisdom Tooth Removal Cost Wisdom Tooth Removal Cost Get Rid of Wisdom Teeth Pain Home About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy « Preventing Tooth Decay by Developing Good Habits zoba izraušana » Tooth Decay – Causes, Symptoms, Treatment and Prevention What is Tooth Decay? Tooth decay also known as dental caries or cavities is a common disease which affects a large percentage of the world population. It is widespread and generally occurs due to poor oral habits. Tooth decay is the demineralization of tooth by the acid releasing bacteria. These acids cause the tooth to decay. The decay begins on the outer surface of the tooth and progresses to deeper layers. Causes of Tooth Decay Tooth decay is not a suddenly occurring event. It occurs due to a constantly acting cause such as poor oral habits. Poor oral hygiene causes formation of plaque which is responsible for initiating caries formation. The organisms responsible for causing tooth decay are Streptococcus Mutans and Lactobacillus. These bacteria release acids which initiates the decay of the teeth. The leading cause of caries is poor oral hygiene. Not brushing often and improper brushing leads to poor oral hygiene. Not rinsing after meals, excessive intake of starch and sugary diet, smoking also contributes to tooth decay. Symptoms of Tooth Decay Initially, there are no symptoms of tooth decay till it has progressed extensively. A white chalky spot may appear on the tooth which indicates dissolution of the outer layer of tooth which is the enamel. The white chalky spot appears in only few cases and not in all. As the tooth decay progresses, this white chalky spot turns brown due to further decay. The demineralization causes the area to become soft. The decay progresses in to deeper layers. When the decay has progressed in to deeper layers where nerves are present, it causes pain and sensitivity. Prevention of Tooth Decay The best way to prevent dental caries is by following a proper oral care routine. This will ensure good oral hygiene which best keeps dental caries at bay. You don’t have to try anything fancy to maintain a good oral hygiene. Just sticking to the basics of oral hygiene would do such as brushing your teeth two times a day. Flossing your teeth at least once every alternate day. Regular dental check ups by the dentist at least once in three months. When the patient is at risk of developing tooth decay, the dentist can take certain measures to protect the patient such as: - Topical Fluoride: Applying Fluoride in the form of Stannous Fluoride on the tooth surface which prevents caries. This occurs due to the strengthening of the enamel by formation of fluoropatite. -Fissure Sealants (Dental Sealants): These are applied on chewing surfaces of the molars (which are at high risk of developing caries).This prevents Plaque formation. This is especially done in children Treatment of Tooth Decay It is essential to identify whether specific habits are causing dental decay. These can be checked to prevent future occurrences of tooth decay. Fillings: The tooth structure which has decayed cannot be recovered and must be replaced by a restorative material. This treatment is called Filling or restoration. The decayed part of the tooth is removed and filled by a suitable restorative material such as amalgam or composite. Root Canal Treatment (RCT): If tooth decay has progressed to the nerves, an RCT is suggested. The entire pulp is removed and filled with inert material and sealed. A cap is also applied in most cases. DentalHealthSite.Com ? dental care tips and useful dental hygiene articles. Read also our articles on teeth grinding and tooth extraction . Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website About after Best Braces Breath Care Causes Cosmetic Cost Decay Dental Dentist Dentistry Dentists Disease Extraction From getting gums Health Home Implant Implants Invisalign Know Natural Oral Pain part Problems Pulling remedies Removal Should Sinus Smile Surgeon Surgery Symptoms teeth Tooth Toothache Treatment Whitening Wisdom Affordable Dentures Adds New Practice in LaGrange - Dentistry IQ March 17, 2012 Affordable Dentures Adds New Practice in LaGrangeDentistry IQOletha Simmons, DDS, announced the opening of her Affordable Dentures dental practice in La Grange at 1300 Lafayette Parkway, Suite E, in Lafayette Centre. According to a release, her practice provides dentures and related denture and tooth-extraction ... […] Toothaches Can Turn Deadly If Not Treated Properly - MyFox Chicago March 16, 2012 Toothaches Can Turn Deadly If Not Treated ProperlyMyFox ChicagoDr. Everod Coleman explained that “90 percent of the population has some kind of dental problem,” and the bigger problem is that “people don't realize that the mouth is connected to the body." Losing teeth is about the worst Edwin Bryant thought could ... […] X-ray, photos disprove tooth extraction patient's claims - Stabroek News March 14, 2012 X-ray, photos disprove tooth extraction patient's claimsStabroek NewsBy Stabroek staff | 0 Comments | Local | Wednesday, March 14, 2012 An x-ray and pictures taken from different angles refute claims by city businessman Nigel Reid that his recent tooth extraction resulted in extraneous damage. […] More dental patients seeking care in Lubbock emergency rooms - LubbockOnline.com March 12, 2012 More dental patients seeking care in Lubbock emergency roomsLubbockOnline.comA majority have toothaches related to an abscess or a tooth that needs to be extracted, she said. Some of the cases are accident related, but most are untreated, long-term dental problems. “I think they go to the emergency room because they're ...and more » […] Kansas Health Foundation launches dental campaign - Kansas City Star March 12, 2012 Kansas City StarKansas Health Foundation launches dental campaignKansas City StarIt offers advanced training for dental-school graduates and reduced-cost services to patients. Hart decided to have her tooth pulled there. It cost her about $200 for cleaning, X-rays and the extraction. “I didn't realize how sick this tooth was making ...Report: Dental woe […] Man complains of nightmare tooth extraction - Stabroek News March 12, 2012 Man complains of nightmare tooth extractionStabroek News... March 12, 2012 A city businessman is threatening legal action following what he described as a frightening ordeal at the Kitsingh Dental Clinic and Lab located at Peter's Hall, East Bank Demerara where he went on Saturday to extract a tooth.and more » […] Trinity Health Ministries dental clinic approaches 6th anniversary - Maryville Daily Times March 12, 2012 Trinity Health Ministries dental clinic approaches 6th anniversaryMaryville Daily TimesTrinity Health Ministries, a Christian, nonprofit organization, was founded almost six years ago — on April 26, 2006 — and since then has logged over 9000 patient visits and extracted an astounding 12000 teeth. The ministry was created by a group of ... […] Mark in Hospital for Tooth Extraction - AllAfrica.com March 8, 2012 Mark in Hospital for Tooth ExtractionAllAfrica.comA statement yesterday by Mark's Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Paul Mumeh, said his principal was in the hospital for tooth extraction. The statement said the Senate president arrived the hospital at 10:00 am and was ushered into the theatre by Consultant ... […] Patients line up before dawn for free dental care - Twin Cities Planet March 6, 2012 Patients line up before dawn for free dental careTwin Cities PlanetBy Linda Williams, TC Daily Planet Free dental care was provided to hundreds of new patients in need of a tooth extraction or a filling at Shamblott Family Dentistry in Hopkins, MN on February 24. The annual community giving event has been sponsored by ... […] Poor tooth extraction cannot cause blindness - The Observer (blog) February 28, 2012 Poor tooth extraction cannot cause blindnessThe Observer (blog)Singer Fred Maiso's death recently was followed by the revelation that he had supposedly been blinded by a poorly done tooth extraction. While commenting on a Facebook post (related to Maiso's death and the supposed botched-up tooth extraction job), ... […] Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Statement Copyr