<http://www.bariatriclearningcenter.com/?p=497>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

New Options for UK Weight Loss Surgery - Bodycraft Opens New Clinics Bariatric Learning Center Bariatric Surgery News and Updates Home About Articles Glossary Resources Disclaimer Privacy Policy You are here: Home / Surgery Centers / UK Weight Loss Surgery Clinics Opened by Bodycraft – Two London Locations UK Weight Loss Surgery Clinics Opened by Bodycraft – Two London Locations February 10, 2012 | © 2012, Brandon Cornett, All rights reserved Welcome to the Bariatric Learning Center. We publish independent, unbiased news about the bariatric weight-loss surgery. Patients undergoing weight loss surgery in the UK will have some additional options soon. Bodycraft Weight Loss, a surgery provider based in London, recently announced that it is expanding its operation in 2012. The company has opened additional surgery centers to accommodate the ever-rising number of patients seeking these procedures. The new clinics will offer a variety of weight loss surgery options for UK patients, including gastric bypass and banding. Gastric bypass is a surgical procedure that aims to reduce the patient’s gastronomic capacity by dividing the stomach into two sections. The upper portion remains usable, but with a much smaller capacity than before. The lower, larger portion of the stomach is mostly unused after the weight loss surgery. This reduces the amount of food the patient can eat, leading to an eventual reduction in weight. The small intestine is “rearranged” to connect with both portions of the newly divided stomach. Patients seeking weight loss surgery in the UK have several types of procedures to choose from. “Gastric bypass” is actually a broad term that can refer to several procedures, such as the Roux-en-Y bypass and the so-called mini bypass. Additionally, UK patients can opt for a gastric banding procedure, in which an adjustable band is placed around the patient’s stomach. The band serves much the same purpose as the bypass surgery, dividing the stomach into two sections in order to achieve weight loss. The Need for More Weight Loss Surgery Centers Bodycraft has been performing UK weight loss surgeries since 2010. According to their spokesperson, the organization has grown quickly in response to a strong demand for gastric bypass and banding. The company said that it has opened two new clinics in the London area, to accommodate an ever-growing patient base. One clinic is located at Harley Street — the second is in Fitzroy Square. The additional locations are meant to provide greater convenience and accessibility for patients seeking weight loss surgery in the UK at large, and in London specifically. The company offers bariatric surgery for UK patients who are struggling with obesity. They offer gastric bypass and banding procedures, as well as the laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Also referred to as the “gastric sleeve” surgery, the sleeve gastrectomy differs from most other bariatric procedures in that a large portion of the stomach is actually removed. The open portions are then reconnected to form a tube-shaped “sleeve,” hence the name of the procedure. After the surgery, the patient’s stomach will have roughly one-fourth of its original capacity. This leads to the intake of smaller meals in the short term, and weight loss in the longer term. The gastric sleeve is an increasing popular type of weight loss surgery in the UK, and also in the United States. In addition to providing the surgical procedures themselves, Bodycraft offers counseling and dietary support. This comprehensive approach is meant to provide better support for patients, both before and after their surgeries. No Shortage of Patients in the UK Sadly, there is no shortage or obese patients seeking weight loss surgery in the UK. According to some studies, the UK has the highest percentage of overweight residents of any country in Europe. Currently, 60% of residents meet the clinical definition of “overweight,” and roughly one-fourth meet the definition of “obese.” What’s worse, the trend toward obesity seems to be accelerating. In 2011, the National Health Service (NHS) stated that “past trends predicted that by 2030 the prevalence of obesity [in the UK] would rise from 26% to 41 – 48% in men, and from 26% to 35 – 43% in women.” This would add up to an additional 11 million obese people between now and 2030. There will almost certainly be a corresponding rise in the number of bariatric weight-loss surgeries in the UK. These statistics go a long way in explaining the need for more bariatric surgeons and surgery centers in the UK, such as those recently opened by Bodycraft. And they might need additional clinics in the future, a spokesperson said. “We are continually expanding our offering,” the spokesperson said. Editorial Note: This information was adapted from a news release distributed by Bodycraft, a UK weight loss surgery provider. We make no claims or assertions about this company, nor can we answer questions about their services. This article should not be viewed as an endorsement of the above-named organization. The Bariatric Learning Center seeks to provide as much information as possible to patients seeking weight loss surgery. Our news-distribution service is one of the ways we meet this goal. We encourage you to conduct additional research about your bariatric surgery options in the UK. To learn more about their services, you can contact Bodycraft on freephone at 0800 862 0343. You can also visit their website at http://www.bodycraftweightloss.co.uk to receive additional information. Filed Under: Surgery Centers Speak Your Mind Cancel reply Name * Email * Website Search the Site Recent News UK Weight Loss Surgery Clinics Opened by Bodycraft – Two London Locations Teens Lack Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery: The Real Story Oregon Pays for Some Weight Loss Surgery Study: Weight-Loss Surgery Safe for the Mildly Obese? Knoxville Bariatric Surgeons Earn ASMBS Certification Bariatric Surgeons Lobby the FDA for Broader Use of Lap Band Sponsored Links Bariatric Vo