Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Article Acupuncture on the Rate of Pregnancy Home About Dr Services Specialties Testimonials FAQ Herbs Contact acupuncture dallas DR. LIN ZHOU, O.M.D., L.AC. FABORM Our Practice Infertility -- Infertility & IVF Support -- Unexplained Infertility -- High FSH & Poor Egg Quality -- PCOS -- Relaxed Conception -- Endometriosis -- Pregnancy First Trimester -- Fertility & Diet -- Fertility & Lifestyle -- Scientific Studies -- Chinese Herbal Medicine Women's Health -- Women of All Ages -- Menstruation -- Menopause Pain Management -- How Acupuncture Helps Pain -- Back Pain -- Headaches & Migraines -- Endometriosis Allergies Depression, Anxiety & Insomnia Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Facial Rejuvenation Stop Smoking Cancer Care Site Map Recent Studies Research Shows Chinese Herbal Formula is Effective for Use in Treating PCOS in Women This finding indicates that wen-jing-tang Chinese herbal formula is appropriate for use in treating PCOS in women with various constitutions Revitalize Your Health with Acupuncture and Nutrition Preventive medicine is defined as the part of medicine engaged with preventing disease rather than curing it. Electro-Acupuncture Increases Blood Flow to Testis Acupuncture point and frequency-specific effects of abdominal EA on Testicular Blood Flow are shown in humans. Acupuncture for the IVF Poor Responders Conclusions: Significant increases in pregnancy outcomes were confirmed by this study and the data uniquely supported the advantage of acupuncture in patients with normal Pulsatility index. We also demonstrated that both acupuncture treatment protocols could be used together with a synergistic effect. Evaluating Acupuncture as an Adjunct to IVF Conclusions: Our study shows a significantly lower amount of gonadotropins used when IVF is combined with standard acupuncture. A 70% pregnancy rate was also achieved with standard acupuncture and IVF, compared to 25%. Larger prospective trials are necessary. Point Newsletter Alleviate Your Stress with Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine As a normal part of life, stress enables us to get things done. If left unmanaged, stress can lead to emotional, psychological, and even physical problems... Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture A neurological disorder refers to a problem with the nervous system, which is... About Depression Mental and emotional  problems can interfere with one's life in every aspect. Acupuncture for Fibromyalgia Syndrome Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) affects an estimated 2 percent of the population. Conventional therapies are limited in the success of treating The unique advantage of Chinese Medicine for Infertility Traditional Chinese medicine has been used to treat infertility for almost two thousand years.  The significant results have drawn more attention nowadays Acupuncture and Menopause: Creating Physical and Emotional Health with Acupuncture With its close understanding of the female body, Oriental medicine has always addressed the special needs of women throughout their lives. Archives Infertility | IVF (10) Menstruation | Menopause (5) Pains (12) Allergies (2) Depression | Anxiety (2) Others (7) Effects of acupuncture on rates of pregnancy and live birth among women undergoing in vitro fertilisation: systematic review and meta-analysis Manheimer; Zhang; Udoff; Haramati; Langenberg; Berman; Bouter February 7, 2008 - Acupuncture has been associated with statistically and   clinically significant improvements in pregnancy rates resulting from the embryo   transfer process, according to the results of a systematic review and   meta-analysis published online February 7 in the British Medical Journal .   In China, acupuncture has been used for centuries to help control the female   reproductive system. "Firstly, acupuncture may mediate the release of neurotransmitters, which may   in turn stimulate secretion of gonadotrophin releasing hormone, thereby   influencing the menstrual cycle, ovulation, and fertility," write Eric   Manheimer, from the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore, and   colleagues. "Secondly, acupuncture may stimulate blood flow to the uterus by   inhibiting uterine central sympathetic nerve activity. Thirdly, acupuncture may   stimulate the production of endogenous opioids, which may inhibit the central   nervous system outflow and the biological stress response." The goal of this systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled   trials was to assess the effect of acupuncture given with embryo transfer on the   rates of pregnancy and live birth among women undergoing in vitro   fertilization. Using Medline, Cochrane Central, Embase, Chinese Biomedical Database,   hand-searched abstracts, and reference lists, the authors identified randomized   controlled trials comparing needle acupuncture given within 1 day of embryo   transfer vs sham acupuncture or no adjuvant treatment, with reported outcomes of   clinical pregnancy, ongoing pregnancy, and/or live birth. For all of the included trials, the investigators contributed additional   data, such as live birth rate, that were not included in the original   publication(s). Two reviewers independently determined study eligibility,   evaluated methodological quality of the included trials, and extracted outcome   data. All randomized patients (1366 women enrolled in 7 trials) were included in   the meta-analyses. Clinical factors were relatively homogeneous among the included studies. For   the primary analysis, trials with sham acupuncture and no adjuvant treatment   were pooled as controls. Administering acupuncture with the embryo transfer process was linked to   significant and clinically relevant improvements in clinical pregnancy (odds   ratio [OR], 1.65; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.27 ?2.14; number needed to   treat [NNT], 10 [95% CI, 7 ?17]; 7 trials), ongoing pregnancy (OR, 1.87; 95% CI,   1.40 ?2.49; NNT, 9 [95% CI, 6 ?15]; 5 trials), and live birth (OR, 1.91, 95% CI,   1.39 ?2.64; NNT, 9 [95% CI, 6 ?17]; 4 trials). Outcome data on live births were not available for 3 of the included trials.   Therefore, the reviewers suggest that the pooled OR for clinical pregnancy more   accurately represents the true combined effect from these trials than does the   OR for live birth. These findings were robust to sensitivity analyses on study   validity variables. When using a prespecified subgroup analysis including only the 3 trials with   the higher rates of clinical pregnancy in the control group, there was a smaller   nonsignificant benefit of acupuncture (OR, 1.24; 95% CI, 0.86 ?1.77). "Current preliminary evidence suggests that acupuncture given with embryo   transfer improves rates of pregnancy and live birth among women undergoing in   vitro fertilization," the reviewers write. "Additional randomised trials are   needed to quantify findings further and investigate the relation between   baseline rate of pregnancy and the efficacy of adjuvant acupuncture." Limitations of the meta-analysis include heterogeneity of baseline rates   across trials, possible publication and "hypothesis" (orientation) biases, and   inclusion of 3 studies presented only as abstracts. "If acupuncture increased the likelihood of success of an individual cycle,   then the need for a subsequent cycle would be reduced, and overall costs would   be decreased," the reviewers conclude. "Even if such increases were small, and,   for example, 17 patients needed to be treated with acupuncture to bring about   one additional pregnancy (that is, the lowest range of our 95% confidence   interval), an acupuncture cointervention may still be cost effective,   considering the negligible costs of two to four sessions of acupuncture,   relative to the high costs of in vitro fertilisation." Two of the reviewers were funded by the National Center for Complementary and   Alternative Medicine of the US National Institutes of Health. The authors have   disclosed no relevant financial relationships. BMJ . Published online February 7, 2008 . Site Search In The News Traditional Chinese Medicine Improves Infertility Treatment Success Traditional Chinese medicine has long been used to ease pain and treat disease. Now researchers have found it can also boost fertility if used in combination with fertility treatments. Surprising Causes of Male Infertility a number of lifestyle choices, environmental factors and chance events can sabotage the sperm. Latest Posts Anovulation Cycles I always thought it would  take me a long time to get pregnant and that I would need invasive procedures  or medical assistance since I had not had a regular period in almost 2 years. Two Failed IVF Cycles, Blocked Fallopian Tube and Conceived Naturally My journey to pregnancy consisted of over two years of fertility treatments and a lot of heartbreak until I met Dr. Zhou. Conceived Naturally with Only One Fallopian Tube, Irregular Cycles and a Failed IVF Acupuncture brought the bliss and peace to our lives which has been a constant turmoil since 3 years. Natural Conceived at Late 30's I had a hard time getting pregnant when my husband and I started. We are both in our late 30’s and we thought we had everything planned. 40 Years Old, Elevated NK Cell Thin Uterine Lining & a Full Term Pregnancy My experience with Dr Zhou and acupuncture was amazing. At the beginning of 2006 we had been trying to conceive for a year. Naturally Conceived with Luteal Phase Defect In October, 2009, my husband and I had suffered an early miscarriage. I was 35   and my husband 39 - and "at our age," we knew we might have problems conceiving   again - and maintaining a pregnancy. PCOS, Naturally Conceived after Many Drug Cycle Failures I share with you my story and the way Dr. Zhou helped me realize my biggest dream: to be a mother. Getting Pregnant Naturally - IVF Poor Responder After a stillbirth at 36 weeks of pregnancy (conceived by IUI) and 6 attempted IUI/IVF cycles, my husband and I were feeling hopeless. I Got Pregnant Naturally When My FSH Level Over 80 About three years ago, my husband and I decided to have a second baby. 40 Years Old, a Full Term Pregnancy after a Miscarriage I was 39 when we decided to try a second time to have a child. My first pregnancy ended in a miscarriage, and recovery was difficult Fertile Land Fertility: Knowing Hope Have you ever thought about how many times you think the words 'I hope'? How Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM) Enhances Fertility TCM describes the female reproductive system as a network of energy systems. Each energy system has complementary organs and hormonal responses. Acupuncture, Fertility Research Delivers Healthy Results Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has been practiced for thousands of years. Amazingly, the first written gynecological records date back to the Shang dynasty (1500 BC- 1000 BC) Acupuncture: A Cure for Infertility? - Fox News New York - At 36, Lucy Appert has suffered through two miscarriages, a stillbirth at 8 1/2 months and, because of a rare pregnancy-related liver dysfunction © 2004 - 2011 All Rights R