
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 22 Apr 2012 08:42:42 GMT
Server: Apache
ETag: "e92f774c7812cf87ef2de904feb393a2"
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Last-Modified: Fri, 11 Jul 2008 10:32:46 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Smoking | Mind Matters Smoking | Mind Matters Home Farnham (Surrey) Clinic Alton (Hampshire) Clinic Guildford FAQs Credentials Contact About Hypnotherapy Confidence Depression Sports Hypnotherapy Insomnia & Anxiety Weight Control Stop Smoking Fears and Phobias Childbirth Useful links Book a Consultation Does it work? This is one of the first questions hypnotherapists get asked, and the answer is (fairly) straight forward. Hypnotherapy helps people to motivate and achieve their goals in a very special and exciting way. The key here, and no doubt you've heard it before, is that stopping smoking needs to be your goal. If it is, then hypnotherapy is extremely effective at helping you achieve that goal and with MMH your chances of success are extremely high. But don't send your partner to quit (if they don't want to), because you can't do the quitting for them! Read more about Mind Matters Hypnotherapy Stop Smoking Programme What is the success rate? For MMH, ensuring that you stay a non smoker is the most important thing. This starts before the session by ensuring you are well motivated to quit (we'll send you a bespoke Stop Smoking Self Hypnosis CD) and continues through the session including advice on how to reduce stress (the only excuse smokers use to start smoking again). Over the last 3 years, on only 3 occasions has anyone needed a top-up to succeed. This is testament to the high success rate of the MMH Stop Smoking Programme and those who choose to quit with MMH. Most people who book onto the Stop Smoking Programme are referred to MMH by someone who has already quit. Read more about Mind Matters Hypnotherapy Stop Smoking Programme Should I combine Hypnotherapy with NRT? If it works for you yes, but MMH wouldn't recommend it for a number of reasons: NRT IS STILL POISON and the sooner you stop ingesting it the better. Every time you use NRT, you remind yourself that you want a cigarette, instead of getting on with life as a happy and healthy non smoker. NRT is expensive. The MMH Stop Smoking Programme will negate the need to take NRT. Nicotine is not physically addictive, so why would you need to? Not convinced? Read John's story about NRT How little does it cost? Is £5,000 cheap to add five years of life? Is £10,000 cheap to add 20 years of life? How much would you value a limb not to be lost from reduced circulation and gangrene? What is it worth to you, for all the benefits you gain from stopping smoking forever? If you never smoked again, would that be worth the cost of a pack of cigarettes every day for the rest of your happier/healthier life? After stopping smoking, you'll save around £2,000 in the first year. Would the cost of six weeks cigarettes sound like it is a great deal? For this excellent programme, we think so too. Read