
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 21:31:38 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.4-2ubuntu5.23
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://lifeisgoodwithchocolate.myhealthychocolateblog.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Life Is Good With Chocolate Life Is Good With Chocolate Change your Chocolate, Change your Life! St Louis Children’s Heart Disease Risk February 9th, 2012  by Christine Melton A growing number of Missouri children are developing high cholesterol, high triglycerides, and type 2 diabetes which are all risk factors for heart disease . According to the American Heart Association, there is credible evidence that cholesterol buildup in arteries begins in childhood . A recent Australian study claims that lifestyle changes made before adulthood, such as healthy eating habits, exercise, and weight management are likely to reduce the risk for heart disease later in life . The three main risk factors for St Louis children in developing high cholesterol are heredity , diet , and obesity . Visit with your St Louis doctor to have your own cholesterol checked to make sure your kids aren’t at risk. When shopping at your St Louis grocery store, stock up on healthy snacks like nuts, dried fruit, and yogurt. Helping St Louis kids and St. Charles make healthy lifestyle choices now prepares them to have healthy lifestyles as adults. As a health and wellness business owner and St Louis children’s advocate , I would love to share more information about children’s nutrition and healthy snacking . Please call or email me today . Healthy Chocolate specialist Christine Melton 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net St Louis, Missouri  zip code 63043 XoBiotic    X-Power Squares Join Xocai today! I am Christine Melton, and I am a St Louis-based Xocai artisan chocolate distributor. I joined Xocai in March 2007. I sell the industry-leading XoBiotic and X-Power Squares online and in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , and Florissant. Our valued St Louis customers recommend X-Power Squares because X-Power Squares Eliminated my aches & pains and gives me the freedom to work from home.. Xocai is also a fantastic XoBiotic home-based business in the St Louis area. Missouri entrepreneurs can supplement their income by cashing in on a high-demand Missouri healthy artisan chocolate market. To learn more about Xocai, visit http://www.lifeisgoodwithchocolate.com. Call me at 314-560-5705 to own your own XoBiotic business in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , or Florissant. Posted in Child Health | No Comments » Westport  Home Offices: Small Is Beautiful February 7th, 2012  by Christine Melton Years ago, I remember hearing about an entrepreneur who ran a multi-million dollar construction company from her studio apartment, using a small closet as an office. Of course this was only the administrative headquarters, the heavy equipment was kept elsewhere. I was impressed by this thrifty home business owner who said she had no plans to rent space and increase her operating costs as her company grew: she loved her little closet office and made it work . My fellow X-Power Squares home based business owners enjoy the benefits of operating their own business from their St Louis home: unlimited income potential, flexibility, and being their own boss. Some new team members recruited from the corporate world are initially skeptical about being able to run their business from a small home or apartment. Today’s article is about working in a small home office . Think of yourself as an astronaut in a cockpit with all the controls at your fingertips. How is a cockpit organized? There are buttons and switches on every level, but all accessible. Get a desk that fits your space. Corner desks can free up space not ordinarily used. Office chairs with rollers let you easily access items within arm’s reach without having to stand up. Shelves, shelves, shelves! Use all that prime vertical real estate on your walls. Get a paper shredder and use it. A paper shredder takes up some room but frees up space previously populated by papers you don’t need anymore. For example, invoices or sales orders that have been entered electronically. Some super-organized X-Power Squares team members regular schedule paper-shredding into their weekly agenda. One drawback of home offices is the difficulty of holding meetings. It is hard to remain professional when inviting a client to your home office that doubles as a laundry room. You can solve this by holding large business meetings in rented St Louis conference rooms . Small meetings can be held over lunch or breakfast in business-friendly Westport  restaurants. (Check for internet access before scheduling.) Before you head out to your nearest Westport  Office Max to buy a rolling chair, desk, or shelf unit, take measurements of your space. This may save you a trip to return an item that doesn’t fit . I am Healthy Chocolate specialist Christine Melton. Working at home running my XoBiotic online business lets me work and play everyday. If you are stuck in the 9-5 lifestyle, let’s talk. My XoBiotic team is currently seeking serious Westport  entrepreneurs . -Christine Melton Healthy Chocolate specialist Christine Melton St Louis, Missouri 63043 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net XoBiotic X-Power Squares Join Xocai today! I am Christine Melton, and I am a St Louis-based Xocai artisan chocolate distributor. I joined Xocai in March 2007. I sell the industry-leading XoBiotic and X-Power Squares online and in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , and Florissant. Our valued St Louis customers recommend X-Power Squares because X-Power Squares Eliminated my aches & pains and gives me the freedom to work from home.. Xocai is also a fantastic XoBiotic home-based business in the St Louis area. Missouri entrepreneurs can supplement their income by cashing in on a high-demand Missouri healthy artisan chocolate market. To learn more about Xocai, visit http://www.lifeisgoodwithchocolate.com. Call me at 314-560-5705 to own your own XoBiotic business in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , or Florissant. Posted in Healthy Chocolate inSTL | No Comments » Probiotics For The Prevention Of Eczema In St Louis February 3rd, 2012  by Christine Melton If your St Louis kiddos scratch and claw at their skin because they suffer from children’s eczema you might consider including more probiotics in their diet. Probiotics are beneficial bacteria that promote the growth of friendly microflora in the intestines. Some probiotic powerhouses you can find in your favorite St Louis grocery store are yogurt, kefir, and kimchi. Probiotics support digestive health in a number of ways. They have been shown to prevent diarrhea, irritable bowel syndrome, and help reduce the symptoms of eczema. Safe and natural probiotics can be an effective weapon in your eczema arsenal. St Louis dermatologists and St Louis pediatricians also recommend washing your tot’s clothing with mild detergents , using humidifiers , and bathing them with mild soap and then letting their skin completely dry. My name is Christine Melton and I am a proud XoBiotic representative. I also campaign for children’s health in St Louis, St Louis, and the surrounding areas. If you would like more information about children’s health topics or my X-Power Squares business, contact me today! Christine Melton St Louis, Missouri 63043 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net Helping you feel better with great products. Join Xocai today! I am Christine Melton, and I am a St Louis-based Xocai artisan chocolate distributor. I joined Xocai in March 2007. I sell the industry-leading XoBiotic and X-Power Squares online and in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , and Florissant. Our valued St Louis customers recommend X-Power Squares because X-Power Squares Eliminated my aches & pains and gives me the freedom to work from home.. Xocai is also a fantastic XoBiotic home-based business in the St Louis area. Missouri entrepreneurs can supplement their income by cashing in on a high-demand Missouri healthy artisan chocolate market. To learn more about Xocai, visit http://www.lifeisgoodwithchocolate.com. Call me at 314-560-5705 to own your own XoBiotic business in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , or Florissant. Posted in Child Health | No Comments » Increase Profits By Cutting Costs January 31st, 2012  by Christine Melton An online or home based St Louis business generally has low overhead , but there are still ways to cut costs even further. As all St Louis entrepreneurs know, decreasing expenses increases profits even if sales are unchanged. Shipping can often take a larger share of the budget than buying or manufacturing the actual product. Sometimes the most competitive St Louis home business owner is the one who has carefully researched shipping processes and found the most economical company and plan. Have you ever thought about teaming up with other small business owners in the St. Charles, Westport , and St Louis areas? Buying office, marketing, and packaging supplies in large quantities can save a lot of money. You are probably already using online social networks to market your St Louis X-Power Squares business. You can also use social networks to learn from other St Louis home business owners. Fellow entrepreneurs in your industry have valuable knowledge from which you can benefit. Learn from experience–other people’s! Speaking of learning from experience, have you backed up your business computer hard drive lately? Suffering a data loss can be super-expensive. Prevent a major financial hit by vigilantly backing-up. If you get into a money-saving mindset, you will find all sorts of ways to cut the overhead for your  St Louis home based business. If you are looking for a supplement income opportunity in St Louis , contact me today. I would love to tell you how the X-Power Squares home based business can earn you extra cash every single month. Christine Melton X-Power Squares home based business owner since March 2007 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net Join Xocai today! I am Christine Melton, and I am a St Louis-based Xocai artisan chocolate distributor. I joined Xocai in March 2007. I sell the industry-leading XoBiotic and X-Power Squares online and in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , and Florissant. Our valued St Louis customers recommend X-Power Squares because X-Power Squares Eliminated my aches & pains and gives me the freedom to work from home.. Xocai is also a fantastic XoBiotic home-based business in the St Louis area. Missouri entrepreneurs can supplement their income by cashing in on a high-demand Missouri healthy artisan chocolate market. To learn more about Xocai, visit http://www.lifeisgoodwithchocolate.com. Call me at 314-560-5705 to own your own XoBiotic business in St Louis, St. Charles, Westport , or Florissant. Posted in Healthy Chocolate inSTL | No Comments » Plastic Alert For Florissant Parents January 26th, 2012  by Christine Melton Hello new Florissant parents. Today’s Healthy Florissant Children’s blog focuses on BPA. Bisphenol A (BPA), the dangerous compound used in plastics manufacturing can now be detected everywhere in our environment: in our food, clothing, homes, offices, soil, water: you name it. ‘Since at least 1936 it has been known that BPA mimics estrogens, binding to the same receptors throughout the human body as natural female hormones.’ 1 What does this mean for Florissant kids? Numerous scientific studies suggest an increased risk of cancer and neurological problems. Florissant infants are the most susceptible to even minute amounts of BPAs. Unfortunately, most infant formula containers and plastic bottles contain BPAs and other toxins. What can Florissant parents do to reduce the risk of these chemicals finding their way into their child’s formula or baby food? 1) Do not heat plastic containers in the microwave. 2) Do not wash plastic containers in hot water. 3) Consider using glass bottles and containers. These are simple steps that any Florissant parent or day-care provider can take. Toss your plastic bottles today! For more information about children’s health issues, call me at 314-560-5705. 1 David Biello, “Plastic (Not) Fantastic: Food Containers Leach a Potentially Harmful Chemical,” Scientific American, Feb. 19, 2008, www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=plastic-not-fantastic-with-bisphenol-a, accessed on May 16, 2011 Posted in Child Health | No Comments » St Louis Home Business: Earn Cash In Your Spare Time January 25th, 2012  by Christine Melton You can earn extra cash in your spare time, even if you have very little spare time . I am Christine Melton. I started my X-Power Squares business in March, 2007. I work in the communities of St. Charles, Westport , and Florissant selling X-Power Squares. A quality product that provides value for St Louis people is the key to a successful home business. If you want to supplement your income in St Louis, I recommend X-Power Squares. Whether you are a 9-to-5er, St Louis shift worker, or independent St. Charles contractor, the X-Power Squares business works with your busy life. Running my St Louis home business is not stressful. Processing X-Power Squares orders is actually a nice change from my day job. If you would like more information about the St Louis X-Power Squares direct selling opportunity , let’s get together and discuss it. You can email me at lifezgd@att.net or call me at 314-560-5705. Thanks for visiting my St Louis home based business blog. If you want to join my team , call me right away! Christine Melton Healthy Chocolate specialist Christine Melton 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net XoBiotic X-Power Squares Posted in Healthy Chocolate inSTL | No Comments » Westport  Entrepreneurs: If You Shop Online, You Can Sell Online! January 20th, 2012  by Christine Melton Today article is for Westport  entrepreneurs who want to supplement their income with their own part time business . A home based business can be operated in just a few hours a week. A X-Power Squares online business works great as a second job. You can set up an online X-Power Squares in less than an hour. I’ll show you how. Your X-Power Squares internet store is open 24/7/365. It works days, swings, and graveyards. If you can shop online, you can sell online! With an internet store as a second job, you can check your X-Power Squares orders in the morning, pack them up, and drop them at the post office on the way to work. For more information about X-Power Squares, contact me today at 314-560-5705 or lifezgd@att.net. I would love to have you join my Westport  sales team. I am X-Power Squares entrepreneur Christine Melton. Christine Melton St Louis, Missouri zip code 63043 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net X-Power Squares Posted in Home Business | No Comments » Organic Best For St Louis Kids January 17th, 2012  by Christine Melton Food labels can be confusing for St Louis parents wanting to buy the most nutritious food possible for their families. The word ‘natural’ can convey wholesomeness–but that’s not always the case. Look for more specific food labels like ‘organic’ which means, in fruits and vegetables, that the food is grown without pesticides. Some evidence suggests that organic fruits and vegetables contain higher amounts of vitamin C and other nutrients than non-organic. The organic label on poultry, meat, and dairy means that no antibiotics, hormones, or pesticides are given to the animals, and the livestock are given only organic feed. ‘Organic’ livestock also must have access to the outdoors, and disease is prevented through natural methods. ‘Natural’ isn’t a term regulated by the FDA, so products with this label may still contain additives. Instead, look for the USDA organic badge, a guarantee that there is no high fructose corn syrup, partially hydrogenated oil, genetically modified ingredients, or artificial colors, flavors, or sweeteners. St Louis children and infants are the most vulnerable to hormone and pesticide exposure due to their less-developed immune systems and their still-developing brains and bodies. St Louis parents who provide organic food support their child’s health now and in the future. For more information on children’s nutrition and healthy supplements, call me to learn about X-Power Squares today! Christine Melton http://www.lifeisgoodwithchocolate.com 314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net Posted in Child Health | No Comments » Make The Most Out Of Story Time In St Louis January 13th, 2012  by Christine Melton St Louis parents know that reading with children is essential to their academic success and development, but not all storybook sessions are as productive as others in building literacy skills. Florissant, Westport , and St. Charles parents don’t need to worry, because a few simple guidelines can help your kids get the most from story time. Instead of zooming through one picture book after another, take time to pause and allow your child to process the story. Ask questions like, ‘What do you think will happen next?’ or ‘How did that make [the main character] feel?’ Enjoy the artwork and see what your child can infer from the pictures. Beginning readers can point to each word as you read together. This will help them recognize that letters make up words and words make up sentences and they will get used to punctuation conventions. St Louis parents may have to work to curb their boredom since kids love repetition and may ask for the same book over and over again. This is normal and healthy for younger kids, but if you have any concerns about their development, you should consult your St Louis pediatrician. As kids get older you can ask more probing questions such as, ‘What was the most interesting part of the book?’ or ‘What is the setting of the story?’ There are also great opportunities for discussions about problems and solutions as well as themes and morals in almost all stories. I’m Christine Melton and children’s health and development is very important to me. I am the owner of a St Louis home business that sells X-Power Squares. If you are interested in learning more, visit my website at http://www.lifeisgoodwithchocolate.com or give me a call at 314-560-5705. Posted in Child Health | No Comments » Hidden Sugar In St. Charles Kid’s Snacks January 10th, 2012  by Christine Melton Excessive sugar is a serious health threat for St. Charles children. Do you know how much sugar your St Louis son or daughter is really consuming? I am children’s nutrition advocate Christine Melton. Here are some popular St Louis kid’s snacks with more sugar than I realized: Yogurt covered raisins Fruit Roll-ups, Gushers, and Fruit By The Foot Quaker Rice Cakes Yoplait yogurt Gogurt Juice drinks: Capri Sun, Minute Maid Flavored milk The next time you and your kids are shopping for snacks at your St. Charles grocery store, St Louis convenience store,  or Westport  ball park snack bar, read the labels. Sugar content varies among brands. Limiting the amount of sugar in your St. Charles child’s diet is an important step toward better lifelong eating and oral health. To hear about another great way to improve your child’s nutrition in Missouri, call me today! Christine Melton   314-560-5705 lifezgd@att.net Posted in Child Health | No Comments » « Older Entries Search for: Pages About Us Contact Us Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 Categories Child Health (30) Healthy Chocolate inSTL (64) Home Business (7) Personal (1) Blogroll About Healthy Chocolate Good News About Chocolate Healthy Chocolate Research Meta Log in Life Is Good With Chocolate is prou