Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://familyfocusblog.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.3
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Fight the Common Cold  : Make Your Own Organic Nanny Cough Syrup | Family Blog | Family Focus Blog Comments Entries Home Contact Be Featured Discounts Eco-Friendly Tips Family Activities Food Green Products Parent Talk Travel Browse: Home / Featured , mom talk / Fight the Common Cold  : Make Your Own Organic Nanny Cough Syrup Fight the Common Cold  : Make Your Own Organic Nanny Cough Syrup One of the most common childhood ailments is the common cold—I don’t know any child who gets through childhood without catching the occasional cold virus. However, you don’t have to treat a cold with harsh cough syrups, decongestants, and antihistamines . There are better ways to relieve the symptoms of a child’s cold. Natural Remedies to Fight the Common Cold: For stuffy noses, try this natural remedy. Fill a bowl with steaming water. Add 4 drops tea tree oil and 4 drops eucalyptus essential oil (peppermint essential oil also works well). Stay with your child and have her lean over the bowl, but not too close that she feels uncomfortable. Drape a towel over her head and the bowl. Sit with and rub her back for ten minutes. The steam will help loosen congestion. For coughs , this homemade cough syrup is easy to make and helps even the most stubborn little coughs. It also helps clear out congestion. This recipe is a gentle and effective alternative to over-priced commercial cough syrups, and it contains no artificial ingredients. (Note: This recipe uses honey. Honey is not technically vegan, but because it has natural cough suppressant properties, I prefer it as a medicine to pharmaceutical cough syrups, which contain drugs and often contain alcohol. If you can buy honey from a small scale local beekeeper, that is ideal. If you are opposed to honey, use maple syrup instead. The sweet syrup itself can help relieve coughs, even if it doesn’t have all the properties of honey.) Organic Nanny Homemade Natural Cough Syrup Recipe: (for children over 1 year) 2 cups of purified water 1 tablespoon powdered slippery elm (find it in natural health food stores, Whole Foods, or through www.mountainroseherbs.com) 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger ¼ cup raw honey Juice from 1 organic lemon Combine water and herbs in a saucepan. Heat on low until the liquid comes to a boil. Continue to boil until the liquid is reduced by half. Remove from the heat and stir in the honey and lemon juice. Store in a clean glass bottle in the refrigerator. Give your child 2 tablespoons up to four times per day. Guest post by Barbara Rodriguez, the organic celebrity nanny.  Her new book, The Organic Nanny’s Guide to Raising Healthy Kids: Reclaim a Natural Diet and Lifestyle for Your Child , is going to be released soon.  You can find out more great organic parenting tips and sign up for her newsletter on the website- The Organic Nanny. Scarlet January 2, 2012 Featured , mom talk homemade natural cough syrup recipe , natural remedies for the common cold 3 Comments Things To Remember For The New Year From The Dali Lama Daily Deals for Moms- Big Savings Locally 3 Responses to “Fight the Common Cold  : Make Your Own Organic Nanny Cough Syrup” 1 natural cough suppressant says: March 4, 2012 at 12:36 am obviously like your web site but you have to take a look at the spelling on quite a few of your posts. A number of them are rife with spelling problems and I find it very bothersome to tell the truth however I will definitely come back again. natural cough suppressant recently posted.. 1 reply 2 Akhira says: April 13, 2012 at 3:32 am This recipe is very interesting. I would like to do it at home. And share to my relatives about this Organic Nanny Homemade Natural Cough Syrup Recipe. Akhira recently posted.. tea tree oil acne treatment reply 3 Rainieha says: April 19, 2012 at 2:55 am My mom usually do this, but I don’t know the procedures of it. I’ll tell my mom to teach me how to do this stuff. Rainieha recently posted.. the truth about hpv vaccines reply Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Stay In The Loop Scarlet Paolicchi on Twitter Counter.com Follow along on Facebook, RSS Feed, Twitter or enter your email below to receive new content in your inbox Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner About This Blog This family blog is written by a stay at home mom blogger from Nashville who reports on parenting, family fun, going green, family food, family travel and giveaways.  I believe that every family unit is important and that we hold the future in our hands. Current GIVEAWAYS Madhava Gift Basket GIVEAWAY 4/24 $150 Walmart Gift Card GIVEAWAY 4/25 Toydozer GIVEAWAY 4/26 Organic Supplements GIVEAWAY 4/26 Ahnu Shoes GIVEAWAY 4/30 Fit Moms For Life GIVEAWAY 5/1 Frozen Planet DVD GIVEAWAY 5/2 $25 Amazon Gift Card GIVEAWAY 5/3 Organic Spa Robe GIVEAWAY 5/7 GIVEAWAY Linky Other Useful Links Entrepreneur, Small Biz, WAHM Linky Baby Shower Decorations Sponsors Sylvan Learning- Tutoring Services Reusable Snack and Sandwich bags Organic Beauty Products Featured On: My Business Directory & Social Media Services Disclosure Policy Affiliate Savings Copyright © 2012 Family Blog | Family F