<a href="http://www.smart-strength-training.com" target="_blank">Smart Strength Training</a> Site Navigation Basics Getting Started Basic Training Nutrition Supplements Stretching Exercise Leg Workouts Arm Workouts Chest Workouts Upper Back Lower Back Ab Workouts Shoulders Cardio Workouts Site Help Blog/Updates Search Site Site Map [ ? ] Subscribe! Most Recent Feeds Aug 31, 2011 Ab Workouts for Baseball and Softball Ab Workouts should be the backbone of all your baseball and softball training. Without a strong midsection, it's nearly impossible to compete. Permalink -- click for full blog post "Ab Workouts for Baseball and Softball" Aug 29, 2011 Number of Sets in the PUSH phase Is the number of sets in the PUSH phase correct? Only at the top of the workout it states  3) Push - heavier weight, fewer reps, more sets!   yet below Permalink -- click for full blog post "Number of Sets in the PUSH phase" Aug 26, 2011 The Biceps Curl on a Stability Ball. Not Easy! The Biceps curl is a Classic. Add in a stability ball and you've got a biceps blaster! Permalink -- click for full blog post "The Biceps Curl on a Stability Ball. Not Easy!" Aug 25, 2011 Cable Curl Variations can Add Complexity to your Workout The Cable curl is a classic biceps exercise - make sure you're doing them correctly and efficiently for maximal results! Permalink -- click for full blog post "Cable Curl Variations can Add Complexity to your Workout" Aug 25, 2011 Cable Crossover The cable crossover should be a staple in your chest workout regimen! Permalink -- click for full blog post "Cable Crossover" Aug 25, 2011 Ab Workouts - Get That Washboard Look! Want those six pack abs? Doing ab workouts is a key component, but not the defining line. Learn the inner workings of the abdominal muscles and use it to your advantage. Permalink -- click for full blog post "Ab Workouts - Get That Washboard Look!" Aug 25, 2011 Upper Back Exercises: The Bow and Arrow Pull Upper back exercises are effectively performed with resistance bands. Try the bow and arrow pull! Permalink -- click for full blog post "Upper Back Exercises: The Bow and Arrow Pull" Aug 24, 2011 Rowing Exercises with Resistance Tubes will Accelerate your Results! Rowing exercises with a resistance tube is a fantastic addition to any upper back exercise regimen! Permalink -- click for full blog post "Rowing Exercises with Resistance Tubes will Accelerate your Results!" Aug 23, 2011 A Customizable Daily Diet Plan Geared Towards Your Goal Create a custom daily diet plan from this useful chart - where does your lifestyle and bodytype fit in? Permalink -- click for full blog post "A Customizable Daily Diet Plan Geared Towards Your Goal" Aug 23, 2011 Eating Healthy is Easy - Try It! Your Strength Training Program Depends On It... Learn how eating healthy is the right way to lose weight, gain muscle and feel great! Permalink -- click for full blog post "Eating Healthy is Easy - Try It! Your Strength Training Program Depends On It..." [ ? ] Subscribe! Contribute your own article! General Nutrition Nutrition Guide What is Nutrition? Muscle Building Supplements Nutrients in Food How to Eat Healthy Daily Diet Plan Drinking Water! Best Sources of Water Antioxidants What are Antioxidants? Antioxidant Supplements What is Glutathione? Carbohydrate Articles What are Carbohydrates? Carbohydrate Metabolism Low Carb Diets Benefits of Fiber Fat Articles About Dietary Fat Saturated vs. Unsaturated Fat Calories Protein Articles Protein Supplements, Part 1 Protein Supplements, Part 2 How Much Protein Per Day? Protein to Build Muscle, Part 1 Protein to Build Muscle, Part 2 Protein to Lose Weight High Protein Diet Protein Shakes Casein Protein What exactly is protein, anyway? Creatine Other Muscle Building Supplements Vitamins and Minerals About Vitamin Supplements Water Soluble Vitamins Thiamine (B1) / Riboflavin (B2) Niacin (B3) / Pantothenate (B5) Pyridoxine (B6) / Cobalamin (B12) Vitamin C / Biotin Folic Acid Fat Soluble Vitamins Vitamin A / Vitamin D Vitamin E / Vitamin K Essential Minerals Iron / Calcium Magnesium More Coming Soon! Contribute your own article! HOME About Ryan Contact Privacy Copyright Disclaimer Return To Top Cop