<http://wp.me/p11oYS-s>; rel=shortlink
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 10:28:27 GMT
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Expires: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 11:28:27 GMT
Pragma: public
Cache-Control: max-age=3600, public, must-revalidate, proxy-revalidate
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Urinary Tract Infections – Causes and Prevention | Women's Health Blog - Women's Magazine News Feed Comments Beauty Dieting Love Parenting Pregnancy Relationships Skin Problems Wellness Women's Health Browse > Home / Women's Health / Urinary Tract Infections – Causes and Prevention Urinary Tract Infections – Causes and Prevention Bookmark on - January 24, 2008 Urinary tract infections become deadly infections if they’re treated properly. You can however take some easy steps each day to prevent chronic UTI’s from forever infecting you. Firstly it is necessary to understand the causes behind your bladder infections, and the symptoms that accompany them. What causes a bladder infection? Quite frequently urinary tract infections get called bladder infections. Your urinary tract is constructed of three main parts which begin at your kidneys, which are connected to your bladder, and your bladder is connected to your urethra where urine exits your body. This is why urinary tract infections and bladder infections are often used for the same infection. Bacteria ( E coli ) multiplying inside your urinary tract cause all urinary tract infections. The bacteria is usually present near your vagina and vulva and then the bacteria gets pushed into your urethra. The most common way this happens is by wiping from back to front after going the bathroom. Other causes of UTI’s are friction during intercourse, the rubbing of too tight clothing, over use of antibiotics and a suppressed immune system. Prevention for Urinary Tract Infections The best method of preventing a bladder infection is to change the way you wipe yourself after going to the bathroom. If you already wipe the correct way then your infection has another cause. Because E. coli causes approximately 80% of UTI’s, it’s very important to remember to wipe the correct way every time you go to the bathroom so the pushing of the E coli into your urethra is eliminated. It is also important that you keep your vaginal area as clean and moisture free (bacteria love warm moist places) as possible. Drinking six to eight glasses of water a day will also prove helpful in keeping your urination regular enough to empty your bladder often. The bacteria will have a harder time attaching itself to your urinary tract if you regularly have urine flushing it through.. Cranberries make your urine very acidic, and this makes them an excellent prevention for bladder infections. This creates the environment you want for keeping your urinary tract E coli free. Cranberry juice and concentrated cranberry pills are the two best ways to use cranberries as a UTI prevention. Other useful information on web: 1. Home Remedies for Urinary Tract Infection Please share your comments below: Unique Breast Cosmetics from St.Botanica Filed Under Women's Health Tags: Urinary Tract Infections , urinary tract infections causes , urinary tract infections prevention Random Posts Recent Articles Diet for help in Knee pains and inflammation Menopause and sleep related problems Anemia, a Common Condition in Women Different Kinds Of Allergies And Their Symptoms Good Health and Related Issues of Women Comments Got something to say? Join the conversation and leave a comment below. and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar ! You must be logged in to post a comment. What's More today? How foot spa detoxes the body and reduces stress Stress is the buzzword that drives us haywire. Stress awaits us at every juncture of life. It is there... Diet for help in Knee pains and inflammation While we age we are bound to develop some problem with our limbs. It is the knees that get affected... Green tea – your way to a slimmer waist We all long for that slim waist which has been a thing of the past since our teens. Indeed lots of exercising... Skin Problems and how to solve them As we age we face many types of skin problems. The skin starts aging fast and you start facing a lot... Natural Health Supplements – are they of any use? If you are looking to buy health supplements you should go for those that are natural and now you can... Menopause and sleep related problems Menopause is that phase in a woman’s body when it stops releasing the eggs monthly and also stops the... How to Keep Your Long Distance Relationship Alive Long distance relationships are tough to carry on, but it has its sweet memories and lingering expectations... How Music can Help You Fight Stress Music is one of the supreme ways to unwind and deal with stress. Listening to soft music eventually calms... Control Plaque and Maintain Oral Hygiene Oral hygiene is an absolute must. Often, improper oral hygiene can lead to certain ailments like stomach... How to Get that Perfect Smile Smile is the best accessory that one can flaunt. It has been seen that a sweet smile is enough to break... Know All About Purifying Water Water is essential for living. We simply cannot live without drinking water. However, if water is not... How to Have a Beautiful Body According to Margaret Hangerford, “beauty is in the eyes of the beholder” !! But in order to enhance... Anemia, a Common Condition in Women Anemia, also spelled as “anaemia” is an ancient Greek term meaning “lack of blood”. It occurs... Amnesia, Memory Loss Problems Amnesia is derived from a Greek word and is a condition of the memory which leads to memory loss. Amnesia... Alzeimers, the Most Common Dementia Alzheimer’s Disease (AD), also known as Alzheimer disease, Senile Dementia of the Alzheimer Type (SDAT)... What's New How to keep your weight low through water intake If you can maintain a certain weight within the desired limits, you tend to look younger by six years.... The Juice That Drops Blood Pressure Grape juice is one of the oldest ways to drop blood pressure apart from exercising, walking or cutting... Healthy Eats If you ask me to choose between tea and coffee I would definitely choose tea as a health drink. Tea contains... Free Consultation Diet for help in Knee pains and inflammation While we age we are bound to develop some problem with our limbs. It is the knees that get affected... Menopause and sleep related problems Menopause is that phase in a woman’s body when it stops releasing the eggs monthly and also stops the... Anemia, a Common Condition in Women Anemia, also spelled as “anaemia” is an ancient Greek term meaning “lack of blood”. It occurs... Skin care regimen at home You look what you eat and that also depends on how healthy you are. A facial will usually make you look... Skin Problems and how to solve them As we age we face many types of skin problems. The skin starts aging fast and you start facing a lot... How to Have a Beautiful Body According to Margaret Hangerford, “beauty is in the eyes of the beholder” !! But in order to enhance... How to Keep Your Long Distance Relationship Alive Long distance relationships are tough to carry on, but it has its sweet memories and lingering expectations... Tips to Help Long Distance Relationship Survive Love is one the most sacred and precious feelings on earth. Very few people are lucky enough to get love... Long Distance Relationship Well it may sound a bit awkward but in this mobile world today there is no dearth of long distance lovers.... How to Get that Perfect Smile Smile is the best accessory that one can flaunt. It has been seen that a sweet smile is enough to break... The Kitchen Beauty The world is facing the worst meltdown in the recent history and as usual we have all cut down the cost... Moisture–Secret Behind Healthy Hair Moisture is the key element for healthy hair. Most people, who complain that their hair is lifeless and... Healthy Eats If you ask me to choose between tea and coffee I would definitely choose tea as a health drink. Tea contains... Anorexia Nervosa: Habituated to be THIN Worldwide the concern for obesity is rising with an increase in the ways to fight it. Paradoxically however,... Recipes and Their Influence On Us Recipes and their contents have changed much from old days to the modern age. A recipe can be described... How to Potty-Train Your Kid Potty-training your child signals the end of diaper-days and nappy-nights. But this milestone varies... The Life of a Single Parent Single parenting is not the easiest thing in the world and the situation is made worst by the fact that... Prevent Food Poisoning In Babies Babies are particularly susceptible to food poisoning as their immunity system are not very well developed... Healthy Eating habits During Pregnancy During pregnancy a mother has to take care of the two lives, one is for herself and the other is for... How to Retain Conjugal Love Even After Pregnancy Pregnancy and child birth is one of the happiest moments in a woman’s life and we all want a happy... Is Cigarette Smoking Harmful for Pregnant Women? Cigarette smoking is very harmful for a pregnant woman. The smoke she inhales is also taken by the baby... How to keep your weight low through water intake If you can maintain a certain weight within the desired limits, you tend to look younger by six years.... The Juice That Drops Blood Pressure Grape juice is one of the oldest ways to drop blood pressure apart from exercising, walking or cutting... How colon bacteria can be balanced Your stomach is a place where there is constant war going on between the good and the bad bacteria.... Copyright © 2007-08 Women’s Health Blog –