Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Asthma Solution Guide - Asthma Treatment - Nebulizers & Asthma Accessories - AchooAllergy.com 1-800-339-7123 LIVE CHAT MY ACCOUNT HELP LOG IN CART (0) ALL PRODUCTS Allergy Bedding Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Air Quality Control Air Purifiers Dehumidifiers Humidifiers Portable ACs Home Care Cleaning Products Eco Products Furnace Filters Pet Allergy Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Personal Care Asthma Treatment Child Allergy Food Allergy Masks Nasal Irrigation Personal Care Sinus Care AIR PURIFIERS By Brand 3M Filtrete Airgle Alen AllerAir Amaircare Austin Air Blueair Germ Guardian AP Honeywell Hunter IQAir NQ Whirlpool By Need Allergies & Asthma MCS & Gas Pet Dander & Odor Small / Portable UV / Pathogen Air Purifier Filters ALLERGY BEDDING By Brand Allergy Armor Coyuchi Moonlight Slumber Mulberry West Ogallala PrimaLoft Pure-Rest Royal-Pedic Snoozer Vellux By Need Blankets Comforters Duvet Covers Mattresses Mattress Covers Mattress Pads Mattress Protectors Pillows Pillow Covers VACUUM CLEANERS By Brand Dyson Electrolux FilterStream Miele SEBO By Need Canister Vacuums Handheld & Cordless Stick Vacuums Upright Vacuums Vacuum Attachments DEHUMIDIFIERS By Brand Alen Aprilaire Danby Dri-Eaz Ebac Eva-Dry Soleus By Need Basement Dehumidifiers Crawlspace Dehumidifiers Portable Dehumidifiers Restoration Dehumidifiers HUMIDIFIERS By Brand Air-O-Swiss Enviracaire Germ Guardian Swizz Fred Vornado By Type Cool Mist Humidifiers Small Humidifiers Ultrasonic Humidifiers Warm Mist Humidifiers DUST MITES By Type Air Purifiers Box Spring Covers Carpet Cleaning Dehumidifiers Dust Cloths & Mops Dust Mite Bedding Laundry Mattress Covers Pillow Covers Upholstery Products Vacuum Cleaners STEAM CLEANERS By Brand Gruene Steam Mop Ladybug Reliable Vapamore By Type Handheld Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Vapor Steam Cleaners Allergy Relief Air Purifiers Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Vacuum Cleaners Dehumidifiers Steam Cleaners Portable Air Conditioners Dust Mite Allergy Humidifiers Furnace Filters Nasal Irrigation Asthma Treatment Mattresses Masks Child Allergy Food Allergy Personal Care Pet Allergy Cleaning Products Eco Products Community More Information What's New Popular Products Top 5 HEPA Air Purifiers Learning Center Request a Catalog Clearance Coupons & Sales Gift Certificates Allergist Referrals Solution Guides Dust Mites Mold Sinus Seasonal Allergy Pet Allergy Asthma MCS Food Allergy AchooAllergy.com » Asthma Solution Guide Asthma Solution Guide PARI Vios Nebulizer Go Nebulizer Pediatric Nebulizer AeroChamber Max Vortex Holding Chamber Peak Flow Meter Allergy Armor Bedding Austin Air Purifiers Cold Weather Mask Affecting up to one in four urban children and causing approximately 21 
						million missed school days per year, asthma is the most prevalent chronic disease among children. There is no cure, but asthma can 
						be controlled with asthma education, asthma medication, environmental trigger 
						avoidance, and peak flow monitoring. Common asthma triggers 
						include dust mites , pet 
						dander , mold , and pollen . Asthma Nebulizers PARI Vios Nebulizer $89.99 Go Nebulizer $418.00 PARI Trek S Nebulizer $69.99 PARI Vios Pediatric Nebulizer $99.99 MedQuip Pediatric Nebulizer $55.00 Asthma Holding Chambers AeroChamber Max $34.99 OptiChamber $19.99 PARI Vortex Holding Chamber $28.99 - $32.99 Asthma Product Accessories Ducky Mask for PARI Vortex $8.99 Bubbles Mask $4.50 Peak Flow Meter $19.99 Environmental Control Products for Asthma Sufferers Allergy Armor Bedding Austin Air Baby's Breath $394.99 Cold Weather Mask $25.99 Helpful Information for Asthma Sufferers Asthma FAQ Asthma Statistics Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide Allergy Bedding Buying Guide Compare Allergy Bedding Air Purifier Buying Guide Compare Air Purifiers What is Asthma? Asthma is a disease of the lungs that causes the airways narrow and tighten, often in response to a trigger such as exposure to an allergen, exercise, or 
						emotional stress. As with allergies, an over-sensitive immune response leads asthma symptoms, with the main symptom being difficulty breathing. All asthma 
						sufferers have chronic inflammation and excessive airway sensitivity to various triggers. The prevalence of asthma in our society is rapidly 
						increasing. Asthma affects up to one in four urban children. Asthma is a form of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) since it obstructs the airways. Chronic bronchitis and emphysema are other forms 
						of COPD. There is no cure for asthma, but it can be controlled with proper treatment including medication and avoidance of triggers. What Causes Asthma? Scientists do not know exactly what causes asthma. Most likely, several factors contribute the development of the disease. Some people have a genetic 
						predisposition to developing asthma. If one parent has asthma, each child has a 1 in 3 chance of developing asthma. If both parents have asthma, chances 
						rise to 7 in 10. Researchers are still looking for the genes involved. People who have hay fever (allergic rhinitis) or eczema are also at higher risk for 
						developing asthma. The environment plays a role in the development of asthma, too. Asthma attacks are reactions to triggers like environmental irritants or allergens. Asthma 
						prevalence is increasing in the United States and many other parts of the world, perhaps because people are spending more time indoors, breathing in more 
						indoor allergens. The hygiene hypothesis (applicable to the rise in prevalence of both allergies and asthma) posits that these diseases are increasing 
						because people in modern societies grow up with less exposure to infectious agents, which makes their immune systems more sensitive to normally harmless 
						substances. Furthermore, modern air is much more polluted than the air our ancestors breathed. Some evidence also suggests a link between asthma 
						and obesity. Asthma Triggers Common asthma triggers include: tobacco or wood smoke polluted air allergens like mold, dust, & animal dander respiratory infections cold weather emotional stress physical exercise stomach acid reflux (GERD) sulfites (additives in some foods and wines) menstruation (in some, not all, women) Asthma Prevalence Asthma affects more than 20 million adults in the United States. Over 9 million U.S. children have been diagnosed with asthma, and it's the most prevalent 
						chronic condition among children. The prevalence of asthma increased 75% from 1980-1994. Asthma prevalence is 39% higher in African Americans. Asthma is a 
						major cause of missed work and school days. Asthma Symptoms Asthma symptoms include coughing, wheezing, chest tightness, difficulty breathing, and difficulty speaking. Asthma Attacks An asthma attack is much like an allergic reaction, and so asthma is sometimes referred to as reactive airway disease. When immune cells mistake an asthma trigger for an invader, a series of reactions produce the 
						mucus and bronchospasms characteristic of an asthma attack. Bronchioles (airways) swell, and the muscles tighten, making it harder to breathe. Asthma Treatment You should not take cough medicine to treat asthma; it will not help and may cause side effects. Do not take non-prescription medicines or natural or 
						herbal remedies without first consulting your physician; some of these remedies may interfere with your medicines. Take your medication exactly as 
						directed. If your medication is not working, do not take more than you have been prescribed, as overuse can be dangerous. Successful asthma treatment revolves around taking asthma medication as directed and avoiding environmental asthma triggers. Asthma Medications Some asthma medications are for long-term relief, while others are for quick relief. Long-term asthma medications are normally taken every day and include corticosteroids (usually inhaled) to reduce swelling and mucus 
						production. Corticosteroids are the most effective medicine for the treatment of asthma. However, inhaled corticosteroids may affect the growth of some 
						children and increase the risk of bruising. Please note: When using corticosteroids in a metered dose inhaler, it is very important to use a spacer, or 
						holding chamber, and gargle with water afterward. Spit out the water to 
						reduce the amount of the drug that's accidentally swallowed. If you don't use a holding chamber, you increase the risk of side effects like mouth and 
						throat irritation and oral thrush (oral yeast infection). Examples of inhaled corticosteroids include Flovent, Pulmicort, Azmacort, Aerobid, and 
						Qvar. Advair is an inhaler that combines a corticosteroid with a long-acting beta-agonist. Long-acting beta-agonists are bronchodilators that help relax the muscles of the airways. In 2005, the FDA issued a public health advisory for Advair 
						Diskus, Foradil Aerolizer, and Serevent Diskus, warning that these medications may increase the risk of severe asthma episodes and possibly death from an 
						asthma attack. Long-acting beta-agonists should never be used for quick relief. Leukotriene modifiers come in tablet form and serve as an alternative or supplement to corticosteroids. They are anti-inflammatory in nature, and 
						examples include Singulair, Accolate, and Zyflo. Theophylline, another bronchodilator, helps prevent nighttime symptoms and may cause side effects like nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, acid 
						reflux, confusion, irregular heartbeat, and nervousness. Theophylline prescriptions are less common now than in the past. Nedocromil and cromolyn have anti-inflammatory effects and may be used to treat mild asthma. Cromolyn is available for use in a nebulizer and therefore 
						often used in treating young children. Quick relief asthma medications, also known as rescue medications, provide relief of asthma attack symptoms and include short-acting 
						beta-agonists, which work as bronchodilators and relax the muslces around the bronchial tubes (airways). Albuterol is the most common short-acting 
						beta-agonist and is the active ingredient in Airet, Proventil, and Ventolin. Levalbuterol is a new, purer form of albuterol available as Xopenex. Other 
						short-acting beta-agonists include Tornalate, Maxair, and Brethaire. Ipratropium bromide, an anticholinergic and also a bronchodilator, is used by people who cannot tolerate short-acting beta-agonists; it's also used 
						among those whose asthma is triggered by beta-blocker heart medication. Atrovent is an example of ipratropium bromide. Systemic steroids (oral or intravenous) take longer to act but help prevent additional attacks. Examples include prednisone as Deltasone and 
						Orasone, Prelone, Pediapred, and Medrol. Long-term use of systemic corticosteroids could cause serious side effects like cataracts, osteoporosis, muscle 
						weakness, decreased immune function, and high blood pressure. Asthma medications are either taken orally or inhaled using a metered dose inhaler (MDI), dry powder inhaler (DPI), or nebulizer. Xolair, a new medication for allergy-induced asthma, is given by injection under the skin every two to four weeks. Xolair is an anti-IgE monoclonal 
						antibody that blocks the antibodies which lead to inflammation. Xolair risks include the possibility of a severe reaction soon after getting the shot, 
						blood-clotting problems, and a possible link to cancer. Nebulizers for Asthma Medications Nebulizers are devices that administer medication in the form of a liquid mist 
						into the airways. Nebulizers pump oxygen through liquid medicine, turning it into a vapor which can be inhaled. As with inhalers, if nebulizers are used 
						to administer an inhaled corticosteroid, you should rinse out your mouth with water to avoid oral thrush. One type of nebulizer is the the small, lightweight PARI TREK Nebulizer . Some nebulizers are made 
						specially for children, like the quiet and easy-to-use MedQuip Pediatric 
						Nebulizer . The Bubbles Fish Mask is also made specially for 
						children to use with nebulizers to minimize aerosol loss and make treatment time more fun. Holding Chambers or Spacers for Asthma Medications As stated above, you should always use a holding chamber or spacer for inhaled 
						corticosteroids. Holding chambers are tubes that increase the effectiveness of inhalers by slowing down the delivery of the medication. Using a spacer also 
						reduces the risk of side effects from corticosteroid residue in the mouth. Young children who don't understand the timing of inhalers normally use holding 
						chambers. Asthma MDI Inhaler Changes MDIs traditionally used chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) to propel drugs like albuterol into the lungs. However, CFCs harm the ozone layer. After 
						December 31, 2008, you will be required to use a hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) inhaler instead of a CFC inhaler. HFA inhalers have been available since 1996, and 
						they may feel or taste a bit different than CFC inhalers. Peak Flow Monitoring Peak flow meters help you detect subtle increases in airway obstruction. A low reading 
						may be a sign of an oncoming asthma attack or that control medications need to be changed. Discuss peak flow monitoring in more detail with your doctor, and 
						don't forget to keep you peak flow meter clean using hot water and soap. Asthma Trigger Avoidance - Asthma Prevention The best way to prevent an asthma attack is to identify all of your triggers and avoid them. See our allergy solution guides and learn how to avoid the 
						following common asthma triggers: dust 
						mites , mold , pet dander , 
						and pollen . Allergy bedding is the most effective first line of defense against 
						allergens. Air purifiers eliminate allergens as well as airborne toxins like cigarette smoke 
						and chemical fumes. Window, furnace, & vent filters also trap allergens in the air, as 
						do allergy relief masks. Cold weather masks help 
						prevent asthma attacks triggered by cold weather. Dehumidifiers curb mold and 
						dust mite growth, and HEPA vacuum cleaners pick up allergens in carpet and 
						upholstery. Childhood Asthma Asthma is one of the most prevalent chronic diseases among children and affects up to one in four urban children. Asthma is the most common cause of missed 
						school due to chronic disease. Approximately 80% of childhood asthma sufferers develop symptoms before the age of five. If you think your child may have 
						asthma, look for coughing, wheezing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath, and see your doctor for a diagnosis. All children with asthma should have 
						asthma management plans and know what to do in case of an emergency. "Planning is the key to overcoming panic," says James Li, M.D., an asthma and allergy specialist at the Mayo Clinic. "A written plan can give you and your 
						child the confidence to treat asthma signs and symptoms promptly." A recent asthma study showed that only about 20 percent of children with asthma are 
						receiving optimal care, meaning that 80 percent could be receiving better care with more consistent use of medication, less exposure to environmental 
						triggers, and more education about asthma. See Disarming Asthma - A Mother's Perspective for more information about childhood asthma. Asthma Emergency You should go to a hospital if you have an asthma attack with severe shortness of breath. To learn more about what to do during an asthma 
						emergency, see Are You Prepared for an Asthma Emergency? for expert advice from a 
						certified paramedic. Order by 3 pm EST for fast free same day shipping on orders over $150*. 10 Years Online Same Day Shipping Low Price Guarantee Authorized Retailer Friendly Product Experts Return Policy Pay No Sales Tax 1/30/12 Achooallergy.com has long been my go-to source for air purifiers and dehumidifiers. Never has been anything short of excellent. More Testimonials Live Chat now! Order Hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Product Experts Available Mon-Fri 8:30am-5pm EST Sat-Sun 10am-5pm EST Customer Service Mon-Fri 9am-5pm EST Call Us at
        1-800-339-7123 Customer Service View Cart AchooAllergy.com Making you healthier and happier through allergy relief On our website, you will find the widest selection of allergy products and the very latest allergy and asthma information.  For more than a decade, our mission has been to provide you with the best prices and an excellent shopping experience. Sign Up To Receive Our Newsletter Read Our Blog Visit Our Learning Center Join The Conversation AchooAllergy.com About Us Our Core Values In the News Contact Us Careers Request a Catalog Receive Our Newsletter Request a Fabric Sample Physician Services Affiliate Program Site Map Customer Service Shopping Cart Account Log-in Shipping Return Policy Returns Form Special Discounts Corporate Purchase Orders Government Purchase Orders Medical Reimbursement Form User Agreement Privacy Policy More Info What's New Popular Products Top 5 HEPA Air Purifiers Learning Center Clearance Coupons & Sales Gift Certificates Allergist Referrals Marketers Vendors Buying Guides Air Purifier Buying Guide Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide Allergy Bedding Buying Guide Pillow Buying Guide Miele Vacuum Buying Guide Dehumidifier Buying Guide Humidifier Buying Guide Royal-Pedic Buying Guide Ogallala Buying Guide Furnace Filters Buying Guide AllerAir Buying Guide Masks Buying Guide Solution Guides Dust Mites Mold Sinus Seasonal Allergy Pet Allergy Asthma MCS Food Allergy AchooAllergy.com&reg 3411 Pierce Drive Atlanta, GA 30341 © 2000 - 2012 AchooAllergy.com, All Rights Reserved *Free 