Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Neuropsychiatric aspects of vascular dementia Free Online Book from PSYPLEXUS - a portal for mental 
      health professionals AUTHOR: DR. SHAHUL AMEEN, M.D. 2.2.2 VASCULAR DEMENTIA Vascular dementia is a condition produced by ischemic 
      or hemorrhagic brain injury. In its classic form, it is characterized by 
      an abrupt onset, stepwise deterioration, a patchy pattern of intellectual 
      deficits, focal neurologic symptoms and signs, a history of hypertension, 
      and evidence of associated cardiovascular disease (American Psychiatric Association, 2000). Vascular 
      dementia is most common after the age 50 and affects men more commonly (Askin-Edgar 
      et al., 2002). The risk factors for vascular dementia include both 
      modifiable (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia) and not 
      modifiable (e.g., age, gender, race, heredity) factors (Chui, 2000). 
      Etiologies of vascular dementia include hypertensive cerebrovascular 
      disease and thrombo-occlusive disease, multiple cerebral emboli, systemic 
      hypotension, intracerebral hemorrhage, and inflammatory and infectious 
      vascular disease (Cummings and Benson, 1992; Meyer et al., 1988). Four criteria for vascular dementia that are 
      currently used include the State of California AD Diagnostic and Treatment 
      Centers criteria (Chui et al., 1992), the National Institute of Neurologic 
      Disorders and Stroke and the Association Internationale pour la Recherche 
      et l’Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) criteria (Roman et al., 
      1993), the Hachinski Ischemic Score (HIS) as modified by Rosen (Hachinski 
      et al., 1974;  Rosen et al., 1980) and those found in DSM-IV (American Psychiatric Association, 1994). 
      Rather than considering vascular dementia as simply present or absent, 
      some of the recent neuropathologic analyses (Holmes et al., 1999; Lim et 
      al., 1999) distinguished between "some or any" vascular lesions versus 
      "pure" vascular pathology, i.e., the circumstance in which vascular 
      pathology was both sufficient to account for cognitive symptoms and 
      unaccompanied by other pathology. Some vascular pathology exists in 29 to 
      41% of dementia cases coming to autopsy in population-based cohorts, even 
      though pure vascular pathology accounted for dementia in only 9 to 10% 
      (Holmes et al., 1999; Lim et al., 1999). Clinical features of vascular dementia include motor 
      abnormalities, neuropsychological deficits, and neuropsychiatric symptoms. 
      Motor abnormalities may include weakness, spasticity, hyperreflexia, 
      extensor plantar responses, bradykinesia, parkinsonism, and pseudobulbar 
      palsy (Ishii et al., 1986). Neuropsychological abnormalities in patients 
      with vascular dementia are patchy, with preservation of some abilities and 
      mild to severe compromise of others. Personality changes are the most 
      common neuropsychiatric alterations in patients with vascular dementia; 
      and apathy, aspontaneity and abulia dominate the clinical syndrome. Other 
      neuropsychiatric symptoms include depression, lability of affect and 
      delusions (Askin-Edgar et al., 2002). Structural imaging studies usually 
      indicate multiple vascular lesions of the cerebral cortex and subcortical 
      structures. Treatment 
      of vascular dementia consists of control of blood pressure in the upper 
      range of normal and administration of aspirin or other platelet 
      antiaggregants (Meyer et al.,  1988). Nonaspirin antiaggregants may 
      be used in patients who are resistant to or intolerant of aspirin’s side 
      effects. Baclofen may be beneficial in managing spasticity in the 
      poststroke patient (Askin-Edgar et al., 2002). Other features in PsyPlexus: Plexus Directory of free articles for mental health professionals Mental Health Reviews Free-access review articles on mental health Psychopharmacology Tips Blog with tips on medicines for the mind Mental Health Papyrus Latest headlines from journals on mental 
    health PsyPlexus Newsletter Features new additions to the site and useful tips Xplor Page to search resources on mental health Free Journals Directory of free and open-access journals PsyPlexus Directory Selected websites on