Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 29 Apr 2008 09:21:54 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "bb6ffb76daa9c81:6b9"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET

july07-4-1 News (Updated July 29, 2007 ) [Home] [ Previous news] AIDS conference calls for child-specific HIV drugs By Michael Perry SYDNEY, July 25 (Reuters) - The world's biggest AIDS conference closed on
Wednesday with a call for the development of child-specific drugs to ensure
millions of HIV-infected children not only survive to adulthood, but also live
without damaging side effects from their treatment. "We must do more to protect our future, finding better ways to treat the
youngest among us...," said International AIDS Society (IAS) President Dr
Pedro Cahn. An estimated 2.3 million children are HIV infected, with around 600,000 new
infections each year. Without treatment half of all babies infected will die
before their second birthday. Yet only 15 percent of children who need treatment are currently receiving
antiretroviral drugs, the IAS conference in Sydney was told on Wednesday. "The goal of treatment in children must be balanced between halting the
effects of the HIV disease and the long-term effects of antiretroviral on a
developing child," said Dr Annette Sohn from the Division of Paediatric
Infectious Diseases at the University of California in San Francisco. Sohn said HIV-infected children on antiretrovirals risk HIV encephalopathy,
where the brain swells and damages tissues over time, reduced neurocognitive
development and lower bone density. The conference was told that early treatment of children increased survival
rates, but Sohn said some children who have been on early treatment have been
forced onto second and third line drugs as the virus quickly builds resistance. "It's clear that response to treatment is better when children are
started before they develop severe immune deficiency," she said. "What
is the future for those children already on second line drugs at the age of
5?" ADULT-DESIGNED DRUGS Those lucky enough to receive antiretroviral treatment are usually
administered adult-designed drugs, cut into smaller and sometimes inaccurate
doses which may mean treatment failure. "Most of the world has been forced to split adult tablets into child
size pieces. However splitting tablets into anything less than one half risks
under or over dosing," said Sohn. "It means children that require smaller sized pieces may be under dosed,
leading to inadequate drug levels and risk of treatment failure." Sohn said there was a need for generic paediatric drugs which would be
cheaply shipped, stored and administered. "We still need more paediatric antiretroviral formulations. Children
clearly need a wider range of drugs in dual and triple combinations," she
said. The United Nations says close to 40 million people are infected with the AIDS
virus and that treatment had dramatically expanded from 240,000 people in 2001
to 1.3 million by 2005. In June, world powers at the Group of Eight (G8) summit in Germany set a
target of providing AIDS drugs over the next few years to approximately 5
million people. The three-day IAS conference, attended by 5,000 delegates from more than 130
countries, urged governments to allocate 10 percent of HIV funding to research,
both medical and operational, to ensure treatment reached those in the world's
poorest nations. "HIV presents one of the greatest and most complex scientific challenges
of our time," said Professor David Cooper, co-chair of the 2007 IAS
conference. "Confronting this challenge will require sustained political will and
increased resources dedicated to AIDS research." Early
treatment sees more HIV babies survive Wed Jul 25, 2007 2:19 PM BST By Michael Perry SYDNEY (Reuters) - HIV-infected babies have a greater chance of survival if
they receive treatment before they show signs of illness or a weakened immune
system, the International AIDS Society (IAS) was told on Tuesday. A study of infants in Cape Town and Soweto in South Africa found that infants
given immediate drug treatment had a 96 percent survival rate compared with 84
percent for children where treatment was deferred. The study, sponsored by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases (NIAID), was so successful that it was amended in 2007, ending
enrolments for the deferred treatment group and evaluating those in the group
for treatment. An estimated 2.3 million children are currently HIV infected, with around
600,000 new HIV infections in children each year. Without treatment half of all
babies infected with HIV die before their second birthday. "Children with HIV infection frequently show rapid disease progression
within the first year of life due to their developing immune systems and
susceptibility to other serious infections," said Dr Elias Zerhouni,
director of the U.S. National Institute of Health, in a statement on the study
at an IAS conference. "This is the first randomized clinical trial that shows that infants
treated before 3 months of age will do better than infants who have their
treatment delayed," Zerhouni said. The study of 337 babies aged 6 to 12 weeks was initially aimed at examining
whether early antiretroviral drug therapy over a limited period would delay HIV
progression. Doctors had hoped that early treatment would allow a child's immune system to
develop and possibly allow the child to stop treatment for a period of time and
avoid continuous therapy. A review in 2007 found such a significant difference in survival rates and
the interim results forwarded to the World Health Organisation. "The results of this trial could have significant public health
implications worldwide because these findings will cause experts to consider
changes in standards of care in many parts of the world," said NIAID
director Dr Anthony Fauci. IMMUNE SYSTEMS Caring for HIV-infected children is complicated by the fact that their immune
systems are not fully developed in the first year of life, which makes them
especially susceptible to rapid the disease progression and death. The current standard of HIV care in many parts of the world is to treat
infants with antiretroviral therapy, but only after they show signs of illness
or a weakened immune system. Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) said children were the "silent
victims" of the global AIDS epidemic, with 9 out of 10 child sufferers
infected through mother-to-child transmission during pregnancy, childbirth or
breastfeeding. About 87 percent of children with HIV live in sub-Saharan Africa, with the
vast majority beyond health services. Of the 540,000 children newly infected in
2006, 470,000 live in Africa and only 700 in either Europe or North America,
said MSF. MSF said "vertical transmission" of HIV from mother to child had
been almost been wiped out in wealthy countries because antiretroviral drug
therapy was given to pregnant mothers and babies within a few hours of birth. The mother-to-child transmission rate in wealthy nations was below 1 percent,
compared with rates as high as 25 to 45 percent in poorer nations in Africa,
said MSF. The United Nations says close to 40 million people are infected with the AIDS
virus and that treatment had dramatically expanded from 240,000 people in 2001
to 1.3 million by 2005. In June, world powers at the Group of Eight (G8) summit in Germany set a
target of providing AIDS drugs over the next few years to approximately 5
million people. Modern
technology and ancient surgery battle AIDS Tue Jul 24, 2007 11:05 AM ET By Michael Perry SYDNEY (Reuters) - The emergence of new and improved drugs, genetic
engineering and the ancient surgical practice of circumcision are the latest
weapons in the fight against AIDS, the International AIDS Society conference was
told on Tuesday. A new batch of drugs that slow the progress of HIV in patients and
genetically modified cells that prevent further infections are about to become
available or trialed, doctors told the world's largest AIDS conference. "It's an extremely exciting time in terms of drug development. We have
better drugs in existing classes, as well as whole new classes of drugs,"
said Professor David Cooper, co-chairman of the 2007 IAS conference in Sydney. "Patients and their clinicians now have a much wider choice of drug
combinations than ever before," said Cooper, director of Australia's
National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research at the University of
New South Wales. But the biggest breakthrough for the world's poorest nations, which will not
initially be able to afford these new drugs and which carry the heaviest AIDS
burden, lies in a procedure dating back to at least 2,300 B.C. in Egypt --
circumcision. African studies have shown that male circumcision can reduce HIV transmission
from women to men by about 60 percent, said Professor Robert Bailey at the
School of Public Health at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Universal circumcision could avert two million new infections and 300,000
deaths in sub-Saharan Africa over 10 years, he said. Africa is the epicenter of the AIDS epidemic. South Africa has an estimated
5.5 million people with HIV and is struggling to stem the spread of the disease
in the general population. Bailey said that while the World Health Organisation (WHO) had now endorsed
circumcision as a preventative measure, encouraging the widespread use of
circumcision would not be easy. "Circumcision is not just simply a surgical procedure. It's tied up in a
complex web of cultural and religious practices and beliefs," he said. NEW DRUGS New drugs and improved second-generation drugs will not only be more
effective in fighting HIV, the IAS conference was told, but could offer
treatment to patients whose disease had become immune to earlier drugs. Recent research has shown that new classes of anti-retroviral drugs, which
include various inhibitors, provide superior benefit to patients with highly
resistant HIV, said Joseph Eron, professor of medicine at the University of
North Carolina. "I think that while it will take some time, some of these new agents
will also be very useful in the developing world were we are seeing the
emergence of resistant virus," said Eron in detailing the new drugs. At the cutting edge of the AIDS battle is genetic engineering, with human
trials about to start on genetically modifying a HIV patient's blood stem cells
and T cells and reintroducing them into the body to better fight the disease. "This is a permanent modification of the cells. As long as the cells
persist in the patient they will be resistant to further infection," said
Professor John Rossi, head of biological sciences at the U.S. Beckman Research
Institute. "We realize that this is not a treatment that will be applied
universally," said Rossi, adding the treatment should allow patients to
reduce drug dosage. Rossi and Eron called on drug companies to make new drugs available to the
world's poorer nations. Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) told the IAS conference on Monday said that
while there had been dramatic price reductions in some HIV drugs, the newer,
less toxic drugs recommended by the WHO had become more expensive. An MSF report
said some new drugs had risen in price by nearly 500 percent from $99 to up to
$487. The United Nations says close to 40 million people are infected with HIV and
that treatment had dramatically expanded from 240,000 people in 2001 to 1.3
million by 2005. In June, world powers at the Group of Eight (G8) summit in Germany set a
target of providing AIDS drugs over the next few years to approximately 5
million people. Circumcision
could save millions from AIDS: studies Tue Jul 24, 2007 8:47 AM BST By Jane Lee SYDNEY (Reuters) - Millions of new HIV infections in Africa could be avoided
if more men were circumcised, an International AIDS Society conference was told
on Tuesday. Studies in Africa have found that male circumcision, the world's oldest
surgical procedure dating back to 2300 BC, reduces HIV transmission from females
to males by 60 percent. Universal circumcision could avert 2 million new infections and 300,000
deaths in sub-Saharan Africa over 10 years, said Professor Robert Bailey from
the School of Public Health at the University of Illinois in Chicago. "If we had a vaccine that was 60 percent protective we would be very
happy and rolling it out as fast as possible," Bailey told the IAS
conference in Sydney. "But no one stands to profit from male circumcision -- no one but the
4,000 in Africa who will be infected tomorrow." Africa is the epicenter of the AIDS epidemic. South Africa has an estimated
5.5 million people with HIV and is struggling to stem the spread of the disease
in the general population. But African nations such as Cameroon and Nigeria, where circumcision is
common, have a much lower rate of HIV infection than Zimbabwe and Swaziland
where there is little circumcision. The idea of using circumcision as a weapon against AIDS emerged after studies
in Uganda, Kenya, Malawi, Zambia and the United States found the potential to
significantly reduce infections, said Bailey, adding the World Health
Organisation has now endorsed circumcision as a disease prevention method. "The challenge ahead for us is how to roll out circumcision safely ...
and to persuade leaders in countries that it is going to help their
populations," Bailey told a news conference. "Circumcision is not just simply a surgical procedure. Its tied up in a
complex web of cultural and religious practices and beliefs," he added. "It's not easy for politicians and ministers of health to quickly come
out in favor of circumcision in countries where circumcision is not
traditionally practiced." Bailey said aid organizations would not offer the service until local
governments endorsed it, for fear of being seen as culturally insensitive. WOMEN BACK CIRCUMCISION Women in African nations are expected to be the drivers behind using
circumcision to stop HIV infection as they are traditionally associated with
ensuring hygiene in communities. "Women, more than men, equate circumcision with improved hygiene,"
said Bailey. "It's often up to women to provide the water, the soap and the materials
for men to bathe and cleanse themselves. Many of the women complain the men are
not as clean as they could be." Circumcision should not be seen by men as their only preventative measure
against HIV and must still be combined with safe sex practices. Condom use
should still be encouraged. "It's very important not to view this as a standalone surgical
procedure," said Bailey. Many Africans were already seeking circumcision to try and stop the spread of
HIV, but many were suffering medical complications because of poor procedures. There also was some evidence that circumcision may help prevent infection
between homosexual men, with one study in Uganda showing a 30 percent reduction
in infection. Human trials use genetic modification to fight HIV SYDNEY (AFP) - Scientists have begun human trials of a revolutionary HIV
treatment that genetically modifies people's cells to halt the virus, a
conference of international experts in Sydney was told Tuesday. US professor John Rossi said the world-first trials began recently at the
City of Hope hospital in California, the culmination of research that began in
the early 1990s. "We have already enrolled our first patient, who will be infused with
his own genetically modified blood stem cells and we will enrol four more
patients after him," said Rossi, the head of the hospital's molecular
biology division. The process, known as intra-cellular immunity, involves changing the genetic
information in the human cells, known as T-cells, that the HIV virus normally
locks into and infects before replicating and spreading. A piece of genetic material is introduced into the cells that makes then
recognise HIV as a threat, stimulating the body's natural cellular defence
mechanism to prevent the HIV cell from replicating. "Our approach has been to take blood stem cells and T-cells out of
patients that are HIV infected and introduce into these cells genes that produce
products that inhibit HIV replication," Rossi told the International Aids
Society conference in Sydney. "This would be long-term, this is a permanent modification of these
cells, so that as long as these cells persist in the patient, they will have
resistance to the HIV infection." Rossi said the ultimate goal of the research was to either completely control
the HIV virus or reduce its presence in patients to such an extent that they
needed fewer drugs to survive. "It's a landmark trial in many ways and we're very excited about being
the first people in the world to do this," he said. The conference also heard that a US study showed a link between HIV infection
in gay men and increased use of drugs such as methamphetamines. Researcher Christopher Hurt from the University of North Carolina said the
study showed that between 2000 and 2005, the proportion of HIV-positive US men
under 30 who also took club drugs almost tripled from 1.7 to five percent. Hurt said research confirmed that gay sex and club drugs were a dangerous
combination. "Gay men were already at risk and now they're becoming even more
vulnerable," he said. Hurt said increased use of drugs such as methamphetamine had the potential to
dramatically lift HIV infection rates among gay men. "The libido is stimulated on methamphetamine and we also know that if
you stay awake for hours and hours and hours you're more likely to have marathon
sessions of sex," he said. "And more s