Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Professional Hypnosis Training, Hypnosis Certification with Irina Benoit in Mississauga, Canada Home Upcoming Events Products (New) Testimonials Contact Us Weight Loss Anxiety or Fears/Phobias Hypnosis for Stress Hypnosis for Children Hypnosis for Sleep Quit Smoking Hypnosis Training Advanced Courses Irina Benoit What is Hypnosis How Hypnosis Works FAQ Hypnosis News Past Life Regression Success Stories: All my life, my "inner child" has searched for unconditional love. After one session, I no longer look to others for this as I have found it within myself and within one more I felt solid. In the past I had struggled with guilt and did not believe in me. Irina has allowed me to shed the guilt and feel self-confident about who I am and what I do. And in the past, I had never completely given love to someone fearing the hurt that could result. I now look forward to love that can be beautiful and fulfilling.  I am happy, I am strong and 2010 is the year of change. I wouldn’t be where I am today without Irina. C.H. I just had hypnosis done for remembering names and faces that afternoon. After we left our hypnosis training class at Lasting Change Hypnosis, Diana and I met a friend whom I have not seen for sometime. Diana asked me what’s his name and I looked at the friend. Instantly, his name came out. I said, “Alex! His name is Alex.” It felt good to be able to remember and match the names of people and faces that I met – whether I see them regularly or very seldom. Names are important, it is one of our first gifts in life. Liane H. Thank you Irina, I had no idea how nice it was to have my mind free again. We came back from our trip and everything went really well a little anxious on first flight - but not until I was actually on the plane. I did my deep breathing and it worked. Also no anxiety on the second plane after transferring. None of them on my way back home (two more flights)!! It was so good - absolutely no anxiety at airports. Thank you so much! My anxiety and fear of flying was gone with only two hypnosis sessions. For the first time in my life I am free to enjoy a holiday! My family is so relived. We had stress free vacation. I feel fantastic. Thank you, thank you, and thank you. With the help of Hypnotherapy my 20-year fear is gone! I can enjoy my life again! Mia, Toronto One of the luckiest days of my life was the day I met Irina. After over 20 years of my weight going up and down, and then being the heaviest I have ever been, I decided to meet with her. I had tried every diet there was. After only 2 visits, she helped me deal with my food cravings and eating issues and within 12 weeks, I lost 25lbs without being on a diet. I cleared out my closet, donated my large sized clothes and bought a new wardrobe. She also helped me create my path to living a healthier, happier life. I am now living my best life thanks to Irina! Effy All my life, my "inner child" has searched for unconditional love. After one session, I no longer look to others for this as I have found it within myself and within one more I felt solid. In the past I had struggled with guilt and did not believe in me. Irina has allowed me to shed the guilt and feel self-confident about who I am and what I do. And in the past, I had never completely given love to someone fearing the hurt that could result. I now look forward to love that can be beautiful and fulfilling.  I am happy, I am strong and 2010 is the year of change. I wouldn’t be where I am today without Irina. CH Irina helped me reclaim myself at a low point of my life. Hypnosis is one of the things that helped me overcome the barriers that I've set up for myself over the last couple of years. I now remember that I am worth a lot more that I've given myself credit for. I remember how to love myself despite what is happening around me or regardless of what is being said. Hypnosis has allowed me to focus on what matters the most - ME! Jen I was somewhat skeptical of hypnosis, but motivated enough to try it to assist with my general anxiety. Through Irina's care and skill, I have progressed tremendously with matters I wanted to improve, in just a matter of three hypnosis sessions over a few weeks. She is now helping me with improving my concentration and I am confident that hypnosis will be very successful for me again. I would recommend Irina to anyone needing help with hypnotherapy. PR Hypnosis Training in Mississauga - Lasting Change Hypnosis Professional Hypnosis Certification - Secrets to Success are Included! Professional Hypnosis Training/Certification with Irina Benoit Become a Certified Hypnotist with Professional Hypnosis Training Approved by the National Guild of Hypnotists With the general public becoming more body-mind aware, the Hypnosis profession needs dedicated and talented people who have passion for helping others. If you would like a top rate professional career among the most successfuly-trained people in the world. If you want to make more money that many other professionals, working part time or full time. If you want an interesting, exciting and rewarding career of helping others achieve their personal goals, while being paid for dong what you love to do. If you want to do something with your life and do it in your lifetime and
                do it well. Then this training is for you, because in our changing world we live in the only way to know the future is to create it! Facts: The Curriculum was approved by the National Guild of Hypnosis established in 1951. It has been tested and taught to over 7000 NGH members in 40 countries. This program was specifically designed to give participants a working understanding of hypnosis and practical skills to produce the hypnotic state and use it effectively to enable your clients in weight loss, stress management, smoking cessation, self esteem, pain management, goal setting techniques and more. The Hypnotherapy Training Program is taught by NGH Certified Instructor, Irina Benoit. Internship programs are available. For more information or to register click here. Workshop Dates & Schedule for 2012 This practical intensive curriculum is designed to give you a working understanding and practical tools to practice the classical approach to hypnosis. The Hypnosis Training Program features personalized training in small groups, lively and interactive learning, combined with a warm, helpful environment to insure your success. You will be trained on: How to hypnotize Self-hypnosis Client assessment Hypnotic Inductions (authoritarian/permissive, rapid) How to properly explain "What Hypnosis Is" to clients How to establish rapport Laws of Suggestions Suggestibility Tests Recognition of the depth of the Hypnotic State Deepening Techniques Posthypnotic suggestions Weight Loss Hypnosis Hypnosis for Smoking Cessation, Hypnosis for Stress Reduction Non-therapeutic applications to increase: Learning abilities Presentation skills Confidence Motivation Sales Relaxation You will be coached for: Fundamental principles of Success and Goals Setting to build your clientele and establish your profitable practice. Program includes two 100-page workbooks for ongoing learning with CDs, DVDs, inductions, testing sheets and many other training materials to use in your practice. We are here to insure your success! Questions? Would you rather speak to a live person? Schedule a call with our Program Advisor. Graduates receive an automatic one year membership with NGH that entitles you to: Hypno–Gram quarterly Newsletter Journal of Hypnotism quarterly Magazine Books and video discounts Continuing education programs Toronto/Mississauga Chapter networking and education Annual NGH Conference Continuing education programs Toronto/Mississauga NGH Chapter networking and education Referrals through computer listings Hotel/motel and auto rental discounts in the U.S. Bonus 1 - We will feature a special introduction to “Think and Get Thin” Irina Benoit’s Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Training Program that has helped hundreds of clients to lose weight and keep it off. Bonus 2 - Irina Benoit will mentor and coach you for three (3) months after completion of the hypnosis training, through webinars & meetings to ensure your full readiness. Upon completion of all class hours plus hands on practice and independent study, you will receive a diploma and you will be accredited by National Guild of Hypnosis. Invest in your Future! Attend the Professional Hypnosis Training & Certification Training Dates & Schedule for 2012 Hypnosis Certification – Professional Hypnosis Training Toronto – Self esteem – Fears – Phobias – Hypnotherapy Training - Anxiety – Stress – Weight Loss Serving Mississauga, Etobicoke, Oakville, Toronto and the GTA. 268 Lakeshore Rd. E. u.200, Mississauga, Ontario L5G 1H1 Tel: 905.271.0695 Hypnosis Has the Power to help you — help yourself! Strengthen your Mind, Experience your True Potential! Professional Hypnosis Training. Home What is Hypnosis How Hypnosis Works Irina Benoit FAQ What We Offer Weight Loss Quit Smoking Anxieties and Fears Testimonials Hypnosis News Past Life Regression Other Services Hypnosis Training Contact Us Copyright © 2006-2011 Lasting Change Hypnosis INC. Privacy P