
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:57:17 GMT
Connection: close

Staying Healthy Skip to main content Staying Healthy You are here: Home Living With Epilepsy Health and Wellness Staying Healthy Email Print Twitter Facebook MySpace Delicous Stumble Digg More... [ Physical Fitness ] Staying healthy is important for people with epilepsy. Diet, physical fitness and sleep are all critical components in a healthy lifestyle. Physical Fitness & Exercise Leading an active life is good medicine for most people with epilepsy. If you find that getting overheated or physically tired triggers seizures, then you may want to avoid exercising when it's very hot. Take breaks when you feel you need them. But if you are like most people with seizures, you will find that exercise is good for you in a number of ways. It makes you feel good and fights depression. It keeps your weight at reasonable levels so you look your best, and it builds self-confidence and self-esteem. Find out more on our physical fitness and exercise page , including details about precautions for specific physical activities. Diet and Eating Healthfully In most cases, epilepsy isn't the kind of condition that can be treated with large doses of vitamins or mineral supplements. In fact, large quantities of either could be bad for your health. Check with your doctor before taking more vitamins than are in typical one-a-day multivitamins. If you are a woman who might become pregnant, ask your doctor about folic acid and how much you should be taking. Eating a balanced diet is as important for you as it is for everyone else. However, if you think you are overweight, don't go on a crash diet without checking with your doctor first. Sleep Most people who have epilepsy need about the same amount of sleep as everybody else. There's usually no need to take extra naps or to go to bed early. However, all-night study sessions, a series of late nights, or an overall lack of sleep can greatly raise the risk of seizures. In fact, that's one reason why doctors often ask adults or children suspected of having epilepsy to stay up late the night before an EEG examination. The lack of sleep increases the chances of seizure activity showing up on the tests. Another reason is to increase the chances that you will sleep during part of the EEG. Some seizure patterns are much more common in sleep than while awake. On the other hand, people with epilepsy should not feel they need an excessive amount of sleep. If you feel tired and sleepy all the time, chances are your medicine needs adjustment in some way, or you may be depressed. Perhaps your dose is too high, or you are taking it at the wrong time of day. Don't make changes yourself, though. Tell your doctor about it. Talking to Your Doctor Employment Topics Health and Wellness Staying Healthy Alcohol and Drugs Dating and Marriage Seizure Dogs Epilepsy Bill of Rights Community Passport Seizure Tracker Parents and Caregivers Gender Related Topics Youth and Young Adults African American Seniors First Responders Educators Find a Local: Affiliate : or Doctor : Epilepsy Foundation. Not another moment lost to seizures home en español about us contact us for media store eNewsletter Search Terms Give About Epilepsy What is Epilepsy Causes of Epilepsy Seizures Health Risks Treatment Syndromes Diagnosis First Aid Related Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Epilepsy is among the least understood of major chronic medical conditions, but we are working to change that. Living With Epilepsy Talking to Your Doctor Employment Topics Health and Wellness Parents and Caregivers Gender Related Topics Youth and Young Adults African American Seniors First Responders Educators Ways to manage the challenges created by epilepsy. Resources Local Affiliates eCommunities epilepsyUSA Magazine Epilepsy In The News Newsroom Driving and Travel Safety Epilepsy Legal Defense Fund Financial Planning Employment Topics Veterans eNewsletter Books, Catalog, etc. Healthcare Professionals Training Staying informed on your options is key to managing your epilepsy. Get Involved Advocacy Give eCommunities Local Affiliates Affiliate Spotlight Heroes Among Us Volunteer National Walk for Epilepsy National Epilepsy Awareness Month DIY Fundraising Join us in raising awareness and advocating for people with epilepsy. Research Research Programs Grant and Fellowship Opportunities Grant and Fellowship Awardees New Therapy Grant Program Participate in Research Phenome/Genome Project AED Pregnancy Registry Additional Resources The only way to cure epilepsy is through research and new discoveries. eCommunities About Us Contact Us Job Opportunities FoundatioNet Disclaimer Feedback 8301 Professional Place Landover MD 20785 Tel.: 1-800-332-1000 Fax: 1-301-577-2684 Español: 1-866-748-8008 Connect With Us: Share this with a friend Sign up