
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 01:07:39 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.2-1ubuntu4.14
X-SilverStripe-Cache: hit at Tue, 14 Feb 2012 20:07:39 -0500
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Sickle Cell Test: At a Glance PLEASE NOTE: Your web browser does not have JavaScript enabled.
                                            Unless you enable Javascript ,
                                            your ability to navigate and access the features of this website will be limited. Search Help? Tests List of all tests and synonyms test not listed? 5-HIAA ACE ACTH AFP tumour marker Albumin Aldosterone and renin Allergy blood test (IgE) ALP Alpha-1 antitrypsin ALT AMA Ammonia Amylase ANA Antenatal group and screen Antibody screen Antibody tests Antiphospholipid antibodies Antithrombin Apo A Apo B Apo E aPTT AST Autoantibodies Bicarbonate Bilirubin Blood cultures Blood film Blood gases Blood group testing BNP Body fluid analysis Bone markers Bone marrow BRCA C-peptide C-reactive protein C. diff CA 15-3 CA 19-9 CA-125 Caeruloplasmin Calcitonin Calcium Carbamazepine Cardiac risk assessment Cardiolipin Catecholamines, plasma and urine CCP CD4 count CEA Cervical smear CF gene mutation Chlamydia Chloride Cholesterol Cholinesterase CK CK-MB Coagulation factors Coeliac disease tests Complement Copper Cortisol Creatinine Creatinine clearance Crossmatch CSF analysis Cyclosporin Cystatin C D-dimer Diabetes-related autoantibodies Differential - WBC Digoxin Direct antiglobulin Drugs of abuse E/LFT eGFR Electrolytes Electrophoresis Erythropoietin ESR Ethanol Factor V Leiden and PT 20210 FBC Ferritin Fibrinogen FOB Fructosamine FSH FT3 FT4 G6PD Gastrin GGT Glucose Gonorrhoea Gram stain Group and screen Growth hormone H pylori Haematocrit Haemoglobin Haptoglobin HbA1c hCG HDL cholesterol Heparin anti-Xa Hepatitis A virus Hepatitis B virus Hepatitis C virus Her-2/neu Herpes HIV antigen / antibody HIV genotypic resistance HIV viral load HLA-B27 Home tests Homocysteine Hormone receptor status HPV test hs-CRP IGF-1 Influenza (flu) tests Insulin Iron Iron studies IRT Lactate LD LDL LDL direct Lead Liver function tests LH Lipase Lipid profile Lithium Lp(a) Lupus anticoagulant Lyme disease Magnesium Maternal screening Mercury Metanephrines Microalbumin Monospot MPA MRSA MSI Myoglobin Nicotine / cotinine Oestrogen Osmolality p24 antigen Paracetamol Pericardial fluid analysis Peritoneal fluid analysis Phenobarbitone Phenytoin Phosphate Plasma free metanephrine Platelet count Platelet function tests Pleural fluid analysis Porphyrins Potassium Prealbumin Pregnancy test Progesterone Prolactin Protein C and Protein S PSA PSEN1 PT PTH RBC Red cell indices Reticulocyte count Rheumatoid factor Rubella test Salicylate Semen analysis Serotonin SHBG Sickle cell Sirolimus SMA SMRP Sodium Strep throat Sweat chloride Synovial fluid Syphilis Tacrolimus Tau protein TB skin test Testosterone Therapeutic drug monitoring Thyroglobulin Thyroid antibodies TIBC TORCH Total protein TPMT Trichomonas Triglycerides Troponin Trypsin TSH Tumour markers Urea Uric acid Urinalysis Urine culture Urine metanephrines Urine protein Valproic acid Vancomycin Vitamin B12 and folate Vitamin D White blood cell count Zinc protoporphyrin Conditions/Diseases List of all conditions/diseases Acidosis and alkalosis Addison's disease Adrenal insufficiency Alcoholism Allergies Alzheimer's disease Anaemia Angina pectoris Ankylosing spondylitis Arthritis Asthma Autoimmune disorders Barmah Forest virus Benign prostatic hypertrophy (BHP) Bleeding disorders Bone marrow disorders Bowel cancer Breast cancer Cervical cancer CHF (congestive heart failure) Chlamydia Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) Coeliac disease Conn's syndrome Cushing's syndrome CVD (cardiovascular disease) Cystic fibrosis Diabetes Diarrhoea Down syndrome Encephalitis Endocrine syndromes Epilepsy Fibromyalgia Folate deficiency Fungal infections Gallstones Genetic conditions Gonorrhoea Gout Graves' disease Guillain-Barré syndrome Haemochromatosis Hashimoto's thyroiditis Heart attack Heart disease Hepatitis Herpes High blood pressure HIV Human papillomavirus Huntington's disease Hypercoagulable disorders Hypertension Hyperthyroidism Hypothyroidism Infertility Inflammatory bowel diseases Insulin resistance Jaundice Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Kidney disease Lead poisoning Leukaemia Liver disease Lung diseases Lupus Lyme disease Lymphoma Malaria Malnutrition Meningitis and encephalitis Menopause Metabolic syndrome Multiple myeloma Multiple sclerosis Myeloproliferative disorders Neural tube defects Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Ovarian cancer Pancreatic cancer Pancreatic diseases Pancreatic insufficiency Pancreatitis PCOS Peptic ulcer Pituitary disorders Porphyria Pregnancy Prostate cancer Proteinuria Q fever Reactive arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Ross River fever Septic arthritis Sickle cell anaemia Sjogren's syndrome Staph wound infections STDs Stroke Suxamethonium apnoea Syphilis TB, Tuberculosis Testicular cancer Thalassaemia Thyroid diseases Trichomonas Urinary tract infection (UTI) Vitamin B12 deficiency West Nile virus Wilson's disease Wound and skin Infections Screening List of screening recommendations Newborns Infants Children Young Adults Adults Adults 50+ Pregnancy Sickle cell Also known as: Haemoglobin S; Hb S Formal name: Sickle cell At a Glance Test Sample The Test Common Questions Related Pages At a Glance Why Get Tested? To screen for the presence of sickle cell trait or to confirm the presence of sickle cell disease When to Get Tested? If you are of Afro-Carribean descent to determine if you carry one or both genes for sickle cell disease and for antenatal screening Sample Required? A blood sample drawn from a vein in the arm. In children, a blood sample from a finger-prick or heel-prick The Test Sample What is being tested? Blood is tested for the presence of haemoglobin S (HbS), which is a genetic variant of the protein haemoglobin. Haemoglobin is found inside red blood cells (RBCs) and is responsible for carrying oxygen from the lungs to all of the tissues and organs of the body. Normally haemoglobin exists in various forms (haemoglobin A, haemoglobin A2, and haemoglobin F) that are present in different amounts. One genetic abnormality of haemoglobin is known as HbS, which causes the RBC to change shape and affects its ability to carry oxygen. In sickle cell disease, one abnormal HbS gene is inherited from each of the parents. How is the sample collected for testing? In young children a finger-prick or heel-prick is performed to obtain a few drops of blood. In adults, a blood sample is obtained from a vein. The Test How is it used? When is it requested? What does the test result mean? Is there anything else I should know? How is it used? The test is used to screen for the presence and amount of haemoglobin S (HbS). In the screening test, a chemical is added to the patient's blood sample that reduces the amount of oxygen it carries. In those who carry the sickle cell gene , the reduced amount of oxygen will cause crystals to form. These crystals alter the shape of the RBC, resulting in the characteristic sickle shape. To confirm and identify the amount of HbS present a test is used that separates out the different types of haemoglobin. Each type of haemoglobin will form a unique 'pattern' so that HbS can be identified and a diagnosis of sickle-cell disease made. ^ Back to top When is it requested? Because sickle cell disease is a genetically inherited disorder, an individual may have the trait (carry one mutated gene from one parent) or the disease (carries two mutated genes, one from each parent), thus the screening test is often performed on infants and children. If you are of African ancestry (about 25% of Africans carry at least one gene for this trait), you may wish to be tested prior to starting a family. ^ Back to top What does the test result mean? If the screening test is negative, it means that the gene for sickle cell trait is not present. If the screening test is positive, then further haemoglobin testing must be performed to confirm whether one mutated gene or both are present. In unaffected individuals HbS is not present. In those who have sickle cell trait, 20% to 40% of the haemoglobin is HbS. In sickle cell disease, as much as 80% to 100% of the haemoglobin may be HbS. In general, individuals who have sickle cell trait do not have any significant symptoms and live a normal life. Those individuals who carry both abnormal genes have sickle cell disease. In this condition the person may not experience any symptoms under 'normal' conditions, but may experience episodes called 'sickling crises' brought on by, for example, infection or dehydration. During such episodes symptoms can include joint pain, abdominal pain, fever and seizures. In the long-term, sufferers may may experience haemolytic anaemia (breakdown of red blood cells), growth impairment, jaundice and increased risk of serious infections. ^ Back to top Is there anything else I should know? Because of the abnormal (sickle-cell) shape of the RBC in sickle cell disease, RBCs can become stuck in small capillary blood vessels, thereby blocking the blood supply to various organs. About 25 percent of the African population carry at least one abnormal gene although only a small proportion of these carry both genes. A sickle cell test can screen for presence of the abnormal gene. The test can fail to detect haemoglobin S (sickle cell disease or trait) under the following circumstances: if you have a blood transfusion within three to four months before the sickle cell test if you have the red blood cell disease polycythaemia (increased red blood cell production) if you test an infant less than 3 months old if you are taking certain drugs, such as phenothiazines. Because of the severity of the disease, people of African ancestry who are planning to have children may wish to seek counselling from their doctor to ensure that neither carries the sickle cell trait. ^ Back to top Common Questions What is the treatment for sickle cell disease? If I have sickle cell trait, will I still need treatment? Do people who are not of African ancestry get sickle cell disease? Is there antenatal testing for sickle cell disease? 1.  What is the treatment for sickle cell disease? The life span of a patient with sickle cell disease has increased significantly to over 50 years of age. Common causes of death include infections, clots or blockages of blood vessels, and kidney failure. There is no cure for sickle cell disease. Treatment is based on the symptoms existing at the time of a 'sickling-crisis'. This may include blood transfusions, antibiotics, on-going fluid intake through intravenous (IV) solutions and/or drinking of fluids, and medication to reduce pain. Red blood cell exchange has been used in sickle cell crisis. More recently, bone marrow transplants have been shown to be effective. ^ Back to top 2.  If I have sickle cell trait, will I still need treatment? Patients with sickle cell trait generally do not require any long-term treatment. Under certain circumstances, those individuals with the trait who are exposed to reduced levels of oxygen (excessive exercise or high altitudes) may experience some 'crisis-like' symptoms like pain or difficulty breathing. ^ Back to top 3.  Do people who are not of African ancestry get sickle cell disease? The sickle cell gene is found mainly among African descendents. Individuals who have sickle-cell trait (i.e. only one copy of the faulty gene) are naturally 'protected' against the parasite that causes malaria, which is why the gene has 'survived' to be passed down through generations. The trait also appears in individuals from the Mediterranean coastal areas and may be seen in those from inter-race backgrounds. ^ Back to top 4.  Is there antenatal testing for sickle cell disease? Antenatal testing (i.e. testing the fetus while still in the womb) is available. Amniotic fluid may be tested at 14-16 weeks to provide a definitive answer as to whether or not the fetus has sickle-cell trait or disease. Potential parents can also be tested to see if they carry the sickle-cell gene before starting a family - genetic counselling is strongly encouraged if a positive sickle screen is obtained from one or both parents. ^ Back to top Ask a Laboratory Scientist * indicates a required field! First Name: Last Name: Please indicate whether you are a: Patient, Family member or Friend Healthcare Professional Other Your Email Address *: Confirm Your Email Address *: You must provide a valid email address in order to receive a response. Subject: Question or Comment Spam Prevention Question *: | | Related Pages On This Site Conditions: Sickle cell anaemia Elsewhere On The Web Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne The Thalassaemia Society of Victoria Article Sources « Return to Related Pages NOTE: This article is based on research that utilizes the sources cited here as well as the collective experience of the Lab Tests Online Editorial Review Board . This article is periodically reviewed by the Editorial Board and may be updated as a result of the review.  Any new sources cited will be added to the list and distinguished from the original sources used. Understanding Your Tests Patient identification Anatomical Pathology Blood banking Collecting samples Testing tips Genetic testing Home testing Test reliability Other testing: radiology Reference ranges Your Role Inside the Lab In the News Article Index About this Site Send Us Your Comments This article was last reviewed on May  9, 2007.  |  This article was last modified on December  7, 2011. The review date indicates when the article was last reviewed from beginning to end to ensure that it reflects the most current science. A review may not require any modifications to the article, so the two dates may not always agree. The modified date indicates that one or more changes were made to the article. Such changes may or may not result from a full review of the article, so the two dates may not always agree. Understanding Your Tests | Inside the Lab | In the News | Article Index | About this Site | Send Us Your Comments ©2001 - by American Association for Clinical Chemistry  • Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy We comply with the HONcode standard for tru