Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

NaturalRearing.com ~ Cranberry Juice Cranberry Juice written by Marina Zacharias Cranberry juice is an old folk remedy that has a long history of usage for preventing 
			and treating urinary-tract infections. The ‘Empire’ boys still consider it to be just another 
			"quack" remedy because it has not been scientifically proven…until now, that is! In a recent study, some 153 elderly women (average age 78.5 years) were randomly 
			assigned to consume 300ml. (about ten ounces) daily of a cranberry juice beverage or 
			a synthetic placebo drink that was similar in taste, appearance, and Vitamin C content. After six months of treatment, women receiving the cranberry juice had 58% fewer 
			urinary-tract infections than did women receiving the placebo. There were some interesting aspects to this particular study. In the past, for example, 
			it was thought that cranberry juice increased the acidity of urine which would make it 
			more difficult for certain bacteria to grow. However, in this study, the urinary acidity 
			was not increased with cranberry juice. Its beneficial effect must therefore be attributed 
			to some other action. We do know that cranberry juice contains relatively large amounts of a compound 
			called "hippuric acid" which is known to have an antibiotic activity. There also appears 
			to be an unidentified substance in cranberry juice that prevents bacteria from binding 
			to the bladder wall. Obviously, if bacteria cannot attach themselves to tissues, they 
			cannot cause and infection. We have had excellent results in using Cranberry concentrate capsules (1,000 mg 
			capsule) for the dogs in preventing reoccurring urinary tract infections and cystitis 
			problems. The concentrate is of course much easier to administer plus it contains 
			no sweeteners or added sugars. For those animals that have chronic reoccurring infections we have obtained stable 
			relief with using a Chinese herbal formulation called Lindera 15. This formula can 
			be used safely for long term use in both dogs and cats. If a bladder infection should occur, in the majority of cases it can be treated easily 
			and quickly by a variety of natural methods, without resorting to continual rounds 
			of antibiotics which can create its own set of problems. (i.e. yeast infections.) To treat an infection BHI Bladder and Inflammation are two homeopathics that 
			work well to relieve symptoms and make the animal more comfortable. They can 
			be given frequently in acute symptoms. The glandular called Albalplex works well 
			in conjunction to clear the problem. It gives direct support to the kidney, liver and 
			urinary tract functions. It also aids the immune system