Connection: close
Server: Nginx / Varnish
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Jan 1970 00:00:00 GMT
ETag: "4121ee-4e54-0"
Vary: Accept-Encoding

Holistic Acupuncture and Herbs HOLISTIC ACUPUNCTURE & HERBAL CENTER HOLISTIC ACUPUNCTURE & HERBAL CENTER Home | About Us | Directions | Contact Us " Experience the Wonders of Natural Healing!" WHAT
                                    IS ACUPUNCTURE ? Acupuncture is the insertion of fine
                                    needles into the body at specific points shown as effective in the treatment of specific health problems. These points have
                                    been mapped by the Chinese over a period of two thousand years. Recently, electromagnetic research has confirmed their locations. ORIGIN OF ACUPUNCTURE Acupuncture is an ancient
                                    Oriental healing art that predates historical records. As many as 5,000 years ago, according to authorities, the Chinese noticed
                                    that pain could be relieved when they rubbed stones against their bodies. It was also discovered that some soldiers wounded
                                    by arrows recovered from long suffered illness. This collection of ideas led to the principle that needles inserted into various
                                    points of the body, when manipulated, could eliminate many diseases. This can be said to be the beginning of acupuncture.
                                    The earliest record of an effective cure through acupuncture treatment, is that Pien Chue of the Warring states period (475-221-
                                    B.C.) applied acupuncture to revive a dying prince already in a coma. HOW DOES ACUPUNCTURE WORK? Acupuncture consists of inserting and manipulating needles into the body at specific points along
                                    meridians. Meridians are pathways in which energy flows through the entire body. (Contrary to popular belief, meridians are
                                    not nerves.)  They are linked to each other, to internal organs, to various connecting tissues of the body, the skin
                                    and even to the outside layer of the body (the aura layer).  Acupuncture points work like the control knob or switch
                                    on a sophisticated piece of electrical equipment. When stimulated, they produce a more effective reflex action, which sends
                                    a message to the related inner organ, nerves, and muscles along the meridian, to awaken and generate the healing mechanisms
                                    within the body, which provide the acupuncturist and Oriental medicine doctor with easy access to the internal organs without
                                    surgery. Without meridian and energy balance, natural healing or good health is not possible. IS ACUPUNCTURE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE? Acupuncture is a safe therapy. Nothing is injected into the body through needles.
                                    It is not addictive or toxic, and it has no adverse side effects. Because of transmittable diseases such as "AIDS"
                                    and "Hepatitis B Virus", there has been a growing concern by the general public as to the possible risk of contamination.
                                    It is important to note that with modern sterilization techniques and the availability of disposable needles, it is virtually
                                    impossible to contract such communicable diseases through acupuncture procedure. The ailments that have been successfully
                                    treated by Acupuncture are as follows: painful disorders of the musculoskeletal system and stiffness or pain in neck, shoulder,
                                    back, knee, elbow, ankle, and wrist. Acupuncture is also effective in the disorders of visceral muscle spasm such as abdominalgia
                                    with diarrhea or constipation. Other conditions frequently alleviated or improved by Acupuncture treatment are headache, migraine,
                                    hyper or hypotension, hyper or hypoglycemia, acute or chronic arthritis, bronchitis, asthma, insomnia, dysmenorrhea, PMS,
                                    ulcers or inflammations of internal organs, anemia, dizziness, tinnitus, allergy, edema, mental and physical stress, etc...
                                    and most medical problems that do not respond to medical or drug treatments. Also, new techniques are said to be effective
                                    in relieving paralysis following cardiovascular accidents or stroke. Acupuncture is effective in eliminating addiction to
                                    drugs, tobacco, and can aide in weight reduction. Email: danielelee@yahoo.com BENEFIT AND DURATION OF ACUPUNCTURE
                                    TREATMENTS Numerous diseases of physiological origin can be alleviated or
                                    cured by Acupuncture. The number of treatments required varies with the severity of the ailment, and many cases of infectious
                                    diseases have been reported to respond well to Acupuncture treatments. The duration of healing begins at the time of first
                                    treatment. Patients may experience ups and downs or changing symptoms during the course of complete recovery. Some patients
                                    who feel better after the first few treatments think they are well and neglect continuing therapy; however, being symptoms
                                    free is not the same as being problem free. Adversely some patients who do not notice results immediately after only a few
                                    treatments, get discouraged and give up without allowing the therapy to offer its full potential to the body's healing
                                    ability. I f you need more information, please don't hesitate to contact us by
                  phone or e-mail. Nashville   (615)332-8351 Clarksville  (931)553-0211 Bowling Green  (270)282-3619 Email: danielelee@yah