Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Brave-Souls.com - Fighting Cancer Around the World Return to brave-souls home page IN MEMORY OF MICHAEL CULBERT By Stanley Cua Email to PINACUA@YAHOO.COM if you wish to have a free copy of the most 
comprehensive book of Dr. Michael Culbert in medical politics condensing many of his 
previous books into the book shown below "Medical Armageddon Update 2000" Michael Culbert passed on September 11 of 2004, a few days after the closing of 32nd Cancer Convention, in Los Angeles 
while I was in China.  I can still remember our lunch together in the third day of the convention and couldn't 
believe that he was physically gone forever after I return to L.A. and heard about his passing.  He will surely be 
remembered as the champion of the proponent on the freedom of choice of the patients to medical treatments.  I have known 
Michael for about 30 years since the laetrile controversy in early 1970s. Michael Culbert was well known and respected in the alternative cancer treatment circle in the United States. 
He had two dreams: the freedom of choice of the patients to medical treatment and a hospital that has all the 
alternative treatments available to the patients.  He was a very practical person, he used to say that people who 
discovered or developed a good treatment should not close their mind to other treatments, a good treatment may be 
successful for the wrong reason or theory proposed by the proponent, some other treatments may be better or synergistic, 
proponents of good treatment should open their mind to accept others.  I will continue his great idea and try to get 
all good alternative treatments together under one roof and to find out which treatments are best for which disease. 
I hope that the proponents of those alternative treatments have similar unselfish idea as Michael's and have the 
humility to accept other good treatments. Michael Culbert (DSc, Medicina Altenativa, 1985; PhD, 1966), was for years chairman emeritus of the Committee for Freedom 
of Choice in Medicine Inc. and founder of the International Council for Health Freedom, has also been long affiliated 
with American Biologics-Mexico SA Medical Center (now International Bio Care Hospital and Medical Center), and the 
world-wide Bradford Research Institute.  For three decades Culbert had been a health-freedom activist, and was the 
author or co-author of about 20 books.  He was the editor of the famous Freedom of Choice in Cancer Therapy magazine 
during the 1970's laetrile controversy.  His best book is probably the Medical Armageddon Update 2000 that condenses 
all his previous knowledge in the fight for the freedom of choice in medical treatment. 
I still have some copies of Medical Armageddon Update 2000, anyone who is 
interested in reading this book can send enough postage, not money, (depending on your location, between 
$2 to $5 post stamp) to Michael Culbert Research Institute, PO Box 7228, Alhambra, CA 91801, I 
will mail you the book free of charge until I exhaust the books in my possession. I hope that if 
Dr. Robert Bradford should happen to read this page he will contact me through email pinacua@yahoo.com or 
MCulbertResearch@yahoo.com or mail me at  Michael Culbert Research Institute, PO Box 7228, Alhambra, CA 91801,
and let me help him organize all the volumes 
of the Freedom of Choice in Cancer Therapy magazine and place them on a CD for the world to appreciate Michael's work and 
dedication to the health-freedom.  Those volumes are real treasure in the information on cancer treatment and 
the laetrile controversy. Below are some of the books written by Dr. Michael Culbert and pictures of Michael, Robert and Carole Bradford, senior Contreras and Navarro in the 
laetrile controversial period. SOME OT