
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 05:03:07 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 04:03:07 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Snakebite - Rattlesnake Bite About.com Cities & Towns Phoenix Phoenix Search Phoenix Things to Do Phoenix Photos Spring Training Share Free Phoenix Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Snakebite One Man's Story of a Rattler Bite, and the Remedies That Helped Him By Judy Hedding , About.com Guide Filed In: Weather, Plants, Animals > Desert Animals and Bugs (Continued from Page 3) Previous Page >> Rattlesnake Bite, The Final Week Pat Moss, whose story this is about his rattlesnake bite, made a list of eighteen remedies to help you heal from a rattlesnake bite.* ice/ice water immersion for six hours (to slow down the venom) drink LOTS of pure water (to flush venom to the kidneys) powdered vitamin C (to detoxify poisons/venom in the body) bromelain concentrate from pineapple (to directly dissolve/disable snake venom: pure protein) aloe vera fresh leaves and concentrate (to heal the snake bite wound and skin, and to detoxify the body) milk thistle (to strengthen the liver, since all toxins go through the liver) echinacea and goldenseal (to strengthen the immune system and to detoxify the body) ABC blood detox (to detoxify the blood) Chinese Pai Yao pills (popular Oriental snake bite remedy) vitamins and minerals, including zinc, vitamins E and B12 (to promote muscle/tissue healing and repair) Sea Silver and colloidal silver 5 ppm solution (for vitamins and minerals and as an anti-bacterial) castor oil (to dress the wound, and to act as anti-bacterial and laxative) fresh red grapes and red grape juice (for easy-to-digest nutrition and to increase immune response) fresh pineapple (venom solvent and digestive enzymes) vitamin A from fresh baby carrots (for skin healing) prunes (for natural laxative) chicken broth (for easy-to-digest nutrition) Prayers from dear friends (most potent remedy!) Mr. Moss' experience with a rattlesnake bite has led him to share his opinions about natural remedies that he believes helped him to recover from the rattlesnake bite.* 1. Bromelain and papain. The snake venom molecule (and most snake and insect bite venoms) are composed of three-dimensional, nearly 100% pure, protein. The strongest known natural solvents for protein molecules are bromelain and papain. Bromelain is found in pineapple. And papain is present in papaya fruit. Both pure bromelain and papain are available, in concentrated form, at local health stores. Side note: Intestinal cancer is the most prevalent form of cancer in the USA. For carnivores (meat eaters), a slice of fresh pineapple several times per week will help to cleanse meat-waste from the large intestine. I am using 2400 GDU/500 mg strength bromelain capsules ($15/bottle). And also a bromelain/ papain/protease/amylase/catalase/lipase blend for inflammation recovery called Repair  ($30/bottle). I'm taking about eight bromelain capsules daily. I also make a castor oil/bromelain compress for my foot, twice daily. Bromelain is the active ingredient in meat tenderizer, but many brands of meat tenderizer also contain harmful salt and sugar. 2. Echinacea. This famous natural herb stimulates the immune system. It is mentioned as a snake bite remedy in many older herb books. I am using 500 mg strength echinacea capsules ($15/bottle), and I'm taking about eight echinacea capsules daily. 3. Aloe Vera. This is, of course, is the most famous remedy for skin burns, skin inflammation, and abrasion. Taken internally, it helps detoxify the body. It is gentle, yet very effective and fast acting, to flush poisons from the body. I am using leaves from live aloe vera (externally), and also a quart of concentrated aloe vera extract (internally). I'm drinking about 6 ounces of aloe vera extract daily. Next Page >> More Natural Remedies for a Rattlesnake Bite *Disclaimer: This list is not endorsed or approved by Judy Hedding or About, Inc. It is a list of items that Mr. Moss used. Before using a snakebite kit or making any changes in your diet, it is recommended that you consult with your physician. Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next Arizona Snakes Rattlesnakes: What You Need to Know How to Treat a Rattlesnake Bite Pictures of Arizona Snakes More Related Resources Arizona Ghost Towns How to Read a Vitamin Label Vitamins and Minerals Take This Poll Do You Take Vitamins or Minerals? Related Articles Treat a Rattlesnake Bite - What To Do If Your are Bitten by an Arizona Snak... Africa's Most Dangerous Snakes - Africa's Most Venomous Snakes Treating and Preventing Venomous Snake Bites Bites, Stings, Travel, Homeopathy Snakes in Tennessee Judy Hedding Phoenix Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches papain bromelain snake venom natural solvents red grape juice natural laxative protein molecules Explore Phoenix Must Reads Phoenix Readers' Choice Awards February Events in Phoenix Arizona Tax Forms and Help Arizona Renaissance Festival Featured Event: Sportsmen’s Exposition Most Popular Top 15 Phoenix Attractions Average Monthly Temperatures February Events Scottsdale Arabian Horse Show Arizona Sales Tax Rates Free Phoenix Newsletter! Sign Up By Category Attractions and Events Food and Drink Sports and Recreation Moving to Phoenix Phoenix Facts and Fiction Cities, Government, Laws Weather, Plants, Animals Jobs and Employment Homes and Rentals Schools and Colleges Lifestyles and Families Shopping, Services, Media Maps, Driving and Transport Resorts, Hotels, Motels Phoenix Photo Galleries Phoenix About.com Cities & Towns Phoenix Weather, Plants, Animals Desert Animals and Bugs Snakebite - Rattlesnake Bite> Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.