
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 01:39:35 GMT
Server: Jetty(6.1.25)
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Expires: Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:00 GMT
Set-Cookie: view_tracker=682;Path=/;Expires=Tue, 12-Mar-2013 01:39:35 GMT
Connection: close

Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Osteopathic Manipulation | FoundHealth Sign In Sign Up Help Contact Us Find Home Health Challenges Treatments Contributors About Us Blog Low Back Pain and Sciatica What is it? Overview Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Prevention Resources View All 38 Treatments Medicine Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acetaminophen Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Analgesics Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Disk Replacement Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Diskectomy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Laminectomy (Spinal Decompression) Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Muscle Relaxants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and NSAIDs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Nucleoplasty Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Spinal Fusion Herbs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Boswellia Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Cayenne Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chondroitin Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Comfrey Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Devil's Claw Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Ginger Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Proteolytic Enzymes Low Back Pain and Sciatica and St. John's Wort Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Turmeric Low Back Pain and Sciatica and White Willow Diet Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Glucosamine Body Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acupuncture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Alexander Technique Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Balneotherapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chiropractic Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Exercise Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Hatha Yoga Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Losing Weight Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Magnet therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Massage Therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Osteopathic Manipulation Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Physical Therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Prolotherapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Resting Mind Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and biofeedback Spirit Answers FoundHealth will send you weekly updates on new content in this area. You can opt out at any time. The number to the right of the Follow button shows how many people are currently following this topic. Low Back Pain and Sciatica > Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment: Body > Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Osteopathic Manipulation Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Click Wheel to discover your Treatment options Sign up to receive your FREE toolkit from Dr. Mark Hyman Tune your body now! Subscribe Now! We never spam or sell your e-mail People Found These Useful... Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Boswellia Want Answers? Ask Question FoundHealth on Facebook FoundHealth on Twitter Ask Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Osteopathic Manipulation Written by sshowalter , FoundHealth . Overview | Effect of Osteopathic Manipulation on Low Back Pain and Sciatica | Research Evidence on Osteopathic Manipulation | Side Effects and Warnings | References | Treatments Tried or prescribed Osteopathic Manipulation for Low Back Pain and Sciatica?  
														Share your experience. Have you? I've Tried it 0 I'm a professional and I've Prescribed it 0 0 people                                                         have tried Osteopathic Manipulation 0 people                                                         have prescribed Osteopathic Manipulation Share your experience with this treatment. The community appreciates your insights. I would recommend it I would not recommend it I have no recommendation Preview Post Osteopathic manipulation (OM) is a form of treatment related to chiropractic manipulation , but it tends to use gentle, extended movements (low velocity, high amplitude) rather than the quick, short, cracking movements of chiropractic. Ask Effect of Osteopathic Manipulation on Low Back Pain and Sciatica Osteopathic Manipulation has shown some promise for the treatment of sciatica and general low back pain. 15,20,40 Osteopathic manipulation corrects structural misalignment in the back, which should alleviate much if not all of the low back pain and/or sciatica (assuming the cause of the pain was structural in nature.) Read more details about Osteopathic Manipulation . Did you know... precautions after low laminectomy surgery Answered by sheetal110990 -
                    1 answer Ask Research Evidence on Osteopathic Manipulation However, one of the best-designed trials failed to find it a superior alternative to conventional medical care. In this 12-week study of 178 individuals, osteopathic manipulation proved no more effective than standard treatment for back pain. 40 Another study failed to find OM more effective than sham manipulation. 55 However, many studies do not follow patients through many treatments, nor do they allow for the treatment protocol to be individualized depending on the individual's specific low back pain or sciatica needs.  For the future, research may need to move away from the "double-blind" and "placebo-controlled" structure to allow for the tailored and individualized treatment plans necessary for the effective use of osteopathic manipulation and osteopathic medicine. Ask Side Effects and Warnings Safety of Osteopathic Manipulation Most forms of OM, because of their gentle nature, are believed to be quite safe. However, mild short-term pain may occur immediately following treatment. 1 In addition, some osteopathic practitioners use the high-velocity thrusts common to chiropractic and might, therefore, incur some slight safety risks. (See the Chiropractic article for more information.) Ask References Knebl JA, Shores JH, Gamber RG, Gray WT, Herron KM. Improving functional ability in the elderly via the Spencer technique, an osteopathic manipulative treatment: a randomized, controlled trial. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 102(7):387-96. Koes BW, Assendelft WJ, van der Heijden GJ, et al. Spinal manipulation for low back pain. An updated systematic review of randomized clinical trials. Spine. 1996;21:2860-2873. Newswanger DL, Patel AT, Ogle A. Osteopathic medicine in the treatment of low back pain. Am Fam Physician. 2000;62:2414-2415. Andersson GB, Lucente T, Davis AM, et al. A comparison of osteopathic spinal manipulation with standard care for patients with low back pain. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:1426-1431. Licciardone JC, Stoll ST, Fulda KG, et al. Osteopathic manipulative treatment for chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial. Spine. 2003;28:1355-1362. Click Here to See All 38 Treatments for Low Back Pain and Sciatica FoundHealth has 38 treatments for Low Back Pain and Sciatica! See all Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment options and start building your care plan today. Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Spinal Fusion Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acetaminophen Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Comfrey Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Ginger Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chondroitin Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Glucosamine Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Resting Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Alexander Technique Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and biofeedback Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment: Spirit Share 0 Comments No one has made any comments yet.  Be the first! Your Comment Preview Post Comment Preview Post Comment Link to Existing article Search Home | About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy © 2012
 FoundHealth, Inc. All rights reserved. FoundHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Receive weekly updates on topics of your interest. Share your experiences on treatments that you have tried or prescribed. Ask or Answer a question within our community. Create a FoundHealth Contributor profile to highlight your health expertise. As a welcome gift, we will send you the complete e-book Give Yourself a Biologic Tune-Up by Dr. Mark Hyman . Already have an account? Sign In ! Email Address * We promise that we will not spam or share your information. Password * At least 6 characters Confirm Password * Enter code shown * I agree to the FoundHealth Terms o