<0.01). Higher pack-years of smoking were associated with significantly lower aMT6s levels (never smoker versus 15+ pack-years, aMT6s = 17.4 ng/mg versus 12.3 ng/mg creatinine; P for trend, 0.04). We also observed a positive association between parity and aMT6s levels (P for trend, <0.01), but no other reproductive factors nor any of the sex hormones (estradiol, progesterone, estrone, estrone sulfate, dehydroepiandrostenedione, dehydroepiandrostenedione sulfate, testosterone, and androstenedione), as measured either in the luteal or the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, were significantly associated with aMT6s. In conclusion, higher age, BMI, and heavy smoking were significantly related to lower levels of melatonin, whereas parity was significantly associated with higher aMT6s levels. Melatonin levels may be one mechanism through which these factors influence the development of cancer, but more studies are needed to elucidate these mechanisms definitively. J Hypertens. 2010 Mar;28(3):446-51. Urinary melatonin and risk of incident hypertension among young women. Forman JP, Curhan GC, Schernhammer ES. Channing Laboratory, Department of Medicine, 181 Longwood Avenue, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. jforman@partners.org OBJECTIVE : Administered in supraphysiologic doses, the hormone melatonin may reduce blood pressure, particularly nocturnal blood pressure. However, whether lower physiologic levels of melatonin are an independent risk factor for the development of hypertension has never been reported. METHODS : We examined the association between first morning urine melatonin levels and the risk of developing hypertension among 554 young women without baseline hypertension who were followed for 8 years. Cox proportional hazards models were adjusted for age, BMI, physical activity, alcohol intake, smoking status, urinary creatinine, and family history of hypertension. RESULTS : During 8 years of follow-up, a total of 125 women developed hypertension. The relative risk for incident hypertension among women in the highest quartile of urinary melatonin (>27.0 ng/mg creatinine) as compared with the lowest quartile (<10.1 ng/mg creatinine) was 0.49 (95% confidence interval 0.28-0.85, P < 0.001). CONCLUSION : First morning melatonin levels are independently and inversely associated with incident hypertension; low melatonin production may be a pathophysiologic factor in the development of hypertension. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Nov;22(11):1009-15. Daily profiles of salivary and urinary melatonin and steroids in healthy prepubertal boys. Touitou Y, Auzéby A, Camus F, Djeridane Y. Faculté de Médecine Pierre et Marie Curie, Service de Biochimie Médicale et Biologie Moléculaire and INSERM UMRS 975, Paris, France. yvan.touitou@upmc.fr The aim of this study was to assess the circadian hormonal profile of two circadian markers, melatonin and cortisol, as well as other steroids in prepubertal boys (Tanner stage I). Nine volunteer healthy prepubertal boys aged 10.8 +/- 0.11 years participated in this study. Concentrations of daily salivary and urinary hormones were quantified around 24-hours, every 3 hours, in daytime samples (collected between 07.00 h +/- 30 min and 21.00 h +/- 30 min) and night-time samples (collected between 21.00 h +/- 30 min and 07.00 h +/- 30 min). Significant differences (p < 0.01) were found between day- and nighttime secretion of salivary melatonin and urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin, whereas no significant differences were found between day- and nighttime secretion of salivary and urinary cortisol nor between day- and nighttime secretion of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids (17-OHCS). The circadian profiles of salivary melatonin and cortisol showed large amplitude with a peak occurring at night (approximately 03.00 h) for melatonin and in the early morning (between 06.00 and 09.00 h) for cortisol. The curve patterns of the urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin and steroids (free cortisol and 17-OHCS) were coherent with data on saliva. The pattern of salivary androstenedione and testosterone were undetectable due to the very low concentrations of these steroids in the saliva of the prepubertal children. A strong significant positive correlation was observed between the daily salivary melatonin levels and the daily urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin excretion (R = 0.968, p < 0.001), and between free urinary cortisol and urinary 17-OHCS (R = 0.733, p = 0.025). The salivary and urinary hormones studied were independent of body mass index. This study shows the relevance of salivary cortisol and melatonin, although lower than in plasma, in testing adrenal and pineal function as markers of circadian rhythms. The data are of interest for the diagnosis and treatment of chronobiological disorders in prepubertal children. Inserisci i ter