
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 07:11:20 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.drtodds.com/foot-care-blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Dr. Todd's Foot Care Blog   » swollen ankles Home | Foot Care Blog | Contact Us Shopping Cart New Arrivals Shop by Condition Shop by Brand On Sale Archives July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 March 2011 February 2011 December 2010 September 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 October 2009 September 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 Categories Ankle Pain (2) Arch Pain (1) Athlete's Foot (1) Ball of Foot Pain (2) Morton's Neuroma (1) Blisters (1) Bunions (1) Corns & Calluses (1) Diabetes (3) Diabetic Foot Care (2) Foot Care (1) Fungal Toenails (2) Hammertoes (1) Heel Pain (3) Dry, Cracked Heels (1) Haglund's Deformity (1) Heel Spur (1) Ingrown Toenails (2) Neuropathy (1) Orthopedic Shoes (2) Shin Splints (1) Swelling/Edema (2) Swollen Feet & Ankles (5) Venous Insufficiency (1) Posts Tagged ‘swollen ankles’ Support Hose Saturday, July 3rd, 2010 Support hose deliver a squeezing to the leg that is tightest at the feet & ankles and gradually decreases up the leg, this is known as gradient compression. This compression is measured in mmHg (millimeters of mercury) and provides two main benefits. Compression reduces and helps prevent swelling Helps the blood flow more quickly up the leg toward the heart Support hose (also known as compression stockings) range from light compression (generally 8-15mmHg) to firm compression (generally 30-40mmHg). Below are some of the indications for using compression hosiery: Tired, Aching Legs Standing or sitting for long periods of time can cause blood to pool at the ankles and have a hard time returning causing legs to ache and feel tired. 8-15mmHg compression stockings give a gentle squeeze at the ankles and up the leg to get your blood flowing back toward the heart. Helps relieve the tired, aching feeling in your legs. Swelling/Edema Enlarged ankles/calves/feet. Painless swelling may be caused from medications, injury, vein problems, heart problems or other reasons. Prolonged swelling or painful swelling of the foot or leg should not be ignored and your physician should always be consulted. Mild swelling is often managed with 15-20mmHg of compression. Moderate or severe swelling may require higher compression and your physician should be consulted. Varicose Veins Varicose veins can be mild to severe. They are caused from pooling of blood in a damaged vein. Symptoms include bulging veins, aching and discomfort in the leg, heaviness of the leg and/or inflammation of superficial veins. 20-30 mmHg is the most commonly used level of compression for varicose veins. The compression level that is best for you will depend on the severity of your symptoms and you should consult your physician before wearing support hosiery with of compression 20 mmHg and greater. Venous Insufficiency Damaged valves in the veins can cause blood to pool in the leg and lead to swelling and pain. This condition is called chronic venous insufficiency which can lead to skin damage and leg ulcers. Symptoms include varicose veins, daily swelling of the leg, skin color changes, especially around and above the ankles, and fragile skin that easily breaks down. Compression of 30-40mmHg (generally knee length) is the most commonly used to manage this condition. Consult your physician before wearing any compression 20 mmHG and greater. Tags: Compression Hose , edema , hosiery , Leg Swelling , support hose , Support Stockings , swollen ankles , Swollen feet Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » What are Support Hose? Wednesday, March 3rd, 2010 Support hose (also known as compression stockings) are designed to deliver a squeezing to the leg that is greatest at the foot and ankle. The degree of squeezing or compression gradually decreases up the leg – this is called gradient compression and is measured in mmHg (millimeters of mercury). Support hose provide two main benefits. Compression reduces and helps prevent swelling, also called edema. And compression helps the blood to flow more quickly up the leg toward the heart. Please consult your physician, podiatrist or health care specialist before purchasing support hose, especially for compression of 20mmHg or greater. Support hose range from light compression (generally 8-15mmHg) to firm compression (generally 30-40mmHg). Common Indications (there are other indications as well, please consult your physician): Tired, Aching Legs – Standing or sitting for long periods of time can cause blood to pool at the ankles and have a hard time returning causing legs to ache and feel tired. 8-15mmHg compression stockings give a gentle squeeze at the ankles and up the leg to get your blood flowing back toward the heart. Helps relieve the tired, aching feeling in your legs. Swelling/Edema – Enlarged ankles/calves/feet. Painless swelling may be caused from medications, injury, vein problems, heart problems or other reasons. Prolonged swelling or painful swelling of the foot or leg should not be ignored and your physician should always be consulted. Mild swelling is often managed with 15-20mmHg of compression. Moderate or severe swelling may require higher compression and your physician should be consulted. Varicose Veins – Varicose veins can be mild to severe. They are caused from pooling of blood in a damaged vein. Symptoms include bulging veins, aching and discomfort in the leg, heaviness of the leg and/or inflammation of superficial veins. 20-30 mmHg is the most commonly used level of compression for varicose veins. The compression level that is best for you will depend on the severity of your symptoms and you should consult your physician before wearing compression 20 mmHg and greater. Venous Insufficiency - Damaged valves in the veins can cause blood to pool in the leg and lead to swelling and pain. This condition is called chronic venous insufficiency which can lead to skin damage and leg ulcers. Symptoms include varicose veins, daily swelling of the leg, skin color changes, especially around and above the ankles, and fragile skin that easily breaks down. Compression of 30-40mmHg (generally knee length) is the most commonly used to manage this condition. Consult your physician before wearing any compression 20 mmHg and greater. Tags: Compression Hose , Compression Stockings , Compressions Hosiery , edema , Leg Swelling , support socks , Support Stockings , swollen ankles , Swollen feet , Varicose Veins , Venous Insufficiency Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » Swollen Feet, Ankles and Legs – Venous Insufficiency? Tuesday, December 30th, 2008 Venous Insufficiency The blood vessels that bring blood from the heart to the rest of the body are called arteries and the blood vessels that return blood back to the heart are called veins. Venous insufficiency occurs when the leg veins cannot pump enough blood back to the heart. In the upright position, blood in the leg veins must go against gravity to return to the heart. To accomplish this, the leg muscles squeeze the veins in the legs and feet to help move blood back to the heart. One-way valves in the veins keep blood flowing in the right direction. When leg muscles relax, the valves inside the veins close. Some of the more common causes of venous insufficiency include high blood pressure, deep vein thrombosis and phlebitis. The symptoms of venous insufficiency include swollen ankles and legs as well as the feet. The legs may feel heavy, tired, restless, or achy. Pain while walking or shortly after stopping may also be associated with venous insufficiency. Varicose veins, which are swollen, twisted veins that you can see through the skin, may also develop. For mild cases of venous insufficiency, a physician may recommend support hose . Support hose (also known as compression stockings) are elastic stockings that squeeze the veins and stop excess blood from flowing backward. Someone with venous insufficiency may need to wear support hose daily for the rest of their life. Losing weight if one is overweight or maintaining an ideal body weight, along with avoiding long periods of standing and by occasionally elevating your legs, can also help reduce swelling in the legs and ankles. More serious cases of venous insufficiency generally are treated with injections or surgery. Tags: Chronic Venous Insufficiency , Compression Stockings , edema , support hose , swollen ankles , Swollen feet , Swollen Legs , Varicose Veins , Venous Insufficiency Posted in Swelling/Edema | No Comments » Swollen Feet? Tuesday, September 23rd, 2008 Nonpainful swelling of the feet and ankles (also known as edema) is a common problem, particularly in older people. It may affect both legs and may include the calves or even the thighs. Foot, ankle and leg swelling can occur for many different reasons/conditions.  Long periods of standing, long airplane flights or car rides, being overweight, increased age and trauma are few common reasons for swelling. Varicose veins, venous insufficiency and blood clots are other reasons that may cause swelling. Additionally, swollen legs may be a sign of a systemic problem such as heart or kidney failure or a sign of a clot or leg infection – all of which need to b examined and treated by a physician.  Certain medications can also cause swelling in the legs and feet.  Exercising your legs to help pump  the fluid from your legs back to your heart, keeping your legs elevated above your heart while lying down and wearing support hose are a few ways to help treat the swelling and the pain that may be associated with swelling.  However, you should always consult your physician to determine the cause of swelling in your leg and for the most appropriate treatment for your condition. Tags: compression hosiery , edema , support hose , support socks , swollen ankles , Swollen feet Posted in Swollen Feet & Ankles | No Comments » Policies Payment Options Shipping Return Policy Terms of Use / Disclaimer Privacy More Information Home About Us Foot Care Blog Helpful Foot Care Resources Customer Service Email: customerservice@drtodds.com Toll-Free: 877-637-8633 Contact Us © Copyright Dr. Todd's 2011. All Rights Reserved. * Free shipping a