< back Managing and Avoiding Back Pain Right behind the common cold lies the "bad back" as the second most common cause of workplace absenteeism. But unlike the cold, most back problems are treatable and curable. And that's good news to the 80% of you who will be suffering from lower back pain at some point in your adult lives. So sit up straight and take a look at some of the causes and solutions to those nagging back problems. Where did I get my bad back from? Lower back pain can occur in people who are overweight, in poor physical shape, have poor posture or are compelled to sit or stand for long periods of time. Muscle strain is another cause of a troubled back, either from lifting something that is too heavy or by lifting objects incorrectly. Many pregnant women also develop lower back pain due to the extra weight that they support during pregnancy. What are the most serious causes of back pain? Osteoarthritis (a 'wear-and-tear' condition), fractured vertebrae (the literal 'broken back') and the 'slipped' or herniated disc are all serious medical conditions which must be treated by a qualified physician. What can be done to try and relieve back pain? Whatever you suspect to be the cause of your pain, the first step in treating it should be to see your doctor. A typical course of treatment for the pain of a muscle spasm or back injury would be the following: Bed rest for a day or two Local application of either heat or cold, depending on the type of injury A massage of the area, especially for a muscle spasm An over-the-counter pain medication such as Advil®, Robaxacet®, an anti-inflammatory drug or muscle relaxant An over-the-counter muscle relaxant such as Robaxacet® After the initial symptoms are treated, your doctor may show you some exercises designed to strengthen the back muscles. What can I do to try to avoid back pain? Proper lifting techniques and the right exercises can help both those who have never experienced back pain, as well as chronic sufferers. Here are a few tips broken down (no pun intended) by category: Lifting Always, always, always bend at the knees and not at the waist Never twist while lifting Avoid lifting anything above shoulder level Get help with lifting heavy objects Posture Stand with one foot elevated and shift positions often Walk with erect posture and wear comfortable shoes Sit with both feet on the floor and your knees at least as high as your hips and firmly against the back of the chair When driving move your seat close enough to allow your feet to reach the pedals easily and drive with both hands on the wheel Work Out The Kinks Do your exercises every day Lose weight if necessary Take breaks often to avoid overworking your back For more information on back pain visit www.backrelief.com also from the makers of Advil. CLOSE Product List | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Site Map Pfizer Canada | Accessibility Statement | Access Keys © Copyright Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, a division of Pfizer Canada Inc. All righ