<http://www.mind-mart.com/?p=1940>; rel=shortlink
Set-Cookie: bb2_screener_=1331157259+128.2.207.79; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural Remedies for Cold and Flu
 | Holistic Health Home Aromatherapy Arthritis Relief Hypnotherapy Positive Thinking Vision Contact Mind Mart Holistic Health You are here: Home / Cold/Flu / Natural Remedies for Cold and Flu Natural Remedies for Cold and Flu By Holistic Health 6 Comments Why are we so susceptible to colds and flu during the winter months? Your grandmother might say it’s because you don’t dress warmly enough, but that’s not true. Part of the reason is air quality. We spend more time indoors when it’s cold, and as a result we spend more time breathing stale indoor air and passing germs back and forth. Also, our homes are better insulated and air exchange may be less than ideal. Our diets are partly to blame as well. In days gone by we ate locally grown seasonal food. Nowadays, we eat out of season foods and never wonder where they came from. Colds and flu are highly contagious respiratory illnesses caused by viruses. More than 200 types of viruses cause colds with more than half being caused by rhinovirus . Many of the viruses are seasonal, so you can expect to catch at least one cold per season. Influenza (flu) is caused by two types of viruses—Type A and Type B. Almost all cases of flu are Type A, and it can infect birds and other animals. It’s the type of flu that causes worldwide outbreaks. Type B infects only humans and causes local outbreaks. LinkedTube A cold usually starts with minor throat irritation and nasal stuffiness followed soon thereafter with sneezing, nasal discharge, sore throat, headache and possible mild muscular aches and pains and cough. Colds usually last about a week, but may last longer in the elderly, children and people in poor health. Traditional remedies include – Drinking fluids Bed rest Pain medication Hot beverages (chicken soup) Spicy foods (clears mucus) Green, orange, & red foods (Vitamins A & C) Zinc lozenges Nasals Strips Decongestants (short term use) Colds and flu share many of the same symptoms; however, the flu is more severe. It hits suddenly and hard. Symptoms are fatigue, fever, dry cough, chills, muscle aches, severe headache, eye pain, and sore throat. It takes longer to get over a flu than a cold – sometimes up to six weeks. In Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), colds and flu are viewed as a wind attack . TCM holds that wind has combined with another pathogen — dryness, dampness, heat, or cold — to attack the body. For natural treatment of colds and flu, consider the following — Acupuncture Herbs, nutrients, minerals Zinc Small particle colloidal silver Elderberry Olive leaf extract Homeopathy Avoid alcohol, fried foods, sugars Whole Body Vibration for kidney & lung chi One complication of flu is pneumonia which is a serious illness. If you have severe shortness of breath with the flu, get to the hospital. Even with pneumonia there are natural antibiotics such as oregano. You just need to find a holistic practitioner. Many take Vitamin C for a cold. Moderate doses may be helpful, but too much can wash calcium out of the bone. The South African herb umcka works exceptionally well. Vitamin E (peanut butter, leafy green vegetables, fish, whole grains) has been shown in some studies to help. Since both the cold and flu are caused by a virus, there are no cures to speak of. Instead, the best prevention is to take care of your health by eating a diet that strengthens your immune system. Remember, viruses hate a healthy body. You may also like: Overview of Urinary Tract Infections Colon Cleansing For Weight Loss The Language of Chamomile Benefits of Herbal Toothpaste [Translate] Filed Under: Cold/Flu Tagged With: colds and flu , colds and flu remedy Comments windyridge says: Actually being inside in stale stuffy air is not the main reason we get flu in the winter. I just read a study that showed that the reason we get flu when we do is because of air temperature and humidity. In fact, the experts say that you are more likely to get the flu on the way into work than while you are actually in the building. This is because the flu loves cold temps and very low humidity. As the temperature and humidity rises, the virus becomes less and less virulent. Tony Isaacs says: For my own take on avoiding and beating the flu: http://www.tbyil.com/flu.htm daddydoctor says: As a dad and a doctor, I find this a very scary topic.  I used to think that as long as my patient’s or I dosed the children’s cold & cough medications right, then everything would be OK.  But when I researched this further, it turns out that children have died from “over dose” of ALL THE MAJOR CHILDRENS COLD AND COUGH MEDICINES even when given the correct dose ( http://bit.ly/ehBn1m ). Here are a few interesting facts: 1.  Last October 2007, the drug companies promised the FDA that they would change all their labeling to say “do not use” for children under the age of 2, but I was just in the store last week, and a number of packages still had the old labeling! 2.  The FDA reviewed safety and effectiveness data this last fall and its expert panel said that “right now the current cold & cough medications should not be given to children under 6.” Here is a link to the FDA’s minutes, “http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/ac/07/minutes/2007-4323m1-Final.pdf”, see page 6.  The FDA made a public advisory in January 2008 about never using it for children under 2, because the Drug companies are fighting them on the panels ruling to never use cold and cough medications on children 2 to 6.  Since these drugs were previously allowed by the FDA, the FDA is forced to go though “due process” before they are willing to make an official public statement about never giving these medications to children 2 to 6. 3.  The number of infant deaths attributed to cold and cough medicines is dramatically underreported.  New research published in the Journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics demonstrated that there were at least “10 unexpected infant deaths that were associated with cold-medication” in 2006 alone in the state of Arizona.  Extrapolated over the US and Canadian population, that would be over 500 deaths a year associated with cold-medication! ( http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/cgi/content/abstract/122/2/e318 ) The thing that the drug companies don’t want anyone to know is that these medications never underwent the rigorous safety and effectiveness studies modern medications have to go though, they we grandfathered in the early 1970’s because at that time experts felt like they seemed to work, and they seemed safe enough. Interestingly, some researchers from Penn State have shown that Buckwheat honey is better then the OTC drugs for children’s cough.  There is a web site that talks about this, and gives lots of research to help parents be better informed about how to help their kids.  Check out http://www.honeydontcough.com/ -Daddydoctor windyridge says: Daddydoctor, I knew a little about the kids and cold remedies but I didn’t know about the buckwheat honey. I think it’s appalling that the FDA now exists solely for the drug companies and the people’s well being be damned. windyridges last blog post.. Palin is Useless Ed from Natural Health says: My personal remedies include boosting my vitamin c intake, as well as taking some oregano oil. That stuff will literally stop most viruses in their tracks. Colloidal silver can also help, but you have to have a good source before drinking it. .-= Ed @ Natural Health´s last blog .. The Health Benefits of Oregano Oil =-. James says: Its always good to know there are natural ways to cure physical problems. Thank you for sharing. James invites you to read . . . Business Banners Speak Your Mind Cancel reply Name * Email * Website you MUST enable javascript to be able to comment Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser. You can add a link to follow you on twitter if you put your username in this box. Only needs to be added once (unless you change your username). No http or @ This site uses premium CommentLuv Preumium which allows you to put your keywords with your name if you have had 3 approved comments. Use your real name and then @ your keywords (maximum of 3) Google+ RSS Twitter Subscribe Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Topics Addiction Air Quality Allergies Anxiety Articles Aromatherapy Art Astral/Lucid Dreaming Ayurveda Back Health Biofeedback Carnival Cold/Flu Contest Cosmetics Depression & Anxiety Articles Detoxification Featured Feng Shui Free eCourse Green Living Healthy Eating Herbal Supplements Herbs for Health Articles Holistic Healing Articles Holistic Health Holistic Health Products Housekeeping Intimacy Light Therapy Mandala Massage Meditation Mindset Oral Hygiene Pet Pilates Skin Care Sleep Spirituality Stress Management Articles Water Yoga Popular Natural Cures For Uterine Fibroids - 5,924 views Symptoms of Kidney Disease - 4,387 views Natural Cures for Ear Aches and Ear Infections - 3,869 views Home Cooked vs. Fast Food - 3,544 views Boil, Boil, Toil and Trouble - 3,198 views Natural Remedies For Allergies - 1,791 views Dangers of Wi-Fi - 1,695 views Dealing With Food Allergies - 1,636 views Flatulence: Herbs For Gas - 1,561 views Symptoms of Food Allergies - 1,439 views Recent Posts Is It Really Clean If I Only Use This? - 197 views Holistic Eating Tips - 151 views Benefits of A Detox and Cleanse - 312 views Hydrotherapy for Personal Development - 273 views Herbal Remedy Options - 244 views Latest Tweets Defining Food Allergies http://t.co/ovaYYvLk #holistic about 40 mins ago Alpine Caveman Cookies: Healthy, Gluten-free, High-protein, Paleolithic (1 Bag of 12 Cookies). #paleo http://t.co/YMMmB7yp about 45 mins ago The Lawn Habit That's Killing Your Dog - http://t.co/qnvpnERJ #lawn #dog about 51 mins ago Holistic Health Tips Books About Health What Is the Portfolio Diet? What Is Hydrosol? Fibroid Cure Vitamin Supplements - Who Needs 'em? What Are Bitters? Natural Perfume The Questioning Mind Reiki: An Alternative Health Juggernaut Health Benefits of Fermented Vegetables Holistic Health Tips Colon Hydrotherapy - Benefits and Protocols Tea Time Properties of Essential Oils Are You Overeating? Natural Supplements For Arthritis Love Potions Cross Reactivity and Food Allergies What Is Kelp? The Paleo Diet and Cholesterol How Vitamin D May Be Used to Treat Disease Return to top of page Copyright © 2012 Lifestyle Theme · Genesis Framework by StudioPress · WordPress · Affiliate Disclosure · Privacy Policy · Log in powered by Conte