<http://www.generalhealth911.com/?p=10571>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Effective And Simple Asthma Home Remedies | Generalhealth911.com Generalhealth911.com - Colon cleanse section, Asthma Section Effective And Simple Asthma Home Remedies Effective And Simple asthma Home Remedies Article  by John Handson Asthma is a respiratory disease that makes breathing difficult, particularly while exhaling. Pollens, allergens, irritants and bacteria can prompt an asthmatic attack. These include diet that causes allergy and environmental factors such as dust, dampness, smoke etc. asthma home remedies can prove to be very useful and help to prevent an asthma attack. Here are few effective and simple asthma home remedies that can provide the much needed relief from the symptoms of asthma attacks: Lemon and Water: Lemon and water are known to restrain purifying properties. Water flushes out the toxic substances and purifies the blood, whereas lemon or lime has anti-inflammatory, antiseptic and expectorant agents that can easily break-down mucus. Figs: Fig, a fruit that helps to heal many illnesses, is also beneficial in asthma. Figs make the patient feel comfortable by depleting the phlegm. Clean 2-3 figs thoroughly with lukewarm water and soak in water overnight and have it first thing in the morning. Bananas: Bananas provide fast remedy for serious attacks. Heat a ripe banana in the microwave or on the stove, sprinkle black pepper powder on it and eat. This will open the air ways temporarily and allow free-flow of air which will help to subside the pain from an asthma attack. Though it is only a short term treatment; bananas offer one of the best asthma home remedies for instant relief. Garlic: Garlic contains natural anti-inflammatory agents that aid in treating asthma. It also reduces the quantity of mucous generated in the bronchial tubes. 1-2 garlic cloves can be chewed daily or garlic juice can be added to other vegetable juices and consumed. Honey: Honey effectively boosts the immune systems of the body which aids to treat and avoid asthma attacks. During an asthma attack, one can breathe in the vapors of honey by placing the jar under the nose. Alternatively, consuming a teaspoon of honey 3-4 times a day can alleviate the problem of asthma. It can also be added to a beverage. Coffee: The caffeine content in coffee works like the over the counter medicines, which aids to open the air passages of an asthma patient. Consuming 1-2 cups of coffee can reduce the asthma symptoms such as breathlessness and wheezing. Mustard Oil and Camphor: Rub the mixture of mustard oil and camphor on the chest if before going to sleep or if you experience breathing problems. Mustard oil infiltrates the skin and breaks down the phlegm which helps to ease asthma attacks. This mixture should not be taken internally. This is one of the most soothing asthma home remedies. Other Home Remedies: Additional effectual asthma home remedies comprise of bishop’s weed which acts like an expectorant. Indian gooseberry that fortifies the immunity power, bitter gourd root that sustains antiviral properties and drumstick leaves which contain antibacterial properties. All of these are highly rich in vitamin C and can be used to treat asthma attacks. Other Preventive Methods: Avoid excessive eating before going to sleep as it may prompt an asthma attack. Try as eat at least 2-3 hours before bedtime. Steer clear of cigarette smoke or second hand smoke as well as smoke from wood-burning stoves and fireplaces. Wrap a scarf or wear a face mask if the weather is cold. Refrain from breathing in the cold air that is discharged from the freezer. Avoid keeping animals with fur as pet. Keep The Home Clean: Change the air conditioner and furnace filters each month to prevent recirculation of dust. Opt for latex pillows that are allergy-free rather than feather pillows. Additionally, use dust-resistant covers on mattresses and furniture. Keep your home neat and clean to minimize the chances of an asthma attack. These were some of the effectual asthma home remedies that can be employed to obtain relief from asthma. Apart from these remedies, make a note of the factors like allergens, foods etc that triggers your asthma symptoms and aggravates the illness and try to evade them. asthma attacks are extremely uncomforting, but with few simple asthma home remedies and safety measures; you can easily keep asthma attacks at bay. About the Author John Handson is a physician,he is specialised in asthma home remedies,he teaches people the best way to boost health condition by handling asthma. Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> First Drug in 50 years to Treat Lupus Released Asthmatic DOG club! (cute, funny) Colonoscopy Preparation Ferrari Adds To Its Line of Fashionable Accessories Chakras Weaning off the Ventilator Effective And Simple Asthma Home Remedies Juicing Corner Day 60 Celebration!?! Acai Berry Review – Magic or Crap? A Guide To Caribbean Cruises © 2012 Gener