
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Microsoft-IIS/5.0
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 16:42:24 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Page-Completion-Status: Normal
Page-Completion-Status: Normal
Set-Cookie: CFGLOBALS=HITCOUNT%3D266%23LASTVISIT%3D%7Bts+%272012%2D03%2D01+11%3A42%3A25%27%7D%23TIMECREATED%3D%7Bts+%272012%2D03%2D01+07%3A11%3A42%27%7D%23; expires=Sun, 27-Sep-2037 00:00:00 GMT; path=/;

Homeopathy for Health Home Locate & Buy Products View Cart Sign Up FREE Newsletters Educational Pages Contact Us Search our Directory by Illness, Symptom, Remedy or Health Category- All Categories Allergy Books Cell Salts 1000 tab size Children Cold Sore/Dental Care Consultations/Questions Digestive System Emergency Remedies Family Kits Glandular Support Insomnia/Sleep Mens Products Minerals/Cell Salts Nosode Organs Pain Pets Single Remedies Sinus/Cold Skin/Hair Stress Supplies Weight Loss Women Products Product: Magnesium Phos            30C  1 oz with 680 pellets Image Description Price Qty Magnesium Phos is a wonderul remedy for muscle spasms. Use Magnesium Phos for tight painful muscle, whether in the back, leg, abdomen or calf. Magnesium Phos may also be spelled Magnesia Phos or abbreviated Mag Phos. Use Magnesium Phos in the evening for a peaceful night sleep without charley horses. Use Magnesium Phos to relax tight back muscles. Magnesium Phos supports intestinal health. Magnesium Phos can be used safely with your health plan for abdominal spasms and intestinal problems such as colitis or constipation. Magnesium Phos is listed for calming agitated nerves for pain relief of headache, writer’s cramp, sciatica, neuralgia. Use before and after dental work to calm tooth pain. Spasmodic is a key symptom and Magnesium Phos calms spasmodic coughs, hiccups, menstrual cramps. Magnesium helps with abdominal pains improved by eating. Magnesium Phos is from magnesium, an important mineral that is involved in over 300 enzyme reactions in the body. Homeopathic Magnesium Phos goes quickly into the system for prompt relief. Studies have shown that most adults are deficient in the mineral magnesium. Refined foods, pollution, non-absorption and insufficient ability of the body to utilize magnesium in the body are some of the causes. It is especially recommended that diabetics, individuals with heart disease and those with high blood pressure have their magnesium levels checked. If lacking in Magnesium Phos, nerves are on edge with the inability to relax emotionally (showing as anxiety, nervous disorders, depression) and physically (showing as muscle problems, fibromyalgia-even worse with a light touch, nerve sensitivity-even the skin may feel overly sensitive). Deficiency symptoms include stress, pain, anxiety, depression, muscle spasms, migraine headaches, PMS headaches, agitation, irritability, constipation, fatigue. Magnesium Phos is found inside the cells of muscles, 
  nerves, bones, the brain and spine. Deficiency affects muscle fibers and nerve 
  endings. Magnesium is one of the trio including Potassium and Calcium 
  involved in muscle function. Magnesium deficiency has been linked with CFS, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Consider Magnesium Phosphate when there has been nerve injury or damage. Speed injury recovery with Magnesium Phos. Magnesium Phos is indicated when nerve pain is shooting, darting, 
  or spasmodic. Couple this with magnesium's presence in the brain and you'll see Magnesium Phos importance in neuralgias and headaches. Magnesium Phos is the #1 mineral used within the cells for nerve pain. Indicated for migraines, fatigue, hearing disorders, Meniere’s disease, neuralgia, panic attacks. Works successfully with other therapies. Absorbs instantly, great for people with digestion difficulties.
One customer emails, "Dear Kathryn, The information you have sent me and with my using the Cell Salts and remedies that you advised have made me feel 90% better. I thank you with all of my heart." Beverly from Delhi, Iowa. Magnesium Phos' Mini Materia Medica: Abdominal:  Helpful for intestinal problems, calm spasmodic abdominal cramping. Colic:  Useful for colic with much gas & belching, without relief Menstrual cramps:  Helpful for menstrual cramps that are relieved by onset of flow. Shooting, darting pains. Person may feel pain is better from warmth, gentle pressure. Person may feel pain is worse with cold air, drafts. Muscle spasms:  Useful for leg cramps and writer's cramp Pain:  Helpful for pain with sharp, cutting, shooting, and constricting sensation. PMS: Useful for irritability, intestinal symptoms, anxiety, PMS headaches. Dosage and potency guidelines . Magnesia Phosphorus may also go under the names Magnesia Phosphorica, Magnesia Phos, Magnesia Phosphorica, Magnesium Phosphate, Magnesium Phosphorus, Magnesium Phos, Mag Phos, Mag Phos, Mg Ph. Dosage and potency guidelines . Suggested dose is 3 tablets 3 times a day with less frequency as improvement is made. Suggested dose is 3 pellets 3 times a day with less frequency as improvement is made. Economy 1 oz bottle with 680 pellets- that's over 9 times more pellets than multidose tubes! $16.99 Questions/Orders 1-800-390-9970 10 am to 5 pm PST Monday - Friday; &nbsp&nbspEMAIL consult@elixirs.com Home Products on ELIXIRS.com Product Specials Contact Us Order Info Ship Info Sign Up For FREE Newsletters Site established 1997. Updated Jan 2012. Site and Page Copyright © 2005. Please give proper credit to