
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 21:16:05 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sat, 30-Apr-2011 21:16:04 GMT; path=/; httponly
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sat, 30-Apr-2011 21:16:04 GMT; path=/; httponly
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset="utf-8"

Natural Cough Syrup: Natural Cough Remedy : Nasal Congestion Relief : Sinus Relief  » Maty's Healthy Products Your cart: 0 items.
    			$ 0.00 Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary Why Natural Why All Natural Remedies? Over-the-counter cough and cold medicines have risks. Some alternative treatments are not suitable for children. For centuries, parents turned to what we refer to today as ‘old-folk remedies', time-honored healing traditions passed down from grandmothers to mothers, mothers to children. These were effective cures found in nature used daily for common ailments. Read more about "Why Natural"... Contact Us Your opinion is important to us! Maty's Healthy Products, LLC PO Box 88, Pittsford, NY 14534 888.900.MATY(6289) fax 585.486.1118 Read more about "Contact Us"... Our Story image Why We Started Maty's Healthy Products... In 1996, my daughter Maty was born with severe heart defects. And to make matters worse, she was born without a spleen. It was a challenging time for our family. By age five she underwent three complex surgeries to repair her heart. Although her heart was mended, she was left with difficult medical issues and a weakened immune system. Her condition made her vulnerable. Read more about "Our Story"... Testimonials Discover what others are saying about Maty's products. Read more about "Testimonials"... Products We at Maty's Healthy Products are dedicated to promoting health and wellness for all with natural, safe cold relief for cough and cold symptoms. We recognize the importance of the body's own natural defense mechanisms and utilize all natural ingredients, carefully selected to help support the immune system. Our therapeutic blends work to enhance the body's healing power not simply cover up the symptoms. Read more about "Products"... Where to Buy Read more about "Where to Buy"... News Room News Room Find out what’s new with Maty’s and stay on top of important health care developments-- from clinical studies on the benefits of honey to the safety concerns of conventional medicines. Read more about "News Room"... All Natural Cough Syrup This syrup begins with real antioxidant rich buckwheat honey **Many of Mother Nature’s most powerful immune and support ingredients are then added. Unlike traditional over-the-counter cold medicines and homeopathic remedies, this product is food based; there are no harmful side effects. You can have peace of mind as well as a peaceful night’s sleep!** Read more about "All Natural Cough Syrup"... Kids All Natural Cough Syrup This doctor recommended syrup has a great caramel, banana taste your child will look forward to taking. It includes real antioxidant rich buckwheat honey ** and nine of Mother Nature’s most powerful immune and support ingredients. Unlike traditional over-the-counter cold medicines and homeopathic remedies, this product is food based; there are no harmful side effects. You can have peace of mind as your little one enjoys a peaceful night’s sleep!** Read more about "Kids All Natural Cough Syrup"... All Natural Baby Chest Rub Our proprietary blend of essential oils boosts immune function while it calms and soothes your baby. The all natural blend is petroleum and menthol free and can be used on babies three months and older. Read more about "All Natural Baby Chest Rub"... Next Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary © Maty'