
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:19:29 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:19:29 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Alcohol Abuse skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Alcohol Abuse Follow the links below to find summaries of the systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments for  alcohol abuse and drinking. Created August 2011 Printer friendly page 12 Resources Found Results 1 to 12 displayed. Title: Efficacy and safety of pharmacological interventions for the treatment of the Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Alcohol abuse and dependence can cause serious health problems as well as interpersonal, social, interpersonal and legal consequences. Dependence on alcohol is evident by reduced control over drinking, tolerance to alcohol and withdrawal symptoms. Alcoh... Date: Mar 2011 Title: Motivational interviewing is a short psychological treatment that can help people cut down on drugs and alcohol Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: More than 76 million people worldwide have alcohol problems, and another 15 million have drug problems. Motivational interviewing (MI) is a psychological treatment that aims to help people cut down or stop using drugs and alcohol. The drug abuser and co... Date: Mar 2011 Title: Baclofen for alcohol withdrawal Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: In recent years, baclofen demonstrated its ability to reduce symptoms of severe alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) in alcoholic patients, without producing any significant side effects. This review attempted to evaluate if baclofen is generally effective... Date: Dec 2010 Title: Opioid antagonists for alcohol dependence Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Alcohol dependence is a chronic disease, which can develop when alcohol is heavily used over longer periods of time. Alcohol affects various brain regions, including the opioid receptor system, which mediates euphoric and pleasurable effects of alcohol.... Date: Oct 2010 Title: Propylthiouracil for alcoholic liver disease Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: The majority of liver diseases are caused by alcohol in the Western world. Propylthiouracil - an antithyroid drug that is used for patients with raised metabolism - has been suggested as a potential treatment for alcoholic liver disease. Six randomised ... Date: May 2010 Title: Anticonvulsants for alcohol withdrawal syndrome Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: There are limited data on anticonvulsants versus placebo for alcohol withdrawal syndrome, while comparisons with other drugs show no clear differences. This Cochrane review summarizes evidence from forty-eight randomised controlled trials evaluating the... Date: Dec 2009 Title: Pentoxifylline for alcoholic hepatitis Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Hepatitis is inflammatory injury of the liver. Alcohol is toxic to the liver, and too much alcohol can cause alcoholic hepatitis. The severe form of alcoholic hepatitis is life-threatening. The use of pentoxifylline as a treatment for alcoholic hepatiti... Date: Aug 2009 Title: Acamprosate for alcohol dependent patients Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Alcohol dependence is an important health risk factor that can lead to disability and death for people in developed and developing countries. Alcohol consumption is potentially avoidable, which emphasizes the need for effective strategies to help people... Date: Jul 2009 Title: Psychotropic analgesic nitrous oxide for alcoholic withdrawal states Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Alcoholism is a global problem with approximately 5-10% of the world's population demonstrating alcohol-related diseases. One of the most severe consequences of alcohol dependence is the withdrawal syndrome. This review assessed the effects of psychotro... Date: Dec 2006 Title: No evidence to support or refute S-adenosyl-L-methionine for alcoholic liver diseases Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Alcohol is a major cause for liver diseases. Alcoholic liver injury reduces s-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) synthesis. SAMe acts as a methyl donor and participates in the synthesis of glutathione, the main cellular antioxidant. Randomised clinical trials... Date: Feb 2006 Title: Benzodiazepines for alcohol withdrawal Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Benzodiazepines are more effective than placebo against alcohol withdrawal seizures while they have variable profile against other commonly used treatments This Cochrane review summarizes evidence from sixty-four randomised controlled trials evaluating ... Date: May 2005 Title: Milk thistle for alcoholic and/or hepatitis B or C virus liver diseases Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Milk thistle (Silybum marianum (L) Gaertneri) extracts have been used as medical remedies since the time of ancient Greece. Alcohol and hepatotoxic viruses are the major causes of liver diseases. Several trials have studied the effects of milk thistle f... Date: Jan 2005 Results 1 to 12 displayed. Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Alcohol Abuse © 2012 National Health Call Cen