
Northeast Delta Dental - Oral Health Education Program Awarded Grant Northeast Delta Dental Search for: Follow Us: Patients Employers Providers Producers About Us Contact Us You Are Here: Home » News » 2011 Archives » Oral Health Education Program Awarded Grant Oral Health Education Program Awarded Grant 5/26/2011 PRESQUE ISLE Maine: Aroostook County Action Program, Inc. (ACAP) Oral Health Education Program recently received a generous $2,765 donation from Northeast Delta Dental to purchase new equipment for ACAP's Dental Sealant Program. ACAP serves approximately 1,000 second, third and fourth graders in all 32 Aroostook County elementary schools.  Children are provided education on the importance of proper oral health, dental screenings, and dental sealants.  Dental sealants are thin plastic coatings that are painted into the deep grooves of back teeth to prevent dental decay on the areas most susceptible to decay. The equipment used for applying sealants must be portable, strong, and durable.  ACAP currently has two sets of old and outdated equipment that serve two schools at the same time in different parts of the county. This grant from Northeast Delta Dental is specifically designated to replace two old curing lights that harden sealants to the teeth.  The new lights cure sealants in seconds, are cordless and lightweight for portablility.  ACAP will begin to use the new equipment to provide sealants for Aroostook elementary students in September. " This is an exciting opportunity for our program and the children of Aroostook County to receive this funding and support from Northeast Delta Dental.  This will allow us to update our equipment where we have not had the funding to do so.  We anticipate continued success for our program with this new equipment ." states Renee Bragdon, Community Education Specialist of ACAP Health Services. ACAP provides the people of Aroostook with services and programs in the areas of health, child and family, energy and housing, employment and training, and community service. Share This: nedelta.com Home General Information Careers Foundation Tom's Blog Board Portal About Us About Us Contact Us Annual Reports Directions Our Core Values Northeast Delta Dental Radio Tools Find a Dentist Forms Smile Squad Print ID Card Oral Health Tool Kit Plans Dental Plans