
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 24 Feb 2012 18:42:50 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Search Health Info :: Trover Health System Skip to page content. Trover Health System . Patients Visitors Physicians / Providers Employees ' | Site Index Search Health Info Guest Services Locations News & Events Lodging & Dining Services & Physicians Notices Visitation Health Library Home Search Health Topics Health News Glossaries/Printout Forms Quizzes/Calculators About Cancer Children's Health Diet & Exercise For Your Heart Health Emergencies Mental Health Orthopedics Senior's Health Wellness Information Women's Health Workplace Health Temas en Español Terms of Use/Privacy Policy Home :: Visitors :: Services & Physicians Search Health Information « Back to main page Health Library Home | Temas en Español | About Cancer | Women's Health | Men's Health | For Your Heart | Children's Health | Senior's Health | Glossaries/Printout Forms | Quizzes/Calculators | Wellness Information | Orthopedics | Mental Health | Workplace Health | Health Emergencies | Diet & Exercise | Health News | Search Health Topics | Terms of Use/Privacy Policy | By printing and/or reading this article, you agree that you accept all terms and conditions of use, as specified online. Group B Strep Group B streptococcus (group B strep or GBS) is a type of bacteria (Read about " Microorganisms ") found in the lower intestine of 10-35 percent of all healthy adults. It is NOT the same as group A strep, which causes strep throat. (Read about " Sore Throat and Strep Throat ") Normally, the presence of GBS does not cause problems. But that is not always the case. GBS can lead to serious infections in newborn babies, pregnant women, the elderly and adults with other illnesses GBS in adults Most adults, who carry or are colonized with GBS in the bowels, do not have any symptoms. Adults who are most at risk of problems due to GBS include pregnant women, older adults and people with other serious diseases such as diabetes or liver disease. (Read about " Healthy Pregnancy " " Diabetes " " The Liver ") People with a weakened immune system are also at risk. (Read about " Immune System ") In addition, people with bowel problems such as diverticular disease or IBS can develop more serious problems due to GBS. (Read about " Diverticular Disease " " Irritable Bowel Syndrome ") GBS in infants The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) say group B strep (GBS) is the most common cause of sepsis and meningitis (Read about " Sepsis " " Encephalitis and Meningitis ") in newborns. Group B strep is also considered a frequent cause of newborn pneumonia (Read about " Pneumonia ") and is more common than other, more well-known newborn problems such as rubella, congenital syphilis and spina bifida. (Read about " Childhood Illnesses " " STD's " " Neural Tube Defects ") The Group B Strep Association (GBSA) says about 8,000 babies in the United States get a serious case of GBS each year. Ten percent or about 800 may die from it. The group also says that some 20 percent who survive GBS-related meningitis are left permanently handicapped. About half of the cases of group B strep disease among newborns happen in the first week of life, which is called early-onset disease, and most of these cases start a few hours after birth. Sepsis, pneumonia (infection in the lungs), and meningitis (infection of the fluid and lining around the brain) are the most common problems. Premature babies (Read about " Preterm Labor ") are more at risk of getting a group B strep infection, but most babies who become sick from group B strep are full-term. Most pregnant women have no symptoms when they are carriers for group B strep bacteria. Being a carrier (testing positive for group B strep, but having no symptoms) is quite common. Around 25 percent of women may carry the bacteria at any time. This doesn't mean that they have group B strep disease, but it does mean that they are at higher risk for giving their baby a group B strep infection during birth. CDC's revised guidelines recommend that a pregnant woman be tested for group B strep in her vagina and rectum when she is 35 to 37 weeks pregnant. The test is simple and does not hurt. A sterile swab is used to collect a sample from the vagina and the rectum. This is sent to a laboratory for testing. (Read about " Laboratory Testing ") Most early-onset group B strep disease in newborns can be prevented by giving infected women antibiotics intravenously during labor, according to CDC. (Read about " Antibiotics " " Infusion Therapy " " Childbirth ") Antibiotics help to kill some of the strep bacteria that are dangerous to the baby during birth. The antibiotics help during labor only; they can't be taken before labor, because the bacteria can grow back quickly. Any pregnant woman who had a baby with group B strep disease in the past, or who now has a urinary tract infection (Read about " Urinary Tract Infections ") caused by group B strep, should receive antibiotics during labor says CDC. CDC says Group B strep can cause some stillbirths, and preterm babies are at greater risk of group B strep infections. The bacteria that cause group B strep disease normally live in the intestine, vagina or rectal areas. Group B strep colonization is not a sexually transmitted disease (STD). CDC says that group B strep infections in both newborns and adults are usually treated with antibiotics (e.g., penicillin or ampicillin) given intravenously. Related Information: Newborn Concerns Baby and Young Child Care All Concept Communications material is provided for information only and is neither advice nor a substitute for proper medical care. Consult a qualified healthcare professional who understands your particular history for individual concerns. © Concept Communications Media Group LLC Online health topics reviewed/modified in 2012 | Terms of Use/Privacy Policy By printing and/or reading this article, you agree that you accept all terms and conditions of use, as specified online. Trover Health System 900 Hospital Drive Madisonville, KY 42431 1.800.998.5100 270.825.5100 Disclaimer | Privacy & Safety Copyright © 2009-1