
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 00:05:02 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.64 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.64 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Therapeutic benefits of Manuka honey in wound care Account Categories All Categories Common Categories User Categories Calendar Search Wall Search Search Home Keyword Search People Search Google Site Search About About Terms of use Privacy Policy Ads Ads Home All Ads Top Rated Popular Tags Categories Calendar Featured Search Chat Chat Home Rules Moderators Photos Photos home Photo albums All photos Top photos Popular photos Featured photos Tags Categories Rater Calendar Search Polls Polls Home All Polls Popular Featured Calendar Search Tags Categories Sounds Sounds home Sound albums All Sounds Top Sounds Popular Sounds Featured Sounds Tags Categories Rater Calendar Search Videos Videos home Video albums All Videos Top Videos Popular Videos Featured Videos Tags Categories Rater Calendar Search Boards Boards Home Rules Saved skin002 UNI Therapeutic benefits of Manuka honey in wound care Home Blogs Therapeutic benefits of Manuka honey in wound care Hello, Guest ! Join Login Actions Subscribe Name: Email: Subscribe Back to Blog Rate 0 votes Overview Anna345 10.04.2012 (4 Days Ago) Food Blogs hello Categories Baby Blogs (4 posts) Blogging for Money (6 posts) Books (4 posts) City Blogs (4 posts) Dating and Personals (5 posts) Entertainment Blogs (7 posts) Food Blogs (5 posts) Games (7 posts) Health (4 posts) Holidays (8 posts) Lifestyle (11 posts) Movies (4 posts) Music (7 posts) Politics (6 posts) Tech News (4 posts) Videos (3 posts) Tags Empty Therapeutic benefits of Manuka honey in wound care Therapeutic benefits of Manuka honey in wound care 4 days ago 0 comments Categories: Food Blogs Tags: Comparing the use of Manuka honey dressing with topical antiseptics on wound infections, has shown that Manuka honey dressings significantly reduce the amount manuka of fluid exuding from the wound. This, in part, is a result of anti-inflammatory properties of Manuka honey. In addition, the anti-inflammatory properties in Manuka honey also help to reduce pain and minimize scaring. It also been found that Manuka honey dressings a moist wound environment, which create the healing process easier. Manuka Honey draws lymph from the deeper tissues of the wound by osmosis and continuously cleans the wound bed. Lymph contains enzymes that degrade protein molecules. The constant reduction of wound fluid debris remove impurities such as dirt or grit. The most likely explanation for debridement activity of Manuka honey involves the conversion of blood into plasmin, which is an enzyme that is the protein in blood clotting. This conversion minimizes dead tissue and scab on the wound. The osmotic effect of manuka honey draws moisture into the skin. It has also been found that Manuka the ability to reduce bad odors in wounds. Odorous substances such as ammonia and sulfur compounds are produced when bacteria feeds on the protein in a wound. Since Manuka Honey provides bacteria an alternative energy source (sugar), these harmful compounds are no longer produced and wound malodor is eliminated. In clinical observations, Manuka honey has also been demonstrated, the ability to wound infection in cases where antibiotics and administration have other conventional treatments have failed. More specifically, Manuka Honey has been found to be effective against antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) and other multidrug-resistant microorganisms. These mutant forms of bacteria resist antimicrobial elements by forming a biofilm. Manuka honey breaks these lumpy biofilms and preventing the formation of biofilms. These results are particularly encouraging, given the growing number of cases where staph infections that do not respond to antibiotics. Previously there was no evidence of bacterial resistance to Manuka Honey. It is highly unlikely to ever develop bacteria capable of a resistance to Manuka Honey because bacteria rely on sugar as a source of food. Manuka honey's antibacterial properties are the result of the following: 1. The high sugar content and low water activity provides an osmotic effect; 2. Acidic pH inhibits the bacterial growth; 3. Glucose oxidase enzyme produces hydrogen peroxide; 4. Factors such as plant and UMF Honey Methylglyoxal. Manuka antibacterial properties have the ability to penetrate beneath the surface of the skin, making it possible to deep-seated infections and boils to delete with intact skin. In other words, diffuses Manuka honey through the skin, deeper tissues. "The use of Manuka honey dressings help to avoid cross-contamination," says Frank Buonanotte, CEO of Honeywell Mark International, a manufacturer of advanced wound and skin care products containing , Active Manuka Honey is a remedy. "The sticky nature of Manuka Honey provides a protective barrier that prevents cross-contamination." my old articles Manuka Honey Benefits - A Discussion You may use Manuka honey for face care? Natural Healing - Bees and Manuka Honey Manuka honey - Help! - What should I know? Manuka Honey Benefits - A Discussion Casino Bonuses Explained How to get pregnant quickly and increase your chances to get pregnant fast! Comments Order by: oldest first newest first expand all Per page: 1 3 5 7 9 11 There are no comments yet Powered by                    Dolphin - Free Community Software from BoonEx - Social, Online Dating and Community Software Experts About Us Privacy Terms FAQ Invite A Friend Contact Us Bookmark Copyright © 2012 Likemindedad