
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 06:10:08 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cancer Cells, Facts You Need to Know Home Glossary/Definitions Bee's Health Programs Health Articles Candida/Yeast Bee's Groups Lose Weight Consult with Bee Make a Donation Recipes/Cooking Resources/Links Site Map Newsletters Success Stories What's New? Cancer Cells, Facts You Need to Know Cancers form anywhere between ten and thirty years
before they are discovered. Insulin stimulates cell growth. Cancer cells have six
to ten times more insulin receptors than normal cells. Studies show that high
insulin levels correlate with higher risks of developing cancer and lower rates
of survival amongst cancer patients. Lower insulin levels may help prevent the
growth of cancer. Carbohydrate consumption stimulates insulin release. Protein
consumption stimulates insulin release too, to a lesser degree. Fat consumption
does not stimulate insulin release. Sugar Feeds Cancer - Sugar and Cancer . Otto Warburg discovered that cancer cells have poor vascular systems and are deficient in oxygen, and that furthermore, when a normal cell was deprived of oxygen, it would become cancerous. The Respiratory Quotient (RQ) is a way of measuring how much oxygen you need to burn different types of fuels. The RQ of different macronutrients is thus: Carbohydrate 0.7,
Protein 0.8, Fat 1.0. You require more oxygen to burn
carbohydrate than you do to burn fat. Anaemia is caused by poor oxygen levels. Oxygen levels can be increased by supplying
the nutrients for making red blood cells: B12, folic acid, biotin, iron and
copper, all "meat" vitamins and minerals. Cancer cells can produce forty times more lactic acid
than normal cells, implying they burn glucose in the absence of oxygen. This
type of fuel-conversion is known as "fermentation" and is typically
only used by very primitive life-forms such as bacteria, because it is
inefficient and produces very little energy in comparison to other
fuel-conversions. This may be due to
defective mitochondria . Mitochondria are cell powerhouses that allow us to
burn fat for energy, they are a mark of our advanced
evolution: microbes do not have mitochondria and cannot burn fat. Some cancer
scientists have theorised that cancer cells are "throwback" cells
which have forgotten they are a part of a pattern for a bigger organism. It
seems that cancer cells are not be able to burn fat
for energy. , therefore
cancer cells may be starved with a low-carbohydrate diet. It has long been observed that cancer will
undergo spontaneous remission after a severe infection . Cancer cells are more vulnerable to unusually high
body temperatures (fevers) than normal cells. Cancer
cells produce both histamine and serotonin . Cancer cells spread by using histamine to break down
collagen. Collagen is made from vitamin C, L-lysine and L-proline
(amino acids). Histamine is made from L-histidine
(another amino acid). Therefore increasing materials that supply collagen and
decreasing materials that supply histamine may restrict cancer cell growth. Cancer cells produce up to 100 times more of an
enzyme, beta-glucosidase, than normal cells, certain
substances such as Laetrile, are broken down only in the presence of beta-glucosidase, thus providing a method targeting cancer
cells. Cancer cells prevent immune attacks by surrounding
themselves in a protective coat of fibrin. Therefore fibrinolytics
(clot-busters) such as Dipyridamole and Digitoxin may work as anti-cancer agents by breaking
down this protective coat. Streptokinase and nattokinase
also have a similar effect. Nattokinase is available without prescription. Cancer cells can only metastasize (spread) if the
blood can clot and form fibrin. Therefore prophylactic use of fibrinolytics may help to prevent the spread of an existing
cancer. Cholesterol is a vital repair substance and the
precursor to many hormones including sex hormones. It is also the precursor to
vitamin D. Low
cholesterol increases the risk of cancer . This rarely publicised fact was
discovered and confirmed during numerous heart-disease prevention trials.
Results across many trials show consistent evidence that more total deaths occurred in subjects with low cholesterol, and frequently these deaths were from cancer. The lower the cholesterol, the poorer the
survival chances of those who are ill from any disease, including cancer. Animal fat is composed of roughly equal quantities of
saturated and monounsaturated fat. Olive oil is composed largely of
monounsaturated fat. Saturated and monounsaturated fat consumption have never
been linked to cancer. Despite numerous studies, only one study has every found
a connection between breast cancer and saturated fat, and this study was
quickly debunked by numerous respectable medical sources, in fact a quick look at the
statistical evidence shows the study to be flawed. Unfortunately it is still
regularly quoted by the media and cancer charities (I consider this deeply
irresponsible). Commercial vegetable oils are composed largely of
polyunsaturated fat. Margarine, vegetable shortening, and vegetable suets are composed of chemically altered vegetable oils
known as hydrogenated oils or trans-fats. Polyunsaturated
oils and hydrogenated oils are known carcinogens . This fact was discovered
by accident in the seventies when a study aimed to aide the recovery of
hospitalised patients found those given a supplement of only 7% of energy as
polyunsaturated oil began to develop cancer. The statistics showed an increase
of around 15% from cancer deaths. These statistics were so shocking that the
study was called off on ethical grounds. Polyunsaturated
and hydrogenated fats cause cancer. Cancer is an immune system disorder. The immune system
is suppressed by carbohydrate, linoleic acid
(polyunsaturated C18:2) and phytoestrogens (including
those found in soy aka soya
products). It is bolstered by certain saturated fats such as lauric acid
(C12:0, found in coconut oil) and stearic acid
(C18:0, the main component of hard beef and lamb tallow), and most fat-soluble
and water-soluble vitamins. Full
spectrum sunlight and vitamin D extend the lives of cancer sufferers and
kill cancers in the laboratory. People with poor thyroid function are particularly
vulnerable to cancer. If you regularly feel cold you may have poor thyroid
function. Most thyroid function is easy to correct: the biggest causes of poor
thyroid function are not eating enough calories, fat deficiencies, and vitamin
and mineral deficiencies. Some Worthy Alternative Treatments Coley's Toxins Laetrile / Amygdalin / Sarcarcinase / Nitriloside / Vitamin B-17 Breuss, Gerson and Issels Cancer Treatments Dr. Matthias Rath, Linus Pauling, Vitamin C and Cellular Therapy Atkins was a Cancer Therapist Sally Fallon and the Weston A. Price
Foundation Coley's Toxins Coley's Toxins is a killed vaccine of the Streptococcus of Erysipelas and Serratia
Marcescens. It induces a fever and an immune reaction
in the patient. The dramatic, even wondrous effects of Coley's are certainly
exciting to read about. Coley's has a long history of success going back to the
early years of the 20th century. A combination of deliberate hampering by
rivals and unfortunate legislation meant that Coley's Toxins were almost lost
to history, the ultimate blame lying with a cancer charity who failed to
sponsor the treatment for their own particular reasons. Coley's is not used
commercially because it cannot be patented and therefore no drug company is
willing to throw money away on what is an extremely cheap, easy to produce
cancer treatment. More information: Coley's Toxins [PDF] . It has
been thought that Coley's works as a form of immunotherapy, or through the
L-arginine to nitric oxide pathway, however Joseph Thuo believes it may be a metabolic therapy:
that by raising the metabolic rate of the patient whilst simultaneously
starving the patient (and therefore the cancer) of nourishment, it causes a
rapid regression of the cancer. "Since the main physiological effect of
starvation is the mobilization of fatty acids and the formation of ketone
bodies by the liver, it is very likely that reduced consumption of glucose and
increased utilization of fatty acids derivatives makes malignant cells very
susceptible to the increased metabolic rate that occurs during fever." Because
cancer, as we have learned, feeds off glucose, not fatty acids, and is
vulnerable to high body temperatures. This is certainly the most plausible
theory I have seen so far. Laetrile / Amygdalin / Sarcarcinase / Nitriloside / Vitamin B-17 AKA Amygdalin, Sarcarcinase, Nitriloside, or vitamin B-17 is found in apricot kernels, greengage, plum, cherry and apple seeds, the seeds of other members of
the Rosaceae family, millet, linseed and bitter
cassava root (tropical manioc or tapioca). Apricot kernels taste almost exactly
like almonds but with an additional bitter taste (not everyone can taste this).
The bitter taste is the Laetrile. Seven apricot kernels per day may be all you
need to protect yourself from cancer for life. Laetrile contains cyanide and benzaldehyde. It works like a targeted chemotherapy (unlike
regular chemotherapy, which is untargeted). "The vitamin is harmless to healthy tissue for a
very simple reason: each molecule of B17 contains one unit of cyanide, one unit
of benzaldehyde and two of glucose (sugar) tightly
locked together. In order for the cyanide to become dangerous it is first
necessary to 'unlock' the molecule to release it, a trick that can only be
performed by an enzyme called beta-glucosidase ,
which is present all over the human body in minute quantities, but in truly
vast quantities (up to 100 times as high) at only one place: the site of a
malignant cancer tumor. Thus the cyanide is unlocked only at the cancer site
with drastic results, which become utterly devastating to the cancer cells
because the benzaldehyde unit unlocks at the same
time. Benzaldehyde is a deadly poison in its own
right, which then acts synergistically with the cyanide to produce a poison 100
times more deadly than either in isolation. The combined effect on the cancer
cells is best left to the imagination. But what about danger
to the rest of the body's cells? Another enzyme, rhodanese,
always present in far larger quantities than the unlocking enzyme beta-glucosidase in healthy tissues, has the easy ability to
completely break down both cyanide and benzaldehyde
into beneficial body products. Predictably perhaps, malignant cancer cells
contain no rhodanese at all, leaving them completely
at the mercy of the two deadly poisons." More on Laetrile and benzaldehyde . Groves
says Laetrile works because of the hydrogen cyanide,
Moss says benzaldehyde works, even though it's
Laetrile without the hydrogen cyanide! As we can see from the above quote, both
work but work better in a synergistic process involving both chemicals. Bitter
apricot kernels are available from numerous sources online . I regularly eat
bitter apricot kernels. I have yet to observe any ill effects, in spite of all
of the over-hyped official health warnings claiming I will fall down dead of
cyanide poisoning. Breuss, Gerson and Issels Cancer Treatments The Breuss
Total Cancer Treatment is based on what amounts to a 42 day fast
supplemented by multiple antioxidant and enzyme rich herbal teas and vegetable
juices. This is a whacky sounding treatment, but it does get results. The
Austrian authorities once tried to sue Breuss for his
"dangerous diet", but the case collapsed: Breuss's
lawyer, himself a cancer survivor cured by Breuss, trotted out a procession of patients attesting to
the healing powers of Breuss's diet. Breuss believed protein restriction was vital. Gerson Therapy is strictly vegetarian and includes
supplements of B12 and liver extract to compensate. Here is a sample regimen: Thirteen glasses of fresh, raw carrot/apple and
green-leaf juices prepared hourly from fresh, organic fruits and vegetables. Three full vegetarian meals, freshly prepared from
organically grown fruits, vegetables and whole grains. A typical meal will
include salad, cooked vegetables, baked potatoes, vegetable soup and juice. Fresh fruit and fresh fruit dessert available at all
hours for snacking, in addition to the regular diet. Regular coffee enemas to detoxify the body. Gerson and Breuss therapies have
popularised wheatgrass consumption amongst cancer sufferers. Wheatgrass is a
natural source of Laetrile (B-17). Breuss and Gerson treatments are non-toxic and have good success
rates. The primary theory that underpins these treatments is
that modern, processed foods are extremely harmful to the body. Cancer,
arthritis and other degenerative diseases are rarely found in cultures
considered "primitive" by Western civilization. This is regarded to
be diet-related by many nutritional anthropologists. Degenerative diseases
appear in these cultures only when modern packaged foods and additives are
introduced. Like Breuss, Gerson regarded excess protein as a carcinogen and believed
that cancer cannot live or grow without protein. These diets are accidentally
very low in fat. A very low fat diet is ironically a very high saturated fat
diet, because when fat is in deficiency in the diet, the body switches on a
mechanism that converts carbohydrates into saturated fat. Furthermore, because
juice fasts are deficient in calories, they stimulate ketosis and raise the
levels of ketones in the blood. Thus they exert the
same effects on the body as a high-fat ketogenic
diet, and again we have returned to the defective mitochondria theory of
cancer. Issels runs many alternative cancer clinics where a combination of treatments can be
obtained. The focus is on restoring the health of the immune system
(immunotherapy). Issels treatments are founded on the
holistic premise that cancer cannot develop in a healthy body, and are
influenced by Gerson, Breuss
and others. Issels focuses on a high raw
vegetable/enzyme diet, low in protein. Issels also
advises the importance of removing toxins from the body such as mercury
fillings and pesticides, and also hidden sources of infection from the body
(such as root canals). Coley's Toxins is an integral part of the Issels treatment, along with a separate second vaccine, Issels autologous vaccine. Click
here for a treatment
summary . One caveat is that anyone approaching Gerson and Breuss therapies
should be skeptical of some of the wild claims made
on the internet by radical vegans denigrating "carcinogenic" animal
products. Unfortunately Gerson and Breuss therapies have been seized upon by the radical vegan
wing, who will actively recruit newly diagnosed cancer patients for their own
political ends. Such advocates have a favourite argument which denigrates milk
in favour of soy, citing the example of the Chinese who "do not use dairy
products." Actually, the Chinese "do" use dairy products if they are
rich enough to afford them, and the health of those using them is superior to
the poor who do not. The cancer rates in China are unexpectedly "high" for a rural nation,
despite those who would have you think otherwise. Soy is in itself a carcinogen
unfit for human consumption . Prince Charles was criticised in the July of 2004 for promoting Gerson therapy. One criticism levelled against him at the time was that "there is no evidence that large doses of vitamin C fight cancer." This is an ironic and embarrassing comment for a cancer "expert" to make, as we shall see next. Dr.
Matthias Rath, Linus Pauling, Vitamin C and Cellular
Therapy What evidence is there that protein in general (or excess protein) "fuels" cancer? Not that much, however CAAT (Controlled
Amino Acid Therapy) , like juice fasts, has shown quite a lot of promise. It
is not so much all protein, but certain proteins which must be
restricted. In this case the focus is on restricting one of the four amino
acids involved in DNA synthesis (glycine, glutamic acid, aspartic acid and serine), in particular glycine, along with vitamins involved in DNA synthesis
(particularly B vitamins including folic acid and B6 restriction). However
another part of the protein puzzle may be connected to the amino acid L-histidine and its effect on the immune system. This may be
why H2 blockers such as cimetidine ,
antacids and antihistamines have some anti-cancer effect. H2 blockers suppress
the immune system by blocking histidine. L-histidine, which makes histamine, is essential for normal
immune function. Histamine is a vital component of mast cells. Infectious
agents get into the body and move around by temporarily breaking down collagen
in order to travel. To chase down the invaders, these immune system cells also
move around the body in the same manner, by breaking down collagen, which is
repaired again afterwards by other cells. This is also how tumours grow:
emitting histamine to break down collagen. Antihistamines do appear to have an
anti-cancer effect. Antihistamines stop immune system cells from breaking down
collagen and moving around, but they do not prevent infectious agents from
getting in and producing histamine of their own and consequently wreaking
havoc. This starvation-paralysis is the same reason that antihistamines and H2
blockers weaken the immune system. I have a friend who takes H2 blockers: he always has a cold. So what if you could sway the balance in another
direction? That is, instead of focusing on starving the body of histidine and making it vulnerable to infection,
give it all the fuel it needs to make collagen. Collagen is a protein that
makes connective tissue: gristle, and the non-mineral part of bones. It is
extremely tough. Gelatin is collagen that has been made water-soluble by
lengthy boiling. It is what you end up with when you make a bone-based meat
stock or boil a pig's trotter (the foot of a pig). The perfect proportion of amino acids for making
collagen is found in... collagen. That is, gelatin.
L-lysine and L-proline are essential ingredients of
collagen. Unlike most mammals, human beings do not make their
own vitamin C. Humans lost their ability to make their own vitamin C around
forty million or so years ago (some sources say 25 million), when we were still
primates. This has resulted in numerous genetic kludges in our make up.
Virtually all other mammals make their own vitamin C. Compared to the average
cat, dog or goat, we're in a permanent state of subclinical scurvy, leaving us susceptible to infection,
immune system disorders, stress and weak arteries that our bodies attempt to
shore up by depositing atherosclerotic plaque. Adjusted for weight, the average
mammal makes the human equivalent of 18 grams of vitamin C per day. The body
requires vitamin C to build collagen. Given enough vitamin C, the body eagerly
makes collagen because the enzymic reactions that
occur in the presence of vitamin C are still an essential part of our genetic
makeup. With a constant supply of the building blocks of collagen, the immune
system cells, infectious agents, and cancerous cells all have a harder time
moving around at the expense of those that don't belong there. Don't be put off by all of the politics and conspiracy
theory on Dr. Matthias Rath's website. At least half
of what he says is completely justified, and any paranoia on Rath's part can be excused considering the personal smear
campaign waged against him over the last decade by pharmaceutical companies who
stand to lose out based on his scientific evidence: he was recently justified
by the
prosecution of Bayer, Roche and Archer-Daniels-Midland for using his
information to form a cartel and increase the price of vitamin C . Unfortunately Rath's politics are so overt that he's
effectively shooting himself in the foot by making himself
look radical and paranoid to the average reader. Rest assured,
Rath's science is sound. After years of denial,
avoidance and white noise, the U.S. National Institutes of Health finally
announced recently that vitamin C selectively kills cancer cells, and this was
trumpeted around the world by the media as if it were a new discovery! Those of
us who have had an inside view on the world of alternative medicine know
otherwise and look on this chain of events with a combination of frustration
and disgust. The science is this: Rath
discovered he could suppress and reverse both heart disease and cancer by
giving people the ingredients for making collagen (anywhere between ten and
eighteen grams of vitamin C per day, plus amino acids L-lysine (half the
quantity of the vitamin C), L-proline and a few other
ingredients including a broad spectrum of other vitamins). Rath has a cancer
education book [pdf] on his website. Everyone
should read this book. The science is supported by clinical trial evidence: no
conventional treatment (like chemotherapy or radiation therapy) can boast
anywhere near the success rate of Rath's treatments . The facts were established fifteen years ago, ample time for the news to filter
through. It's a downright scandal the treatment isn't being used in hospitals,
which just goes to prove how the world of medicine is ruled by capital, not
science. There may be more reasons than Rath
suspects as to why vitamin C works so well: vitamin C and glucose antagonise
each other as they're chemically similar and use the same "pumps" to
get into cells. In fact, mammals make vitamin C from glucose in the
liver. In not being able to do this, humans have an integral disorder of
carbohydrate metabolism. Cancer is anaerobic, meaning it feeds
off glucose and produces lactic acid rather than using oxygen like normal
cells. Anything that starves the cancer of glucose may help, and flooding the
cell pumps with vitamin C would conceivably deprive cells of a fuel supply. L-lysine is another part of the story. L-lysine is an
essential amino acid (we can't make it in our bodies) that is deficient in
grain products compared to other ratios of amino acids. We receive it (and L-histidine) in perfect proportions to our bodily needs when
we eat meat or eggs. L-lysine is easily destroyed by cooking at high
temperatures, and by cooking meats with starches and sugars. These facts
imply we aren't getting as much L-lysine as our body expects in evolutionary
terms . I don't think much to Rath's
dietary advice: it's vague and it consists of recommendations to eat lots of
wholesome vegetables. But think about it. What diet is naturally high in
L-lysine and vitamin C and low in the primary tumour-fuel, glucose? "A
Palaeolithic-style diet of raw or lightly cooked meat, bones, green vegetables
and berries." What diet is naturally low in L-lysine and vitamin C and high
in the primary tumour-fuel, glucose? "The standard Western
food pyramid rich in grains and starches and coated in sugar." Atkins was a Cancer Therapist Robert Atkins MD, though best known for his weight
loss diet, was actually a complimentary therapist with a high cancer cure rate
at his clinic in New York. I found a
copy of the
Atkins cancer treatment protocol online and have reproduced it here . Though
not included in the attached article, Atkins was experimenting with Coley's
Toxins before his death. It is rumoured that he was forced to turn people away
from the treatment in droves because of its popularity. Atkins recommends a low sugar/lower carbohydrate diet
for cancer patients. That's because (as we've seen already) cancer feeds off
glucose almost exclusively. Whilst he stresses the importance of enzymes and
raw vegetables, Atkins doesn't recommend a low-protein diet,
instead he stresses the importance of vitamins and minerals. The secret to the
success of Atkins' approach is that it is a holistic, combination therapy,
taking elements of all alternative cancer treatments (from mercury filling
removal to useful herbs, to natural-source vitamins). Atkins's low-carbohydrate, high-fat approach fits in
well with the defective-mitochondria
theory of cancer cell energy utilisation , though it does not include the addition of citric acid: "Citric acid an intermediary product
of the Krebs cycle metabolism has also been reported to block the actions of phosphofructokinase. A low carbohydrate, high fat diet to
increase the blood levels of ketones, along with
supplements or foods rich in citric acid may some day prove a beneficial
adjunct to chemotherapy in the treatment of many cancers." Atkins was not a lone crusader with regards to such
diets for cancer therapy. A
number of studies are currently underway or have recently been completed (note this link is a rather out in the left-field with regards the Reich and
Rife information at the bottom of the page, but interesting to speculate on). Sally Fallon and the Weston A. Price Foundation Not directly a cancer treatment, unless you bear in
mind that native people on their traditional diets do not get cancer .
Based on the work of dentist turned anthropologist Weston A
Price, the Weston A Price Foundation seeks to promote good nutrition based on the study of native and primitive
diets. Fallon stresses the importance of fat-soluble vitamins and saturated fat
for proper health. After years of painstaking analysis and research of many
native groups around the world, Price found that foods from one or more of the
following groups were absolutely essential to their good health: Seafood, fish, shellfish, fish organs, fish liver oils
and fish eggs Organ meats from wild animals or grass fed domestic
animals Insects Fats of certain birds and monogastric
(one stomach) animals such as sea mammals, guinea pigs, bears and hogs Egg yolks from pastured chicken and other birds Whole, raw milk, cheese and butter from grass-fed
animals Raw, unprocessed foods were vital to health and all
foods in group six were eaten raw (i.e. with enzymes and vitamin content
intact), as well as a portion of each of the other groups. Price found that
meat-eating natives were considerably better off in health, including bone
structure, physique, height and health, than the few near-vegetarian natives he
discovered, who were often shorter and prone to more
disease (and were also more war-like). No totally vegetarian groups were found. Native diets were 10x richer in the fat soluble
vitamins (A,D,E) and 4x richer in water soluble vitamins (B,C) than the
contemporary 1930's Western diet of Price's day. Cancer was simply unknown
amongst those on a fully native diet. Price and his contemporaries found many
cases of native peoples who had started to eat a Westernised diet and had since
developed chronic health problems, including cancer. His cure was to send
natives back to the wilderness, at which point the diseases often simply
cleared up by themselves. In Nourishing Traditions , a sort of native
nutrition cookbook, Fallon stresses the importance of enzyme and vitamin rich
lacto-fermented foods like live yoghurt, kefir, and sauerkraut, the
neutralisation of enzyme-inhibitors (in raw/unfermented grains, nuts, beans),
and avoidance of anti-nutrients (like processed flour, bread, pasta, white
rice, large amounts of fibre, breakfast cereals, vegetable oils, hydrogenated
oils, soy and sugar). The Weston A. Price Foundation stress
the importance of a mixed diet, with adequate amounts of saturated fat. This diet is naturally higher in fat and lower in
carbohydrates and has a lower GI, because only unnatural, refined foods are
very high in carbohydrates and low in fat. Starving the Cancer What on earth do ketogenic fat-fast (low-carbohydrate,
high-fat) treatment protocols have in common with low-fat, low-protein juicing fasts ?
It would appear there is more than one way to skin a cat. The success of
juicing fasts is often attributed to the vast quantities of antioxidants
consumed in the juice. But on closer examination the quantities of antioxidants
really aren't that impressive compared to those provided by vitamin megadosing, though they may contain useful undetected
compounds. Vegetable juices may also contain chemotherapeutic agents, but not
really in the quantities supplied by conventional medicine. Vegetable juices
also contain a fair (but not large) amount of carbohydrate. By contrast there
appear to be some very sensible, logical explanations for why a ketogenic diet starves cancer. So what gives? In fact, both
diets have something in common: they both cause starvation. Every weight-loss diet produces ketosis in
varying degrees. Ketosis is the inevitable physical result of starvation. The
body tries to conserve as much glucose as possible and burns fat at an
accelerated rate. Weight loss is not appropriate for a cancer patient.
This is why I believe a "cycling" method is preferable to an extended
fast, in order to regain lost weight. An extended fast of any kind also lowers
the metabolic rate, which is precisely what we do not want to do. It is vital
to keep the metabolic rate high in order to starve the cancer of fuel. Fat
fasts are less harmful to the thyroid than other very low-calorie diets, but
will also produce accelerated weight loss for this same reason. As fasting is
so advantageous to cancer patients, it is important not to throw the baby out
with the bath water. Cycling periods of eating excess calories to regain lost
weight with intensive fasts will help to prevent the metabolism from slowing
down. One should be able to see the similarities between
these therapies if one looks beneath the surface. Coley's toxins
appears to work by starving the
cancer whilst raising the metabolic rate . Fat fasts, particularly when
conducted with the aide of coconut oil, can temporarily raise the metabolic
rate too (but cannot sustain it for long periods). Fever therapy, along with
juice fasting, is an integral part of Issels therapy.
Gerson and Breuss work on
the basis of starvation too. Raising the Metabolism Fever therapy works by raising the metabolism. The
metabolism is governed by the thyroid. Under normal circumstances, the thyroid
dictates how warm we are and therefore how fast our cells burn energy. Vitamins and minerals are vital to thyroid health.
Consumption of soy and various other nuts, beans and grains can impair thyroid
health. Phytic acid (found in fibre) prevents the absorption of many minerals
and is a culprit in poor thyroid function. Vitamins A and D, iodine, selenium,
calcium and magnesium and many trace minerals are all important thyroid
nutrients. Eat a diet rich in these vitamins and nutrients. Take cod liver oil
and use sea salt and eat seaweed and sea salt (for iodine and other trace
minerals). Shellfish are excellent. If you are allergic to dairy products,
goodly quantities of calcium and magnesium can be obtained from bone broths,
preferably cooked slowly over 24 to 48 hours. Small bony fish such as anchovies
can be pureed in a blender to provide large amounts of calcium and trace
minerals. In general, the more calories you eat (as long as you
are well nourished by vitamins), the hotter you will become. On a day to day
basis it is important to keep your weight up, so eating plenty of calories
(whilst limiting carbohydrates and proteins) is not a
problem. Obviously it becomes a problem if you want to fast to starve the
cancer. But in order to accelerate the metabolism beyond what is normal, you
need to consider various fever therapies. There are many ways to induce a fever , Coley's
toxins is just one way. Less precise methods include hot baths, wrapping up
warm with a hot water bottle, brandy and champagne (together), saunas
(especially infrared light saunas), and catching a nasty infection(!) Fever
needs to occur simultaneously with ketosis. Whilst do-it-yourself methods are
undoubtedly useful, it would be pertinent to consider checking yourself into an
alternative clinic that can induce, monitor and control your fever. End Notes and Nutritional Advice Targeted Chemotherapy Detoxifying Physical Injury Immune System Health Sodium Ascorbate (Vitamin C) Buying Time and Nourishing the
Body on a Low Carbohydrate Diet Targeted Chemotherapy We have explored Laetrile, just one of the promising
alternative "herbal" therapies available. There are many more as
shown here in the atkins cancer protocol , and on Ralph Moss's website .
You will find a great deal of overlap between the remedies listed. All are
worthy of exploration, and there is no reason why several cannot be used at
once unless one is performing a clinical trial on oneself (not appropriate when
time is of the essence). Combination therapies are generally far more effective
than single or serial doses of different herbs. Detoxifying Potential carcinogens include all of the following
groups. Whilst your cancer may or may not have been triggered by one of them in
particular, conduct a close examination of your circumstances and history.
Cancers typically form between ten and thirty years before they are discovered,
you may need to think hard. Particular pathogens (viruses and bacteria),
particularly those that remain in the body for extended periods. Most prescription and non-prescription drugs,
including anti-inflammatories and hormonal drugs such
as The Pill. Stimulants such as caffeine (coffee, tea, chocolate), theobromine (chocolate), tannins (wine, particularly red
wine, oak-matured wines and spirits including whisky, beers, particularly
heavy, dark beers such as stouts). Recreational drugs (particularly stimulants such as cocaine). Pesticides, agricultural chemicals and household chemicals. Many food additives including MSG, and all artificial sweeteners, particularly aspartame, nitrates and sulfites. Heavy metals such as mercury (amalgam fillings), aluminium (deodorants) and potentially fluoride (toothpaste and non-stick pans). To detoxify physical toxins that remain in the body
such as pesticides and heavy metals, bentonite clay
is extremely helpful. It is a "magnetised"
clay which is added to bath water that draws out toxins. The darker the sludge
that remains in the bath, the more toxins have been
drawn out of the body. To remove heavy metals, the most effective natural treatment is a high "good" fats diet that includes butter, unrefined coconut oil, lard, fish oil, etc. along with fat soluble vitamins A, D and E. Infrared saunas are also helpful for sweating out toxins and heavy metals, whilst simultaneously providing fever therapy benefits. Enemas, particularly organic Coffee Enemas which are used by Gerson therapy to detoxify. Physical Injuries Physical injuries upon the body can provoke
cancer. Cancers may occur at the sites of former wounds. Repeated severe
sunburn is a risk factor for skin cancer. This should not be confused with
regular, normal sun exposure and tanning. Regular, normal sun exposure
is protective for two reasons. Firstly it promotes tanning which protects the
skin, and secondly it promotes the manufacture of vitamin D. Vitamin D can only
be manufactured when UVB rays (the "burning ray") are present during
the two hours either side of actual noon. Vitamin D is known for its
anti-cancer effects on the immune system. Lung cancer is correlated with smoking. The
number of people who are calculated to die through passive smoking is
absolutely tiny, only a few hundred every year in Britain. The French have higher rates of lung cancer per
capita because so many of them smoke, however protective factors in the diet
mean that the percentage of people who develop lung cancer per number of
smokers is much lower than the British. In order for lung cells to be healthy their cell membranes must be constructed out of 100% saturated fat, and the French are also a nation of fat-eaters, forty percent or
more of their calories come from fat compared to thirty percent for the
British. The French also have a better vitamin D status due to better sunlight
exposure. It is known that cancer surgery is a risk factor for
cancer metastasis (where cancer cells spread to other areas of the body).
Causing physical injury to already damaged tissue, provoking and inflaming the
area is something that should be done with considerable caution. Most medical sources will tell you that breast pain is
not a risk factor for breast cancer. Somewhat ironically those medical sources
will then list breast pain as a symptom of breast cancer. Breast pain is
associated with high oestrogen (estrogen) levels. It is also associated with caffeine use,
and badly fitting bras, particularly bras with underwires. Breast pain is also associated with the use of mammographies , which have recently been found to increase the risk of
breast cancer ! Bras
and breast cancer , and further information .
Only one study has ever been performed with regards to bras and breast cancer. The study was uncontrolled (it did not account for other factors such as
professional or manual job status, nutrition, medical history, stress, smoking
etc), however the results were quite shocking and very strongly correlated with
the wearing of bras. The longer the subjects wore a bra each day, and the less
comfortable the type of bra they wore, the more likely they were to get breast
cancer. Women who wore a bra for 24 hours a day had a 75% chance of
developing breast cancer . Results like this do not happen by accident, they
cannot be written away as coincidental, and the fact that this study has not
been repeated under controlled circumstances is a testament to the
profit-motivation, lack of imagination and entrenched conservatism of medical
authorities and cancer charities towards the health and well-being of women.
The thought of women going bra-less is obviously quite shocking to them (in
terms of their profits from bra-sponsorship deals at least). The bottom line is, avoid physically stressing and
damaging your body, for both cancer prevention and to help prevent metastasis
or further growth. Immune System Health If you suffer from immune system problems or take
immunosuppressant drugs you are at greater risk of cancer. Chronic
inflammation, infections and allergens are of particular concern especially if
they are ongoing. Continued, prolonged assaults against the immune system cause
chronic overstimulation by cytokines (substances that
draw white blood cells to areas of infection), which lead to immunodeficiency
disorders. Cancers are often indicators of late stage AIDS: they are also
caused by the immunosuppressant drugs that AIDS patients are prescribed. As we have already learned, vitamin C is vital to
immune system health. Vitamin D is very important too, which must be accompanied by vitamins A and E. Maximise your immune
system health by eating a nourishing diet and following the Rath cancer protocol mentioned above. Sodium Ascorbate (Vitamin C) Vitamin C is completely harmless in very large doses.
The worst it will give you is a bit of diarrhoea. You can buy very large tubs
of ascorbic acid from Holland and Barrett and most other health shops in powder
form, which can be dissolved in water or orange juice. Vitamin C should be
taken to bowel tolerance (when it causes loose stools), and it should be split down into two doses, one in
the morning and one in the evening. Excess vitamin C is excreted in the faeces.
Bowel tolerance means, take vitamin C until your bowels loosen due to your body
getting rid of the excess vitamin C. Start at a dose of five grams (5,000 mg) and build up
each day until this occurs, and you have found your own personal limit. You can take citrus bioflavinoids in a ratio of 1:10 to vitamin C. You may wish to complement with flavinoids such as rutin, hesperadin, etc. Taking pure ascorbic acid may disagree with you. You
may experience muscle twitching or cramping, particularly during the night.
This is because vitamin C is an acid that binds to minerals and electrolytes,
and when excreted can chelate these substances out of
your body. Therefore take a multi-mineral supplement with your vitamin C. If
you continue to have problems, you may wish to change over to sodium ascorbate . This can be made at home from powdered
ascorbic acid mixed with sodium bicarbonate (bicarbonaate of soda/baking soda). Bicarb of soda is available in pharmacies
and the baking aisle of the supermarket. Ascorbic acid is an acid, and sodium
bicarbonate is a base. Together they make a neutralised salt. Mix equal amounts
in a glass, add water, and watch it fizz. It's perfectly safe to drink! You can
make magnesium ascorbate in a similar way, by mixing
ascorbic acid with milk of magnesia (pure magnesium hydroxide). Because of the amounts of vitamin C required, and the
need to keep blood levels of vitamin C consistently high throughout the day,
cancer patients often use an intravenous drip or inject vitamin C
intravenously. Some cancer patients can tolerate over 100 grams of vitamin C
per day without reaching bowel tolerance. Vitamin C should always be given as
an ascorbate if injected, and be professionally
mixed. Buying Time and Nourishing the Body on a Low Carbohydrate Diet Good nutrition is everything to good health. In
practice, cancer causes wasting. If a patient eats, the cancer thrives on the
glucose and the patient wastes at the expense of the cancer. If the patient
fasts, the cancer may stop growing but the patient wastes because they are
fasting and eventually succumbs to starvation. It is absolutely vital to
prevent this wasting in order to keep the body strong. How can this be done? You need to find out your Body Mass Index . If it
is under 20 or even 21, you have cause for concern. You need to put on
weight to stave off that wasting and weakness, in order to give your body
chance to heal itself. Extra body fat buys time, and
the best, healthiest way to gain weight is to eat a liberal diet of wholefoods, that is high in calories and not so low in
carbohydrate that it prevents weight gain (+70 grams per day). You should of
course avoid too much carbohydrate and particularly refined carbohydrates.
Adding an extra 500 calories a day should give you a pound a week ( if you were eating enough in the first place). Many underweight and undernourished
people find that adding a little extra animal fat and protein to their diet is
all that is required to normalise their body weight. Secondly, you should invest in a dietary calculator to
find out exactly how much and what kind of food you are eating. Get plenty of natural
sunlight and avoid artificial lighting. Eat a very rich diet of nutrient-dense foods . Eat organic, fresh foods, eating plenty of raw and
fermented foods (homemade sauerkraut, yoghurt). Eat only natural wholefoods. Do not eat things out of packages or that have ingredients labels . If
the food has an ingredients label, it is processed in a factory and the chances
are it will contain a number of carcinogenic ingredients such as refined carbohydrates
and trans-fats or damaged fats, as well as a variety of carcinogenic additives.
Such foods will deplete your very precious nutrient reserves and leave you
vulnerable. Avoid sugar and other refined carbohydrates. Avoid vegetable oils and hydrogenated oils. Do not eat processed meats (they contain nitrates,
common carcinogens). Invest in some unrefined coconut oil, or try drinking or cooking
with coconut milk. Buy all of your cosmetics and toiletries from the
health shop, including fluoride-free toothpaste and aluminium-free deodorants. Invest in some new pans for the kitchen - avoiding
aluminium and carcinogenic non-stick Teflon. Keep healthy snacks like nuts, olives, cheese and eggs
around to prevent succumbing to temptation. Is junk food really worth dying
for? Bear in mind that any
radical change you choose make in your diet will probably make you feel
terrible for anywhere between two and six weeks, and it will cause a
considerable shock to your body. Unrefined Coconut oil is a particularly
useful saturated fat that provides quick energy for the sick. It has specific
properties that heat the body and stimulate the thyroid and has proven
anti-cancer properties. As such it can become an important aspect of fever
therapy. How much carbohydrate do you need? Carbohydrate is a non-essential dietary nutrient.
When you do not eat enough in your regular diet, your body will make it from glucogenic proteins (about 50% of proteins are glucogenic) and the glycerol component of fats (about 5% of weight). If not supplied, your body will make around 90 grams of carbohydrate
every day in order to keep your blood sugar perfectly stable and feed your
brain. It is worth remembering that carbohydrate stimulates insulin release,
and therefore cancer cell growth. The less carbohydrate you consume, the more
stable your blood sugar becomes as the body makes its own glucose at a very
regular rate. Preventing blood sugar spikes seems an important way of depriving
cancer cells of excess fuel. Furthermore, the less carbohydrate you eat, the
more energy your body will derive from fats. Fats do not stimulate cancer cell
growth. As carbohydrates are not essential, eat as little as you can tolerate but
at least reduce consumption to around ninety grams. What types of carbohydrate? Refined carbohydrates such as sugar and white flour
are considered anti-nutrients: they use up more vitamins (particularly B
vitamins) than they provide. Beriberi (Thiamin, B1
deficiency) is endemic in India and is caused by the consumption of white rice.
Pellagra (Niacin, B3 deficiency) was widespread throughout the US Midwest in
the early part of the 20th century and was caused by a diet of corn grits,
white bread and sugar. It seems sensible therefore to remove all refined
carbohydrates from the diet: sugar, bread (even brown bread is highly processed
and contains soy), pastries, rice, and pasta should all be avoided. Crisps,
chips, chocolate, soda-drinks and other junk foods qualify for removal too,
with additional concerns about carcinogenic additives. With the removal of
these carbohydrates from the diet it is extremely easy to reach a target of
ninety grams of carbohydrate per day with no pain whatsoever and little shock
to the body. In order of preference, the most nutrient rich vegetables and
fruits are: leafy green vegetables and brassicas,
berries and soft summer fruits, nuts, carrots, larger fruits (apples, mangoes,
kiwi, bananas), other root vegetables, potatoes and unrefined grains (crude rye
bread, sprouted wheat bread and oatmeal, available from health shops). How much protein do you need? Your RDA of protein is your weight in kilograms, in
grams. If you weigh 50 kilograms, your RDA is 50 grams, if you weigh 60 kilograms, your RDA is 60 grams. Meat is approximately
20%-30% protein by weight. Protein too stimulates insulin release, but not in
such great quantities as carbohydrate. Animal protein contains L-histidine as well as L-lysine and L-proline. It seems wise to eat no more than your RDA of protein or preferably much less,
whilst also taking supplements of the amino acids Rath
recommends, or following the CAAT protocol. What types of protein? As protein should be restricted, it should come from
the highest quality sources. It should only come from animal sources. Eggs and
organ meats are the highest quality sources of protein, and come with the added
benefits of being extremely rich sources of vitamins and minerals. Some people
who are sick get better by eating egg yolks alone. Bypass muscle meats in
favour of liver, kidneys, brains, sweetbreads (pancreatic and thymus glands),
lights (lungs) and tripe (stomach). Each contains specific nutrients that will
nourish your body more thoroughly than ordinary muscle meat. Cook them as
lightly as you dare. Attempt to obtain thyroid glands and thyroid extracts as
these contain the powerful hormones you need to raise your metabolic rate and
give you an advantage over the cancer. Whilst the Japanese suffer from less heart disease
(artery blockages) than the West, they frequently die of strokes and cancer, in fact overall cancer rates in Japan are virtually identical to European rates. Mainstream nutritionalists
and governmental agency advice suggests we should get no more and no less than
30% of our energy from fat (this translates to between 66-83 grams of fat per
day on a 2,000-2,500 calorie diet, something many people don't achieve). In
spite of a concerted medical campaign against fat consumption, US and EU
agencies are reluctant to advise that less energy than this come from fat, as
it is known that a variety of health problems develop on low-fat diets. Without
enough fat it becomes impossible to absorb fat-soluble vitamins (A, carotinoids, D, E, K), essential fatty acids cease to be
used effectively by the body, and a variety of issues from skin problems to
mental and nervous system problems to fatty liver and poor blood sugar control
develop. Unfortunately no one knows how much fat we "really" need because
fat is such a contentious subject, and scientists have spent the last fifty
years trying (and failing) to prove that fat is a metabolic poison. For cancer
sufferers, it is important to know that fat does not stimulate cancer growth,
or insulin release. Moreover it can stimulate the thyroid (metabolism), and
heat your body, putting cancer cells at a disadvantage. What types of fat? Animal fats (butter, lard, tallow, suet, dripping), olive oil, coconut oil,
cocoa butter and shea butter are all good choices of fat. For more information on the science of fats,
visit this website .  Also it is important to supplement with Omega 3 (DHA and EPA), vitamins A and D - found in cod liver oil. Vegetable oils and hydrogenated vegetable oils should be avoided at all costs. These are typically found in margarines, salad dressing, mayonnaise, and other food substitute products, and virtually all commercial bakery products. How many vitamins do you need? You will be at a severe
disadvantage if your vitamin and mineral levels are low or are depleted by
chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Micronutrients are essential for good immune
system health and good thyroid function. Whilst most of us can settle for our
RDA of vitamins, we have seen how vitamin megadosing
can have dramatic effects on cancer. Fat-soluble vitamins A, D and E, plus calcium and magnesium as well as a variety of trace
minerals (ideally found in unrefined ocean sea salt) are essential for good thyroid
health. There are also anti-nutrients you must be
aware of. Soy is a very common anti-nutrient (it is now an ingredient in all
commercial breads in the UK, salad dressing, mayonnaise and many other processed products). Consumption of soy foods is a common cause of hypothyroidism [and many other health problems]. iHerb.com 