
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/1.3.34 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.8.25 OpenSSL/0.9.7a
X-ATG-Version: ATGPlatform/7.2 [ DASLicense/0 DPSLicense/0 DSSLicense/0  ]
Content-Type: text/html
Cache-Control: private
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 03:09:44 GMT
Connection: close
Set-Cookie: BROWSER_ID=4^rc13-5.babycenter.com^1334891383^873463^89861; DOMAIN=.babycenter.com; PATH=/
Set-Cookie: SID=b913837346821420; DOMAIN=.babycenter.com; PATH=/

Measles Advertisement Search Home > Baby > Your baby's health > Send to a friend Printable version Share Reader comments Measles Approved by the BabyCenter Malaysia Medical Advisory Board Last reviewed: May 2011 [Show references] [Hide references] Is my baby at risk of getting measles? How can my baby catch measles? What are the symptoms of measles? How should I care for my baby if he has measles? Can measles cause any complications? Can I prevent my baby from developing measles if he's been exposed to the virus? When will my baby be offered a vaccination for measles? Is my baby at risk of getting measles? It is rare for children in Malaysia to get measles. This is because so many children are protected against measles by the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine. If your baby hasn't received the MMR, he does have a small chance of catching this nasty viral illness. Despite the low rate of measles in developed countries and many parts of the developing world, the disease still breaks out all over the globe. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), measles infects over 30 million people worldwide each year. In 2005, 345,000 people, the majority of them children, were killed by the disease. So it's important to immunise your baby. How can my baby catch measles? Measles is caused by the rubeola virus . When someone who has the virus sneezes or coughs, tiny droplets containing the virus spray into the air. The droplets stay active for two hours in the air or on a surface. If your baby comes into contact with these droplets he can become infected. If your baby isn't immunised and hasn't had measles before, he has a 90 per cent chance of getting the virus if he's exposed to it. Once your baby has caught the measles virus it can take about 10 days for him to show any symptoms (CKS 2009) . What are the symptoms of measles? If your baby has measles, his first symptoms can include: runny nose; fever of about 38 degrees C; cough; sore, red, swollen eyes; small white spots in his mouth. Three or four days after these symptoms, you will notice red spots behind your baby's ears and on his face and neck. As the rash appears, his fever may rise. The spots will spread over his body and develop a bumpy texture. The rash may be itchy, and will last about five days. As it fades, it will turn a brownish colour and leave your baby's skin dry and flaky. See a photo of a measles rash in our rashes and skin conditions gallery . Your baby may also feel sick and tired and have aches and pains in his muscles. His cough may become troublesome, too, which may disturb his sleep . How should I care for my baby if he has measles? If you think your baby has measles, contact your doctor or paediatrician straight away. Measles is a notifiable disease, which means your doctor will need to report it (NHS 2010) . Once your doctor has confirmed that your baby has measles, there's not much you can do to treat it. Measles is a virus , so it can't be treated with antibiotics (NHS 2010) . The illness just needs to run its course. Your baby should get better in a week or so. There are some steps you can take to make your baby more comfortable and speed his recovery: Make sure your baby gets plenty of rest and keep him away from nursery and other children until at least four days after he develops the rash (CKS 2009, HPA 2010) . Offer your baby plenty of fluids to bring down his fever and prevent dehydration . Offer him regular breastfeeds , or formula milk and extra cooled boiled water . Give your baby infant paracetamol or ibuprofen to ease his fever and aches and pains, but only if he is three months or older. Check the dosage information on the packet or ask your pharmacist or doctor if you are unsure how much to give your baby. To help relieve your baby's cough, place a bowl of warm water in his room to make it more humid. If your baby is one year or older, you could give him a honey and lemon drink. Mix one teaspoon of lemon juice with two teaspoons of honey into a glass of warm water. There's no evidence that giving your baby a cough medicine will help his cough (NHS 2010) . Can measles cause any complications? Most babies and children recover from measles without any complications. However, occasionally measles can cause other problems such as: diarrhoea ; vomiting ; an ear infection ; an eye infection ; a febrile convulsion ; a swollen throat (laryngitis). Take your baby to the doctor if you are worried he is developing other symptoms as well as measles. Can I prevent my baby from developing measles if he's been exposed to the virus? If your baby hasn't yet received the MMR vaccine but has been exposed to measles, the course of action will depend on his age. If your baby is younger than six months and you have had measles before, your antibodies will have passed to him in the uterus (womb). This should make him immune to the virus. If you've never had measles, and your baby is less than six months, he may be given an injection of human normal immunoglobin (HNIG) (NHS 2010) . HNIG is a concentration of antibodies which can give short-term but immediate protection against measles. If your baby is older than six months and has been exposed to the measles virus, he may be given a dose of the MMR vaccine. This can prevent the virus from developing (NHS 2010) . When will my baby be offered a vaccination for measles? When your baby is about 12 months old he will be offered the MMR vaccine as part of his routine immunisations . This is between 90 per cent and 95 per cent effective at protecting your baby against measles, as well as mumps and rubella. A second dose (booster) will be offered when your baby is between three and five years old. This will increase his protection to 99 per cent. References CKS. 2009. Clinical topic: Measles . NHS Clinical Knowledge Summaries. www.cks.nhs.uk [Accessed February 2011] HPA. 2010. Guidance on infection control in schools and other childcare settings . Heath Protection Agency. www.hpa.org.uk [Accessed February 2011] NHS. 2010. Measles . NHS Choices, Health A-Z. www.nhs.uk [Accessed February 2011] Reader comments If you have a question, or want to talk with others about this topic, visit our Community See all reader comments This week's hot topics Malaysiana Most popular Fun stuff Malaysiana Is there anything I can do to change my baby's complexion? Confinement taboos: Malay pantang and Chinese traditions Answers for new mum questions: Is it true....? and Is it normal....? Most popular Photos: Gorgeous children in cultural outfits , breastfeeding mums and more! Our guide to getting good help, from finding a maid to getting along. Baby traditions... cukur jambul , mun yuet party and mundan Fun stuff Read this to hubby: How to be the perfect Dad What special events happened on your baby's birth date? Find out with our birthday tool Who does your baby look like ? Versi Bahasa Semua rencana dan info Kehamilan Bayi Ramadan Komuniti Tools and calendars Ovulation calculator Due date calculator Pregnancy calendar Baby calendar Gender predictor Baby namer All our tools Baby names Baby namer Baby name ideas Things to consider Top Malaysian names Baby name polls All our baby name articles Favourites Fetal development Baby development Your stage Traditional Chinese medicine Family horoscopes BabyCenter A-Z Asian confinement Community Photos and videos Inside pregnancy videos Boy or girl video Labour and birth video Yoga videos See all our videos Fetal development photos How to massage your baby See all our photos Advertisement Family fun Is your mum the right person to help care for baby? What you need to know about relative care Our sponsors JOHNSON'S® Baby Baby’s First Bath No More Tears® Touching Bond Infant Massage Already registered? Log in here. Your Pregnancy Week by Week Subscribe to our free email newsletters that millions of parents rave about. Enter your due date or baby's birth date: dd 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 mm Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec yyyy 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 Trying to get pregnant? I'm trying to get pregnant What will your baby do this week? Our weekly stage-based newsletters help you understand your baby's development. What will your child do this month? Our regular bulletin emails contain lots of tips on starting and caring for your family See our privacy policy Advertisement Links: Balik kampung: Long-distance drives with baby in tow Chickenpox Common worries about immunisations When is your child too sick for nursery? Your baby in an extended family Topics: Go to our Your baby's health area. Talk about this topic Search our community to find others talking about this and more! &nbsp&nbsp About BabyCenter Contact us Privacy policy Terms of use About us FAQ Advertise with us BabyCenter shortcuts: Getting pregnant Pregnancy Baby Toddler Preschooler Mobile Homepage Community Baby names Pregnancy calendar Ovulation calculator Stages Our International sites BabyCenter Arabia (Arabic) BabyCenter Arabia (English) BabyCenter Australia BabyCenter Austria BabyCenter Brasil BabyCenter Canada BabyCenter China BabyCenter France BabyCenter Germany BabyCenter India BabyCenter Korea BabyCenter Philippines BabyCenter Russia BabyCenter Singapore BabyCenter Spain BabyCenter Spanish (US) BabyCenter Sweden BabyCenter Switzerland BabyCentre UK BabyCenter US (Community) Other sites powered by BabyCenter Baby.com Pregnancy.com All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 2012. All rights reserved. This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in terms of use . It is intended for visitors from Malaysia. This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult a doctor or another healthcare professional. Please review the terms of use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the terms of use . Getting pregnant All our getting pregnant info Ovulation calculator Before you begin Actively trying Suspecting a problem Fertility treatments Talk to other women Pregnancy All our pregnancy info Due date calculator Versi bahasa Traditional Chinese medicine Pregnancy health Fetal development Baby names Is it safe? Asian postnatal practices Labour & birth All our giving birth info Versi bahasa Planning birth Pain relief Giving birth Birth stories You after the birth Talk to other mums-to-be Baby All our baby info Baby development Newborn care Sleep Baby health Breastfeeding Starting solids Versi bahasa Asian postnatal practices Toddler All our toddler info Potty training Toddler sleep Toddler development Feeding your toddler Learning to talk Talk to other mums Preschooler All our preschooler info Behaviour problems Discipline strategies Preschooler health Games and play Talk to other mums Community Home Trying to co