Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 18:19:46 GMT
X-Varnish: 39980749
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Add spice to diet with a healthy dash of cinnamon
    
 | UTSanDiego.com Friday, March 2nd 2012 Login Create Account! Hello, Guest News Home News Local Topics Border & Baja Courts Education Health Immigration Government & politics Military Obits Public Safety Science & Environment Transportation Watchdog Columnists Diane Bell Tom Blair Logan Jenkins Local Communities San Diego North County East County South County Elsewhere California Nation U.S. Politics U-T in Afghanistan World Mexico & Latin America Sports Topics Padres Chargers Aztecs Toreros High School College Golf Horseracing MLB Motorsports NBA NFL NHL Other sports Outdoors Soccer Special Reports Tennis Columnists Nick Canepa Tim Sullivan Business Biotech Consumer Defense Economy Energy & Green Business Growth & Development Markets On The Move National business Personal Finance Real Estate Small Business Special Reports Technology & Telecom Tourism & restaurants Entertainment Calendar Classical Music Contests Dining & Drinking Events Brewery Rowe Books DiscoverSD Movies Music Theater & Arts TV & Radio Visual Arts Columnists Karla Peterson Lifestyle Food Home & Garden Making a Difference People Shopping & Deals Travel Guides Catering College Eldercare Kids Camps San Diego's Best 2011 Spas Opinion U-T Editorials Dialog Commentary Steve Breen Hot Seat Special Reports Letters to the editor Caption Contest Obits Deals Daily Deal Contests Email Alerts Classifieds Place an ad Pets Merchandise Obituaries Legal Contact Us Cars Sell your car Buy a car Research a car Finance Find a dealer Green Cars Contact Us Jobs Find a job Post your resume Employer Section Real Estate Resale homes New homes Rentals Foreclosures Open Homes Commercial Mortgages Place an ad Partners WS Radio San Diego Red Today's Paper Weather 57° F Traffic Surf Facebook Twitter Nutrition guidance from Palomar Pomerado Health Add spice to diet with a healthy dash of cinnamon Sweet antioxidant has been shown to ease pain, anxiety, stomach ills and bad breath Comments ( ) Share: Twitter Facebook Email Print Save By Halle Elbling 6 a.m., Feb. 28, 2012 Also see » Boy hurt in trash truck crash recovering Judge favors Tri-City in initial ruling More than 20 Leap Day babies born at Sharp Also of interest ADD SPICE TO DIET WITH A HEALTHY DASH OF CINNAMON Be sweet and treat your honey to a healthy bite Ethnic cuisines hold nutritious surprises BE SWEET AND TREAT YOUR HONEY TO A HEALTHY BITE Mediterranean diet good for the heart Cinnamon sticks make a fine tea. Getty Images Cinnamon is an ancient spice that has stood the test of time because of its fragrant aroma and sweet flavor. But did you know it has many health benefits? Using cinnamon in your diet can help fight disease. Cinnamon is high in the antioxidant polyphenol. One teaspoon has as much antioxidant capacity as a full cup of pomegranate juice or a half-cup of blueberries. Cinnamon may also be used to: • Soothe stomach and digestive complaints such as flatulence, indigestion, heartburn, nausea and stomach cramps. • Reduce pain caused by arthritis, rheumatism and muscle pain, due to its anti-inflammatory properties. • Reduce anxiety, depression and stress as it is a calming herb. • Relieve toothaches and freshen breath. Studies have shown that cinnamon can help regulate blood sugar levels for people with type 2 diabetes and help improve their response to insulin. In addition, cinnamon is a good source of manganese, iron and calcium, which are all vital minerals required for a healthy body. Cinnamon comes in the forms of cinnamon stick and ground cinnamon powder and hails from the bark of the cinnamon tree. Two main types of cinnamon are used in cooking today. True cinnamon, which has a lighter, sweeter and more delicate flavor, is used in all types cakes, biscuits, crumbles and breads. Cinnamon from the cassia tree is spicier and more pungent than true cinnamon and is preferred in exotic meat dishes, curries and other savory foods. Using cinnamon in the kitchen can be an exciting and delicious experience. Here are more ways to add this ancient spice to your healthy diet: • Add cinnamon to homemade biscuits, nut bread and fruitcake. • Add a little to a breakfast fruit smoothie. • Sprinkle on an apple crumble or in applesauce. • Add to low-fat ice cream or yogurt. • Add to oatmeal or dry wheat cereal. • Sprinkle on low-fat hot chocolate or warm milk (or use a cinnamon stick to stir). • Add to sweeten rice, or chopped fruit and nuts. • Use cinnamon sticks to make tea. • Add to coffee instead of sugar. • Add to sweet potatoes, acorn squash or pumpkin vegetable dishes. • Use cinnamon for hot beef or chicken curries dishes. • Add ground cinnamon to stewed apples, pears, prunes and apricots. • Sprinkle over low-fat cottage cheese on top of a whole wheat English muffin or whole wheat toast. • Add to low-fat puddings. • Use in marinades or sauces for meat, chicken or fish. Halle Elbling is a registered dietitian and certified diabetes educator at Palomar Pomerado Health. Comments ( ) Complete terms » Be relevant, respectful, honest, discreet and responsible. Most Popular Most Recent Dielman bids farewell in emotional ceremony SDSU football player charged with felonies SDSU dismisses Baxter from team Elderly couple found dead in La Jolla home A look at Chargers odds 'n' ends after Combine More Head of San Diego’s FBI office to retire Broken hydrant sends water into hospital Fire in Point Loma displaces two Man accused of vandalizing car stabbed Woman found in Pacific Beach nearly naked, unconscious More Today's Paper SYRIAN REBELS WITHDRAW FROM ENCLAVE IN HOMS AFTER ... NEW PUSH FOR MEDAL OF HONOR RALLIES AT COLLEGES PROTEST FISCAL CUTS TEACHERS UNIONS OPPOSED HEALTH OVERHAUL OBAMA BIRTH CERTIFICATE DÉJÀ VU BUZZ WORTHY Videos » Kris Dielman retires Combine 2012: Quarterbacks Examples: auto repair , hotel , restaurant Hoehn Audi 5215 Car Country Dr, Carlsbad, CA, 92008 888-263-5552 Contacts » R.J. Ignelzi Email R.J. Call: 760-752-6757 Facebook: SDUTHealth Janet Lavelle Email Janet Call: 619-293-1850 Facebook: SDUTHealth Jim Watters Email Jim Call: 619-293-2156 Twitter: @sdutWatters Things to do » Add an Event More to do Movies Restaurants On Facebook » advertisement Resources Find Self Storage Home News Sports Business Entertainment Lifestyle Opinion Obits Deals Classifieds Cars Jobs Real Estate Partners Services Today's Paper E-Edition (replica) Customer Service Your subscription Subscribe Subscription help Vacation stop Archives Buy U-T photos Contests Newspaper in Education Tools Business listings Special ad sections Newsletters Text alerts Forums Crossword Sudoku Horoscope Weather Traffic Surf Gas prices Lottery About Contact us Advertise with us Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Mobile 10News.com DiscoverSD.com Connect with us Facebook Twitter U-T San Diego © 1995-2012 The San Diego Union-Tribune, LLC | An MLIM Company | All R