The Natural way to lower your Cholesterol – Exercise | Make Health Happen - Hospitalroad.com
Tuesday, April 23, 2019
Tuesday, April 23, 2019
Home
Beauty
Dental Care
Health and Fitness
Health Tips
Healthy Food
Supplements
Weight Lose
Women’s Health
Breaking News
Here are those skincare tips which you must follow: Start from Significant basics
7 Most Common Causes Of Depression
3 Benefits That a Thai Massage Can Provide For Your Mind And Your Body.
The Secret To Taking Care Of the Elderly From The Comforts of Home
A Short Guide to Spinal Muscular Atrophy
Health Benefits an Air Purifier That Will Make You Think Twice
Get The Best Varicose Veins Treatment By Using Skilled Doctors
Everyone Needs To Have Someone Taking Care Of And Looking Out For Them In The UK.
The Main Benefits Of Good Dental Health
Tazorak in the Treatment of Psoriasis
Home
Weight Lose
The Natural way to lower your Cholesterol – Exercise
Weight Lose
The Natural way to lower your Cholesterol – Exercise
By Roger Barnay on October 1, 2015
0 700 Views
High levels of cholesterol are a major risk factor for heart disease and stroke. Although it can be inherited, the kind of lifestyle we follow plays a major role. A lifestyle change is the healthier option to keep your cholesterol levels at check rather than medications. Exercise helps to control weight, which in turn helps to lower cholesterol levels.
Regular exercise increases the HDL (good cholesterol) levels which prevents fatty deposits from blocking or lining artery walls and moves the fatty deposits to the liver. 30 minutes a day of moderate intensity exercise like walking, cycling and swimming helps lower cholesterol levels
How Exercise Helps
There are several mechanisms involved in the lowering of cholesterol levels. There are certain enzymes that are stimulated by exercise. These enzymes help to move the LDL (bad cholesterol) from the blood stream to the liver. The liver converts the cholesterol to bile which is either digested or excreted. So, more exercise means more disposal of LDL from the body.
Moreover exercise also increases the protein particle (lipoprotein) size that carries the cholesterol through the blood. The dense particles are the LDL and the big, fluffy ones are the HDL. The small dense particles are more dangerous as they can squeeze into the blood vessels and the linings of the heart and set up blocks there. Exercise helps increase the lipoprotein size of both the good and bad cholesterols.
More vigorous exercise is considered better for lowering cholesterol. It raises the levels of HDL, the good type of lipoprotein that helps clear out the cholesterol and also lowers the levels of LDL. According to findings by researchers at Duke University Medical Center, moderate exercise was not as effective in increasing HDL or reducing LDL, but it kept the cholesterol levels from rising. Therefore, some exercise is better than none at all, in fact, we believe the more, the better.
The effects of exercise on cholesterol levels are also a matter of debate. Studies have shown people with the worst diets and exercise routines have benefitted the most. Some people have increased the HDL by 20% and lowered the LDL by 10 – 15%
Getting started with Exercise
It is important to start exercising slowly, if you haven’t already. Your cardiovascular health should be checked by a treadmill test or blood tests to check how your heart responds when you exercise. Once you are cleared to begin exercising, certain guidelines should be followed:
A moderate form of exercise that can be done in 10 – 20 minutes should be chosen such as walking, swimming, cycling or jogging.
Even while doing a moderate exercise, the amount of time spend for exercising should be more. Brisk walking for 10 minutes each time can be done three times.
Doing an activity that you love is a good way to have fun while exercising. It could be walking your dog, playing a sport with children, swimming, or cycling. Finding a friend to do exercise with makes it more interesting.
Of course, exercise alone won’t guarantee a low cholesterol level. Age, weight, genes, gender and diet all contribute to a person’s lipid profile. For further information about exercise routines and personal health management plans, talk to our experts at Fitness19 today.
Weight Lose
Previous Post
Tips to Reinvent a Younger Self
Next Post
4 Awesome Weight Loss Tips for Better Weight Loss Results
Related Posts
February 6, 2019
Important Tips For Fat Burning
December 10, 2018
What Are The Advantages Of Lipo-Light Over Invasive Procedures
September 6, 2018
Joining a Local Gym Can Help You to Shed That Extra Weight
Leave a comment
Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Search
Recent Comments
Adam Nicolason (lifechangescanada) | Pearltrees on Drug Rehab in Mississauga: Forms of Drug Rehab Available
Drug Rehab in Mississauga: Forms of Drug Rehab ... on Drug Rehab in Mississauga: Forms of Drug Rehab Available
Top 3 Benefits of visiting a professional skin ... on Top 3 Benefits of visiting a professional skin clinic in London
Categories
Beauty
Dental Care
Health and Fitness
Health Tips
Healthy Food
Supplements
Weight Lose
Women's Health
What's Hot
January 16, 2017
Drug Rehab in Mississauga: Forms of Drug Rehab Available
2
October 17, 2016
7 Tips to Find a Good Laser Hair Removal Clinic
2
October 15, 2016
Addiction Rehab – How to Choose
2
Load More
Follow Us
28562 fans 261 followers 0 followers
Our Latest Tweets
Tiger Woods has already done the impossible. He made me get up early to watch golf.
14-Apr-2019
Fingers crossed this new Star Wars movie finally brings closure to the whole issue of trade route taxation.
12-Apr-2019
I will withhold judgment until we hear from Carmen Electra. https://t.co/ATJEsfOwP6
11-Apr-2019
Scientists unveil first image of Twitter. https://t.co/fnUFB1Og0v
10-Apr-2019
wtf, mueller report also says barbra streisand made some good points!?
24-Mar-2019
Copyright © 2017 hospitalroad.com. All rights reserved.
About US
Contact US