Got High Cholesterol? Lower It With These Tips - 39 for Life
Trending
Myra Rahe is living in color
Measles: what you need to know
4 ways germs help your body
The ultimate guide to controlling arthritis
Anti-aging secrets that never get old
Reasons why your workout is taking a beating
April is Distracted Driving Month
15 Super Fun Easter Activities for Your Facility Party
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Instagram
youtube
RSS
Navigate
Home
Why We Care
Wellness Center
Fitness
Healthy Living
For Caring Professionals
Lifestyle
39 for Life on YouTube
Deals and Steals
Love and Relationships
Mind
Money
Product Reviews
Entertainment
Book Reviews
Movie Reviews
Television Series Reviews
Contact Us
Meet the Experts
You are at:Home»Wellness Center»Healthy Living»Got High Cholesterol? Lower It With These Tips
Got High Cholesterol? Lower It With These Tips
0
By Amy Osmond on	 March 19, 2019 Healthy Living
You may high cholesterol and not even know it.
More than 30 percent of adults in the United States have high cholesterol, but only half of them are getting treatment for the condition. These numbers should be frightening because high cholesterol is one of the biggest risks for heart disease.
Lowering your cholesterol should be a priority if it is at dangerous levels. Here are a few things to know about cholesterol and how you can lower it.
What is cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a substance that is found throughout the body and is necessary for various functions. The body produces some cholesterol, and it is also ingested with food. The so-called “bad cholesterol” is LDL cholesterol, which can form plaque in the arteries if it is too high. HDL cholesterol is known as “good cholesterol” and helps to remove LDL cholesterol from arteries.
Generally, LDL cholesterol levels should remain low, while high levels of HDL are good. Together, a healthy total cholesterol level should be less than 170 mg/dL, and anything over 200 mg/dL is too high.
Lower your cholesterol through diet
A good diet is one of the best ways to achieve healthy cholesterol levels. Eating the right foods can not only lower LDL cholesterol, but it can also raise HDL levels. Consider a diet low in fat, especially animal fats that are high in cholesterol. Eat more fiber, fruits and vegetables, and cut back on sweets.
“Dietary changes are a crucial way to help keep LDL cholesterol levels down,” says Marissa Padilla, administrator at Castle Manor Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation. “Cut back on saturated fats by eating limited amounts of red meat and avoiding processed foods. Stick to healthier unsaturated fats, which you can find in olive oil, fish, avocados and other sources.”
Exercising can help bring cholesterol down
Starting an exercise program can help you lose weight and lower your cholesterol. It won’t take much to see a difference in your cholesterol levels — as little as a 5 percent weight loss can change your cholesterol numbers. Exercise also helps to raise your HDL numbers. A variety of exercise programs will be beneficial, so just aim for 30 minutes of exercise on most days.
Get more sleep
Your body needs adequate sleep to recharge and for some functions to perform properly. Research has shown that not getting enough sleep could affect your cholesterol levels. One study found that people who slept less than seven hours each night had lower HDL levels. So If you’re a night owl who still needs to be at work by 9 every day, it’s time to bite the bullet and set yourself a bedtime.
Medication may be needed
Changing your diet and adding more exercise should be the first choice in lowering your cholesterol, but it may not be enough for some people. In some cases, people may have a genetic predisposition for higher LDL cholesterol. These people may eat a healthy diet, but their body continues to make too much LDL cholesterol. If diet and exercise are not enough to bring your cholesterol levels into a healthy range, medication may be needed to lower your LDL cholesterol.
High cholesterol should scare you, but lowering it shouldn’t feel like an impossible task. Any steps you take toward lower cholesterol will be beneficial, so get your cholesterol checked and start managing it today.
This article was originally published by the Daily Herald.
aging diet exercise medication sleep stress treatment
Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email
About Author
Amy Osmond
Related Posts
April 18, 2019 0
Measles: what you need to know
April 18, 2019 0
4 ways germs help your body
April 14, 2019 0
The ultimate guide to controlling arthritis
Comments are closed.
Popular
Recent
Top Reviews
April 22, 2019 0
Myra Rahe is living in color
April 12, 2019 0
Anti-aging secrets that never get old
April 10, 2019 0
April is Distracted Driving Month
April 22, 2019 0
Myra Rahe is living in color
April 18, 2019 0
Measles: what you need to know
April 18, 2019 0
4 ways germs help your body
October 18, 2018 0
Why Seniors’ Increasing Use of Internet Is Good for Brands
July 26, 2018 0
Book Review: A Gentleman in Moscow
June 20, 2018 0
Movie Review: ‘A Year by the Sea’
Follow Us on Youtube
39 for Life | YouTube Channel
Follow Us on Pinterest
About
We believe good health and wellness is something we never outgrow. 39 for Life is committed to providing information and resources that promote good health in all areas of our lives. By enhancing wellness in our spirit, relationships, our body, and our financial well-being, we are encompassing good health that lasts a lifetime.
Email
Popular Posts
April 22, 2019 0
Myra Rahe is living in color
April 18, 2019 0
Measles: what you need to know
April 18, 2019 0
4 ways germs help your body
GALLERY
Privacy Policy
Resources
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2016 39 for Life with Dr. Osmond.