Alternative Uses for Baking Soda
hoarding baking soda for survival
To keep lard sweet and to make it white. When the fat is ready
to boil, add to it some of the Arm and Hammer soda (or
Saleratus) ~ about tow or three heaping teaspoonfuls to every
ten gallons of fat. The effect will be wonderful. It will renter the
lard white and prevent it from becoming rancid. If no soda has
been used in making the lard, and it should become strong during
the warm weather,it should be reboiled and the soda added a t
the moment of boilings. Ths will bring the lard back to its natural
sweetness. A little more or less soda will not injure the quality of
the lard."
Baking Soda Use #5: Put some on a toothbrush.
Baking soda both disinfects your toothbrush and cleans your
teeth, so get used to the taste! While baking soda makes an
excellent toothpaste, some choose to mix it with coconut oil to
make it tastier, or hydrogen peroxide to help whiten their teeth.
Both homemade toothpaste recipes will help you whiten your
teeth and keep them fresh. The reason why baking soda is better
than fluoride (by all means avoid fluoride) is that baking soda is a
natural antiseptic.
Baking Soda Use #6: Soak it in the wash.
Washing your clothes could prove challenging in a disaster
situation, but with baking soda, you'll help brighten your clothes
and remove odors simultaneously. That will extend your laundry
detergent. Add a half a cup of baking soda to your wash.
Baking Soda Use #7: Pat some on your skin.
Baking soda is a deodorant, so throw a bit of baking soda under
your arm pits to stay fresh in a disaster situation.
Wash your face and scrub your elbows: Baking soda,
through ex foliation, can help improve your skin texture, so
go ahead and wash your face with the stuff. Exfoliation
removes dead skin cells from the epidermis.) Mix baking
soda with lemons to ex foliate and soften scaly elbows and
chapped heals.
Soothe the bug bites: Make a paste of baking soda on apply
directly to any rash area or use it as a balm for bug bites.
Ideal for treating poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and
prickly heat. It can also help heal sunburns.
Soak your tootsies! Epsom salt works wonders for your feet
to relieve aches and pains, but if you don't have any handy,
then get out the baking soda!
Baking Soda Use #8: Swallow it (as an antacid).
One of the least know ways to use baking soda is as an
antacid. Quite simply, baking soda relieves indigestion
naturally.Baking soda works as an antacid. Check the label of
your baking soda for "pure baking soda" and you will find a "Drug
fact" chart on the box: you'll ind pure baking soda is an antacid!
As an antacid, baking soda also has a medicinal use. Some say it
relieves heartburn or indigestion. Take small amounts (1/4
teaspoon in a glass of water).
Baking Soda Use #9: Put some in a shoe!
Baking soda is a natural odor fighter for stinky feet. Sprinkle
baking in your shoes to keep the smells at bay. Any parent of a
teenager with stinky sneakers will attest that this is a survival
tactic! Seriously, during the Great Depression, people did extra
ordinary things to extend the life of shoes and a sprinkle of
baking soda is a shoe-in for extending the wear of the shoe.
Baking Soda Use #10: Swab soda on your fruits and
veggies.
Baking soda is a wonderful way to clean fruits and vegetables.
Sprinkle it on with water as a gentle scrub -- even on tomatoes!
Baking Soda Use #11: Wash away the acidity of
coffee and tea, works to get rid of stains too!
Just sprinkle baking soda in with your coffee before it percolates.
This process will clean your coffee maker and help reduce the
acidity of your coffee without affecting the flavor.
You also can wipe away coffee and tea stains on your white
porcelain coffee and teacups. Just rinse the cup, then sprinkle
baking soda. You can even wipe away the stains using the baking
soda and your fingers. It's amazing!
Baking soda is also handy to help clean up vomit.
Baking Soda Use #12: Sprinkle in your eggs to make
them fluffy!
Baking soda will also make your omelets more fluffy! This isn't
necessarily a survival technique if you think of it in ordinary
terms; however, in times of crisis it's the little things that can
provide the edge. Fluffy eggs will be a morale booster!
Baking Soda Use #13: Whack the weeds away.
Reader's Digest says Baking soda will help you get rid of weeds.
Baking soda is an effective way to safely "keep weeds and
grasses from growing in the cracks of your paved patios,
driveways, and walkways," .
Baking Soda Use #14: Un-radiate yourself!
radiation remedDid you know that the United States used
bicarbonate to protect the kidneys from radiation damage?
Sodium bicarbonate "qualifies as a survival medicine," according
to a full Medical Review by Mark Sircus. "... in case of nuclear
attack you will want quite a bit of it on hand to protect your
kidneys and other sensitive tissues."
Director International Medical Veritas Association, Doctor of
Oriental and Pastoral Medicine explains How to reduce
Radiation Damage with Sodium Bicarbonate.
Baking Soda Use #15: Mix a mouthwash.
Because baking soda helps balance PH levels to alkanize your
body, it makes an excellent mouthwash. As a gargle with baking
soda water can also help minimize the symptoms of a sore throat
or persistent cough.
Sore throat mouthwash. Ease sore throats with baking
soda. To make a mouthwash, mix several teaspoons of
baking soda with water.
Baking soda Use #16: Nix the nausea.
Certainly, baking soda is a hangover helper, but it also reduces
nausea and upset stomach, indigestion, and dyspepsia, thanks
again to its ph-balancing properties.
Nausea: Here's how to use baking soda to deal with nausea.
Too late and dealing with vomit? Sprinkle baking soda on
the affected area (carpet, bedding, sofa, etc.) to start
neutralizing the problem so you can tackle the mess later.
Baking Soda Use #17: Fix the fungi!
According to Web MD, Baking soda has mild antiseptic properties.
Yes, baking soda can kill some kinds of parasites, fungi, and mold!
Baking soda easily absorbs and eliminates odors from smoke,
mold and mildew.
Baking Soda Use #18: Heal the heartburn.
Relief for heartburn is just a recipe away if you have your trusty
package of baking soda.
Here is the baking soda recipe to relieve heartburn. The
instructions on the Arm & Hammer Web site also come with some
medical disclaimers as some people should not use this antacid,
including children under five years, people with sodium
restrictions and people on certain medications.
Baking Soda Use #20: Sniff out the swine flu.
Treat swine flu? People today are continually hopeful to credit
baking soda as a cure for disease and infections** and perhaps it
is effective towards fighting infections, such as swine flu, and
preventing diseases such a cancer:
Baking soda has a history to treat flu symptoms. In 1924
Arm & Hammer produced a booklet that claimed its product
would minimize flu symptoms. The booklet said that "rarely
any one who had been thoroughly alkalinized with
bicarbonate of soda contracted the disease." There are
people who ingest baking soda in small amounts to keep
blood alkaline levels in check.*
Baking Soda Use #21: Put your Ph in Balance!
Sodium bicarbonate is nature's unique first aid remedy!
For years, sodium bicarbonate has been used on a daily basis as
part of a number of hospital treatments, but most people remain
unaware of its full therapeutic potential. In his new book, Sodium
Bicarbonate, Nature's Unique First Aid Remedy, pictured
immediate right Dr. Mark Sircus shows how this common
compound may be used in the alleviation, or possibly even
prevention, of many forms of illness.
Sodium bicarbonate can play an important role in achieving
optimal pH balance, which is also revealed in the book, pictured
right by Dr. Mark Sircus as an important factor in maintaining
good health.
Having the proper pH may benefit:
cancer prevention and recovery
fungal infection
heart burn
hypertension
kidney disease
influenza (and swine flu!)
Baking soda use #22: cancel the cancer.
Baking soda just may be the cure for cancer. Baking soda
improves PH balance to make your body alkaline. If you're looking
for natural healing methods and alternative cancer treatments,
then look to baking soda.
Learn more about the The Health Benefits of Baking Soda
(and one man's story about how his Stage 4 Cancer Gone
With Baking Soda Treatment).
Baking soda use #23: keep the pressure off salt
(blood pressure).
Baking soda consumption in a sodium bicarbonate-rich mineral
water can help elderly with high blood pressure to not have to
worry about their salt intake! So says a study published in the U.
S. National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health. Their
conclusion: " Sodium bicarbonate-rich mineral water in conjunction
with a low-salt diet may have a beneficial effect on calcium
homeostasis."
Baking soda use #24: spike sports performance.
Baking soda is a performance enhancing substance. Did you know
baking soda is a performance enhancer for athletes? That alone
should influence preppers to take on the powers. Loughborough
University reported in the June issue of the International Journal
of Sports Medicine that swimmers who took baking soda an hour
before a 200-meter event shaved off a significant time off their
usual performances! Pack some in your bugout bag!
Baking Soda and Baking Powder
Wondering what's the difference between baking
soda and baking powder?
Don't mix up baking powder, which is entirely different from
baking soda! Learn more about the differences below. You'll want
to pay careful attention when baking because there is a difference
as to when to use baking soda or baking powder; however, let's
start with what's the same. They are both leavening agents! So
what makes them different?
Baking soda (great for cookies) has only "Bicarbonate Of
Soda," which is a leavening agent. When baking soda mixes
with acidic ingredients like honey or buttermilk, the chemical
reaction is carbon dioxide. The micro bubbles expand under
heat, which causes cookies to rise. When you use baking
soda, bake immediately after mixing the ingredients because
the reaction happens immediately.
Clabber Girl baking powder is one of the oldest
American food brands still in use. It includes sodium
Aluminum sulfate.
Bob's Red Mill Baking Powder contains deposits of
mineralized sodium bicarbonate. Made in a process that
uses no chemicals, it's aluminum free. Bobs Red Mill
Baking powder keeps best in the refrigerator. Bob' Red
Mill Baking Powder is made without aluminum! In fact,
it's one of the few aluminum-free, non-GMO baking
powders on the market.
NOTE: Baking powder comes in two forms: single acting
powders and double acting.
PREPPER TIP: Make your own baking powder! The secret
is mixing baking soda with cream of tartar and cornstarch. In
a pinch, you can make your own baking powder. Save this
recipe for inclusion in your personal survival manual.
Generic or Name Brand? Baking soda or Baking Powder
When it comes to buying baking soda, most of the generics
are just fine; however you want one that's free of aluminum.
Look for Bob's Red Mill (aluminum-free baking soda).
Baking soda found at the Dollar Tree store was made in the U.S.
A. by Karlin Foods Corp in Northfield, Illinois. (It's not made in
China.) There is only one ingredient in the famous stuff or the
generic: sodium bicarbonate. This is a natural product, so buy it
worry free. You may like to pay more close attention to baking
powder, which has more ingredients, and which may contain
aluminum, which you may like to avoid. Another reason you may
like to avoid a non-organic baking powder is that it may contain
corn starch, and 88% of the corn products on the market are
genetically modified.
How do baking soda and baking powder work differently?
Baking soda requires another ingredient to make the leavening
process activate, while baking powder already has acidic
compound, such as cream of tartar. Baking powder does not need
any substance for the leavening process. Because baking soda
has no leavening power of its own and requires molasses, yogurt
or buttermilk to make batter rise. Be sure to stock molasses and
cook with molasses, particularly if you don't have dairy cows or
goats.
Prepare to live happily ever after with baking soda. Now that you
know about the benefits of baking soda to preppers you'll want to
stock up. Be sure also to get your free Google Book.
Free Google Book on Baking Soda: Arm & Hammer Soda Book
of Valuable Recipes
Why hoard baking soda?
Baking soda is as important today as it was hundreds or even
thousands of years ago:
Egyptians used natron in ways beyond mummification.
Natron is a mineral salt found in dried salt lake beds of the
Natron Valley, which consisted of hydrated sodium
carbonate. Mostly used as a soap, sometimes for
mummification, Egyptians certainly were aware of the power
of natron for preservation, but there were many other
household and beauty uses, along with spiritual ones.
Egyptians mixed natron with oil as an early form of soap,
and blended it with ash as a bath salt, and they used natron
to clean teeth. It may also have been effective, if painful,
method of cleansing minor cuts and wounds. Egyptians also
used natron to get rid of vermin in the household. Natron
was also important to art as they mixed pigments.
Pioneers packed around two pounds of saleratus* (a
leavening product equivalent to baking soda) for their six-
month journey along the Oregon trail. Pioneers used baking
soda not only as leavening agent for baking, but also for
tonics to cure various ailments. They baked bread, biscuits,
rolls, cakes, cornbread, Johnny cakes, waffles, pie crusts,
cookies and crackers, puddings, soufflés, and so much more.
Both baking soda and baking powder have a happy place on the
supply shelf and pantry of the prepared prepper.
Happy endings...
Did we forget to tell you that you can use baking soda for baking?
Bake bread, biscuits, rolls, cakes, cookies cornbread, pies,
pancakes, waffles and more with baking soda! Plus, you can make
gravies, thicken stews and fry with it. Need we say more. Baking
soda is #37 on the list of 37 foods to hoard before crisis.
More prepping articles....
10 Prepping "must have" cans
12 lessons from the Depression
37 Things (non-food) to stockpile
Prepping the Dollar stores
Prepper's TO DO list
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Saleratus is sodium or potassium bicarbonate used as a leavening agent. As with Saleratus,
baking soda has no leavening power of its own and requires molasses, yogurt or buttermilk to
make batter rise.
** For any health or dietary matter, consult your Doctor before using. These products are not
intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. For any health or dietary matter, always
consult your physician. This information is intended for your general knowledge only and is not a
substitute for professional medical advice or treatment for specific medical conditions. Never
disregard or delay in seeking medical advice when available. As a reminder, these statements
about extracts have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
Prepare to live happily ever after with us at happypreppers.com - the emergency
preparedness Web site of prepping, survival, homesteading, and self-reliance.
Baking Soda
Organic Baking Soda
50-lbs Baking Soda Bucket
Bob's Red Baking Powder
Classic baking powder
Baking Powder
Baking Soda Bonanza, 2nd Edition
Sodium Bicarbonate - Full Medical Review
Sodium Bicarbonate: Nature's Remedy
50 lb Pail of Pure Sodium Carbonate
Baking Soda Bonanza (Kindle)
PH 1-14 Test Paper Litmus Strips
Arm & Hammer Pure Baking Soda
Is baking soda important to
hoard? Read cracked.com in
their article on the- 6 Odd
Things Doomsday Preppers
Stockpile (That Make Sense.
------------------------------------------------- Revised 04/10/19
(C) Copyright 2012-2019 by HappyPreppers.com. All rights reserved. The site happily targets concerned
citizens who are self-reliant survivalists, preppers and homesteaders with original content on survival following
societal collapse. You may link to our site, but you may NOT reproduce any part of our content, or store our
content in any retrieval system to represent it as your own. Further, you may not transmit content in any other
form or by any means, including (but not limited to) electronic, photocopy, mechanical, or recording without written
consent. HappyPreppers.com makes no warranties.
HappyPreppers.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising
program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com,
amazonsupply.com, or myhabit.com. Amazon is a great place to buy emergency supplies. In other words, we
recommend prepping gear sold on Amazon. It's a great place to shop.
Get prepared! Read more emergency preparedness information on our home page.
This article on the many uses preppers have for baking soda has been archived by waybackmachine.org and
Saved 52 times between August 7, 2012 and April 10, 2019. This helps protect our copyright.
Do NOT copy. Linking is okay.
sitemap
privacy policy
Bob's RedMill Prime Pantry Price
Prepper Deal Alerts Check
our daily deals for prepping
gear and food storage.
Baking Soda #10 can
Emergency water pouches
Baking Soda for Preppers
Learn the many uses preppers have for baking soda
Alternative uses for baking soda.
In the back corner of your refrigerator rests a mighty box, possibly
with the logo of an arm and hammer. Humble, yet strong, this
natural salt is a powerhouse, and it is especially important to
preppers.
Baking soda has been important to man since antiquity.
Egyptians used natron (a second cousin to baking soda - hydrated
sodium carbonate), settlers travelled hundreds of miles for
saleratus (potassium carbonate), and today we have many names
for this crystalline white substance.
Bicarbonate of soda (or sodium bicarbonate), better known as
baking soda, is a pantry staple that's an often overlooked
component of preparedness. Baking soda goes well beyond its
use as a leavening product for baking no yeast breads.
Why Prepper's Hoard Baking Soda
Why do preppers hoard baking soda? Baking soda has a multitude
of uses, but we've narrowed the list to uses most appreciated by
preppers...
Baking Soda Use #1: Slug a slug with it.
If slugs are bugging you in the garden, then know baking soda
will kill slugs. Just pour baking soda on top of the little pests
(salt will do the same trick). Baking soda also deters ants!
(Baking soda is a deter-ant!)
Baking Soda Use #2: Throw it on the fire!
In prepping times, your water is valuable. Baking soda will help
you extinguish flames, so have some handy in the kitchen or on
your next camping trip.
Here's how baking soda works to extinguish flames... In
throwing baking soda directly on flames, you'll produce
carbon dioxide and this starves the fire of oxygen. Baking
soda decomposes to soda ash, water and carbon dioxide.
Baking soda will clean your grill as well! Make a paste with a bit
of water to scrub the grills clean.
Baking Soda Use #3: Sprinkle it in a stinky bucket or
garbage pail.
Baking soda neutralizes odors! This bit of knowledge for preppers
will help keep down the stench of the garbage bins and sanitation
buckets.
Baking Soda Use #4: Make lard last longer, keep it
white!
Keeping lard sweet and white using baking soda is something
easily accomplished with baking soda! Here's' a vintage ad
explaining...