Breastfeeding while pregnant
View Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC's video on Breastfeeding while pregnant...
Breastfeeding while pregnant | Kids in the House
Skip to main content
Loading...
About Us
Login
Create new account
Search
Open Menu
Home
Top Videos
Experts
Parent to Parent
Blogs
Premium
Top Products
All Parents
Pregnancy
Adoption
Baby
Toddler
Preschool
Elementary
Teen
Special Needs
Home » BABY » Breastfeeding » Articles on 5596 and Node
step2
validation reminder
Breastfeeding while pregnant
GET ACCESS TO ALL PREMIUM CONTENT WITH NO ADS FOR $4.99/MONTH
Watch Later
5596
Comment
330
Like
330
Transcription:
Many people think that one of the many advantages to breastfeeding is that it is a great source of contraception. In fact, women can get pregnant while they're exclusively breastfeeding, it does happen. Then the question becomes for a lot of moms, "If I am pregnant, can I continue to breastfeed or do I need to ween?" What happens often is that if you are pregnant, your milk supply will go down, and sometimes significantly. If the baby is under a year, often the mother can continue to breastfeed but she needs to supplement with formula because the baby's not getting enough to eat. If the baby's over a year and eating other foods, often mothers can continue to breastfeed without using formula. One challenge is the nipples tend to be really tender when women are pregnant and if you put a nursing toddler on top of those nipples, it can be quite a challenge. Some physicians are concerned that breastfeeding while pregnant may increase the risk of miscarriage, so that's something a mother would need to discuss with her doctor to see if she's a good candidate to continue nursing while she's pregnant.
Video Categories: BABY, Breastfeeding, Breastfeeding Challenges
Login or Register to view and post comments
<> Embed Codes
View Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC's video on Breastfeeding while pregnant...
Related Videos
Transcript
Expert Bio
More from Expert
Related Videos
More by Expert
Tips for low breast milk supply Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Baby bites during breastfeeding Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Natural supplements to increase breast milk flow Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Nipple blisters and breastfeeding Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Treating mastitis Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
What causes mastitis? Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Medications to increase milk production Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Issues and solutions for excess breastmilk production Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Donor Breastmilk Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Is night breastfeeding necessary? Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Meet Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Alcohol consumption and breastfeeding safety
Baby bites during breastfeeding
Breast pump recommendations
Breastfeeding twins
Breastfeeding while pregnant
Breastmilk storage facts and tips
Donor Breastmilk
Is night breastfeeding necessary?
Is okay to top-off with formula after I breastfeed?
Issues and solutions for excess breastmilk production
Medications to increase milk production
Natural supplements to increase breast milk flow
Nipple blisters and breastfeeding
Resolving a nursing strike
Tips for deciding how long to breastfeed your child
Tips for low breast milk supply
Tips on weaning your baby from breastfeeding
Treating mastitis
Ways to help a gassy baby
What causes mastitis?
What is thrush and how should it be treated?
When can I supplement with a bottle if I breastfeed?
View the discussion thread.
Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC
Lactation Specialist
Wendy Haldeman, MN, RN, IBCLC is a co-founder of the Pump Station and Nurtury. She received both her nursing and lactation education at UCLA, is an International Board Certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC), and a certified Happiest Baby on the Block instructor. She lectures frequently on human lactation at medical and nursing schools and has been identified by publications, such as Fit Pregnancy, as an expert in her field. Wendy facilitates the New Mother Support groups, and teaches the prenatal Breastfeeding and Baby Care Classes at The Pump Station. She and her husband Tim are proud of their two grown daughters and their 15 month old granddaughter.
Parenting expert on: Breastfeeding, Breastfeeding Challenges, Mother’s Diet, Breastfeeding Tips
More Parenting Videos from Wendy Haldeman, RN, MN, IBCLC >
FREE
Top Ten
Breastfeeding Tips Enter your email to
download & subscribe
to our newsletter
Listen or Watch
Must See First Year Videos
Three important rules about your baby's first foods
First year milestones
Postnatal depression and loneliness advice
Baby losing interest in nursing
The importance of spending quality time during early childhood
Narrating an infant's environment
Research based benefits of co-sleeping
Bonding versus attachment
Bonding with your baby after a less-than-perfect birth
Preventing postpartum depression
Play All 34 Videos
Featured Experts: Alan Greene, MD, Lawrence Kagan, MD, Barbara Olinger, MSW
More Playlists >
Transcription:
Many people think that one of the many advantages to breastfeeding is that it is a great source of contraception. In fact, women can get pregnant while they're exclusively breastfeeding, it does happen. Then the question becomes for a lot of moms, "If I am pregnant, can I continue to breastfeed or do I need to ween?" What happens often is that if you are pregnant, your milk supply will go down, and sometimes significantly. If the baby is under a year, often the mother can continue to breastfeed but she needs to supplement with formula because the baby's not getting enough to eat. If the baby's over a year and eating other foods, often mothers can continue to breastfeed without using formula. One challenge is the nipples tend to be really tender when women are pregnant and if you put a nursing toddler on top of those nipples, it can be quite a challenge. Some physicians are concerned that breastfeeding while pregnant may increase the risk of miscarriage, so that's something a mother would need to discuss with her doctor to see if she's a good candidate to continue nursing while she's pregnant.
Video Categories: BABY, Breastfeeding, Breastfeeding Challenges
©2019 kidsinthehouse.com. 310–899-6026 All Rights Reserved
About Us
Press
Privacy Policy
Support
Terms of Use
Affiliate Program
Site Maps
Follow us:
Home
Login
Create Account
Blog
Parent 2 Parent
Videos by Category
ALL PARENTS
PREGNANCY
ADOPTION
BABY
TODDLER
PRESCHOOL
ELEMENTARY
TEEN
SPECIAL NEEDS
Videos by Expert
A-Z
Educators
Law & Money
Medical
Other Specialties
Parents
Safety & Security
Special Needs
Therapists
My Account
About Us