Morphine Interactions: Is It Safe To Take With Other Drugs?
Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888)-459-5511
Menu
Addiction Guides
Addiction Facts
What is Addiction?
Recognizing Addiction
Drug Abuse Statistics
Substance Abuse Triggers
Polydrug Use: Get the Facts
Drug Testing
Addiction Stories
Meth Addiction Stories
Heroin Addiction Stories
Gambling Addiction Stories
Marijuana Addiction Stories
Cocaine Addiction Stories
People at Risk
College Students abd Drug Abuse
Dual Diagnosis
Teenagers and Students
Veterans and Addictions
PTSD and Addiction
Self-Assessment
Substances
Alcohol Addiction
Effects of Alcoholism
Alcoholism Treatment
Alcoholism Recovery
Alcoholism Resources
Street Names of Addictive Substances
Understanding Drugs
Types of Drugs
Illicit Drugs
Marijuana
Crystal Meth
Spice
Cocaine
Crack
GHB
Amphetamine
Speed
Prescription Medication
Ambien
Ketamine
Vicodin
Gabapentin
Accutane
Provigil
Morphine
Zoloft
Prozac
Trazodone
Barbiturates
Fioricet
Stimulants
Nicotine
Adderall
Kratom
Ecstasy
Ritalin
Benzodiazepines
Valium
Restoril
Midazolam
Librium
Klonopin
Halcion
Ativan
Xanax
Hallucinogens
LSD
AL-LAD
Peyote
DMT
Ayhuasca
Shrooms
Opioids
Opiates
Heroin
Opium
Opana
Suboxone
Vicoprofen
Methadone
Fentanyl
Dilaudid
Demerol
Codeine
Tramadol
Oxycodone
Hydrocodone
Norco
Percocet
Sedative-Hypnotics
Lunesta
Sonata
Other Substances
Sleeping Pills
OTC Drugs
Diet Pills
Inhalants
Painkillers
Narcotics
Antidepressants
NPC
Anxiety Medication
Cyclobenzaprine
Lexapro
Baclofen
Vyvanse
Phenibut
Kava
Celexa
Treatment Guides
Treatment Stages
Addiction Treatment: the Overview
1 ► Intervention
2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy
3 ► Lifelong Commitment
Treatment for Substance Abuse: An Overview of Addiction Recovery Programs
Resources
Relapse Prevention Plan
Support Groups: An Overview
When a Loved One Has an Addiction
Drug Addiction Medications
Addiction and Rehab Hotlines
Find AA meetings
Find NA Meetings
Addiction Treatment Facility Locator
Rehab Guides
Facilities
Best Drug Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q.
Drug Rehabs Near You
Outpatient Rehabs Near You
Types
Court Ordered Rehabs
Free and State Funded Rehabs
Rehabs for Veterans
Dual Diagnosis Rehabs
F.A.Q.
Rehab Question Answered
Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own?
How Long Does Rehab Take?
Medicaid and Medicare
Addiction Recovery Costs
Substances
LSD Rehab
Heroin Rehabs
Cocaine Rehab
Crystal Meth Rehab
GHB Rehab
Ecstasy Rehab
About Us
Our Community
Scholarship
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Addiction Treatment Events
Morphine Interactions: The Dangers of Mixing with Other Drugs
Free 24/7 rehab helpline > (888)-459-5511
Morphine is an opiate pain medication that acts on the central nervous system to depress it and decrease sensations of pain. Doctors use the medication to treat both acute and chronic pain. The drug is known to have a high physical dependence liability and a moderate psychological one, which makes it easy to become addicted to, often leading to abuse. This is highly concerning as there are many morphine drug interactions, and addiction often leads to polysubstance abuse (mixing medications, street drugs, and alcohol).
Even for those who are not addicted to the medication, morphine sulfate interactions are concerning as they can occur accidentally if the user is not certain what substances to avoid. As such, anyone taking the medication needs to learn about dangerous interactions and side effects of Morphine.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
Table of contents:
What Causes Morphine and Alcohol Use?
What Makes Mixing Drugs So Dangerous?
The Lists of Morphine and Substances Interactions
What Causes Morphine and Alcohol Use?
Mixing alcohol and morphine is not caused by a single factor. In some cases, alcohol and morphine are mixed because the user is unaware that they can lead to dangerous interactions and wants to enjoy a cocktail. In other cases, the user knows the risk is there but believes that if they drink in moderation, all will be fine. And then there are cases where the user is purposefully mixing the two substances because they enjoy the way alcohol and morphine interactions make them feel.
No matter why the user mixes morphine and alcohol, it has the potential to cause negative short-term and long-term side effects. As such, mixing morphine with other substances should always be avoided unless it is done at the direction of a medical professional. Mixing of two substances can lead to painful Morphine withdrawal.
Short-Term Effects of Mixing Morphine and Alcohol
Short-term side effects are those that come on suddenly when morphine and alcohol are mixed and are either resolved when the substances are worked out of the system or when a major medical event occurs, such as overdose or even death. While overdose and death are a greater risk when taking morphine sulfate, they are always a risk when mixing any type of morphine with alcohol.
Some common short-term side effects of mixing morphine and alcohol include:
Hallucination
Extreme dizziness
Weakness
Nausea
Difficulty speaking
Poor judgment
Confusion
Slow and shallow breathing
Low blood pressure
Overdose
Coma
Death
Long-Term Effects of Mixing Morphine and Alcohol
While the short-term effects of mixing morphine and alcohol are alarming on their own, users should also consider the long-term effects, as these are what they will live with should polysubstance abuse continue. Unlike the majority of the short-term effects listed above, save for death from overdose, long-term effects of morphine drug interactions are not easy to resolve using treatment.
Some common long-term side effects of mixing morphine and alcohol include:
Development of paranoia and panic disorders
Live disease and failure
Kidney disease and failure
Permanent memory problems
Lingering physical weakness
Brain damage
What Makes Mixing Drugs So Dangerous?
Polysubstance—or polydrug—abuse is the term given to cases where users take two or more substances at once, usually to experience a greater Morphine high, though mixing can occur due to a lack of awareness as well. The substances mixed can be prescription drugs, street drugs, alcohol, or any combination of the three. It is important that users are aware of the risks of polydrug abuse as it contributes to the majority of overdose deaths.
The Effects of Mixing Morphine in Particular with Other Drugs
Mixing any two substances can cause harmful interactions, overdose, and death. However, the risk is higher for drug interactions with morphine than most other medications. This can be attributed to several factors. First of all, the exact overdose dosage of morphine is not precise as it varies depending on the formula taken and physical variables in the user, such as weight and health.
Second, many substances function like morphine, meaning they depress the central nervous system; combined, they can reduce its function to the point that death occurs. Third, specific morphine formulas speed up their release when mixed with other substances, especially alcohol, turning what would have been a safe dose toxic, leading to death. Morphine sulfate drug interactions tend to be the most dangerous.
How to Get Help for Polydrug Abuse?
The first step in getting help for polydrug abuse is realizing that the user cannot manage the detox and rehabilitation process on their own. Detoxing from a single substance can be dangerous; when detoxing from multiple substances, the process gets trickier and riskier. Not to mention that drug abuse is nearly impossible to stop without help.
The next step is reaching out for the assistance required. There are numerous rehabilitation centers throughout the country staffed by more than 3,500 certified addiction specialists, making it easy to find one nearby. With morphine, rehabilitation is generally inpatient for at least a month, if not more, before allowing the user to graduate to outpatient therapy.
The Lists of Morphine and Substances Interactions
Not every morphine overdose occurs because of the drug being abused. In some cases, overdose occurs purely by accident because the user mixes morphine with a contraindicated substances, not knowing that it is contraindicated. For example, can you take ibuprofen with morphine? You can, but it will reduce the analgesic effect of morphine, making it more likely the user will take more of the drug.
As it ends up, there are many morphine interactions with other drugs, which range from moderate to severe.
Moderate Interactions
Extended and immediate release benzodiazepines
Extended and immediate release tranquilizers
Extended and immediate release muscle relaxants
Extended and immediate release antipsychotics
Gabapentin
Serious Interactions
Nalbuphine
Butorphanol
Buprenorphine
Any agents that cause respiratory depression or lower blood pressure
Severe Interactions
Alcohol
All other opioids
Street drugs
Mixing Morphine with Other Substances Is Dangerous
Because morphine drug interactions are so common, it is vital that users do not mix any substances, including alcohol, with the drug unless they are directed to do so by their doctor. This means they need to be honest with all healthcare providers about the medications they are taking, any other substances they regularly use, and if they are misusing any medications. While morphine sulfate interactions are the most dangerous, especially with alcohol, any form of morphine can lead to overdose and death if mixed. While education is important, if dependence plays a role in the way the user is taking the medication, rehabilitation will be needed to live a quality life. Start seeking the best Morphine addiction treatment option.
Hope Without Commitment
Find the best treatment options.
Call our free and confidential helpline
Treatment Is Fully Covered by Insurance In Most Cases
(888)-459-5511
If you or a loved one are struggling with morphine or polysubstance abuse, there is a path to health and freedom. With the assistance of recovery specialists, you can end your addiction and live a better life. Contact our addiction specialists at (888)-459-5511.
Morphine Interactions: The Dangers of Mixing with Other Drugs
Rate this article
Addiction Resource » Addictive Substances: The Anatomy of Drug Addiction » Morphine Addiction and Treatment » Morphine Interactions: The Dangers of Mixing with Other Drugs
Comments 1
Nicole
January 12, 2019 at 5:42 pm Reply
Can you take methadone with morphine sulfate? I am also on gabepentin and adderrall??
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline
(888)-459-5511
Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor.
Feel hope
without commitment.
Morphine Addiction Resources
Morphine Addiction: Overview
Morphine Street Names
How Long Does Morphine Stay In Your System
Morphine High
Morphine Withdrawal
Morphine Substance Interaction
Morphine Side Effects
Morphine Addiction Signs
Morphine Overdose
Morphine Street Prices
Morphine Dosage
Morphine Addiction Treatment
Drug Rehab Resources
Best Rehabs
Local Rehabs Locator
Free Rehabs
Court-Ordered Rehabs
Inpatient Rehabs
Outpatient Rehabs
Jewish Rehabs
Veterans Rehabs
Holistic Rehabs
LGBT Rehab Centers
Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers
Alcohol Hotlines
Rehab Hotlines
Luxury Rehabilitation
Private Rehabs
Christian Rehabs
Women-Only Rehabs
Men-Only Rehabs
Rehabs for Couples
Family Rehabs
Teen Rehabs
State-Funded Rehabs
No-Insurance Rehabs
Executive Rehabs
Resort Rehabs
Drug Rehab Information
Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs.
(888)-459-5511
The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here
© 2014 - 2019 Addiction Resource
Terms And Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
➤