Morphine Abuse and Symptoms Explained
1 (850) 424-3252
100% CONFIDENTIAL LINE – CALL NOW
Facility Photos
Our Program
About Us
Blog
Contact Us
Select Page
What is Morphine?
Morphine is a psychoactive drug and one of the most powerful opiate painkillers known to man. In so many words, this is the prototype for all opioids. Semi-synthetic opioids that are available on the market today include OxyContin, Percocet, and Percodan, all of which are powerfully addictive substances.
Morphine Addiction Dangers
Tolerances to morphine typically build up quickly and addictions are inevitable unless its usage is stopped. As the tolerance to the drug builds up, the individual takes higher dosages to achieve the desired high.
Dependencies are usually physical and psychological in nature and the drug functions by activating the brain’s “reward” system. In turn, this results in increasingly greater cravings the more the drug is used.
Additionally, morphine renders the individual less conscious, therefore hindering their ability to think properly and be aware of their surroundings. These impairments are potentially dangerous, especially when the individual attempts to operate their vehicle while under the influence.
Dependence on Morphine
Widely considered the be one of the most powerful pain reliever in professional medical use today, morphine is highly addictive on many levels. There are about ten prescription drugs that are considered to be the most addictive of the bunch. The primary analgesic agent in opium, it dulls pain by acting directly on the central nervous system in much the same way that heroin does.
Physical side effects of morphine addiction include:
Weakness
Fatigue
Respiratory Depression
Itching
Hives
The body’s dependence on morphine will typically cause it to go through acute withdrawal when the drug is no longer being administered.
Symptoms of this withdrawal include:
Sweating
Chills
Headaches
Tremors
Elevated Heart Rate
High Blood Pressure
Bone and Muscle Pain
Symptoms
The expertise of the staff members here at the Blu By the Sea center includes a thorough knowledge of morphine and its highly addictive nature. When a dependency on the drug is present, there are numerous signs and symptoms that present themselves which include:
Blue-colored fingernails and lips
Clammy, cold skin
Difficulty breathing
Dilated or “pinpoint” pupils
Drowsiness or sleepiness
Fluid build-up in the lungs
Nausea and vomiting
In the case of overdose, coma and death oftentimes result, which is why so many health organizations and medical professionals view the drug as a serious public health threat. Morphine, along with other opioids are considered one of the primary drug threats in the US according to the DEA. Consequently, there are Morphine drug rehab programs available at numerous addiction treatment and recovery centers throughout the country today.
Rehab
The morphine drug rehab program here at Blu By the Sea is a very innovative and unique combination of the following:
Complete body purification
One-to-one client to staff member ratio
Personalized focus on lasting recovery
Whenever an individual tries to overcome morphine dependency on their own, this is nothing short of a frightening experience. Any addiction, whether it is to alcohol or drugs holds us powerful to control our lives and our compulsion to keep from using the substance. It makes us feel like we are out of control and powerless to do anything about it.
With the help of Blu By the Sea and our morphine drug rehab program, you can recover fully, return home to your community, and continue living your new substance-free lifestyle. Please contact us today at 1 (850) 424-3252 for more information and to have your questions answered as well.
To learn more about our addiction treatment program at Blu By The Sea click here
Blu By the Sea Is Located at:
3399 Scenic Hwy 98 East Destin, FL 32541
Can’t Talk Right Now? Fill Out This Form & We’ll Be in Touch Soon:
First Name*
Last Name*
Email*
Phone*
Message
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Facebook
© 2018 Blu By the Sea | 850-608-0864 | 3399 Scenic Hwy 98 East Destin, Fl 32541 | Sitemap | Privacy Policy