Here’s Why You Should Drink A Combo Of Baking Soda And Lemon Juice Every Day - Health Awareness Community
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact
Health Awareness Community
Home
Health Tips
Healthy Food
Natural Remedies
Healthy Recipes
Diet and Fitness
Beauty Tips
Here’s Why You Should Drink A Combo Of Baking Soda And Lemon Juice Every Day
health admin March 12, 2017 Here’s Why You Should Drink A Combo Of Baking Soda And Lemon Juice Every Day2017-03-12T21:24:42+00:00 Natural Remedies 1 Comment
Some people say that the combination of baking soda and lemon kills cancer cells more effectively than chemotherapy, and that it’s 10,000 times stronger, but healthier. Even though it cannot magically help you cure cancer, it can help you fight the disease.
Enter your email address:
Lemon is a proven anti-carcinogen agent, which has strong effects against cysts and tumors. This tropical fruit, and especially its bark, which is full of terpenes, such as d-limonene, helps fight cancer. Studies show that d-limonene and other similar organic compounds have significant influence in the fight against a wide spectrum of cancers. In addition, the high content of vitamin C helps detoxify the body and it raises the immune system of the entire organism.
On the other hand, baking soda is also considered a strong anti-carcinogenic agent. This ingredient helps the human body convert the pH value from acidic to alkaline, and therefore, it helps reduce the tumors. In addition, baking soda has a really good impact on reducing the metastatic cells, giving hope in the fight against this vicious disease.
Read the article down below for more benefits of baking soda and lemon, when used in combination.
Here’s Why You Should Start Drinking Baking Soda And Lemon Water Regularly
In nature, lemon has acidic pH value, while baking soda is alkaline. When combined, they will help your body restore the alkaline/acid balance, improve your immunity, and will help you overcome a number of health problems and diseases.
Each morning, before breakfast, mix 1 teaspoon of baking soda in a glass of filtered water, and add the juice of half lemon. Also, add a little bit of zest in the drink, mix and drink. You’ll get the following health benefits.
Fight Cancer
Due to the rich d-limonene content, this drink is a powerful ally in the fight against cancer. Also, it helps raise the alkaline pH value of the cells, weakening the cancer.
Boost Alkalinity
A glass of baking soda and lemon water has alkaline effects on the human body. This drink helps fight against acidosis, which occurs due to an excessive acid production in the body, or due to an inability of the kidneys to remove the acid. Also, it’s a great remedy for the kidneys, as it helps them function properly and eliminates toxins.
Lower High Cholesterol
This baking soda and lemon water remedy helps burn fat, and therefore, it lowers the cholesterol levels in the blood. Just make sure not to throw away the lemon pulp.
Improve Digestion
Among the many health benefits, this drink improves the digestion and helps relieve flatulence. In addition, it’s great in suppressing acid reflux, which happens when the gastric acid goes back from the stomach to the esophagus. This is a really fast and effective solution!
Clean The Liver
This drink is great starter for the day. Since it contains a fair dose of vitamin C, antioxidants and potassium, it helps cleanse the liver and it meets the dietary daily requirements.
Precaution: This drink is not recommendable for people who suffer from gastritis, high blood pressure and heart problems.
Reference:
THIS Is Why You Should Drink Baking Soda & Lemon Water Every Day!
alkalinity, baking soda, cancer, cholesterol, digestion, lemon, liver
Related Posts
Face-Cleansing And Inflammation Treatment With Coconut Oil And Baking Soda
Here’s What Happens The Moment You Quit Smoking
Castor Oil Can Help You Speed Up Healing And Improve Immunity
1 Comment Already
Jean - March 14th, 2017 at 1:51 am none Comment author #2754 on Here’s Why You Should Drink A Combo Of Baking Soda And Lemon Juice Every Day by Health Awareness Community
I will be taking lemon with bicarbonate of Soda. ,,, ,,, Love it.,,
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
« The Test That May Predict How Long You Will Live
When Consumed In The Right Quantities, Pineapple Relieves Pain, Lowers Blood Pressure, Improves Digestion And Promotes Weight Loss »
Subscribe For Free
Enter your email address:
Search for:
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
WordPress Contact form
Recent Posts
Probiotics Can Improve The Gut-Brain Connection, And Help You Treat Anxiety And Depression
5 Reasons Why You Should Drink Hibiscus Tea During Wintertime
How To Treat Sinus Infection With Apple Cider Vinegar Rinse
Replace Painkillers, Cough Syrup And Antacids With The Homemade Ginger Oil
Misophonia: Are You Annoyed By Chewing Sounds? You May Be A Creative Genius!
Tags
acne anti-inflammatory antioxidant apple cider vinegar back pain baking soda banana blood pressure blood sugar bones cancer castor oil cholesterol cleaning coconut oil coffee colds depression detoxification diabetes digestion eggs essential oils exercise feet garlic ginger hair headache heart attack heart disease honey hormones joint pain lemon lemon juice salt skin sleep stress stroke teeth turmeric water weight loss
Copyright ©2019. Health Awareness Community
error: Content is protected !!