The Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps - Holistic Health Herbalist
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Holistic Health Herbalist
Home
Beauty
Health
Herbalism
Essential Oil Recipes
eBook
Blog Archives
The Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps
April 24, 2015 by Tash 32 Comments
I’ve been known to buy wacky things in the name of health (like the diva cup and Ayurvedic Oil Pulling Rinse ) so when I saw a giant Himalayan salt lamp at my local home goods store, I HAD to buy it.
I didn’t buy it just because it’s beautiful; I bought it because of its purported health benefits like an increased sense of calm and daily stress relief.
The Benefits of Himalayan Salt Lamps
What is a Himalayan Salt Lamp?
A Himalayan salt lamp is made from a large hunk of Himlayan salt that has been hollowed out. A bulb is inserted through the hole at the bottom and then a wooden base is attached.
Most Himalayan salt lamps will have a simple on and off switch, but others will have “dimmers”. I suggest NOT getting the ones with dimmers due to their EMF output (I’ll touch more on EMFs later in the article).
These salt lamps come in a number of unique shapes and sizes such as:
• Baskets of rough chunks of salt
• Cross
• Cylinder
• Dog and other animal shapes
• Globes
• Ground smooth
• Obelisk
• Oval
• Pine tree
• Pyramid
• Square
• Teardrop
• And many more!
I have always preferred the rough chunks of salt for my lamps as they look like art pieces from nature.
Each lamp emits a pleasant orange glow that makes any space in your home ambient and peaceful.
Negative Ions and Himalayan Salt Lamps
Have you ever had the urge to inhale deeply after a thunderstorm, while strolling the beach, or when hiking near a waterfall? The reason may be because the air is charged with negative ions and your body wants more of them.
What is a negative ion you ask? In essence, a negative ion is a molecule of oxygen that has gained an electron. Carbon dioxide is a positively charged ion, meaning it has lost an electron. Both positive and negative ions exist in the air we breathe. To make is easy to understand, negative always attracts positive. The negative ions attract and bind to the positive electrons making them inert.
When we breathe in negative ions in the air, they instill a sense of well-being and have reportedly decreased health concerns like:
• ADHD
• Allergies
• Asthma
• Bodily stress
• Fretful sleep
• Lack of concentration
• Low energy
• Low immunity
• Moodiness
• Nervousness
• Seasonal affective disorder
Just like pure beeswax candles, Himalayan salt lamps have the ability to release negative ions into the air. The salt attracts moisture from the air and evaporates it quickly from the heat of the lamp. This simple process is what creates the negative ions.
Airborne debris like dirt, dust, pollutants, pollen, and other allergens all carry a positive charge. This allows them to float around in the air where they are easily breathed in. The negative ions released by the Himalayan salt lamps bind to the positively charged debris and make them drop harmlessly to the floor.
Here is more on the topic:
“The Himalayan Natural Crystal Salt Lamp also works as an air purifier. When lit, the lamp emits negative ions that fight against positively charged particles that cause you to feel stuffy and sluggish. The lit salt crystal clears the air naturally of allergens like smoke, pet dander, pollens, and other air pollutants. It dilutes odors so that you can breathe easier. People with asthma often find it helpful in reducing their symptoms. You can keep the lamp lit for as long as you like to maintain this purifying effect.”
One great thing about Himalayan slat lamps is their affordability compared to machines you can buy for the same effect. Personally, I love the soft ambient glow of these lamps and now have 3 of them in my apartment. I can easily sleep while one of them in on in my bedroom and they are the perfect night light to use in the kitchen and bathroom.
Another great benefit to having a beautiful salt lamp in your house is its ability to detoxify EMFs. In case you aren’t aware, EMFs are the electromagnetic frequencies emitted from electronics and are considered dangerous to our health. Growing research suggests that high amounts of EMS can contribute to sickness and disease. Now more than ever our bodies receive these artificial electromagnetic wavelengths in staggering amounts, up to 20x more than we’re used to. Using Himalayan salt lamps in your home can help neutralize the elctro-smog microwaves, electric ovens, computers, and cell phones produce.
To help negate EMFs, you can buy a USB salt lamp to keep at your computer so that you can take a beautiful salt lamp wherever you go.
How do Himalayan Salt Lamps Work?
You may be surprised to know that the lamps themselves do not produce negative ions. While the salt is hygroscopic, meaning they attract moisture, the lamp will not produce negative ions until it is heated. It is the evaporation of the moisture from the salt that lends salt lamps their health benefits.
To use a Himalayan salt lamp most effectively, keep it lit as often as possible. I try to keep mine on 24/7 and I can really tell a difference. Having more than one salt lamp in each room or in the rooms you frequent most will give the best results.
Also, if you are treating seasonal allergies it is best to keep the lamp on all day and to close your bedroom door and windows to allow the negative ions to build up and circulate throughout the room.
How Long do Himalayan Salt Lamps Last?
Himalayan salt lamps will last indefinitely. It is the lightbulb inside that will need to be changed out on occasion. You can typically find these bulbs at your local home improvement store or online here.
Do you have any salt lamps in your home?
You may also like to check out my article on Himalayan salt inhalers.
To learn more about Himalayan salt and Himalayan salt lamps, check out this article by Dr. Mercola.
You may also enjoy reading:
The Amazing Health Benefits of Using an Air Purifier
The Amazing Health Benefits of Himalayan Salt Inhalers
How to Naturally Treat Seasonal Allergies
SOS Allergy Nasal Inhaler
Seasonal Allergy Blend – 3 Different Ways!
Himalayan Salt Lamp Benefits
This post contains affiliate links. Read my full disclosure and disclaimer.
Filed Under: Cold and Flu, Detox, Health, Staying Healthy Tips Tagged With: himalayan salt, ions, salt lamps
Reader Interactions
Comments
Sal says
October 19, 2018 at 1:36 pm
Hi,
I discovered hundreds of ants living in my salt lamp this morning! I’ve read that ants prefer salt over sweet but we live near the ocean so I am confused as to why they would make a home in my salt lamp? How do I prevent them from making a home there?
Also, on humid days when there is alot of salt in the air from the ocean, the salt lamp leaks. Is this normal?
Reply
Tash says
October 20, 2018 at 12:03 pm
Hi Sal!
If you live in humid environments, the salt lamps tend to “weep”. I had one that was too close to my bathroom and I ended up having to move it to a dryer location in my house to dry out the lamp and stop the leaking. I wonder if the ants are attracted to the moisture of the lamp?
Reply
Susan says
December 27, 2018 at 11:27 am
Ants will avoid cayanne pepper. I used to mix with sugar and put a thick line of it at the entry point into the house. Diatomacious earth kills them. get food grade if you have pets.
Reply
Tara says
March 13, 2017 at 9:32 pm
Hi, when I touch my lamp it doesn’t feel warm. Have you heard of the using led lights or something that wouldn’t heat up.
Reply
Tash says
March 14, 2017 at 12:37 pm
Hi Tara!
I know that it’s important for the lamp to heat up because that’s what helps release healing salt particles into the air. I wonder if it’s possible to switch out the bulb you’re using?
Reply
Linda says
March 11, 2017 at 1:34 pm
I have one off these lamps had to put it away because it leaks alot of liquid. Is this normal? It leaves every space wet, where I leave it. Please let me know what I should do..
Reply
Tash says
March 13, 2017 at 6:04 pm
Hi Linda!
I had a lamp that did that as well and realized it was because the room it was in was too humid. If there is a lot of moisture in the air the lamps tend to weep. Once they start, it can be difficult to get them back to normal, but generally wrapping them in a dry towel or putting them out in the sun seemed to do the trick!
Reply
Kathy says
January 24, 2017 at 8:21 pm
We have salt lamps all through the house. And we keep the one in our bedroom directly under the bed on the floor. (We have wooden floors) It adds a soft glow as a night light to see at night and keeps the ions negatively charge to help us sleep.
Reply
CHernandex says
November 2, 2016 at 7:38 pm
I have one but it looks like a candle holder. Will it show positive results too with the candle in it?
Reply
Tash says
November 4, 2016 at 12:36 pm
Hi CHernandex!
Yes! The heat from the candle will cause the salt particles to flow like they should. You will still get some benefit from this 🙂 I just love how salt lamps look and of course you can leave them on without worrying about fire.
Reply
Nancy says
September 17, 2016 at 12:26 pm
I have a prayer plant in my house and have had it for 8 years. Since I got my salt lamp it seems like it is dieing, have you heard of that happening.
Reply
Tash says
September 19, 2016 at 1:34 pm
Hi Nancy!
it could be that the plant is sensitive to the salt in the air perhaps? As salt lamps heat up, they definitely release salt particles into the air. That could be why it’s looking a little worse for wear!
Reply
Shannon says
September 16, 2016 at 6:15 pm
Does it have to be used in a smaller space ? Or could I use one on my desk in a large office setting of cubicles?
Reply
Tash says
September 19, 2016 at 1:35 pm
Hi Shannon!
I think the lamp would work a bit better in a smaller space, but in a cubicle should still be fine 🙂 At any rate, having it on all day will still offer a lot of benefit! 🙂
Reply
creation crystal says
April 7, 2016 at 4:27 am
Using Himalayan salt lamps in your home can help neutralize the elctro-smog microwaves
Reply
Craig says
March 28, 2016 at 8:36 pm
I glanced at a lamp at my local Sam’s club.
What do you think of them?
Reply
Tash says
March 29, 2016 at 1:49 pm
Hi Craig!
Any type of himalayan salt lamp will be beneficial for your health 🙂 I hope you give them a try!
Reply
June says
February 16, 2016 at 6:58 am
I’m also a big fan of himalayan rock salt lamps and have them in every room in my house. They have helped me with some minor health problems like sinusitis and cluster headaches i had.Their glow is also very relaxing and soothing for body and mind.
Respect. June
Reply
Brenda says
February 9, 2016 at 7:56 pm
You say the benefits of the lamp don’t work until heated. Does it have to be heated by a light bulb or can the rocks be placed in a sauna?
Reply
Tash says
February 10, 2016 at 11:36 am
Hi Brenda!
The light bulb inside will warm the lamp and allow the salt particles to disperse. Keeping it near a sunny window will also have the same effect 🙂 I would not put the lamp anywhere near moisture because it will begin to melt and you won’t be able to stop the salt from weeping. So keep the lamp away from bathrooms, saunas, and other areas with a lot of moisture. Hope this helps 🙂
Reply
Sam says
February 6, 2016 at 6:14 am
My dad bought me one for christmas and I didnt know anything about them. The benefits have been great I hate being away from it. Mine also has a small diffuser which I use every night. Thanks for the information it was great to learn why it works.
Reply
Tash says
February 9, 2016 at 1:17 pm
Hi Sam!
I’m really happy that you love your himalayan salt lamp! They’re really amazing aren’t they?
Reply
Ac says
September 29, 2015 at 3:38 pm
Great article! I’ve been meaning to purchase one for bedroom and living room as there are allergy sufferer in our home, do you know if one should consider buying organic. I’ve been doing a ton of research and some claim to be 100% organic. Thoughts?
Reply
Tash says
September 29, 2015 at 5:48 pm
Interesting! I haven’t heard of organic himalayan salt lamps before. What I do recommend is getting one from a good source because some sellers try to sell inferior products. Amazon is a good place to explore 🙂 Organic though? I would be wary!
Reply
kimberlee says
May 11, 2015 at 3:36 pm
Do you have any tips on knowing when we’re buying a good quality one or if it’s the real thing. I almost wouldn’t trust one from a store like HomeGoods/TJMaxx/Marshalls/Ross. But I’m ready to run out to HomeGoods right now to get one!
Reply
Tash says
May 12, 2015 at 11:24 am
Hi Kimberlee!
I have been doing a lot of looking around but I haven’t been able to find a reliable way to tell if the salt is good quality. Most home good type stores have lamps without any type of attached reading material let alone what brand made the lamp. As for me, I went with one from my local home goods store and I’m really happy with it. Of course, you can also get these amazing lamps online from sources that may be more reputable. I’ve heard that amazon is a great place to look! I know a lot of other bloggers have this one: http://amzn.to/1QG6RrC
Hope this helps! 🙂
Reply
Bethani says
May 1, 2015 at 1:07 pm
Thanks for the informative article! I just purchased 2 with the dimmer a week ago for the kids room! Should I return them? Ugh, so bummed. Trying to do something good and there always seems to be something wrong…
Reply
Tash says
May 1, 2015 at 3:02 pm
Hi Bethani!
The EMFs that come out of the dimmers isn’t very substantial but I included the info because there are some people who are very sensitive to EMFs. If you keep the lamps on the bedside tables, just make sure the dimmer control is away from their bodies as they sleep. The negative ions from the lamps should nullify any EMFs. I don’t think you need to return them 🙂
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Primary Sidebar
Hello friend!
I'm Tash, and together we'll learn how to support our physical, mental, and emotional well-being with DIY herbal remedies, essential oils, and all natural skin care. Read More…
Search this website
Before Footer
Search this website
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease.
By accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the Full Disclaimer, Privacy Policy, and Affiliate Disclosure below.
Full Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2019 · Wellness Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in