8 Amazing Benefits Of Grapefruit Oil – The Whole And Soul Cleanser
Ingredients and Uses
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
Makeup
Makeup
Bridal Makeup
Celebrity Makeup
Eye Make up
Lip Make up
Makeup Ideas
Mehandi Designs
Nail Art
hair care
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Dandruff
Dry Hair Care
Hair Care Ideas
Hair Care Solutions
Hair Colour
Hair Fall
Hair Growth
Hair Treatment
Oily Hair Care
skin care
Skin Care
Acne
Anti Ageing
Beauty Secrets
Dry Skin
Face Care Tips
Face Packs and Masks
Glowing skin
Homemade Tips
Oily Skin
Perfumes
Skin Care Ideas
Skin Care Problems
Sunscreen
hairstyle
Hairstyle
Bob Hairstyles
Braid hairstyles
Bridal Hairstyles
Bun Hairstyles
Celebrity Hairstyles
Curly Hairstyles
Different Hairstyles
Hairstyle Trends
Long Hairstyles
Medium Hairstyles
Short Hairstyles
Teen Hairstyles
Updo Hairstyles
Wavy Hairstyles
health & wellness
Health & Wellness
Diet Tips
Healthy Food
Home Remedies
Ingredients and Uses
Nutrition
Fitness
Weight Loss
Weight Gain
Yoga
Medicine
news
News
Fashion
Brand News
Celebrity News
Community news
Inspiration
Top 10’s
Trends
StyleCraze Experts
reviews
Reviews
हिंदी
हिंदी
Swathi Handoo
Home » Health and Wellness » Ingredients and Uses
8 Amazing Benefits Of Grapefruit Oil – The Whole And Soul Cleanser
Medically reviewed by Dr. Scott Johnson
November 28, 2018 by Swathi Handoo IncnutIncnut Incnut
8 Amazing Benefits Of Grapefruit Oil – The Whole And Soul Cleanser Swathi Handoo November 28, 2018
How would you feel if you stepped into your house after a tiresome day, and a waft of fresh, tangy, and calming essence hits you? If I were you, I’d take in all of the essence and just get lost in a trance. This is precisely what grapefruit oil does to you. It is an essential oil that has a rejuvenating, relaxing aroma along with a variety of purposes. Wouldn’t you want to know more? Let’s get started then.
Table Of Contents
More About Grapefruit Oil
Benefits Of Using Grapefruit Oil
Composition Of Grapefruit Oil
DIY: How To Prepare Grapefruit Oil
Cautions When Using Grapefruit Oil
More About Grapefruit Oil
Grapefruit (Citrus x paradisi) is a hybrid that was initially grown in Barbados. It is a cross between sweet orange (Citrus sinensis) and pomelo/shaddock (Citrus maxima). It got its name from the way a few of these hung in clusters on the trees – like a bunch of grapes.
What’s so unique about it that I want you to buy the essential oil right away? Read on to find out!
Back To TOC
Benefits Of Using Grapefruit Oil
1. Heals Your Body, Mind, And Soul
Shutterstock
Grapefruit oil has a fresh, citrusy smell, which, when inhaled, gives a burst of freshness. The fragrance soothes your mind and body. Hence, it is used in aromatherapy.
Along with other essential oils, it is used to ease mental stress, depression, and post-partum sickness in patients undergoing intense trauma, labor, and harsh treatments (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, etc.).
Try adding grapefruit oil to your vaporizer and see how it brings in ‘soul’ace. And yes, your pets too are going to be extremely happy inhaling this essence.
2. Aids Weight Loss
According to a study performed on mice in 2014, grapefruit oil, when inhaled, increases nerve activity, causing breakdown of lipids (lipolysis) (1). It controls your blood pressure and decreases food intake.
In one way, this decrease in appetite is linked to weight loss as you don’t feel the need to binge on food at odd hours. Doesn’t that feel nice?
3. Has Antimicrobial Properties
Grapefruit extracts exhibit antibacterial properties, especially against the bacteria that are multidrug-resistant (MDR) and cannot be killed using usual doses of antibiotics (2). Apply grapefruit oil or inhale the essence if you are prone to or have a bacterial infection.
Studies have shown that this essential oil can cure fungal infections caused due to Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger, and Penicillium chrysogenum (3).
You can also use grapefruit oil for managing viral infections – most commonly, the flu. Try adding the oil to your diffuser when you are down with flu for a calming effect.
You can also add it along with your nasal decongestant to the steam bath.
4. Manages Anxiety And Depression
iStock
Due to its chemical composition, grapefruit oil, in combination with other essential oils, can soothe strained nerves.
Massaging with grapefruit oil can help fight peri-operative anxiety among patients due for surgeries – reducing the dependence on anesthesia.
Depression can be managed efficiently using aromatherapy. Grapefruit oil triggers your brain to produce hormones that uplift your mood and spirit.
5. Helps Burn Flab And Cellulite
Nothing can sound sweeter than this, isn’t it? A regular whole body massage for 30 minutes to 1 hour with grapefruit oil, in combination with other essential oils, can result in abdominal flab reduction. This finding was according to a study done on women who crossed 50 years of age (4).
It might work on women younger than 50 years too. Whole body massages can help in toning your entire figure, not just the cellulite.
So, grab a bottle of this fat burner if you need that hourglass figure now!
6. Stimulates The Immune System
Grapefruit oil is abundant in antioxidants, which make it one of the best immune system boosters. It cleanses the body of toxins and free radicals and ensures the lymphatic system runs smoothly. It can prevent premature aging, memory loss, and loss of eyesight.
7. Improves Blood Circulation – Cures Cramps And Hangovers
Can’t get off your bed because it’s that day of the month? Can’t move your head because it feels like a rock?
If you are looking for a solution, you are on the right page.
The tangy-smelling grapefruit oil is the single solution for all your cramps, hangovers, stiff muscles, catch in the neck, swollen feet, morning sickness, and even arthritis.
It improves blood circulation, prevents fluid retention, and relieves your body of stress caused due to alcohol and inhaled pollutants.
8. Is A Wonderful Hair Tonic
Shutterstock
Massaging your scalp with grapefruit oil, along with your regular hair oil, improves blood circulation and strengthens the roots. Due to its antimicrobial activity, grapefruit oil keeps infections at bay and gives you healthy scalp and hair. Say goodbye to hair fall!
But, hold on! What gives grapefruit oil its superpowers?
Back To TOC
Composition Of Grapefruit Oil
Several studies identified terpenes, sesquiterpenes, aldehydes, and alcohols in grapefruit oil by chromatographic methods. Limonene is the most abundant component in this oil, (73.9%-96.2%), along with traces of ß-myrcene (1.4%), linalool, geraniol, and nerol (5).
These complex terpenes and alcohols exhibit antioxidative and anti-inflammatory activities.
What if I told you that making grapefruit oil was as easy as making its juice? Yes, it’s that simple. Let me share a short and easy recipe with you.
Back To TOC
DIY: How To Prepare Grapefruit Oil
What You’ll Need
Grapefruits (preferably ones with not very thick peel/skin/rind)
Kitchen grater
Base/carrier oil (olive oil, almond oil, or coconut oil)
Small pot or thick saucepan or mason jar
Cheesecloth
Amber-colored containers or aluminum foil
Let’s Make It!
1. Wash the grapefruits thoroughly. Get rid of the wax or any debris on the skin.
2. Peel the grapefruit. Using a kitchen grater, remove the pith (white layer) stuck to the skin. Grate it carefully to not lose too much of the skin along with the pith.
3. Spread the skins out on a plate and leave it in a warm place to dry. Ensure the area and the plate are dry to avoid unnecessary microbial growth and moisture in your oil.
4. You can either heat the oil with the skins (Method I). Or you can just let the skins soak in the oil (Method II).
5. Method I: (Quick)
In a thick saucepan, place the skins and add the base oil until they sink into it.
Switch on the heat/stove, place this vessel on it and cover with a lid.
Leave the oil to slow boil over low heat/flame. Keep mixing intermittently.
It might take several hours for the essence to infuse well into the oil.
Method II: (Slow)
Place the skins in a mason jar or any small glass bottle.
Add the base oil until the skins sink in it.
Seal the jar and expose it to direct sunlight for about two weeks.
6. Transfer the contents to a vessel covered with 4 to 5 layers of cheesecloth.
7. Squeeze as much oil as you can into the vessel.
8. Store the oil in cool, dry place in amber or dark-colored bottles, away from sunlight.
Alright. You read about grapefruit oil, thought about using it, and made yourself a batch of it too. Good progress!
But you would find it too-good-to-be-true and get all skeptical about using this oil. Am I right?
Before the questions pop up in your head, scroll down to read about the side effects of using the oil.
Back To TOC
Cautions When Using Grapefruit Oil
1. Might Increase Photosensitivity
Certain essential oils or formulations with grapefruit oil can increase your skin’s photosensitivity. Long hours of exposure to the sun after applying this oil topically might cause redness, dark spots, pigmentation, or blisters.
You should avoid UV rays (from the sun or tanning beds) for 12 hours after using grapefruit oil. It is better if you don’t use it if you are going to be out in the sun for a long time.
2. Pregnant Women And Young Children
Pregnant and nursing women should consult their doctor before using this oil. For infants and children (or anybody, for that matter), use only 100% pure essential oil. The maximum concentration of this oil you can use is 4%.
Back To TOC
What’s My Verdict?
If you keep these drawbacks in mind and use good quality grapefruit oil in the right quantity, it is going to be your best friend indeed.
Use homemade grapefruit oil if you are worried about authenticity and adulteration, or buy it here.
If you like this article and wish to read more of this kind, please like and share. Your feedback is valuable, so do write to us.
Expert’s Answers for Readers Questions
What is the difference between pink and white grapefruit oils?
There is not much difference between pink and white grapefruit oils. The pink one smells sweeter than the white and is used more commonly.
Does grapefruit oil interfere with medication?
No interaction between grapefruit oil and medication has been reported. There are studies about grapefruit juice actively interacting with certain drugs, but this activity is relatively weak in the oil.
Unless you ingest reasonable amounts of the oil, you can safely use it while on medication. The right quantity to ingest is still unclear, but aromatherapy is considered safe in most cases.
Which essential oil is a substitute for grapefruit oil?
Tangerine oil and lemon oil can be good substitutes for grapefruit oil. They have similar physical properties but might have different therapeutic benefits.
It is better to double check with a physician or the vendor’s safety data sheet before using any essential oil.
References
“Olfactory stimulation with scent of grapefruit oil affects…” Neuroscience Letters, US National Library of Medicine
“The Composition, Antioxidant and Antibacterial Activities…” Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, US National Library of Medicine
“Essential oil of Grape Fruit (Citrus paradisi)…” American journal of Plant Sciences
“Effect of Aromatherapy massage on…” US National Library of Medicine
“Essential oil components of orange peels…” US National Library of Medicine
Recommended Articles:
7 Benefits Of Grapefruit Essential Oil For Hair
17 Amazing Benefits Of Grapefruit For Skin And Health
21 Amazing Benefits Of Citrus Fruits For Skin, Hair, And Health
20 Best Benefits Of Peppermint Oil For Skin, Hair, And Health
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by Swathi Handoo (see all)
10 Food Supplements To Lower Your Blood Pressure Naturally - March 29, 2019
3 Surprising Benefits And Side Effects Of Cedarwood Oil - March 20, 2019
The Power Of Shilajit: What Is It? Why Does Ayurveda Recommend It? - March 19, 2019
3 Principal Benefits You Get From Damiana Leaf – The Safest Aphrodisiac - March 6, 2019
The Benevolent Baobab: 6 Surprising Benefits And Facts - February 26, 2019
Swathi Handoo
Related
RELATED ARTICLES
7 Proven Ways Grapefruit Can Help You Achieve A Healthy And Active Body
7 Benefits Of Grapefruit Essential Oil For Hair
10 Best Essential Oils To Lose Weight
39 Amazing Benefits And Uses Of Cinnamon Essential Oil
DIY Coconut Oil And Sugar Scrub
Top 12 Effective Home Remedies To Treat Keloids
Grapefruit Diet – Everything You Need To Know About It
RELATED ARTICLES
7 Proven Ways Grapefruit Can Help You Achieve A Healthy And Active Body
7 Benefits Of Grapefruit Essential Oil For Hair
10 Best Essential Oils To Lose Weight
39 Amazing Benefits And Uses Of Cinnamon Essential Oil
DIY Coconut Oil And Sugar Scrub
Top 12 Effective Home Remedies To Treat Keloids
Grapefruit Diet – Everything You Need To Know About It
Most Popular
10 Food Supplements To Lower Your Blood Pressure Naturally
Arnica Essential Oil Benefits: Anti-Arthritis, Pain-Relieving, And More
Top 14 Gluten-Free Flours
Thiamine: Top Foods + Benefits + Thiamine Deficiency
About Us
Advertise With Us
Disclaimer
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Terms Of Use
Get Advice, Free Samples & More
Follow us
Our Sister Sites
MomJunction
The BridalBox
Skinkraft
Vedix
Copyright 2019 © Stylecraze
StyleCraze provides content of general nature that is designed for informational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your health, consult a qualified healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site.