Mosquito Bite - Allied Physicians Group - Pediatric Medicine
About Allied
Specialists
Newborn Care
Telehealth
Blog
Allied Foundation
Pay Bills
Patient Portal
Join Our Team
Find Practice
☰
˟
Find A Practice
About Allied
Specialists
Newborn Care
Telehealth
Blog
Allied Foundation
Pay Bills
Patient Portal
Careers
Mosquito Bite
Choose a symptom:
SelectAbdominal Pain Animal or Human Bite Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete’s Foot Back Pain Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Burns Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Cracked or Dry Skin Croup Crying Baby – Before 3 Months Old Crying Child – 3 Months and Older Cuts, Scrapes, or Bruises (Skin Injury) Diaper Rash Diarrhea Drinking Fluids – Decreased Ear – Congestion Ear – Discharge Ear – Injury Ear – Pulling At or Rubbing Ear – Swimmer’s Ear Infection Questions Earache Eye – Allergy Eye – Foreign Body Eye – Injury Eye – Pus or Discharge Eye – Red Without Pus Fever Finger or Toe Injury Frostbite Genital Injury Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever (Nasal Allergies) Head Injury Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Immunization Reactions Impetigo – Infected Sores Influenza – Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice – Head Lymph Nodes – Swollen Medication – Refusal to Take Mosquito Bite Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness – How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy – Oak – Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness – Localized Rash or Redness – Widespread Ringworm Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Body Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up – Reflux Stools – Blood In Stools – Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Tear Duct – Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Tooth Injury Urination Pain Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Vaginal Itching or Irritation Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea
Definition
Bites from a mosquito
Cause itchy, red bumps
Often they look like a hive
West Nile Virus (WNV) questions are also covered
First Aid Advice for Anaphylaxis – Epinephrine
Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening allergic reaction.
If you have epinephrine (such as Epi-pen), give it now.
Do this while calling 911.
Over 66 pounds (30 kg): Give 0.3 mg. Epi-Pen.
33-66 pound (15-30 kg): Give 0.15 mg. Epi-Pen Jr.
Less than 33 pounds (15 kg): Give dose advised by your doctor.
Give the shot into the upper outer thigh in the leg straight down.
Can be given through clothing if needed.
Benadryl: After giving the Epi-pen, give Benadryl by mouth. Do this if your child is able to swallow.
Types of Reactions
In North America, mosquito bites are mainly an annoyance. They cause itchy red skin bumps. Often, the bite looks like hives (either one large one or several small ones).
When a mosquito bites, its secretions are injected into the skin. The red bumps are the body’s reaction to this process.
Suspect mosquito bites if there are bites on other parts of the body. Most bites occur on exposed parts such as face and arms. Bites of the upper face can cause severe swelling around the eye. This can last for several days. With bites, the swelling can be pink as well as large (especially age 1-5 years).
Rarely, the mosquito can carry a serious blood-borne disease. In the US and Canada, this is mainly West Nile Virus (WNV). In Africa and South America, they also carry malaria and yellow fever.
Prevention. Insect repellents can prevent mosquito bites. Use DEET (applied to skin) and permethrin (applied to clothing).
Mosquito Life Cycle
Only female mosquitoes bite. They need a blood meal to produce eggs. The female may bite 20 times before she finds a small blood vessel. She then sips blood for 90 seconds.
Males eat flower nectar and plant juices.
170 species of mosquito are in North America.
At a far distance, they are attracted by smell (breath odors, sweat and perfumes). They can smell up to 120 feet (36 meters). At a close distance, they are attracted by body heat and movement.
Risk Factors for Increased Mosquito Bites
Warmer body temperature
Male more than female
Children more than adults
Breath odors
Sweating
Perfumed soaps and shampoos
When to Call Us for Mosquito Bite
Call 911 Now If: Click to View
Call 911 Now (your child may need an ambulance) If:
Life threatening allergic reaction suspected. (Symptoms include sudden onset of trouble breathing or swallowing.) See FIRST AID. If you have epinephrine, give it now.
Can’t wake up
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Us Now (night or day) If:
Your child looks or acts very sick
Hard to wake up
Acts or talks confused
Can’t walk or can barely walk
Stiff neck (can’t touch chin to the chest)
Spreading red area or streak with fever
You think your child needs to be seen urgently
Call Us Within 24 Hours If: Click to View
Call Us Within 24 Hours (between 9 am and 4 pm) If:
You think your child needs to be seen, but not urgently
Painful spreading redness started more than 24 hours after the bite. (Note: Any redness starting in the first 24 hours is a reaction to the bite)
More than 48 hours since the bite and redness gets larger
Call Us During Weekday Office Hours If:
You have other questions or concerns
Scab that looks infected (drains pus or gets bigger) not better with antibiotic ointment
SEVERE itching not better after 24 hours of steroid cream
Parent Care at Home If: Click to View
Parent Care at Home If:
Normal mosquito bite
West Nile Virus, questions about
Insect repellents (such as DEET), questions about
Care Advice for Mosquito Bites
Treatment for Mosquito Bites
What You Should Know:
In the United States and Canada, mosquito bites rarely carry any disease.
They cause itchy red skin bumps.
Most of the time, the bumps are less than 1/2 inch (12 mm) in size. In young children, they can be larger.
Some even have a small water blister in the center.
A large hive at the bite does not mean your child has an allergy.
The redness does not mean the bite is infected.
Here is some care advice that should help.
Steroid Cream for Itching:
To reduce the itching, use 1% hydrocortisone cream. No prescription is needed. Put it on 3 times a day until the itch is gone. If you don’t have, use a baking soda paste until you can get some.
If neither is available, use ice in a wet washcloth for 20 minutes.
Also, you can put firm, sharp, direct, steady pressure on the bite. Do this for 10 seconds to reduce the itch. A fingernail, pen cap, or other object can be used.
Allergy Medicine for Itching:
If the bite is still itchy, try an allergy medicine such as Benadryl. No prescription is needed.
Sometimes it helps, especially in allergic children. See Dose Table.
Try Not to Scratch:
Cut the fingernails short.
Help your child not to scratch.
Reason: Prevent a skin infection at the bite site.
What to Expect:
Most mosquito bites itch for 3 or 4 days.
Any pinkness or redness lasts 3 or 4 days.
The swelling may last 7 days.
Bites of the upper face can cause severe swelling around the eye. This does not hurt the vision and is harmless.
The swelling is often worse in the morning after lying down all night. It will improve after standing for a few hours.
Call Your Doctor If:
Bite looks infected (redness gets larger after 48 hours)
Bite becomes painful
Your child becomes worse
West Nile Virus Questions
West Nile Virus (WNV) – What You Should Know:
WNV is a disease carried by mosquitoes. It can be spread to humans through a mosquito bite.
About 1% of mosquitoes carry WNV.
Of people who get WNV, less than 1% get the serious kind.
Here are some facts that should help.
Symptoms of WNV:
No symptoms: 80% of WNV infections.
Mild symptoms: 20% of infections. Symptoms include fever, headache, and body aches. Some have a skin rash. These symptoms last 3-6 days. They go away without any treatment. This is called WNV fever.
Serious symptoms: less than 1% (1 out of 150) of WNV infections. Symptoms are high fever, stiff neck, confusion, coma, seizures, and muscle weakness. The muscle weakness is often just on one side. The cause is infection of the brain (encephalitis) or spinal cord (viral meningitis).
Death: 10% of those who need to be in the hospital.
Child cases are most often mild. Most serious cases occur in people over age 60.
Diagnosis of WNV:
Mild symptom cases do not need to see a doctor. They do not need any special tests.
Severe symptom cases (with encephalitis or viral meningitis) need to see a doctor right away. Special tests on the blood and spinal fluid will be done to confirm WNV.
Pregnant or nursing women need to see a doctor if they have WNV symptoms.
Treatment of WNV:
No special treatment is needed after a mosquito bite.
There is no special treatment or anti-viral drug for WNV symptoms.
People with serious symptoms often need to be in the hospital. They will be given IV fluids and airway support.
There is not yet a vaccine to prevent WNV in humans.
WNV – Spread by Mosquitoes:
WNV is spread by the bite of a mosquito. The mosquito gets the virus from biting infected birds.
Even in an area where WNV occurs, less than 1% of mosquitoes carry the virus.
Spread is mosquito-to-human.
Person-to-person spread does not occur. Kissing, touching, or sharing a glass with a person who has WNV is safe.
Mothers with mosquito bites can breastfeed (CDC 2003), unless they get symptoms of WNV.
It takes 3-14 days after the mosquito bite to get WNV.
In United States and Canada, the peak summers for WNV were 2002, 2003 and 2012.
Insect Repellent Questions
Prevention:
Wear long pants, a long-sleeved shirt and a hat.
Avoid being outside when the bugs are most active. Mosquitoes are most active at dawn and dusk. Limit your child’s outdoor play during these times.
Get rid of any standing water. (Reason: It’s where they lay their eggs.)
Keep bugs out of your home by fixing any broken screens.
Insect repellents containing DEET are very good at preventing mosquito bites. Read the label carefully.
DEET Products – Use on the Skin:
DEET is a good mosquito repellent. It also repels ticks and other bugs.
The AAP approves DEET use over 2 months old. Use 30% DEET or less. Use 30% DEET if you need 6 hours of protection. Use 10% DEET if you only need protection for 2 hours.
Don’t put DEET on the hands if your child sucks their thumb or fingers. (Reason: Prevent swallowing DEET)
Warn older children who apply their own DEET to use less. A total of 3 or 4 drops can protect the whole body.
Put on exposed areas of skin. Do not use near eyes or mouth. Don’t use on skin that is covered by clothing. Don’t put DEET on sunburns or rashes. (Reason: DEET can be easily absorbed in these areas.)
Wash it off with soap and water when your child comes indoors. Caution: DEET can damage clothing made of man-made fibers. It can also damage plastics (eye glasses) and leather. DEET can be used on cotton clothing.
Permethrin Product – Use on Clothing:
Products that contain permethrin work well to repel mosquitos and ticks. Examples of these products are Duranon and Permanone.
Unlike DEET, these products are put on clothing instead of on the skin. Put it on shirt cuffs, pant cuffs, shoes and hats. Can also put it on mosquito nets and sleeping bags.
Do not put permethrin on the skin. (Reason: Sweat changes it so it does not work).
Picaridin Products:
Picaridin is a repellent that is equal to 10% DEET.
It can safely be put on skin or clothing.
Disclaimer: This information is not intended be a substitute for professional medical advice. It is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information.
Author and Senior Reviewer: Barton D. Schmitt, M.D.
Copyright 1994-2013 Barton D. Schmitt, M.D.
Powered by Pediatric Web
Need to find something?
Use the buttons below to jump to important sections on the website quickly!
Symptom Checker
Dosage Checker
Patient Portal
Pay Your Bills
Upcoming Events
In the News
Pay your bill online!
Make a Payment
Are you a healthcare professional?
Join the extensive network of physicians at Allied Physicians Group today!
Learn More
In this section:
Patient Resources
Vaccines
Forms
Insurance
Symptom Checker
Dosage Checker
Billing FAQ
Additional Info
Allied Physicians Group
3 Huntington Quadrangle
Southeast Tower, Suite #105
Melville, NY 11747
866.621.2769
Employee Links
Careers
Allied Physicians Group LLC 2016
About Allied
Specialists
Newborn Care
Telehealth
Blog
Allied Foundation