coffee | Julia's diets
Julia's diets
About
Tag : coffee
Benefits of hot chocolate
Posted on: 22.02.2017 /
Comments: No comments /
Categories: Health
When we stick to a diet or just try to watch our weight, give preference to a healthy lifestyle and eat right, all sweet seems taboo, forbidden and simply inconceivable. But this is not quite true. What do you know about chocolate? If only that it is harmful for the figure – you are wrong! Let’s talk about the benefits of hot chocolate, and you will definitely change your mind!
But it’s worth noting that we are talking about the melted chocolate bars, instead of cocoa beverages. By the way, people learned about the benefits of dark chocolate long time ago – in the 16th century with the help of this drink people struggled with a bad mood and treated colds.
The benefits of hot chocolate
Chocolate improves brain function
Studies have shown that hot chocolate can “wake up” the brain, improve memory, concentration. The point is that the hot chocolate increases blood flow and access of oxygen to the brain, helping us to think better.
Chocolate is rich in antioxidants and vitamins
According to the scientists from Cornell University (US), hot chocolate contains more antioxidants than green tea and wine. Hot beverage made of chocolate contains more antioxidants than just a chocolate bar, in addition, they become more accessible to the organism, which means more useful.
Good dark chocolate contains many useful substances: PP vitamins, E, B2, B1, A, potassium, phosphorus, magnesium, calcium, iron, folic acid.
Chocolate improves mood
This delicious and sweet drink helps to cope with stress, anxiety and depression. Hot chocolate stimulates the production of endorphins (hormones of happiness), improves mood and, thus, makes us feel happy. Cocoa beans contain dopamine, anandamide, serotonin and phenylethylamine – natural neurotransmitters that are part of many stimulants. But do not forget that your cup of hot chocolate should not contain much sugar.
If you drink hot chocolate in the morning, the whole day will be in a good mood. If you drink chocolate in the afternoon, it will add strength and vigor, and the evening with a cup of hot chocolate will become more comfortable and romantic.
Chocolate strengthens blood vessels
The hot chocolate has flavonoids, which help to stabilize or lower blood pressure, strengthen blood vessels and reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. But at the same time, physicians advise to drink no more than two cups of chocolate per day, because it contains sugar and saturated fats. Everything is beneficial in moderate quantities.
Chocolate can help in the fight against obesity
Of course, we can’t say that it is quite safe for the figure. However, the moral dissatisfaction sometimes leads to worse consequences. In small quantities, dark chocolate will not be as harmful as sugar. It contains fewer calories than sugar, but it is the same delicious and also improves mood, like sweets. If you replace all the harmful sweet things by hot chocolate, you won’t gain extra kilos so fast.
Some recipes of hot chocolate
The classic recipe for hot chocolate:
melt black slab chocolate, mix it with water and pour into a container with boiling milk.
Another more detailed recipe:
– dark chocolate – 200 g;
– milk – 50 ml.
Heat the milk to 50 degrees. Break the chocolate bar into small pieces. Next, place the milk heated in a saucepan to simmer in a water bath, and gradually add chocolate into it. When you added the main ingredient you need to constantly stir the drink until getting a homogeneous mass.
Recipe of hot chocolate with cinnamon:
– bitter chocolate – 200 g;
– milk – 700 ml;
– cream 20% fat – 300 ml;
– cinnamon – a pair of sticks.
Mix milk and cream in a container and then bring them to a boil. Crush sticks of cinnamon in a mortar, add milk and leave for 5 minutes in this state. Then strain it. Break a chocolate bar into slices and throw into still hot milk. Mix thoroughly.
Brazilian hot chocolate recipe:
– bitter chocolate – 125 g;
– milk – 500 ml;
– water – 250 ml;
– strong coffee – 60 ml;
– sugar – 100 g
Boil water and remove from heat. Add to the boiling water pieces of the broken chocolate and stir until it is dissolved completely. Pour milk into a separate saucepan and heat, so that it almost boiled. Pour the hot milk into the melted chocolate. Stir and add strong coffee and sugar. Again, stir and heat on a water bath, until the sugar dissolves.
Tags: chocolate, cinnamon, coffee, dairy products, liquids
Coffee for weight loss
Posted on: 31.07.2016 /
Comments: No comments /
Categories: Diets
I would like to offer you not to talk about green coffee, which is considered to be an effective way to lose extra kilograms, but about black coffee. It can be both harmful and useful. It all depends on how your body refers to it (contraindications – high blood pressure or heart diseases), in what quantities you drink it, what quality of coffee you choose and many other factors.
We are accustomed to wake up in the morning smelling its alluring smell, and its extraordinary taste can give us a huge emotional charge for the whole day. It occurs thanks to caffeine. It improves mood and productivity during the day. Many people rely on caffeine to combat sleepiness. If you are a coffee lover and wish to lose some weight, this article is exactly for you!
How does coffee help to lose weight?
Coffee temporarily reduces appetite, which may be useful for weight loss by reducing the craving for unhealthy foods such as fast food, sugary desserts and salty snacks.
The presence of caffeine has a diuretic effect on our body, which can lead to rapid loss of unnecessary kilograms. Caffeine stimulates diuresis, which increases the amount of fluid released during the day.
Black coffee for slimming is able to increase the number of calories you expend during the day. Caffeine stimulates the central nervous system, speeding up the rate of metabolism, helping you to burn more calories regardless of whether you relax or swim in the pool.
Also, if you feel tired, coffee provides necessary increase of energy level, which can then be used to get a few extra workouts a week.
Thus, coffee may help you to lose weight. By the way, we have already considered one variant of the diet based on coffee. Now, I will offer you some options that don’t require a special menu or a schedule of food intake. What could be simpler? Just drink your favorite beverage and lose weight!
So, the ingredients that we need:
100 grams of honey – 50 grams of coconut oil – 1 teaspoon of cinnamon
Mix all ingredients and a wonderful mixture is ready! You should add one teaspoon of the resulting paste into a cup of hot coffee and enjoy! It is recommended to keep this mixture in the fridge.
I just hope that you like cinnamon (to be honest, I can’t stand it). BUT! Cinnamon can easily save you from extra fat accumulation! It speeds up metabolism, has a beneficial effect on digestion and normal functioning of the gastrointestinal tract, and many other positive benefits for figure and health in general.
The coconut oil contains special fatty acids, which also accelerate metabolism and strengthen health of the liver. In a complex, coffee with cinnamon and coconut oil enhances the effect of caffeine in several times. I think the benefits of honey are well known.
A few another recipes of coffee with cinnamon for weight loss:
Take 1 teaspoon of coffee, cinnamon, cardamom and ginger. Pour this mixture with 150 ml of cold water and cook in cezve. After that, cleanse the beverage by filtering from the outside impurities, and add 2-3 tablespoons of orange juice. This is delicious!
Take 0.5 teaspoon of cinnamon and 3 teaspoons of ground coffee, mix, and pour the resulting mixture by 150 ml of chilled water. Brew in cezve until foaming.
Take 2 dessert spoons of ground coffee, one star of clove (spice), a small cinnamon stick and one pea fragrant pepper. Pour all of this by 300 ml of cold water and put on a small fire. When the coffee drink is ready, strain the beverage.
With all the positive gustatory and useful qualities of coffee, you should be very careful. Do not drink coffee at high doses, and try to choose a different way to lose weight, if you know about the presence of diseases in which coffee is contraindicated.
Tags: cinnamon, coffee, honey
Coffee diet
Posted on: 22.08.2015 /
Comments: No comments /
Categories: Diets
We have already talked about the positive qualities of coffee. Coffee not only helps to wake up in the morning and just enjoy the fragrant beverage, but also stimulates metabolism and contains essential antioxidants for the organism. Furthermore, coffee is useful for brain – reaction and attention. In addition, it has such important properties as to remove fatigue and to be a prophylactic tool against depression.
An important condition of the diet is to use only natural freshly brewed coffee; and of course, to drink plenty of clean water without gas. Coffee diet is designed for 7 days, during which you can lose up to 7 kg. Be sure to exclude salt, sugar and alcohol from the ration.
Day 1:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee.
Lunch – a cup of coffee, 2 boiled eggs and a salad of tomatoes and cabbage.
Dinner – 200 grams of steamed fish, salad of cabbage and greens.
Day 2:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee and toast.
Lunch – a cup of coffee, 200 grams of grilled fish, salad of cabbage and greens.
Dinner – 200 grams of lean boiled veal or beef, a glass of kefir.
Day 3:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee.
Lunch – a cup of coffee, boiled egg, boiled grated carrots that you can fill with olive oil.
Dinner – 2 green apples.
Day 4:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee.
Lunch – a cup of coffee, fresh or boiled vegetables (potatoes are not recommended), parsley root and 2 green apples.
Dinner – 200 grams of steamed beef or veal, cabbage salad.
Day 5:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee, grated carrots boiled with a little olive oil, 2 green apples.
Lunch – 400 grams of steamed fish and 200 grams of tomato juice.
Dinner – 200 grams of fish baked in foil, cabbage salad.
Day 6:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee.
Lunch – a cup of coffee, 200 grams of chicken fillet, salad of carrots and cabbage.
Dinner – 2 boiled eggs, salad from fresh carrots.
Day 7:
Breakfast – a cup of coffee.
Lunch – a cup of coffee, 200 grams of steamed veal or beef, 2 apples.
Dinner – 200 grams of grilled fish, salad of cabbage and greens.
Tags: coffee, liquids
Search for:
Get the news by email!
Subscribe now:
Categories
Diets (213)
Health (51)
Proper nutrition (62)
Seasonal tips (18)
Polls
What is the most effective way for you to lose weight?
diets
proper nutrition
periodic hunger strikes
tablets and teas for weight loss
sport
I eat a lot without getting fat
View Results
Loading ...
Archives
July 2017 (1)
June 2017 (3)
May 2017 (8)
April 2017 (2)
March 2017 (2)
February 2017 (4)
January 2017 (4)
December 2016 (3)
November 2016 (2)
October 2016 (1)
September 2016 (4)
August 2016 (7)
July 2016 (9)
June 2016 (2)
May 2016 (13)
April 2016 (9)
March 2016 (6)
February 2016 (3)
January 2016 (9)
December 2015 (7)
November 2015 (9)
October 2015 (28)
September 2015 (26)
August 2015 (16)
July 2015 (37)
June 2015 (35)
May 2015 (36)
April 2015 (41)
Tags
alkaline foods astrology berries celebrity cereals children chocolate cinnamon coffee color dairy products dietary supplements fasting days fats fruits Garcinia Cambogia hair herbs holidays honey lemon liquids nails nuts oil pineapple seafood skin sleep tea time treatment water
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
Recent Posts
Foods to preserve youth 08.07.2017
How the food color affects the body 24.06.2017
Lemon water 20.06.2017
Combinations of foods for weight loss 05.06.2017
Reese Witherspoon Baby Food Diet 30.05.2017
Heart disease and diet 25.05.2017
Cleansing with kefir 21.05.2017
Aloe Vera juice for weight loss 18.05.2017
Top Posts & Pages
Diet Maggi. Detailed menu
Kefir before bedtime. Benefits. Recipes
Semolina diet
How to lose 5 kg in 5 days
Tomato diet
Recent Comments
nat on Milk and green tea for weight loss
Health on How to lose 5 kg in 5 days
Julia on Astrological diet: Libra
Jean Albright on Astrological diet: Libra
Cat S on Diet of Geisha
Faye Bleigh on Astrological diet: Capricorn
Pages
Garcinia Cambogia
Copyright Julia's diets 2019