EXPERT ADVICE: REBOOT YOUR RADIENCE
↓ Skip to Main Content
Search for:
Home
NEW PRODUCTS
Skincare
Catalogue
Make up
Fragrance
Bath and Body
Hair
Wellness
Men
Accessories
FEATURE EDITORIAL
My Life, My Style
Portrait
HEALTH & BEAUTY
Ask The Expert
Beauty Feature
Beauty Science
VIDEO TUTORIALS
Complete Look
Eye Make-Up
Hair
Lips
Nails
Make-Up Illusions
HOW TO
Beauty School
Step-by-step
Get The Look
TRENDING
Catwalk
Celebrity
Editors Picks
Featured Trends
Streetstyle
STORE
Home › HEALTH & BEAUTY › Ask The Expert › EXPERT ADVICE: REBOOT YOUR RADIENCE
EXPERT ADVICE: REBOOT YOUR RADIENCE
Posted on September 8, 2017 by Beauty Edit Posted in Ask The Expert, Beauty Science, Skincare
Achieving an even skin tone and texture is no longer an ambition confined to Asian women. The truth is, dark spots – regardless of when we’re from – make us look older. We look at the clinically proven technologies and sophisticated skin care formulas for tackling hyperpigmentation.
1. PROTECT FROM THE SUN
The most important treatment for dark spots is simple: sunscreen. Hyperpigmentation is caused by the over (or under) production of melanin in the skin, a process that is sped up as a result of sun exposure. Melanin is produced to protect from the sun’s UVB radiation. Think of it as your skin putting on a pair of sunglasses: a dark layer of protection. Wearing a high SPF seven days a week, come rain or come shine, will prevent the formation of dark spots.
2. AVOID PICKING
In addition to genetics, hormonal imbalances and sun exposure, post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation caused by breakouts can leave skin discoloured. Picking at blemishes interrupts your skin’s healing process so – even though it’s tempting – don’t touch that spot! Treat post-breakout skin with well-formulated skin care products, including a BHA exfoliant and sunscreen.
3. EXFOLIATE
Many products pair brightening ingredients with chemical exfoliants like BHA or AHA acids. Exfoliating effectively targets hyperpigmentation by removing dead skin cells and accelerating cell turnover. You can also exfoliate manually using scrubs or a cleansing device.
4. MULTI-BRIGHT TECHNOLOGY
Multi-Bright Technology is a combination of two plant-based ingredients dioric acid (an oleic acid found in olive oil) and Rumex Occidentalis (a Native American plant). It’s an Oriflame patented, naturally derived technology that targets all stages of melanin production to correct and prevent skin discolouration. It acts on three levels: it inhibits melanin production, treats existing discolouration and prevents the future formation of brown spots. It has been clinically proven to reduce dark spots by 50%, out-performing other brightening treatments. Shop Multi Bright Technology in Oriflame Bright Sublime skin care set.
5. VITAMIN C
Vitamin C is a popular skin-brightening ingredient as it both lightens and prevents dark spots by inhibiting tyrosinase. Vitamin C is a tricky – albeit effective – ingredient to handle, as it’s extremely fragile. Also referred to as ascorbic acid, it’s at its most potent when stored in opaque packaging and sterile. Shop Vitamin C in Oriflame Bright Sublime Brightening Cloth Mask.
6. APLHA-ARBUTIN
Arbutin is a natural skin care ingredient that is extracted from the bearberry plant. It inhibits the production of tyrosinase, slowing melanin production; it’s a naturally occurring derivative of hydroquinone, which is an ingredient that is banned in Europe and Japan today.
7. HYDROQUINONE
Hydroquinone is a well-known treatment for hyperpigmentation, but it’s also a highly controversial one. In many countries it has been banned due to it’s harsh side effects.
Make your shopping experience more attractive. Register as an Consultant and benefit from the advantages of joining Oriflame
‹ Sublime Nature Tuberose perfume
SKIN BRIGHTENING EXPLAINED ›
Tagged with: Arbutin, EXFOLIATE, HYDROQUINONE, MULTI-BRIGHT TECHNOLOGY, Vitamin C
Turn your passion for beauty into a business.
Oriflame believes in the power of natural ingredients, which with the support of science, create the most effective results. Whatever your skin type or age, you will find in the different ranges of Oriflame, the products that suit you .
Mike & Annette Cook
Oriflame Consultants
Be part of this world of beauty. Join our team!
News Letter
Email Marketing You Can Trust
Instagram
Load More…Follow on Instagram
Facebook
Orinet - Oriflame UK & USA Independent Consultants
6 days ago
Tired of the doom and gloom of winter? Then some fun, pastel spring nails are just what you need! The best part is that they’re super easy to do at home. Just follow our simple step-by-step guide to learn how!
1. BASE COLOUR&nbsp;Start ... ...
Step-by-Step: Pastel Spring Nails Easter Inspired Nails | Orinet
beautyedit.orinet.co.uk
Tired of the doom and gloom of winter? Then some fun, pastel spring nails are just what you need! The best
View on Facebook
·Share
Orinet - Oriflame UK & USA Independent Consultants
1 week ago
Look at product 'Easter Offer Set' in Orinet independent Oriflame Consultants! - 481271 - £19.95 - - orinet.co.uk/store/easter-offer-set.html ...
Photo
View on Facebook
·Share
Pinterest
Twitter
Orinet-Oriflame UKFollow
Orinet-Oriflame UK@oriflameuk·
12 Apr
Look at product 'Easter Offer Set' in Orinet independent Oriflame Consultants! - 481271 - £19.95 - - https://t.co/LbeD2ua0HO
Reply on Twitter 1116604960689360897Retweet on Twitter 1116604960689360897Like on Twitter 1116604960689360897Twitter 1116604960689360897
Orinet-Oriflame UK@oriflameuk·
5 Apr
Look at product 'Love Nature Shower Cream Nourishing Almond Oil' in Orinet independent Oriflame Consultants! - 34169 - £3.00 - - https://t.co/Q6ikRsaeTe
Reply on Twitter 1114273897904508928Retweet on Twitter 1114273897904508928Like on Twitter 1114273897904508928Twitter 1114273897904508928
Load More...
Recent Posts
Step-by-Step: Pastel Spring Nails Easter Inspired Nails
Sunkiss Garden Eau de Toilette
The ONE Lip Spa Intense Lip Balm
Power Shine HD Lipstick The ONE
NovAge Anti-Redness Solution
This website is owned by independent Oriflame consultants trading as Orinet and is not affiliated with Oriflame For the official Oriflame website please visit www.oriflame.com
© 2019 Orinet | Oriflame Independant Consultants
Responsive Theme powered by WordPress
Top