7 Ways to Slow Development of Cataracts - Kadrmas Eye Care New England
Doctors
Eddie Kadrmas, MD
Richard Strecker, MD
Steven Nielsen, MD
David Chen, MD
Lawrence Rand, MD
Stephen Milt, MD
Aimee Gray, OD
Ashley Sousa, OD
Patients
Eye Conditions >
Cataracts
Common Eye Problems >
Allergies
Amblyopia
Astigmatism
Blepharitis
Chalazion / Stye
Conjunctivitis
Corneal Abrasion
Floaters & Flashes
Hyperopia / Farsightedness
Myopia / Nearsightedness
Presbyopia
Strabismus
Corneal Diseases & Disorders >
Corneal Ulcers
Fuchs’ Dystrophy
Herpes Zoster / Shingles
Keratitis
Keratoconus
Pterygium
Diabetic Eye Disease
Dry Eye Syndrome
Eyelid Diseases & Disorders >
Dermatochalasis
Ectropion
Entropion
Eyelid Lesion
Ptosis
Tear Duct Obstruction
Tumor
Eye Trauma / Injury >
Blunt Trauma
Chemical Injury
Penetrating / Perforating Injury
Glaucoma >
Open Angle Glaucoma >
iStent
Narrow Angle Glaucoma
Neovascular Glaucoma
Inflammatory Glaucoma
Macular Diseases & Disorders >
Macular Degeneration
Macular Hole
Macular Pucker
Neurological Eye Diseases >
Blepharospasm
Double Vision
Ischemic Optic Neuropathy
Stroke / Visual Field Defect
Temporal Arteritis
Retinal Diseases & Disorders >
Retinal Tears & Detachments
Retinal Vascular Diseases
Uveitis & Iritis
Resources >
Eye Health & Care Blog
Retina Digest
Videos >
Eye Anatomy
Cataract
Laser Cataract Surgery
Children's Vision
Common Eye Problems
Corneal Conditions
Diabetic Eye Disease
Dry Eye Syndrome
Glaucoma
Laser & Refractive Eye Surgery
LASIK Over 45
LASIK Under 45
Macular Degeneration
Plastic Eye Surgery
Retinal Conditions
Refractive Errors
Routine Eye Exams
Forms & Policies >
New Patient Forms
HIPAA Policy
Referral Forms
Financial Information
Services
Routine Eye Exams >
Children
Adults
Specialized Eye Exams >
Dilated Eye Exam / Slit Lamp Examination
Fluorescein Angiogram
Indocyanine Green Angiogram
Nerve Fiber Analysis
Optical Coherence Tomography
Refraction
Tonometry
Visual Acuity Testing
Visual Field Testing
Medical, Injection & Surgical / Laser Eye Care
Contact Lenses >
Contact Lens Types
Contact Lens Care & Safety
Refractive Eye Surgery >
LASIK Eye Surgery
PRK
Clear Lens Extraction
Implantable Collamer Lenses
Oculoplastic Surgery & Cosmetic Procedures >
Blepharoplasty
BOTOX®
Restylane®
Locations
Plymouth
The Pinehills
East Wareham
Mashpee
Surgery Centers
About
News
Affiliations
Patient Reviews
Careers
Contact
To Schedule Your Eye Appointment, Please Call 1-508-746-8600
Patient Resources - Eye Health & Care Blog
7 Ways to Slow the Development of Cataracts (and Minimize Risk Other Eye Problems) Today and Everyday: Cataract Awareness Month
6/21/2016
0 Comments
​As cataracts are the leading cause of blindness in the world today, knowing how to slow their onset and progression is important information. That’s why, for this Cataract Awareness Month, we’re looking at seven (7) ways to slow the development of cataracts.
​
Before we dive in, it’s important to note that while no clinical research studies have proved how to prevent or slow the progression of cataracts, eye doctors agree that the strategies listed below may be helpful. Further, each of the strategies listed are all considered good for general eye and overall health. In other words, they can’t hurt to try!
1. Protect Eyes from Exposure to Sunlight
As radiation from exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light from the sun can contribute to the development of cataracts, protecting your eyes from UV light is important. Avoid prolonged and excessive exposure, and always wear UV-blocking sunglasses, specifically UVB (ultraviolet B) blocking, when outside. Wearing a wide-brimmed hat in conjunction with appropriate sunglasses and sticking to the shade when possible can also help minimize exposure of your eyes to harmful sunlight.
2. Eat a Healthy, Well-Balanced Diet
Choosing a diet that has plenty of fruits and vegetables, particularly a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables, will help to ensure that you’re getting the vitamins and nutrients you need to support your general eye and overall health. In addition, fruits and vegetables contain important and powerful antioxidants, which help to support and maintain the health of your eyes.
3. Maintain a Healthy Weight
As obesity is considered a risk factor for developing cataracts and other eye and health problems, achieving or maintaining a healthy weight through regular exercise and a healthy diet is important to eye and general / overall health.
4. Don’t Smoke
If you want to protect your eyes from cataracts and other serious eye issues, don’t smoke. If you currently smoke and are ready to stop, there are many resources to help you. We recommend visiting your primary care physician or family care doctor as a starting point.
5. Reduce Alcohol Use
As excessive alcohol consumption can increase risk of developing cataracts and other series eye and general / overall health problems, reducing alcohol use and drinking only in moderation will reduce your risk of cataracts and other serious eye conditions.
6. Manage Other Health Problems
If you have diabetes or other conditions that increase risk of cataracts and other eye problems such as high blood pressure, following your treatment plan is important to minimizing your risk. Work with your doctors to ensure that your health problems are being managed properly, and use your primary care physician to help coordinate your care amongst any medical specialists that you may be seeing.
7. Have Regular Complete Eye Examinations
Complete eye examinations allow your eye doctor to assess the health of your eyes and your vision and detect any signs of eye problems or diseases. Early detection and treatment is important to protecting your eyes and your eyesight. We recommend the following complete eye examination schedule based on age:
Age 20-29: At least one (1) eye examination during this time
Age 30-39: At least two (2) eye examinations during this time
Age 40-49: Eye examination every two to four (2-4) years
Age 50+: Eye examination every year (annually)
​
​Although taking these seven steps today and everyday many not prevent the development of cataracts and other eye problems, they can help to minimize risk and slow development.
If you would like to discuss your risk of developing cataracts and how to prevent of eye problems or if you are due for a complete eye examination, please call us to schedule an appointment.
In our next blog post, we’ll take a look at modern, small incision, cataract surgery and if it’s the right procedure for you.
0 Comments
Leave a Reply.
EYE HEALTH BLOG
CLICK HERE to sign up for our eye health / care newsletter and have it delivered automatically to your inbox each month!
Categories
All
AMD
Cataract
Children's Eye Health
Cornea
Diabetic Eye Disease
Driving
Eye Allergies
Eye Cancer
Eye Exam
Eye Health & Safety
Eye Strain
Glaucoma
Injuries
Low Vision
Macula
Organ Donation
Sports
Vision Correction
Vision Loss
Women's Eye Health
RSS Feed
Kadrmas Eye Care New England
40 Industrial Park Road, Plymouth, MA 02360
The Pinehills, 1 Village Green North, Plymouth, MA 02360
3119 Cranberry Highway, East Wareham, MA 02538
133 Falmouth Road (Rt 28), Mashpee, MA 02649
Phone Number:
​1-508-746-8600
Hours:
Monday through Friday - 8 AM - 4:30 PM
Early Evening Hours Available - Please Call for Details
© 2015-2017 Kadrmas Eye Care New England • All Rights Reserved
KadrmasEyeCare.com Privacy Policy • Disclaimer of Medical Liability
Proudly powered by Weebly
Design by DivTag Templates