Nuisance Insect Control | Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Providing mosquito free, tick free and healthy outdoor living.
About
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
301-444-5566
Visit our Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery website
email us
Search Our Blog
Site Categories
Site Categories Select Category All Natural Mosquito Control Asian Tiger Mosquito Canine Lyme Disease Chikungunya Chikungunya in Maryland Community Outreach and Special Events Diseases Eastern Equine Encephalitis Healthy Family Lyme Disease Malaria Malaria No More Campaign Support Mosquito control Mosquito Facts Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness Nuisance Insect Control Organic Mosquito Control Outdoor Events Outdoor Living Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events Stink Bug Protection Tick Control and Prevention Tick Tubes Montgomery Ticks and Lyme Disease Ticks and Tick-borne Illness Traditional Mosquito Control Program Uncategorized West Nile Virus
Archive for ‘Nuisance Insect Control’
|
June 16, 2015
Don’t Let One Mosquito Turn into One Billion Mosquitoes in your Montgomery County Back Yard
The wet weather that has been occurring here in Maryland over past weeks presents the perfect mix of moisture and warmth, resulting in booming mosquito populations. In honor of Mosquito Awareness week, which is June 21-27, we want to do our part in making the public aware of the reality of mosquitoes we want to share with you the crazy, unbelievable facts about how fast mosquitoes can reproduce going from 1 to more than 1 billion.
You may think having an unprotected property means you will have a few pesky mosquitoes here and there. You will have to light a candle or spray some spray when you are going outside for the evening, no big deal. Right? Wrong. What you don’t know can hurt you, and your neighbors! It only takes one bite from one mosquito carrying West Nile Virus (WNV) or Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE) to make you, a loved one, or your neighbor very sick.
Only One Mosquito to Make you Sick. What Will a Billion Do?
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County we like numbers. Numbers help us make sure we are doing our job. How many mosquitoes did you see in your yard before we treated it? How many did you see after? Numbers are a perfect measuring tool. Let’s look at the numbers to see how in the world mosquito populations get to be so big so fast.
Week One
That one female mosquito comes a takes a bite out of you. The blood you provided her allows her to develop viable eggs. This little lady goes and lays up to 300 eggs at one time! (She can lay 3 batches of eggs in her lifetime.) About half of these 300 eggs will become egg laying female mosquitoes, hanging out in your backyard waiting for a meal to help them produce their 300 eggs.
Week Two
Now you have 151 female mosquitoes flying around your back yard laying their eggs. Not only will these mosquitoes be gaining 300 new siblings as Mom lays 300 more eggs, but they are also making Momma mosquito a grandma to 45,000 grandbabies. Add the grandbabies and siblings up and you have 45,300 new mosquitoes during week two.
Week Three
It is safe to assume half of week two’s new mosquitoes are egg laying females, or 22,650. Do you want to do the math? 22,650 x 300 eggs each = 6,795,300 new mosquitoes and that is just from the mosquitoes that hatched from week 2. You still have to add their mothers’ new batch of eggs laid (for simplicity we will skip that part).
Week Four
Keep doing the math as we have before and week three’s 3,397,000 new female mosquitoes are laying their eggs in week four. We are talking about 1,319,250,000 mosquitoes in your yard (and your neighbors I am sure) in just four weeks. Four weeks is all it takes for 1 female mosquito to turn into 1.3+ billion mosquitoes.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County wants to help you nip it in the bud when you are in week 1 or at the least, week 2. Doesn’t it make sense to eliminate 1-300 mosquito bites and avoid the whole math thing in the first place? Don’t fret if you are already in the thick of your mosquito multiplication problem, our traditional barrier spray eliminates mosquitoes on contact. With the time-released formula it keeps working for up to 3 weeks eliminating up to 90% of the mosquitoes in your yard.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Advertisements
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, How quickly mosquitoes populate in an untreated area, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Awareness week, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
April 9, 2015
Celebrate Without a Hitch: No Pesky Bugs To Spoil Your Special Outdoor Event
Special Events and mosquitoes and ticks are not a winning combination!
Planning an outdoor wedding, reception, graduation, anniversary, or even a children’s birthday celebration requires a lot of work! You want the day to go off without any disasters or complications. So you carefully line up the perfect foods and drinks, seating arrangements, decorations, and party favors. We’d like to remind you of another thing to put on your to do list: set up a Special Event Barrier Spray session with Mosquito Squad. You don’t want biting bugs like mosquitoes to swarm your guests, and ticks are probably the most unwelcome party crasher around. For Montgomery County, MD outdoor pest control, no one does special event tick and mosquito protection like we do!
Being One With Nature
Part of the joy of having an event outside is the pleasure of being surrounded by nature. The beauty and movement of the fields and flowers are a delight to the eye. The sounds of birds, crickets, and even the wind rustling in the branches add breadth to the space. According to the National Wildlife Federation, being out in Nature has many added benefits including:
increased Vitamin D is not only good for your bones, but good for your heart
people are nicer when in nature: more caring socially and as a community
stress levels fall within minutes of simply seeing green spaces
So, hooray for throwing an outdoor party: it’s a great idea! With Mosquito Squad of Montgomery County’s barrier spray protection, mosquitoes and ticks will not be joining in the fun. Montgomery Co MD outdoor pest control, we are your answer. Our EPA-approved barrier spray treatment lasts for up to three weeks, even between rain showers. It also is guaranteed to remove 85% – 90% of the biting bugs in the treated area. No mosquitoes. No ticks. No kidding.
Whether at your home or another outdoor venue, we are very cognizant of all the factors that go on behind the scenes to ensure that your special event goes off without a hitch. As an added bonus, we’d love to offer another great resource for any outdoor lighting of your special event. Call our friend, Kerry Wheeler, of Outdoor Lighting Perspectives to ask about his beautiful lighting options for your event venue or your home.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
We welcome your call for a free quote 301-444-5566 or email us at westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Posted in Mosquito control, Nuisance Insect Control, Outdoor Events, Outdoor Living, Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events, Tick Control and Prevention | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, Mosquito control, Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, tick control montgomery county
April 3, 2015
Your Guardian Angel For Montgomery County MD Mosquito Control
The fresh, warm air has us all wishing we could sprout wings and fly out into nature! Birds call; creatures chatter, and flowers begin to bloom. It is a magical combination of warmth and sunshine that beckons us to once again get out in our yards and enjoy the world around us. The balmy spring weather; however, brings something else with it as well: mosquitoes and ticks coming out of hibernation. Hiding out all winter season in abandoned tires, woodpiles, and sheds, they rouse with the heat and are naturally ready to feast, like little vampires. How do you fight a vampire? With an angel, of course! Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County is ready to help protect you, your family, and pets from pesky mosquitoes and ticks. To keep your yard from laying out the welcome mat to the pest kingdom, we have some divine tips you can take under consideration.
Mosquito Squad’s 5 Tips for Mosquito Control
Tip. Tip over those standing containers of water! Mosquitoes need only a bottle cap’s worth to breed in, so empty the water. This includes freshening bird baths and dog bowls at least every three days.
Toss. Toss out that old pile of leaves you’ve been meaning to get to. Adult mosquitoes use standing debris as their nesting ground, so keeping yard clutter to a minimum ensures fewer mosquitoes have a place to hang out.
Turn. Turn over any large items that may be holding stagnant water. This includes kiddie pools, toys like dump trucks, buckets, canoes, kayaks, or yard equipment, like your wheelbarrow.
Tilt. Double check all your tarps and gutters to ensure that they are water free. Sags equal pooling water, and that equates to a mosquito breeding sanctuary. It only takes 10 days for mosquitoes to hatch, and one adult female mosquito can lay up to 3,000 eggs in her lifetime. She is welcome to lay her eggs somewhere other than your yard, and by eliminating haunts for her, you reduce the mosquito population in your area automatically.
Treat. The best Montgomery County MD Mosquito Control is through the use of a proven, effective barrier spray. Our barrier spray places a boundary, or a “no fly zone” between your yard and mosquitoes. Unlike other companies who only spray around the perimeter of your house, we believe you are allowed to be in your entire yard, whenever you wish. Mosquitoes bites are painful and annoying, but it is the illnesses (like West Nile Virus and heartworms) that infected mosquitoes carry that make having a hedge of protection between you and them a smart idea.
Let Dread Skeeter and our trained service technicians be your family’s guardian angel when it comes to keeping 85% – 90% of mosquitoes at bay. Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery, we offer EPA-approved barrier spray protection for your entire landscape. We stand behind our work with a 100% satisfaction guarantee. Enjoy getting out in the beautiful warm weather and being a part of nature this Spring and Summer. We welcome your call for a free quote 301-444-5566 or email us at westmontco@mosquitosquad.com
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Posted in Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Traditional Mosquito Control Program | Leave a Comment »
Tags: Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Rockville MD mosquito control service
|
Tags
asian tiger mosquitoes biting mosquitoes Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD healthy outdoor living Heightening awarness of Lyme Disease in West Montgomery MD How to prevent Lyme Disease carrying ticks in your MD backyard this season Kensington Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention Kensington MD tick control and prevention Kensinton MD mosquito control Kentland mosquito control & prevention Kentland mosquito service Kentlands mosquito control in MD Kentlands Tick control and protections Lyme disease Malaria No More maryland Md MD tick control & prevention montgomery county Montgomery County MD mosquito control mosquito Mosquito control Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD mosquito repellent Mosquito Squad Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD North Bethesda MD tick control program Nuisance Insect Control Protecting against the risk of Lyme Disease in Maryland Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD Raising awareness of tick borne illness in Rockville MD rockville Rockville MD effective mosquito control Rockville MD mosquito control service Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention Rockville MD tick control The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention The truth about Lyme Disease in MD tick control montgomery county tick treatment West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
August 2011
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy