Real Salt which is Celtic Sea Salt & Himalayan Pink Salt is GOOD for you!
JOIN THE COMMUNITY – STAY INFORMED
JOIN THE COMMUNITY – STAY INFORMED*
Email*
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Health & Organization
Detox Body
Detox Home
Fitness
Health & Nutrition
Stocking & Storing Food
Recipes
Beverages
Breads
Desserts
Dinner
Lunch
Salads
Side Dishes
Snacks
Soups
Style
Fashion
Beauty
Lifestyle
Meet Sheri
Marketplace
CONTACT
Sheri Glows
Living Beyond Cancer & Getting Your Health and Home In Order
May 10, 2016
The lowdown on Iodized Table Salt & Celtic Sea Salt/Himalayan Pink Salt
Iodized Table Salt Versus Celtic Sea Salt or Himalayan Pink Salt
It is amazing how our culture as lumped all salt’s as bad and have turned the typical table salt into a very bad thing! As far as I knew also, all salts were bad, but that is just NOT the case!
Refined white commercial iodized salt is bad, very bad stuff, however unrefined natural salt, like Celtic Sea Salt ® and Pink Himalayan Salt are very good providing many health benefits. Sodium is an essential nutrient required by the body. Have you ever heard how ocean swims are great for you, it is the salt water! Have you heard of float tanks? They are salt/magnesium balanced and allow your body to naturally absorb those minerals we need. Here is the lowdown on Iodized table salt versus Celtic Sea Salt® and Pink Himalayan Salt .
.
Table Salt
Our typical table salt, yes, is very bad! It is so processed and other ingredients are added to it, like anti-clumping agents which contain high amounts of aluminum. Sugars are added as stabilizers and because of all the processing it takes out the natural magnesium which creates super high sodium. They bleach it and expose it to many toxic chemicals in order to get it to its final product. It also has ferrocyanide and bleach in it. This salt is highly concentrated with sodium chloride, totally unbalanced without it’s magnesium, toxic for your body and creates the blood pressure raising effect, it does not have enough magnesium to balance it.
Celtic Sea Salt®
GOOD stuff! Celtic Sea Salt® provides nutrients that naturally occur in salt beds. Trace amounts of calcium, magnesium potassium, iron and zinc. Celtic Sea Salt is not exposed to all the harsh processing and bleaching used to manufacture typical table salt that pulls out all the natural minerals our body needs and there are no additives. Celtic Sea Salt® is harvested from the ocean using natural elements, the sun, the wind and shallow clay iodizing ponds, a method passed down through the generations. What is so unique about this salt, is that it retains it’s moisture from the ocean no matter how you store it. It has a dewey feel to it.. It is like bringing the ocean to your kitchen..
Himalayan Pink Salt
Pin k Himalayan Salt contains 84 minerals and trace elements in ionic state and is a pink color and comes in little rocks that you can grind over your food or you can buy it in a fine grain. And is also mined from ancient sea beds, so it is pure from environmental toxins.
The benefits of Celtic Sea Salt® and Himalayan Pink Salt are long:
Rich in magnesium
Improves brain function
balances blood sugars
Alkalizes the body, stabilizes pH balance
Helps maintain healthy blood sugar levels
Increases energy Promotes healthy sleep patterns
Promotes a healthy libido
Helps prevent muscle cramps
Helps build immune system
Eliminates mucus buildup
Regulates heartbeat and blood pressure
Helps your digestive tract with absorption of nutrients
Improves sinus health
Helps with bone strength
Supports detoxing
Supports weight loss
Supports in balancing hormones
Pink Himalayan Salt can also be used to purify the air, I will post about Himalayan Salt Lamps soon.
For a more in depth look at these salts and comparisons, Dr. Brownstein has delved deep on this topic and even put out a book, you can read more about this here where you can also see a little video clip he does explaining about salt.
So as you can see REAL SALT is GOOD, Processed salt is BAD! And that processed salt is a common staple in homes across the US and other parts of the world, in restaurants and in fast foods, it is toxic….. However adding REAL salt, like Celtic Sea Salt ® and Pink Himalayan Salt
is amazing for your health!! Make the SWITCH and NEVER LOOK BACK!!!
What salt have you been using?
Filed Under: Health & Nutrition Tagged With: celtic sea salt, himalayan pink salt
Reader Interactions
Comments
Chris says
June 25, 2016 at 1:23 PM
Now I’m like, well duh! Truly thunafkl for your help.
Reply
readysetglow says
June 25, 2016 at 1:25 PM
That is great Chris! I seriously said the same thing to myself when I learned this!!!!! So simple yet we can be so unaware…
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Primary Sidebar
Sheri is a cancer survivor in 2000 when she was 30, after cancer she left her corporate job and took her hobby of photography and became an accomplished professional photographer and in the process became a transformed health enthusiast passionate about helping others make that transformation as well. You will find real life advice on battling poor health, getting your home and routine organized to support a better you, easy to cook recipes and great resources on where to buy your food, supplements, home & beauty products and more! Read More…
Stay Updated
First Name*
Email*
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Search this website
Follow Me On Instagram
Something is wrong.
Instagram token error.
Don’t Miss These!
Heavenly Blueberry Banana Smoothie!
Warm Lemon Water Morning Ritual
Be kind to yourself with Heated Yoga
Chicken Feet Bone Broth Recipe
Most Popular Posts
Chicken Feet Bone Broth Recipe
Homemade Turmeric Cinnamon Lemongrass Tea
Style of the Week Summer Dress
Style of the Week – Bye Bye Summer
Footer
About Sheri
Sheri is a cancer survivor in 2000 when she was 30, after cancer she left her corporate job and took her hobby of photography and became an accomplished professional photographer and in the process became a transformed health enthusiast passionate about helping others make that transformation as well. You will find real life advice on battling poor health, getting your home and routine organized to support a better you, easy to cook recipes and great resources on where to buy your food, supplements, home & beauty products and more!
My Favorites
stay connected
Email
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Pinterest
First Name*
Email*
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Copyright© 2019 · by
Home
Marketplace
Meet Sheri
Recipes
CONTACT