Wild Omega 3 180 mg EPA 120 mg DHA by New Roots Herbal | Look Great, Feel Happy, Healthy Heart (60 softgels) | Natural Health Products
Contact us: 1 800 268-9486
English | Français
Back
Toggle navigation
Close
Products
Category
Gender / Life Stage
Health Benefits
New Products Amino Acids / Proteins Antioxidants Enzymes Essential Fatty Acids
Fish Oils
Exotic Skin Oils Functional Foods
Cooking Oils
Fermented Products
Green Foods
Natural Sweeteners
Teas / Herbal teas
Glandular Extracts Herbal Extracts
Essential Oils
Medicinal Mushrooms Probiotics Vitamins / minerals
50+ Health Children’s Health Men’s Health
Men's Fertility
Sexual Health (M)
Women’s Health
Fertility / Maternity
Menopause
Sexual Health (F)
Blood Glucose Management Cardiovascular Health Detoxification Digestive Health Energy Hair / Skin / Nails Immune Health
Allergy Relief
Muscle / Bone / Joint Health Neurological / Memory Health Sport Nutrition Stress / Mood / Sleep Weight Management
View All Products
Catalogue and Pamphlets
About Us
History Analytical Testing
Store Locator
Contact Us
Flourish Blog
Laboratory
Videos
Log in
Back to Products
Download Pamphlet
Non GMO
Wild Omega 3 180 mg EPA 120 mg DHA
Look Great, Feel Happy, Healthy Heart
NPN: 80020862
Format: Softgels
WHERE TO BUY
Non GMO
Share now
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Description
Pharmaceutical-grade pure fish oil sourced only from anchovies and sardines. Wild Omega 3 fish oil helps improve cognitive function, supports heart health, and reduces inflammation.
Fish oil is probably the most important dietary source of omega‑3 fatty acids, which are vital nutrients. Omega‑3 fatty acids are one type of essential fatty acids, special fats that the body needs as much as it needs vitamins. Much of the research into the potential therapeutic benefits of omega‑3 fatty acids began when studies of the Inuit people found that, although their diets contain an enormous amount of fat from fish, seals, and whales, they seldom suffer heart attacks or develop rheumatoid arthritis; this is presumably because those sources of fat are very high in omega‑3 fatty acids.
These fatty acids reduce inflammation, protect against the abnormal clotting associated with heart attacks, and possibly inhibit cancer. These omega‑3 fatty acids differ structurally from omega‑6 fatty acids. Evidence from studies show that omega‑3 fatty acids may reduce the chances of getting atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, migraine headaches, and other heart and inflammatory diseases.
A study suggests that fish oil can be very helpful for bipolar disease, more commonly known as manic-depressive disorder. More research is needed, but this appears to be a potential breakthrough for this devastating illness, whose conventional treatments cause many side effects.
We do know that fish oil can lower serum triglycerides. Like cholesterol, triglycerides are a type of fat in the blood that tends to damage the arteries, leading to heart disease. Reducing triglyceride levels should help prevent heart disease to some extent. Fish oil also appears to modestly raise the levels of HDL (“good”) cholesterol. Additionally, it may help the heart by “thinning” the blood and by reducing blood levels of homocysteine. Blood clots play a major role in heart attacks, and homocysteine is an amino acid that appears to raise the risk of heart disease.
A further benefit shown from the consumption of fish oil is in the production of eicosanoid compounds; these compounds regulate the communication between cells. The species of eicosanoid produced from omega‑3 fatty acids, as opposed to omega‑6 fatty acids, seem to better regulate immunological responses, such as the body tissues’ response to injury or disease. There may be other benefits, too: A 1992 study in the journal The Lancet suggests that omega‑3 fatty acids prolong pregnancy by a few days and improve birth weights.
Omega‑3s are part of the cell membrane composition; that’s why they are called “structural” fatty acids. The more you absorb these precious fatty acids, the healthier your cells will be, and the better the communication will be between them.
Fish oil appears to be safe. The most common complaint is fishy burps. Fish oil should not be combined with powerful blood-thinning medications, such as coumadin (warfarin) or heparin, except on the advice of your health-care practitioner.
Directions of Use
Adults: Take 2 softgels twice daily with meals or as directed by your health-care practitioner.
Ingredients
Each softgel contains:
Fish oil (certified wild omega‑3 from sardines and anchovies) 1000 mg
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) 180 mg
Docosahexaoenoic acid (DHA) 120 mg
Other ingredients: Natural vitamin E (from sunflower) in a shell containing bovine gelatin, glycerin, and purified water.
Softgels Cardiovascular Health Fish Oils Neurological / Memory Health
Available Sizes
Format
Size
Code
Softgels
60 softgels
1000
Softgels
120 softgels
1001
Softgels
180 softgels
1002
Download Pamphlet
Share now
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Related Products
MCT Energy
MCT Energy is a calorie-reduced source of healthy fats easily metabolized to meet both mental and physical energy requirements.
Learn More
B12 Liquid
Our highly bioavailable B12 Liquid is a convenient and effective delivery method for this critical vitamin.
Learn More
Red Palm Fruit Oil
Our Red Palm Fruit Oil is a cholesterol- and trans fat–free source of nutrients with a high smoke point; a great alternative to olive oil for heart healthy cuisine.
Learn More
Heart Smart Extra Virgin Olive Oil
With 375 mg of plant sterols per tablespoon, Heart Smart Olive Oil is a great way to help lower your LDL cholesterol, naturally.
Learn More
Heart Smart Sunflower Oil
With 375 mg of plant sterols per tablespoon, Heart Smart Sunflower Oil is a great way to help lower your LDL cholesterol, naturally.
Learn More
Heart Smart Safflower Oil
With 375 mg of plant sterols per tablespoon, Heart Smart Safflower Oil is a great way to help lower your LDL cholesterol, naturally.
Learn More
Related Articles
Targeted Use of Fish Oil: A Review of the Evidence
Oily fish and fish oil are the richest sources of long-chain omega‑3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). DHA...
Stress, Simplified
There’s no shortage of tips, lists, and suggestions available from trusted friends, family members, spiritual leaders, television...
Autoimmunity and Natural Health Products
“Autoimmunity” refers to a category of health conditions characterized by the immune system inappropriately attacking the...
Natural Nootropics—Because We Could All Use a Boost!
When it comes to energy levels mood, memory and concentration, we all seem to have good days and bad days. But when the bad days seem to...
Autoimmune Health—Top 3 Supplements to Restore Immune Function
A healthy immune system is self-recognizing—it can recognize healthy cells as “self” and foreign cells as “nonself.”...
Fish Oil for Physical Fitness: The Next Best Workout Partner
What supplements do you take to support your fitness goals? Talk to any athlete or visit your favorite fitness website, and you’ll get a...
Get in the Game! Tips to Sideline Arthritis Pain
Every spring, my weakness for being the “patron saint” of vintage bicycles kicks in. While cycling through the neighbourhood, I...
Our Latest News Feed
Contact Us
New Roots Herbal Inc.
3405 F.-X.-Tessier
Vaudreuil-Dorion (Québec)
Canada, J7V 5V5
1 800 268-9486
info@newrootsherbal.com
I would like to receive the New Roots Herbal Flourish newsletter.
Stay up-to-date with our natural health products. Enter your e-mail and subscribe to our newsletter.
English Français
Naturopathic Currents Feed
FAQ Terms Disclaimer Privacy Careers Log in
© New Roots Herbal inc. 2019