May 2016 – Revalgo
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Revalgo
Month: May 2016
Baking Soda And Cancer
May 16, 2016 May 16, 2016 Revalgo	Leave a comment
Baking soda (Sodium Bicarbonate – NaHCO3) is a highly alkaline white crystalline substance. A salt composed of Sodium ions and bicarbonate ions, baking soda is widely used to raise/balance pH level of water in pools. It is also a disinfectant and effective fungicide against some fungus. Sodium bicarbonate is used in medicine as an antacid to treat high gastric acid levels, indigestion and heartburn. Also intravenous sodium bicarbonate is given in some cases of acidosis. Not only that baking soda is also used in the treatment of cancer in alternative medicine.
Baking Soda(Sodium Bicarbonate) for Cancer Treatment
Dr Tullio Simoncini – Pioneered baking soda use in cancer treatment
Dr. Tullio Simoncini is an Italian physician and oncologist who pioneered the use of Sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) in cancer treatment. Dr. Simoncini’s theory is that cancer is caused by the presence of fungus. Dr. Simoncini’s baking soda treatment for cancer is based on simple but solid scientific reasoning. Baking soda not only acts as an anti-fungal disinfecting agent, it also raises the pH of the body fluids making the body fluids more alkaline. It is a known fact that cancer cells cannot survive in an alkaline environment.
Dr Tullio Simoncini – Pioneered baking soda treatment for cancer
Dr. Tullio Simoncini’s basic tenets behind his cancer treatment methods are simple:
Cancer thrives in acidic environments => Baking soda is alkaline. Consuming baking soda with maple syrup raises alkalinity of body fluids => Cancer cells die off when body fluids are alkaline
Dr. Tullio Simonicini was ridiculed in his home country – Italy for claiming that cancer could be cured using baking soda. However, a lot of people seem to have benefited from his sodium bicarbonate based treatment methods for cancer. Dr.Simoncini treats tumors by identifying blood vessels that supply blood/nutrition to the tumors and injecting an intravenous solution of sodium bicarbonate into those blood vessels. He claims that sodium bicarbonate, when injected intravenously increases the pH in the tumor site. A temporarily raised alkalinity in the tumor site causes the cancer cells to die off, which in turn leads to gradual breakup of tumor and excretion of cancer cells as metabolic waste. Dr. Simoncini is the author of the book “Cancer is a fungus” in which he details his sodium bicarbonate based treatment methods for cancer. Dr. Simoncinis’ sodium bicarbonate cancer cure is well known in cancer related academic circles. Though many in the medical profession contest his baking soda based protocol, there are articles/testimonials in the internet claiming that baking soda has helped with cancers of many individuals.
Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate) and black strap molasses protocol
Ingredients Required:
Maple Syrup (Or) Black Strap Molasses (Or) Raw Honey – 1 litre
Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate) – Laboratory grade. Without aluminium
Black Strap Molasses
Baking Soda
Black strap molasses are always preferred. If it is not available then maple syrup or honey could be used in the place of molasses. The pH of the saliva/urine needs to be monitored very closely while following this highly alkaline protocol. Though pH strips can be used for this purpose, pH meter is preferred as it can give more accurate readings. Also, the health condition of the patient needs to be monitored closely by a trained physician while following the baking soda protocol. Do not attempt to follow the protocol without proper medical supervision.
An outline of the protocol goes like this:
Mix one tablespoon of baking soda and one table spoon of black strap molasses in a cup of water. Take the mixture two times daily before meals in the morning and evening. The mixture needs to be prepared fresh every time one takes it.
Take three readings of pH of Saliva, Urine three times (morning, afternoon, evening) daily. Record the readings in a table with clear labels of date, time etc.
As one starts taking the baking soda mixture one will see that urine/salivary pH raises gradually turning more alkaline.
Keep on 1 Tablespoon baking Soda + 1 Tablespoon black strap molasses routine for a weeks time taking the mixture twice a day.
If the urine/salivary pH reached 8.0, keep a close watch and try to maintain the pH between 8.0 and 8.5 for a weeks. Adjust the dosage of baking soda accordingly.
If the pH has not gone above 8.0 after a weeks time, gradually increase the consumption of baking soda to 2 teaspoons + 2 teaspoons black strap molasses at a time. This should increase the pH to 8.0 and above. Wind down the usage of baking soda to 1 tablespoon at a time once you successfully reach the target rage of 8.0 – 8.5.
After maintaining the target pH of 8.0 -8.5 for a week, stop taking the baking soda + black strap molasses mixture.
Here the theory is that black strap molasses / maple syrup acts as a carrier for baking soda as the cancer cells are more hungry and tend to take/burn more sugar than normal cells. Sodium bicarbonate, by raising the pH and making the body fluids alkaline makes the cancer cells survival tough. As a final note, please do not attempt to follow this protocol without proper medical supervision.
Note & Disclaimer: This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Aloe vera (Aloe Arborescens) and Cancer Treatment
May 12, 2016 May 12, 2016 Revalgo	Leave a comment
Aloe Vera / Aloe Arborescens
Aloe Vera / Aloe Arborescens is a plant widely used in cancer treatments. Aloe when taken in right amounts boosts the immune systems and helps fight/control not just cancer but other diseases related to weak immunity. Aloe Arborescens grows in hot tropical climates. Aloe is widely found in Asia, Africa, Australia, USA and tropical islands. Aloe is a stemless plant with thick fleshy leaves. The fleshy leaves have a gel inside that is widely used in traditional herbal medicine to treat variety of health conditions. Aloe is grown as a first aid plant in many civilizations to treat conditions like burns, ailments of gastro-intestinal tracts, excessive heat, diabetes, infertility, psoriasis and various skin diseases. Aloe Vera is called Kathalai / Natkumari in Ayurveda and Siddha traditions. Aloe has the ability to induce detox and get toxins out the body quickly. This in turn helps improve the natural immunity of the organism. Aloe is also a natural laxative.
Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera Plant
Aloe Vera is rich in vitamins A,B,C,D,E, beta-carotene and certain amino acids. It is also said to have anti-ageing properties.
Use of Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera in treating Cancer
Aloe Vera enhances the body’s ability to attack the cancer cells. It is also used to reduce the radiotherapy related skin burns when applied topically over the affected area. An extract called Aloe Emodin is found to block cancer cells in test tubes. Acemannan found in Aloe vera induces production of cancer killing cytokines. Acemannan also increase the production of nitric oxide that helps stabilize oxygen supply to the tissues. Aloe is known to shrink tumors and control cancer metastases. Cancer takes hold in the body when the immune system is not able to take on the cancer cells and when abnormal cells divide uncontrollably. Nutrients found in Aloe helps in restoring the natural immunity which in turn takes on the cancer. For example, polypeptides found in Aloe act as immune system stimulators. Polysaccharides found in Aloe helps to increase white blood corpuscles (WBC) that find foreign antigens inside the body. Research has shown that Aloe Vera use can increase both “killer cells” as “helper T-cells” that play a major role in fighting cancer and other immunity disorders. Hence Aloe Vera can suppress tumor growth and increase tumor cell necrosis levels. It also has lot of antioxidants that help control inflammation and oxidative stress. Aloe Arborescens consumption is known to alkalize the body taken and hence can make the survival of cancer cells difficult ( Cancer cells cannot survive in an alkaline environment). Aloe also helps relieve joint / muscle pains.
Aloe Arborescens Gel – Used in cancer treatment
Father Romano Zago
Father Romano Zago is a catholic priest from Brazil who developed the Aloe + Honey protocol to treat cancer inexpensively. Father Zago has also written a book “Cancer Can Be Cured” that details methods to treat/manage cancer using Aloe and various other herbs. Father Zago recommends Aloe Arborescens that contain glycoproteins Aloctin-A, Aloctin-B that is seen to inhibit fibrosarcoma in tests. Aloe Arborescens is rich in medicinal value than Aloe Vera. Father Zago has been advocating Aloe + Honey medicine for over three decades. Aloe + Honey is seen as a good cancer control medicine for the masses, especially in populations of low income. Father Zago’s work in popularizing Aloe + Honey treatment and taking it to masses is commendable!
Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera + Honey Recipe
Ingredients Required :
1) Half a Kilo of Aloe Arborescens or Aloe Vera leaf => Aloe Arborescens is more effective than Aloe Vera (as per Father Zago). But if Aloe Arborescens is not available, it should be Ok to use Aloe Vera. The leaves should be green and fleshy. Do not pick withered (yellow color/dry) leaves. Ideally the leaves should be taken from an Aloe plant that is atleast five years old. If older plants are not available then one may use leaves from younger plant.
2) Half a Kilo a raw honey => The honey should be raw and unheated. Synthetic or refined honey should never be used.
3) Five to eight tablespoons of pure alcohol (Whisky, Brandy, Rum) i.e around 50 ml alcohol.
Aloe Arborescens
Raw Honey
Alcohol (Brandy / Whisky / Rum)
Preparation:
Remove the thorns and spine from the Aloe leaves.
Thoroughly wash and clean the leaves with water
Cut the Aloe leaves into small pieces
Blend the cut Aloe leaves + Honey + 50 ml alcohol in a blender. Blend the mixture until the mixture until the leaves are finely ground.
Pour the mixture into an airtight container (preferably one made of glass) and refrigerate
Take two tablespoons (approximately 15 grams each time) of this mixture before meal three times daily. Do not store this mixture for more than 10 days. If the mixture is older than 10 days do not use it. Prepare a fresh mixture and use it for the next 10 days.
Frequently asked questions
1) Why should one take this mixture before meal and not after meal?
Usually, the body is relatively low in sugar before the meals. The honey in the mixture is the carrier and Aloe is the actual medicine. The digestive enzyme pepsin is ready to work before taking meals. The body absorbs the medicine better when the body is hungry for food.
2) How long can one keep taking Aloe + Honey mixture?
As long as cancer exists in the body.
3) What is the purpose of alcohol in the mixture?
Alcohol is used as a preservative
4) What should one expect while starting on this medicine?
Detox symptoms
5) What else could be done?
There are many alternative cancer treatments that could be used in tandem. We have information on few of these:
Annona Murricata / Graviola
Lakshmitaru (Simarouba Glauca) decoction
Please consult a good siddha, Ayurveda practitioner before taking any alternative medicine.
6) How can I help?
Please help us spread this message. Please share this info with your friends/relatives. Hit the share button at bottom of this page.
Consider following our Facebook, Google Plus, Twitter Pages:
facebook.com/revalgodotcom
twitter.com/revalgodotcom
Revalgo @ Google Plus
Note & Disclaimer: This website / authors do not provide any medical advice. This website/article is for informational purpose only. The information provided here is collated from multiple sources. Some of the details given here might be out-dated / incorrect. Revalgo.com does not accept any liability for the information provided. Please do your own research and use your discretion while availing treatments.
Search for:
Recent Posts
Baking Soda And Cancer
Aloe vera (Aloe Arborescens) and Cancer Treatment
Graviola (Soursop / Annona Muricata / Guanabana) and Cancer Treatment
Lakshmi Taru (Simarouba Glauca) Cancer Cure
Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Recent Comments
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Sudhakar on Graviola (Soursop / Annona Muricata / Guanabana) and Cancer Treatment
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Sudhakar on Shimoga cancer cure – Vaidya Narayana Murthy’s herbal cancer treatment
Archives
May 2016
March 2016
January 2016
November 2015
April 2015
Categories
Aloe Arborescens / Aloe Vera
Alternative Cancer Treatment
Annona Muricata
Baking Soda / Sodium Bicarbonate
Cancer Herbs
Cancer Treatment
Graviola
Guanabana
Shimoga Cancer Treatment
Simarouba Glauca
Soursop
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
sparkling	Theme by Colorlib Powered by WordPress