How to Get Rid of Cavities With 6 Natural Home Remedies
Privacy Policy
Contact
About Us
Home
Categories
Home Remedies
Teeth Whitening
Gum Disease
Dental Health Tips
General Dentistry
Wisdom Teeth
6 Simple and Natural Home Remedies for Cavities
Home Remedies
admin
Cavities are basically the decayed parts of your tooth. These may be due to lack of care and hygiene. Cavities are also called as tooth decay. This happens when your tooth and your gums are not bound together due to infection and plaque. You can easily get rid of cavities with some natural home remedies for cavities, so keep reading below.
So Let’s See What the Main Cause of Tooth Cavity Is?
The main cause of tooth cavity is said to be a plaque in your teeth. An important thing here you must notice is that this not a one day show. If you have a tooth cavity, it is because you have not been regular in cleaning your teeth for months and months. The plaque on your teeth along with the food particles stuck in your teeth and your saliva release a chemical acid. This acid is responsible for wearing your tooth enamel completely. The enamel is a thin layer made up of calcium and phosphate. This erosion by the acid by plaque causes damage to this layer. Tiny holes are made after the acids hit your tooth. Once the acid reaches the inner layer of your teeth, the cavity is formed.
How to Get Rid of Cavities at Home?
Mostly home remedies for cavities are based on the fact that these cavities are formed due to the lack of vitamin D in a person’s diet. Especially in children, this is more common. Many researchers have looked for reasons that cause severe cavities and tooth decays, and many of them have given reasons according to their research. Summarizing the reasons in points below…
Dry mouth or less saliva production
Eating foods that get stick to your teeth, especially candies
Frequent use of sugar products
Heartburn due to acid
Lesser cleaning of teeth
Bedtime infant feeding
How to Get Rid of Cavities in 2 Days? We Will, Provide you with Some Home Remedies for Cavities!
There are some best-proven home remedies for cavities are given below:
Use Sugar-Free Gums.
Sugar-free gums are said to be a mineral for tooth enamel. Using sugar-free gum is very much useful in remineralizing tooth enamel and making gum strong. Now you will think that how does a chewing gum help you fight with cavities. Sugar-free gums contain casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate, which helps in reducing the pH of plaque and help in the production of more saliva.
Vitamin D in the Diet!
Vitamin D does not itself help in the healing of your tooth cavity, but it helps collect calcium and vitamin K from the food you eat. Calcium and vitamin K are best for your teeth. You can use vitamin D from dairy products and from sunlight.
Use a Fluoride Toothpaste!
Fluoride toothpaste is one of the best toothpaste to treat tooth cavity. If you are thinking on how to get rid of cavities at home, then you must get fluoride from your nearest store and start brushing your teeth twice a day with it. Regularly brushing your teeth with a fluoride toothpaste prevent cavities and heals your teeth if you have them. it also remineralizes tooth enamel.
Stop Using Sugary Foods!
Sugary foods are poison for your teeth. Excessive use of sugar or sugar products can destroy your teeth completely. If you are thinking on how to get rid of cavities naturally then stop using sugar products till your tooth heals completely.
Oil Pulling Cavity Remedy!
Swishing around coconut or sesame oil in your mouth for a couple of minutes and then rinsing your mouth is one of the ancient tooth cavity remedies known. Oil pulling kills bacteria in the mouth. Oil pulling is the most effective home remedy for cavity. Oil pulling is the old version of today’s chlorohexidine mouthwash used for killing bacteria and curing gingivitis.
Licorice Root Tea!
Home remedy for cavity includes the use of Licorice tooth tea; it is also one of the oldest cavities home remedies. It is recommended that you use this tea twice or thrice a day as it helps to disinfect the cavity area and reduces inflammation. It soothes the gum wound and triggers the healing and binding process.
Moreover using licorice in lollipop makes it more effective.
All the above home remedies for cavities can work if you will follow it exactly.
Do I Have to Visit a Dentist to Treat Cavities?
If you think that how to get rid of a cavity without a dentist then know that tooth infection can also kill you! An abscessed tooth can be really painful. If the infection gets to your nerves, you cannot treat it at home. You must have to visit a dentist if your pain is unbearable. Tooth decay can turn into an abscessed tooth in no time. It is very much common so don’t take it lightly and make sure you get the treatment on time. So don’t just think that how to get rid of cavities, start the treatment immediately. You have already wasted a lot of time not cleaning your teeth so make sure you get proper treatment as soon as possible.
And yes! You don’t have to visit a dentist if your cavity is in initial stages. You must follow the above-mentioned remedies; they will surely help you get rid of cavities.
Post navigation
How to Stop Bleeding Gums with Simple Home Remedies
Home Remedies for Sensitive Teeth
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Recent Posts
Teeth Grinding – Causes, Symptoms and Natural Treatment
Swollen Gums – Causes Symptom and Treatment
Teeth Stains – Causes, Types, and Tips to Remove Teeth Stains
Chipped or Cracked Tooth – Treatments and Repair
How to Whiten Teeth with Simple Remedies
How to Treat Receding Gums with Natural Home Remedies
You Should Need to Know About Impacted Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Teeth Removal
How to Help Wisdom Tooth Pain – Know Before You Go!
Laser Teeth Whitening
Is Zoom Teeth Whitening Right For You!
Professional Costs & Options of Teeth Whitening
Pediatric Dentistry Is a Privilege to Treat Your Child.
Bleeding Gums – Reasons that You Need to Know
Do You Need an Emergency Dentist – We Will Help You!
Categories
Dental Health Tips (3)
General Dentistry (3)
Gum Disease (5)
Home Remedies (7)
Teeth Whitening (5)
Wisdom Teeth (3)
Most Popular
How to Whiten Teeth
How to Stop Bleeding Gums
Tooth Abscess Home Remedies
How to get rid of Sensitive Teeth
How to get rid of Tooth Decay
Home Remedies for Cavities
Wisdom Teeth removal
Home Remedies for Tooth Pain
Categories
Dental Health Tips
General Dentistry
Gum Disease
Home Remedies
Teeth Whitening
Wisdom Teeth
Pages
About Us
Contact
Privacy Policy
Search for:
Copyright © 2019 All rights reserved.