Baking Soda for Cancer: Does It Work? Top
Write For Us
Follow us for daily updates: Facebook Twitter
Makeup
Face Makeup
Eye Makeup
Lip Makeup
Bridal makeup
Celebrity Makeup
Teen Makeup
Makeup Ideas
Hair
Dandruff
Dry Hair
Oily Hair
Hair Growth
Hair Fall/Loss
Treatments
Hair Color
Hair Styles
Bob Hairstyles
Bun Hairstyles
Celebrity Hairstyles
Curly Hairstyles
Bridal Hairtyles
Hair Color Trends
Hairstyle Trends
Long Hairstyles
Medium Hairstyles
Short Hairstyles
Teen Hairstyles
Updo Hairstyles
Wavy Hairstyles
Skincare
oily skin
Dry Skin
Fair Skin
Acne
Masks/Packs
pregnancy skin care
Aging
Health & Wellness
Home Remedies
Superfoods
Ingredients
Fitness
Yoga
Diet
Relationship
Dating Advice
Family
Friends
Love Advice
Fashion
Celebrity Fashion
Teen Fashion
Wedding Fashion
Trending
Tattoo
Nail Art
Mehandi Designs
DIY & Tutorials
Recipes
Food And Drink
Search
Home
>>
Health & Wellness, Home Remedies, Ingredients
>>
Baking Soda for
Baking Soda for Cancer: Does It Work?
By Beatuy Epic on November 13, 2018 on Health & Wellness, Home Remedies, Ingredients
Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3), usually identified by the name -baking soda, is essentially a natural substance utilized for a diversity of household baking as well as cleaning purposes. Many people don’t know the uses of baking soda for assisting the body to prevent cancer. Besides, it is a tool which many cancer patients use in order to identify and stabilize cancer growth. Baking soda possesses alkaline properties which is capable to neutralize the acidic properties causing cancer. The baking soda can be used in combination with various other ingredients in order to cure cancer. Here we describe some effective ways to use baking soda for cancer treatment let us read know!
Article Contains
Does Baking Soda Cure Cancer?
How to use Baking Soda to Cure Cancer:
1. Baking Soda and Lemon for Cancer:
2. Apple Cider Vinegar and Baking Soda for Cancer:
3. Honey and Baking Soda for Cancer:
4. Baking Soda and Maple Syrup for Cancer:
5. Blackstrap Molasses and Baking Soda for Cancer:
6. Coconut oil and Baking Soda for Cancer:
Does Baking Soda Cure Cancer?
Baking soda is a naturally available substance with a variety of uses. It possesses an alkalizing effect, which implies that it works to reduce acidity. When consumed with other alkaline foods can help you to prevent cancer. It is known that the cancer cells in your body thrive in an acidic environment. Moreover, proponents of the baking soda theory suggest that decreasing the acidity of your body, which means that making it more alkaline would work to prevent cancer tumors from developing and spreading. Hence, it is confirmed that baking soda surely works to cure cancer.
How to use Baking Soda to Cure Cancer:
In order to cure cancer using baking soda, try mixing one tablespoon of baking soda to a glass of water. If the mixture’s taste is too much, you can do a 1/2 tablespoon twice a day.
1. Baking Soda and Lemon for Cancer:
Lemon is one of the citrus fruits, full of essential vitamins. It has capability to balance your pH, and fight against cancer like a boss. Lemon works to balance the pH and baking soda would work to make the environment alkaline, so the combination works well to fight against cancer.
Ingredients:
1 organic lemon
1 teaspoon sodium bicarbonate baking soda
8 oz of HOT (not boiling) clean and filtered water
Optional: 1 teaspoon or organic, local honey
Preparation Time: 5 mins.
Procedure:
First add 1 teaspoon of baking soda and the juice from 1 organic lemon to 8 oz of hot water.
Now stir and drink this mixture.
You can also add some honey to the mixture every other preparation and then drink for getting additional variety as well as synergy.
How it works:
Baking soda is known to be extremely powerful substance in boosting the body’s pH as well as neutralizing the acid.
Also, Lemon contains full of essential vitamins, capable to balance your pH. By doubling the lemon’s power and baking soda.
This combination works as a cheap, safe, and natural remedy without any awful side effects.
This ensures safe and simple treatment of cancer.
Repetitions: Once a day.
Best time to take: Before taking meals.
Tips: Those people facing severe conditions of cancer might need to consider drinking this mixture for 3 to 4 times a day.
2. Apple Cider Vinegar and Baking Soda for Cancer:
Apple cider vinegar has property to decrease the acidic effect of stomach acid. This in combination with baking soda, neutralizes pH level and kills the effect of cancer.
Ingredients:
½ tsp of baking soda
2 tbsp of apple cider vinegar (ACV)
8 oz of water
Preparation Time: 5-10 mins.
Procedure:
First mix ½ tsp of baking soda with 2 tbsp of organic apple cider vinegar (ACV) in order to make an alkaline forming environment inside the body.
Now this mixture will foam and fizz, hence use a glass and just wait for all bubbling to stop.
Lastly, add 8 oz of water to this mixture and then drink all at once.
How it works: This mixture functions to neutralize the pH, buffers stomach acid and decreases acidosis. As the acidic effect is decreased by the mixture, the mixture works to destroy cancer.
Repetitions: Throughout the day except before and after meals.
Best time to apply: At any time of day except before and after meals.
Tips: Take the mixture till you are capable to maintain the pH levels in range 7.0-8.0.
[ Read: How to Take Apple Cider Vinegar for Cancer ]
3. Honey and Baking Soda for Cancer:
When honey and baking soda are combined, they specially target cancer cells and kill them. It is known that heat binds both of them together just long enough to approach towards cancer cells.
Ingredients:
1 tbsp of Baking soda (aluminium-free)
3 tbsp Organic raw honey
Preparation Time: 5 mins.
Procedure:
First combine 1 tbsp of baking soda with 3 tbsp of honey in a small bowl.
Now Spoon into a stainless steel saucepan and then cook over low heat for 10 minutes.
Stir the mixture frequently and do not let it boil.
Meanwhile, you need to soak a sealed sterile glass jar inside warm water. Doing this would avoid it from breaking when it comes in contact with this mixture.
Now Spoon the mixture into one jar and allow it cool.
Now drink this mixture.
How it works:
Cancer cells usually thrive on sugar, consuming around 15 times more glucose as compared to normal cells.
This is the reason why honey works as a carrier, inviting cancer cells to gobble it up and enabling the baking soda to go through in the cells.
Repetitions: Three times a day an hour before meals, for period of month.
Best time to take: After getting sleep.
Tips: Make sure to only create a batch of this medicine at a time to guarantee effectiveness and freshness. Also, make sure to keep your body and mind healthy by staying hydrated, exercising daily, eating organic food and getting enough sleep.
4. Baking Soda and Maple Syrup for Cancer:
At first instant, the idea of combining baking soda with maple syrup might seem silly and paradoxical, as cancer cells feed on sugar. But, in this case, it is known that the sugar functions in a unique way. Cancer cells actually fail to use sugar for its growth, because soda kills them immediately.
Ingredients:
1 tbsp Baking soda
3 tbsp pure maple syrup
Preparation Time: 10 mins.
Procedure:
Mix 1 tbsp of baking soda with 3 tbsp of maple syrup
Now heat and mix it over an extremely low heat for period of 10 minutes
Lastly drink the mixture
How it works: The maple syrup functions in a way that it boosts blood sugar levels with purpose to inject soda directly inside the cells. The treatment acts like chemotherapy, destroying cancer cells, without causing any harm to your body.
Repetitions: three teaspoons per day of this mixture for one month.
Best time to apply: At any time of day.
Tips: During the course of this treatment, it is essential to stay away from the consumption of meat, table sugar, and white flour to allow the treatment to be successful.
[ Read: How to Use Turmeric for Cancer ]
5. Blackstrap Molasses and Baking Soda for Cancer:
The black strap molasses are regarded as natural sweeteners which when utilized in the proper amounts along with baking soda in mixture with water would enable the baking soda to reach the cancer site.
Ingredients:
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon molasses/syrup
1 cup water
Preparation Time: 5 mins.
Procedure:
First add 1 teaspoon baking soda inside 1 cup water.
Now heat the mixture at low temperature.
Now turn off heat, and then add the blackstarp molasses in the mixture.
Lastly, drink the mixture
How it works:
As sugars assist to feed the cancer tumors, the blackstrap molasses assist to carry the baking soda to the particular site.
This is because it is being pinched in by the water and sugar combination as food.
Later, the baking soda works to boost the level of pH and destroy the cancer tumour.
Repetitions: Once a day for 5 days.
Best time to take: Before meals.
Tips: Don’t make use of a microwave to heat the mixture.
6. Coconut oil and Baking Soda for Cancer:
The raw organic coconut oil is very efficient in the regeneration of skin cells. This when used with baking soda, decreases the acidic effect of skin cells, thus reducing effect of cancer.
Ingredients:
1 tbsp of raw organic coconut oil
1 tbsp of baking soda
One glass for effectively mixing the paste
One Small stirrer like the narrow handle of a small metal spoon
Polysporin Triple 3 Antibiotics, or any other antibiotic ointment can be used to apply at night.
Preparation Time: 10 mins.
Procedure:
First stir 1 tbsp each of raw organic coconut oil and baking soda in the shot glass.
Mix the mixture well till you get a malleable paste which is easy to apply on affected areas of skin.
Warm this mixture up, so that the coconut oil could melt faster.
Now fill a bowl with hot water and just keep the shot glass in it for some time.
Now make use of the handle you stirred with and just apply the paste to the affected skin area.
You can even apply a shower cap in order to keep the mixture in place.
How it works: coconut oil possesses skin cellular regenerative powers. Besides, coconut oil is an effective adjunct to baking soda. This combination when applied directly to cancer affected skin area cures it easily.
Repetitions: For first week, apply the mixture for 3 times a week and during second week, apply the mixture twice at properly cleaned skin-carcinoma surface.
Best time to apply: At any time of day.
Tips: Do not just rub it in the mixture. Simply slather the affected skin area with this mixture and leave it as long as possible.
It is possible that people have different kind of cancer and also the extent of its effect varies. Baking soda works best in combination of the different mentioned ingredients to treat cancer. However, you can speak to the cancer specialist to further discuss on proper treatment of curing cancer in effective and safe way.
Read Also:
How to Use Frankincense oil for Cancer
Image:- 1SHARE THIS STORY ON FACEBOOK
More from my site
Baking Soda for Gout: Does it Work?
How to Use Baking Soda for Bad Breath?
How to Use Baking Soda for Upset Stomach?
How to Use Baking Soda for Indigestion?
How to Use Baking Soda for Diaper Rash?
Apple Cider Vinegar for Cancer: Does It Work?
Article Name
Baking Soda for Cancer: Does It Work?
Author
Beatuy Epic
Description
The baking soda used in combination with other ingredients in order to cure cancer. Here we describe some effective ways to use baking soda for cancer treat
Written by: Beatuy Epic
Beauty Epic is the beauty network that sets a new level of trust and honesty in beauty world. We are driven by a commitment to prove Beauty Epic is best for beauty and improve women's lives by covering daily breakthroughs in beauty, Lifestyle and Health.
No comments yet.
Leave Your Reply Cancel Reply
Name
Email (never published)
Comment
Popular
Recent
Homemade Multani Mitti Face Packs for Beautiful Skin no comments
How to Use Coconut oil for Dry Hair Treatment? no comments
24 Trendy Pics of Priyanka Chopra In Saree no comments
Apple Cider Vinegar for UTI: Does It Help and How to Use It? no comments
How to Make Your Face Look Thinner – Makeup and Fashion Tricks no comments
Yoga for Osteoporosis – 7 Best Poses to Prevent Osteoporosis no comments
6 Best Exercises to Tone Your Thighs no comments
Ridges in Fingernails – Types, Causes and Treatment no comments
About Us
Beauty Epic is the Beauty Network that sets a new level of trust and honesty in beauty info. We are driven by a commitment to improve women's lives by covering daily breakthroughs in beauty, Lifestyle and Health.
Pages
Contact us
About us
Advertise
Authors
Privacy Policy
Popular Categories
Fashion
Hair
Health & Wellness
Makeup
Relationship
Skin Care
Trending
News Letter
Thank you for your subscription.
Your email format is wrong!
Sad, but we couldn't add you to our mailing list ATM.
Subscribe
Loading...
Copyright © 2015 Beauty EPic. All Rights Reserved
Let's be friends Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OK