healing crystal Archives - Moldavite
Skip to content
Menu
Home
About Moldavite
Inside a Moldavite
Besednice Moldavite
Moldavite Mining
Alternative Healing
Alternative Healing
Crystal Healing
Alternative Medicine
Chakra Healing
Moldavite
Moldavite Gallery
Menu
Skip to content
Shopping Cart
Checkout
healing crystal
Types of Crystals
January 17, 2014 January 17, 2014 by
Crystals are defined as solid minerals, in which component ions, atoms, and molecules are arranged in a regular structure. It is this orderly arrangement of the constituent particles that gives all types of crystals a straight edge and flat surface. Examples of common crystals include salt, sugar, snowflakes, gemstones, rubies and diamonds. Each of the crystal types possess a specific shape and different properties, based on which they are classified.
There are seven crystal systems or groups, each of which have a distinct atomic lattice. The atomic lattice is a three-dimensional network of atoms that are arranged in a symmetrical pattern. The shape of the lattice determines not only which crystal system the stone belongs to, but all of its physical properties and appearance. In some crystal healing practices, the axial symmetry of a crystal is believed to directly influence its metaphysical properties.
Cubic System
Also known as the isometric system, all three axes are of equal length and intersect at right angles. Based on a square inner structure.
Andradite
Attributes: Higher thinking, self-empowerment
Appearance: Granular to massive
Diamond
Attributes: Purity, abundance, prosperity
Appearance: Rounded octahedral
Fluorite
Attributes: Brings order to chaos, cleanses and stabilizes aura
Appearance: Nodular
Galena (Earth Stone)
Attributes: Strength, courage and ability to face difficult times
Appearance: Tabular
Garnet
Attributes: Energizing and regeneration of body
Appearance: Trapezoidal crystals
Gold
Attributes: Combats depression, instills confidence
Appearance: Rounded grains
Lazurite
Attributes: Strengthens intuitive abilities and psychic development
Appearance: Dodecahedral crystals
Magnetite (Lodestone)
Attributes: Used as a grounding stone, instills stability and balance
Appearance: Octahedral crystals
Pyrite (Fools Gold)
Attributes: Self-realization, clarification, protection
Appearance: Pentagonal
Sphalerite
Attributes: Psychic and spiritual development
Appearance: Massive crystals
Sodalite
Attributes: Brings order and calmness to the mind
Appearance: Massive
Tsavorite
Attributes: Comfort, strengthens the heart
Appearance: Crystalline masses
Uvarovite
Attributes: Associated with prosperity and wealth, promotes individuality
Appearance: Drusy dodecahedral crystals
Tetragonal System
Two axes are of equal length and are in the same plane, the main axis is either longer or shorter, and all three intersect at right angles. It is based on a rectangular inner structure.
Anatase (Octahedrite)
Attributes: Humanity, compassion
Appearance: Bi-pyramidal crystals
Apophyllite
Attributes: Regulates bodily functions
Appearance: Di-pyramidal crystals
Cassiterite (Tin)
Attributes: Higher love and true compassion
Appearance: massive or granular
Chalcopyrite
Attributes: connection to higher realms
Appearance: Tetrahedron
Scapolite
Attributes: Facilitates change and achievement of goals
Appearance: Massive crystalline
Scheelite
Attributes: encourages spiritual and psychic openness
Appearance: Granular or massive
Wiluite
Attributes: Balances and cleanser, self reflection
Appearance: Euhedral crystals
Xenotime
Attributes: Facilitates psychic development
Appearance: Equant pyramidal Tugtupite
Attributes: Encourages compassion and unconditional love
Appearance: Fine crystalline
Zircon
Attributes: Helps alleviate pain, facilitates detachment
Appearance: Tabular
Hexagonal System
Three out of the four axes are in one plane, of the same length, and intersect each other at angles of 60 degrees. The fourth axis is of a different length and intersects the others at right angles. Based on a hexagonal (6-sided) inner structure.
Apatite
Attributes: motivation, energetic
Appearance: Short hexagonal prismatic crystals
Aquamarine (Blue Beryl)
Attributes: boost memory, clarity
Appearance: hexagonal prismatic crystals
Benitoite
Attributes: psychic development
Appearance: tabular crystals
Beryl
Attributes: insight, self attunement
Appearance: prismatic crystals
Cancrinite
Attributes: facilitates meditation and regeneration
Appearance: crystalline masses
Carborundum (Silicon Carbide)
Attributes: calming and gently grounding
Appearance: Pseudo crystals
Emerald
Attributes: communication and friendship
Appearance: massive
Morganite
Attributes: Alleviates stress and anxiety
Appearance: crystalline masses
Pyromorphite
Attributes: Promotes vigor, vitality and personal strength
Appearance: prismatic to acicular crystals
Vanadinite
Attributes: reduces inflammation and engenders peace
Appearance: flattened hexagonal crystals
Zincite
Attributes: mood-lifter, bestows inner strength
Appearance: elongated crystals
Dioptase
Attributes: awaken love and compassion
Appearance: rhombohedral crystal
Trigonal System
(Rhombohedral System) – Axes and angles in this system are similar to the Hexagonal System, and the two systems are often combined as Hexagonal. In the cross-section of a Hexagonal crystal, there will be six sides. In the cross-section of a Trigonal crystal, there will be three sides. Based on a triangular inner structure.
Agate
Attributes: Calming, cleansing and protective
Appearance: Variegated chalcedony
Amethyst
Attributes: Master healer, soothing, calm
Appearance: Druzy clusters
Blue Calcite
Attributes: celestial communication stones
Appearance: massive
Brucite
Attributes: neutrality, clarity and balance
Appearance: tabular
Calcite
Attributes: Stability and trust-granular,
Appearance: rhombohedral
Chalcedony
Attributes: love stone, nurturing good will
Appearance: fibrous crypto crystalline
Citrine Crystal
Attributes: stone of joy, attract abundance
Appearance: drusy crystalline
Cinnabar (Dragon’s Blood)
Attributes: Assertiveness, vitality and power
Appearance: massive or granular
Dolomite
Attributes: self realization, accimilation
Appearance: tabular crystals
Hematite (Kidney Ore)
Attributes: Aids inner reflection and perspective
Appearance: ocherous masses
Herkimer Diamond
Attributes: Attunement stone
Appearance: doubly terminated prismatic
Magnesite
Attributes: boost self-esteem
Appearance: rhombohedral crystalline look
Phenakite
Attributes: cleanses and purifies the body
Appearance: crystalline aggregates
Prasiolite (Green Quartz)
Attributes: promotes intellectual development
Appearance: crystalline masses
Quartz
Attributes: transmit, cleanse, and magnify energy
Appearance: prismatic crystals
Rose Quartz (Love Stone)
Attributes: self acceptance, attracts love
Appearance: massive crystalline
Ruby (Red Corundum)
Attributes: Brings joy, vigor, and love
Appearance: elongated hexagonal crystals
Smoky Quartz
Attributes: grounding and protective
Appearance: prismatic and crystalline look
Tourmaline
Attributes: healing crystals, strengthen the heart, and protect from nightmares
Appearance: acicular prismatic
Orthorhombic System
(Rhombic System) Three axes, all of different lengths, are at right angles to each other. Based on a rhombic (diamond-shaped) inner structure.
Alexandrite (Chrysoberyl)
Attributes: Independence, achievement of goals
Appearance: rough tabular crystals
Andalusite (Chiastolite)
Attributes: ward off the evil eye and negativity
Appearance: prismatic crystals
Aragonite
Attributes: grounding, strengthens the base connection-prismatic
Bornite (Peacock Ore)
Attributes: Advance in spiritual realms
Appearance: granular to massive
Baryte
Attributes: Dream recall, inner vision
Appearance: tabular, fibrous
Celestite
Attributes: attune to higher realms
Appearance: tabular
Cerussite
Attributes: healing and grounding stone
Appearance: varied morphology
Chrysocolla
Attributes: detoxifying, balancing and calming
Appearance: bubbly crystals
Danburite
Attributes: string healer, detoxifier
Appearance: prismatic crystals
Enstatite (Bronzite)
Attributes: lively, friendly, mood-lifting
Appearance: crystalline masses
Hemimorphite (Calamine)
Attributes: balances male-female energy
Appearance: thin tabular crystals
Iolite
Attributes: detoxification, letting go of addictions
Appearance: Pseudo crystals
Lollingite
Attributes: gently grounding, calm,self-belief
Appearance: prismatic crystals
Olivine (Peridot)
Attributes: bestow wisdom and friendship
Appearance: massive to granular
Ramzaite (Lorenzenite)
Attributes: stabilizes emotional and physical imbalance
Appearance: bladed prismatic
Shattuckite
Attributes: inner strength, courage, remember information
Appearance: botryoidal and spherical
Stibnite (Antimony Glance)
Attributes: inner stillness and centering
Appearance: prismatic crystals with vertical striations
Sulfur
Attributes: cleanse and eliminate negativity	blocky
Appearance: dipyramidal crystalline look
Tanzanite (Zoisite)
Attributes: communication, anti depressant
Appearance: massive crystalline aggregates
Topaz
Attributes: bestows happiness, love and abundance
Appearance: distinct prismatic crystals
Variscite
Attributes: calming, increases perception
Appearance: encrusted masses
Wavellite
Attributes: calms and gently balanced feeling
Appearance: radiating fibrous crystals
Monoclinic System
There are three axes, each of different lengths. Two are at right angles to each other and the third is inclined. Based on a parallelogram inner structure.
Aegirine (Sword Stone)
Attributes: gathers and consolidates scattered energy
Appearance: elongated blade
Azurite (Stone of Heaven)
Attributes: intellectual logic with love, calms and relieves stress
Appearance: tabular prismatic
Brazilianite
Attributes: opens us to universal love
Appearance: Prismatic, spherical drusses
Charoite
Attributes: transformation, overcome fears
Appearance: fibrous massive
Crocoite
Attributes: vitality, passion and zest
Appearance: coarsely crystalline
Clinoclase
Attributes: balances and calms
Appearance: drusy crystalline
Desert Rose
Attributes: self improvement
Appearance: spherical and disk shaped crystals
Epidote (Pistacite)
Attributes: warmth, light, and expansion
Appearance: very prismatic crystalline look
Fuchsite
Attributes: accept human flaws, love and compassion
Appearance: massive
Glendonite
Attributes: tranformation. Transmutation
Appearance: pyramidal
Hyalophane
Attributes: clairvoance
Appearance: massive crystals
Heulandite
Attributes: reorganizes, stimulates
Appearance: one/grouped crystals
Hiddenite (Green Spodumene)
Attributes: cheering and uplifting
Appearance: elongated striated crystals
Hureaulite
Attributes: inner expansion, stimulates
Appearance: short and prismatic crystal
Malachite
Attributes: healer and very good balancer
Appearance: massive crusts
Moonstone (Rainbow)
Attributes: develops psychic potential, introspection
Appearance: massive crystals
Nephrite
Attributes: longevity and strength, protection against failure
Appearance: massive
Petalite (Castorite)
Attributes: promotes psychic and spiritual development
Appearance: massive crystals
Rhodolite
Attributes: detoxifying, mood lifting, calming
Appearance: tabular
Selenite (Satin Spar)
Attributes: calming, understanding and concentration
Appearance: granular masses
Staurolite (Fairy Cross)
Attributes: stress reliever and mood-lifter
Appearance: twinned crystals
Tremolite
Attributes: Alleviates sadness and depression
Appearance: prismatic bladed
Diopside
Attributes: protecting, mediative state
Appearance: crystalline masses
Titanite (Sphene)
Attributes: calming, balancing
Appearance: flattened wedge shaped crystals
Vivianite
Attributes: stimulates healing process
Appearance: flattened prismatic crystals
Triclinic System
All three axes are of different lengths and inclined towards each other. Based on a ‘triclinic’ inner structure, meaning ‘three inclined angles’.
Ajoite
Attributes: forgiveness and compassion
Appearance: phantom quartz
Albite
Attributes: clarity in thought, emotional stabilizer
Appearance: tabular
Amazonite
Attributes: Hope stone-Anti-depressant, calming
Appearance: prismatic crystals
Amblygonite
Attributes: Divinity, very balanced emotions
Appearance: crude crystals
Axinite
Attributes: heals bone tissue, anti-negativity
Appearance: flattened axe-head
Kyanite
Attributes: spiritual and healing, alignment stone
Appearance: elongated blade crystals
Labradorite (Spectrolite)
Attributes: Revelation of psychic abilities
Appearance: crystalline aggregates
Okenite
Attributes: Self forgiveness, eases karmic guilt
Appearance: thin straight crystals
Oligoclase
Attributes: inner strength and solidity
Appearance: massive crystalline aggregates
Rhodonite (Rescue Stone)
Attributes: understanding, strengthens friendship
Appearance: tabular
Sunstone
Attributes: mood lifting, anti depressant, self worth
Appearance: massive crystalline
Turquoise
Attributes: protection, strength and good health
Appearance: reniform crystals
Larimar (Atlantis Stone)
Attributes: dissolves fear, promotes inner peace
Appearance: crystalline masses
Amorphous
No crystal structure. Most of these are either cooled too quickly to crystallize – such as obsidian or moldavite, or are organic – such as amber.
Amber(Liquid Sunshine)
Attributes: Good-luck and happiness
Moldavite
Attributes: protects the heart
Opal
Attributes: energizes, balances, and lifts the spirits-crystalline masses
Obsidian
Attributes: brings clarity, increases self-control, protective stone
Crystal healing is a phenomenon wherein the properties of crystals and stones are used to manipulate our thoughts and emotions, so as to help manage anger, stress, depression, disease symptoms, and other negative energies in the body. With the increased popularity of crystal healing, rigorous studies have been done on crystals and their meanings.
Categories BlogTags appearance crystalline, appearance elongated, appearance massive, appearance prismatic, appearance tabular, attributes calming, compassion appearance, crystal healing, crystal structure, crystal systems, crystalline masses, development appearance, druse (geology), healing crystal, healing crystals, healing process, hexagonal crystal system, male-female energy, massive crystalline, massive crystals, prismatic crystals, product issues, product recall, rose quartz, scattered energy, self attunement, smoky quartz, stone attributes, trigonal crystal systemLeave a comment
Crystal Energy
November 14, 2013 by Glenis
Crystal energy can be used to increase the energies that help healing the body and mind. Unbalances in the body’s energy field can be caused by the mind focusing on negative aspects. Crystal energy helps change negative energies and replaces them with positive energies.
Reiki healing training in delhi ncr india from DIVINE CENTRE PATH TOWARDS SPIRITUALITY
Crystal energy affects your body by balancing your body’s energy. I will not be touching here on the use of crystals healing by means of a healer; however, I will focus on the use of crystal energy and the theory behind healing crystals and gemstones.
The theory behind crystal energy is to do with the Quantum theory. The Quantum theory considers the Universe and all things that make it, as existing in an empty space with forms of energy moving within each space. Of course this includes our physical body which is a space with energy flowing infinitely through its own space. Your body’s energy is used when you breath and when you show emotions and thoughts.
The healing processes of crystals and gemstones are considered a special flow of energy that change the way the destructive energy flows. This special flow of energy can be helped by the use of healing crystals and gemstones to improve and speed up the healing processes. Crystals and gemstones can be used as a tool to give the healing flow of energy an important boost in adding power to achieve cures.
Crystal energy and crystals are a tool that can enhance not just your health, but anything you undertake. Although crystals and gemstones occupy a different space than our body and mind, within the Universe there occur an interaction between your body and mind and the energy forms. This interaction is executed through shared properties resulting from the energy flow.
For example, the electromagnetic properties of a Quartz crystal share the same type of electromagnetic properties of the body, thus somehow the crystal’s electromagnetic energy flows can positively interact with the same electromagnetic energy flow of the human body.
The quantum theory helps to explain the effect of crystals in our psychological and biological life. Even disregarding the Quantum theory, the use of healing crystals and gemstones has been a beneficial practice used by people throughout centuries. This practice is very beneficial for the healing processes.
Crystals and their colors correspond to chakra points in your body. These have been found to have cleansing and energizing properties that interact with the body causing them to work on problem areas. Appling the energy of the crystals and gemstones to the body enhances the cleansing and energizing effect to the body.
Below is a list of the chakras and most popular crystals used in healing.
Root Chakra: Jasper (bloodstone), garnet, onyx and rubies.
Second Chakra: Hematite and moonstone.
Third Chakra: Citrine, amber and topaz.
Fourth Chakra: Rose quartz and Chinese Fluorite.
Fifth Chakra: Aquamarine and turquoise.
Six Chakra: Sapphire, turquoise and amethyst.
Seventh Chakra: Clear quartz and amethyst.
Categories Alternative HealthTags crystal energy, crystal energy helps, crystals healing, cures crystal, destructive energy flows, electromagnetic energy, electromagnetic energy flow, electromagnetic energy flows, electromagnetic properties, energy field, energy flow, energy flowing, energy flows, energy forms, energy moving, gemstones occupy, healing crystal, healing crystals, healing process, human body, physical body, processes crystals, quantum theory, rose quartz, special flowLeave a comment
10 Most Popular Crystals For Healing
November 14, 2013 by Glenis
Crystal healing is an idea first popularized in the west in the 1930s. Most common crystals belong to the quartz family from Australia, Brazil and Arizona. They are inexpensive and can be purchased online or by ordering from health shops. There are many crystals with a unique set of healing abilities.
Alternative healing is one of the fastest growing sectors of the medical world. More and more people are turning to homeopathic remedies to heal themselves with zero chance of side effects. Here are 10 fantastic crystals to help you heal yourself.
1. Salt crystal rocks improve the quality of air by enriching it with negative ions. These ions are natural air ionizers and have several health benefits. Patients suffering from chronic congestive problems are treated using these crystals.
2. Rose quartz crystals have the ability of soothing and calming a person. The crystal encourages love for the patient and others. This crystal has a warm pink color and heals physical heart ailments and emotional heartbreaks. Hanging this crystal around your neck in times of sadness will boost natural healing.
3. Jade is a green healing crystal for the heart and kidney. Additionally, it offers mental and emotional balance to someone. The crystal teaches acceptance, carries calming and serene energy and helps one get less critical of others and self.
4. Methysts are bluish to purple crystals that aid in reducing occurrence of nightmares thus allowing one have a better sleep. They can also affect any blood sugar imbalance positively as well as assist in quelling and controlling anger.
5. Fluorite is a crystal that guards one against picking negative energies and negativity from nearby people. It absorbs negativity and keeps it at bay. Placing fluorite in the bedroom at night will help with a resting nights sleep. The fluorite will absorb the negative energies responsible for bad dreams and fitful sleep.
6. Lapis is an Egyptian energy crystal believed to unlock mysteries and help one move through emotional and confusion blocks. Additionally, it digs through muck to the root cause of problematic issues.
7. Hematite is a grounding crystal that is silver-gray and metallic. It is regularly used as a grounding tool that helps those who are inclined to avoid worldly events by out-of-body flights.
8. Kyanite is a blue crystal that facilitates channeling and opens communication centers to contact with your angels and guides. It is best known for the balancing properties it possesses and clears itself of any negative energy.
9. Obsidian crystals are perfect protective and grounding agents that come in various varieties. They help one surrender past pathways or negative habits. It brings about an opportunity for serenity, clarity and change.
10. Citrine is a beautiful yellow crystal that helps people manifests your goals. It also makes one cheerful attracting personal power and abundance. Placing this crystal in your office or home will help to boost the body’s natural ability to heal.
Using crystals is a unique way to boost your body’s ability to heal itself in a natural way. For those who want to heal without prescription medications and prevent negative feelings in the body (both physically and emotionally) crystals can help.
The crystal gateway newsletter from Rosalie Muir
Categories Alternative HealthTags alternative healing, chronic congestive problems, crystal encourages, crystal healing, energy crystal, healing crystal, heals physical, health medical pharma, heartbreaks hanging, homeopathic remedies, natural healing, negative energy, negative ions, root cause, rose quartz, rose quartz crystals, serene energy, warm pinkLeave a comment
How To Heal With The Power Of Gemstones
November 14, 2013 November 14, 2013 by Glenis
Subconsciously you select certain stones for the energies the posses, energies you are struggling to acquire or balance. For centuries crystals and gemstones have been designed and used consciously for healing reasons. Diamond crystals are six-sided or eight-sided, although they are frequently found inside distorted and irregular shapes. A diamonds value depends on its hardness and its brilliance, extracted from a significant index of refraction, or bending of light rays, that accounts for the so-called fire produced by cutting the stone inside such a method which light is refracted plus very dispersed because it passes by the gemstone.The value of the cut diamond depends on its color, purity, plus size, plus the skill with that it happens to be cut. Every chakra has an essential associated color and auxiliary hues. When you know these shade associations, we can offer benefits to particular parts of the body by corresponding hues of the crystals or minerals. Below there are lists of gemstones which are thought to aid with or relate to matters of love and chance. A brief description of every stone’s meaning is equally included. When I think of the August birthstone, Peridot, shimmering translucence comes to mind. These gemstones are beautiful, yellowish green to green inside color. If the appearance we want to achieve is chunky plus bold then the heavier beads are the ones which we will need, you are able to employ these about their own or you are able to compliment them with other stones plus beads. If the look you wish is finer plus more delicate then your smaller beads are the ones to select plus as with the greater beads you are able to blend these with different stones.
Vedic astrology says which gems are used for learning the planetary weaknesses of the human’s astrological graph. Such weaknesses countless times are the reasons for physical and psychological problems inside the folks. Make sure that we take time to make cost comparisons because the time carrying this out might protect you a great deal of money inside a final part of handmade jewellery plus we never like to find later which you have bought your gemstones of the same quality someplace else at half the cost. Decide which metal you would like the stones setting into as well as the kind of designs the handmade jewellery will be because this might influence the gemstones you are going to purchase because several stones look beautiful set inside silver plus certain look amazing set in gold. Conclusion- Consistently aim for a untreated all-natural gemstone plus insist about a written statement about treatments if any. Ignore diffused Sapphires, Gum/Resin filled Emeralds, Dyed Yellow Sapphires and cultured Pearls (Insist on a Radiography report in case of pearls.). It has graced many queens and stars owing to its elegance plus shine. Additionally it constantly is within fashion because lots of years. Other gemstones are pearls and jade that are equally found in abundance inside Australia. It is believed a diamond could absorb plus amplify the thoughts of it’s owner and the strengths plus weaknesses of different gemstones. In India, Gold Jewelry and Silver Jewelry have their own traditional values plus importance. which cant be replaced by anyother precious information or stone.
It’s worthwhile to recognize what they mean when buying. Here’s a short glossary: Natural – All-natural gemstones are pure, meaning they have been found inside nature, and not altered inside any means, other than cut and refined. Colors fluctuate from shades of white, cream, rose, black, gray, bronze, blue, purple, yellow, plus even red. Most people consider them elegant, breathtaking, and valuable. the sacred texts have listed 6 karmic paths to eliminate difficulties, tide over issues and finally emerge victorious with a feeling of fulfilment plus happiness. The 6 paths to alter negative karmic life map are: 1) Mantra. The choice of that gemstone to include in a part is strictly down to the individual and is subject to all types of influences including birthdate, fashion or even superstition. But you’ll moreover discover soft pinks inside each imaginable shade. 10 Common Psychic Gemstones and Crystals Amethyst Amethyst is popularly known as the “Master Healing Crystal.” This psychic crystal can calm and balance emotions; this is why it is used for healing of blood and breathing problems. Amethysts are equally used because dream stones to do away with insomia plus bring about pleasant dreams. This is prepared possible because gems substantiate a vivid concentration of energy plus eliminate the obstructions which can happen inside the flow of life force inside the existence. Promotes confidence, well-defined thinking, will force and personal energy in existence.
We can find each potential shade of pink inside tourmaline, including unusual bi-color and tri-color pieces. If you’re looking for a hot pink gemstone jewelry, you’ll many likely find it in tourmaline. It is colorless, pale blue, or pale yellow-brown in color, plus resembles aquamarine. The naturally occurring crystals of the mineral are obelisk-shaped, as well as the best quality jewels are mined from Namibia. If you are like to create a part of handcrafted jewellery that is big and bold there are several semi-precious stones we can source inside big slabs. Native American Indians utilized these amazing pearls both for decorative purposes plus because “wampum” or cash. Just wear a Gemstone of the representing world set in a finger ring plus just forget everything. It assists one allow go of all that’s gone plus embrace the religious destiny. Emerald is the sacred stone of the goddess Venus, and is recognized to maintain love. Ceylonese Gomed must be used about Saturday at time of sunlight set inside middle finger of appropriate hand.
Categories Alternative HealthTags diamond crystals, gemstones, gemstones and crystals, gold jewelry, handmade jewellery, healing crystal, personal energy, precious information, refined colors, shine additionally, stones, traditional values, white creamLeave a comment
Healing Stones and Crystals – Crystal Healing – iBuzzle
November 5, 2013 November 5, 2013 by
Want to know more about healing with crystals and gemstones? Read on…
Gemstones and crystals have had a long association with mankind. For centuries, man has used crystals and gemstones to create happiness and healing within his life. These crystals and gemstones are formed under the earth’s surface and contain many minerals. They give out healing energy to the wearer. These crystals are said to synthesize the energy of the sun into healing energy.
There are a variety of healing gemstones and crystals available in the market. All of these stones possess qualities which can be desired by any or all of us. So which gemstone or crystal is just right for us? The answer is not so simple. Go with what you feel. Hold the stone in your hand and let go of all emotions. Probably only one or two emotions will refuse to go away. For you, the stone will represent those emotions. If that is a happy emotion, go with it. Otherwise the stone is not for you. Alternatively, you can also consult an astrologist or a gem therapist to suggest suitable crystals and gemstones for you.
These crystals and gemstones contain many healing properties. They are made out of minerals which have come together under the surface of the earth. This gives them their unique colors and qualities. There are several methods of using the crystals for healing purposes. Some of them are outlined below.
One of the most common methods of using healing crystals is by placing them on the affected parts of the body. These can be your seven chakras, or just a particular body part. The therapist will use stones that are suited for your body type, and depending on the chakras that are needed to be activated or unblocked.
Another very common method is wearing the crystal. If long term healing or benefit is desired from a particular crystal, then most people prefer to wear the gemstone in a pendant or in a ring.
Another method of healing with crystals is making elixirs from them. This is a fairly simple procedure where you place your chosen crystal in glass bowl of pure spring water and leave it in the sunlight for 12 hours. This water can then be bottled (preferably in a dark glass bottle with an air tight stopper) and can be used for a week. If you want to use the water for a longer time period, you can add 50 percent brandy into it. This elixir can be drunk or added to your bath or used as a spray. However, please study the minerals in a particular crystal before drinking its elixir. Some gemstones and crystals might not be suitable for making elixirs. Either the crystal might be water-soluble or poisonous.
A useful method of healing with crystals is putting the crystal in your bath water. You can also add to the healing environment by burning incense or scented candles and bathe in this relaxing environment. This can be quite a rejuvenating experience.
It has been mentioned before that all crystals have healing properties. You have to find one that suits you the best. You can do that by keeping the crystal with you for a few days and observing the effect. If it does nothing for you, you can ignore it. If it creates a bad feeling, discard it. If you feel good with it, and you notice benefits, then hang on to it.
Cleansing the crystals is also equally important. You can place them in the sunlight or the moonlight for 12 hours after washing them thoroughly under running water. Take care, that water soluble crystals will dissolve by frequent washing.
Here is a list of a few healing properties of crystals and gemstones :
Amber: Draws off negative energy, cleanses the aura.
Amethyst: Heals and protects the aura, draws divine energy, treatment for acne and arthritis.
Tourmaline: Provides a psychic shield, releases toxins.
Labradorite: Prevents energy leakage, aligns with spiritual purpose.
Quartz: Cleans, protects and increases aura.
Smoky Quartz: Grounds energy, dissolves negative patterns in aura.
Flourite: Anti-Viral, Dissolves blockages.
Moss Agate: Treats fungal infections.
Citrine: Clears mental confusion, improves concentration.
Carnelian: Re-energizes.
Chrysocolla: Releases unresolved grief.
Aquamarine: Clams stressed or overactive mind.
Yellow Sapphire: Creates abundance.
Turquoise: Harnesses creative energies.
Rose Quartz: Attracts loving energies.
A story among gemstone fanatics is that when a stone has done its ‘thing’ for you, it will find a way to leave you. So if you find yourself losing a stone at some point, remember, that it has done its job and has moved on. If you persist in getting a replacement stone, then it too will move on. I can say this is true with personal experience.
A gemstone is, thus, a gift of Mother Nature which gives you a lot of energies that are loving and healing and help create an aura of happiness and prosperity.
Categories BlogTags crystal healing, divine energy, energy leakage, gem therapist, gemstones and crystals, healing crystal, healing crystals, healing energy, healing properties, healing stone, healing with crystals and gemstones, moss agate, negative energy, rose quartz, smoky quartz, water solubleLeave a comment
Lea Michele wears healing crystal necklace and diamond sparkler …
October 22, 2013 October 22, 2013 by
By
[She]
PUBLISHED:
15:45 EST, 21 October 2013
|
UPDATED:
16:02 EST, 21 October 2013
[She]
18
View
comments
She’s still mourning her boyfriend Cory Monteith, who succumbed to his addictions three months ago.
And an incognito Lea Michele was spotted landing at LAX Sunday night while wearing a healing crystal necklace and a diamond ring.
The 27-year-old actress rocked the same curious sparkler over a year ago, which prompted engagement rumours with her former Glee co-star.
‘[She] still misses him every day’: An incognito Lea Michele was spotted landing at LAX Sunday night while wearing a healing crystal necklace and a diamond ring
The two-time Golden Globe nominee was
casually attired in a wide-brimmed hat, large knit cardigan, blue
skinny jeans, and motorcycle boots.
Lea reportedly ‘still misses him every day.’
‘She talks about Cory all the time,’ a source told People magazine, adding: ‘It’s getting a little easier.’
Incognito: The 27-year-old actress was casually attired in a wide-brimmed hat, large knit cardigan, blue skinny jeans, and motorcycle boots
On hiatus: Lea reprises Rachel Berry on Glee when the fifth season continues November 7 on Fox
‘It’s getting a little easier’: Wearing a diamond sparkler on her left-ring finger appeared to be a tribute to her lost love
Michele, born Sarfati, has taken comfort in her new Pomeranian mix called Pearl as well as her celebrity friends.
The
ombré-haired beauty had spent the weekend in San Francisco with her
former Spring Awakening co-stars Jonathan Groff (whose ex is Zachary
Quinto) and Skylar Astin.
‘So grateful for such amazing friends,’ she tweeted to her 4 million followers.
Happier times: She rocked the same curious sparkler over a year ago, which prompted engagement rumours with her former Glee co-star
And on Friday, Lea joined pals Lance Bass, Jamie-Lynn Sigler, and Hilary Duff for a haunted hayride she dubbed ‘SO scary!’
The
busy starlet just participated in a cover photo shoot for her first
solo album, which will sound more pop/rock than Broadway.
Glee creator Ryan Murphy recently announced that the upcoming sixth season of the Fox musical series will be the final season.
‘So grateful for such amazing friends’: The ombré-haired beauty had spent the weekend in San Francisco with her former Spring Awakening co-stars Jonathan Groff and Skylar Astin
‘SO scary!’ And on Friday, Lea joined pals Lance Bass, Hilary Duff, and Jamie-Lynn Sigler for a celeb-packed haunted hayride
‘Everyone meet my new little love Pearl!’ Michele, born Sarfati, has also taken comfort in the eight-year-old Pomeranian mix she adopted this month
‘I’m so excited for u guys to hear my album!’ The busy starlet just participated in a cover photo shoot for her first solo album, which will sound more pop/rock than Broadway
Michele donned a ‘Finn’ tribute necklace during last week’s episode dedicated to Cory, which drew in 7.4million viewers.
While
Monteith died of a heroin and alcohol overdose in a Vancouver hotel
room, it was not disclosed how exactly his character Finn passed away.
Lea reprises Rachel Berry on Glee when the fifth season continues November 7 on Fox.
And Harmony Books will publish the Emmy nominee’s memoir and advice book – Brunette Ambition – next spring.
Tearful farewell: Michele donned a ‘Finn’ tribute necklace during last week’s episode dedicated to Cory, which drew in 7.4million viewers
‘The show must go… all over the place… or something’: While Monteith died of a heroin and alcohol overdose in a Vancouver hotel room, it was not disclosed how exactly his character Finn passed away
On and off-screen love: She’s still mourning Monteith, who succumbed to his addictions three months ago
Categories About MoldaviteTags amazing friends, cassie carpenter, cory monteith, crystal necklace, entertainment culture, golden globe, healing crystal, healing crystal necklace, hilary duff, human interest, jamie-lynn sigler, jonathan groff, lance bass, lea michele, rachel berry, ryan murphy, san francisco, skylar astin, the emmy, zachary quintoLeave a comment
The Moldavite Picture Book
I have just published my first Moldavite Picture book which is available for download as an ebook from Amazon Kindle.
This book contains about 90 images over 40 Moldavites including some of my special 'Big Girls'.
Sitemap
About Me
Copyright © 2019 · GeneratePress