morphine abuse by drug rehab america.net 2
Navigate
Home
Kirstie Alley
Our 30th Anniversary
Never Turning Back
Narconon Endorsements
Drug Rehab Research
Drug Residual Reduction
Cocaine Metabolites
Scientific Research
Summary Data
AAEM Presentation
Facts About Narconon
Narconon Methodology
Narconon is Non Profit
Narconon Effectivness
Narconon Drug Education
Facts About Drugs
FAQ About Ambien
FAQ About Ativan
FAQ About Cocaine
FAQ About Codeine
FAQ About Crack
FAQ About Darvocet
FAQ About Dexedrine
FAQ About Demerol
FAQ About Dilaudid
FAQ About Ecstasy
FAQ About GHB
FAQ About Heroin
FAQ About Hydrocodone
FAQ About Ketamine
FAQ About Lortab
FAQ About LSD
FAQ About Marijuana
FAQ About Morphine
FAQ About Meth
FAQ About Methadone
FAQ About Opiates
FAQ About Opium
FAQ About Oxycontin
FAQ About Percocet
FAQ About Percodan
FAQ About Ritalin
FAQ About Rohypnol
FAQ About Ultram
FAQ About Valium
FAQ About Vicodin
FAQ About Xanax
Resources
Print this article
Send this article to a friend
Add to Favorites
FAQ About Morphine
Q) What is Morphine?
A) Morphine is a narcotic analgesic. Morphine was first isolated from opium in 1805 by a German pharmacist, Wilhelm Sertürner. Sertürner described it as the Principium Somniferum. He named it morphium - after Morpheus, the Greek god of dreams. Today morphine is isolated from opium in substantially larger quantities - over 1000 tons per year - although most commercial opium is converted into codeine by methylation. On the illicit market, opium gum is filtered into morphine base and then synthesized into heroin.
Q) How is Morphine used?
A) Morphine can be taken orally in tablet form, and can also injected subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously; the last is the route preferred by those who are dependent on morphine.
Q) What are the side effects of Morphine?
A)
anxiety
involuntary movement of the eyeball
blurred vision / double vision
constipation
"pinpoint" pupils chills
depressed or irritable mood
itching cramps
dizziness
rash diarrhea
drowsiness
rigid muscles inability to urinate
exaggerated sense of well-being
seizure dreams
light - headedness
swelling due to fluid retention dry mouth
nausea
tingling or pins and needles facial flushing
sedation
tremor fainting / faintness
sweating
uncoordinated muscle movements floating feeling
vomiting
weakness hallucinations
agitation
abdominal pain headache
allergic reaction
abnormal thinking high/low blood pressure
appetite loss
accidental injury hives
apprehension
memory loss insomnia
Q) What are the symptoms of Overdose?
A)
cold clammy skin
flaccid muscles
fluid in the lungs
lowered blood pressure
"pinpoint" or dilated pupils
sleepiness
stupor
coma
slowed breathing
slow pulse rate
Q) What is Morphine addiction?
A) Morphine is highly addictive. Tolerance (the need for higher and higher doses to maintain the same effect) and physical and psychological dependence develop quickly. Withdrawal from morphine causes nausea, tearing, yawning, chills, and sweating lasting up to three days. Morphine crosses the placental barrier, and babies born to morphine-using mothers go through withdrawal.
Addictive drugs activate the brain’s reward systems. The promise of reward is very intense, causing the individual to crave the drug and to focus his or her activities around taking the drug. The ability of addictive drugs to strongly activate brain reward mechanisms and their ability to chemically alter the normal functioning of these systems can produce an addiction. Drugs also reduce a person’s level of consciousness, harming the ability to think or be fully aware of present surroundings.
Q) What are possible drug interactions when using Morphine?
A)
Alcohol
Certain analgesics such as Talwin, Nubain, Stadol, and Buprenex
Drugs that control vomiting, such as Compazine and Tigan
Drugs classified as MAO inhibitors, such as the antidepressants Nardil and Parnate
Major tranquilizers such as Thorazine and Haldol
Muscle relaxants such as Flexeril and Valium
Sedatives such as Dalmane and Halcion
Tranquilizers such as Librium and Xanax
Water pills such as Diuril and Lasix
If you have a problem with morphine addiction call Narconon Southern California drug rehab center, we can help 1800 US NO DRUGS
top of page
comment corner
drug rehabilitation saving taxpayers
California taxpayers are saving more money than expected due to ...
Study: Marijuana Causes Lung Damage
New research finds that smoking three or four marijuana cigarettes ...
Thanks to Online Pharmacies, Addiction Can Be Just a Click Away
WASHINGTON -- Kelly Knable, a 34-year-old mother of three from ...
Balancing pain and drug addiction
Over the past two decades, two conflicting medical ideas have ...
Clean break
...
State officials create prescription drug abuse task force
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- State officials on Friday announced the creation ...
Florida system often fails to catch Medicaid abuse at source
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. - (KRT) - The victim's skin was ...
Marijuana's rising threat: For more kids, use turns into addiction
John Brown experimented with marijuana at age 10, and it ...
Student gets state prison term for selling marijuana
EASTON -- David Messina had his whole life ahead of ...
Man charged in cocaine case forfeits $585,000
An Iowa truck driver arrested by Kentucky Vehicle Enforcement officers ...
Cocaine Curtails Body's Ability to Cool Off
In addition to triggering life-threatening cardiovascular episodes, cocaine can be ...
Science for Cops
I admit it: I'm a Law & Order fan. ...
New Gene Therapy Could Help Quell Alcoholic Cravings
One prevailing view of addiction holds that alcohol and other ...
One Dose of Cocaine Primes the Brain for Addiction
It isn't a myth: one dose of cocaine is all ...
Marijuana Firmly Linked to Infertility
Scientists from the University of Buffalo have smoked out what ...
Moderate Alcohol Consumption Clouds Brain's Ability to Detect Mistakes
It's common knowledge that a brain on booze doesn't function ...
Narconon Pictures