After Tooth Extraction Prescott AZ
Skip to main content
928-778-5527
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
Scheduling
First Visit
Patient Registration
Insurance
Financial Policy
Online Videos
Privacy Policy
Procedures
Dental Implants
Replacing Missing Teeth
Overview of Implant Placement
Missing All Upper or Lower Teeth
Bone Grafting for Implants
Implant Supported Overdenture
After Implant Placement
Cost of Dental Implants
Wisdom Teeth
Impacted Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Teeth Removal
After Extraction of Wisdom Teeth
Tooth Extractions
Impacted Canines
Oral Pathology
Pre-Prosthetic Surgery
Bone Grafting
Jaw Bone Health
Jaw Bone Loss and Deterioration
About Bone Grafting
Ridge Augmentation
Sinus Lift
Nerve Repositioning
Socket Preservation
Facial Trauma
TMJ Disorders
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implant Surgery
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Meet Dr. Rethman
Kevin V. Rethman, DDS
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Links of Interest
Contact Us
Contact Information / Office Map
Patient Satisfaction Survey
Patient Reviews/Testimonials
Prescott, AZ
Kevin V. Rethman, DDS, PLLC
Serving Prescott & Surrounding Areasfor 30 years
AAOMS Board CertifiedFellow since 1987
Experience...and Expertise
After Tooth Extraction
After tooth extraction, it’s important for a blood clot to form to stop the bleeding and begin the healing process. Bite down firmly on a gauze pad for 30-45 minutes immediately after the appointment. If the bleeding or oozing still persists, place another gauze pad and bite firmly for another 30 minutes. You may have to do this several times to stanch the flow of blood. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened black tea bag for thirty minutes. The tannic acid in the black tea helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. If bleeding continues, please call our office for further instructions.
After the blood clot forms it is important to not disturb or dislodge the clot. Do not rinse vigorously, suck on straws, smoke, drink alcohol or brush teeth next to the extraction site for 72 hours. These activities may dislodge or dissolve the clot and hinder the healing process. Limit vigorous exercise for the next 24 hours, as this increases blood pressure and may cause more bleeding from the extraction site.
After the tooth is extracted you may feel some pain and experience some swelling. An ice pack or an unopened bag of frozen peas or corn applied to the area will keep swelling to a minimum. Take pain medications as prescribed. The swelling usually subsides after 48 hours.
Use pain medication as directed. Call our office if the medication doesn’t seem to be working. If antibiotics are prescribed, continue to take them for the indicated length of time even if signs and symptoms of infection are gone. Drink lots of fluids and eat nutritious, soft food on the day of the extraction. You can eat normally as soon as you are comfortable.
It is important to resume your normal dental routine after 24 hours. This should include brushing and flossing your teeth at least once a day. This will speed healing and help keep your mouth fresh and clean. After a few days you should feel fine and can resume your normal activities.
If any problems should arise after surgery or if you have any questions or concerns, please call our office at Prescott Oral & Implant Surgery Phone Number 928-778-5527 and you will have the option to connect to our 24/7 answering service who will then contact Dr. Rethman.
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
Dental Implant Surgery
Wisdom Tooth Removal
Exposure of an Impacted Tooth
Extractions
Multiple Extractions
Home
Patient Information
Procedures
Surgical Instructions
Meet Dr. Rethman
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Patient Satisfaction Survey
Patient Reviews/Testimonials
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Serving the following
Prescott Valley AZ • Chino Valley AZ • Dewey AZ • Humboldt AZ • Sedona AZ
Cottonwood AZ • Camp Verde AZ • Flagstaff AZ
Prescott Oral & Implant Surgery • Address: 1747 Willow Creek Road Prescott AZ 86301 • Phone: Prescott Oral & Implant Surgery Phone Number 928-778-5527 • Fax: 928-778-1953
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2019 • Non-Discrimination Notice
Scroll to the top