best eye specialist in Kolkata Archives - Disha Eye Care
Skip to content
Menu
Home
About
Services
Eye Bank
For Patients
Our Hospitals
Contact Us
Blog
Tag: best eye specialist in Kolkata
Posted on April 9, 2019 April 9, 2019
What are the Differences Between eye Screening and a Comprehensive Eye Examination?
It goes without saying that the eyes are a complex organ, and so are the complications associated with them. Therefore, confirming the presence of different eye complications requires different types of diagnostic procedures.
Consult with the best eye doctors in Kolkata to keep your eyes healthy
Get you eyes checked at Disha Eye Hospitals. We have some of the best eye specialists in Kolkata . They can detect the presence of problems in your eyes with the advanced technology-led diagnostic procedures. They specialise in the diagnosis and treatment of various eye diseases. An early diagnosis can reduce the risk of worsening of your eye complication. Book your appointment with one of our eye specialists online at http://www.dishaeye.org/organic/.
When visiting an eye doctor, many are confused between eye screening and comprehensive eye examination. If you too are confused, these key differences between the two should give you a clear picture:
1) Eye screening:–
Eye screening (also known as eye test) is a basic, brief eye examination. Eye screening is primarily done in order to look for a particular eye problem. Eye doctors perform eye screening to detect the presence of common vision problems (refractive errors), including Hyperopia (farsightedness), Myopia (nearsightedness), and Astigmatism.
After detecting the presence of a particular vision problem, eye doctors refer patients to eye care specialists (ophthalmologists) for in-depth diagnosis and treatment. In children, eye screening is done to look for two common childhood eye conditions, Strabismus and Amblyopia (aka Lazy Eye). It’s a must to take children for eye screening every year.
2) Comprehensive eye examination:-
A comprehensive eye examination can be classified as a detailed eye exam. It is done to get a full evaluation of your vision and overall eye health. A comprehensive eye examination can last up to an hour or more as there are a number of eye tests that are performed. These include:
Visual acuity test
Ophthalmologists usually perform a visual acuity test as the first test during a comprehensive eye examination. Visual acuity test involves measuring the sharpness of the vision through an eye chart. Ophthalmologists measure distant and near vision by changing the distance of the eye chart.
Refraction test:-
After detecting the refraction error (if there’s any), the ophthalmologist will perform a refraction test in order to accurately determine the eyeglass prescription. Ophthalmologists use an instrument called a phoropter to determine the exact lens power as per the level of refraction error. The ophthalmologist depends upon the feedback of the patient in order to fine-tune the lens power.
Slit lamp exam:-
Slit lamp exam is one of the important eye tests performed during a comprehensive eye exam. It is done to detect the presence of complex and serious eye complications such as Diabetic Retinopathy, Corneal Ulcers, Cataracts, Glaucoma, and Macular Degeneration. The eye test involves examining different parts of the eyes under high magnification using an upright microscope. An ophthalmologist checks the lens, conjunctiva, cornea, and iris.
Eye movement test:-
Eye movement test, as the name suggests, is done to determine the coordination of both eyes. An ophthalmologist instructs patients to follow a particular object, like a light source, to determine how well can both eyes follow. Improper eye movement can indicate the presence of strabismus; improper eye movement also increases the risk of developing double vision.
Pupil dilation test:-
In order to get a better diagnosis of some eye complications like Diabetic Retinopathy, ophthalmologists dilate the pupils in order to get a better view of the affected eye’s internal structures. Ophthalmologists commonly use a dilating eye drop. The eye doctor will shine a bright light into the dilated pupil to see the eyes’ internal structures more clearly.
We, at Disha Eye Hospitals, are committed to preserving your eyesight. From diagnosis to treatment, our best retina specialists in Kolkata look forward to serving your retinal health care needs.
Posted on March 20, 2019
What Is Corneal Laceration? And its Symptoms
What Is Corneal Laceration? And its Symptoms
Corneas are our front window to the world of vision. Any damage to them can be not just uncomfortable but can also cause loss of vision, if left untreated for long. A corneal laceration is one such issue that should not be taken lightly. Corneal laceration occurs when something hits the eye with a significant force like a ball or metallic rod, causing a cut on the cornea. Corneal lacerations are typically caused by tree branches, metallic objects or some sharp objects. One can prevent such accidents by wearing protective eyewear, especially while working in the garden or playing a sport.
How is corneal laceration different from corneal abrasion?
Though corneal abrasion and corneal laceration sound similar, on a closer look you will find that the two are different. Corneal abrasions are usually caused by minor accidents like scratches caused by fingernails or contact lenses or when foreign objects like dirt, sand, or sawdust get stuck in your eyes. If you rub your eyes too vigorously, you may cause corneal abrasions. However, a corneal laceration is an actual cut and not just a scratch on the cornea. It is deeper than corneal abrasion and requires immediate medical attention.
Symptoms of corneal laceration:-
You will feel severe pain and will have a sensation that something is in your eyes
The injury will make your eyes teary
You may also find notice blood in the eye. This depends upon the nature of the injury
You may suddenly experience blurred vision or decreased vision
You may also find natural or artificial light too harsh
Diagnosis:-
If you think you have symptoms of a corneal laceration, then you must see an ophthalmologist on an urgent basis. After a complete eye examination, your ophthalmologist can tell you the severity of the injury. For a complete eye examination, your ophthalmologist may put numbing eye drops so that your eyes can remain open during the examination. Depending upon whether it’s a partial thickness or full thickness laceration, the doctor will suggest the course of action.
Book appointment online with the best eye doctors in Kolkata
If you notice any symptoms of corneal laceration, consult the best eye doctor in Kolkata at Disha Eye Hospitals. We are committed to providing right eye care solutions at an affordable cost. To book an appointment online with the best eye doctors in Kolkata, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/contact-us. You can also book an appointment through WhatsApp (9433311111).
What should you do?
If you think you have corneal laceration, you must immediately seek medical help. A corneal laceration is a serious injury that should not be ignored as it can lead to loss of vision. However, by the time you reach the eye hospital make sure you don’t aggravate your injury:
Cover your eyes with an eye shield or a pair of sunglasses
Do not rinse your eyes with water. The foreign object that may be in your eyes may go further, causing more damage
If you think something is stuck in your eyes, do not try to remove it on your own
Do not apply pressure on your eyes with your hands as this can make the injury worse
Don’t take any painkillers such as ibuprofen, aspirin or other non-steroidal drugs. These medicines cause the blood to thin and may increase your bleeding.
See an eye doctor at the earliest.
Treatment:-
Usually, surgery is done to treat a corneal laceration. The doctor will close the cut where the object struck and remove any foreign object that is still stuck in the eye. The doctor may also recommend some medications and some eye drops to ensure that there’s no infection. You may be advised to wear a patch for a few days. If your injury is severe then the doctor may recommend several surgeries.
Followup:-
Often a corneal laceration puts you at a higher risk of developing other eye complications like retinal detachment and thus it’s very crucial that you follow up with your eye doctor.
Posted on March 19, 2019 April 3, 2019
Condition Called Watery Eyes. Causes & When to See a Doctor
If your eyes are watering for reasons other than an emotional film, then do not to ignore this condition. There can be several possible reasons for eyes to water. Eyes produce tears to keep them lubricated. However, if your eyes are constantly watering, it can not just be irritating and troublesome, but it can also be a sign of an underlying eye condition or disease. Visiting a doctor is the best way to know what is causing your eyes to produce excessive tears.
Get your eyes checked — Book an appointment online
There could be several reasons for eyes to water and several eye conditions have similar symptoms. The best to figure out what is causing your eyes to water is the diagnosis. Consult best eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospitals, one of the top eye hospitals in Kolkata. Our eye specialists help you figure out what’s causing excess tears and the best ways to treat them. To book an appointment online, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/contact-us. You can also book an appointment through WhatsApp (9433311111).
Here are a few eye conditions that cause your eyes to water:
1. Allergies: A lot of people are allergic to pollen, pet dander, and fumes. These allergens can cause your eyes to turn red, itchy, and make them watery. The best way to avoid this problem is to avoid allergens. However, if you are exposed to one, then you must see an eye specialist in Kolkata who can suggest you the over-the-counter medications to relieve you of watery eyes.
2. Pink eye/conjunctivitis: Conjunctivitis is an inflammatory condition that makes the eyes look reddish pink. Though it is highly contagious, it is rarely dangerous. Along with redness in the eye, the condition makes the eyes water; and inner eyelids may appear to be red and your vision may be blurry. Thick yellow mucus may also accumulate around the eyelashes. Though the condition runs its course, an eye doctor may prescribe you some eye drops and medications to relieve you of some pain and prevent the spread of infection.
3. Blocked tear ducts: Your eyes have ducts that help in draining out the tears. It is like eyes have very own drainage system. However, when these ducts are blocked, your eyes get watery, causing irritation. Along with water, your eyes may also release some mucus. You may also experience blurred vision. An eye doctor may recommend antibiotic teardrop or ointment to clean your tear ducts. In serious cases, surgery is suggested. The doctor will flush the duct with saline and use tiny tubes to open up blockages.
4. Dry eye syndrome: It may sound strange but dry eye syndrome does cause eyes to water. Dry eye syndrome prompts your eyes to produce tears. This overwhelms the eye’s natural drainage system, forcing it to produce excessive tears, making your eyes watery. Your eye doctor can recommend you over-the-counter medications to lubricate your eyes. By reducing your screen time, you can let your eyes naturally lubricate themselves. Besides, screen time, age is another factor that can lead to dry eye syndrome.
5. Problem with your eyelids: Your eyelids are part of your eyes’ drainage system and whenever you blink it helps to moisten your eyes. This process helps draining out the debris and mucus, However, sometimes eyelids grow inwards. This causes them to brush against your eyes, leading to watery eyes. In some cases, your doctor may just recommend medications and in some cases, minor surgery can be performed to fix ingrown eyelids.
Book an appointment at Disha Eye Hospitals — One of the top eye hospitals in Kolkata, we take care of all sorts of eye conditions and diseases. To know more about us, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/. We are committed to providing quality eye treatment at affordable prices.
Posted on March 15, 2019 April 3, 2019
Common Retinal Diseases and Their Symptoms
Mr. Ghosh of Kolkata was seeing floating specks. He thought this will go away on its own but in a few weeks, the number of black spots increased. Eventually, he developed a cloudy area is his vision field. On his family’s insistence, he went to see an ophthalmologist. After consulting the doctor, he was diagnosed with Diabetic Retinopathy. He realised the gravity of the situation. If he hadn’t gone to the doctor for long, he would have lost his vision.
There are several types of retinal diseases and they can be caused due to ageing, diabetes or other health factors. Usually, most of the retinal diseases show visual symptoms. The retina is the layer of tissue that helps in sending images to your brain. Anything that affects your retina will affect your vision.
If left unattended for long, a retinal disease can lead to loss of vision. How would you know that you have a retinal disease? An eye specialist can do the diagnosis and look for signs of retinal disorders.
Looking for the best eye specialists in Kolkata?
If you are looking for one of the best eye specialists in Kolkata, then visit Disha Eye Hospitals. We, at Disha Eye Hospitals, are committed to providing quality care at affordable cost. We have the best retina specialists in Kolkata who can diagnose retinal and vitreous diseases through a comprehensive eye examination. If you want to know more about retinal disorders, or if you would like to set up an eye exam, book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/contact-us. You can also book an appointment through WhatsApp (9433311111).
Here are common retinal diseases and their symptoms:
1. Floaters: If you notice spots, grey specks or cobwebs in your vision, then you have eye floaters. As we age, jelly-like substance in eyes become liquid and this casts a shadow on the retina. However, floaters can also be caused if the retina is torn. If the torn retina is not fixed, this can lead to retinal detachment. An ophthalmologist may suggest surgery to make the spots less noticeable. However, surgery can remove some of the floaters but not all.
Symptoms:
Dark grey specks or transparent strings may appear in the vision
Spots float ie when you move your eyes, the spots too move quickly
Spots become noticeable when you look at plain backgrounds like a white wall or the sky
2. Macular degeneration: As you age, the centre of your retina starts to deteriorate, this affects your central vision, making it difficult for you to see things in a straight line. There’s no cure for macular degeneration but there are options to slow down its progression. Early diagnosis of macular degeneration can help minimise vision loss.
Symptoms:
Trouble in identifying faces
Straight lines may appear distorted
Need for bright light for doing daily activities
Blurry vision
3. Diabetic retinopathy: Diabetes often causes tiny blood vessels to swell up. These blood vessels can burst and leak fluid, distorting or blurring vision. Depending upon the type of diabetes you have, new blood vessels may grow, furthering causing more damage to the retina. With a comprehensive dilated eye test, an ophthalmologist will be able to diagnose the disease. If you have diabetes, then you should go for a comprehensive test every year. You can prevent diabetic retinopathy from getting worse by keeping your blood pressure and diabetes under control. An eye doctor will suggest a laser surgery that will destroy leaking blood vessels.
Symptoms:
You will find it difficult to see while driving and reading
Difficulty in identifying colours
Vision may seem blurred
Black spots may appear
4. Retinal detachment: Retinal detachment happens when the retina separates from the back of your eyes, this can cause loss of vision either partially or fully. It is an emergency situation that requires you to immediately consult an eye specialist. Though retinal detachment is painless, there can some warning signs before the disease occurs or advances. Surgery is usually necessary to repair the detached retina. Retinal detachment can be caused by an inflammatory disorder or cancer behind your retina.
Symptoms:-
Blurred vision
Partial vision loss, especially peripheral vision
Sudden appearance of floaters or flashes
If you are in Kolkata and experience eye problem, visit Disha Eye Hospitals – the best eye care hospital in Kolkata. To know more about us, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/.
Posted on January 23, 2019
Top Causes of Eye Pain
Experiencing pain in the eyes, at times, is common for everybody. However, if the pain persists, it is signalling trouble. Apart from physical eye injuries such as black eye (eye swelling) and corneal abrasion, there are tons of eye complications that have eye pain as a symptom.
If you are experiencing discomfort in your eyes, do not ignore it and instead seek medical help. You can consult with one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, a renowned eye hospital in West Bengal. Book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
Here are some of the eye complications that cause eye pain:
1) Dry eyes: Dry eyes is one of the most common causes of eye pain. The eye condition occurs when there’s a lack of sufficient or quality lubrication in the eyes due to decreased tear production. In some people, the condition occurs when there’s an imbalance in the tear makeup or increased tear evaporation.
Apart from eye pain, foreign sensation in the eyes, blurred vision and eye tiredness are some of the other symptoms of dry eyes. Some of the common risk factors of the eye complication include lack of sufficient nutrition in diet, wearing contact lenses, using electronic gadgets (phone, laptops, TVs) for long periods, and aging. Eye drops and nutritional supplements are two common treatment options for dry eyes.
2) Glaucoma: Glaucoma is a serious eye complication that causes eye pain as one of its symptoms. Glaucoma occurs when the pressure in the eye increases due to the build-up of fluid in the anterior chamber. If left uncontrolled, the increased eye pressure can cause damage to the optic nerve. This, in turn, can lead to loss of vision. Some of the biggest risk factors of Glaucoma include diabetes, trauma to the eyes, being at the age of 40 or older, and family history of the eye complication. The two common treatment options, eye drops and surgery, are aimed at lowering eye pressure.
3) Abrasions: Accidental injuries to the eyes also cause eye pain; abrasions caused by foreign objects are the most common types of eye injuries. Eye makeup applicators, contact lenses, fingernails, jagged objects/toys, and particles from the wind are the common factors that cause abrasion to the cornea. Although the cornea can heal itself, it is crucial to seek professional treatment to lower the risk of eye infections. It is not possible to entirely prevent corneal abrasion. However, you can lower the risks by taking measures such as wearing protective eyewear when working in a workshop and playing outdoor sports.
4) Endophthalmitis: Endophthalmitis is a severe inflammation inside the eyes caused by an infection. There are two types of endophthalmitis, exogenous endophthalmitis, and endogenous endophthalmitis. Exogenous endophthalmitis results when cuts to the eye from an external source cause infection. On the other hand, endogenous endophthalmitis occurs when infection from another part of the body travels to the eyes. Some of the common symptoms of eye complication include eye pain, eye redness, & swollen eyelids.
5) Uveitis: Uveitis occurs when there’s inflammation in the pigmented lining of the eye. The inflammation can result from an autoimmune disorder, an injury, or an infection. Eye pain, loss of vision, and eye redness are some of the common symptoms of the eye complication. If left untreated, Uveitis can cause permanent damage to the eyes and lead to vision impairment. Eye drops, drugs, and surgery are three treatment options for Uveitis.
Maintain good eye health with Disha Eye Hospital
We are committed to ensuring good eye health for everybody through our quality and affordable eye care services. We offer treatment for Glaucoma, Cataracts, Uveitis, and Diabetic retinopathy in Kolkata.
Posted on January 23, 2019
Do Carrots Really Improve Eyesight?
We have been told since childhood that eating carrots improves our vision. But is it true that eating the root vegetable will do wonders to our eyes?
The notion that eating carrots improve vision dates back to World War II when the British Air Force gunned down German aircraft in the dead of night. It is believed that the British Air Force popularised the carrot myth to keep its radar technology a secret.
1. Carrots are good for the eyes: There’s no doubt that carrots are indeed good for the eyes as it contains beta carotene. The body uses beta carotene to make Vitamin A which are antioxidant compounds essential to good vision. According to the World Health Organisation, Vitamin A deficiency is one of the most common causes of preventable blindness in children.
2. Eating carrots alone will not help you maintain overall good eye health: Although carrots are a rich source of beta carotene, relying only on the root vegetable will not help you maintain good overall eye health. A randomised trial of US physicians found out that long-term intake of beta carotene did not decrease or increase the risk of Age-related Macular Degeneration.
3. Combine carrots with other nutritional vegetables and fruits in your diet: The best way to ensure good eye health for yourself and your loved ones is to eat a diet that contains all the essential nutrients. Make sure to include fresh vegetables, fruits, farm-fresh eggs, nuts, and lean fish and meat in your diet.
4. Here are some of the food items, apart from carrots, that are beneficial for the eyes:
●Almonds: Almonds are a rich source of Vitamin E which maintains eye tissue health. Apart from being a great source of snack, almonds are also a nutritional addition to breakfast cereal and salads. Soak a handful of almonds in water overnight and consume them in the morning the way you want to.
●Salmon: Salmon is a storehouse of omega-3 fatty acids, or better known as healthy fats. Omega-3 fatty acids contribute to vision development. To get the most out of these healthy fats, include salmon in your meal plan for 2 to 3 days a week.
●Eggs: Eggs are another rich source of Vitamin A; it also contains zinc, zeaxanthin, and lutein, all of which improve eye health. The best part? Eggs are a versatile food item; you can eat them for your breakfast and in your lunch and dinner.
●Oranges: Oranges are loaded with Vitamin C which promotes eye blood vessel health. Eat oranges as snacks, or juice them for breakfast. Adding them to your fruit salad is also a great option.
Kale: Kale is hailed as one of the best eye superfoods. The carotenoids, lutein, and zeaxanthin, found in kale promote retina health and vision. You can prepare kale as a side dish or as snack chips.
See through the myth and get your eyes checked every year
Every step you take to improve your eye health goes a long way in maintaining proper vision in the long run. If you notice any changes in your vision and overall eye health, do not neglect it as it can be symptoms of serious eye complications.
Consult with one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, one of the best eye hospitals in West Bengal. We provide high-quality and affordable treatment for serious eye complications, including Cataracts, Glaucoma, Corneal diseases, Squint, Uveitis, and Diabetic Retinopathy in Kolkata.
We have a team of experienced eye specialists who are well-versed with leading medical tools and technology. Book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
Posted on January 21, 2019 February 11, 2019
Eye Diseases Associated with Smoking
If you smoke, you’re well acquainted with the guilty pleasure of lighting up another cigarette, despite having smoked one a couple of minutes before. But do you know the damage the smoke entering inside your lungs is causing?
Apart from leading to a number of health complications such as lung cancer, constricted blood vessels, strokes, loss of appetite, infertility, etc, smoking also increases the risk of a number of eye diseases which can lead to blindness.
Book eye check-up online:
Quitting smoking is the best step you can take to reduce the damage the chemicals in cigarette smoke has already done. To further lower the risks of eye complications, make sure to visit an eye doctor every year. Get your eye health diagnosed from one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, one of the top eye hospitals in Kolkata. Book your appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
Here are some of the serious eye diseases associated with smoking:
1.Cataracts: Cataract is one of the most common eye diseases linked to regular smoking. The eye complication occurs when the eye lenses start breaking down and form clumps. Over time, the clumps cloud the lens and obstruct light. This, in turn, leads to vision loss which gradually worsens as the clumps become denser. Smoking causes heavy metals like cadmium to accumulate in the lens and contribute to cataract formation. Also, regular smoking can alter the cells in the eye lenses through oxidation.
2.Dry Eyes: People who smoke regularly are at higher risk of developing dry eyes than those who don’t smoke. Also, cigarette smoke is an eye irritant; it worsens dry eyes in smokers as well as in non-smokers. Dry eyes occur when either the tear glands cannot produce sufficient/quality tears for lubrication or when the produced tears get evaporated quickly.
3.Diabetic Retinopathy: Diabetic Retinopathy occurs when the blood vessels of the retina get damaged and lead to vision loss. Regular smoking causes blood sugar levels to spike up, especially in people with diabetes. As a result, the increased blood sugar levels cause more damage to the blood vessels and worsen Diabetic Retinopathy. People who have been recently diagnosed with diabetes stand at an increased risk of Diabetic Retinopathy.
4.Uveitis: The onset of Uveitis is commonly linked to regular smoking. The eye complication occurs when the eye’s middle layer, the uvea, gets inflamed. If left untreated, the eye complication can damage the vital structures of the eyes, including the retina and the iris. Smoking speeds up the development of Uveitis. As such, regular smokers stand at an increased risk of the complication than non-smokers.
5.Macular Degeneration: Macular Degeneration is one of the leading causes of central vision loss. The eye complication is more common in smokers than in non-smokers. Macular Degeneration occurs when the macula (a part of the retina) is damaged. Smoking is one of the biggest risk factors of Macular Degeneration.
6.Tips to quit smoking:
Most people struggle to let go of the habit of smoking. However, making small changes to your lifestyle can go a long way in lowering the temptation to light one up. Here are some tips to help you quit the habit:
●Fight your cravings:
Like every other smoker, you may get cravings to smoke at specific times in a day. For eg, most smokers get a strong craving to light one up after a meal. When you get such cravings, try to fight them by eating a healthy snack, drinking water, and talking with somebody.
●Take help:
Do whatever it takes to get help in quitting the habit. Taking therapies and using mobile apps that help kick the butt is a good option.
●Hang out with non-smokers often:
You may tend to smoke frequently when spending time with other smokers. One simple and effective way to reduce smoking and quit eventually is to hang out more with non-smokers.
We at Disha Eye Hospital are committed to providing affordable eye care treatment so that people can have a healthy vision. Our services include LASIK, refractive surgery, cataract, diabetic retinopathy, and glaucoma. To know more about our services, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/.
Posted on January 21, 2019
Difference Between Cataracts and Glaucoma
Cataracts and Glaucoma are two of the most serious eye complications. Both the degenerative eye diseases occur as the natural part of the aging process and cause vision impairment. However, the eye diseases have stark differences in between them.
Let’s uncover the key differences between these two serious eye complications to get a clear picture:
1) Symptoms: While symptoms including eye pain and vision blurriness are common in both eye complications, the other symptoms that are different:
Cataracts:
Double vision in the single eye
Yellowing of colours
Clouded vision
Appearance of cloudy formation on eyes’ lens area
Lowered vision in dimly lit areas
Glaucoma:
Seeing coloured rings around lights
Sudden disturbances in vision
Eye redness
Nausea
Vomiting
Book an eye test online:
If you are experiencing any of these symptoms, make sure to seek medical advice. We, at Disha Eye Hospital, have a team of some of the best eye specialists in Kolkata. Book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment and get a proper diagnosis of your eye health.
2) Causes:-
The way Cataracts and Glaucoma cause vision loss are completely different from each other, and so are the factors that cause them.
Cataracts: The eye complication occurs when the eye lenses become stiffer, start breaking down, and form clumps as you age. As the eye disease progresses, the clumps become denser and start clouding the lens. This, in turn, obstructs light to completely pass through and reach the retina which results in blurred vision. Cataracts can either develop in one eye or both eyes. In cases where cataracts form in both eyes, the clouding of the lens is not even.
Glaucoma: Glaucoma occurs when the intraocular pressure (IOP) increases above normal levels and damages the optic nerve. The IOP increases when the fluid (aqueous humour) in the front of the eye builds up when it is not drained as properly as it should.
As the IOP increases with time, more damage is done to the optic nerve, which, in turn, leads to gradual vision impairment.
3) Vision loss restoration:-
As discussed above, both the eye diseases cause vision loss. However, vision loss can be restored and reversed only in Cataracts and not in Glaucoma.
Cataract: Cataract surgery, the go-to treatment option for cataracts, involves replacing the clouded lens with an artificial lens. Before the surgery, the doctor takes into account the refractive error of the patient to choose an artificial lens accordingly to correct the vision.
Glaucoma: The goal of treatment options for Glaucoma, including eye drops and surgery, is to reduce and stop vision loss from worsening by lowering IOP. Depending on the severity of your Glaucoma, the eye doctor may start treatment by prescribing eye drops or schedule a surgery.
4) Prevention
Both Cataracts and Glaucoma cannot be entirely prevented. However, you can take certain steps to lower the risks. Some of these include:
A healthy and balanced diet:
Eating healthily is key to maintaining good eye health and lowering the risk of complications. Add green vegetables, colourful fruits, fresh eggs, and lean fish and meat to your diet to make sure you get proper nutrition intake.
Regular exercise:
Exercising regularly helps improve blood circulation in the eyes. Another key benefit of regular exercise is it helps you maintain healthy body weight. Being overweight and obese increases the risk of diabetes which, in turn, can cause a vision-threatening eye disease known as Diabetic Retinopathy.
Consult best retina specialists in Kolkata
If you are suffering from diabetes, you are at an increased risk of Diabetic Retinopathy. Our team of some of the best retina specialists in Kolkata can guide you on taking important steps to lower the risk.
Posted on December 26, 2018 December 26, 2018
Top Reasons for Eye Irritation
Do you get a feeling that something’s stuck in your eyes? Are your eyes red and irritated? Are you wondering what’s bothering you? Eye irritation, one of the most common eye-related complications, can occur for many reasons. It is also a common symptom for a host of eye diseases and conditions. It can also result from minor to severe eye injuries.
Consult best eye hospital in West Bengal
If you are experiencing eye irritation, it’s important to consult an eye doctor. You can get a proper diagnosis of your eye-related symptoms from one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, a leading eye hospital in West Bengal. Book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
Here, we have shared the top reasons for eye irritation:
1. Dry Eyes:-
Dry eyes is one of the most common eye conditions with eye irritation as a primary symptom. The condition occurs when the tear glands aren’t able to either produce a sufficient amount of tears or quality tears.
Dry eyes is more common in older adults. Apart from irritation, other symptoms of dry eyes include itchiness, blurred vision, red eyes, fatigues eyes, and soreness.
2. Conjunctivitis:-
Eye irritation is also commonly associated with conjunctivitis, an eye condition in which a thin membrane covering the white part of the eyeball gets infected. Some of the common factors associated with the onset of the eye condition include reaction to eye drops and exposure to irritants such as pool chlorine and smoke.
Sensitivity to light, blurred vision, itchiness, excess tearing, constant eye irritation, and redness are some of the common symptoms of conjunctivitis.
3. Blepharitis:-
Blepharitis involves inflammation of the eyelids. It is also one of the most common causes of eye irritation. The complication often occurs when oil glands located at the base of eyelashes get clogged.
Other common symptoms of blepharitis include sticky eyelids, itchy eyelids, swollen eyelids, burning sensation in the eyes, loss of eyelashes, and abnormal eyelash growth.
4. Corneal abrasion:-
A corneal abrasion occurs when the cornea suffers a minor scratch from specks of metal, flying dust, fingernail, grains of sand, or other foreign objects. A corneal abrasion commonly occurs when the contact lens scratches the cornea.
Some of the common symptoms of the eye complication include eye irritation, eye redness, blurred vision, and sensitivity to light.
5. Corneal Ulcer:-
Corneal ulcer, as the name implies, is an open sore in the cornea’s surface. The eye condition is common among people who wear contact lenses, especially those who forget to take them overnight.
Some of the common symptoms of a corneal ulcer include eye irritation, sensitivity to light, eye redness, eye discharge, watery eyes, and itchy eyes.
6. Eye makeup:-
Eye cosmetics contain a myriad of chemicals that are harmful to the eyes. Using eye makeup past their expiry date is one of the common cases of eye irritation, redness, itchiness, and blurriness. Avoid using any eye cosmetic product past its expiry. Also, make sure to avoid sharing your eye makeup with others to lower the risk of eye allergies.
7. Trichiasis:-
Trichiasis occurs when eyelashes abnormally grow in the wrong direction. The eyelashes that grow inwards can act like needles and scratch the eyes during blinking and eye movement, causing damage to the cornea over time. Eye irritation is one of the primary symptoms of the eye condition. Other symptoms include sensitivity to glare, tearing, redness, and pain.
For eye treatment in Kolkata visit Disha Eye Hospital
At Disha Eye Hospital, we are committed to providing high-quality eye treatment by using state-of-the-art medical technologies. Our eye specialists help different eye problems like diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma. An early diagnosis means timely treatment. Our focus is also towards ensuring affordability in our treatment so that people from all walks of life can access high-quality eye care at affordable prices. Learn more about the eye care services we offer at http://www.dishaeye.org
Posted on December 25, 2018 January 16, 2019
Why You Should Go for Routine Eye Check Ups?
Getting an annual eye exam is a crucial part of ensuring good eye health for yourself and your loved ones. The benefits of regular eye checkups go beyond preventing eye-related complication as it also helps in diagnosis underlying health conditions at early stages. This way, you can start early treatments and lower the risks of complications.
Consult best eye specialists in Kolkata
Book an appointment at Disha Eye Hospital to get a comprehensive eye exam from one of the best eye specialists in Kolkata. Visit http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment to book your appointment online.
Here are some of the important reasons for getting regular eye checkups:
1) Diagnosis of diabetes:
Blurry vision is usually one of the first warning signs of high blood sugar levels. When your body doesn’t produce enough insulin that helps break down sugar in the body, the blood vessels swell up. This swelling can cause the fluid to leak into the lens of your eye, making it difficult for eyes to focus. An early comprehensive eye exam conducted can not only lead to early detection of diabetes, but the eye doctor diabetes specialist can help you manage diabetes better.
2) Diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy:-
Diabetic retinopathy, as its name implies, is one of the complications of diabetes. As discussed above, diabetes causes damage to the blood vessels in the eyes, causing them to leak and swell. This can also cause the eyes to grow new, weak blood vessels which leak blood in the vitreous gel of the eye and lead to vision blurriness. The bleeding can form scars over time and detach the retina from the eye.
The only way to detect the presence of diabetic retinopathy during early stages is through a comprehensive eye exam. This is because the eye disease does not cause any symptom during the initial stages. The eye doctor may conduct various eye tests, including a dilated eye exam (for a detailed examination of the eyes), and optical coherence tomography (to examine retina) to confirm the presence of the eye complication.
3) Keep your children’s eyes healthy:-
There’s no doubt that good vision helps your children learn better at school. However, children these days spend longer time using phones, tablets, and laptops which can take a toll on their vision.
The best way to ensure your children have a good vision is by taking them to annual eye checkups. The eye doctor can diagnose if your children have a refractive error and can suggest treatments and visual aids such as eyeglasses and contact lens accordingly.
4) Diagnosis of glaucoma:-
Glaucoma, apart from being one of the leading causes of vision loss, is also one of the most common eye complications. Glaucoma occurs when the passages in the eyes clog and prevent eye fluids from draining. As a result, the eye fluids accumulate and increase intraocular pressure in the eyes. This. in turn, causes damage to the retina and optic nerve, and leads to vision impairment.
By visiting an eye doctor every year, you can get the eye complication detected at early stages. As such, you can start early treatment to lower the risks of complications. To detect the presence of glaucoma, an eye doctor may perform several eye tests, including tonometry (for measuring pressure in the eyes), ophthalmoscopy (to examine the topic nerve), and perimetry (to examine the field of vision).
5) Diagnosis of cataracts:-
Common in older adults, cataracts is one of the most serious eye complications and leads to permanent vision loss. The eye complication occurs when protein builds up in the lens of the eyes and start forming clumps. As such, the protein build-up clouds the lens and obstruct light from fully entering into the retina.
Apart from older age, diabetes, family history of the eye disease, and physical injury to the eyes can also increase the risk of cataracts. During your annual eye exam, your eye doctor can detect early cataract symptoms such as abnormal changes in the lens area, nearsightedness, double vision, and sensitivity to glare. To confirm the presence of the eye disease, your eye doctor may conduct the three important tests, including visual acuity test, retinal exam, and slit-lamp exam.
Consult best retina specialists in Kolkata
If you are having blurry vision or you are diabetic, consult best retina specialists in Kolkata at Disha Eye Hospital. Our retina specialists can help diagnose problems like diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma etc. At Disha Eye Hospital, we use industry-leading medical technologies and equipment to provide high-quality eye care. To learn more about our eye care services, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/.
Posts navigation
Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Best Eye Doctor
Burning Eyes
Cataract
Contact Lenses
corneal Disease
Diabetic Retinopathy
Dry Eye
Eye Care
eye donation
eye examination
eye health
Eye Hospital
eye irritation
eye pain
Eye Specialists
eye treatment for Kids
Eye Treatments
eye treatments for children
Facts
FAQ
glaucoma treatment
glaucoma treatment in Kolkata
Glucoma
Lasik
low vision
Ocular Melanoma
photophobia
Retina Specialist
Retina Surgery
Uveitis
vision problems
watery eye
Recent Posts
Ocular Melanoma: 10 Important Things to Know
Common Eye Injuries at Home, Prevention, And Treatment
10 Things to Know about Photophobia
What are the Differences Between eye Screening and a Comprehensive Eye Examination?
8 Common Signs of Vision Problems
Find Us
Address
88 (63A), Ghoshpara Road,
Kolkata- 700120. West Bengal
Email
dishaeyehospitals@gmail.com
Phone
(033) 2545-1233
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
Copyright © Disha Eye Hospitals. All rights reserved.