Reverse Cavities and Heal Tooth Decay With THESE 5 Steps! – Natural News
Now Trending:
How to Grow Garlic Indoo...
Do You Want to Lower You...
Okra Controls Hunger And...
How To Relieve A Headach...
Natural News
Menu
Home
Natural Remedies
Health
Recipes
Reverse Cavities and Heal Tooth Decay With THESE 5 Steps!
admin | February 5, 2017 | Health | No Comments
TwitterFacebookPinterestReddit
No one likes cavities they are uncomfortable to say the least. What if you could reverse the tooth decay and feel better naturally? You can!
Cavities happen when bacteria produce acid, the acid begins to destroy the tooth enamel.There was a study done that actually proved that tooth decay could be reversed with the proper diet.
What Causes Tooth Decay?
Lack of fat-soluble vitaminsSugars being left on the teethToo much phytic acid rich foodsToo much processed sugarLack of minerals
How To Reverse Cavities:
Cut Out The Sugar
Sugar needs to be cut out if you want your teeth to be healthy. Sugar prevents the healthy flow of dental fluids and we can’t have that! Sugars do lots of damage to our teeth.
Oil Pulling
Oil pulling, Swishing a tablespoon of coconut oil in your mouth for about twenty-five minutes then spitting it out will reduce cavities and prevent gingivitis.
Use Mineralizing Toothpaste
Making your own toothpaste might be the best option as these things can be rather pricey but are easily made at home, recipe below.
Cut Out Phytic Acid
This type of acid is known for blocking minerals it is found in grains , seeds, nuts, and beans. This type of acid can pose a serious health threat as is. It has been known to cause osteoporosis.
Consume Foods Rich In Nutrients
Eat more veggies. Adding in some greens, nuts, seeds, and avocado will help tremendously with your fight against tooth decay.
Try doing all of these things I guarantee you will see results in no time!
Related
TwitterFacebookPinterestReddit
Related Posts
This Tea Heals Fibromyalgia, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Hashimoto’s, Multiple Sclerosis, And More…
No Comments | Feb 2, 2017
Spray This Oil And You Will Never See Mold Again!
No Comments | Mar 2, 2017
HOW MUCH WATER YOU SHOULD DRINK FOR YOUR WEIGHT?
No Comments | Jun 11, 2017
Attention! Avoid Mixing These Household Products. They Cause Damage When Mixed!
No Comments | Jan 25, 2017
About The Author
admin
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Tag
acv Aloe Vera baking soda banana beauty Blueberry Depression DIET Drink eat healthy face food Full Moon garlic ginger Healhty health heart help high blood pressure Honey howto lemon Lemon juice limonade LOSE WEIGHT March Mystery orange juice pinterest POUNDS power protein remedies remedy skin Smoothie snack TIPS TURMERIC underarms vanilla WARM WATER water Weight Loss
How to Grow Garlic Indoors
Do You Want to Lower Your Uric Acid Levels?
Okra Controls Hunger And Diabetes, Lowers Cholesterol And Removes Fatigue
How To Relieve A Headache In Just 5 Minutes Without Any Pills
Stop Buying Ginger. Here’s How To Grow an Endless Supply of Ginger Right at Home
Say Goodbye To Vertigo, Lupus, Fibromyalgia, Arthritis, Chronic Fatigue, Thyroid Problems And Much More!
Copyright © 2019 Natural News.
Theme by MyThemeShop.
Sample Page