MDHealth.com
10 Things to Eat When You Feel Nauseous
When feeling nauseated, probably the last thing you want to think about is drinking or eating. Even so, you need to have adequate nutrition in order to sustain good health and get recovery from the illness. While some foods can make nausea worse, there are other foods you can safely eat without feeling worse. In fact, once you know what food to eat when nauseous, you can actually find foods that will make your symptoms better as you recover from your illness.
What to Eat When Nauseous
When you are nauseous, there are things you can eat that will help you feel better and will ease stomach upset. These include the following:
1. Eat Some Ginger
Ginger can be eaten in order to decrease nausea. You should eat about 1 gram of ginger to control the nausea, eating up to four grams daily. If you happen to be pregnant, talk to your doctor before trying ginger. In pregnancy, the dose shouldn't be any higher than a gram.
Ginger can be incorporated into various foods and snacks without going over dosage recommendations. You can take ginger as a tea using fresh ginger or chew on ginger that has been crystallized. One thing to point out is that ginger is one of options for what to eat when nauseousbut it doesn't work for others.
2. Try the BRAT Diet
BRAT diet—bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast is good for those who have nausea or diarrhea because they are very bland and are easy to keep down. It is recommended to follow this diet only when you have gone at least 6 hours without actually vomiting.
The BRAT diet is a good cure for nausea. Yet, remember that the BRAT diet is a short-term diet, and you're supposed tobe able to eat regular food after taking the diet for 24 to 48 hours. If you are still vomiting, however, you should only take in a clear liquid diet or seek for medical help.
3. Try Some Peppermint
Peppermint seems to be a good choice when it comes to what to eat when nauseous for some people, even though doctors and scientists don't agree on its usefulness. It can be helpful for those with indigestion and heartburn, but it also helps those who are nauseous. It may be helpful in stopping the stomach spasm associated with vomiting.
You can get your peppermint by eating Tic Tacs or Mentos but be carefully that the sugar in them can make you sick. Another option is sugar-free gum with peppermint in it; however, chewing can cause air to enter the stomach, which can lead to uncomfortable bloating. If you are choosing to stay with a liquid diet, you can try drinking peppermint tea.
4. Drink Plenty of Fluids
Taking in about 8 to 10 glasses of water or other clear fluid is healthy even more important when you are nauseous. If you have vomiting along with the nausea, try to stay hydrated with clear liquids. You can try drinking energy drinks and sports drinks that contain fluid and electrolytes. They are really concentrated yet many contain artificial colorationwhich won't help you if you are nauseous. In order to have the sports drink be healthy for you, you need to cut it with water by 1/2 or 1/4.
5. Flat Soda Can Help
Flat soda can help when you don't know what to eat when nauseous. Soda has a lot of sugar in it but, if you drink it flat to soothe your stomach. In order to flatten it, you should put it in some type of Tupperware and shake it, letting out the air. Repeat this as often as it takes to make the soda flat. Ginger ale is another great drink choice, especially if it has real ginger in it. Cola, when drunk flat, will also soothe your stomach.
6. Try Lemons
As the commonly used remedy for morning sickness, lemons seem to have the ability to block nausea. You can suck on them directly or put them in foods, and sometimes even smelling them is a good way to take in the aroma of lemons. Sucking lemon candy can also help with the nauseous. Foods similar to lemons, such as tart foods and lime tend to be good options for those wandering what to eat when nauseous.
7. Eat Some Chilled Foods
Doctors have determined that nausea is related to the central nervous system. There are many factors that contribute to the sensation and severity of nausea. It appears that the temperature of food also plays a role in nausea. When you consume chilled foods, such as salads, popsicles, sorbetsand cold sandwiches, your nausea will be lessened and you will feel better eating them.
8. Try Eating Salty Pretzel & Crackers
If you are still concerned about what to eat when nauseous, try eat some crackers. When you have nausea right after arising in the morning, try nibbling on some soda and crackers before getting up. Things like salty crackers, dry toast, dry pretzels, and dry cereals can all help to control nausea if eaten slowly during the day. These must be eaten dry otherwise they might make the nausea worse.
9. Make Use of Comfort Foods
Food with strong smells,being spicyor containing a lot of fat can make nausea worse. This means that you should stay with comfort foods such as mashed potatoes, noodles, and white rice. These tend to easy to digest and calm your stomach.
10. Try Some Chile Peppers
Usually spicy foods will make nausea worse. The major exception is chili peppers. Chili peppers contain a substance known as capsaicin that stimulates substance P which acts just like a medication for nausea. There are many dishes that contain chili peppers that can be used to quell nausea.
Click here for a diet routine as your reference.
What to Avoid When Nauseous
Steer clear of processed, greasy or salty foods like donuts, pastries, hamburgers, chips, canned foods, pastries, white bread, and fried food.
Stay away from food with strong odors and spicy food.
Steer clear of carbonated beverages, alcoholand caffeine.
More Tips to Help With Nausea
In addition to the issue about what to eat when nauseous, you also need to follow these tips when you feel nauseous.
Make sure you eat in a room that is cool and fresh. If the air is stale, you may feel more nausea.
Take small and frequent meals. Aim for 6-8 little meals in the daytime and have a snack before going to bed.
Use a mouth rinse before you eat and after you eat to eliminate the bad taste you might have in your mouth.
Keep your head up whether you are sitting or lying for an hour after each meal. This method will lessen the nausea.
When to Contact the Doctor
You should make contact with the doctor if you notice these symptoms:
You have vomiting more than three times a day.
You can't keep anything solid or liquid down.
Your nausea lasts more than 2 days.
You feel weak.
You have abdominal pain.
You have an elevated temperature.
You have failed to urinate for 8 hours.
Same Category
How to Cook Chicken Wings in a Fry Daddy
5 Chicken Wing Recipes Cooked with Lemon Pepper
No Carb Foods and Diet Plan
The Best Types of Fleshy Fruits You Should Eat
Recipe of Delicious French Toast
Complex Carbohydrates Benefits and Sources
What Are the Benefits of Soaking Almonds?
Diary and Non-Diary Foods Rich in Calcium
MORE
About Us
CopyRight © WWW.MD-HEALTH.COM.
Last Updated 23 April, 2019.