High blood pressure medications disrupt erections
Home
Subscribe for Free
About Matt Cook
Contact Us
Write For Us
Media Info
Advertising Info
High blood pressure medications disrupt erections
November 13, 2016 Matt Cook Anti-Aging, Drug & Supplements, Male Performance, Medicine, Men's Health 0
Today’s new miracle drug for blood pressure are ACE inhibitors.
ACE (angiotensin-converting-enzyme) inhibitors cause the relaxation of blood vessels.
Since erections are created by filling blood vessels, it’s not surprising that high blood pressure medications disrupt erections.
They’re part of a long list of drugs that cause erectile dysfunction.
ACE inhibitors cause severe “rockiness” problems, erectile dysfunction issues in men.
They also caused lower libido in addition to the simple inability to get good quality erections.
But doctors don’t tell you that.
Now we see the reason why ACE inhibitors cause ED.
The ACE inhibitors include enalapril (Vasotec), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril) and ramipril (Altace).
People have been asking for a while if does lisinopril causes ED, and they ask the same thing about the rest.
But ACE inhibitors have been the miracle drug of blood pressure.
So all the studies that have been done for the first 20 years of their life have been complementary.
They’ve all been wonderful studies showing how great they are.
Drug companies can legally bury studies that don’t show a drug as being beneficial.
And they use that loophole regularly.
So we don’t get to see those studies.
Eventually, though, after a drug has been out for a while things change.
As the drug nears the end of its patent life, some of the glow comes off the rose.
We start to see some of the studies pointing to negative side effects.
The media and public start to show the downfalls that we’ve known all along but that Big Pharma denied.
But now these side effects of blood pressure medicine in men come out into the open.
Here at Daily Medical Discoveries, we don’t just look at studies.
We also look at the theory behind the studies.
So we know we’re getting an accurate look at something.
We don’t just blindly accept studies.
We look at them carefully and weigh the science, like the studies in today’s newsletter.
Here’s an excellent study showing exactly why ACE inhibitors are so bad for men.
It turns out that the ACE inhibitors lower DHEA which is important in producing testosterone and estrogen.
But they also lower the production of many downstream male hormones, called androgens.
You have to realize that the whole story about hormones in men is not a strictly testosterone featured story.
Testosterone may be a character in the drama, but other male hormones have roles as well.
And they are all created out of still other hormones.
All of these other male hormones are generally called androgens.
And you need all of them — not just testosterone or DHEA.
But it turns out that the ACE inhibitors lower DHEA and all the hormones downstream from DHEA.
Users of ACE inhibitors had significantly lower serum DHEA and also tended to have lower serum androstenedione and androst-5-ene-3β,17β-diol.
That means that many of the male androgens necessary for powerful erections are absent when you take ACE inhibitors.
Who knew?
Well, a lot of people knew.
It was obvious from day one when ACE inhibitors were being tested that the interfered with male erections.
But the drug companies refused to acknowledge this, refused to study this, and refused to disclose it.
So ACE inhibitors are commonly used, and their ED side effects are treated with nitric oxides.
And we’ve recently discussed the dangers of nitric oxides.
So, what do you do now, especially if you are on ACE inhibitors?
First, you might want to talk to Dr. about getting off of the ACE inhibitor.
You can try one of the older and even better drugs.
Some of the older blood pressure medications work just as well or better than ACE inhibitors.
And they don’t have the same erection destroying properties as ACE inhibitors do.
Even better, if your blood pressure is naturally around 140/100, you may want to go without any medication at all.
You might also want to check out some of the other newsletters that we’ve done recently.
And some studies that show just consuming a good quantity of milk and dairy products can lower blood pressure dramatically without drugs.
You might also want to look at the study showing that we overtreat blood pressure.
What doctors consider “high blood pressure” is not necessarily damaging or a problem.
I’m not talking about readings of 200/100 but instead 140/100, 140/90, or 130/90.
These readings can be perfectly healthy for a man.
And the last thing you want to do is lower your blood pressure with dangerous medications.
Plus you get to keep good erections that way.
Matt Cook is editor-in-chief of Daily Medical Discoveries. Matt has been a full time health researcher for 26 years. ABC News interviewed Matt on sexual health issues not long ago. Matt is widely quoted on over 1,000,000 websites. He has over 300,000 daily newsletter readers. Daily Medical Discoveries finds hidden, buried or ignored medical studies through the lens of 100 years of proven science. Matt heads up the editorial team of scientists and health researchers. Each discovery is based upon primary studies from peer reviewed science sources following the Daily Medical Discoveries 7 Step Process to ensure accuracy.
+Citations
+More Information
ACE inhibitor use was associated with lower serum dehydroepiandrosterone concentrations in older men
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0009898110002688
Click for more information on the ACE inhibitors, for more information on proper medicine, and for more information on natural ways to reduce extreme high blood pressure.
ACE inhibitors
erectile dysfunction
erections
high blood pressure
hypertension
lisinopril
Previous
Erectile dysfunction drugs cause cancer
Next
Increase DHT with exercise
Be the first to comment
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search our Articles
Search for:
Recent Posts
Dairy: What They Aren’t Telling You
Easy Liver Fix (Eliminates Toxin That Causes Fat Buildup)
The Shocking Reason Why Men in Greenland Never Have Heart Attacks
They’ve Sent Their Goons After Me for What I’ve Discovered
This natural amino acid prevents prostate cancer
Here’s what really fixes “beer bellies” in men
This Oscar-winning movie hides a shocking health breakthrough
These 5 unusual foods that restore things “down there”
This is the best natural antibiotic on Earth for men
This Type of Wine Relieves Fatigue and Gives Men Lasting Energy
Are these supplements a good way to raise testosterone?
These essential oils could save your life in the outdoors
Should you be avoiding carbs?
What doctors aren’t telling men about blood sugar
New pineapple-based supplement lengthens lifespan
Prevent Iron Buildup in the Brain – New Iron Breakthrough
The Cocoa Powder Craze – Why Stores Are Running Out
Breathing for Better Erections
Smoking increases testosterone by 17% in healthy men
Study: Can this LED light raise testosterone and bedroom desire?
Check Your Food Labels for This Toxic Chemical
Men: Keep This Gland Healthy for Bigger, Better Erections
Lift the Tesla Off the Baby (How to Do It)
They’re Lying About Heart Disease – Here’s Why
Sorry, Gym-Goers – This Easy Exercise Is Healthier
Popular Tags
aging anxiety aspirin BPH cancer carbon dioxide cholesterol coffee cortisol depression DHEA dht diabetes endotoxins erectile dysfunction estradiol estrogen exercise fish oil free fatty acids high blood pressure hypertension inflammation iron libido liver nitric oxide obesity penile fibrosis prostate prostate cancer pufas serotonin SSRIs statins stress sugar T3 T4 testosterone thyroid type 2 diabetes vegetable oil vitamin e weight loss
Get Your Free Book About Matt Cook Contact Us
Write for Us Media Info Advertising Info Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions
2016-2019 Calworth Glenford LLC. All Rights Reserved. All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. We guard your privacy very seriously and do everything in our power to protect your anonymity, please review our Strict Privacy Policy. Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Disclaimer, Terms and Conditions, and Privacy Policy. You must be 18 in order to use this website. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. We assume no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. All trademarks, registered trademarks and service marks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners. Any products offered subject to this Money Back Guarantee. Contact Us