/DTD HTML 4.01//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/strict.dtd"> Reduce cholesterol by understanding normal cholesterol levels and how to lower cholesterol by diet, medication and exercise.
Lowering High Cholesterol
submit a link | sitemap | contact
Home
High Cholesterol
High Cholesterol Causes
Normal Cholesterol
Levels of Cholesterol
Good & Bad Cholesterol
Lower Cholesterol
Lowering HDL
High Cholesterol Levels
Cholesterol Treatment
Low Cholesterol Diet
Healthy Barbeques
Cholesterol Good Food Guide
Heart Exercise
Cholesterol Medication
Vitamin/supplement
Health Articles
Health News
Resources
Health Help Sites
Arthritis Pain Help
Back Pain Help
Bipolar Disorder
Blood Pressure
Diet & Weight Loss
Erectile Dysfunction
Laser Eye Surgery
Male Fitness
Meditation
Tinnitus Cures
Upper Arm Exercises
Yoga Guide Books
Stress & Anxiety
Health Sites
Encrypted Secure Email service
Medical Coding Training
GNLD
Medical Transcription Services
Medical Billing Services
Electronic Medical Records
ICD-10 Implementation
HIPAA Compliant Email Service
Four Main Factors Causing High Cholesterol
For some, even maintaining cholesterol at the right levels and being fit and thin will still not prevent the development of high levels of bad cholesterol. Due to heart risk factors besides diet, some people require a very aggressive approach which includes cholesterol lowing medication.
Lifestyle issues and high cholesterol
When we opt for convenience in eating over nutrition, we are setting ourselves up for problems. Eating fast foods and convenience foods results in eating too many fats and salts, which can raise our bad cholesterol levels. In addition, a more sedentary lifestyle also contributes to unhealthy levels of cholesterol. If you want to see a graphic representation of this, consider renting the documentary movie "Supersize Me." This documentary details the attempts of one man to live on fast foods and little exercise alone. The results on his cholesterol and body health in just 30 days are truly frightening.
A visit to a nutritionist or dietician can help us all better understand eating for the right reasons and for optimal health. It is never too late to start on this path.
Regular exercise will effectively lower cholesterol and will maintain your body strength to function best. Just 20 minutes of aerobic exercise, including walking, each day will lower cholesterol. Exercise does not have to be a large time or money commitment. Simple activities that get you moving and that you enjoy enough to repeat are almost always adequate.
Diet
An important consideration in eating is choosing lower fat.
Buy cooking oils that are unsaturated. Use low fat cooking sprays to replace heavy oils whenever possible. Reduce your overall use of oils even further by using cooking techniques that require little or no oil.
Age and Gender
Cholesterol levels increase with age. Women generally have a lower level than men from age 50 to 55. Once a woman starts menopause, the cholesterol level starts to increase.
While there is not much that you can do about your age, you can make sure that age does not threaten your heart health by sticking to a healthy lifestyle and diet and by getting your cholesterol levels monitored.
Heritage
Genetics play a key role in a person's health and this includes the amount of cholesterol you might have.
Find out if your family battles with high levels of cholesterol and then bring this to your doctor's attention right away. If you have a family history of heart disease and high cholesterol levels, work harder and start earlier in adopting a healthy lifestyle and eating plan.
By James Ellison makes it easy for you to understand the different low carb diets. If you need to know more about low carb dieting visit: http://www.low-carb-dieting-secrets.com
home page | about us | privacy policy | site map | contact us
© Copyright 2011 Creative Publishing Services All rights Reserved
Download the
FREE
Low Cholesterol
recipe PDF