Why You Shouldn't Drink Too Much Water | Top Workout Reviews
Home
Weight Loss & Workouts
Insanity Max 30
P90
Cize
21 Day Fix Extreme
PiYo
Country Heat
Focus T25
P90X3
Insanity
21 Day Fix
Turbo Fire
10 Minute Trainer
Body Beast
Brazilian Butt Lift
Power 90
Les Mills Combat
Meal Replacement Shakes
Ideal Shape
Shakeology
Vega One
Medifast
Isagenix Isalean
310 Shake
GNC Total Lean
Meal Delivery Programs
Hello Fresh
Nutrisystem
Blue Apron
Bistro MD
Home Chef
Plated
Comparisons
Blog
Health
Fitness
Beauty
Self Improvement
Hot Topics
August 1, 2017 | How Healthy Are You? The Body Mass Index (BMI) vs. the Waist-Hip Ratio (WHR)
May 25, 2017 | Meal Replacement Shakes Vs Protein Shakes – What’s the Difference?
March 17, 2017 | 5 Solutions for Eating Sugar Without Gaining Weight
February 20, 2017 | 3 Effective Workouts You Can Do in 7 Minutes
November 16, 2016 | How to Beat Sugar Cravings: Get Rid of that Sweet-Tooth for Good
Search for:
Home Health
Why You Shouldn’t Drink Too Much Water
Posted By: Rebecca
Is It Possible To Consume Too Much Water?
Have you ever wondered about the pros and cons of drinking water?
Did you know that you can overdoes on H2O?
There’s so much marketing behind drinking refreshing and so-called rejuvenating beverages that rehydrating can be more of a fad than a healthy practice. Sometimes, this is the culprit to excessive drinking. This excessiveness is even for fluids we see as beneficial to the body.
The health consciousness many practice also plays a role in drinking more and more on a daily basis.
So What Are the Cons to Drinking Too Much?
If you drink too much fluids, especially in one setting, that drinking can lead to what is known as hyponatremia. Yes, it is a medical condition, and one to be avoided. It describes a disposition when the body no longer contains the right levels of sodium. Sodium is the chemical term for salt.
Bits of it are excreted in sweating.
When hyponatremia occurs, however, the sodium–or salt–in the body is so diluted that it has little affect on the internal human processes. It’s sodium that helps the body to balance the fluids it has. It helps to keep water in blood plasma and other fluids in your cells where they belong.
When that sodium is diluted, water and other fluids begin to flood the body in drastic ways. Cells become swollen due to the excess fluids building up in them.
This can lead to water also building up and expanding parts of the brain.
Symptoms of Hyponatremia To Consider
The result of an overbearing load of fluid, when it doesn’t leave the body, results in bloating. This is related to the expansion of cells as mentioned earlier. If you ever feel bloated, consider how much and how fast you’re drinking water.
From there, things only get worst. Nausea will be present with persistent headaches. You can experience symptoms such as organ failure, seizures or death. These are conditions to be highly concerned with. So be sure to drink water as needed and at a relatively slow pace.
What Causes Hyponatremia?
This illness is not caused by drinking too much solely. Drinking too much at one time usually leads to excess urination. In those cases, the water never gets a chance to truly affect the body.
Thirst is also a bad indicator for the conditions of hyponatremia. Once water hits the tongue, the signal or desire for thirst is triggered off immediately. Once we’ve gotten our fluid source, it doesn’t really compel us further.
Drinking water helps in flushing waste, managing body temperature, avoiding constipation and enabling the body to work properly. It’s a natural drive which is why thirst is a bad indicator.
Simply put, hyponatremia occurs when hydration is increased above normal limits at the same time that other medical conditions restrain fluid from exiting the body and its tissues.
The kidneys, for example, are relatively small organs, so excessive drinking can cause water to back up. The two organs can only process up to a liter of water an hour. Anything more can lead to complications when other medical conditions exist.
How to Manage Excessive Water Intake
You first want to stop the intake of fluids as other conditions can cause it to remain in your body. By eating more salt, you’ll reverse the imbalance of internal fluids. There are also medications to help treat the symptoms, but situations of this condition are rare.
It’s often hard to see the difference between heat exhaustion and water intoxication. So be sure to contact a professional doctor if you’re unsure.
SHARE
TWEET
PIN
SHARE
Previous post
Next post
Be the first to comment on "Why You Shouldn’t Drink Too Much Water"
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Follow Us on Facebook
More information about the commissions that this site receives
How Healthy Are You? The Body Mass Index (BMI) vs. the Waist-Hip Ratio (WHR)
Meal Replacement Shakes Vs Protein Shakes – What’s the Difference?
5 Solutions for Eating Sugar Without Gaining Weight
3 Effective Workouts You Can Do in 7 Minutes
How to Beat Sugar Cravings: Get Rid of that Sweet-Tooth for Good
Subscribe to our Newsletter
First name
Email *
Recent Articles
How Healthy Are You? The Body Mass Index (BMI) vs. the Waist-Hip Ratio (WHR)
Meal Replacement Shakes Vs Protein Shakes – What’s the Difference?
5 Solutions for Eating Sugar Without Gaining Weight
3 Effective Workouts You Can Do in 7 Minutes
How to Beat Sugar Cravings: Get Rid of that Sweet-Tooth for Good
Stay Connected
Twitter
Tweets by @TopWorkout
Facebook
Google+
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Use
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
FTC Disclaimer
Copyright © 2017 | Top Workout Reviews