Uveitis Archives - Disha Eye Care
Skip to content
Menu
Home
About
Services
Eye Bank
For Patients
Our Hospitals
Contact Us
Blog
Category: Uveitis
Posted on January 23, 2019
Do Carrots Really Improve Eyesight?
We have been told since childhood that eating carrots improves our vision. But is it true that eating the root vegetable will do wonders to our eyes?
The notion that eating carrots improve vision dates back to World War II when the British Air Force gunned down German aircraft in the dead of night. It is believed that the British Air Force popularised the carrot myth to keep its radar technology a secret.
1. Carrots are good for the eyes: There’s no doubt that carrots are indeed good for the eyes as it contains beta carotene. The body uses beta carotene to make Vitamin A which are antioxidant compounds essential to good vision. According to the World Health Organisation, Vitamin A deficiency is one of the most common causes of preventable blindness in children.
2. Eating carrots alone will not help you maintain overall good eye health: Although carrots are a rich source of beta carotene, relying only on the root vegetable will not help you maintain good overall eye health. A randomised trial of US physicians found out that long-term intake of beta carotene did not decrease or increase the risk of Age-related Macular Degeneration.
3. Combine carrots with other nutritional vegetables and fruits in your diet: The best way to ensure good eye health for yourself and your loved ones is to eat a diet that contains all the essential nutrients. Make sure to include fresh vegetables, fruits, farm-fresh eggs, nuts, and lean fish and meat in your diet.
4. Here are some of the food items, apart from carrots, that are beneficial for the eyes:
●Almonds: Almonds are a rich source of Vitamin E which maintains eye tissue health. Apart from being a great source of snack, almonds are also a nutritional addition to breakfast cereal and salads. Soak a handful of almonds in water overnight and consume them in the morning the way you want to.
●Salmon: Salmon is a storehouse of omega-3 fatty acids, or better known as healthy fats. Omega-3 fatty acids contribute to vision development. To get the most out of these healthy fats, include salmon in your meal plan for 2 to 3 days a week.
●Eggs: Eggs are another rich source of Vitamin A; it also contains zinc, zeaxanthin, and lutein, all of which improve eye health. The best part? Eggs are a versatile food item; you can eat them for your breakfast and in your lunch and dinner.
●Oranges: Oranges are loaded with Vitamin C which promotes eye blood vessel health. Eat oranges as snacks, or juice them for breakfast. Adding them to your fruit salad is also a great option.
Kale: Kale is hailed as one of the best eye superfoods. The carotenoids, lutein, and zeaxanthin, found in kale promote retina health and vision. You can prepare kale as a side dish or as snack chips.
See through the myth and get your eyes checked every year
Every step you take to improve your eye health goes a long way in maintaining proper vision in the long run. If you notice any changes in your vision and overall eye health, do not neglect it as it can be symptoms of serious eye complications.
Consult with one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, one of the best eye hospitals in West Bengal. We provide high-quality and affordable treatment for serious eye complications, including Cataracts, Glaucoma, Corneal diseases, Squint, Uveitis, and Diabetic Retinopathy in Kolkata.
We have a team of experienced eye specialists who are well-versed with leading medical tools and technology. Book an appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
Posted on January 21, 2019 February 11, 2019
Eye Diseases Associated with Smoking
If you smoke, you’re well acquainted with the guilty pleasure of lighting up another cigarette, despite having smoked one a couple of minutes before. But do you know the damage the smoke entering inside your lungs is causing?
Apart from leading to a number of health complications such as lung cancer, constricted blood vessels, strokes, loss of appetite, infertility, etc, smoking also increases the risk of a number of eye diseases which can lead to blindness.
Book eye check-up online:
Quitting smoking is the best step you can take to reduce the damage the chemicals in cigarette smoke has already done. To further lower the risks of eye complications, make sure to visit an eye doctor every year. Get your eye health diagnosed from one of our eye specialists at Disha Eye Hospital, one of the top eye hospitals in Kolkata. Book your appointment online at http://www.dishaeye.org/appointment.
Here are some of the serious eye diseases associated with smoking:
1.Cataracts: Cataract is one of the most common eye diseases linked to regular smoking. The eye complication occurs when the eye lenses start breaking down and form clumps. Over time, the clumps cloud the lens and obstruct light. This, in turn, leads to vision loss which gradually worsens as the clumps become denser. Smoking causes heavy metals like cadmium to accumulate in the lens and contribute to cataract formation. Also, regular smoking can alter the cells in the eye lenses through oxidation.
2.Dry Eyes: People who smoke regularly are at higher risk of developing dry eyes than those who don’t smoke. Also, cigarette smoke is an eye irritant; it worsens dry eyes in smokers as well as in non-smokers. Dry eyes occur when either the tear glands cannot produce sufficient/quality tears for lubrication or when the produced tears get evaporated quickly.
3.Diabetic Retinopathy: Diabetic Retinopathy occurs when the blood vessels of the retina get damaged and lead to vision loss. Regular smoking causes blood sugar levels to spike up, especially in people with diabetes. As a result, the increased blood sugar levels cause more damage to the blood vessels and worsen Diabetic Retinopathy. People who have been recently diagnosed with diabetes stand at an increased risk of Diabetic Retinopathy.
4.Uveitis: The onset of Uveitis is commonly linked to regular smoking. The eye complication occurs when the eye’s middle layer, the uvea, gets inflamed. If left untreated, the eye complication can damage the vital structures of the eyes, including the retina and the iris. Smoking speeds up the development of Uveitis. As such, regular smokers stand at an increased risk of the complication than non-smokers.
5.Macular Degeneration: Macular Degeneration is one of the leading causes of central vision loss. The eye complication is more common in smokers than in non-smokers. Macular Degeneration occurs when the macula (a part of the retina) is damaged. Smoking is one of the biggest risk factors of Macular Degeneration.
6.Tips to quit smoking:
Most people struggle to let go of the habit of smoking. However, making small changes to your lifestyle can go a long way in lowering the temptation to light one up. Here are some tips to help you quit the habit:
●Fight your cravings:
Like every other smoker, you may get cravings to smoke at specific times in a day. For eg, most smokers get a strong craving to light one up after a meal. When you get such cravings, try to fight them by eating a healthy snack, drinking water, and talking with somebody.
●Take help:
Do whatever it takes to get help in quitting the habit. Taking therapies and using mobile apps that help kick the butt is a good option.
●Hang out with non-smokers often:
You may tend to smoke frequently when spending time with other smokers. One simple and effective way to reduce smoking and quit eventually is to hang out more with non-smokers.
We at Disha Eye Hospital are committed to providing affordable eye care treatment so that people can have a healthy vision. Our services include LASIK, refractive surgery, cataract, diabetic retinopathy, and glaucoma. To know more about our services, visit http://www.dishaeye.org/.
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Best Eye Doctor
Burning Eyes
Cataract
Contact Lenses
corneal Disease
Diabetic Retinopathy
Dry Eye
Eye Care
eye donation
eye examination
eye health
Eye Hospital
eye irritation
eye pain
Eye Specialists
eye treatment for Kids
Eye Treatments
eye treatments for children
Facts
FAQ
glaucoma treatment
glaucoma treatment in Kolkata
Glucoma
Lasik
low vision
Ocular Melanoma
photophobia
Retina Specialist
Retina Surgery
Uveitis
vision problems
watery eye
Recent Posts
Ocular Melanoma: 10 Important Things to Know
Common Eye Injuries at Home, Prevention, And Treatment
10 Things to Know about Photophobia
What are the Differences Between eye Screening and a Comprehensive Eye Examination?
8 Common Signs of Vision Problems
Find Us
Address
88 (63A), Ghoshpara Road,
Kolkata- 700120. West Bengal
Email
dishaeyehospitals@gmail.com
Phone
(033) 2545-1233
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
Pinterest
Copyright © Disha Eye Hospitals. All rights reserved.