Front Squat vs. Back Squat: What's the Better Choice for Athletes? | STACK
Toggle navigation
Log In Join
Partner Sites Fox Sports YardBarker Eastbay Footlocker Yahoo! Sports
Training
Build Muscle
Conditioning
Flexibility
Get Faster
Skills
Sports Injuries
Strength Training
STACK Fitness
Nutrition
Eat Healthy
Hydration
Meals & Recipes
Supplements
Gear
Electronic Fitness Bands
Energy Drinks & Protein Bars
Exercise Apparel
Exercise Equipment
Kinesio Tapes
Lifestyle
Running Gear
Workout Tools
Sports
Football
Basketball Training
Yoga
Baseball
Hockey
More
Swimming
Soccer
Track & Field
Cross Country
Resources
Airline Tickets
Coaches and Trainers
STACK Conditioning
News
Partner Offers
STACK Fitness
Recruiting
Sport Injury Treatment
STACK 4W
Sports Hotel Discounts
Log In
Join
Search STACK
Search
Search
Home // Training // Strength Training
Front Squat vs. Back Squat: What's the Better Choice for Athletes?
STACK Expert Tony Bonvechio instructs athletes on the relative risks and benefits of the Front Squat vs. the Back Squat.
0 Shares Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
I think we can all agree that Squats rule. Long gone are the days when we thought Squats were bad for our knees or that lifting heavy weight would make us slow, lumbering and un-athletic. And good riddance, because we've discovered that Squats help us get stronger, jump higher and run faster.
Athletes used to ask, "Are Squats bad for my knees?" Now, I often hear athletes pose the question, "Which are better, Front Squats or Back Squats?" The answer, not surprisingly, is "it depends."
When evaluating the relative risks and benefits of Front Squats vs. Back Squats, you have to take into account the athlete's sport, strengths, weaknesses and goals. Each lift has pros and cons. To determine which is best for you, keep reading.
Read More >>
I think we can all agree that Squats rule. Long gone are the days when we thought Squats were bad for our knees or that lifting heavy weight would make us slow, lumbering and un-athletic. And good riddance, because we've discovered that Squats help us get stronger, jump higher and run faster.
Athletes used to ask, "Are Squats bad for my knees?" Now, I often hear athletes pose the question, "Which are better, Front Squats or Back Squats?" The answer, not surprisingly, is "it depends."
When evaluating the relative risks and benefits of Front Squats vs. Back Squats, you have to take into account the athlete's sport, strengths, weaknesses and goals. Each lift has pros and cons. To determine which is best for you, keep reading.
Front Squat vs. Back Squat
How to Squat
We could dedicate thousands of words and hours of video to teaching the Squat, and we already have, so check out the videos above to get the low-down on getting down low.
Mobility Requirements
Most importantly, an athlete's mobility will determine which lift is better suited to him or her. If you can safely perform one lift and not the other, the choice is clear. Before loading up the bar, a qualified coach should screen the athlete to determine if he or she has the proper mobility at the shoulder, upper and lower back, hips, knees and ankles.
Front Squats requires significantly more mobility than Back Squats. You need excellent thoracic spine (upper back) mobility to keep your chest up, outstanding wrist flexibility and shoulder mobility to rack the bar, superb hip and groin mobility to squat low with your knees in line with your toes, and fantastic ankle mobility to keep your lower back from rounding.
Very few athletes move well enough to execute a textbook Front Squat from the get-go. That's a blessing and a curse. The positive: it forces you to improve your mobility and flexibility, which may prevent injury in the long run. The negative: you won't be able to lift as heavy right off the bat, which will delay strength gains.
Back Squats require less mobility in the shoulders, hips and ankles, so you can jump into them sooner. That's great for strength gains, but be careful–don't sweep your poor mobility under the rug at the expense of lifting heavier weight. That's a recipe for injury.
Start with the exercise you can perform with better form. If you've got the mobility of the Tin Man and you're not ready for either exercise, start with a simpler variation, like a Goblet Squat.
Muscles Trained
Front Squats and Back Squats work different muscles in different ways because the placement of the bar causes slight changes in motion of the spine, hips, knees and ankles.
Quite simply, Front Squats zone in on the quads and upper back, while Back Squats focus more on the hips, glutes and lower back. Both lifts recruit all these muscles together, but the emphasis shifts from one lift to the other.
Muscle groups might matter to bodybuilders, but athletes should care more about movements, not muscles. That's why getting bull strong in the Front Squat or Back Squat can ramp up your on-the-field performance.
The Battle for Athletic Performance
Now for the real reason athletes lift weights: to get better at their sport. We know Squatting in general builds powerful muscles that increase speed, power and quickness. But which version of the Squat reigns supreme? Let's put them to the test:
Hip Extension: Squats build tremendous strength in the muscles that extend the hip, specifically the glutes and hamstrings. These muscles provide the horsepower for sprinting and jumping. Back Squats load up the hips more than Front Squats, because you can "sit back" into them more. So if you want more powerful hips, get the bar on your back. Winner: Back Squats
Jump Power: Studies show that improving squat strength is closely linked with improvements in vertical jump height. That's because if you can extend your hips with more force, you can propel yourself higher into the air. Studies show no clear difference in jump improvements between Back Squats and Front Squats. Winner: Tie
Sprint Speed: Studies also show that squatting more weight can lead to improvements in sprinting speed. Simply, the more force you can apply to the ground, the faster you can move. But just like jumping, both lifts work. Winner: Tie
Overall Strength: Back Squats let you lift more weight than Front Squats, period. Front Squats are limited by how much weight you can hold on the front of your shoulders. Back Squats let you support much heavier loads across your upper back. There's a reason why the world record in the Back Squat is over 1,000 pounds; it's better suited for massive weights. And with more weight comes greater potential for strength gains. Winner: Back Squats
Shoulder Health: Many athletes, especially overhead athletes like baseball, lacrosse and volleyball players, deal with cranky shoulders that can get irritated by Back Squats. Luckily, Front Squats avoid that pain by placing the shoulders and elbows in a safer position. If you're an overhead athlete, Front Squat with a clean grip or cross grip for greater safety. Winner: Front Squats
Knee Health: Controlling the movements of the knee is crucial for reducing injuries such as ACL and meniscus tears. Squats can help limit the likelihood of knee injuries by strengthening the muscles that stabilize the knee, specifically the vastus medialis oblique (i.e., your inner quad). Front Squats hit this muscle a bit harder than Back Squats, plus they teach you how to push your knees "out" to avoid the dreaded knock-kneed valgus collapse, which mimics the exact mechanism for an ACL tear. That said, sometimes the deep knee flexion of Front Squats can bug an athlete's knee, and Back Squats (particularly Box Squats or squatting with a wider stance) can avoid this nuisance by placing more load on the hips than the knees. Winner: Tie
Cleans and Snatches: The most glaring difference between Front Squats and Back Squats is the carryover to Olympic lifts, the Clean and the Snatch. Back Squats let you lift more weight, but the execution of the Front Squat closely mimics the motion of rising from the bottom position after catching a Clean or Snatch. Olympic lifts are widely respected for their ability to improve explosiveness, so if you want to get better at the Clean and Snatch, Front Squats work better. Winner: Front Squats
Best of Both Worlds
As you can see, when you break down Back Squat and Front Squat benefits, there's no clear winner. So why not do both?
Unless you're an overhead athlete or have a lower-body injury, there's no reason not to include Front Squats and Back Squats in a lifting program, especially if you're training your lower body twice a week. Here's how:
Day 1
A1. Front Squats – 4x6 with a weight you can lift 8 times
A2. Box Jumps – 4x5
B1. Glute/Ham Raises – 3x8-10
B2. Half-Kneeling Cable Chops – 3x10/side
C1. Farmer's Walks – 4x40 yds
Day 2
A1. Back Squats – 5x3 with a weight you can lift 5 times
A2. Lateral Jumps – 5x3/side
B1. Dumbbell Split Squats – 3x6-8/side
B2. Cable Pull-Throughs – 3x10-12
C1. Sled Sprints – 10x30 yds
References
Gullett, Jonathan C., et al. "A Biomechanical Comparison of Back and Front Squats in Healthy Trained Individuals." Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 23.1 (2009): 284-92.
Hori, Naruhiro, et al. "Does Performance of Hang Power Clean Differentiate Performance of Jumping, Sprinting, and Changing of Direction?" Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 22.2 (2008): 412-18.
McBride, Jeffrey M., et al. "Relationship Between Maximal Squat Strength and Five, Ten, and Forty Yard Sprint Times." Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 23.6 (2009): 1633-636.
Wisloff, U. "Strong Correlation of Maximal Squat Strength with Sprint Performance and Vertical Jump Height in Elite Soccer Players." British Journal of Sports Medicine 38.3 (2004): 285-88.
Photo Credit: Getty Images // Thinkstock
Topics: SQUAT | MOBILITY | POWER | CLEAN | SPRINT | LIFTS | SNATCH
Updated: August 25, 2014
Tony Bonvechio - Tony Bonvechio, is a strength coach, powerlifter and co-founder of The Strength House (Worcester, Massachusetts). He was previously a strength coach at Cressey Sports Performance. He earned his Bachelor's degree in Journalism and Mass Communication, and his Master's degree in Exercise Science from Ade
Become a Contributing Expert
Become a Better Athlete
Join STACK and gain instant FREE access to resources that have helped millions of people jump higher, run faster, get stronger, eat smarter and play better.
JOIN STACK
Instant access to FREE resources that have helped millions of people jump higher, run faster, get stronger, eat smarter and play better.
ONE-TAP SUBSCRIBE
Most Popular
How Isaiah Johnson Became the Most Athletic Cornerback Prospect in NFL History
Are Harvest Snaps Healthy?
Driven Not To Be Another Statistic, Deandre Baker Aims to be the NFL's Next Shutdown Cornerback
A Shocking Number of Youth Sports Coaches Are Unqualified for the Gig
How America Killed Play—and What We Can Do to Bring it Back
A Challenge From Urban Meyer Set Terry McLaurin on the Path to Greatness
The Push-Up Variation That Fixes Your Form and Enhances Your Posture
A Lifetime of Intense Training Has Khalil Hodge on the Edge of His NFL Dream
How Andrew Wingard Went From Undersized RB to Breaking Tackle Records at Wyoming
Why Traditional MLB Batting Practice Is Dying a Slow Death
See More
More About Strength Training
Post-Activation Potentiation: How This Unique Training Trick Can Help You
Spotting a Snake Oil Salesman: 4 Telltale Signs of a Terrible Trainer
This Training Technique Will Lift Your Depth Jumps to the Next Level
How You Can Create Your Own Reverse Hyper 'Machine' in Any Gym
Taking a Short Rest After Every Rep May Be a Smarter Way to Strength Train
Are You Ready to Barbell Overhead Press? Here's How to Tell
Why the 2,000-Meter Row May Be the Most Killer Fitness Test Ever Created
What Soccer Players Get Wrong About the Weight Room
More Cool Stuff You'll Like
Build Explosive Strength with This Olympic Weightlifting Program
2014 Summer Training Guide: Wrestling
Tips for Perfecting Front Squat Technique
A Beginner Olympic Lifting Program
Golf Exercises: Big Lifts for Big Drives
Train Like a Pro: Baseball Strength Workout Program
4 Step-Up Exercise Variations That Build Explosive Strength
Perfect the Ray Allen Basketball Shooting Form
Shot Put Training With U. S. Olympian Reese Hoffa
Why Reverse Lunges Are Better Than Forward Lunges
6 Exercises That Build Grip and Forearm Strength Fast
What Your Baseball Position Says About You
More About Strength Training
Get Results Fast With This 30-Minute Workout
Pressed for Time? Try This 20-Minute, 200-Rep Workout
Catcher Technique, Part 10: The Baseball Workout
Build Muscle Faster With This Simple Weight Room Trick
Palm a Basketball With This Grip-Strengthening Workout
More About Squat
3 Ways to Eliminate Knee Pain When Squatting
Video Documents Man's Journey to 600-Pound Squat
Single-Leg Squat Tips for Beginners
How to Fix Squat Form Mistakes That Are Ruining Your Strength
Squat Exercise Modifications to Train Around an Injury
STACK Resources
STACK Fitness
STACK Conditioning
Coaches & Trainers
STACK 4W
News
STACK Partners
Fox Sports
YardBarker
Eastbay
Foot Locker
Men's Fitness
Yahoo! Sports
Stack Sports
CaptainU
Goalline
Krossover
League Lineup
Pointstreak
STACK
About STACK
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
STACK Experts
Advertising
Contribute
Follow STACK
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS