Morphine Sulfate 15mg - MedsChat
MedsChat
MedsChat
Drugs: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
FORUMSDRUGSABOUT
Drug Forums Post Your Question or Story Get Our Newsletter Live Feed RSS (XML) Feed
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Top Prescription Drugs Drug Categories NDC Code Database Half Life Calculator Recent FDA Approvals RX Discount Card Current Health News
Medical Disclaimer Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Facebook Twitter
Home › Drugs: M › Morphine › Discussions
Morphine Sulfate 15mg
52 Replies Updated November 22, 2018
Conversation Starter
Comments Submitted Says:
Wed, Oct 21 '09, 5:47 AM
I have chronic back pain and nerve damage to my right side due to a car accident, The neuroligist said the damage is equal to being dropped 7 stories on my left side. Now he is prescribing Morphine Sulfate 15mg and I am worried about the addiction versuses pain relief
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Showing Replies 1 - 20 of 52
Page 123 of 3 Next Page Sorted By: Conversation OrderNewest Posts First
1
Jean Says:
Wed, Oct 21 '09, 7:48 AM
I have been on Morphind sulfate for approx. 3 months now twice daily for back, hip and hand pain due to Rheumatoid Arthritis. It has helped my back and hip pain but not the hand. My biggest problem is that this drug is like swallowing cement, it is terribly constipating. I stopped it for several days just to see if I was, indeed, becoming addicted and the awnser is no. My physical therapist and other nurses have told me not to worry as long as I was in pain I would not become addicted. But of course we are all different. I feel quite safe in using it.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 5
2
Judy Says:
Wed, Oct 21 '09, 8:28 AM
Hello both Jean, and other questioner. Response 1 for questioner. I have psoriatic arthritis, osteoarthritis, sacroiliitis, spndylitis, slipped disk, and coccyx injury that did not heal properly due to the above conditions not being diagnosed timely. With that said, I have tried morphine sulfate as well. The way I see the dependence subject is this, just because you are on the medication you are not an 'addict'. What happens is your body becomes dependent on the medication over time, and that period being different for each individual. Your prescriber should be aware of the classic tell-tale signs of addiction vs dependence. I started a new drug in Jan of this year, however I've lived in three other states in the last two years, and have not seen the drug used elsewhere. The drugs side effects are extremely minimal compared to other opiate medications. There is one physician I know of that prescribes the drug, and I could refer you to him. He holds several PHD's in internal medicine, addiction, phycology, surgery, emergency medicine and so forth. He also sees many celebrities with pain issues, that are concerned with dependence. As I stated I am sorry for the fact that I have not seen this medication available in any other state than Florida. Another interesting fact is that with this medication you gradually reduce the amount of medication you need to assist with the pain, versus increasing medication as seen and done with every other opiate I've seen. That in itself is rewarding. 2) For Jean, I've tried morphine myself, and for me it did not treat the pain well. I have tried steriod injections as well, which definitely help and allow you to continue the highest level of mobility. I would incourage you to get an MRI if you havent done so already, and have them look at your sacrioliac joints if you are experiencing severe hip pain. My hip pain was treated with medication only for several years until I finally came across a physician that chose to take a closer look. The sacroiliitis has now progressed into spondylitis due to it not being treated correctly earlier. For the record I am only 26 years old. Physical therapy, water therapy, specificed stretching, and yoga have made a dramatic difference for me. As well as the new medication I spoke about above. In my opinion every doctor is different but I also find that stressful situations reduce the effectiveness of my medications, and minimizing your pain is never the best answer even though at times you may think that you are in a far better situation than someone else. That is true in many instances, but when you minimize the pain you're feeling, sometimes it prohibits doctors from reaching the entire conclusions they should about where you are, and where you dont want to end up.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 4
3
Verwon Says:
Wed, Oct 21 '09, 5:55 PM
Morphine, while being a very potent narcotic, is NOT always the best choice for everyone when treating spinal or joint pain.
The reason for this is that, in some instances, for some people, it can cause a side effect of joint inflammation.
I was on it for several years, the generic for MS Contin, as my pain was worsening, they kept blaming my back, saying it was just getting worse, however, I later found out that it wasn't.
Most of the pain I was being treated for was a complete misdiagnosis and the Morphine was creating more pain and problems than it was solving, so it should always be used with caution.
If your pain seems to be worsening for no apparent reason and no obvious degeneration, then ask your doctor questions....LOTS of questions!!
https:/­/­www.medschat.com/­wiki/­Morphine/­
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 1
4
Tempe Says:
Tue, Apr 06 '10, 8:58 PM
is there an over the counter pill that looks just like the 15 mg morphine sulfate tablet ?
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 6
5
aj Says:
Wed, Mar 30 '11, 1:43 PM
i found a little round blue pill with a 15 on one side and nothing on the other side? is this pill morphine sulfate
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 0
6
steve Says:
Sat, Apr 30 '11, 8:08 AM
MORPHINE.........can be a god send to some people,me being one of them.Suffering with severe pain from 2 chest surgeries and generalised osteoarthritis it has enabled me to be able to get up in the morning and lead a better life than prior to being on weaker meds...my dosage is massive and i have been on it yrs now buti honestly do not care..because a life with decreased pain is far better than being in agony every day.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 11
7
LP20 Says:
Sat, Jun 18 '11, 11:40 PM
I have chronic pancreatitis, and the past two big flare-ups my doctor put me on the Morphine 15mg SA, 3 pills a day. Was only taking it about a month, but, for what it's worth, for my pain it wasn't as effective as dilaudid, which is what I took for my first episode (fentanyl patches as well, which are about the best chronic pain medicine I've ever used). I will say this though, the Morphine SA was better for being able to actually function and lead a normal life. I was able to go to work and keep a clear head while still managing my pain. And like others have commented, as long as you are still IN pain, then the chances of addiction aren't as serious. If you find yourself taking them when you're not hurting so much, then start worrying. I ran into that problem with the fentanyl patches... I was wearing them more because I was scared of the withdrawals (which were worse than ANYthing I have experienced in my life) than to actually treat pain, and that led to overuse. Now, I make sure I'm hurting before going near any of that stuff.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 3
8
BEC Says:
Sat, Sep 17 '11, 1:46 PM
Morphine Sulfate is great for my pain in my right foot and has actually got things where I can function for a bit and then have the pain under control! The Norco was not enough and my new DR wrote for the Morphine Sulfate and it has made a difference for me!I use the Morphine Sulfate twice a day and the Norco if I need it for breakthrough pain. The right combination of pain medicine makes all the difference. Also never wait until the pain is severe to take medicine ,it will be harder to regain control of the pain. Hopefully I have helped somebody!! BEc
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 9
9
dancinwithdawgs Says:
Sun, Nov 06 '11, 1:36 AM
Pain management started for me when I started crapping blood and horrible stomach pain from eating Alleve like M & M's. My vision of pain medication was turning to some junkie on the street corner or a drooling vegetable. My new doc said he could understand my pain, said he could, "Feel it." Four yrs later, he was arrested driving wrong way down main street in a nearby town, 6:00 am, with a loaded syringe on the front seat. I guess maybe he was feeling his own pain a little too much. Anyway, I started out pain mgmt on 50 mmg Fentanyl patches with 10/325 Hydrocodone for breakthrough. After weaning off Fentanyl, I kept myself to 60 mgs of 10/325's I was told my gall bladder had to be removed from years of absorbing over 2000 mgs of acetaminophen a day. A year ago, I was put on 15 mg Oxycodone-120 mgs a day. Three back procedures, including a spinal stimulator implant and, most recently an RFA, I requested a small step up on meds.(back to that drooling vegetable junkie fear of mine). Last week, was prescribed 15 mg morphine sulfate-up to but not exceeding 120 mgs a day. The s*** just doesn't work. The first day, I thought the pharmacist put the wrong pills in the bottle. The second day, I strained my back trying to grab my escaping Great Pyrenees puppy, so I thought it was that. I didn't look up anything on the internet, so as not to taint my opinion. Now that I have gone online, I find I'm not the only one that doesn't get equal relief from equal mgs oxycodoone-morphine. Do you think my Dr. is testing me?
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 0
10
Elaine Says:
Sun, Nov 27 '11, 1:08 AM
has anyone experienced severe constipation with the use of morphine sulfate 15mgs?
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 2
11
Doctor Jack Says:
Tue, Nov 29 '11, 11:37 PM
DancingwithDawgs: it sounds like you are being tested but in a constructive way. Morphine is not as strong as oxycodone milligram for milligram.But we have to account for something called "incomplete cross tolerance" it is better to be cautious when switching opioids, but if it is not working the dose needs go be adjusted up or a change to another protocol is needed. It sounds like you would do well with the Fentanyl patch for 24 hour coverage and the MS 15mg for breakthrough pain.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 2
12
Fish Says:
Wed, Mar 14 '12, 4:13 PM
I have now been given morphine sulfer 15mg for chronic back & leg pain due to arthritis and a nerve from a disc..I have had MRIs, shots from Pain Management Clinic, went to a Neuro Dr and had nerve conduction test, more lab work that I can say.----.was on Tylenol3 with codeine.......nothing has helped.......seems like since I started the morphine sulfer 15 mgs my pain is worse.......unbearable at times....I can't lie down.I sleep in my recliner, when I sleep..........what is morphine sulfer equvalent to? I go to my family Dr tomorrow...
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 1
13
Sandra Says:
Sat, Apr 28 '12, 1:37 PM
I don't know what to do!!!
Is it the morphine or the vicodon that is constipating?
I have tried to "stop" each for reasonable periods of time to find out which is constipating. Horrible constipation.
I must have medication but it does not seem to help.. Terrible when I lie down.
Two options -- neither attractive. Take meds and suffer horrible onstipation ----- or stop meds and endure horrible pain.
Is there an answer?
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 0
14
Kim E Says:
Wed, May 02 '12, 10:34 AM
Yes, constipation is a very common side effect of morphine. This -might- ease up after a while, but I find drinking lots of vegetable and fruit juice helps. Note that when you stop taking morphine, you usually go through a few days of diarrhea.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 1
15
BEC Says:
Wed, May 02 '12, 5:53 PM
I always take a stool softner to avoid constipation since I now take pain medicine! I take 2 stool softners daily and it has reduced the constipation problem. I wish my dr would give me something stronger for the osteoarthitis in my knee and foot.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 1
16
Shirley Says:
Fri, May 25 '12, 7:34 AM
My husband just had anterior/posterior back operation on May 1st and 2nd, L3 through S1, brought him home on the 11th, he has throbbing pain from the left butt down, taking the Moraphine- 2 per day with Vicodon for breakthrough pain, is not working well. He only get relief for about 4-5 hours, he has doubled the Moraphine but can't get any long term pain control, seems to me he is getting worse instead of better with the Moraphine, goes for his post op on 6/7, hopefully they can find out what is going on with him and do something for better pain management, I feel for him as there is no much I can do for him, any suggestions, thank you.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 2
17
brokenbiker Says:
Thu, Jul 19 '12, 5:37 AM
I have just been put on morphine 15 mg and the doctor told me and so did the written material that accompanied the medicine that it along with all pain killers - It said to take a laxative while taking this med.
Hope this helps. If a laxative becomes too harsh, try a stool softener.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 2
18
Sandy Turley Says:
Thu, Jul 19 '12, 10:57 PM
First off, all narcotics cause constipation. You can do stool softeners, crushed flax seed, prunes, any number of things.
If you are a pain patient, you will not get addicted to pain meds. There are times if you are going from one drug to another, you might have to be weaned off of the old one, but not always the case. Now if you abuse your pain meds, then there is a higher risk of you becoming addicted. I read of Brokenbiker taking 15mg of Morphine. That is a very low dose. For instance I take 60 mg of morphine, and 5 mg of percoset for break through pain. This 60mg is the highest dose you can get outside of the hospital. If your DR. is giving you more then 60mg of Morphine twice daily, then he better keep an eye on where the DEA is searching, because he can have his license taken away..
But as for you only having a some dose, of that drug, are you truly getting pain relief.
As for Shirley, it sounds like the pain you are referring to is nerve pain. And Morphine and any other Narcotic will not help nerve pain. A good drug for nerve pain is Neurotin. They would start him out on a low dose, and work there way up. Like right now I am on 800mg 3x a day. Hope this helps.
To Sandra, any narcotic is is constipating. They are both Narcotics..
To Fish. The narcotic does not help relieve nerve pain. Ask your DR. about Neurotin.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 1
19
nomoreopiates Says:
Sun, Sep 02 '12, 8:48 PM
From my experience, opiates such as oxycodine and morphine really are one in the same.... The Drs state that they are for cronic pain, but from mine and almost everyone I kno, with herniated disc, slipped disc, and many other back n hip problems, they really don't work worth s**t. I had a Dr take a chance with me n put me on subutex, which yes is an opiate blocker, but I swear by it, it got me off the consipating pain killers n the endless nights crying in, pain... Not saying it will help everyone, just speaking from my own experience
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 1
20
gramma Says:
Sat, Oct 20 '12, 5:49 AM
i cant find a pharmacy even to get my morphine sulphate filled. been 2 weeks going to walgreens, cvs, walmart, publx etc. sad when scoliosis is so painfull and severe. im in bradenton area, fl.
REPLYSHAREREPORT
Was this helpful? 0
Viewing page 1 of 3 Reply
Next Page >
More Discussions:
morphine sulfate 15mg ertab
is 15mg a strong dose of Morphine? I've been on hyrocodone /apap 5/50tab mck. ## after 3years of off/on again meds i... 13 replies
Morphine Sulfate 15mg Plain Tab
round white 54/733 and a cut side on the back side ## That is correct, this tablet contains 15mgs of Morphine, it is a n... 4 replies
Morphine Sulfate 15mg tablets every 12 hrs.
I have had 6 back surgerys with pins,screws and many of fusions.over the past 5 years or more have been on oxycodone 10-... 2 replies
morphine sulfate 15mg sa
can a morphine so4 15 mg, sa tablet be cut in half? ## Hello, William! How are you? No, you cannot cut them. The SA stan... 1 reply
Morphine sulfate 15mg sr
I have been taking morphine sulfate er blue tablets coated in ny. I moved to wisconsin and got my first script here for ... 1 reply
Morphine Sulfate Ir 15mg Vs Oxycodone
is morphine sulfate ir 15mg stronger than percocet 10mg? ## No, in this instance, 10mgs of Oxycodone and 15mgs of Morphi... 4 replies
Morphine Sulfate ER 15mg once a day with three Percocet 10mg
My doctor put me on the morphine to try to wean me down from taking 4 percocets to 3. I took my first morphine at midnig... 2 replies
morphine sulfate er 15mg and imm
Hello, I take the above medications and have been for a little while. I have been having symptoms on & off but thoug... 2 replies
morphine sulfate SR 15mg
What does the SR stand for and what are the difference in 5mg hydrocodon to 15 mg morphine sulfate SR? Doctor took me of... 1 reply
morphine sulfate ir tab 15mg
PILL, BROWNISH, ETH,15 ## Just to confirm, I located the pill in description to be Morphine IR (15 mg); which is used to... 2 replies
Post a Reply
No registration needed.
Simply fill out the form below.
1) Message: *
2) Your Name or Nickname: *
3) Email Address: Optional, stays hidden.
Get notified when a reply is posted here.
Subscribe to Health Newsletter
4) Text Verification: *
Prevents SPAM.
Click here to show the question
Enter the text you see below:
=
Enter the text you see below:
=
* Enable JavaScript to make this easier
This form will be submitted securely
I'm on a public or shared computer
Discussion Thread Guidelines: Any participation in the discussion threads signifies your agreement with the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. (1) Act civilized and be respectful towards others. No profanity, vulgarity or lewd / suggestive content is allowed. (2) Posts encouraging, facilitating, or seeking advice about the abuse of medications or other substances are prohibited. (3) Personal contact information (such as telephone numbers, email addresses, etc) is not allowed to appear on our discussion threads. (4) We do not allow our forums to be used for buying, selling, trading, or for the promotion of a product or service. (5) Posting external links to other web sites is not allowed without our prior approval. (6) We reserve the right to edit or remove content which we find objectionable to the community at our sole discretion.
DAILY HEALTH NEWSLETTER
Join over 130,000 subscribers and we'll send you a Free RX Discount Card. Your email is never shared.
LIKE & FOLLOW US
FacebookTwitter
Browse Home Page Post Your Question or Story RX Discount Card Daily Health Newsletter
Community Drug Forums Live Feed RSS (XML) Feed
Drugs Top Prescription Drugs Drug Categories NDC Code Database Half Life Calculator Recent FDA Approvals Current Health News
Drug Index
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
About Medical Disclaimer Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us
Free RX Discount Card
Save up to 75% at your pharmacy. Ready to use!
Note: All times displayed are GMT - 7.
This information has been independently compiled and is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for medical advice from a qualified healthcare professional; nor is it intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. For more details please see the Medical Disclaimer. This page was last updated on 22 November 2018.
We are committed to your privacy.
Copyright © 2005-2019 All Rights Reserved. MedsChat® is a registered trademark of Limelight Innovations L.L.C. 9888 W Belleview Ave #5000, Denver, CO, 80123, USA