RAMKRISHNA CARE HOSPITAL - The institute of Medical Sciences - Raipur
Toggle navigation
EXPLORE OUR CONTACT INFO
Toll Free: 1800-843-0000
MOD No. (Manager on Duty) - 9755091927
EMERGENCY
9755095108
NABH Accredited Health Care Provider
Nursing Excellence Certification From NABH
OPD TIMINGS : 9:00AM to 5.00PM
Whatsapp No - 9755006842
OPD TIMINGS : 9:00AM to 5.00PM
Whatsapp No - 9755006842
VISITING CONSULTANT SCHEDULES
MEDIA ROOM
CONTACT US
ADMISSION OPEN FOR MEM 2017-20
HOME
ABOUT US
OUR SPECIALITIES
Clinical Services
Professions Allied to Medicine
Laboratory Services & Transfusion Services
Pharmacy
Diagnostics Services
Outsourced Services
PATIENT CARE
CORPORATE & TPA
ACADEMIC PROGRAMS
CAREERS
FIND A DOCTOR
ASK RAMKRISHNACARE
GET AN APPOINTMENT
HEALTH CHECK-UP PACKAGES
REFER A PATIENT
Patient Experiences
Thanks to the nursing staff and my doctor for educating me about my condition and for the care they gave me.
I am Ashok Shandil, a resident of Urmi Rajnandgaon. I met with an accident on 28 October 2014 and had a severe...
My name is Durmeet Singh, I am from Raipur, Chhattisgarh. I had a problem with my liver for since one and a half to two years...
My name is K.S.N. Murthy, I am from Korba village in Chhattisgarh state...
VIEW ALL
MRI
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the body uses a powerful magnetic field, radio waves and a computer to produce detailed pictures of the inside of your body. It may be used to help diagnose or monitor treatment for a variety of conditions within the chest, abdomen and pelvis. If you’re pregnant, body MRI may be used to safely monitor your baby.
Tell your doctor about any health problems, recent surgeries or allergies and whether there’s a possibility you are pregnant. The magnetic field is not harmful, but it may cause some medical devices to malfunction. Most orthopedic implants pose no risk, but you should always tell the technologist if you have any devices or metal in your body. Guidelines about eating and drinking before your exam vary between facilities. Unless you are told otherwise, take your regular medications as usual. Leave jewelry at home and wear loose, comfortable clothing. You may be asked to wear a gown. If you have claustrophobia or anxiety, you may want to ask your doctor for a mild sedative prior to the exam.
MR imaging of the body is performed to evaluate:
organs of the chest and abdomen—including the heart, liver, biliary tract, kidneys, spleen, bowel, pancreas, and adrenal glands.
pelvic organs including the bladder and the reproductive organs such as the uterus and ovaries in females and the prostate gland in males.
blood vessels (including MR Angiography).
lymph nodes.
Physicians use an MR examination to help diagnose or monitor treatment for conditions such as:
tumors of the chest, abdomen or pelvis.
diseases of the liver, such as cirrhosis, and abnormalities of the bile ducts and pancreas.
inflammatory bowel disease such as Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
heart problems, such as congenital heart disease.
malformations of the blood vessels and inflammation of the vessels (vasculitis).
a fetus in the womb of a pregnant woman.
Benefits
MRI is a noninvasive imaging technique that does not involve exposure to ionizing radiation.
MR images of the soft-tissue structures of the body—such as the heart, liver and many other organs— is more likely in some instances to identify and accurately characterize diseases than other imaging methods. This detail makes MRI an invaluable tool in early diagnosis and evaluation of many focal lesions and tumors.
MRI has proven valuable in diagnosing a broad range of conditions, including cancer, heart and vascular disease, and muscular and bone abnormalities.
MRI enables the discovery of abnormalities that might be obscured by bone with other imaging methods.
MRI allows physicians to assess the biliary system noninvasively and without contrast injection.
The contrast material used in MRI exams is less likely to produce an allergic reaction than the iodine-based contrast materials used for conventional x-rays and CT scanning.
MRI provides a noninvasive alternative to x-ray, angiography and CT for diagnosing problems of the heart and blood vessels.
Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Contact us
© Copyright 2011-16. www.ramkrishnacarehospitals.com. All rights reserved.
Website Developed & Maintained By
Website Visitors
×
Get An Appoinment
---Select Specialisation--- Anaesthesialogy Bariatric , Laparoscopic, General Surgery Cardiac Sciences Cardiothoracic Surgery Dermatologist Dietetics & Nutrition Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) Emergency Medicine Gastroenterology General Medicine Gynecologist Laboratory Medicine Laparoscopic Surgery Laparoscopic Surgery & General Surgery & Surgical Gastroenterology Liver Transplant Surgey Nephrology Neuro Surgery Neurology ONCOLOGY (MEDICAL) Oncology surgery Opthalmology Orthopaedics Pediatrics Pediatrics Nephrologist & Renal Transplant Physician Pediatrics Surgery Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation Plastic Surgery Pulmonology Radiology Rheumatologist Urology Vacsular & Interventional Neuroradiology
---Select Doctor Name--- Anil Kumar Dubey Prashant Thakur A R Vikram Sharma Abbas Naqvi Abhay Singh Ajay Parashar Ajay Shankar Saxena Ajit kumar mishra Amish Hashmukh Udani Ankur Singhal Ashutosh Singh Bharat Bhushan Khurse Chetna Ramani Deepak Singh Devendra K Pandey Dilish Singh Divya Singh Faiser Nazar G.R. AGRAWAL Ghasi Ram Agrawal Girish Kumar Agrawal I. Rahaman Imran Gafoor Javed Ali Khan Javed Parvez Jawwad Naqvi Jitendra Maheshwari Krishna Kant Sahu Lalit Jain Lalit Nihal Mahesh Kumar Sinha Manish Shrivastava Manoj Gujjar Mayank Sinha Mohammed Saleem Muffazal Lakdawala Mumtaz Ali Neha Jain Nilesh Gupta Pankaj Dhabaliya Pawan Jain Poulami Choudhary Pranay Anil Jain Prawash Chaudhary (Nephrologist) Priyanka Arora Pushkal Dwivedi Rahul Pathak Rajesh Gupta Rajesh Sharma Rakeshranjan N singh Ravi Prakash Koka Reena Sharma Ritesh Ranjan Romesh Sharma S N Madhariya Sandeep Agrawal Sandeep Dave Sandeep Pandey Sanjay Sharma Sanjeev Anant Kale Sanjeev Kumar Shailendra Sharma Shailesh Sharma Shamrao Narayanrao Patil Shankar Agrawal Sharad Chandak Shriyanka Jain Shushil Jain Siddharth Tamaskar Sonal Bajpayee Subhash Sahu Subuhi Naqvi Sudha Trivedi Suman Kumar Nag Surabhi Chopra Ujjwala Verma Vikas Kumar Bhojasiya Vinod Ahuja
Go
Close