WD-40 — rayharvey.org
Ray17 Comments
WD-40
WD-40 is a uniquely American invention, created in 1953 by three technicians at the San Diego Rocket Chemical Company. The name WD-40 derives from a project the goal of which was to find a water displacement compound. It took them 40 tries. WD-40 stands for Water Displacement #40.
Initially, the main purpose of WD-40 was to use it as a rust preventative solvent and degreaser to protect missile parts. The Convair Company bought it in bulk to protect their atlas missile parts.
Ken East, one of the original founders, maintains to this very day that there is nothing in WD-40 that would hurt you if ingested.
Here are some other uses of WD-40:
1. Protects silver from tarnishing.
2. Removes road tar and grime from cars.
3. Cleans and lubricates guitar strings.
4. Gives floors that just-waxed sheen without making them slippery.
5. Keeps flies off cows.
6. Restores and cleans chalkboards.
7. Removes lipstick stains.
8. Loosens stubborn zippers.
9. Untangles jewelry chains.
10. Removes stains from stainless steel sinks.
11. Removes dirt and grime from the barbecue grill.
12. Keeps ceramic/terra cotta garden pots from oxidizing..
13. Removes tomato stains from clothing.
14. Keeps glass shower doors free of water spots.
15. Camouflages scratches in ceramic and marble floors..
16. Keeps scissors working smoothly.
17. Lubricates noisy door hinges on vehicles and doors in homes.
18. It removes black scuff marks from the kitchen floor. Use WD-40 for those nasty tar and scuff marks on flooring. It doesn’t seem to harm the finish and you won’t have to scrub nearly as hard to get them off. Just remember to open some windows if you have a lot of marks.
19. Bug guts will eat away the finish on your car if not removed quickly. Use WD-40.
20. Gives a children’s playground gym slide a shine for a super fast slide.
21. Lubricates gear shift and mower deck lever for ease of handling on riding mowers.
22. Rids kids rocking chairs and swings of squeaky noises.
23. Lubricates tracks in sticking home windows and makes them easier to open.
24. Spraying an umbrella stem makes it easier to open and close.
25. Restores and cleans padded leather dashboards in vehicles, as well as vinyl bumpers.
26. Restores and cleans roof racks on vehicles.
27. Lubricates and stops squeaks in electric fans.
28. Lubricates wheel sprockets on tricycles, wagons, and bicycles for easy handling.
29. Lubricates fan belts on washers and dryers and keeps them running smoothly.
30. Keeps rust from forming on saws and saw blades, and other tools.
31. Removes splattered grease on stove.
32. Keeps bathroom mirror from fogging.
33. Lubricates prosthetic limbs.
34. Keeps pigeons off the balcony (they hate the smell).
35. Removes all traces of duct tape.
36. Folks even spray it on their arms, hands, and knees to relieve arthritis pain.
37. Florida ‘s favorite use is: ‘cleans and removes love bugs from grills and bumpers.’
38. The favorite use in the state of New York , WD-40 protects the Statue of Liberty from the elements.
39. WD-40 attracts fish. Spray a little on live bait or lures and you will be catching the big one in no time. Also, it’s a lot cheaper than the chemical attractants that are made for just that purpose. Keep in mind though, using some chemical laced baits or lures for fishing are not allowed in some locations.
40. Use it for fire ant bites. It takes the sting away immediately and stops the itch.
41. WD-40 is great for removing crayon from walls. Spray on the mark and wipe with a clean rag.
42. Also, if you’ve discovered that your teenage daughter has washed and dried a tube of lipstick with a load of laundry, saturate the lipstick spots with WD-40 and rewash. Presto. The lipstick is gone.
43. If you sprayed WD-40 on the distributor cap, it would displace the moisture and allow the car to start.
As you can see, WD-40 makes a fine, fine lubricant, though it is not necessarily recommended you use it lube up a vagina, or whatever.
The basic ingredient in WD-40?
Fish oil.
17 Comments
Comments
Trackbacks
J Basil
February 15, 2010
So this is what it’s come to Harvey, lube jobs, vaginas, and jerkoff jokes? Why don’t you go back to tea-bagging?
J Basil
February 15, 2010
I just figured something out–you are using WD40 in your hair to give it that sheen!! LMAO!!!
cowsarejustfood
February 15, 2010
keeps flies off cows? ain’t no flies on me motherfucker. doubleyoudee or no doubleyoudee.
it is one of thee great smells though, innit?
Dave Cochrane
February 15, 2010
Genuinely interesting. Thanks Ray.
Dale
February 15, 2010
Where does he come up with this stuff? Ok Dave, I’ll bite, what was genuinely interesting about it?
Dave Cochrane
February 15, 2010
“Ok Dave, I’ll bite, what was genuinely interesting about it?”
That really is one of those “If you really have to ask…” questions.
Ray
February 15, 2010
Dale, the question is not what is interesting about it. The question is, what isn’t interesting about it.
Dale
February 15, 2010
Way to punt Dave.
Ok, Ray, how long has it been since they made a car with a distributor cap? They’re all electronic these days. It just seems a bit dated to me, although I’ll mention the pigeons to a friend of mine… Even in your attempt to discuss the mundane, you draw vitriolic fire from some foam-at-the-mouth radical; maybe you should give in and go back to broadsiding liberal dogma.
Dave Cochrane
February 15, 2010
“Even in your attempt to discuss the mundane, you draw vitriolic fire from some foam-at-the-mouth radical; maybe you should give in and go back to broadsiding liberal dogma.”
I’m sure the two are not mutually exclusive, hey Ray.
Anyway, this was another fine example of Capitalism at work and I LOVE it, I tells yer.
Ray
February 15, 2010
Twice the displacement, and you still have to use nitrous to beat me!
Cars are no longer made with distributor caps. Therefore WD-40 is no longer an interesting subject? Click-click.
As my ruminative, ungulated, artiodactylated, mooing friend, with whom I go way back, will be the first to tell you, I’m still liberal-baiting. I just take a smoke break every now and again.
Dale
February 16, 2010
I’m happy to see whatever you’re smoking hasn’t harmed your memory.
Cowboy
February 18, 2010
Ray:
I wondered if you’d get to WD-40’s use as a fish attractant. A good friend of mine swore by it, and after fishing with him once, I started to notice that Walmart almost always has an end-cap of WD40 close to the fishing tackle area!
Ray
February 19, 2010
Hi Cowboy. Have we met? If not, it’s nice to meet you.
I confess I’ve never tried WD-40 as a fish attractant, but I have used it as a kind of cologne before, and I couldn’t keep the ladies off me. If that’s any indication, we’re in for one hell of a fishing trip.
Thanks for dropping by.
BedazzledCrone
February 21, 2010
and no mention of taking rust off of 100 year old rifles that have just been sitting in the basement?? I know, I know, who leaves a rifle just rusting in the basement. Based on empirical data collected (it sat in a bath of WD40), this one does work.
keep 1 can under the kitchen sink and 1 in the laundry room
Did I mention that I laughed and laughed
Do they all work? & have you tried them all personally? Did you collect the empirical data required to make these statements??
I’m laughing again
Ray
February 21, 2010
Yuk it up, baby, yuk it up.
ScummyD
February 24, 2010
“The basic ingredient in WD-40?
Fish oil.”
That’s apparently a rumor.
http://www.snopes.com/inboxer/household/wd-40.asp
WD-40 — rayharvey.org | Drakz Free Online Service - February 15, 2010
[…] the original post here: WD-40 — rayharvey.org Share and […]
Leave A Response Cancel reply
Name*
Email*
Website
* Denotes Required Field
Powered by OptimizePress 2.0