Eating grapefruit can impact effectiveness of medication
Yahoo
Search
Search
Mail
News
Follow Us
UK
Yahoo Originals
BIANO
World
Finance
Sport
Style
Celebrity
Movies
TV
Motoring
Science & Tech
Weather
News Video
Viral
Why you should think twice before eating grapefruit and taking medication
Marie Claire Dorking
Yahoo Style UK 15 October 2018
Reblog
Share
Tweet
Share
Grapefruit can seriously effect your medication [Photo: Getty]
More
There are certain things we know could impact the effectiveness of our medication.
How regularly you take it, whether or not you take it on an empty stomach and of course, whether you drink alcohol.
But it turns out that grapefruit can have a pretty big impact on medication, too.
Nurse and first aid trainer Emma Hammett, of First Aid For Life, explains in a piece for the Hippocratic Post that at least 53 medications can be made less effective by the citrus fruit and warns that people taking certain drugs should take extra care when deciding whether to eat or drink it.
Apparently, grapefruit contains a compound, which interferes with an enzyme in the small intestine, responsible for breaking down nearly half of all medicines.
As a result, the fruit can make medicines too strong or not strong enough by impacting how well your body absorbs them.
More scientifically, grapefruit contains a compound called furanocoumarin, which inhibits a vital enzyme in the small intestine responsible for breaking down many medicines.
The furanocoumarins within grapefruit can block the action of this enzyme so instead of breaking it down, more of the drug enters the blood and stays in the body for longer.
But the amount of that particular enzyme can differ from person to person, so grapefruit may impact people’s medication in different ways.
The NHS advises checking with your GP before having grapefruit with medication [Photo: Getty]
More
And the amount of grapefruit juice you have to chug to have an impact on your medication is actually surprisingly low.
According to Hammett, just a single glass can make a difference, reducing the production of the intestinal enzyme that regulates how much we absorb by almost half (47%).
And grapefruit isn’t the only fruit to impact medication taking either. Seville oranges could actually have the same effect.
For anyone concerned about the impact grapefruit might have on medication, the NHS recommends asking your doctor, pharmacist or other health care professional.
It’s not all bad press for the humble grapefruit, however, the fruit is actually rich in nutrients, antioxidants and fibre, making it one of the healthiest citrus fruits on the chopping block.
Research also reveals that it could also have some powerful health benefits, including weight loss and a reduced risk of heart disease.
You can view the full checklist here.
Follow us on Instagram and Facebook for non-stop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyleUK.
Read more from Yahoo Style UK:
Too much sleep just as damaging as not enough
What is urine therapy and should we all be doing it?
Winter vaginas and wacky skin: the truth about what happens to your body in the autumn/winter
Reblog
Share
Tweet
Share
What to read next
Alesha Dixon on heartbreak and self-harm after marriage split from cheating MC Harvey
Yahoo Celebrity UK
Mentally ill prisoners face months-long waits for hospital transfer
The Guardian
Scotland will make it for difficult for England
Yahoo Sport UK
In pictures: Stunning winning images from prestigious Sony World Photography Awards
Two arrested after horse collapses in Cardiff as Easter heatwave grips city
The Independent
In pictures: 'History of cars' exhibition celebrates '20th century's most important object'
I've been trying to help Mozambique recover from devastating floods – unless we act now, future generations are at serious risk
The Independent
Jemma Purfield: Introduce VAR into the women's game
Yahoo Sport UK
Loose Women star Nadia Sawalha reveals BIG news that fans have been waiting for
Hello!
'Flames and tears': How world's newspapers reacted to Notre Dame fire
Greece to ask Germany for billions in war reparations
The Guardian
The Queen is joined by Kate, William and Harry at Easter Sunday service
AOL.com
Most awkward political photocalls: From Ed Miliband's bacon sandwich to Jeremy Corbyn in a canoe
Trump says immigrants who legally work in cannabis industry could be denied US citizenship
The Independent
Football in the USA is predominantly a female sport
Yahoo Sport UK
Jerome Flynn about to quit acting when he was offered a role on ‘Game of Thrones’
Yahoo Movies UK Box Sets
In pictures: World Press Photo of the Year 2019 winners revealed
Mark-Paul Gosselaar reunites with his Saved by the Bell co-stars
Digital Spy
Kate Middleton Had a Sweet Moment With the Queen During Her Birthday at Easter Service
Elle
Divided Cabinet: Who backs no-deal and who supports a softer Brexit?
Celebrity fat-shaming is even more dangerous than you may think – and science proves it
The Independent
Trevor Sinclair gives us his all time starting 11
Yahoo Sport UK
Fans are delighted at news of Sam Robertson's return to Coronation Street
Yahoo Celebrity UK
Sky high stunners: Awe-inspiring aerial images used in BBC's 'Earth From Space'
Virgin flight comes within ‘seconds’ of crashing into drones at Heathrow
Yahoo News UK
Line Of Duty Episode 4: The 9 Burning Questions We're Now Asking
HuffPost UK
In pictures: Denmark opens amazing 148ft high spiral observation top and treetop walkway
Older women being exploited by IVF clinics - when just two a year will achieve success after the age of 44
The Telegraph
Watch the world's smallest business jet (worth £1.7m) take to the skies
Yahoo UK News Video
Meghan Markle's mother Doria 'arrives in the UK' ahead of royal baby birth
Yahoo Style UK
Sky's the limit: Hungry hippos and twisting towers among aerial photography contest winners
Why Meghan Markle Has Reportedly Cut Thomas Markle Out of Her Life—For Good
Women's Health