San Antonio prosecutor says that vaccines do cause autism
San Antonio prosecutor says that vaccines do cause autism
01/31/2019 / By Tracey Watson
The issue of whether all children should be vaccinated to maintain “herd immunity” is a hotly contested one, with people voicing strong opinions on both sides of the debate. One of the most contentious of all the issues related to vaccination, however, is whether certain vaccines – in particular the measles mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine – can cause autism.
Some scientists – particularly those with links to the pharmaceutical industry – have claimed vehemently that all vaccines are safe and that there is no proven link between vaccination and autism. Other respected scientists have claimed just as adamantly that there are real dangers to vaccines – as is confirmed by the manufacturers themselves in vaccine inserts – and that there are tangible links between vaccines and the development of autism.
There is certainly a great deal of anecdotal evidence from families who have watched their happy, vibrant, “normal” children change overnight after receiving a vaccine. As reported by Natural Health 365, one outspoken anti-vaccine voice is that of District Attorney and lead prosecutor for San Antonio, Texas, Nico LaHood, who has sadly had personal experience of the devastating effects vaccines have had on his two children. (Related: Scientific voices speak out unequivocally about vaccines and their dangers.)
Thriving and happy… until being vaccinated
LaHood says that he would feel “comfortable” presenting a criminal case to a journey on the basis of the strong circumstantial evidence he has personally observed confirming the link between autism and vaccines.
Merriam Webster defines circumstantial evidence as follows:
Evidence that tends to prove a fact by proving other events or circumstances which afford a basis for a reasonable inference of the occurrence of the fact at issue.
An abundance of such circumstantial evidence is sufficient to prove a case, even where no direct evidence – like DNA or a fingerprint – exists.
The huge volume of circumstantial evidence of the link between vaccines and autism is more than enough to prove that vaccines do indeed cause autism. Thousands of families can attest to the fact that their children were just normal, happy kids before receiving the MMR or some other vaccine. Some can even provide video footage proving the dramatic changes in their children after being vaccinated.
LaHood has seen this type of circumstantial evidence in his own and many other families.
Natural Health 365 reports:
LaHood gives an account of the vaccination injuries suffered by both his daughter, Maya, and his son, Michael.
According to the LaHoods, Maya was a thriving, healthy baby until being vaccinated. She then developed a skin condition with hives and severe eczema, and sometimes had to be restrained at night to stop her [sic] from scratching until she bled.
Son Michael was healthy, alert and outgoing up until his 18-month vaccination. Immediately afterwards, he started twitching uncontrollably. Even more alarming, he stopped making eye contact, along with displaying the slowed motor and language skills associated with autism spectrum disorder.
LaHood told the producers of the movie Vaxxed, “At some point during vaccinations you see a different child.”
The LaHoods claim that other close friends, including a scientist who works for pharmaceutical manufacturer Merck, and his wife — who is a nurse, refuse to have their children vaccinated. He also says that they know other families whose children were happy and thriving until being vaccinated, after which they developed severe health problems and other issues.
The main issue is the vaccine schedule
For many parents and natural health advocates it is not the individual vaccines that concern them but the way in which they are combined, the young age at which they are administered and the CDC’s insane vaccine schedule which calls for dozens of vaccines to be administered to very young children.
It is not unreasonable to demand that vaccines be safe and free of dangerous additives and adjuvants and that they be administered in a way that will not pose a danger to the most vulnerable members of society: our children.
Sources include:
NaturalHealth365.com
VaxxedTheMovie.com
Tagged Under: autism, Autism spectrum disorder, Big Pharma, children's health, MMR vaccine, Nico LaHood, parenting, vaccine injury, vaccines, Vaxxed
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
RECENT NEWS & ARTICLES
Fox News now demanding the criminalization and ARREST of “anti-vaxxers” … we warned you this was coming
01/31/2019 / By Ethan Huff
VACCINE-INDUCED DISEASE now a top global health threat for 2019 and beyond
01/31/2019 / By S.D. Wells
America’s dark vaccine history – A look at the pertussis vaccine
01/31/2019 / By Lance D Johnson
San Antonio prosecutor says that vaccines do cause autism
01/31/2019 / By Tracey Watson
HPV vaccine makes it more difficult for women in their late 20s to become pregnant
01/31/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
The collapse of vaccine science is well underway, but people blindly cling to the status quo because they know nothing else
01/30/2019 / By Lance D Johnson
Evidence-based reality: Flu shots do more harm than good
01/30/2019 / By Vicki Batts
Vaxxed II raises nearly $50K, needs another $100K to finish production for a Summer release… donate HERE
01/30/2019 / By Mike Adams
Vaccine deep state declares vaccine skepticism to be a “global health threat” so that vaccine truth educators can be labeled “dangerous” to society
01/30/2019 / By Tracey Watson
Top 10 facts about the vaccine industry that the dishonest, child-murdering media refuses to report
01/28/2019 / By Mike Adams
The pharmaceutical industry is largely run by Leftists, stunning new research finds… vaccine mandates, drugging of children, chemotherapy and more
01/28/2019 / By Vicki Batts
World Health Organization declares anti-vax movement to be a top “global health threat” just like the climate change hoax… the vaccine deep state grows desperate
01/27/2019 / By Ethan Huff
Arizona following California’s medical tyranny; seeks to eliminate parental choice on children’s vaccines with proposed new law
01/25/2019 / By Ethan Huff
CONFIRMED: Vaccines are contaminated with glyphosate
01/24/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Argentina launches new vaccine mandate for passports, licenses and more
01/24/2019 / By Vicki Batts
Bill Gates and the World’s Elite DO NOT VACCINATE their own children… and for good reason
01/22/2019 / By S.D. Wells
Exposure to heavy metals linked to autism in children… and vaccines still contain mercury
01/21/2019 / By Earl Garcia
Measles VACCINE linked to 127 deaths in last 15 years; only two deaths linked to humans who contracted measles naturally in that same period
01/21/2019 / By S.D. Wells
Depression: Another side effect of toxic vaccinations?
01/18/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
There is a plague of corruption surrounding vaccine safety
01/18/2019 / By Tracey Watson
COPYRIGHT © 2017 VACCINE INJURY NEWS COM
Privacy Policy