Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages - CureFacts
Main menu
Sign Up
Log In
Index
Get Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
News about CureFacts
Events
Contact Us
To get clear answers, select a condition, a treatment OR a symptom:
Conditions
Flu
Common Cold
Treatments
Flu shot
Vitamin C
Symptoms
runny nose
sneezing
4 Results for
Vitamin C
Sorry... No alternatives found
(Vitamin)
All categories
Vitamin
for
Prevention and Treatment
Prevention and Treatment
Prevention
Treatment
of
Common Cold
All Medical Conditions
Asthma
Charcot Marie Tooth disease
Common Cold
Diabetic Retinopathy
Exercise-induced breathlessness
Pneumonia
Pregnancy
Tetanus
in
All Ages
All Ages
Toddlers
Children
Adults
Seniors
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Filter
Sort by
Rating
Compare
Vitamin C (vitamin)
Helpful
Common Cold prevention in healthy Adults under extreme physical exercise
EVIDENCE | NEEDS MORE TESTING - 5 studies with 598 adults
EFFECTIVENESS | EFFECTIVE	for prevention of symptoms and complications
SAFETY | SAFE
Prevention with Vitamin C supplement (Ascorbic acid tablets). 5 valid study conducted, with 598 individuals. Prevents 1 in 2 Common Cold cases for people under extreme physical excursive (marathon runners, skiers, soldiers). Seems safe.
Read More	Source Save Share
Vitamin C (vitamin)
Ineffective
Common Cold prevention in healthy Children
EVIDENCE | NEEDS MORE TESTING - 4 studies with 1,691 children
EFFECTIVENESS | NEGLIGIBLE BENEFITS
SAFETY | SAFE
Prevention with Vitamin C supplement (Ascorbic acid tablets). 4 valid study conducted, with 1,691 children. Prevents only 1 in 236 Common Cold cases, or less. May slightly reduce severity of cold and speed up recovery. Seems safe.
Read More	Source Save Share
Vitamin C (vitamin)
Ineffective
Common Cold prevention in healthy Adults
EVIDENCE | REASONABLY TESTED - 20 studies with 9,017 adults
EFFECTIVENESS | NEGLIGIBLE BENEFITS
SAFETY | SAFE
Prevention with Vitamin C supplement (Ascorbic acid tablets). 20 valid study conducted, with 9,017 individuals. Has no preventive effect. May speed up recovery by 8%. Seems safe.
Read More	Source Save Share
Vitamin C (vitamin)
Ineffective
Common Cold treatment in Adults with cold
EVIDENCE | REASONABLY TESTED - 7 studies with 3,249 adults
EFFECTIVENESS | INEFFECTIVE
SAFETY | MILD RISKS
Treatment with high dosage of Vitamin C supplement (Ascorbic acid tablets). 7 valid study conducted, with 3,249 individuals. Does not reduce cold symptoms and does not speed up recovery. Mild side effects include diarrhea, upset stomach. May cause kidney stones.
Read More	Source Save Share
Additional Information
Visitors at this page also visited
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Pneumonia in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in Adults
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages Under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Exercise-induced breathlessness in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention of Common Cold in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Tetanus in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in Children
Vitamin C for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Treatments for Prevention and Treatment of Exercise-induced breathlessness in All Ages
Index
See answers about other medical treatments here.
Choose only effective and safe medical treatments.
Live longer. Enjoy better life quality. Save healthcare costs.
Common Cold
Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid and L-ascorbic acid, is a vitamin found in food and used as a dietary supplement. As a supplement it is used to treat and prevent scurvy. Evidence does not support use in the general population for the prevention of the common cold. It may be taken by mouth or by injection. It is generally well tolerated. Vitamin C was discovered in 1912, isolated in 1928, and first made in 1933. (source)
Similar pages on this site
Ascorbic Acid Quick Melts (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Ascor L 500 (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of rhinitis in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of acute viral nasopharyngitis in All Ages
Ascorbic acid (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Vasoflex HD (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Cold in All Ages
Vitamin C (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of acute rhinitis in All Ages
Ascorbate (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Acerola (Vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Good to know
Video
The future of medical technology
Mark Rober, an American engineer, inventor and YouTube personality
Post
Read how smart choices save lives.
Even when genetic variation directly influences our IQ as well as our health.
Learn More...
Article
Doctors name 40 treatments that have little to no benefit on your health
Rachel Clayton, STUFF
Learn More...
Book
How Doctors Think / Jerome Groopman, MD
Common mistakes doctors make, and how to bypass it.
Learn More...
Join CureFacts at:
CureFacts is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
See terms of use and privacy statement. Copyright © 2015-2017 CureFacts. All Rights Reserved.
About
Company
Vision
Mission
Team
News
Events
Investors
Collaborations
Contact
sitemap
Solution
Solution
FAQ
Rating
NLP
QA
Personal Zone
Platform
Treatments
Flu Shot
Vitamin C
Conditions
Flu
Common Cold
Symptoms
Runny Nose
Sneezing
Learn More
Principles
Articles
In the Media
Books
Videos
Blog
Press Room