The Great Marijuana Debate | Right Path Addiction Treatment Center
You can live a sober life again - Call now for treatment options
Outer Banks: (252) 986-3100
Richmond: (804) 292-2402
Eastern Shore: (757) 266-4090
Norfolk: Coming soon... (757) 264-9957
Virginia Beach: (757) 321-0795
Suffolk: (757) 942-4442
Newport News: (757) 913-5920
Chesapeake: (757) 614-1524
Menu
Opioid Addiction
Addiction Treatment
Medically Assisted Treatment Implants
Naltrexone Implant
What is Vivitrol?
Opiate Withdrawal
Getting Help for a Loved one
Getting Help With Your Addiction
Suboxone Treatments Centers VA & NC
National Opioid Overdose Epidemic Statistics
Addiction Info and Resources
Opioid Dependence is a Chronic Medical Condition
Alcohol Addiction
Addiction Treatment
Alchohol Treatments Centers VA & NC
Getting Help With Your Addiction
Having alcohol or substance abuse legal Issues?
Smoking Cessation
Our Smoking Cessation Program
The Pro and Cons of Nicotine Replacement Therapies
Suboxone
What is Suboxone (Buprenorphine)?
Suboxone, is it Right for You?
Suboxone (Buprenorphine) vs Methadone
Buprenorphine & Suboxone FAQs
Suboxone Doctors
Addiction Counseling
Why Counseling
Art Therapy
Talking with your Doctor, One on One
About
Now Accepting VA Medicaid
Our Approach
What Makes Us Different?
Addiction Info and Resources
Career/Investment Opportunities
Legal
Contact Us
Locations
Suboxone Doctors Near You
Right Path – Chesapeake, VA
Right Path – Newport News, VA
Right Path – Norfolk, VA
Right Path – Virginia Beach, VA
Right Path – Suffolk, VA
Right Path – Outer Banks, NC
Right Path – Eastern Shore, VA
Right Path – Richmond, VA
Make an Appointment
Outer Banks: (252) 986-3100Richmond: (804) 292-2402 Eastern Shore: (757) 266-4090Virginia Beach: (757) 321-0795Suffolk: (757) 942-4442Newport News: (757) 913-5920Chesapeake: (757) 614-1524Norfolk: Coming soon...
You can live a sober life again - Click here to call
The Great Marijuana Debate
May 24, 2018 David Langille
Currently, in America, the great Marijuana debate continues. Legalize or not? Canada, our benevolent neighbor to the North, has completely legalized it as of January 1, 2018. Uruguay is soon likely to pass legislation making the industry the world’s first state-run program regulating marijuana production, marketing, and consumption.
In the United States, there exists a potpourri of legislative positions, reflecting wide variations in perceptions and definitions of legality. These attitudes vary due to confusion over verbiage such as legalization, decriminalization and the great oxymoron “medical marijuana”
As a physician practicing Addiction Medicine, I feel there are important points within these debates that are not being made with enough clarity for the average citizen to develop a coherent point of view.
At the recent annual convention of the American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM), a fascinating symposium regarding this issue was held. Physicians and scientists who have spent their careers in Addiction Medicine discussed safety, toxicity and addictive potential, as well as addressing the gateway notion that are the foci of fierce public debate. Legalization versus decriminalization concepts were addressed and “medical marijuana” was revisited. These experts advised caution, patience and restraint.
A central concern was to be wary of “Big Weed”. This is the powerful lobby of those who stand to benefit from rapid rise in popularity and use of marijuana/weed. Collectively the speakers warned of the similarity of today’s environment with that regarding tobacco decades ago. The amount of money being made, and the potential for more profit is behind the increasingly prevalent attitude of widespread acceptance and use of marijuana. These attitudes are subtly and not so subtly being shaped by the weed industry and its proponents and have little to do with the safety of the general public. Just as Big Tobacco successfully pushed a terrible product that continues to wreak havoc and will for years to come, those that promote total legalization, widespread use and “medical marijuana” are not motivated by promoting health and safety. The facts do not support the enthusiasm.
Decriminalization likely makes sense. If tobacco and alcohol are legal (and are no question far more deadly and dangerous drugs than weed), then labeling young people (as well as old folks) as felons and incarcerating them for transgressions of current laws seems stupid. We need to respect the science and facts and make better decisions regarding public policy. By allowing the voice (and money) of Big Weed to enter into the fray, society risks repeating the sad history of tobacco.
There are many facets of the debate that are easily overlooked. Variations in laws in different states, the economic costs to the public and the public health impact are arguments that those promoting full access to weed would like to sweep away. To do so would be irresponsible and we all need to learn more before we begin discussing legalization. Healthy and Productive Illinois, HPILL (www.healthyillinois.org), a public watchdog has eloquently advocated against legalization of weed and has a website that is very interesting and fact-filled.
The public needs to be educated that there are more than 100 different cannabinoids in marijuana. The component that Big Weed is most interested in is THC (4 tetrahydrocannabinol). This is the primary agent responsible for the high associated with weed. It has been used for years as a prescribed medication called Marinol to stimulate appetite and to act as an anti -emetic. Recently the FDA has approved cannabidiol (CBD) for use in specific types of seizures. There are potentially other cannabinoids that can achieve medical utility but the needed research studies likely will never be done if weed becomes completely legal. The weed industry is fundamentally concerned with the THC. Many ordinary citizens have no understanding of these issues and hence there exists confusion. This provides perfect fodder for a good marketing campaign.
In the past 30 years the average THC concentration of weed has skyrocketed so the weed available today is a tiger to a kitten compared to that of years ago. Given new methods of ingestion including vaping, edibles and other techniques, the experience to the user is typically vastly more intense than it has been previously. For some users this is great news. For the average casual user, it can be daunting and dangerous. In the April 2018 edition of Annals of Emergency Medicine is an article describing a mass casualty incident from San Francisco where weed edibles which looked like commercially available and safe gummy candies were ingested at a child’s birthday party. This resulted in multiple hospitalizations No deaths resulted, but ponder this for a minute and consider your reaction if you or your child were involved.
This new potency has yet to be fully studied and to get good controlled clinical trials will likely prove very difficult to complete before the rush to legalize more “medical marijuana” gains critical mass.
There are populations that absolutely need to be protected from weed use. The effect on the developing adolescent human brain has been well studied and is depressing. Young people between 10 and 25 years of age experience, proportional to use, a permanent decline in IQ. This affects cognition, memory and performance academically and in the workplace.
Folks with underlying psychiatric conditions and those with co-existing substance use disorders are particularly vulnerable populations that need to avoid weed use. Lost in the fray is the simple fact that weed is an addictive substance and that many casual users become habitual users. This is related to age of first use and amount used. Associated use of tobacco and other drugs is higher in weed users. These are facts refuted by Big Weed just as the risks of tobacco were refuted years ago. We need to counter the trend of decreased harm perception being promoted by those who wish to legalize weed.
ASAM says marijuana is NOT a safe and harmless substance and its use is not health promoting. Marijuana is a drug with distinct effects on the brain and on behavior. The fact is that addiction to cannabinoids and marijuana is a significant health problem. ASAM opposes proposals to legalize marijuana anywhere in the USA. These are the experts, not the industry shills who make it out as all fun and games.
We do not need to repeat the mistakes of the past (e.g. tobacco). The public is being fed a big lie and we need to respect the science and facts regarding marijuana. We need to remember when Big Tobacco was giving away free cigarettes, advertising on TV in prime time and arguing that their product was NOT dangerous. We are there again.
In America, incumbent politicians need money to stay in office. If you contribute money to them you are more likely to be heard by them then if you are not able to give them money. Sadly, we can no longer trust our elected officials to protect the public’s best interests over those lobbying for Big Weed. This is why it is important to be skeptical of the increasingly powerful voice of those involved in profiting from “medical marijuana” and legalization.
In California weed can be prescribed for anything (if in the mind of the prescriber the patient may benefit). Laws such as this are so lax as to be laughable. I have seen jars of weed with the medical Caduceus emblem emblazoned on them. This must be very confusing to the general public.
Decriminalization of marijuana makes sense. Legalization does not. Physicians have had the ability to prescribe cannabinoids to the public for quite some time for specific indications. Otherwise there are a plethora of anecdotal indications (“it cured my aunt’s cancer “etc.) that will likely never be studied appropriately. In general, the term “medical marijuana” is nonsensical and promoted only by the most avid weed advocates.
Lastly, my biggest concern is letting the fox into the henhouse. We need to respect the science and the scientists. I urge folks to honestly educate themselves on the facts rather than the myths that permeate the debate. Marijuana is a complex plant and a complex issue. Our society needs to be careful.
Written by David Langille, MD, Addictinologist - Right Path
Dr. Langille is one of Right Path Treatment Center’s founding members and is a full-time Physician specializing in Addiction Medicine and helping patients regain their health and lives through the process of recovery.
Related Content
What is Kratom? Kratom is a substance derived from a tropical evergreen tree native to southeast Asia that is related to the coffee tree. It has been used in traditional folk medicine th...
The Pro and Cons of Nicotine Replacement Therapies Tobacco use is the leading cause of death in US, causing approximately 440,000 deaths a year with a price tag of nearly $100 billion in direct medical costs and nearly $1...
How Will the Heroin Vaccination Affect Addiction T... Recent reports in the media have created a big fanfare when the FDA announced the approval of a Heroin Vaccine. It is portrayed almost as a panacea for the heroin epidemi...
The Importance of Sleep in Recovery At Right Path Addiction Treatment Centers a very high percentage of our patients complain about the quality and quantity of their sleep. This is not surprising as, behind...
What Do You Need?
Drug addiction and alcoholism are not a choice, they are in fact diseases. Let Right Path Treatment Centers treat you with compassion.
GET HELP USING MEDICAID
GET HELP FOR A LOVED ONE
FIND INFO AND RESOURCES
VA and NC News
The Therapeutic Power of Writing
May 14, 2018 Melissa Sykes
Building Healthy Support Systems/ Relationships
May 11, 2018 Melissa Sykes
What are you doing to achieve your goals?
February 13, 2018 Simon Hermilo
How to Control Automatic/Intrusive Thoughts
January 30, 2018 Simon Hermilo
Search
FAQs
Is Buprenorphine treatment just trading one addiction for another?
Why is counseling an important tool in the treatment process?
How often am I going to be seen?
How soon can a work schedule be resumed?
Is my medical information confidential?
What exactly is Buprenorphine?
Is Buprenorphine treatment just trading one addiction for another?
No- with successful buprenorphine treatment, the compulsive behavior, the loss of control of drug use, the constant cravings, and all of the other hallmarks of addiction vanish. When all signs and symptoms of the disease of addiction vanish, we call that remission, not switching addictions.
The key to understanding this is knowing the difference between physical dependence and addiction.
Buprenorphine will maintain some of the preexisting physical dependence, but that is easily managed medically and eventually resolved with a slow taper off of the buprenorphine when the patient is ready. Physical dependence, unlike addiction, is not a dangerous medical condition that requires treatment. Addiction is damaging and life-threatening, while physical dependence is an inconvenience, and is normal physiology for anyone taking large doses of opioids for an extended period of time.
It is essential to understand the definition of addiction and know how it differs from physical dependence or tolerance.
The American Academy of Pain Medicine (AAPM), American Pain Society (APS), American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM), and (NAABT) National Alliance of Advocates of Buprenorphine Treatment, have recognized these definitions below.
Addiction
Addiction is a chronic disease, with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following: impaired control over drug use, compulsive use, continued use despite harm, and craving.
Physical Dependence
Physical dependence is a state of adaptation that is manifested by a drug class specific withdrawal syndrome that can be produced by abrupt cessation, rapid dose reduction, decreasing blood level of the drug, and/or administration of an antagonist.
Tolerance
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug induces changes that result in a diminution of one or more of the drug’s effects over time.
Physical dependence and tolerance are normal physiology. Addiction is a disorder that is damaging and requires treatment.
When a patient switches from an addictive opioid to successful buprenorphine treatment, the addictive behavior often stops. In part due to buprenorphine’s long duration of action, patients do not have physical cravings prior to taking their daily dose. The drug seeking behavior ends. Patients; regain control over drug use, compulsive use ends, they are no longer using despite harm, and many patients report no cravings. Thus all of the hallmarks of addiction disappear with successful buprenorphine treatment.
Therefore, one is not trading one addiction for another addiction. They have traded a life-threatening situation (addiction) for a daily inconvenience of needing to take a medication (physical dependence), as some would a vitamin. Yes, the physical dependence to opioids still remains, but that is a vast improvement over addiction, is not life-threatening, and it can easily be managed medically. It’s also important to note that the physical dependence pre-existed the buprenorphine treatment and was not caused by it.
Addiction is a brain disease that affects behavior. This addictive behavior can be devastating to the patient and their loved ones. It’s not the need to take a medication that is the problem, many people need to take a medication, but rather it is the compulsive addictive behavior to keep taking it despite doing harm to one’s self or loved ones that need to stop. Whether or not the person takes a medication to help achieve this shouldn’t matter to anyone. If a medication helps stop the damaging addictive behavior, then that is successful treatment and not switching one addiction for another.
Why is counseling an important tool in the treatment process?
Physical connections create pathways in the brain that can be altered when we learn something new. These changes to the brain can be seen with medical imagery. With long-term difficult things like learning to play a musical instrument, these changes can be permanent. Addiction is a learned behavior that changes the brain as well. The brain becomes conditioned to want the substance. Through counseling and other behavioral modification, we can actually, in some cases, change the brain physically. By changing our environment, starting a new job, new hobbies and friends, all will alter our brain in some way. It is possible to undo some of the changes that occurred while addicted. Therapy will recondition the brain closer to pre-addiction status. This will better prepare the patient for a time when they may no longer require medication.
Medication alone can reduce cravings and withdrawal, but recovering from an addictive disorder requires a rewiring of the brain and medication alone is not enough. Attention to eliminating things in life that cause stress or depression will help minimize the chance of relapse. Disassociating with friends who are in active addiction can be difficult but very necessary. An experienced counselor/therapist will be able to teach other techniques that will further help undo some of the brain changes and conditioned learning that occurred while becoming and once addicted.
It is important to find a counselor/therapist that is skilled in treating patients that employ medications in their treatment. Some counselors still dismiss the science behind addiction medicine because they may have been able to successfully end their addiction without it. They sometimes zealously focus on the singular approach that helped them and as a result may not be providing the best care for an individual who may require medication. It pays to find a counselor with a modern evidence-based philosophy of addiction treatment.
Counseling/therapy helps the patient rebuild relationships, repair finances, get a job, assume family responsibilities, decrease stress, anxiety, and depression, and helps the patient make other meaningful changes in their lives that will allow them to achieve and maintain addiction remission.
How often am I going to be seen?
Per current guidelines, we see clients weekly for the first month. (This is important to closely monitor your response and compliance to the treatment, adjust medications, and observe for any unforeseen side effects.) After the first month of your treatment, our goal is to start seeing you bi-weekly, and eventually monthly if you demonstrate that you are stable on your dose of buprenorphine and confidence in you abstinence from opioids. All treatment plans are personally tailored to each individual patient and your visits will ultimately be at the discretion of your doctor and councilors.
How soon can a work schedule be resumed?
It is recommended to take the first day of treatment off. Some are able to work even on Day One. Certainly, after Day One, you should be able to work with greater attentiveness and clarity than before starting treatment. The transition from addictive substance to Buprenorphine is usually painless and most patients experience no adverse physical effects. In fact, most say that they feel normal again like they were never on drugs at all.
Is my medical information confidential?
The confidentiality of alcohol and drug dependence patient records maintained by a practice/program are protected by federal law and regulations. Generally, the practice/program may not say to a person outside the practice/program that a patient attends the practice/program, or disclose any information identifying a patient as being alcohol or drug dependent unless:
The patient consents in writing;
The disclosure is allowed by a court order, or
The disclosure is made to medical personnel in a medical emergency or to qualified personnel for research, audit, or practice/program evaluation.
Violation of the federal law and regulations by a practice/program is a crime. Suspected violations may be reported to appropriate authorities in accordance with federal regulations.
Federal law and regulations do not protect any information about a crime committed by a patient either at the practice/program or against any person who works for the practice/program or about any threat to commit such a crime. Federal laws and regulations do not protect any information about suspected child abuse or neglect from being reported under state law to appropriate state or local authorities.
What exactly is Buprenorphine?
Buprenorphine is an opioid medication used to treat opioid addiction in the privacy of a physician’s office. Buprenorphine can be dispensed for take-home use, by prescription. This, in addition to buprenorphine’s pharmacological and safety profile, makes it an attractive treatment for patients addicted to opioids.
Read more about Buprenorphine
The Right Path Helpline
A private and convenient solution when you are seeking addiction help for yourself or a loved one. Speak with a treatment advisor. Calls are Free, Confidential, and with absolutely No Obligation.
(757) 321-0795
Right Path Addiction Treatment Centers are excited to announce we are now accepting Virginia Medicaid for services at our participating offices.
Learn More About Medicaid
Right Path Addiction Centers
Right Path Addiction Treatment Centers proudly works with most major insurance providers.
Call (757) 264-9957 today to see if yours is accepted.
Our Certifications
If you or a loved one need help with addiction, call us today.
Help is Available 24/7. All Calls Are FREE and Confidential. Call our main office (757) 264-9957
Make an Appointment
Right Path Addiction
Treatment Centers
Substance abuse is often the unexpected side effect of improper pain treatment, or repeated, recreational use of prescription pain medications or heroin. Regardless of how dependence begins, once it has developed, it is considered a disease that must be medically treated.
Important Links
Addiction Treatment
Opioid Addiction
Alcohol Addiction
Buprenorphine
Methadone or Buprenorphine (Suboxone)?
Naltrexone
Opiate Withdrawal
Smoking Cessation Program
New Patients
Now Accepting VA Medicaid
Suboxone Treatments Centers VA & NC
Suboxone Doctors Near You
Right Path Blog
Quick Clicks
Buprenorphine Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) Info
Suboxone Film – Is it Right for You?
Suboxone Doctors
Richmond Virginia Suboxone Doctors
Career/Investment Opportunities
Site Map
© Copyright 2019. All Rights Reserved by Right Path • Privacy Policy
Site By Oasis Creative
If you are in a emergency situation, dial 911 immediately.
Facebook
Facebook
LinkedIn
LinkedIn
Menu
Now Accepting VA Medicaid!
Now Accepting VA Medicaid!
We are now accepting VA Medicaid for services at all of our participating
Right Path offices.
Learn More