10 Clever Uses for WD40
Subscribe List an Event or Business Invite a Writer Write for WN Writers Other Locations
list an event 1 million Australian readers every month facebook
10 Clever Uses for WD40
Home > Adelaide > Home Improvement
by Dora Bona (subscribe)
A freelance writer, and amateur photographer Dora also teaches creative writing classes. Check out her website at www.creativejuicy.com
Published June 11th 2011
Since 1958, WD-40 has been a household saviour and favourite multi-purpose problem solver for millions of people across the globe. I'm sure everyone has at least once used it to stop a squeak, make a sticking drawer glide open, or loosen a stuck nut. Initially developed as a rust preventer and de-greaser, there are thousands of other uses for this amazing product, with more and more being discovered every year. If you're a fan, you might even belong to the growingWD-40 fan club, which boasts over 100,000 members (Take that Justin Bieber).
Your own personal genie
First, a little history. Along with only 2 employees, Norm Larsen founded the Rocket Chemical Company in the United States in 1953. He set out to develop a rust-preventing solvent and degreaser for the aerospace industry. On the 40th try they succeeded in creating a 'water-displacement compound'. The name WD-40 stands for 'Water Displacement - 40th try'.
Since it was put in an aerosol can, and made available to the general public in 1958, millions of cans are produced each week in the U.S. alone, and it has become a life-saver and a favourite with families and people from all walks of life.
Here are just 10 not-so-conventional (and some downright weird)uses for WD-40.
Smartphone Photography Class
Craft Beer Walking Safari
Adelaide Mums Group Meetup
Adelaide Crochet Club
Adelaide Mums Photography Group
Food Night Safari Adelaide
1. Removing chewing gum from hair: It's your worst nightmare and if you're a parent who has lived this (as I have) you don't have to run for the scissors (as I did). Simply spray the gummy hair with WD-40 and the gum will easily comb out. Make sure you are in a well ventilated area and avoid contact with the child's eyes.
A real sticky situation
2. Clean toilet bowls: If you think you'll never get the stains from your toilet bowl, then think again. Spray a little WD-40 into the bowl to clean ugly gunk and lime stains. Leave for a few seconds and swish around with a nylon toilet brush. The solvents in WD-40 will help dissolve stains.
3. Remove old decals: You don't need a razor blade to remove old decals, bumper stickers or tape. Just spray with WD-40, wait about 30 seconds and wipe them away. Works on registration stickers like magic.
4. Remove carpet stains: If regular carpet cleaner won't shift stubborn stains from your carpet, spray the stain with WD-40. Wait a minute or two, then use your regular cleaner, or warm soapy water. The stain will disappear. If it's an old stain, you may have to repeat.
5. Prevent wasps from building nests: Wasps love to build nests under your eaves. Spray some WD-40 under all the eaves of your house to stop them.
Prevent a potentially dangerous situation
6. Waterproof your boots or shoes: Keep your boots and shoes from getting soaked through by giving them a coat of WD-40.Simply spray on and wipe over with a clean rag. They'll look as good as new.
7. Relieve the pain of a bee-sting: I don't have the scientific reason, but for fast relief of a bee, wasp or hornet sting, just spray WD-40 directly on the site and it will instantly relieve the ouch.
8. Keep flies off your cows: If flies are tormenting your cows or horses, spray on some WD-40. Flies hate the smell - but be careful not to get it in their eyes.
9. Temporarily relieve joint pain: Not just for creaky doors - WD-40 has been reported to ease the pain of creaky joints.Some arthritis sufferers swear that by spraying on some WD-40 and rubbing it in, it provides temporary relief. Obviously for severe or persistent pain, you should see your healthcare professional.
10. Remove burrs from animal fur: Your horse's mane or tail can become full of burrs which are hard to remove without cutting them out, or tearing their hair. Just spray on some WD-40 and the burrs will slide out.
Those are just some of the more surprising uses for this amazing substance. It's like having your own personal genie to get you out of all kinds of sticky situations.
Great for un-sticking a zipper
You can check out the official 2000 uses for yourself and become a fan. Perhaps you've discovered an unconventional way to use WD-40 yourself and would like to contribute.
Help us improve Click here if you liked this article 143
April Events
May Events
June Events
July Events
August Events
September Events
subscribe to Dora Bona's articles
Share: email facebook twitter
Why? Because sometimes you need to come unstuck
Cost: Around $10 for a 350g aerosol can
Categories
Home Improvement (subscribe)
More articles by Dora Bona
Din Tai Fung Restaurant
25
Rudy's Bar and Grill @ 9th Ave, Manhattan
6
Bistro Lilly
8
The Lemon Detox Program
15
Washington Mews
8
Learn to Sail at All Sail
12
View all articles by Dora Bona
Your business or event? Feature this article
Comments
I loved this article - because I've thought WD was so great for a long time. I recently tried to find out how to re-ink a typewriter ribbon, and it is also used to help the ink stick! Fabulous stuff.
By Sarac1 - reader
Tuesday, 12th of July @ 11:03 pm
Thank you for the feedback! Much appreciated.
By Anonymous
Wednesday, 13th of July @ 11:04 pm
It also cleans stainless steal. Keeps it clean for ages!
By nina.1 - reader
Thursday, 14th of July @ 01:11 am
Wow, this is really cool.
By Carly Ogborne - senior reviewer
Thursday, 28th of July @ 12:44 am
I tried it on the toilet bowl as you suggested and you're right it works a treat! I've been trying to get rid of the stain for ages, and I didn't think I'd be able to. WD40 really is magic stuff.
By lizzy13 - reader
Thursday, 28th of July @ 03:51 am
I wouldn't be without it in my house...
By sherr22 - reader
Thursday, 28th of July @ 04:02 am
It also removes crayon from plastic tables and walls, and also takes off tape marks from when you've hung pictures. Great stuff.
By giovanni - reader
Monday, 1st of August @ 10:36 pm
Articles from other cities
Local Park Exercise Equipment (Brisbane)
Google Art Project Virtual Tours
Take the $20 Restaurant Challenge (Brisbane)
Gordon Studio Glassblowers (Melbourne)
The Reject Shop (Sydney)
Skydiving in Sydney (Sydney)
Royal Manuscripts: The Genius of Illumination Exhibition (London)
Flying Horse - Melbourne CBD (Melbourne)
Mary Cairncross Park (Sunshine Coast)
Tomoya Strathfield - Korean & Japanese Restaurant (Sydney)
Bikram Yoga Manchester (Manchester)
Tuesday Trivia Nights at Fitzy's Fibber Magee (Toowoomba)
Carezza Lake - The Rainbow Lake (Venice)
Dog Friendly Cafes in Melbourne (Melbourne)
5 Delicious Dessert Tables (Sydney)
Robot Overlords - Film Review (Everywhere)
Little Way Restaurant (Perth)
Featured
Food Truck Park - FREE Entry
333
Orana 20s Trivia Night
325
Michael Griffiths: By Request
315
HMS Pinafore
322
Foodi Photoh Classie
Adelaide Photography Group
Craft Beer Walking Tour
Family Portrait Mini-Sessions
Top Events
Fort by Lamplight
72
Easter Open Garden at Sophie's Patch
46
Food Truck Park - FREE Entry
333
What's up with Easter?
33
Semaphore Kite Festival 2019
55
The Maltese Falcon - Live on Stage
558
Lest We Forget XI Anzac Day Concert
319
Barossa Made Market - Vintage Festival
26
Stirling Market Autumnal April
19
South Australia's History Festival
79
( view more events )
Popular Articles
Native Bee BNB Project at Bonython Park
74
Glen Ewin Estate's Garden Wildlife
94
The Sorcerer's Bar
85
Smiling Samoyed Brewery
69
Our Place at Willunga Hill
100
Mia Margarita
52
Osteria Sanso Restaurant
71
Bai Long Store
29
Peter Rabbit Cafe
21
Native Flower Arranging Workshops
35
Categories
ANZAC Day
Easter
School Holidays
April Events
May Events
June Events
July Events
Today
This Weekend
Next Weekend
ANZAC Day
Art
Bars
Beaches
Books and Writing
Cafes
Charity
Cinema
Classical Music
Comedy
Community Events
Courses
Craft Beer
Day Trips
Easter
Escape the City
Exhibitions
Family
Festivals
Film Reviews
Florists
Food and Wine
Free
Fun Runs
Indoor
Kids
Lists
Long Weekend
Markets
Melbourne Cup
Music
Nightlife
Outdoor
Parks
Picnic Spots
Playgrounds
Public Lectures
Pubs
Queens Birthday
Questions
Rainy Day
Remembrance Day
Restaurants
Romantic
School Holidays
Shopping
Sport
Theatre
Walks
Win Stuff
Spring
( more categories )
Lists
Top May Events 2019 - Adelaide
23
Top Easter Events 2019 - Adelaide
10
What's on in Adelaide – April 2019
36
( view more lists )
Questions
Where are Adelaide's Best Picnic Spots?
46
What's the Best Street Food at the Adelaide Central Market?
212
Where are Ghost Signs in South Australia?
159
( view more questions )
view mobile site | write for weekendnotes | login | settings | writer page | contact us | advertise | link
Copyright © 2012-2019 OatLabs ABN: 18113479226
[privacy policy] [anti spam policy] [terms and conditions]