The Ideal Diet for Hemorrhoids Sufferers - Health Life Mag
Health Life Mag
Diseases
Symptoms
Diagnostics
Remedies
Health
Medicine Questions
(1 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5)
Loading...
HealthLifeMag » Posts » Health » The Ideal Diet for Hemorrhoids Sufferers
The Ideal Diet for Hemorrhoids Sufferers
Foods to Include in a Diet For Hemorrhoids
Foods to Avoid in a Diet For Hemorrhoids
The Ideal Diet For Hemorrhoid Sufferers
Video Diet For The Treatment Of Hemorrhoids
The link between diet and hemorrhoid issues has been well established. Eating a proper diet for hemorrhoids promotes healthier bowel movements that require less internal effort to complete. Conversely, a poor diet can overwork your digestive system and lead to excessive straining during your bathroom visits and in turn further aggravate the condition.
So what constitutes the optimal diet for hemorrhoids sufferers?
1Foods to Include in a Diet For Hemorrhoids
When creating a diet for hemorrhoids, remember these two words – DIETARY FIBER. Dietary fiber is a component of plant-based foods that is indigestible. It is a truly magical substance that has numerous associated health benefits (decreased LDL (bad) cholesterol levels, reduced colon cancer risk, etc…).
Creating a high fiber diet for hemorrhoids doesn’t mean that every food that you eat should be high in fiber. The Institute Of Medicine recommends a daily fiber intake be between 21 and 38 grams daily. These numbers should be used as your daily guideline in creating your diet for hemorrhoids.
Types of Dietary Fiber
Dietary fiber to include in a diet for hemorrhoids comes in two varieties: soluble and insoluble. Both work in two distinct and somewhat counteracting ways and both are very important.
Soluble fiber is exactly what the name implies. It is a form of fiber that changes into a gelatinous substance when it is combined with water. This substance tends to slow down the release of food from the stomach which creates that “full” feeling which in turn can aid in weight control. It has also been shown to prevent the spiking of blood sugar levels and to reduce LDL cholesterol absorption into the bloodstream.
Insoluble fiber is the type that is most beneficial to the hemorrhoid sufferer. This type of fiber does not change significantly with the addition of water (it does absorb water similar to a sponge). It acts like a lubricant within your digestive system by helping facilitate the speedy passage of ingested substances through the body. Also, insoluble fiber has a bulking (adds volume) and softening effect on fecal material. This allows for bowel movements that occur with more regularity and require considerably less exertion to complete. The end result is a significant reduction in hemorrhoidal irritation.
Meal Changes
Let’s take a look at a couple of sample breakfasts to illustrate the dramatic effect a few simple changes can make:
* – Stevia is a fantastic sugar substitute. It is a plant extract that has zero calories and DOES NOT impact blood sugar levels.
As you can see, some basic substitutions can make a world of difference. Not only has the amount of dietary fiber been increased, but the cholesterol and caloric intake levels have dropped as well.
Popular High Fiber Foods
Here is a list of some of the more popular high fiber foods to incorporate into your diet for hemorrhoids. When grocery shopping, It’s a good idea to pay attention to food labels since dietary fiber content is consistently listed.
2Foods to Avoid in a Diet For Hemorrhoids
When building a diet for hemorrhoids, it isn’t so much avoiding the bad foods for hemorrhoids as it is avoiding TOO MUCH of these foods. Eating these foods tends to create harder stools and these stools can cause excessive hemorroidal irritation during bowel movements.
There are two food groups that need special attention:
Fatty Foods – Mainly foods the are high in the “bad” fats (saturated and trans fats). Fatty foods move more slowly internally and create more work for the digestive system. This slower movement though the colon and rectum removes more water from the waste material and creates a drier, harder stool.
Heavily Processed Foods – I cannot think of an instance where processing a food makes it better for you. Food processing tends to remove the good components (fiber) of a particular food and adds back some potentially harmful ingredients (preservatives, colorings, etc…).
The Dark Side of Dietary Fiber
You can have too much of a good thing and fiber is no exception. Since fiber has many beneficial qualities, there is a tendency to overdo it within a diet for hemorrhoids and ingest excessive amounts of fiber-rich foods. This practice can have negative consequences.
First off, soluble fiber generates internal gas pressure while moving through the digestive system. Excessive soluble fiber intake can create extreme gas buildup which can be quite painful and can result in uncontrollable and embarrassing bouts of flatulence.
Also, remember that insoluble fiber DOES NOT CHANGE during the digestion process. Ingesting insoluble fiber in large quantities can cause increased stretching of intestinal tissues and can actually slow down the movement of food particles out of the body.
3The Ideal Diet For Hemorrhoid Sufferers
There is not one specific hemorrhoid diet that is right for everyone, but incorporating the proper amount of fiber daily into your diet is crucial. Generally speaking, the larger the person, the more fiber intake they should have.
Here are some general steps that should help you to achieve the ideal diet to prevent hemorrhoid irritation:
Start by swapping out low fiber for high fiber foods for a single meal as was done in the breakfast example above. Observe any changes with bowel movements and regularity over the following few days.
If the movements are still irregular and abrasive to your hemorrhoids, continue to make changes that gradually increase your fiber intake and repeat the monitoring process. You should eventually find the level of fiber intake that is ideal for you and in turn, create your optimal diet for hemorrhoids.
4Video Diet For The Treatment Of Hemorrhoids
What’s Trending
Swollen lymph nodes in the neck
19981
Chickenpox (varicella virus)
12347
Tuberculosis
5291
Neurosis
3531
What Are Hemorrhoids
3312
Diseases
Symptoms
Diagnostics
Remedies
Health
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Contact
©2016-2018 HealthLifeMag - All Rights Reserved.