The Effects of Grapefruit and its Juice on Certain Drugs - Canada.ca
Skip to main content
Skip to "About government"
Language selection
Français
Government of Canada
Search
Search Canada.ca
Search
Menu
Main Menu
Jobs and the workplace
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business and industry
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
You are here:
Home
Departments and agencies
Health Canada
Services
Healthy Living
It's Your Health
Food and Nutrition
The Effects of Grapefruit and its Juice on Certain Drugs
It's Your Health
(PDF Version - 118 K)
On this page:
The Issue
Background
How Grapefruit and Its Juice React with Certain Medications
Minimizing Your Risk
How the Government of Canada is Protecting Your Health
Need More Info?
Issue
Certain drugs can cause serious or occasionally life-threatening effects if consumed in combination with grapefruit or its juice.
Background
Consuming grapefruit or its juice (fresh or frozen) can increase, or less commonly decrease, the effects of some drugs. There are several substances in grapefruit that interfere with the way your body handles certain drugs.
These effects are known to be caused by the combination of grapefruit and its juice with certain drugs and health products used in the treatment of medical conditions, including, but not limited to:
Angina;
Anxiety;
Cancer;
Convulsions;
Depression;
Erectile dysfunction;
Gastrointestinal reflux;
High blood pressure;
High lipid (cholesterol) levels;
HIV/AIDS;
Infections;
Irregular heart rhythms;
Organ graft rejections; and
Psychotic problems.
Sour oranges, such as Seville, or their juice, may have an effect similar to grapefruit juice. Most other citrus fruits, such as lemons, limes, citrons, naturally sweet oranges and tangerines are not thought to have this effect. However, tangellos, a hybrid of grapefruit, may also interfere with drugs.
How Grapefruit and Its Juice React with Certain Medications
There are substances in grapefruit that can interfere with the way your body absorbs and breaks down (metabolizes) certain drugs. This interference allows a higher amount of the drug than usual to circulate in your bloodstream, which can occasionally result in serious or life-threatening adverse reactions.
As little as one glass of grapefruit juice (8 oz. or 250 mL) can cause an increased blood drug level and the effects can last for three days or more. Therefore, even if you drink the juice in the morning and do not take your medication until bedtime, the level of the drug in your blood could still be affected.
The effects vary from one person to another, from one drug to another, and from one grapefruit juice preparation to another. This results in an unpredictable increase in blood drug level, which in some cases can cause serious effects.
Minimizing Your Risk
Take the following precautions to minimize the risk of adverse effects when consuming grapefruit or its juice:
If you are taking medication for any of the conditions listed above, do not drink grapefruit juice or eat grapefruit in any form until you have talked to your doctor and your pharmacist about the potential for an adverse reaction.
Avoid taking any drug with grapefruit juice until you have talked to your doctor or pharmacist.
Read the labels on foods and natural health products to make sure they do not contain grapefruit or its juice, or Seville oranges.
Always report any adverse drug reaction to your doctor or pharmacist immediately.
How the Government of Canada is Protecting Your Health
Health Canada has issued several communication documents to remind health care providers of possible interactions between grapefruit and drugs. In addition, Health Canada is working with the drug manufacturers whose products are adversely effected by grapefruit, to ensure that the needed information is placed on the product label. A public advisory has been issued on grapefruit and its effect on certain drugs.
Need More Info?
Contact your doctor or pharmacist if you have any concerns about possible interaction between the drug you are taking and grapefruit.
To report all adverse reactions or drug interactions with grapefruit contact:
Adverse Reaction Information Unit
Marketed Health Products Directorate
Health Products and Food Branch
Health Canada, Tunney's Pasture, Locator 0201C1
Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 1B9
Telephone: (613) 957-0337 or Toll-free: 1-866-234-2345
Facsimile: (613) 957-0335 or 1-866-678-6789
or visit our website at Drugs and Health Products
(All information below will be available in the Web version only)
Adverse reactions or drug interactions with grapefruit can also be reported to the following Regional ADR Centres:
British Columbia
BC Regional ADR Centre
c/o BC Drug and Poison
Information Centre
1081 Burrard St.
Vancouver BC V6Z 1Y6
Telephone: 604-806-8625
Fax: 604-806-8262
adr@dpic.bc.ca
Ontario
Ontario Regional ADR Centre
LonDIS Drug Information Centre
London Health Sciences Centre
339 Windermere Rd.
London ON N6A 5A5
Telephone: 519-663-8801
Fax: 519-663-2968
adr@lhsc.on.ca
New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland
Atlantic Regional ADR Centre
Queen Elizabeth II Health
Sciences Centre
Drug Information Centre
Rm. 2421, 1796 Summer St.
Halifax NS B3H 3A7
Telephone: 902-473-7171
Fax: 902-473-8612
rxkls1@qe2-hsc.ns.ca
Saskatchewan
Sask ADR Regional Centre
Dial Access Drug Information Service
College of Pharmacy and Nutrition
University of Saskatchewan
110 Science Place
Saskatoon SK S7N 5C9
Telephone: 306-966-6340 or 800-667-3425
Fax: 306-966-6377
vogt@duke.usask.ca
Québec
Québec Regional ADR Centre
Drug Information Centre
Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montréal
5400, boul. Gouin ouest
Montréal QC, H4J 1C5
Telephone: 514-338-2961 or 888-265-7692
Fax: 514-338-3670
cip.hscm@sympatico.ca
Additional source of information for health care professionals:
The Compendium of Pharmaceuticals and specialities (CPS). Lilac Section: Clin Info-Drug Administration and Grapefruit Juice.
Report a problem or mistake on this page
Please select all that apply:
A link, button or video is not working
It has a spelling mistake
Information is missing
Information is outdated or wrong
Login error when trying to access an account (e.g. My Service Canada Account)
GC Key access
SecureKey Concierge (Banking Credential) access
Personal Access Code (PAC) problems or EI Access Code (AC) problems
Social Insurance Number (SIN) validation problems
Other login error not in this list
I can't find what I'm looking for
Other issue not in this list
Submit
Thank you for your help!
You will not receive a reply. For enquiries, contact us.
Date modified:
2006-12-14
About government
Contact us
Departments and agencies
Public service and military
News
Treaties, laws and regulations
Government-wide reporting
Prime Minister
About government
Open government
About this site
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Top of page