How Do People Get AIDS? (for Teens) - KidsHealth
[Skip to Content]
Search KidsHealth library
Open Search Language Selector
Search Language Selector English Español
en Español
Parents
Kids
Teens
Educators
More for Teens
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Pinterest
Share via Email
KidsHealth /
for Teens
/ How Do People Get AIDS?
How Do People Get AIDS?
');
en español¿Cómo contrae alguien el SIDA?
What Is HIV?
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a
virus
that attacks the immune system. AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) happens after someone has had HIV for many years. In AIDS, the immune system is severely weakened. People with AIDS get serious infections and health problems.
How Does HIV Spread?
HIV spreads when infected blood, semen ("cum") or vaginal fluids enter the body. Because symptoms can be mild at first, people with HIV might not know they're infected. They can spread HIV to others without knowing it.
HIV can spread:
during sex (especially anal sex and vaginal sex)
through sharing needles for injecting drugs or tattooing
by getting stuck with a needle with an infected person's blood on it
HIV also can pass from mother to child during pregnancy, childbirth, or breastfeeding.
HIV does not spread through:
pee, poop, spit, throw-up, or sweat (as long as no blood is present)
coughing or sneezing
holding hands
sharing eating utensils or drinking glasses
How Can I Protect Myself?
The best way to protect yourself from HIV is to not have sex (vaginal, oral, or anal) and not share needles.
If you decide to have sex, reduce your risk of getting HIV by:
using a condom every time you have sex (including vaginal, oral, or anal sex)
getting tested for HIV and making sure all partners do too
reducing the number of sexual partners you have
getting tested and treated for STDs (sexually transmitted diseases); having an STD increases the risk of HIV infection
Understanding how HIV spreads can help you make safer choices about sex. Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about HIV and if you want to get tested.
Reviewed by: Robyn R. Miller, MD
Date reviewed: October 2018
More on this topic for:
Teens
HIV and AIDS
How to Get Tested for HIV
5 Myths About STDs
Can You Get HIV From Having Sex With Someone Who Has AIDS?
Talking to Your Partner About STDs
Telling Your Partner You Have an STD
Talking to Your Partner About Condoms
STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases)
About Birth Control
My Friend Has HIV. How Can I Help?
View more
About Us
Contact Us
Partners
Editorial Policy
Permissions Guidelines
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Visit the Nemours Web site.
Note: All information on TeensHealth® is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- The Nemours Foundation. All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.