Sole, salt water with benefits - Tina Redder - True Food
Home
My story
Autoimmune disorders
The Leaky Gut Syndrome
Start Here
Newsletter & “Soup Days, an easy cleanse for the body” for FREE
my pH list
Food Combining 101
Raw or not Raw [ finding the right balance ]
Privacy Statement
Disclaimer
10 day Online Detox
All Recipes
on Youtube
Blog
Shop
English
Nederlands
Home
My story
Autoimmune disorders
The Leaky Gut Syndrome
Start Here
Newsletter & “Soup Days, an easy cleanse for the body” for FREE
my pH list
Food Combining 101
Raw or not Raw [ finding the right balance ]
Privacy Statement
Disclaimer
10 day Online Detox
All Recipes
on Youtube
Blog
Shop
English
Nederlands
0
Home alkaline	Sole, salt water with benefits
alkalinedetoxDrinks
Sole, salt water with benefits
written by Tina February 2, 2015
Today I have got a great subject for you! Something so simple and effective… Making Sole, salt water with benefits is something that has been around and used for centuries to add the needed minerals and to alkalize the body.
The right minerals keep the body in balance … and balance, that is what we are aiming for. The easiest way to start the day with a well balanced mineral rich body is simply through drinking SOLE, salt water, every day. A daily dose of 1 tsp. to start the day with, add it to a glass of water and your set for a well balanced day. Read here how much water we need plus 9 delicious infused water ideas.
A right mineral balance is the base for a alkaline rich environment and a right pH level in the body. An acidic diet rich in processed sugars, meat and dairy, refined foods, coffee, alcohol, sweeteners and prepackaged foods. A diet too low in alkalizing foods like fresh greens, sprouts, ripe fruit, vegetables and healthy fats. An acidic diet lowers the amount much needed minerals. The body robs itself from these minerals to debunk the acidic attacks.
Without the right amount of minerals nothing works as it should. A mineral deficiency occurs realy fast without any notice. Eating “empty” veggies, seeds and legumes which are grown in an exhausted soil, processed foods, stress, lack of sleep and polution are all of bad influence on the bodies ph balance.
“You can trace every sickness, every disease, and every ailment to a mineral deficiency.” – Dr. Linus Pauling, Nobel price winner
Sole is a solution made of filtered water and Celtic or Himalayan Pink sea salt. The combination of these two creates a complete, mineral rich water. Celtic and Himalayan salt have 84 minerals, all of them necessary for a good functioning body. Magnesium is one of them. One tsp. sole only has 500 g of sodium which is very low and even doable for people who need to follow a low sodium diet. An amount of sodium between 1500 mg and 2500 mg is advised, although most people consume twice as much. The benefits of sole can be enjoyed by everyone, it is alkalizing and lowers the blood pressure. If you keep your overall salt intake low adding a tsp. of sole to your daily salt intake wouldn’t rock the boat. I keep my sodium intake between 1000 and 1500 mg per day. Avoiding processed foods is the best way to keep your salt intake low.
A good quality Celtic and Pink Himalayan sea salt can of course not be compared to regular table salt. Table salt is a combination of sodium and chloride.
By drinking sole, a true alkalizing solution you can easily re balance the bodies pH level. The composition of sole is very unique and very effective. By mixing water and Celtic sea salt we create a electrolyte rich solution. Now back to school, a little chemistry….
An electrolyte is a substance that ionizes when dissolved in water creating a charged molecule. .
Please do not ask me why or how, chemistry was not one of my strong points!
The positive ions of the salt and negative ions of the water create a new charged molecule which is easily absorbed by the body. It also supports communication between cells in the body for an optimal functioning.
Drinking enough water, and enough is more than you would think, is very important for our all over health. Read HERE how much and why we need this amount of water. Keeping a well balanced mineral content is just as important and works the best in a clean hydrated body. ,
One completes the other making a beautiful whole.
Sole is so easy to make and truly affordable.
Ingredients,
Celtic or Himalayan Pink sea salt, 1/3 of the solution
filtered water, 2/3 of the solution
You make the sole by filling a glass jar for 1/3 with the salt and 2/3 of filtered water.
Shake shake shake! There wil always be a part of the salt on the bodem of the jar which will not desolve. The solution is saturated and the sole is almost ready to be used. Leave it to sit for a few hours and you will have a nice clear solution.
A little more info on the Celtic sea salt. Why is it so special?!
Celtic sea salt originates from the Bretagne, France, where the original salt swamps landscaped by the ancient people the Celts lay. The sea salt dries up in the sun on a layer of mineral and trace elements rich clay. The salt takes the mineral complex and stores it which makes this salt a true mineral bomb.
Celtic sea salt can be used for cooking or preparing food, but even better, it can be used for sole. Celtic sea salt is sun dried and has the lowest amount of sodium chloride.
Table salt consist of 2 components ( Sodium & Chloride), while unrefined grey Celtic sea salt and also the pink Himalayan sea salt have 84 minerals and trace elements. Celtic sea salt is not dry, it feels a bit moist, it is unrefined and unwashed. Unwashed is important, that is why all the minerals remain in the salt. Pink Himalayan sea salt can be fine, course or come in large gemstone like rocks.
Rich in,
Chloride
Sulphur
Magnesium
Potassium
Sodium
Calcium
Zinc
Iron
Iodine
Chromium
Table salt?! ( sodium chloride )
Very acidic and so bad for your health. It can contribute to heart disease, high blood pressure, retaining water and kidney problems to name a few. All side effects of using the wrong kind of salt.
Table salt is a hungry unstable molecule that extracts minerals from the body to complete it self. These robbed minerals leave the body through the urine. What a waist. It is a chemical substance, dead, processed and poisonus which makes the body retain water and it overloads the kidney’s.
Too much salt is being consumed and also the worst kind there is. Table salt.
Good quality salts can be used in moderation, like the pretty pink Himalaya sea salt and the grey Celtic sea salt. Also sun and wind dried sea salt is a good choice. The first two are loaded with minerals so the best options.
Do watch out, salt is hidden in everything! All the bread, pasta, crackers, cookies, cereal. Almost anything prepackaged is full of table salt. Organic products are often salted with sea salt, a bit better.
I do hope you do not use any table salt … just swap it for sea salt or the pretty pink stuff! Available at any health food store, online and in most supermarkets. A little change that will make such a huge difference for your health!
So what does Sole do for you?
Sole is great for the digestion, detoxification and for a better sleep. Sole is rich in minerals like chromium, zinc, phosphor and even iodine, these make the skin look young and soft. Sole is naturally anti-bacterial and can help remove bacteria in the body. It also can work as a powerful anti-histamine due to its balancing effects on the body. Rich in magnesium, needed for muscles, also to prevent cramps. Sole also alkalizes the body. The right amount of good quality Sole can balance blood pressure and reduce or avoid problems like varicose veins. Sole’s high mineral content is great for a healthy skin and for hair and nail growth.
The how…
Take a small glass jar and add 1/3 of Celtic or Himalayan sea salt, may be 1/3 of a cup and add 2/3 of a cup clean filtered water. Do not use a metal lid, no metal spoons but plastic or wood.
Shake until the biggest part of the salt is disolved. There will alway be some salt left, it supposed to, that means the water is completely saturated with the salt.
The solution is cloudy at first but after a night in the fridge it will become nice and clear. The muddy parts are also usable. Take with a plastic or wooden spoon, important, 1 tsp. of the sole and add it to a big glass of lukewarm water.
Once a day on an empty stomach.
It has a long shelf life. Keep it covered with a lid.
Good luck!
If you have any questions, let me know! As always, I am not a doctor. There is much evidence of the health benefits of Sole but you should always do your own research before adding something new to your diet.
If you would like to keep this info you can pin the picture below to your Pinterest board,
Tina x
Sole, salt water with benefits was last modified: July 7th, 2018 by Tina
Celtic salthimalayan saltsaltsole
0 comment
1
Facebook Twitter Google + Pinterest
previous post
One day detox, try it!
next post
Strawberry Chocolate Hearts
You may also like
Super Green Broccoli Dip
August 29, 2014
Pho inspired Noodle Soup [ vegan ]
April 25, 2018
Homemade Almond milk
October 2, 2012
Raspberry Turnip Greens Smoothie
April 26, 2013
Salad to Go [ lunch in a...
October 29, 2012
Pink Juice
October 2, 2012
Miso Dressing [ rainbow salad prep ]
April 3, 2018
Alkalizing snacks to curb those cravings
April 2, 2014
Mango Basil Dressing
July 19, 2016
Easy Liver Detox
May 2, 2014
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Recipe Rating
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
Hi …
Soup Days for weight loss, energy and better digestion.
Join my newsletter and get "Soup Days, an easy cleanse for the body" delivered in your mailbox. Click on the picture above ...
Popular Posts
Gluten Free Multigrain Bread
Kale Chips 2 ways [ oil free ]
Vegan party food ideas
Blueberry Oat Crumble Squares [ gluten free low fat]
Raw Coconut Bounty bars with chocolate
10 days raw alkaline detox online
Join me for a 10 day Raw Alkaline Detox! Also for newbies, are you in!?
Click on the picture for more info ...
Keep in touch
Facebook Instagram Pinterest Youtube Email
My Youtube
Hi …
Facebook
PME/PMI, entreprise, économie, Emploi et petites annonces Burkina Faso
Soup Days
Join my newsletter and get "Soup Days, an easy cleanse for the body" delivered in your mailbox for FREE
Click on the picture above ...
Follow me on Instagram
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Youtube
© Copyright @ 2017 tinasrawalkalinediet.com . All Right Reserved .
Back To Top
English
Nederlands (Dutch)