After Wisdom Tooth Removal Hastings MN | Home Care
Skip to main content
Open Menu
Open Phone Menu Twin Cities Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery
×
Office Numbers
Hastings Office
651-437-3262Apple Valley Office
952-432-1514Roseville Office
651-488-9884Maplewood Office
651-770-7703
Hastings • Apple Valley • Roseville • Maplewood • All Offices Open M–F 8:00am – 3:30pm
Call Today
Hastings Office 651-437-3262
Apple Valley Office 952-432-1514
Roseville Office 651-488-9884
Maplewood Office 651-770-7703
Home
Patient Information
Introduction
Why Choose Our Practice
Scheduling
First Visit
Patient Registration
Insurance
Privacy Policy
Online Videos
Financial Policy
Dental Emergencies
Patient Testimonials
Local Dentist Feedback
Oral Surgery Services
Bone Grafting
Jaw Bone Health
Jaw Bone Loss and Deterioration
About Bone Grafting
Ridge Augmentation
Sinus Lift
Nerve Repositioning
Socket Preservation
Wisdom Teeth
Impacted Wisdom Teeth
Wisdom Teeth Removal
After Extraction of Wisdom Teeth
Jaw Surgery
Facial Trauma
Tooth Extractions
Pre-Prosthetic Surgery
Oral Pathology
Sleep Apnea
Bone Morphogenetic Protein
Exposure of Impacted Teeth
3D Imaging
Anesthesia
Dental Implants
Replacing Missing Teeth
Overview of Implant Placement
Missing All Upper or Lower Teeth
Bone Grafting for Implants
Implant Supported Overdenture
Teeth-in-an-Hour
After Implant Placement
Cost of Dental Implants
Meet Us
Meet Dr. Jenny
Meet Dr. Downie
Meet Dr. Koehn
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Dental Implant Surgery
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
After Impacted Tooth Exposure
After Extractions
After Multiple Extractions
Referring Doctors
Referral Form
Links of Interest
Contact Us
Hastings Office
Apple Valley Office
Roseville Office
Maplewood Office
Jason E. Jenny, DDS•Michael J. Downie, DDS, MD•Christopher E. Koehn, DDS
Home
/
Surgical Instructions
/ After Wisdom Tooth Removal
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
Home Instructions After Wisdom Teeth Extraction
The removal of impacted wisdom teeth is a serious surgical procedure. Post-operative care is very important. Unnecessary pain and complications such as infection and swelling can be minimized if these instructions are followed carefully.
Immediately Following Surgery
The gauze pad placed over the surgical area should be kept in place for a half hour. After this time, the gauze pad should be removed and discarded.
Vigorous mouth rinsing and/or touching the wound area following surgery should be avoided. This may initiate bleeding by causing the blood clot that has formed to become dislodged.
Take the prescribed pain medications as soon as you begin to feel discomfort. This will usually coincide with the local anesthetic becoming diminished.
Restrict your activities the day of surgery and resume normal activity when you feel comfortable.
Place ice packs to the sides of your face where surgery was performed. Refer to the section on swelling for a more thorough explanation.
Bleeding
A certain amount of bleeding is to be expected following surgery. Slight bleeding, oozing, or redness in the saliva is not uncommon. Excessive bleeding may be controlled by first rinsing or wiping any old clots from your mouth, then placing a gauze pad over the area and biting firmly for thirty minutes. Repeat if necessary. If bleeding continues, bite on a moistened black tea bag for thirty minutes. The tannic acid in the black tea helps to form a clot by contracting bleeding vessels. To minimize further bleeding, do not become excited, sit upright, and avoid exercise. If bleeding does not subside, call our office for further instructions.
Swelling
The swelling that is normally expected is usually proportional to the surgery involved. Swelling around the mouth, cheeks, eyes, and sides of the face is not uncommon. This is the body’s normal reaction to surgery and eventual repair. The swelling will not become apparent until the day following surgery and will not reach its maximum until 2-3 days post-operatively. However, the swelling may be minimized by the immediate use of ice packs. Two baggies filled with ice, or ice packs, should be applied to the sides of the face where surgery was performed. The ice packs should be left on continuously while you are awake. After 36 hours, ice has no beneficial effect. If swelling or jaw stiffness has persisted for several days, there is no cause for alarm. This is a normal reaction to surgery. Thirty-six hours following surgery, the application of moist heat to the sides of the face is beneficial in reducing the size of the swelling.
Pain
For moderate pain, one or two tablets of Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol may be taken every 6 hours, not to exceed 4000mg daily. Ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) may be taken instead of Tylenol. Ibuprofen bought over the counter comes in 200 mg tablets: 2-3 tablets may be taken four times daily, not to exceed 3200mg daily for an adult. Consult our practice for individuals under 18.
For severe pain, the prescribed medication should be taken as directed. Do not take any of the above medication if you are allergic to them, or have been instructed by your doctor not to take it. Do not drive an automobile or work around machinery. Avoid alcoholic beverages. Pain or discomfort following surgery should subside more and more every day. If pain persists, it may require attention and you should call the office.
Diet
After general anesthetic or IV sedation only liquids should initially be consumed. Drink from a glass and do not use straws. The sucking motion can cause more bleeding by dislodging the blood clot. You may eat anything soft by chewing away from the surgical sites. A high calorie, high protein intake is very important. Our staff can provide suggested diet instructions. Nourishment should be taken regularly. You should prevent dehydration by taking fluids regularly. Your food intake will be limited for the first few days. You should compensate for this by increasing your fluid intake. At least 5-6 glasses of liquid should be taken daily. Try not to miss any meals. You will feel better, have more strength, less discomfort and heal faster if you continue to eat.
CAUTION: If you suddenly sit up or stand from a lying position you may become dizzy. If you are lying down following surgery, make sure you sit up for one minute before standing.
Keep the mouth clean
No rinsing of any kind should be performed until the day following surgery. The day after surgery you should begin rinsing at least 5-6 times a day, especially after eating, with a teaspoon of salt mixed into one cup of warm water.
Discoloration
In some cases, discoloration of the skin follows swelling. The development of black, blue, green, or yellow discoloration is due to blood spreading beneath the tissues. This is a normal post-operative occurrence, which may occur 2-3 days post-operatively. Moist heat applied to the area may speed up the removal of the discoloration.
Antibiotics
If you have been placed on antibiotics, take the tablets or liquid as directed. Antibiotics will be given to help prevent infection. Discontinue antibiotic use in the event of a rash or any other unfavorable reaction and contact our office immediately. Call the office if you have any questions.
Nausea and Vomiting
In the event of nausea and/or vomiting following surgery, do not take anything by mouth for at least an hour, including the prescribed medicine. You should then sip on coke, tea, or ginger ale. You should sip slowly over a fifteen-minute period. When the nausea subsides you can begin taking solid foods and the prescribed medicine.
Other Complications
If numbness of the lip, chin, or tongue occurs there is no cause for alarm. As reviewed in your consultation, this is usually temporary in nature. You should be aware that if your lip or tongue is numb, you could bite it and not feel the sensation. Call Drs. Jenny, Downie or Koehn if you have any questions.
Slight elevation of temperature immediately following surgery is not uncommon. If the temperature persists, notify the office. Tylenol or ibuprofen should be taken to reduce the fever.
You should be careful going from the lying down position to standing. You could get light headed from low blood sugar or medications. Before standing up, you should sit for one minute before getting up.
Occasionally, patients may feel hard projections in the mouth with their tongue. They are not roots; they are the bony walls which supported the tooth. These projections usually smooth out spontaneously. If not, they can be removed by Drs. Jenny, Downie or Koehn.
If the corners of your mouth are stretched, they may dry out and crack. Your lips should be kept moist with an ointment such as vaseline.
Sore throats and pain when swallowing are not uncommon. The muscles get swollen. The normal act of swallowing can then become painful. This will subside in 2-3 days.
Stiffness (Trismus) of the jaw muscles may cause difficulty in opening your mouth for a few days following surgery. This is a normal post-operative event which will resolve in time.
Finally
Sutures are placed in the area of surgery to minimize post-operative bleeding and to help healing. Sometimes they become dislodged. This is no cause for alarm. Just remove the suture from your mouth and discard it. The sutures will be removed approximately one week after surgery. The removal of sutures requires no anesthesia or needles. It takes only a minute or so, and there is usually no discomfort associated with this procedure.
The pain and swelling should subside more and more each day following surgery. If your post-operative pain or swelling worsens or unusual symptoms occur, call our office for instructions.
There will be a void where the tooth was removed. The void will fill in with new tissue gradually over the next month. In the meantime, the area should be kept clean, especially after meals, with salt water rinses or a toothbrush.
Your case is unique, no two mouths are alike. Discuss any problems with the trained experts best able to effectively help you: Drs. Jenny, Downie or Koehn or your family dentist.
Brushing your teeth is okay – just be gentle at the surgical sites.
A dry socket is when the blood clot gets dislodged prematurely from the tooth socket. Symptoms of pain at the surgical site and even pain near the ear may occur 2-3 days following surgery. Call the office if this occurs.
If you are involved in regular exercise, be aware that your normal nourishment intake is reduced. Exercise may weaken you. If you get light headed, stop exercising.
Surgical Instructions
Before Anesthesia
After Dental Implant Surgery
After Wisdom Tooth Removal
After Impacted Tooth Exposure
After Extractions
After Multiple Extractions
Jason E. Jenny, DDS•Michael J. Downie, DDS, MD•Christopher E. Koehn, DDS
Hastings Office
925 Hwy 55, Ste 202
Hastings, MN 55033
Hastings Office Phone Number 651-437-3262
Map & Directions
Apple Valley Office
14635 Pennock Avenue, Ste 250
Apple Valley, MN 55124
Apple Valley Office Phone Number 952-432-1514
Map & Directions
Roseville Office
1790 N. Lexington Avenue
Roseville, MN 55113
Roseville Office Phone Number 651-488-9884
Map & Directions
Maplewood Office
1655 Beam Avenue, Ste 208
Maplewood, MN 55109
Maplewood Office Phone Number 651-770-7703
Map & Directions
Offering Dental Implants•Implant Supported Overdenture•After Wisdom Tooth Removal•Anesthesia•Bone Grafting•Tooth Extractions
We proudly serve the greater St. Paul area including
Maplewood Roseville Apple Valley Hasting White Bear Lake Eagan Lakeville St Paul Minneapolis
Home
Patient Information
Oral Surgery Services
Dental Implants
Meet Us
Surgical Instructions
Referring Doctors
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Oral Surgery Website Design by PBHS © 2019
Close Menu
Close Menu
Search
Meet UsContact UsRegister Online