Genetic Testing and Family History | Fox Chase Cancer Center - Philadelphia, PA
Temple Health
Lewis Katz School of Medicine
MyFoxChase Login

Search form
Search
Fox Chase Cancer Center - Philadelphia, PA
MENU
About
Locations
Contact Us
Giving
MyFoxChase Login
Find a Doctor
Request Appointment
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University
Clinical Care
Why Choose Fox Chase
Cancer Types & Conditions
Prevention & Screening
Support
Clinical Trials
Departments
Patient Stories
Research & Training
Overview
Find a Scientist
Research Programs
Translational Medicine
Clinical Research
Facilities
Training & Education
For Patients & Visitors
Appointments
Insurance & Financial Information
Visitor Information
Locations
Partners
For Healthcare Professionals
Refer a Patient
Key Account Managers
Care Connect for Physicians
Continuing Education
Resources
Careers
ONC eNewsletter
For Community
Volunteer
Community Outreach
Community Health
Patient and Family Advisory Council
Walk & Run Events
888-FOX-CHASE
About
Blog
History
Leadership
Administrative Leaders
Clinical Leaders
Research Leaders
External Advisory Committee
Administrative Offices
R&D Alliances
Careers
Care Connect
News & Publications
Events
Locations
Contact Us
Giving
MyFoxChase Login
Find a Doctor
Request Appointment
Call 888-FOX-CHASE
Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University
You are here
Home » Clinical Care » Prevention & Screening » Risk Assessment at Fox Chase Cancer Center
Print Text Size Share This Page
Genetic Testing and Family History
What is genetic testing?
Genetic testing is a blood test that looks for changes, called alterations or mutations, in genes. These changes can cause disease, or place someone at higher risk of getting a certain disease, such as cancer. All cancer starts with gene changes at the cell level. Most of these gene changes are not inherited – about 80 percent of all cancer happens because of damage to cells and their genes acquired over a lifetime.
But, some people can inherit a specific gene change that puts them at risk to get cancer. About 5 to 10 percent of cancers are influenced by an inherited gene change. Genetic testing can tell you if you inherited a gene change that could cause cancer. Our doctors may suggest genetic testing to individuals who have a family history of a particular cancer, or patterns of disease. Genetic testing, as part of cancer risk assessment, is done in specialized laboratories by trained professionals.
Genetic Counselors
Your genetic counselor will review your medical and family history in order to determine the personal and inherited factors that could affect your risk of developing cancer.
The counselor will help you understand the influence of these different risk factors and help to coordinate genetic testing, if appropriate.
How can genetic testing be helpful?
With the help of one of our cancer risk counselors, genetic testing can:
Tell you if you inherited a specific genetic change
Tell you If you did not inherit a specific genetic change
Help explain your risk of getting cancer
Identify what you can do to lower your risk of cancer
If you already have cancer, genetic testing can
Help you with your treatment plan
Help you learn your risk of getting a second type of cancer
Help your family members learn if they have inherited a specific genetic change
Help explain other family members’ test results
How long does it take to get my genetic test results?
Genetic testing can take anywhere from two weeks to several months to complete.
What are multigene panels?
A multigene panel is a genetic test that looks at dozens of genes related to specific or related types of cancer in a single test, through new technology called Next Generation Sequencing. Fox Chase began offering multigene panels to all eligible patients in 2013 and created new education tools to help patients understand these panels. Our team is here to provide support and education to make sure every patient is comfortable with the information they receive from multigene testing.
Some of the most common cancer genetic tests are for the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes related to inherited breast and ovarian cancer, or the Lynch syndrome genes related to inherited colon, stomach, uterine, and ovarian cancers. This type of testing is often costly and testing for more than one genetic syndrome is can be difficult to do, which is why multigene panels can be a way to keep costs down.
Multigene panels can also test for more recently-discovered genes that may have been too expensive to test for in the past. Patients who have had negative genetic testing in the past may want to consider further testing with a multigene panel.
But there are some drawbacks of multigene panels. One challenge comes with the discovery of new genes, about which the medical community has little information. Multigene panels also carry a higher possibility of an unclear test result called a genetic variant of uncertain significance. This type of result is often too difficult for doctors to interpret for healthy family members.
We continue to offer syndrome-specific testing because this type of test has the lowest possibility of an unclear result, and is sometimes faster, which is important for cancer patients who need genetic testing information to help shape their treatment. If you’re unsure about whether a multigene panel is right for you, our genetic counselors are here to help. Our Risk Assessment Program offers genetic counseling to patients with a personal or family history of cancer. They will review your testing options, so you can make a decision that’s right for you and your family.
Related Articles
10 Things You Should Know About At-Home Genetic Tests for...
Genetic Testing May Give Answers, but May Also Leave...
What is Genetic Testing?
Prevention & Screening
Screening Services
Colonoscopy
Risk Assessment at Fox Chase Cancer Center
Genetics and Risk Assessment
Risk Assessment Study Opportunities
Genetic Testing and Family History
Cancer Syndromes
Breast and ovarian cancer syndromes
Endocrine cancer syndromes
Familial prostate cancer syndromes
Gastrointestinal cancer syndromes
Kidney cancer syndromes
Skin cancer syndromes
Risk Factors
Inherited Cancer
Adrenal Tumors
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Gynecologic Cancer
Kidney Cancer
Neuroendocrine Tumors
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Prostate Cancer
Sarcoma
Skin Cancer
Stomach Cancer
Thyroid Cancer
The Risk Assessment Team
High Risk Cancer Clinics
Breast and Ovarian Clinics
Gastrointestinal Risk Assessment
Prostate Clinic
Your Risk Assessment Appointment
The Health History Questionnaire
Diagnostic Imaging
Doctors & Care Team
Risk Assessment Appointments
Call the Fox Chase Cancer Center
Risk Assessment Program today
at 877-627-9684.
Request online
Risk Assessment Patient Stories
Read stories
of
RAP Participants
Connect with Fox Chase
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
Flickr
YouTube
Contact Fox Chase:
1-888-FOX-CHASE
(1-888-369-2427)
Main Campus
333 Cottman Avenue
Philadelphia, PA 19111-2497
View All Locations
Resources:
Appointments
Careers
Contact Us
Online Hospital Bill Pay
Financial Assistance/Charity Care
Giving
MyFoxChase
©2019 Temple University Health System, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Patient Rights | Privacy & Non-Discrimination Notices | TUHS Vendor Policies & Procedures
Temple Health refers to the health, education and research activities carried out by the affiliates of Temple University Health System (TUHS) and by the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University. TUHS neither provides nor controls the provision of health care. All health care is provided by its member organizations or independent health care providers affiliated with TUHS member organizations. Each TUHS member organization is owned and operated pursuant to its governing documents.