STOP 5G WIFI KILLER – NOW! | Julian Rose
Julian Rose
Changing Course for Life, In Defence of Life
STOP 5G WIFI KILLER – NOW!
This Is a Planetary Emergency
A highly dangerous addition to the Electro Magnetic Frequencies that emanate from mobile phone masts, WiFi, Smart Phone, I Pod and all similar electro magnetic technologies, is to be introduced across the world starting at the end of this year (2018) unless we come forward to stop it!
180 scientists and doctors from 35 countries are demanding that the European Commission withhold permission for 5G WiFi until fully independent research is carried out into its safety. However the Commission, under the influence of a powerful consortium of 5G promoters has failed to act on the scientists and doctors advice.
What is 5G and how will it work?
5G is an extension of 2,3 and 4G existing radio frequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMF) already proved to be harmful to humans and the environment. The difference is that 5G uses high frequency extra short ‘millimetre wave’ signals between towers and receiving equipment (cell phones etc.) that will mean millions of new transmitter towers will have to be erected at distances of no more than 10 to 12 houses apart in urban areas. An almost unimaginable increase – which will subject citizens to an unavoidable barrage of electromagnetic pollution every time they walk on the streets.
The pulses given-off operate at a wavelength almost identical to that of the human brain, which allows subliminal messages to be encoded into the transmissions. They will also be at levels of intensity that greatly exceed existing pulses.
In order to maximise the effectiveness and coverage of these signals, a consortium of global corporations operating under the title ‘Space X’, plan to launch 4,425 satellites into low orbit around the Earth as early as 2019. This to be followed soon after by a further 12,000 satellites, in order to provide 360 degree ‘lag-free’ internet to every square inch of Earth. With a further consortium bidding for 4,000 satellites to be also put into orbit – the total comes to just under 20,000.
Space X consortium, led by Elon Musk, plans the first launches to begin at the end of 2018 and continue throughout 2019 and 2020. On March 29th 2018, The US Federal Communications Commission already gave its approval to the first phase of launches, in spite of the fact that it has no mandate to protect public health.
Author and microwave researcher Arthur Firstenberg warns of unprecedented dangers associated with this activity, such as ozone loss; destruction of the Van Allen Belts; global weather disruption; groundwater pollution; space junk; microwave radiation and vandalism of the night sky – all resulting from the vast number of satellites that will encircle the Earth. Kerosene pollution resulting from the hundreds of rocket launches needed to deploy the satellites, will provide another source of toxic pollution.
At present, just 66 satellites provide the signals that supply the global network. The proposed increase is of a completely unprecedented magnitude.
How are people affected by exposure to 5G?
More than 230 scientists and doctors from 41 countries have expressed their “serious concerns” regarding steadily expanding exposure to EMF generated by the electric and wireless devices already in existence – before any additional 5G roll-out. They report that “Numerous recent scientific publications have shown that EMF affects living organisms at levels well below most national and international guidelines.”
These affects include cancer risk, cellular stress, increase in harmful free radicals, genetic damages,
structural and functional changes to the human reproductive system, learning and memory defects, neurological disorders and negative impacts on general well-being in humans. Damage goes well beyond humans, as there is mounting evidence of deleterious affects to both plants and animals.
The World’s largest study ‘National Toxicology Program’ (NTP) revealed statistically significant increases in the incidence of heart and brain cancer in animals exposed to EMF below the ICNIRP
(International Commission on Non Ironising Radiation Protection) guidelines that are followed by most countries. New studies, and several epidemiological investigations – including the latest on mobile phone use and brain cancer risk – confirm that RF-EMF radiation is definitely harmful to humans.
The Europe EM-EMF Guidelines 2016, states “There is strong evidence that long term exposure to certain EMF’s is a risk factor for diseases such as cancers, Alzheimer’s disease and male infertility ..
common electromagnetic hypersensitivity symptoms include headaches, sleep problems, concentration difficulties, depression, lack of energy, fatigue and flu like symptoms.”
The International Scientific Declaration on EHS and multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) Brussels 2015, states “EHS and MCS are sentinel diseases that may create a major public health concern in years to come worldwide – i.e. in all countries operating an unrestricted use of electromagnetic based wireless technologies.” It adds “Inaction is a cost to society and is not an option any more. Primary prevention measures must be adopted and prioritised to directly face and take action to prevent a worldwide epidemic.”
Are any official bodies involved in preventing an unsolicited 5G roll-out?
Under resolution 1815 (Council of Europe, 2011) the Nuremberg Code (1949) and the EU Precautionary Principle , can be found clauses that call for the prohibition of any actions/experiments in the public domain that have not undergone previous controlled trials and/or that represent a potential threat to the health and welfare of the planet and its peoples. However National Governments each set different ‘safety levels’ for 2,3 and 4G emissions, almost all of which have been proved too high to prevent health consequences, including those already mentioned.
It has been observed, correctly, that ‘Safety Guidelines’ protect industry and not health’ – and that current guidelines are obsolete. New independently assessed guidelines/rules are urgently needed, but the telecommunications industry and the corporate bodies that plan the 5G roll-out, are using intense lobbying backed by large financial incentives to try and ensure that they are not blocked from carrying through their plans.
OUR TASK:
As with attempts to introduce life mutating gene modification laboratory technologies (GMO) into the farmlands and foods of the world, so the 5G formula threatens to do the same from the sky. The formula is essentially the same: a war against nature, man and our shared universal spirit of existence.
Every single one of us is in the firing line, and it is only by coming together in a united effort to reverse the process of destruction that we can regain control over our destinies and save our species from extinction. Already vital oxygenating trees are being cut down in cities to remove any possible obstruction to street level 5G signals.
This is a Planetary Emergency. We have less than a year to turn things around. Every voice counts in getting 5G stopped before it starts. Make your voice heard right now!
This document is compiled by Julian Rose
For campaigning, general information and the names of consortiums behind 5G – http://www.stopglobalwifi.org/ and also https://ehtrust.org/wp-content/uploads/Scientist-5G-appeal-2017.pdf. And http://www.cellphonetaskforce.org/planetary-emergency/ the excellent site of Arthur Firstenberg used extensively in compiling this alert.
This entry was posted on Saturday, December 22nd, 2018 at 8:05 pm	and is filed under articles.
Pages
In Defence of Life
Overcoming the Robotic Mind – Why Humanity Must Come Through
Changing Course for Life
Book contents
A Plan
A chapter fragment
Reviews
About the Author
Short biography
Contact author
Buy the book
Julian’s publications and activities
articles
films
interviews
speeches
projects
Links
Waking Times
Activist Post
The Land
Ecocentre ICPPC
FARM
Zero Hedge
GRAIN
Church Farm
Bees action network
Transition Town
The Institute of Science in Society
ICPPC
GMO-free zones in Poland
The Connor Post
Search for:
Overcoming the Robotic Mind – Why Humanity Must Come Through
Buy the book
Tags
action activist agriculture alternative knowledge awakening awareness big brother change consciousness countryside courage creativity deception ecological farming education farming fear food freedom future genetically modified gmo horse illuminati local mind control nature new world order organic Poland politics project religion resistance secret societies seed self determination spirit technology transhumanist truth virtual reality vision war workshops
Julian Rose is proudly powered by WordPress and the Simplicity theme.
Entries (RSS).
This website collects and uses non-identifiable information to analyse site activity to improve the website. You have control over how this information is collected and used.