Vitamin C (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise - CureFacts
Main menu
Sign Up
Log In
Index
Get Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
News about CureFacts
Events
Contact Us
To get clear answers, select a condition, a treatment OR a symptom:
Conditions
Flu
Common Cold
Treatments
Flu shot
Vitamin C
Symptoms
runny nose
sneezing
Back to search results for Vitamin C (supplement) Back
Save Share
0 Results for
Vitamin C
Sorry... No alternatives found
(vitamin)
All categories
vitamin
for
prevention
Prevention and Treatment
Prevention
of
Common Cold
Sorry... No alternatives found
in
Adults
All Ages
Adults
under extreme physical exercise
All populations
under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in healthy Adults under extreme physical exercise
Helpful
Bottom Line
Prevention with Vitamin C supplement (Ascorbic acid tablets). 5 valid study conducted, with 598 individuals. Prevents 1 in 2 Common Cold cases for people under extreme physical excursive (marathon runners, skiers, soldiers). Seems safe.
EVIDENCE | NEEDS MORE TESTING
EFFECTIVENESS | EFFECTIVE
SAFETY | SAFE
Recommendations
Use this treatment under extreme exercise:
It prevents 53% of the Common Cold cases for adults under extreme physical exercise periods. The treatment is also pretty safe.
Doctors Say That
The level of Vitamin C (and other anti-oxidants in the body) decreases during periods of physical stress (for example, during training of athletes and soldiers). Therefore, supplementation (to balance this decrease) makes sense.
Any excess of Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid) is evacuated from our body through the urine. This makes vitamin C pretty safe even in high dosages.
About Vitamin C (vitamin)
Ascorbic Acid tablets
Target Population:
Adults under extreme physical exercise, 16 to 65 years old
Dosage:
Daily dosage of 0.2 gram per day, or more (adjusted to age, gender and body weight).
Goal:
Prevention of Common Cold symptoms
Research Summary
Needs more testing
5 Clinical Studies
598 Adults Tested
Effective
Benefits:
Prevents 1 in 2 cases of Common cold, for people under brief periods of severe physical exercise (marathon runners, skiers, soldiers). May also speed up recovery and reduce severity of colds.
Safe
Risks:
0.2-2 gram of Vitamin C per day seems safe for healthy adults and has no side effects. Doctor consultation is needed for diabetic adults, or when in-taking iron (since Vitamin C increases iron absorption).
Common Cold Overview
Medical problem:
Common Cold (symptoms caused by viral infection of the upper respiratory system).
Symptoms and signs:
Cough, general discomfort, headache, runny nose, sneezing, sore throat, stuffy nose and weakness.
Complications:
Bacterial infections: lung infection, middle ear infection, strep throat, sinus infection.
Other Treatments
Brand Names
Vitamin C (supplement)
Ascoltin
Ascot
C-500 Chewable Tablet
C-Time
Cecon Drops
Centrum Singles - Vitamin C
Cevi-Bid
Sunkist Vitamin C
Vicks Vitamin C Drops
Ester-C
Vasoflex HD
Acerola
Ascocid
Ascor L 500
Ascorbic Acid Quick Melts
Betac
Cemill
Cenolate
Read More
Source:
Cochrane , Systematic Review, 2013
Keep and Share
Save Share
Additional Information
Visitors at this page also visited
Vitamin C for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Treatments for prevention of Common Cold in All Ages
Treatments for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages under extreme physical exercise
Treatments (vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Common Cold in All Ages
Vitamin C for prevention of Medical Conditions in All Ages
Vitamin C for Prevention and Treatment of Medical Conditions in All Ages under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (vitamin) for Prevention and Treatment of Medical Conditions in All Ages
Index
See answers about other medical treatments here.
Choose only effective and safe medical treatments.
Live longer. Enjoy better life quality. Save healthcare costs.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid and L-ascorbic acid, is a vitamin found in food and used as a dietary supplement. As a supplement it is used to treat and prevent scurvy. Evidence does not support use in the general population for the prevention of the common cold. It may be taken by mouth or by injection. It is generally well tolerated. Vitamin C was discovered in 1912, isolated in 1928, and first made in 1933. (source)
Similar pages on this site
L-Xyloascorbic Acid (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Cenolate (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (vitamin) for prevention of Acute nasopharyngitis Infectious disease in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (vitamin) for prevention of a cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Acerola (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Betac (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (vitamin) for prevention of rhinitis in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Vitamin C (vitamin) for prevention of Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Vasoflex HD (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
L-ascorbic acid (vitamin) for prevention of Common Cold in Adults under extreme physical exercise
Good to know
Video
Maher Still ""Not Crazy"" About Vaccinations
HBO's Real Time, 16 October 2009
Learn More...
Post
Timing is everything.
See why, and ask yourself are we ready to take responsibility for our lives and our health.
Learn More...
Article
Want a Diagnosis Tomorrow, Not Next Year? Turn to AI
Megan Molteni, Wired
Learn More...
Book
Hope or Hype / Richard A. Deyo, MD, MPH; Donald L. Patrick, PHD, MSPH
Learn why new treatments are not necessarily good for you.
Learn More...
Join CureFacts at:
CureFacts is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
See terms of use and privacy statement. Copyright © 2015-2017 CureFacts. All Rights Reserved.
About
Company
Vision
Mission
Team
News
Events
Investors
Collaborations
Contact
sitemap
Solution
Solution
FAQ
Rating
NLP
QA
Personal Zone
Platform
Treatments
Flu Shot
Vitamin C
Conditions
Flu
Common Cold
Symptoms
Runny Nose
Sneezing
Learn More
Principles
Articles
In the Media
Books
Videos
Blog
Press Room