cold sores Archives - How to Treat Herpes
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
How to Treat Herpes
Home
Contact
Get Rid of Herpes Review
cold sores
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
July 22, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
When most people hear about the word herpes will conjure an image of genital herpes, which is an incurable disease that is transmitted by sexual intercourse and causes blisters. On the other hand, herpes is a family of viruses that is very widespread and can cause many conditions affecting the skin.
An estimate of one out of six people may have some form of herpes in their body either active or inactive. Herpes virus forms include genital herpes, cold sores, chicken pox, mild hepatitis, mononucleosis, and shingles. All these skin conditions are caused by herpes virus family.
There are two similar conditions known as dermatitis herpetiformis and herpes gestationis that both produce herpes-like blisters on the skin but are not brought about the herpes virus. Many diseases that are brought by herpes may differ from one another but they all have common traits: very contagious, can survive for long period of time, not curable.
There are around 30 million Americans who are infected with HSV1 and despite numerous researches and studies over many years there has been small success in developing a cure or an effective vaccine.
Many viruses of the herpes family do not recur after the initial outbreak like chicken pox for example. On the other hand, all herpes viruses, when not active, stay dormant in the nerve tissues and escaping detection by immune system.
It is still unclear why and how latent herpes virus suddenly triggers into active infection. On the other hand, it is known that some stresses to the immune system trigger an outbreak. These stresses may include menstruation, over exposure to sunlight, poor diet, emotional stress, injury, illness, and so on. A strong immune system lessens outbreak occurrences, though outbreaks may trigger throughout your life. Studies have proven that shingles and chicken pox have recurrence of zero while HSV1 has recurrence of 14% and HSV2 has 60%.
The most common cause of genital infections is HSV2 and HSV1 causes infection on the lips. However, either virus can be transmitted from one location to another. Studies have proven that herpes sores can also trigger other types of infections.
Women with herpes may increase the risk of having cervical cancer and it is crucial that they have cervical smear test every year.
Whether you have been tested for herpes, practicing common sense on how to not to spread it to other people is a good move. For example, avoid kissing other people.
If you are sexually active, then practice safe sex and avoid having sex with any partner who is showing symptoms of an outbreak until such time that the symptoms are gone. While most male genital herpes outbreaks are easily noticed, female genital herpes are hard to notice. In fact, most women with genital herpes do not know that they have it until they transmit the virus to other partner.
If you had herpes before, avoid getting over exhausted or allowing yourself to get stressed. When you are fatigued, the immune system will not function properly and you may be more vulnerable to herpes outbreak recurrences.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cervical cancer, chicken pox, cold sores, dermatitis herpetiformis, facts about herpes, genital herpes, genital herpes facts, gestationis, herpes facts, herpes family, herpes gestationis, herpes outbreaks, herpes virus, herpetiformis, hsv1, hsv2, mild hepatitis, mononucleosis, shingles, stress
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
July 16, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Do you take a good look at the person? Do you ask and look straight in their eyes? Do you inquire about their sex lives? Well, my answer is no, maybe and maybe.
It may be a good idea to ask someone if they’re aware of having genital herpes. The more sexual partners a person has had in their lives, the more likely they’re to be infected by herpes. But these methods are quite insufficient. Did you know that the majority of people who have genital or oral herpes are not aware of it? So how do you explain that? Simple, many oral or genital herpes infected people just don’t have any herpes symptoms, others have some symptoms which are mild enough to confuse them with a rash or a mosquito bite or anything that may cause, redness, swelling, itching, burning and blisters, and some may not even know what herpes symptoms are.
The fact that somebody doesn’t have or recognize herpes symptoms doesn’t mean they don’t have it. About 25% of the US population is infected with genital herpes, with women being more affected than men. Studies have shown that the vast majority (80%-90%) of people who have genital herpes have not been diagnosed with the condition.
According to a recent paper published by Carnegie Mellon University in January 2006, most sexually active teenage girls know almost nothing about sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), except AIDS, until it is too late. Another 2006 study led by Dr. Herbert Kaufman, Boyd Professor of Ophthalmology at Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center in New Orleans, found herpes virus-1 in 98 percent of healthy participants. None of them displayed any symptoms; however they shed the herpes virus in their saliva and tears at least once during the course of the 30-day study. Even though this study didn’t target genital herpes directly, it demonstrates that most people can be totally unaware of carrying the virus and being infected by herpes.
Shed or shedding means that the virus is present on the skin and ready to be transmitted. Herpes is transmitted through skin contact 98% of the time. Studies have shown that shedding may occur in almost 40% of HSV-2 (usually associated with genital herpes) infected people. Asymptomatic viral shedding may last 1 to 5 days, meaning that a person can be contagious without presenting any symptoms at the time. The average duration of each period of viral shedding has been assessed through laboratory studies but is just an estimate.
So how can you tell for a fact if someone has genital herpes? The only way to know is to look at blood, PCR or swab test results. Swab and PCR tests are very accurate when they detect herpes. However, if a test was performed late or delivered to the lab late, it may return a false negative result. Western blot test, a blood test, is the most accurate test available but may return a false negative if the person tested was first infected within the past 3 months. So it is not easy to know if a person has genital herpes or not
One last consideration, herpes Simplex 1 or HSV-1 usually causes oral herpes and cold sores and herpes simplex-2, genital herpes. But herpes virus-1 genital herpes is becoming more and more prevalent nowadays. It is mostly transmitted during oral sex from a person who’s having an oral herpes infection with or without symptoms. So if getting genital herpes is a concern to you, you should consider oral herpes as well as genital herpes when asking a partner.
As you can see, it is very difficult to assess if a partner has genital herpes. There are no proven products to prevent genital herpes transmission at the moment. Some are currently undergoing testing for FDA approval and will hopefully be marketed soon. In the meanwhile, the best option is using a condom.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, fda, genital herpes, herpes simplex 1, herpes simplex 2, hsv1, pcr, sex life, sexual partner, swab test
How to Treat Herpes inside the Mouth
June 3, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Cold sores are itchy and small painful blisters that develop on the mouth and around the lips. This is due to herpes simplex virus and this is a lifetime disease. Once the virus infects a person, it stays on his body for the rest of his life. The virus stays within the nerve endings waiting to be reactivated and cause symptoms again. This is a viral infection that antibiotics and other medicines cannot do anything.
Depending on the infection, cold sores are serious if ignored at the early stage. The worse may happen when the virus invades inside the mouth. Usually, blisters grow in hard and soft palate, throat, gums, buccal lining, and tongue. If this happens, then worse symptoms may associate the infection. The inside of the mouth is usually not affected unless there are widespread lesions outside the mouth. When the virus infect oral cavity, system infection can happen that can result to malaise, fever, and headache. Eating problem and dehydration can also associate the disease.
Treatment
With the information mentioned earlier, it is rational that treatment should be done. Here are some ways on how to manage and treat cold sores.
Medication – recent achievement in the field of medicine is antivirus drugs. Note that antiviral drugs should be reserved as aggressive form of treatment. Additionally, signs and symptoms can be relieved by taking certain medications to deal with them. For example, analgesics can be taken in case of intolerable pain.
Ointment – applying topical ointment or cream can aid in decreasing the effects of the blisters and lesions.
Gargle and Rinse – sores inside the mouth is very painful and discomforting. By gargling and rinsing, the mouth can be relieved from the discomfort. Gargling cold water can also reduce the pain inside the mouth. You should stay away from hot foods or drinks because they might irritate the sores further. You should also not eat salty and spicy food, which can lead to more discomfort.
Lysine – this is an amino acid and is a part of building blocks of protein that is essential for maintaining and repairing the integrity of connective tissues. Lysine comes in supplement or ointment form. The supplement can sustain the normal level of lysine while the ointment can be applied on the blisters.
These are just some treatments and methods on how you can treat cold sores inside the mouth. By applying these tips, you can relieve the signs and symptoms of cold sores and prevent its future recurrence.
Filed Under: Cold Sores, Herpes Articles, Natural Treatment Tagged With: blisters, canker sore, cold sores, gargle and rinse, herpes simplex virus, lysine, ointment, topical cream
Herpes Simplex Virus – Seven Myths and Facts
May 22, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Having herpes simplex virus or blisters in America is not a new thing. Around 85 million people have suffered from this disease at some point in their lives. Interestingly, most of them had this disease when there were less than 3 years of age. Herpes spreads fast because whenever a baby is kissed by his or her relatives, the virus automatically transmits on the skin.
You have seen how easy it is to get infected by herpes? This is why it is so popular. When something is popular, it is not surprising that people are debating over it. This debate usually gives birth to some myths, which should be clarified through educating people with facts as eliminating myths is important for protecting ourselves. In this short article, we will talk about 7 myths and facts regarding herpes.
Myth: Herpes simplex virus only attacks certain types of people.
Fact: There are no such certain types of people who are targeted by herpes virus. It is very common and it can happen to anyone.
Myth: It only infects people who do not keep themselves clean or not having personal hygiene.
Fact: Herpes virus has nothing to do with dirt or cleanliness. Herpes can attack anyone who is sexually active.
Myth: Herpes that occur on mouth are not the same as the sores in genital area.
Fact: Both these cold sores are actually the same. The cold sores on the mouth get transmitted to the genital area through oral or genital sex. This is the one of the main causes of genital herpes.
Myth: People will know that they are currently having herpes.
Fact: This is an insane myth as it does not allow people to realize that they are already having it. It is not important that you come to know when you are suffering from herpes. Around 80% of people do not even know that have herpes as there are mild symptoms or no symptoms at all.
Myth: Herpes passes through blood.
Fact: This is not true as herpes is not something that lives in the blood. Whether it is oral or genital herpes, it will pass through direct skin contact.
Myth 6: A cervical smear test or STI check is done for diagnosing herpes only.
Fact: Routine sexual health checks and cervical smear tests are not for diagnosing herpes. Tests for diagnosing herpes are done only when a person has some symptoms of herpes.
Myth: People who had or are having herpes cannot have kids.
Fact: Herpes simplex virus does not affect that fertility of a man or woman. On the other hand, sometimes the disease may pass to the infant but it is rare and can be prevented by informing the doctor that you or your partner carrier herpes before the delivery.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, facts, genital herpes, herpes simplex virus, hsv 1, hsv 2, myths
Educate Yourself! Here are Facts About Herpes
January 14, 2014 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Herpes Simplex Virus is a common STD (Sexually Transmitted Disease). Like mentioned in one of my articles, herpes has two types, which are HSV1 and HSV2. The symptoms of HSV1 usually appear around the face or mouth while HSV2 appears on the genital area. Nevertheless, both types can be passed on to someone else to the facial or genital areas. This virus is often spread through sores. Usually, the experience is itching and tingling before a person notice anything on the skin.
Spreading Herpes Virus
Herpes can be transmitted in a lot of ways. It can be transmitted by kissing, touching, and caressing the infected parts. When kissing a person, the herpes virus can be transferred, resulting the person you have kissed develop herpes on the kissed area. In additional, herpes virus can be transmitted through sexual contact with the infected areas whether vaginal, oral, and anal sex. HSV1 and HSV2 can be transmitted to skin contact as well.
Herpes is usually transmitted to partners via vaginal or anal intercourse where one of them has genital herpes. If you have cold sores and put your mouth on the genital areas of your partner for oral intercourse, then your partner will become infected with herpes virus on their genital areas. This gives us the conclusion to avoid oral intercourse when your partner carries herpes on his or her facial areas. Doctors or health care providers would usually advise those who have been diagnosed with herpes to consider themselves as infectious not until the last ulcer is treated.
In some cases, one of the partners may have signs of herpes in spite of being in a long-term relationship. This is usually attributed to one or both partners carrying herpes without knowing. Herpes virus can also be transmitted from mother to baby during pregnancy or birth. On the other hand, the chance of transmitting herpes to the baby is very small because the antibodies of the mother will protect the baby in the womb.
Cure for Herpes
There are a lot of treatments for herpes. Many prescription drugs speed up the healing of the lesions. Also, the prescription drugs help to lessen the frequency and severity of the recurrences. The prescription drugs can be taken every day like health supplements when outbreaks happen. Some of the prescription drugs are expensive in some countries and usually have side effects that why many people are resorting to ways on how to treat herpes naturally.
In general, lifestyle changes and healthy diet can help deal with herpes by reinforcing the immune system to fight the virus. Your diet should have rich in quality lysine, low in arginine, rich in vitamins (chelated zinc, vitamin C, and bioflavonoid). Always have a good rest, consume fresh fruits and vegetables, and exercise regularly to strengthen the immune system.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: cold sores, facts about herpes, genital herpes, herpes facts, hsv1, hsv2, sexual intercourse, std
What is Herpes?
December 21, 2013 By Howtotreatherpes Leave a Comment
Genital herpes is an infection caused by herpes simplex virus or HSV. This is a sexually transmitted disease. This kind of virus affects the genital areas as well as other parts of the body. There are actually 2 types of HSV, and they are HSV1 and HSV2.
Herpes is categorized as a chronic condition. This means that this is a long-term disease. However, there are numerous people do not manifest symptoms even though they have the disease. Many people also suffer from recurring genital herpes. If an individual is initially infected with herpes, then the recurrences tend to happen more frequently. The remission periods will get longer. Every occurrence tends to become less intense with time. HSV is very contagious and it can be easily transmitted to humans. This can be transmitted by direct contact. When a person becomes infected with the disease, it will remain dormant.
Most people with HSV do not know that they are carrying it because the symptoms are very slight. Many people cannot notice symptoms. So what are the symptoms of herpes? The blatant symptoms of herpes are generally in the form of blisters on the genital areas and sores around the mouth.
Many people do not have obvious symptoms for months or even years after being infected. For those who have symptoms on the initial period, they will notice it around four to seven days after becoming infected.
Here is a good video from YouTube explaining what is herpes:
Primary Infection Symptoms
This is a term applied for an outbreak of herpes that is apparent when an individual is infected for the first time. When primary infection is experienced, they are more severe compared to subsequent recurrences. The symptoms can last around 20 days and they may include:
Vaginal discharge
Blisters and ulceration on the cervix
Fever
Pain during urination
Cold sores around the mouth
Malaise
Red blisters – these blisters are very painful. They will soon burst and leave ulcers on the genital areas, buttocks, thighs, and rectum. The ulcers, in most cases, will heal and will not leave any scars.
Recurrent Infection Symptoms
These kinds of symptoms do not last long and they are less severe because the body has become immune to the virus. Usually, they will not last for more than ten days. The symptoms are:
Cold sores around the mouth
Burning around genitals before the blisters appear
Women may have blisters and ulceration on the cervix
Red blisters
Eventually, recurrences will happen less severe and less often. People with HSV 1 will experience less severe symptoms and fewer recurrences compared to people with HSV 2. When the virus is present on the skin of the infected individual, it can be easily transmitted to another individual through the moist skin that lines the mouth, genitals, and anus. It can also be transmitted to another individual through other parts of the skin including the eyes.
A person cannot be infected by touching things like washbasin or towel, which has been touch by a person with HSV. It has to be in direct contact with the infected person to become infected.
Below are some ways HSV can be transmitted:
Having oral sex with an infected person
Having unprotected sex
Having genital contact with an infected person
Sharing sex toys
Herpes simplex virus leaves the skin before blisters start to appear. This virus can be transmitted before blisters develops, when it visible, and even when the blister has been completely healed. HSV can still be passed to another person even if there are no symptoms. If a pregnant woman has herpes, then it is possible that the virus can be passed onto the baby.
Filed Under: Herpes Articles Tagged With: blisters, cold sores, genital herpes, herpes, herpes symptoms, herpes type 1, herpes type 2, hsv, hsv 1, hsv 2, sexually transmitted disease, what is herpes
Primary Sidebar
A Proven Program to Get Rid of Herpes!
Want to get rid of herpes? Then here's a program to get rid of it forever! Find out more about Get Rid of Herpes.
About the Author
Albert has been blogging for almost 4 years. He spends most of his time writing about different topics such as health, technology, home improvement, and cooking. Aside from being and avid blogger, Albert is a health practitioner. He built this website to exercise his field of expertise and to educate people on how they can cure herpes.
Recent Posts
What Else to Know About STDs?
The Top 3 Common STDs
Biotechs Racing Tight for Genital Herpes Vaccine in US
Professor Ian Frazer is Developing A Vaccine for Herpes Simplex Virus in Australia
Facts about Herpes Virus Family
How Can You Tell if Someone Has Genital Herpes?
Tips On How to Protect Yourself from Getting Herpes
Is it Possible to Contract Genital Herpes to the Mouth?
You Probably Have Herpes And You Do Not Know About It!
Natural Remedies for Herpes Simplex Virus
Categories
Cold Sores
Herpes Articles
Herpes News
Natural Treatment
Connect With Us!
Copyright © 2019 · HowtoTreatHerpes.Info