Ginger water: Benefits, risks, and how to make it at home
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Is drinking ginger water good for health?
Last reviewed	 Mon 25 June 2018	 Last reviewed	Mon 25 Jun 2018
By MaryAnn de Pietro
Reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Table of contents
Health benefits
Risks and side effects
How to make
Takeaway
Ginger water can be easily made at home and is a convenient way of consuming ginger for its potential health benefits. People have used ginger for thousands of years, as both a flavoring in foods and a natural remedy, to treat a variety of conditions, such as pain and nausea.
In this article, we examine the potential benefits and risks of ginger, and some of the scientific evidence for these, as well as how to make ginger water at home.
Health benefits
Ginger water may help with pain, nausea, and weight loss.
Although there are studies that support the potential health benefits of ginger, there is limited research on drinking ginger water specifically. Most studies do not indicate whether the participants took ginger in capsule form, added it to food, or drank it as ginger water or tea.
However, ginger and ginger water may be helpful for the following conditions:
Pain
Ginger water may help decrease some types of pain. In a study that involved 60 adults with migraine pain, researchers found using ginger as an add-on therapy was better than taking painkillers alone.
Nausea
People have long used ginger as a herbal treatment for nausea. In a 2015 review, researchers looked at nine studies in which people used ginger for postoperative nausea, chemotherapy side effects, viral nausea, and morning sickness. The studies, although not always clinically watertight, all indicated that ginger provided a reduction in nausea and vomiting.
Which essential oils help with nausea?
Essential oils can offer an alternative way of treating nausea. Learn which ones can help and how to use them here.
Read now
Cholesterol levels
One study in rats suggests that ginger might reduce cholesterol levels. The rats ate a high-cholesterol diet, which increased their total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoproteins. The researchers then found that also feeding the rats supplements containing ginger prevented high cholesterol in the bloodstream.
However, more research is needed to determine if ginger would have the same effects on cholesterol levels in humans.
Blood sugar control
Ginger water may help control fasting blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes.
In one 12-week study, researchers divided 41 people with type 2 diabetes into two groups. One group took 2 grams of a ginger powder supplement each day, while the second group received a placebo drug. The people who took the ginger experienced a significant reduction in fasting blood sugar.
Weight loss
In another study, researchers divided 10 men into two groups. One group drank hot ginger water after eating breakfast. The other group did not. The men who drank the ginger water reported greater feelings of fullness.
Although the study was small, and additional studies are necessary, it suggests that ginger water might have a role in weight management.
Risks and side effects
Drinking ginger water appears to be safe for most people. However, there may be some situations when it is best to consult a doctor first.
According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, there are some concerns that ginger may interfere with blood-thinning medication. Although research is inconclusive, people who take blood thinners should speak with their doctor before drinking ginger water.
People who drink ginger water in excess may experience mild side effects, including:
gas
abdominal pain
diarrhea
heartburn
One study, which used data from 1,020 women, reviewed the safety of ginger during pregnancy. The researchers found that using ginger during pregnancy to treat nausea and vomiting did not increase the risk of:
stillbirth
preterm birth
birth malformations
a low Apgar (Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity, and Respiration in newborns) score
However, although no studies have concluded that ginger causes harm in pregnancy, it is still best to talk with a doctor before drinking ginger water while pregnant.
How to make ginger water at home
People can make ginger water at home and add lemon to improve the taste
Ginger water is available as herbal water, tea, and juice. It can be drunk either hot or cold. People can buy any of these products online.
Alternatively, a person can make ginger water at home. The best way to make it is by using fresh ginger root, which people can find in grocery stores in the fresh produce section.
A common way to make ginger water is as follows:
grate 1.5 teaspoons of fresh ginger
boil 4 cups of water
add the ginger to the water
remove the water from the stove
allow the ginger to steep for about 5 to 10 minutes
strain the liquid to remove ginger pieces
allow the water to cool enough to drink or place in the refrigerator and drink cold
Ginger has a strong taste. For some people, adding a flavoring, such as honey or lemon, may improve the taste.
Takeaway
Research is not conclusive that drinking ginger water improves a person's health. However, limited studies do show some possible benefits. Since drinking ginger water appears to have few risks for most people, it may be worth a try. It may also encourage drinking more water, which is a good way to stay well hydrated.
It is relatively easy to make ginger water at home. As with all health supplements or remedies, it is best to talk with a doctor before trying ginger water.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
What are the benefits of drinking hot water? Drinking water can support skin, muscle, and joint health. Drinking warm or hot water each day might offer even more benefits. We look at the research. Read now
When is the best time to drink water? Drinking water at any time of day helps someone to rehydrate. However, if they drink it at certain times of the day, there may be other consequences. Read now
Is it safe to drink raw water? Drinking raw water is a relatively new health phenomenon, but are the rumors about its health benefits true, or is it dangerous? Find out here. Read now
Ginger: Health benefits and dietary tips Ginger adds flavor to foods and can relieve nausea and gastrointestinal irritation and reduce exercise-induced muscle pain and inflammation. Read now
What to know about ginger for diarrhea A look at ginger for diarrhea, a remedy that has been used for a long time. Included is detail on how much ginger is too much, as how much to eat a day. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Cholesterol Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Mon 25 June 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Akinyemi, A. J., Oboh, G., Ademiluyi, A. O., Boligon, A. A., & Athayde, M. L. (2016, April). Effect of two ginger varieties on arginase activity in hypercholesterolemic rats [Abstract]. Journal of Acupuncture and Meridian Studies, 9(2), 80–87. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27079229
Ginger. (2016, September). Retrieved from https://nccih.nih.gov/health/ginger
Heitmann, K., Nordeng, H., & Holst, L. (2013, February). Safety of ginger use in pregnancy: Results from a large population-based cohort study [Abstract]. European Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, 69(2), 269–277. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22706624
Khandouzi, N., Shidfar, F., Rajab, A., Rahideh, T., Hosseini, P., & Taheri, M. M. (2015, winter). The effects of ginger on fasting blood sugar, hemoglobin A1c, apolipoprotein B, apolipoprotein A-I and malondialdehyde in type 2 diabetic patients. Iranian Journal of Pharmaceutical Research, 14(1), 131–140. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4277626/
Mansour, M. S., Ni, Y.-M., Roberts, A. L., Kelleman, M., RoyChoudhury, A., & St-Onge, M.-P. (2012, October). Ginger consumption enhances the thermic effect of food and promotes feelings of satiety without affecting metabolic and hormonal parameters in overweight men: A pilot study. Metabolism, 61(10), 1347–1352. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3408800/
Martins, L. B., Rodrigues, A. M. D. S., Rodrigues, D. F., Dos Santos, L. C., Teixeira, A. L., & Ferreira, A. V. M. (2018, January 1). Double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial of ginger (Zingiber officinale Rosc.) addition in migraine acute treatment [Abstract]. Cephalalgia. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29768938
Marx, W., Kiss, N., & Isenring, L. (2015, June). Is ginger beneficial for nausea and vomiting? An update of the literature [Abstract]. Current Opinion in Supportive and Palliative care, 9(2), 189–195. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25872115
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
de Pietro, MaryAnn. "Is drinking ginger water good for health?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 25 Jun. 2018. Web.
25 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322257.php>
APA
de Pietro, M. (2018, June 25). "Is drinking ginger water good for health?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322257.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
This common food additive may fuel weight gain, diabetes
A new research study links the common anti-mold food additive propionate to blood sugar metabolism and insulin resistance in human volunteers and mice.
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
How the brain adapts to hear better after vision loss
Researchers look at what happens in the brains of people with vision loss to understand what allows them to hear better than their fully sighted peers.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322257.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);