Thrombosed Hemorrhoid Treatment – Simple Ways To Stop The Pain | Help-For-Hemorrhoids.com
Navigation
Help-For-Hemorrhoids.com Helping you get rid of hemorrhoids
Home
Header Primary Menu
Warning: Illegal string offset 'output_key' in /home/helpforhems/public_html/wp-includes/nav-menu.php on line 604
Warning: Illegal string offset 'output_key' in /home/helpforhems/public_html/wp-includes/nav-menu.php on line 604
Home
Hemorrhoids: Symptoms, Causes, and Relief
Return to Content
Thrombosed Hemorrhoid Treatment – Simple Ways To Stop The Pain
By Samantha Brown on September 22, 2010 in Thrombosed Hemorrhoids
Thrombosed hemorrhoids occur when the vein of an external hemorrhoid develops a blood clot.
Thus thrombosed hemorrhoids are often called blood clot hemorrhoids. You can usually distinguish a thrombosed external hemorrhoid from other external hemorrhoids because they are swollen, lumpy and extremely painful.
If the pain is bad, but not bad enough to seek medical attention, these home remedies should be successful for thrombosed hemorrhoid treatment; they are:
Warm Sitz Baths – You have probably heard this one time and time again but that is because it works.
The warm water provides soothing relief from the itching and burning and also reduces the swelling. Three 15 minute sitz baths daily would be ideal.
Increase Your Fluid Intake – Drink a minimum of 8 glasses of water daily. This is very important. The water will hydrate your body and make bowel movements easier.
Increase Your Fiber Intake – We all know that plenty of fiber is a great way to avoid constipation. Add foods with high fiber content to your daily diet.
Obviously this will take some time to be effective and since you need relief now, you may want to take a bulk fiber laxative or a stool softener to make going to the bathroom easier while your hemorrhoids are present.
Clean the Area Thoroughly – Keeping the hemorrhoid area clean is imperative. After each bowel movement be sure to clean the area with warm water or a moist cloth. Keeping the area clean will prevent further irritation and swelling in the area.
Cure Thrombosed Hemorrhoids for Good!
If you are unfortunate to have thrombosed hemorrhoids you will need a fast-acting treatment to get rid of them and relieve your pain.It is important to treat thrombosed hemorrhoids quickly to avoid the problem becoming worse.
If you would like to reduce your hemorrhoid symptoms and get back to a worry-free, comfortable life we recommend trying our number 1 rated hemorrhoids cure, Hemorrhoid Rescue.
Click here to visit the Hemorrhoid Rescue site
Or
Click here to read our full Hemorrhoid Rescue review
Aleve – Aleve works well because it contains an anti-inflammatory that will give you some pain relief and help to shrink the size of the hemorrhoid.
Ice – Applying an ice pack to the area will cool down the area and give you some immediate relief from the irritation and burning. The ice will also help to shrink the hemorrhoid. You can apply ice to the area as often as you need to.
Hemorrhoid Creams – Over the counter hemorrhoid creams are effective at providing temporary relief from the burning and itching. Be sure to choose a cream that contains hydrocortisone.
If your hemorrhoid does not respond to any of these treatments, contact your doctor. There are a number of different thrombosed hemorrhoid treatment methods your doctor can perform.
The quickest and most effective thrombosed hemorrhoid treatment is removing the blood clot. This provides immediate pain relief. However, do not attempt this at home. This procedure should only be done by a qualified medical professional. Also, even though you have the clot drained to relieve the pain, it can still reoccur at a future date.
Click here to compare the best treatments for thrombosed hemorrhoids
About Samantha Brown
View all posts by Samantha Brown →
external hemorrhoid treatment, hemorrhoid treatment, thrombosed external hemorrhoid, thrombosed hemorrhoid, thrombosed hemorrhoid treatment, thrombosed hemorrhoids treatment
Best Hemorrhoid Treatment – Top 5 Treatments For Hemorrhoids
What Causes Hemorrhoids – 5 Common Causes Of Hemorrhoids
No comments yet.
Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Advertisements:
Free Hemorrhoids Report
Recent Posts
Hemorrhoids: Symptoms, Causes, and Relief
Options to Remove Hemorrhoids
What are Piles?
What are the common symptoms of hemorrhoids?
Different Options To Get Rid Of Piles
What is a Thrombosed External Hemorrhoid?
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
What Causes Hemorrhoids
Finding The Best Hemorrhoid Treatment
Hemmorhoid home treatment
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Categories
Get Rid Of Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoid Cure
Hemorrhoidal Surgery
Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids During Pregnancy
Piles Treatment
Thrombosed Hemorrhoids
© 2019 Help-For-Hemorrhoids.com. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by WordPress. Designed by