Is it a good idea to drink your own urine in a survival situation? - Skeptics Stack Exchange
Stack Exchange Network
Stack Exchange network consists of 175 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.
Visit Stack Exchange
Log In Sign Up
current community
Skeptics
help chat
Skeptics Meta
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site
Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have
Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site
About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company
Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us
By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service.
Skeptics Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for scientific skepticism. Join them; it only takes a minute:
Sign up
Here's how it works:
Anybody can ask a question
Anybody can answer
The best answers are voted up and rise to the top
Home
Questions
Tags
Users
Unanswered
Is it a good idea to drink your own urine in a survival situation?
Ask Question
56
9
Image Source
In Man vs. Wild the host Bear Grylls claims you should drink your own urine to avoid dehydration. Among the many other interesting feats he has done:
The show has featured stunts including Grylls climbing cliffs, parachuting from helicopters, balloons, and planes, paragliding, ice climbing, running through a forest fire, wading rapids, eating snakes, wrapping his urine-soaked t-shirt around his head to help stave off the desert heat, drinking urine saved in a rattlesnake skin, drinking fecal liquid from elephant dung, eating deer droppings, wrestling alligators, field dressing a camel carcass and drinking water from it, eating various "creepy crawlies" [insects], utilizing the corpse of a sheep as a sleeping bag and flotation device, free climbing waterfalls and using a bird guano/water enema for hydration.
Is this really a good idea to drink your own urine in a survival situation? Wouldn't it cause other health problems and reduce your chance of survival?
urine survival
share|improve this question
edited May 19 '11 at 0:09
Kit Sunde
asked Mar 30 '11 at 4:13
Kit SundeKit Sunde
12.1k1286124
2
People drink urine not only in survival situations, but for healing and cosmetic purposes. And this article says it all. I thought its popular woo, but I guess I know too many weird people :) – Egle Mar 30 '11 at 6:49
related :) – David Hedlund Mar 30 '11 at 9:55
2
It's a last resort. It can cause a build up of Urea salts in your blood, which is bad. But, when your choice is death vs. hospitalization, go with the hospitalization. – Chris Cudmore Mar 30 '11 at 12:00
1
if it's a question of drinking your own urine or dying from dehydration, the health problems it can cause are preferable to the alternative. – jwenting Mar 30 '11 at 14:24
Never drink your urine. By the time you are at the point where you are desperate enough to do this, your urine is no longer going to be 95% water. As you get dehydrated, the concentration of salts increases substantially. When you drink your urine, your body has to draw up water reserves to help eliminate them...again. You will actually lose more water than you might gain from your urine. – user14817 Jul 31 '13 at 16:01
| show 1 more comment
1 Answer 1
active oldest votes
50
Summary: You can do it, as a last resort, but it's dicey.
The US Army doesn't think it's a good idea and lists it on its "Do NOT drink" list, stating in its Field Manual that it "contains harmful body wastes" and that it is "about 2 percent salt." Several other resources seem to agree, all indicating that it will increase your rate of dehydration. (Warning: the popular science link is not fun to open.)
If it's your only source of water, it's likely that the US Army's recommendations of how to purify polluted water for consumption also applies to urine:
If polluted water is your only moisture source, dig a small trough outside the hole about 25 centimeters from the still’s lip (Figure 6-8). Dig the trough about 25 centimeters deep and 8 centimeters wide. Pour the polluted water in the trough. Be sure you do not spill any polluted water around the rim of the hole where the plastic sheet touches the soil. The trough holds the polluted water and the soil filters it as the still draws it. The water then condenses on the plastic and drains into the container. This process works extremely well when your only water source is salt water.
Other sources, which support my memory on the matter, indicate that it is at best a short term solution. For example, in a Slate article named The Yellow Liquid Diet, the author says that the waste might eventually "cause symptoms similar to those brought on by total kidney failure":
How long can you survive by drinking pee?
An extra day or two, at best. A healthy person's urine is about 95 percent water and sterile, so in the short term it's safe to drink and does replenish lost water. But the other 5 percent of urine comprises a diverse collection of waste products, including nitrogen, potassium, and calcium—and too much of these can cause problems. When you drink your own pee, all the stuff that your kidneys had attempted to excrete comes right back into your stomach, and much of it ends up back in your kidneys. After several days of this, your urine will become highly concentrated with dangerous waste products, and drinking it can cause symptoms similar to those brought on by total kidney failure. At that point, you're doomed either way—from dehydration on the one hand or renal meltdown on the other. (Even if one could filter out most of the unwanted products in urine, the cycle would not be sustainable for long. In addition to what he or she pees out, the average human excretes about half a quart of water a day through sweating and exhaling.)
However, drinking urine for survival has been attempted successfully before.
For example, in 2008, a Chinese man by the name of Shen Peiyun survived six days by laying still and drinking his own urine, which is solid evidence that it won't kill you at least some of the time. While it is not necessarily fatal, it doesn't mean it isn't harmful. For instance, in the case above, no expert has asserted that he would have died without drinking his own urine.
share|improve this answer
edited Dec 30 '14 at 20:02
answered Mar 30 '11 at 4:18
Russell SteenRussell Steen
10.1k15882
3
Wow! You were not kidding about the popular science link. – Borror0 Mar 30 '11 at 9:36
4
As a graduate of USAF survival school, I endorse this answer. +1 – Larian LeQuella Mar 30 '11 at 21:52
I love the caption on the popsci photo. “This Is Probably Not Okay.” – Bradd Szonye Aug 3 '13 at 9:43
Your link about the Chinese man requires a subscription. – Evorlor Dec 29 '14 at 17:19
If you google Shen Peiyun 146, and click through Google, you get around the paywall. – Russell Steen Dec 30 '14 at 20:03
| show 3 more comments
You must log in to answer this question.
protected by Community♦ Jan 7 '16 at 5:03
Thank you for your interest in this question. Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count).
Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?
Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged urine survival .
asked
8 years ago
viewed
39,745 times
active
3 years, 3 months ago
Featured on Meta
Announcing the arrival of Valued Associate #679: Cesar Manara
Unicorn Meta Zoo #1: Why another podcast?
Linked
12
Does urine have health benefits?
Hot Network Questions
Which big number is bigger?
What to do with someone that cheated their way through university and a PhD program?
What is the term for a person whose job is to place products on shelves in stores?
Why do games have consumables?
"My boss was furious with me and I have been fired" vs. "My boss was furious with me and I was fired"
I preordered a game on my Xbox while on the home screen of my friend's account. Which of us owns the game?
What does "function" actually mean in music?
Initiative: Do I lose my attack/action if my target moves or dies before my turn in combat?
Is there a word for the censored part of a video?
Will I lose my paid-in-full property?
As an international instructor, should I openly talk about my accent?
Could moose/elk survive in the Amazon forest?
How to have a sharp product image?
Authenticating an internal API with Flask
How exactly does Hawking radiation decrease the mass of black holes?
Ergodic without atoms implies completely conservative?
Why must Chinese maps be obfuscated?
How can I practically buy stocks?
A strange hotel
Pulling the rope with one hand is as heavy as with two hands?
Magical attacks and overcoming damage resistance
Contradiction proof for inequality of P and NP?
Why do distances seem to matter in the Foundation world?
Who is the character that appears at the end of Endgame?
more hot questions
question feed
Skeptics
Tour
Help
Chat
Contact
Feedback
Mobile
Company
Stack Overflow
Stack Overflow Business
Developer Jobs
About
Press
Legal
Privacy Policy
Stack Exchange
Network
Technology
Life / Arts
Culture / Recreation
Science
Other
Stack Overflow
Server Fault
Super User
Web Applications
Ask Ubuntu
Webmasters
Game Development
TeX - LaTeX
Software Engineering
Unix & Linux
Ask Different (Apple)
WordPress Development
Geographic Information Systems
Electrical Engineering
Android Enthusiasts
Information Security
Database Administrators
Drupal Answers
SharePoint
User Experience
Mathematica
Salesforce
ExpressionEngine® Answers
Stack Overflow em Português
Blender
Network Engineering
Cryptography
Code Review
Magento
Software Recommendations
Signal Processing
Emacs
Raspberry Pi
Stack Overflow на русском
Programming Puzzles & Code Golf
Stack Overflow en español
Ethereum
Data Science
Arduino
Bitcoin
more (31)
Photography
Science Fiction & Fantasy
Graphic Design
Movies & TV
Music: Practice & Theory
Worldbuilding
Seasoned Advice (cooking)
Home Improvement
Personal Finance & Money
Academia
Law
more (15)
English Language & Usage
Skeptics
Mi Yodeya (Judaism)
Travel
Christianity
English Language Learners
Japanese Language
Arqade (gaming)
Bicycles
Role-playing Games
Anime & Manga
Puzzling
Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair
more (33)
MathOverflow
Mathematics
Cross Validated (stats)
Theoretical Computer Science
Physics
Chemistry
Biology
Computer Science
Philosophy
more (10)
Meta Stack Exchange
Stack Apps
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
site design / logo © 2019 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2019.4.25.33457
Skeptics Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled