Morphine Detoxification for Women in Orange County - True Life Recovery
Home
Detox From
Alcohol
Barbiturates
Cocaine
Crystal Meth
Heroin
Hydrocodone
Vicodin
Norco
Lortab
Marijuana
Opiates
Oxycodone
Oxycontin
Morphine
Percocet
Hydromorphone
Tramadol
Q & A
Blog
Staff
Photo Tour
Contact
Admissions
1-800-970-8774
Menu
Morphine
Morphine Sub-Acute Detox for Women in California
Morphine is a natural opiate analgesic that is derived from the opium plant. Clinically morphine is used primarily in hospitals to treat severe pain and is highly beneficial to quickly relieve a patient’s suffering. Acute pain sufferers may also be treated with morphine but also run the risk of addiction. Morphine is a fast acting strong narcotic that affects the central nervous system and depresses the respiratory system. Taking too much morphine may cause death when the respiratory system slows down too much and can cause asphyxsia. People who have developed an addiction and consequently a high tolerance to morphine run a high risk of overdosing and killing themselves.
Why is Morphine So Addictive?
Morphine causes a feeling of euphoria, reduces anxiety, increases feelings of pleasure and relieves fear. Morphine mimics the natural feel good chemicals in the brain known as endorphins. A dependency may develop in people who have only used morphine once. These dependencies, can be both psychological and or physical which may lead to drug abuse and addiction.
Signs of Morphine Overdose
Cold clammy skin
Confusion
Pinpoint constricted pupils
Extreme tiredness, stops communicating, unresponsive
Shallow breathing or irregular slow breathing
Normal Muscle tension is gone
Coma
Heart Attack
Circulatory Collapse
If you suspect a morphine overdose it is necessary to get the person to an emergency room for treatment immediately to stop the effects of morphine in the body.
Getting Help & Morphine Detox
Acknowledging a drug problem takes tremendous strength from the individual deciding to change their life and take control again. A person who has the problem who seeks help should be very proud of themselves. Drug abuse affects millions of people and their families worldwide. It is nothing to be ashamed of because you are not alone. Every race, social class and culture deals with this issue.
Help and Support is Available. Contact Us For Your Private Consultation
Recent Posts
Is Synthetic Marijuana Dangerous?
April 19, 2019/
0 Comments
Making New Friends in Recovery
March 29, 2019/
0 Comments
Taking Care of Your Physical Health in Recovery
March 27, 2019/
0 Comments
Get Help Toiday
Name
Phone
Last Name
E-Mail
Subject
Message
Home
Detox
Q & A
Blog
Staff
Admissions
Contact
© 2019 True Life Recovery, All Rights Reserved.
Close Menu