Marijuana Treatment Rehab - Alcohol and Drugs RehabAlcohol and Drug Rehab Referrals
Home
Blog
About Us/Privacy Policy
sitemap
Addiction Information
About Addiction Treatment
Intervention
Rehab Finder
Paying For Treatment
Call Anytime For FREE Advice!
1-888-205-8608
Available 24/7
Marijuana Treatment Rehab
Marijuana is a very commonly used drug in the United States. It is legal in some states for medicinal use, and there are continuously movements to legalize it for medicinal purposes in additional states, as well as for recreational use. Nonetheless, there are consequences to using this drug, including becoming addicted to it. If you are addicted to marijuana, we can help you find marijuana treatment rehab.
Marijuana Abuse
Marijuana seems to affect people differently based on their genetic makeup. One scientific study found that identical male twins reported experiencing similar effects to marijuana to a greater degree than non identical male twins. The study noted that fraternal twins share fewer genes than identical twins. The Dangers of Marijuana. External factors can also play a role in the use of marijuana. For example, a person’s expectations, their ability to obtain marijuana, their family, their friends and other external factors can influence a person’s use of marijuana. Symptoms of Marijuana Addiction
THC
The substance THC (delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol) is the part of the marijuana plant that creates mental and physical effects, or a “high.” High amounts of THC are found in the “heads,” or flowers and the leaves of the plant.When marijuana is smoked, the THC is absorbed through the lung walls and it then enters the bloodstream. When it’s ingested, it is absorbs through the stomach or intestines. The THC then goes from the bloodstream to the brain, where it affects the brain’s processes and creates a “high.” The “high” is achieved faster by smoking than by eating the THC.
Street names
Marijuana goes by many names on the street and in different areas. You might have heard it called weed, grass, pot, hash, a joint, hooch or dope, among other names. It is also sometimes called less common names or names that refer to the specific type of marijuana, such as skunk, Buddha, cones, buckets, hydro or smoke. Why Does Marijuana Addiction Happen?
Common Myths
Myth #1: Cannabis is natural, so it can’t be harmful for you
Just because something is natural doesn’t mean it is safe. Nature has many things that are dangerous, including venomous snakes and poisonous plants. While marijuana is not poisonous, it can cause risks to your health, including affecting attention span, damaging the lungs and leading to the use of other harmful drugs.
Myth #2: All marijuana is the same strength
Not all marijuana is the same. It can be grown in different ways with different amounts of THC. Also, the differing parts of the plant have different amounts of THC, so the part you smoke can affect the high. Also, you don’t always know what you’re getting. Other plants could be mixed in with the marijuana leaves, especially if you buy it in pieces.
Myth #3: You can’t get addicted to marijuana
In fact, your body can become dependent on marijuana. Just like a dependence on other drugs, marijuana can lead to a need for more of it, feelings that you can’t stop even if you want to, and withdrawal symptoms when you try to stop. People tend to think that marijuana isn’t an addictive drug because the dependence is often not as severe as with harder drugs. Is Marijuana Addictive?
If you are abusing marijuana or you are addicted to it, you have many options if you are ready to quit. These can include a Marijuana Anonymous group, counseling, and in-patient or out-patient rehab programs. We can help you figure out the best treatment option for you and your situation.
If you’re addicted to marijuana and are looking for marijuana treatment rehab options, Drug Rehab Services can help you find:
Drugs rehab
Marijuana treatment
Drug rehabilitation
Detox centers
Withdrawal treatments
Marijuana rehab
How to Stop Smoking Weed
If you need assistance with finding the ideal marijuana treatment rehab for you, please call us 1-888-205-8608.
Whatever path to recovery you choose, our staff has access to hundreds of treatment centers to assure the best personalized treatment for you, then with continued follow up to help you make the transition to sober living as seamless as possible.
Our trained staff of professionals are qualified to help you assess what type of treatment will be the best fit to ensure you or your loved one gets the help you need.
But how does one go about finding the right program?
If this all looks very overwhelming....it is! But that's what we are here for. Call us at 888-205-8608 and we can help make this process much easier. We will narrow down all of these aspects and find the best program for you or your loved one with all your concerns considered. It's as simple as making that first call. And the best part is that we are a free service. The road to recovery starts here!
888-205-8608
We are a free service
1-888-205-8608
--Please Select your State--AKALARAZCACOCTDEFLGAHIIAIDILINKSKYLAMAMDMEMIMNMOMSMTNCNDNENHNJNMNVNYOHOKORPARISCSDTNTXUTVAVTWAWIWVWY
* required field
Pages
Drug Treatment
Alcohol Addiction
Drug and Alcohol Rehab
Process Addiction
Inpatient vs Outpatient
Recent Articles
Teen Drinking Damages Brain
Why is Cocaine Addictive?
Recent Studies Link Drug Addiction and Alcoholism to Childhood Abuse
Vaping and Teens
Trends In Teen Drug Use
Hey Teens! Do You Really Want to Hit Rock Bottom?
4 Ways that Treatment May Reduce Antisocial Behavior
Privacy Policy
sitemap
Alcohol and Drug Rehab Referrals - © 2019