Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD | Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Mosquito Squad of Maryland's Blog
Providing mosquito free, tick free and healthy outdoor living.
About
Contact Us!
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery
301-444-5566
Visit our Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery website
email us
Search Our Blog
Site Categories
Site Categories Select Category All Natural Mosquito Control Asian Tiger Mosquito Canine Lyme Disease Chikungunya Chikungunya in Maryland Community Outreach and Special Events Diseases Eastern Equine Encephalitis Healthy Family Lyme Disease Malaria Malaria No More Campaign Support Mosquito control Mosquito Facts Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Customer Reviews and Testimonials Mosquitoes and Mosquito-borne Illness Nuisance Insect Control Organic Mosquito Control Outdoor Events Outdoor Living Special Event Mosquito & Tick Control for Outdoor Events Stink Bug Protection Tick Control and Prevention Tick Tubes Montgomery Ticks and Lyme Disease Ticks and Tick-borne Illness Traditional Mosquito Control Program Uncategorized West Nile Virus
Posts tagged ‘Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD’
|
June 25, 2015
Mosquito Eater? Mosquito Hawk? Giant Mosquito? What is this Huge Flying Daddy Long Legs Looking Thing?
Crane Fly
“You just sprayed my yard and it’s covered in giant mosquitoes! Please come back and spray again.” Receiving a call like this at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County is our worst nightmare. It is also something we are not accustomed to and we take it very seriously. We headed out to the house in question that very same day to see what possibly could have happened.
A Giant Mosquito Infestation
Sure enough, the back yard really was covered in large mosquito-like insects. Upon closer inspection however, they were not mosquitoes. They in fact were Mosquito Eaters. Often mistaken for giant mosquitoes these lovely creatures resemble a cross between a mosquito and a Daddy Long Legs with wings. They are also widely known in the south as Mosquito Hawks or Skeeter Eaters. But their proper name is actually Crane Fly.
What You Should Know About the Crane Fly
Crane flies do not eat mosquitoes. They were named after them because they look like large versions of them, not because they eat them.
Crane flies do not bite humans.
Adult Crane flies usually don’t eat at all, but their larvae will devour any decaying matter in the water where they live.
Adults only live for 10 to 15 days after hatching.
Living to reproduce, sometimes the female Crane fly will die immediately after laying her eggs.
Crane flies are known for their lazy flight, attraction to light and their dangly long legs. Many of us were under the impression that they were a natural form of mosquito control. If one would get in the house we might carefully shoo it out, realizing its value in eating mosquitoes was too important to squash. Carefully picking it up and trying to release it back in the wild was always a challenge with their fragile long legs often becoming victims to our good will.
Mosquito
Don’t Kill Mosquito Hawks
While you don’t have to “save” them for their mosquito control value, there is no need to eliminate these harmless flies. They serve as food for a large variety of other insects, birds and fish and their larvae provide a great service in munching away at the decaying matter in wetlands. There have been reports of larvae munching on the roots and destroying lawns when they show up in massive droves but that is the exception not the norm.
If you happen to be an angler you might be very familiar with The Crane Fly and its value. But you probably don’t call it a Crane Fly either, you quite likely call it great bait or fish food. Known to be a wonderful bait for catching Bass, the Crane Fly can be mighty useful to the fishing sportsman/woman.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
While we don’t advocate killing Crane Flies we do suggest you eliminate its smaller, much more dangerous, smaller name sake – the mosquito. Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Advertisements
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: A case of mistaken identity Crane fly vs. mosquito, Facts about Crane Flies, Facts about mosquito hawks, healthy outdoor living, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
June 16, 2015
Don’t Let One Mosquito Turn into One Billion Mosquitoes in your Montgomery County Back Yard
The wet weather that has been occurring here in Maryland over past weeks presents the perfect mix of moisture and warmth, resulting in booming mosquito populations. In honor of Mosquito Awareness week, which is June 21-27, we want to do our part in making the public aware of the reality of mosquitoes we want to share with you the crazy, unbelievable facts about how fast mosquitoes can reproduce going from 1 to more than 1 billion.
You may think having an unprotected property means you will have a few pesky mosquitoes here and there. You will have to light a candle or spray some spray when you are going outside for the evening, no big deal. Right? Wrong. What you don’t know can hurt you, and your neighbors! It only takes one bite from one mosquito carrying West Nile Virus (WNV) or Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE) to make you, a loved one, or your neighbor very sick.
Only One Mosquito to Make you Sick. What Will a Billion Do?
Here at Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County we like numbers. Numbers help us make sure we are doing our job. How many mosquitoes did you see in your yard before we treated it? How many did you see after? Numbers are a perfect measuring tool. Let’s look at the numbers to see how in the world mosquito populations get to be so big so fast.
Week One
That one female mosquito comes a takes a bite out of you. The blood you provided her allows her to develop viable eggs. This little lady goes and lays up to 300 eggs at one time! (She can lay 3 batches of eggs in her lifetime.) About half of these 300 eggs will become egg laying female mosquitoes, hanging out in your backyard waiting for a meal to help them produce their 300 eggs.
Week Two
Now you have 151 female mosquitoes flying around your back yard laying their eggs. Not only will these mosquitoes be gaining 300 new siblings as Mom lays 300 more eggs, but they are also making Momma mosquito a grandma to 45,000 grandbabies. Add the grandbabies and siblings up and you have 45,300 new mosquitoes during week two.
Week Three
It is safe to assume half of week two’s new mosquitoes are egg laying females, or 22,650. Do you want to do the math? 22,650 x 300 eggs each = 6,795,300 new mosquitoes and that is just from the mosquitoes that hatched from week 2. You still have to add their mothers’ new batch of eggs laid (for simplicity we will skip that part).
Week Four
Keep doing the math as we have before and week three’s 3,397,000 new female mosquitoes are laying their eggs in week four. We are talking about 1,319,250,000 mosquitoes in your yard (and your neighbors I am sure) in just four weeks. Four weeks is all it takes for 1 female mosquito to turn into 1.3+ billion mosquitoes.
Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery County wants to help you nip it in the bud when you are in week 1 or at the least, week 2. Doesn’t it make sense to eliminate 1-300 mosquito bites and avoid the whole math thing in the first place? Don’t fret if you are already in the thick of your mosquito multiplication problem, our traditional barrier spray eliminates mosquitoes on contact. With the time-released formula it keeps working for up to 3 weeks eliminating up to 90% of the mosquitoes in your yard.
Susan Levi, Owner Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery.
Protect your family and friends today by contacting Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery to schedule mosquito (and tick) protection for your special outdoor occasion and all season long! You can reach us at (301) 444-5566 • email: westmontco@mosquitosquad.com.
Posted in Healthy Family, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Outdoor Living | Leave a Comment »
Tags: healthy outdoor living, How quickly mosquitoes populate in an untreated area, Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention, Kentlands mosquito control in MD, Montgomery County MD mosquito control, Mosquito Awareness week, Mosquito control, Mosquito Facts, Nuisance Insect Control, Rockville MD mosquito control service, Traditional Mosquito Control Program Kentlands mosquito control in MD
|
Tags
asian tiger mosquitoes biting mosquitoes Community outreach on mosquito and tick safety in Rockville MD healthy outdoor living Heightening awarness of Lyme Disease in West Montgomery MD How to prevent Lyme Disease carrying ticks in your MD backyard this season Kensington Kensington MD mosquito control and prevention Kensington MD tick control and prevention Kensinton MD mosquito control Kentland mosquito control & prevention Kentland mosquito service Kentlands mosquito control in MD Kentlands Tick control and protections Lyme disease Malaria No More maryland Md MD tick control & prevention montgomery county Montgomery County MD mosquito control mosquito Mosquito control Mosquito Control to reduce the risk of West Nile Virus Rockville MD mosquito repellent Mosquito Squad Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery discusses the misconception of the Polar Vortex's impact on mosquitoes Mosquito Squad of West Montgomery MD North Bethesda MD tick control program Nuisance Insect Control Protecting against the risk of Lyme Disease in Maryland Raising awareness of mosquito borne illness in Rockville MD Raising awareness of tick borne illness in Rockville MD rockville Rockville MD effective mosquito control Rockville MD mosquito control service Rockville MD mosquito control to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne illness Rockville MD organic mosquito control and prevention Rockville MD tick control The 5T's of mosquito control and prevention The truth about Lyme Disease in MD tick control montgomery county tick treatment West Montgomery MD mosquito control and prevention
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
August 2011
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy