APP.NET - Global Application Network
Log in Register
Healing Crystals
Upvote Call Text Schedule Share
Download Application
Google Play Apple Store
Crystal therapy or crystal healing is a sort of vibrational medicine. Crystal therapy necessitates the application of crystals or gemstones to help healing.Gemstones hold spiritual and healing attributes that may be tapped into an assortment of ways. Crystals may be carried or worn on the individual, or placed in a location where their therapeutic vibrations may be felt by whosoever is nearby. Healers likewise place stones on their clients' reclined bodies to equilibrate the chakras and aura.Crystals bring light and color to your overall aura and physical body.They do this through the chakra system and subtle body layers. They are also used in a certain grid pattern of sacred geometry. These grids generate pillars of light exposing the body to multi-dimensional understanding and awareness.Crystal Therapy is considered as the prehistoric art of laying-on-ofstones. Stones, crystals and gems are laid on the body over the chakrapoints. Every chakra resonates to a certain color and the chakras align and mix with one another.The main principle behind the need for crystal healing is that diseases take place when there is inequality between divine energy and a person. This light or divine energy is believed by most healers as the main groundwork of universal creation.To understand more about crystal healing, this book will serves as your guide. From its basic principles to the underlying facts about crystals, you will know all of them can. So, continue reading and learn how crystal healing will dramatically change your life.Healing Crystals and Gemstones are not only beautiful, and mystical, but also profound "energy medicine" tools, which have been used for centuries throughout all cultures, religions and empires. Crystals bring amazing benefits of healing, to those who use them.Crystals and stones have been used since the dawn of civilization. They can be used to influence our moods, our health, our personal development, our wealth, our environment and our relationships.I sincerely want to invite you to learn more about these incredible and divine gifts from God and Mother Earth. You will enjoy learning how the powerful energy and vibration of crystals and gemstones, can work with you. By helping you heal, physically, emotionally, and spiritually. While attracting abundance, prosperity, love, harmony and happiness into your life. Mother Earth has gifted us with many varieties of crystals and stones, however in this website we will list, and describe some of the best stones and crystals for women (and men) to use in their own healing.Since stones and crystals vibrate and emit pure, strong vibrations at constant rates, they can be used to help eliminate distortions and restore proper balance within ourselves, leading to better overall physical, mental and spiritual well being.To understand more about crystal healing, this app will serves as your guide. From its basic principles to the underlying facts about crystals, you will know all of them can. So, continue reading and learn how crystal healing will dramatically change your life.
Crystal therapy or crystal healing is a sort of vibrational medicine. Crystal therapy necessitates the application of crystals or gemstones to help healing.Gemstones hold spiritual and healing attributes that may be tapped into an assortment of ways. Crystals may be carried or worn on the individual, or placed in a location where their therapeutic vibrations may be felt by whosoever is nearby. Healers likewise place stones on their clients' reclined bodies to equilibrate the chakras and aura.Crystals bring light and color to your overall aura and physical body.They do this through the chakra system and subtle body layers. They are also used in a certain grid pattern of sacred geometry. These grids generate pillars of light exposing the body to multi-dimensional understanding and awareness.Crystal Therapy is considered as the prehistoric art of laying-on-ofstones. Stones, crystals and gems are laid on the body over the chakrapoints. Every chakra resonates to a certain color and the chakras align and mix with one another.The main principle behind the need for crystal healing is that diseases take place when there is inequality between divine energy and a person. This light or divine energy is believed by most healers as the main groundwork of universal creation.To understand more about crystal healing, this book will serves as your guide. From its basic principles to the underlying facts about crystals, you will know all of them can. So, continue reading and learn how crystal healing will dramatically change your life.Healing Crystals and Gemstones are not only beautiful, and mystical, but also profound "energy medicine" tools, which have been used for centuries throughout all cultures, religions and empires. Crystals bring amazing benefits of healing, to those who use them.Crystals and stones have been used since the dawn of civilization. They can be used to influence our moods, our health, our personal development, our wealth, our environment and our relationships.I sincerely want to invite you to learn more about these incredible and divine gifts from God and Mother Earth. You will enjoy learning how the powerful energy and vibration of crystals and gemstones, can work with you. By helping you heal, physically, emotionally, and spiritually. While attracting abundance, prosperity, love, harmony and happiness into your life. Mother Earth has gifted us with many varieties of crystals and stones, however in this website we will list, and describe some of the best stones and crystals for women (and men) to use in their own healing.Since stones and crystals vibrate and emit pure, strong vibrations at constant rates, they can be used to help eliminate distortions and restore proper balance within ourselves, leading to better overall physical, mental and spiritual well being.To understand more about crystal healing, this app will serves as your guide. From its basic principles to the underlying facts about crystals, you will know all of them can. So, continue reading and learn how crystal healing will dramatically change your life.
QR Code 360 View Audio Stream HQ Image Audio Library GeoFence Alarm Button Voice Record Accept CC In App Purchase Push Notifications Forms Public Calendar Video Library Loyalty Coupon Appointment System
© 2019 Healing Crystals. All Rights Reserved