What Causes Hemorrhoids When a High-Fiber Diet Is Eaten? | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Hemorrhoid Treatment With Antibiotics
How to Exercise With a Rectocele
How to Exercise Your PC Muscle for Women
Rectal Exercises
Constipation Symptoms During Pregnancy
What Are the Causes of a Rectal Prolapse?
What Causes Hemorrhoids When a High-Fiber Diet Is Eaten?
By Lisa Sefcik
Related Articles
Hemorrhoid Treatment With Antibiotics
How to Exercise With a Rectocele
How to Exercise Your PC Muscle for Women
Rectal Exercises
A high-fiber diet is one of the best ways to avoid hemorrhoids and prevent them from recurring after they've been treated, says MayoClinic.com. A diet lacking in fiber may cause constipation, which does indeed contribute to hemorrhoids. However, many factors associated with this painful and often itchy condition affect the lower rectum.
Understanding Hemorrhoids
Data supplied by the National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse, or NDDIC, indicates that around 75 percent of people get hemorrhoids at some point in life. This condition is more common to people in the 45 to 65 age group. Hemorrhoids, or "piles," are swollen, inflamed veins around the anus, the point where stool leaves your body, or inside the lower rectum. If you strain during bowel movements, as people may do when they're constipated, this can contribute to hemorrhoids. However, other types of pressure on the veins in this very delicate area can cause hemorrhoids as well.
Other Contributing Factors
Weight gain and obesity can put added stress on the veins in the anus and lower rectum. For example, many pregnant women experience hemorrhoids that resolve after childbirth. Other contributing factors to hemorrhoids include diarrhea, sitting on the toilet for long periods of time, anal intercourse and cirrhosis of the liver. MayoClinic.com indicates that some people may simply be genetically predisposed to get hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids are likely to occur as you get older because the tissues in the rectum and anus are weaker and stretch more easily.
Fiber in Diet
Preventing constipation by increasing the fiber in your diet is one home treatment for hemorrhoids, according to the Cleveland Clinic. If you consider your diet high in fiber, review what you're eating to see if you're getting between five and 10 servings of fiber foods a day. Fiber-rich foods include fruits, vegetables and foods made with whole grains. Beans and peas like navy beans, split peas, lentils and kidney beans are particularly high in fiber, according to the Linus Pauling Institute. Adult women and men age 19 to 50 should try to get at least 25 and 38 g dietary fiber daily, respectively.
Hemorrhoid Treatment
You can treat hemorrhoids at home with topical, non-prescription hemorrhoid creams and suppositories and by soaking in warm water for 10 to 15 minutes two or three times a day. MayoClinic.com suggests using damp toilet paper or moistened towelettes rather than tough, dry toilet paper. Get regular exercise to decrease constipation; exercise can also help you lose extra weight that might be a contributing factor. Most hemorrhoids resolve with home treatments; however, in some cases, they must be surgically removed. If you've tried a high-fiber diet and other home treatments and hemorrhoids persist, please see your doctor.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
NDDIC; Hemorrhoids; November 2010
Cleveland Clinic: Hemorrhoids
Linus Pauling Institute; Fiber; Jane Higdon, PhD; December 2005
MedlinePlus; Hemorrhoids; May 15, 2009
About the Author
Lisa Sefcik has been writing professionally since 1987. Her subject matter includes pet care, travel, consumer reviews, classical music and entertainment. She's worked as a policy analyst, news reporter and freelance writer/columnist for Cox Publications and numerous national print publications. Sefcik holds a paralegal certification as well as degrees in journalism and piano performance from the University of Texas at Austin.
More Related Articles
Hernia Signs and Symptoms in a Male
Rectal Prolapse Exercises
Complications of Endovenous Laser Treatment
Related Articles
What Are the Causes of a Rectal Prolapse?
Read More
What Is the Difference Between a Pilonidal Cyst & an Anal Fistula?
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
What Exercises Can I Do So I Won't Tear During Labor?
Read More
Causes of Diastasis Recti
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.