Report: Vaccines Safe, Not Linked To Autism - Disability Scoop
Access provided by
My Account
Log Out
Join
Log In
Latest News
Education
Health & Behavior
Living
Money
Politics & Law
Autism
Cerebral Palsy
Down Syndrome
Intellectual Disability
About
Email Sign-Up
Advertise
Contact
Search
Jobs
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
RSS
Menu
The Premier Source for Developmental Disability News
Skip to content
Latest News
Jobs
Email Sign-Up
Search Facebook Twitter
Search...
Close
1
Trump Approves Extension Of Program Helping People Leave Institutions
2
Researchers: Fecal Transplant May Improve Behavior In Kids With Autism
3
New School Opens At Site Where Boy Was Restrained And Later Died
4
Effort Underway To Expand Access To Respite Care
5
Feds Eye Reauthorization Of IDEA
6
Disability Service Provider Accused Of ‘Culture Of Mistreatment’
7
Neighborhood Under Construction For Those With Special Needs
8
Modeled After ‘Shark Tank,’ Program Opens Doors For Adults On The Spectrum
9
School Districts Struggle With Mounting Special Ed Costs
10
CEO Of Disability Nonprofit Ordered To Pay $150K For Medicaid Fraud
Report: Vaccines Safe, Not Linked To Autism
by Michelle Diament | August 25, 2011
Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email
In the first comprehensive review of vaccine safety since 1994, yet another body of medical researchers is affirming that there is no link between vaccines and autism.
The finding comes in a report released Thursday from the Institute of Medicine, part of the National Academy of Sciences, that was produced at the federal government’s request.
For the review, a committee of experts analyzed over 1,000 research articles focusing on eight vaccines and their relation to 158 possible reactions. Overall, they found that side effects from immunizations are generally limited and temporary.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
“Vaccines are not free from side effects, or ‘adverse effects,’ but most are very rare or very mild,” the group said.
The report indicates 14 cases where evidence suggests that vaccines could cause health problems such as seizures, severe allergic reactions and brain swelling.
However, the Institute of Medicine panel soundly rejected any link between autism and the measles, mumps and rubella, or MMR, vaccine after assessing 22 studies on the topic.
“The findings should be reassuring to parents that few health problems are clearly connected to immunizations, and these effects occur relatively rarely,” said committee chair Ellen Wright Clayton, a professor of pediatrics and law at Vanderbilt University.
Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
Find a Job
Community Support Services Director
Development Officer
School Psychologist
Director of Behavioral Supports
Chief of Operations
View all jobs Post a Job
More in Autism Comments
DISABILITY SCOOP WELCOMES COMMENTS, THOUGH ONLY A SELECTION ARE PUBLISHED. WE LOOK FOR SUBMISSIONS THAT ARE THOUGHTFUL, ON-TOPIC AND ADD NEW IDEAS OR PERSPECTIVE. PLEASE KEEP YOUR REMARKS BRIEF AND REFRAIN FROM INSERTING LINKS.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Read Next
Politics & Law
Trump Approves Extension Of Program Helping People Leave Institutions
New funding will ensure that a program that moves people with disabilities from institutions to the community can stick around while advocates push for a longer-term solution.
April 23, 2019
Autism
Researchers: Fecal Transplant May Improve Behavior In Kids With Autism
A "fecal transplant" helped to substantially improve behavior and gastrointestinal health in children with autism, according to a small new study, and the effects were long lasting.
April 23, 2019
Education
New School Opens At Site Where Boy Was Restrained And Later Died
Just months after a teen with autism was restrained and later died, a new school has opened on the campus where the incident occurred and it features many of the same students and staff.
April 23, 2019
View More Stories
© 2011 Disability Scoop, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
View this article online at https://www.disabilityscoop.com/2011/08/25/report-vaccines-safe/13818/
Sign up today for
the Disability Scoop
Newsletter
Your email here
Thanks for your interest
Please check your email for instructions to complete your sign-up.
© 2008-2019 Disability Scoop, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Advertise
Sign up for our newsletter
Get the latest developmental disability news from Disability Scoop sent straight to your inbox.
Autism
Down Syndrome
Intellectual Disability
Cerebral Palsy
And More…
E-mail Address:
Thanks for your interest
Please check your email for instructions to complete your sign-up.
No thanks
×
You're reading of free articles this month.
This is your last free article this month.
Get unlimited Disability Scoop access starting at just $5
Join Today
Logged in as
Already a member? Log In
Close
Log In
Log In
Forgot password?
Don't have an account? Join Today