Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer? – Health Kismet Blog
Skip to content
Health Kismet Blog
Almost Meaningful
☰ Menu
Home
Contact
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Posted on October 22, 2011 by Jonathan B
Nope.
The 5 billion people worldwide who chat away on cell phones shouldn’t worry about an increased risk of brain cancer, new Danish research contends.
One of the largest and longest studies on the subject finds no more brain tumors among people who had cell phones over 17 years than among people who had no cell phones.
Although no one study can rule out harm with absolute certainty, “the risk, if there is one, is extremely low,” said Dr. Ezriel E. Kornel, director of the Neuroscience Institute at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
The full article is here.
This result is not unique. Most random trials and long-term epidemiological studies show about the same thing. Here are overviews of existing studies here and here.
The only caveat is that carcinogenesis may take up to 40 years to fully develop, so existing studies may not be broad enough in scope.
So you’re safe……for now!
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Posted in The Kitchen Sink
Published by Jonathan B
View all posts by Jonathan B
Post navigation
Previous Post 100 Years Young
Next Post Healthy and Delicious Stories
2 thoughts on “Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?”
GR2	 October 22, 20113:05 pm	 Reply
My teenage daughters thank you for conveying this news.
LikeLike
Jeanie	 October 22, 20113:07 pm	 Reply
If there’s a public health issue with cell phones, it’s their effect on drving. There was an article out the other day about a country that banned blackberries, and traffic accidents immediately went down. I think other states have invoked similar measures and the results have been fairly consistent.
LikeLike
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Search for:
Blog at WordPress.com.
%d bloggers like this: