Chances of Getting Pregnant | SheCares
SheCares Keep your body in hormonal balance
Hormones
Natural Hormones
Estrogen
Progesterone
Testosterone
HRT
BioIdentical
Hormonal Imbalance Treatments
Female Hormones
Symptoms
Anxiety
Breast Pain
Cramps
Depression
Difficulty Concentrating
Dizziness
Dyspareunia
Endometriosis
Fatigue
Hair Loss
Headaches
Hot Flashes
Infertility
Irregular Periods
Itchy Skin
Loss of Libido
Memory Lapses
Miscarriage
Mood Swings
Muscle Weakness
Night Sweats
Osteoporosis
Sleep Disorders
Tingling Extremities
Vaginal Dryness
Weight Gain
PMS
PCOS
Perimenopause Symptoms
Postmenopause Symptoms
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Hormonal Imbalance Symptoms
Menstruation
Female Reproductive System
Menstrual Cycle
Normal Period Symptoms
Menstrual Disorders
Menstrual Relief
Healthy Periods
Menstrual Hygiene
Period Trackers
Menstruation
Pregnancy
Pre-Pregnancy
Conception
Pregnancy
Childbirth
Postpartum
Ovulation
Ovulation Cycle
Signs & Symptoms
Ovulation Tests
Ovulation Predictors
Ovulation Problems
Ovulation Induction
Fertility
Ovarian Reserve
Fertility Tests
Fertility and Age
Fertility Preservation
Male Fertility
Infertility
Pregnancy Guide
Menopause
What Happens During Menopause?
Stages of Menopause
Causes of Menopause
Signs and Symptoms of Menopause
Menopause Problems
Menopause Tests
Treatment of Menopause
Women's Wellness
Home
Pregnancy
How Conception Works
Chances of Getting Pregnant
By SheCares Editorial Team
- Updated: March 26, 2019
When women are not yet thinking about motherhood, it might seem as if a brief moment of heated passion and carelessness can result in pregnancy.
But when they begin actively trying to conceive, they often realize that the likelihood of getting pregnant per menstrual cycle is not as high as they previously thought. Contrary to common beliefs, couples have only a 25% chance of conceiving in any given menstrual cycle, and most do not get pregnant at first try.
Keep on reading to gain a better understanding of your chances of pregnancy, including how easy is it to get pregnant throughout the month and how various factors, such as age or birth control methods, shape the statistics of getting pregnant.
Pin
Sections
How Conception Works Overview
Chances of Getting Pregnant
Getting Pregnant by Age
Getting Pregnant Around Period and Ovulation
Getting Pregnant on Birth Control
Getting Pregnant after Stopping Birth Control
Getting Pregnant after Tubal Ligation
Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding
How Long Does It Take to Get Pregnant
How Soon After Giving Birth Can You Get Pregnant
How to Have Twins
Conceiving a Boy or a Girl
Chances of Getting Pregnant in a Cycle
Due to natural hormonal fluctuations driving menstruation, a woman's odds of getting pregnant greatly vary during the cycle. The following breakdown is based on a 28-day cycle, though healthy period patterns can last from 21 to 35 days.
Chances of Pregnancy During Period
For most women with 28-day cycles, the odds of pregnancy while on a period are nil because their fertile window does not start until Day 9. However, those with shorter cycles might be entering their fertility days while still bleeding.
Chances of Pregnancy After Period and Before Ovulation
The odds of pregnancy increase with every day that passes after a period as a woman is approaching her fertile window. Having sex during the five days before ovulation is a woman's best chance to get pregnant. Those with short cycles might already be in their most fertile days right after a period and before ovulation.
Chances of Pregnancy during Ovulation
Ovulation, which lasts for 12 to 24 hours, is the only time during which the egg can be fertilized if the sperm is present by the fallopian tubes. As such, having sex on ovulation day guarantees very high chances of pregnancy.
Chances of Pregnancy After Ovulation and Before Period
The time of the lowest probability of pregnancy is after ovulation and until the next period. When the egg is not fertilized by the sperm during the 24-hour window, it will move to the uterus to be shed about two weeks later with menstrual bleeding.
Additional Information
For women with irregular periods or irregular ovulation, it is best to track their menstrual patterns with the help of ovulation tests, such as checking cervical mucus, as they help detect bodily clues that fertile days are approaching.
Keep on reading to learn more about the chances of getting pregnant each month or continue to the next section to discover how age affects your odds of conceiving.
Chances of Getting Pregnant by Age
Women are generally conscious of an age-related natural fertility decline. Many, however, are not sure what exactly their odds of pregnancy are at various ages.
Chances of Pregnancy in the 20s
A woman in her 20s has the best chance to get pregnant, about 25% per cycle, as her ovarian reserve is abundant, and the majority of her eggs are chromosomally normal. As such, 96% of 20-year-olds conceive within a year of trying.
Chances of Pregnancy in the 30s
Turning 30 comes with the first reproductive challenges, although a woman's fertility rates continue high with about 86% of women in this age range conceiving within a year. However, fertility at 35 begins to declines at faster rates.
Chances of Pregnancy in the 40s
While there is a 5% chance of conceiving per cycle in the early 40s, it falls down to 1-3% per cycle after 45. Because the majority of the eggs are abnormal and women enter the menopausal transition, fertility at 40 comes with a high risk of complications.
Chances of Pregnancy in the 50s
Getting pregnant naturally after 50 is impossible for most women as they reach menopause in their early 50s, ending their reproductive abilities. After menopause, women can get pregnant only using in vitro fertilization (IVF) with younger donor eggs.
Continue reading for more information about the chances of getting pregnant by age or keep reading below to learn about the probability of pregnancy on birth control.
Chances of Getting Pregnant on Birth Control
A woman's odds of pregnancy mainly depend on two factors: the type of birth control she is on and her diligence in following the schedule.
Failure rates of various contraceptive methods are often based on perfect use, which means a woman is using them as instructed every single time she has sex. In reality, most women practice what is referred to as typical use, which includes human error, such as forgetting the pill.
Most Effective
require no diligence
TYPE
PERFECT USE
TYPICAL USE
Implant
Less than 1%
Less than 1%
IUD
Less than 1%
Less than 1%
Tubal ligation
Less than 0.5%
Less than 0.5%
Very Effective
but require high diligence
TYPE
PERFECT USE
TYPICAL USE
Pill
1%
9%
Patch
1%
9%
Vaginal Ring
1%
9%
Shot
1%
6%
Least Effective
due to high risk of human error
TYPE
PERFECT USE
TYPICAL USE
Barrier methods*
2%
From 12-29%
*(condom, cervical cap, diaphragm, spermicide)
Continue reading more about the likelihood of pregnancy on birth control or check the section below to learn about the chances of pregnancy after stopping birth control.
Chances of Getting Pregnant after Birth Control
Despite common belief, women have the same chances of pregnancy after getting off birth control as those who have not used it.
However, what is more important is how quickly a woman's fertility returns after stopping birth control. For pregnancy to occur, a woman has to be ovulating. Because most birth control methods work by preventing ovulation, it might take time for normal ovulatory cycles to be fully restored.
NO DELAY
TYPE
WHEN DOES OVULATION RETURN
Barrier methods
Immediately
SHORT DELAY
TYPE
WHEN DOES OVULATION RETURN
Pills
1-3 months
Patches
1-3 months
Vaginal rings
1-3 months
IUD
1-3 months
Implants
1-3 months
LONG DELAY
TYPE
WHEN DOES OVULATION RETURN
Shots
9-12 months
Implants
Never, unless after tubal ligation reversal
It is important to remember that how long it takes to conceive depends on other factors as well. Consequently, it can take up to a year for a healthy couple to conceive.
Keep on reading on find out more about chances of pregnancy after getting off birth control or move on to the next section to read about the odds of conception while nursing.
Chances of Getting Pregnant while Breastfeeding
Breastfeeding can be a reliable yet temporary birth control method capable of lowering the odds of conception and helping women with pregnancy spacing, provided it is well understood and properly done.
How Does Breastfeeding Prevent Pregnancy?
Milk production in the breast is stimulated by the hormone prolactin following childbirth. Prolactin inhibits the release of other hormones that normally signal the ovaries to mature the eggs in the preparation for ovulation. Without those hormones, the ovulatory cycle cannot kick off. If a woman is not ovulating, conception cannot occur.
How Likely is it to Get Pregnant while Breastfeeding?
Generally, it is unlikely for a woman who is breastfeeding and whose period has not returned yet to get pregnant. In some cases, however, a woman might ovulate before the arrival of the first post-partum menses.
The likelihood of conceiving while breastfeeding is most commonly determined by the frequency and total amount of time the baby spends at the breasts per 24 hours. The two types of breastfeeding that are commonly used to delay the return of full fertility, exclusive and ecological breastfeeding, can range in their effectiveness varies from 1 to 6%.
Continue on reading for more in-depth information about the chances of getting pregnant while breastfeeding.
Advertisement
Key Takeaways
As couples give conceiving a try, they often anxiously weigh their probability of pregnancy if they do not succeed right away, automatically suspecting infertility problems. In reality, making a baby is not as simple as it may seem, and it may take a healthy couple up to year of active trying to get pregnant.
For starters, learning to time intercourse with a woman's most fertile days takes several months of diligent tracking of menstrual patterns. Although progressing age does not affect men to a great extent, women's fertility is time-limited and rapidly declines after 35 as the ovaries run out of eggs, thus reducing the chances of pregnancy. When time is of the essence, possible fertility delays after stopping birth control might further complicate conception trials. Understanding all of the factors that naturally determine how likely is it to get pregnant is key to optimizing the baby-making process for ultimate success.
Bibliography
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. (2018). Barrier Methods of Birth Control. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.acog.org/~/media/For%20Patients/faq022.pdf?dmc=1&ts=20120604T2122545757
American Pregnancy Association. (2018). Breastfeeding While Pregnant. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from http://americanpregnancy.org/breastfeeding/breastfeeding-while-pregnant/
American Pregnancy Association. (2016). Pregnancy after Tubal Ligation – Is It Possible? Retrieved February 20, 2019 from http://americanpregnancy.org/preventing-pregnancy/pregnancy-tubal-ligation/
Berkeley University. (2011). Your Guide to Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://uhs.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/wellness-womenshealth_breastfeedingguide_0.pdf
Breastfeeding USA. (n.d.). Understanding Your Fertility while Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://breastfeedingusa.org/content/article/understanding-your-fertility-while-breastfeeding
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. (2017). What are the different types of contraception? Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.nichd.nih.gov/health/topics/contraception/conditioninfo/types
Food and Drug Administration. (2018). Birth Control. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.fda.gov/forconsumers/byaudience/forwomen/freepublications/ucm313215.htm
International Journal of Applied & Basic Medical Research. (2014). Female sterilization failure: Review over a decade and its clinicopathological correlation. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4137647/
John Hopkins Medicine. (n.d.). Tubal Ligation. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/test_procedures/gynecology/tubal_ligation_135,27
Mayo Clinic. (2018). Tubal Ligation. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/tubal-ligation/about/pac-20388360
May Clinic. (2018). Tubal Ligation Reversal. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/tubal-ligation-reversal/about/pac-20395158
Natural Family Planning International. (2011). Ecological Breastfeeding and Exclusive Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from http://nfpandmore.org/wordpress/?p=1571
Planned Parenthood. (n.d.). What is the effectiveness of a Tubal Ligation Procedure? Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control/sterilization/how-effective-tubal-ligation
Stanford Medicine. (n.d.). Getting Started with Breastfeeding. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://med.stanford.edu/newborns/professional-education/breastfeeding.html
Washington University of St. Louis. (2015). IUD, implant contraception effective beyond FDA-approved use. Retrieved February 20, 2019 from https://source.wustl.edu/2015/02/iud-implant-contraception-effective-beyond-fdaapproved-use/
How Long Does It Take to Get Pregnant
How Conception Works
Share
Tweet
Pin
Advertisement
The Three Steps to Be Healthier and Feel Great
1
Understand Your Body
A better understanding of how your body works will help you cope with hormonal fluctuations.
Understand Hormones
2
Identify Any Disorder
Detecting symptoms of hormonal imbalance can prevent you from developing serious conditions.
Hormonal Symptoms
3
Get Healthier
Implement simple lifestyle changes and natural approaches to prevent, manage, and relieve symptoms.
Wellness
SheCares.com
SheCares.com is dedicated to providing reliable, up-to-date information and advice on the most common topics in women's health, including PMS, menopause, natural hormones, hormonal conditions, and fertility.
Additional Information
About
Privacy
Terms of use
Sitemap
Find us on
©Copyright 2019. SheCares.com. All Rights Reserved.
The content of these informational pages is for educational purposes and health care support only and does not intend to be used for diagnosis or treatment of a health problem or as substitute for consulting a licensed medical professional.