Food and drugs: Dangerous combinations | Australian Healthy Food Guide
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Home
Recipes
Featured
Salads
Barbecue
Vegetarian
Homemade 'takeaways'
Popular
Baking
Roasts
Asian-style
Vegetarian
Chicken
Weight-loss
Slow cooker
Meals and occasions
Mains
Starters, dips
Breakfast
Snacks, light meals
Desserts
Marinades, rubs
Pasta, rice and noodle dishes
Pies, tarts and flans
Soups
Stir-fries
One-dish meals
Drinks
Collections
5pm panic!
Freezes well
Kids can cook
Low cost
Meals for one
Family favourites
Microwave
Ready in 20 minutes
How to cook the basics
Makeovers
Slow cooker
Work lunches
Special diet
Dairy free
Gluten-free
Diabetes friendly
High calcium
High fibre
High iron
Low kilojoule
Low sodium
Allergy friendly
Seasonal
Autumn
Winter
Spring
Summer
Expert advice
Hot topics
Vegetarian
Organic
Sustainability
Blogs
Andrea Duvall
Brooke Longfield
Nutrition
Additives
Cooking
Eating out
Food safety
Myths
Buying guides
Reading labels
Alcohol
Calcium
Fast food
Fibre
Iron
Oils
Health
Women's health
Pregnancy
Men's health
Children's health
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Babies' health
Cancer
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Heart
Immunity
Low weight
Mental health
Metabolism
Migraines
Resources
BMI calculator
Nutrition guidelines
e-Newsletter
Bristol stool chart
Danger additives
Exercise planner
Portion size guide
Weekly menu planner
Weight
Weight-loss
Exercise
Obesity
Reader Reviews
Video
Win
Magazine
Newsletter
Awards
My HFG
My HFG
Log in
Follow us
Content type
ArticleAsk the expertsAuthorBasic pageBlog entryCampaignCompetitionDateDirectoryExtra LinkExtra optionsGift DetailLanding pageNewsProduct ReviewProduct SubscriptionRecipeRecipe IndexResourceReview ReplyReviewable ProductSliderSponsorWebform
Recipes
Advice
Apply
Food and drugs: Dangerous combinations
If you ever take aspirin, antibiotics or anti-depressants – or any drug for that matter – then you need to read this. Dietitian Tracy Morris reports.
Cholesterol-lowering drugs
These medications are used to lower cholesterol levels, which helps decrease the risk of heart complications, stroke or heart attack.
Drugs and common brands
Statins (eg – Lipitor).
What to watch for
Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice as it increases the bioavailability of these drugs, amplifying their effects and leading to dangerous side-effects such as muscle or liver damage. St John’s wort, a herbal supplement used to elevate mood, can make statins less effective. Instead, boost your mood by upping your omega-3 intake with fish oil.
Health tip
Psyllium husks can provide an added benefit to lowering total and LDL-cholesterol levels, when used in combination with statin drugs.
Anti-hypertensive drugs
These drugs help lower high blood pressure (hypertension), and are often prescribed to people with congestive heart failure, or after a heart attack.
Drugs and common brands
ACE inhibitors (eg – Perindopril), angiotensin II receptor blockers (eg – Atacand), calcium-channel blockers (eg – Adalat), diuretics (eg – Lasix).
What to watch for
Avoid or limit alcohol, as it can lower blood pressure and enhance the side effects associated with these medications.
ACE inhibitors: Don’t be tempted to use potassium-based salt substitutes (No Salt) or take potassium supplements, as this can result in high levels of potassium, and cause abnormal heart rhythms.
Calcium-channel blockers: Peppermint oil and grapefruit juice may increase the effects of this particular drug, so it’s best to avoid them. Additionally, coffee and tea may reduce their effect, so drink these in moderation.
Diuretics: People with diabetes taking diuretics may experience high blood glucose levels, so it’s important to regularly monitor blood glucose levels. Licorice should also be avoided as it interferes with the drug. Diuretics can deplete the amount of available potassium, since you lose potassium when urinating, so include foods rich in this mineral, such as bananas, potatoes and tomatoes.
Health tip
Have your sodium and potassium levels checked regularly by your doctor if you’re taking anti-hypertensive medication.
Antibiotics
Antibiotics are used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections, either by killing bacteria or stopping the bacteria from multiplying.
Drugs and common brands
Erythromycin (eg – Eryc), methenamine (eg – Hiprex), metronidazole (eg – Flagyl), penicillins, tetracyclines (eg – Achromycin), amoxycillin (eg – Augmentin, Amoxil).
What to watch for
It’s best to avoid drinking alcohol when taking any antibiotic, but especially metronidazole (Flagyl), as it can cause flushing, headache, palpitations, nausea and vomiting.
Tetracyclines: Calcium reduces the absorption of this drug, so avoid taking tetracycline within two hours of taking calcium supplements or eating food high in calcium (milk, cheese, or yoghurt).
Methenamine: Cranberries, plums, prunes and their juices enhance the action of methenamine by increasing the acidity of urine, and should be avoided. You may also be recommended to avoid citrus juices, milk and antacids while taking the drug.
Health tip
Avoid taking iron supplements while on antibiotics, since they can reduce or prevent the ability of the antibiotics to fight infection.
Anti-anxiety drugs
There are many different types of anti-anxiety drugs, all designed to reduce the symptoms of anxiety.
Drugs and common brands
Benzodiazepines (eg – Valium, Diazepam), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (eg – Zoloft).
What to watch for
Benzodiazepines: Guarana may reduce the effects of the drug. When taking Valium, avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice, as it may increase the level of the drug in the blood, resulting in confusion or excessive drowsiness.
SSRIs: when combined with St John’s wort, there is a risk of dangerously high levels of serotonin.
Health tip
Alcohol should not be consumed when taking anti-anxiety medication, since it increases the drowsiness caused by these drugs.
Anti-diabetic drugs
Certain medications are used to lower the blood glucose levels of people with diabetes.
Drugs and common brands
Metformin (eg – Diabex), sulphonylureas (eg – Diamicron, Gliclazide), meglitinides (eg – Novonorm), glucosidase inhibitors (eg – Glucobay) and insulin (eg – Novorapid).
What to watch for
It’s important to eat regular meals when taking anti-diabetic medication, since taking them without eating can cause blood sugar levels to drop. Additionally, drinking alcohol whilst taking these medications can cause low blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia), so limit or avoid alcohol and never drink on an empty stomach.
Metformin: This drug can affect your body’s ability to absorb vitamin B12, so ensure your diet contains plenty of rich sources, such as meat, chicken, fish, eggs, dairy and mushrooms. Be sure to have your vitamin B12 blood levels checked annually, and check with your doctor if you think you need to take a supplement.
Diamicron: This drug may decrease the uptake of iodine by the thyroid, resulting in an enlarged thyroidgland, so have your thyroid function checked often.
Glucobay: This drug works by slowing down the digestion of carbohydrates, so eating sucrose-rich foods (table sugar or foods with added sucrose) or too many carbohydrates may cause stomach discomfort and diarrhoea.
Health tip
A recent study shows taking calcium supplements may help to prevent the drop in vitamin B12 levels seen when taking metformin.
Anti-coagulants
These medications are prescribed to people with an irregular heartbeat, pulmonary embolism or to people who have had a heart attack, to reduce the risk of blood clots.
Drugs and common brands
Aspirin (eg – Disprin), warfarin (eg – Coumadin).
What to watch for
Aspirin: can affect iron levels, particularly in the elderly, so it’s vital to have blood levels checked regularly. Caffeine increases aspirin absorption, so it’s a good idea to reduce your intake. And always take aspirin after eating, as it can cause gastric irritation. Alcohol can increase this irritation, so avoid or limit it.
Warfarin: Fish oil supplements, vitamin E supplements, psyllium husks, cranberry juice and St John’s wort can all interfere with warfarin. But talk to your doctor before starting or stopping these foods and supplements.
Health tip
Warfarin metabolism is affected by vitamin K, so talk to your doctor before altering your intake of vitamin K-rich foods (such as spinach, broccoli and Brussels sprouts). In general, aim to eat your usual amount, but not more than 500g, of foods high in vitamin K a day.
Anti-convulsants
Anti-convulsants control or prevent seizures in people with epilepsy.
Drugs and common brands
Carbamazepine (eg – Tegretol, Teril).
What to watch for
Avoid alcohol since it can affect seizure control and interfere with the drug treatment. These drugs may decrease absorption of folate, vitamin B6 and calcium, and can interfere with vitamin D metabolism (resulting in osteomalacia, softening of the bones). Supplements may be required.
Carbamazepine: This drug can react with various supplements, including St John’s wort, gingko biloba and evening primrose oil, so always check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking supplements. Epilepsy Australia recommends avoiding grapefruit juice and Seville oranges as they interfere with the way the body absorbs and breaks down these drugs.
Health tip
Energy drinks (and guarana) should be avoided by people taking epilepsy medication, as the high levels of caffeine create a strong stimulatory effect, which can cause seizures.
Anti-depressants
There are many different types of anti-depressants on the market, used to treat depression or obsessive compulsive disorder, and control mood.
Drugs and common brands
Monoamine oxidise inhibitors (MAOIs) (eg – Nardil, Parnate), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (eg – Zoloft).
What to watch for
SSRIs: See anti-anxiety drugs for more info on possible interactions.
MAOIs: Foods high in tyramine (such as cheese, aged meats, sausages, liver, soy sauce, red wine and certain beers) and products containing caffeine can lead to severe headaches and dangerous increases in blood pressure. Tell your doctor if you are taking supplements, like St John’s wort or tryptophan, as high levels of serotonin may result. This can be potentially life-threatening.
Health tip
People taking MAOIs should avoid foods, beverages, or medications sweetened with aspartame, as this contains phenylalanine which may cause a severe increase in blood pressure.
Antacids
Antacids decrease the amount of acid made in the stomach, treat heartburn (or acid reflux) and ulcers, and can control certain bacteria in the stomach.
Drugs and common brands
Aluminium, magnesium or calcium antacids (eg – Tums, Mylanta), proton pump inhibitors (eg – Nexium), H2 blockers (eg – Zantac).
What to watch for
Acid-reducing drugs have been shown to reduce the absorption of iron and certain B vitamins (thiamin, folate and vitamin B12), potentially causing a deficiency.
Excessive intakes of calcium-carbonate containing antacids – such as Tums – combined with a calciumrich diet can lead to kidney problems, so stick to the recommended dose and don’t take them for longer than necessary.
Health tip
Long-term use of Mylanta, Nexium and Zantac may increase the risk of bone fractures by reducing the body’s ability to absorb calcium. Speak to your doctor to ensure you are taking the minimum required dose and never take more than what your doctor has prescribed.
Sedatives
Sedatives can be prescribed by your doctor to treat insomnia and other sleep disorders.
Drugs and common brands
Aolpidem (eg – Stilnox), triazolam (eg – Halcion). benzodiazepines (eg – Valium, Diazepam). See anti-anxiety drugs for more on possible interactions.
What to watch for
Do not drink any alcohol whilst taking sedatives as it can make the side effects worse.
Triazolam: Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while taking this drug.
Health tip
People have been known to drive, eat and have conversations while partially asleep after taking triazolam or Stilnox, with no recollection once they awaken. You should contact your doctor immediately if you experience any memory loss.
Anti-osteoporosis medication
People with osteoporosis, or those at risk of developing osteoporosis, may be prescribed these medications to prevent losing bone mass.
Drugs and common brands
Bisphosphonates (eg – Fosamax).
What to watch for
Food, drinks and vitamins, even something as seemingly innocuous as mineral water, can reduce the absorption and effectiveness of these drugs, so pharmacists recommend taking the medication with plain water at least 30–60 minutes before having anything else to eat or drink.
Health tip
Iron can decrease the absorption of Fosamax, so if you are taking iron supplements, have them at least two hours before or after your medication.
Potentially hazardous herbs
The following herbal supplements interact with certain drugs and should be avoided if taking the medication.
Herb Don't mix with Risks
Echinacea
Immunosuppressant, such as corticosteroids
Reduces immunosuppressant effect.
Evening Primrose
Anti-convulsants
Anti-coagulants
Reduces the effectiveness of anti-convulsants. Increases risk of bleeding.
Gingko Biloba
Warfarin
Anti-convulsants
Diuretics
Increases risk of bleeding. Reduces effectiveness. Increases blood pressure.
Ginseng
Anti-diabetic drugs
Hormone Replacement Therapy drugs
Anti-depressants
Risk of low blood glucose levels. Enhances oestrogen effects. Insomnia, headaches, agitation and worsening of depression.
St John’s Wort
Anti-anxiety and anti-depressants
Statins
Oral contraceptives
Dangerously high serotonin levels. Reduces effectiveness.
Did you know? The food most likely to interact with common medications is grapefruit!
Tags:
Other
Recipe by:
Tracy Morris
First published:
July, 2010
Shares
Shares
More articles
Most viewed
Your diet and kidney health
One in three Australians is at risk of developing kidney disease, yet most of us ...
Ask the experts: Wound healing
Q: “I seem to always be getting cuts and grazes that take ages to heal. Could cha...
Ask the experts: Detox diets
The Lemon Detox Diet? The raw food trend? Fasting? HFG nutrition director Catheri...
Science update: Eat your way to a longer life
Telomeres are making headlines around the world. Here’s what you should know abou...
Food, FODMAPs and IBS: What to eat and what to avoid
Scientific studies have proven that a low-FODMAP diet can significantly relieve I...
The best and worst takeaway
Did you know that Australians eat takeaway or restaurant food an average of four...
Your guide to meal replacements
Are meal replacements a safe and healthy way to lose weight? HFG dietitian Zoe Wi...
10 easy ways to lower your cholesterol every day
HFG dietitian Zoe Wilson shows you some simple and practical steps to help bring ...
About Us
Contact us
Our philosophy
The HFG team
Editorial advisory board
Letters to the editor
Advertising
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
References
Recipes
Low kJ meals big on flavour
Gluten-free meals and snacks
Cooking with quinoa
Vegetarian
Tasty tatters
Low fat
Desserts
Baking
Expert Advice
Weight-loss and exercise
Food and nutrients
Shopping
Children's health
Men's health
Health and medical
Women's health
Pregnancy
Ask the experts
Shop
Subscribe now
Back issues
Merchandise
Follow us
© Healthy Life Media Limited
All rights reserved
Reproduction without permission prohibited
Share this