The Astonishing Claims of the Oil Pullers: How to Heal Cavities Naturally | Humans Are Free
Page
HOME
AUTHORS
DONATE
FORUM
PRIVACY POLICY
ads.txt
Social
Facebook
Twitter
Google plus
Subscribe
Humans Are Free
The legacy we leave to our future generations. Let's be the change and make the world a better place! ♥
BSA Header
Category
Home
News
Health
Control
Cosmos
Spirituality
Forbidden History
Conspiracy-Facts
Finance
Documentaries
.
The Astonishing Claims of the Oil Pullers: How to Heal Cavities Naturally
We discovered an astonishing report made by people practicing the art of oil pulling for dental health. (The link to the report follows afte...
Healthcare, Recent Articles
8:30 AM
A+ A-
Print Email
http://humansarefree.com/2017/11/the-astonishing-claims-of-oil-pullers.html
We discovered an astonishing report made by people practicing the art of oil pulling for dental health. (The link to the report follows after our introduction to the topic and further research.)
A husband and wife couple experimented with oil pulling (swishing coconut oil in the mouth for 20 minutes each day) and claim assertively that their cavities have healed as a result, leaving their teeth in far better condition than they were previously!
They give a good explanation of the theory behind their claims and it makes good reading.
Their claims are highly controversial because they go directly against the position of orthodox dentistry – which takes the view that cavities are “permanent” and that teeth simply cannot regenerate; requiring fillings or other procedures to repair the teeth.
Note: image is for illustrative purposes only. We make no guarantees of results using this method; we are merely reporting on the findings and personal claims made by others. (Image: HerbsAndOilsWorld.com, with permission)
I too was of the belief (no doubt like almost everybody else) that cavities are “incurable” – and that once you get a cavity, a trip to the dentist is required – no real choice in the matter – to get a filling or perhaps a more serious (and costly) procedure.
And like most others I simply believed what I had been told – which is that there’s “no way back” from a cavity… that “the only way is down” as far as dental health is concerned, and that the best we can do is to try to prevent our teeth from getting any worse.
And yet – this never quite made sense to me. I often asked myself “Why is it that our other parts have evolved to last a lifetime, yet our teeth do not?
Why can broken bones mend, but not damaged teeth?” Has anyone else ever thought about how weird this is? It just doesn’t really compute if you look at the bigger picture. Why would our teeth not last a lifetime?
It turns out that this is actually a very good question. Perhaps we should be looking for the answers in the kind of world that our bodies were evolutionarily designed for i.e. that of pre-agricultural times! Could it be that tooth decay is entirely a product of agricultural era?
This topic gets pretty deep…
The first time I came across the notion that “perfect teeth” could be achieved outside of the scope of dentistry was through the work of award winning film maker Alan Ereira – who made a sensational documentary (truly worth watching!) in the early 1990’s about the remote and ancient Kogi Indian tribe of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia.
I met Ereira when he gave a lecture on the topic and he stated that the Kogi all had perfect teeth – something very surprising to him as they had no access whatsoever to dental treatment.
He had been expecting them to have many missing teeth, as people in “civilization” do after years without dental care. He was astonished by their level of health and longevity and I’ll never forget his line “Not even their horses had flies on them”.
Others have since theorized that the superb dental health of some tribal people is attributable to the wild environment from which they derive their food. Their diet is not derived from mineral-depleted soils such as those of the typical agricultural environment.
So I was astonished when I then discovered a brilliantly written (but controversial) article by “The Wellness Mama” about the breakthrough dental discoveries of Dr. Weston A. Price.
The Wellness Mama’s brilliant article reports on the work of Dr. Weston A. Price, a dentist who traveled around the world, investigating and comparing the dental health of people in remote indigenous tribal groups.
Although one might expect that people without any access whatsoever to modern dental care would have very poor dental health, Dr. Price discovered that some of these people typically had perfect teeth. How was this even possible?
Similar findings have also been reported by explorers who have visited tribes that were completely disconnected from the modern world.
It gets even more interesting: Dr. Price reports that when modern processed foods were introduced into the diets of these people, degeneration of their dental health began.
Price’s research led him finally to the astounding conclusion that not only is a natural diet rich in bioavailable minerals essential to good dental health, but that if the right diet was employed, not only did tooth decay cease but it actually began to heal.
Dr. Price’s book “Nutrition and Physical Degeneration” is currently receiving an incredible string of five-star reviews on Amazon.com. In short, people are raving about his work!
Price is one of a group of researchers whose work indicates that degenerative disease is a product of the modern diet.
Could this be revealing a deep flaw in the modern agricultural method? It’s been claimed that lichens and other microorganisms chelate the minerals from the rocks and that the use of chemical pesticides, killing these essential components of the “living soil”, causes the mineral content of produce to be depleted.
Ever wondered why non-organic produce generally has a bland flavor, pale color and lower nutritional content? Something to think about, isn’t it?
It appears that the oil pulling technique may have a similar action of cleansing and remineralizing the teeth. Clearly more research is needed before this can be considered proven – but this is truly an exciting idea and one that deserves full investigation!
Here's the full oil pulling cavity reversal report:
Healing Cavities (A True “We’ve-Done-It!” Story!)
by Trina Holden
Oh, people. I”m about to reveal something to you that has taken me months to work up the nerve to confess. Are you ready for this? {I’m not sure I am, but here goes…}
I haven’t used toothpaste in over a year.
Oh my gosh. I can’t believe I just said that out loud. On the internet. I guess now I have to explain myself, huh?
Exploring alternate tooth care…
In 2013 I started looking into natural tooth care, as part of my goal to make better, more natural choices in each area of my health and my household.
I thought we had been doing good in this area, using a ‘natural’ brand toothpaste. Until I realized that even my natural toothpaste had stuff I knew I wanted to avoid–like sweeteners, fluoride, and glycerin.
It didn’t take long as I looking into natural, holistic approaches to tooth care to realize that what we eat has so much more of an affect on our teeth than the substance we scrub them with, and maybe my search for a ‘safe’ toothpaste was a waste of energy.
And then I read about people not using toothpaste at all, and, well, since toothpaste (and the alternatives people talked about using) has always given me the ibby-jibbies, I decided to just quit the habit entirely.
So, I just scrubbed with water. And it seemed to work fine.
What in the world is Oil Pulling?
Later, I heard about oil pulling. It was such a strange term, I didn’t even look into it for a while. Till I realized that the pain and sensitivity I had been experiencing in my teeth off an on for a while might be remedied through this idea.
So, I read up on it — it made sense (coconut oil is anti-bacterial, and could pull toxins from your mouth when you swished it in your mouth for 15-20 min.) — and I tried it.
I posted the above photo on my Facebook page and had a lot of friends ask me to report how it worked. So, here’s the report:
I loved how my teeth felt on this new cleansing routine — I felt it reduced plaque and made my teeth stronger. Within a month, all sensitivity I’d been experiencing in my lower molars was gone.
So, I quit toothpaste, and replaced it with oil pulling, and my teeth have never been healthier.
Now, that’s my story, but I put a ‘we’ in the title, because Jeremy’s got a story, too.
And Then Mr. Holden Tried It…
Several months ago, my husband came up to me and said, “I think I have a cavity.” I looked in his mouth and was mortified. His back wisdom tooth was — I kid you not — green and brown and black and pitted, and definitely did not look healthy. Neither of us had ever had a cavity before, but I was pretty sure this was a case study.
I said, “Honey! You need to start oil pulling right away!”
Well, you know, he kinda looked at me the way I imagine you looked at me when I said I quit toothpaste.
But a week later, he felt a chunk flake off of said tooth, and the next morning he pulled out the coconut oil before breakfast. (It’s suggested that you rinse first thing in the am).
He began oil pulling faithfully every morning, as well as taking cod liver oil (upping nutrition was something I read was key to regenerating tooth decay). Within 3 days, he said the pain was gone.
And a month later, after oil pulling 5-6 times a week, I looked in his mouth, and his tooth was — are you ready for this? — White. White with a bit of yellow, but the black and green and brown had disappeared. The hole the infection had created remained, but all infection and pain was gone.
People, I am not lyin’ here. Tooth regeneration is possible, and surprisingly simple…
God designed our bodies so incredibly. If we are nourishing our bodies well, He designed them to be able to heal from injury and disease — even our teeth.
I share our stories because the idea of ‘healing your teeth’ is quite foreign to people. But listen to this:
“That tooth decay is caused by nutrient deficiencies and not bacteria has been proven in both animal and laboratory experiments published in books and dental journals…
“… If brushing, flossing, massive fluoridation campaigns, and dental surgery were effective in preventing tooth decay, it would not get worse over time. It would stay the same, or get better.” (Ramiel Nagel of CureToothDecay.com)
But that’s not what’s happening, is it? It has become normal to have our teeth rot out of our head, starting not in our 60’s, or 40’s, but as children and even babies.
“What is missing from the ADA’s bacteria theory of cavities is that strong teeth resist acid and bacteria. And when you, the consumer, understand that a strong tooth resists acid indefinitely, then the next logical question is, what makes a tooth strong?” (Ramiel Nagel)
The answer, which Ramiel details in his ebook (linked below) is good nutrition. And you know what it means when I use that term around here… lots of whole foods, good fat, raw milk, tasty meats and properly prepared grains and veggies.
Ramiel especially stresses whole, raw milk in the diet and plenty of deeply nourishing fats like butter oil and cod liver oil.
So, gotta a toothache? Wish you had stronger teeth? Don’t despair. You can actually do something other than have them all pulled and getting dentures. (Oh, yay!) Increase your nutrition and try oil pulling!
How to Oil Pull With Coconut Oil
Scoop about 2 tsp. of coconut oil out of your jar and pop it in your mouth.
Chew or hold the oil in your mouth till it melts and becomes liquid (takes about 30 seconds).
Start swishing, pulling the oil back and forth and sideways through all your teeth.
Swish for 20 min., spitting the oil out (into the trash) when you’re finished.
Why Oil Pulling works:
Your teeth are actually porous, comprised of yards and yards of minute passages (like a sponge) that bring nutrients to the outer enamel when good nutrition is present in your diet… or suck toxins into the teeth when nutrition is lacking.
Oil itself has the ability to cut right through plaque to the tooth surface, and coconut oil in particular has rich, anti-bacterial properties. It’s believed that one of the reasons oil pulling strengthens teeth is that it can help reverse the flow of toxins, pulling bacteria out of the teeth, and becoming a vehicle to dispose of toxins.
Also, we’ve found the swishing action can be as effective as flossing, without any damage to gums (yes – I’ve gotten popcorn kernels out with oil pulling!)
Where to get good Coconut Oil:
Any organic, cold-pressed, virgin coconut oil will work for this. If it smells like coconut, that’s a sign that it hasn’t been over-processed and still has all the wonderful things God put in the coconut to begin with!
You’re looking for coconut oil that is cold pressed, extra virgin, and organic, like this brand available right from Amazon (this is an affiliate links – thanks for helping me keep the lights on around here!).
Remember, oil pulling is just part of a natural tooth care plan. Our teeth will be strong when our bodies are well nourished with plenty of whole, nourishing foods. For help getting you and your family switched over to a more nourishing diet, check out Your Real Food Journey.
Sources: Herbs-info.com; TrinaHolden.com
Dear Friends,
HumansAreFree is and will always be free to access and use. If you appreciate my work, please help me continue.
Subscribe for daily articles:
Related
Recent Articles 7229676682641154196
Newer Post Older Post Home item
Humans Are Free
One time contribution:
Patreon
Become a Patron!
recommended
Over 30,000 Scientists Declare Climate Change A Hoax
A staggering 30,000+ scientists have come forward confirming that man-made climate change is a hoax perpetuated by the elite in order to ma...
Top Scientist Resigns: 'Global Warming is a $Trillions Scam — It has Corrupted Many Scientists'
The following is a letter to the American Physical Society released to the public by Professor Emiritus of physics Harold 'Hal' Lewi...
Awakening to the Fifth Dimension
Much has been written, spoken and channeled about the Fifth Dimension and humanity’s ascension into this new realm of existence. In additi...
The Most Natural Exercise in the World Cuts Cardiovascular Death by 50 Percent
Walking is associated with a greater than 50 percent reduction in cardiovascular death in people over the age of 65, says a new study. "...
Told She Would Die, Canadian Mom Credits Cannabis Oil for Surviving Cancer
Doctors told her to prepare to die, but she took cannabis oil instead. by Phillip Schneider, Waking Times It was 2009 when Canadian Che...
The Palpa Lines: Created 1000 Years Prior to the Nazca Lines
The mysterious Palpa Lines are believed to have been created 1000 years prior to the more famous Nazca Lines. by ancient-code Researcher...
America is Under Attack by 187 Groups Funded by George Soros
Notorious globalist billionaire George Soros has gone on the record threatening to “take down President Trump” and promising an audience a...
DNC Staffer Arrested For Possessing ‘Infant Porn’ Featuring Babies as Young as 6 Months Old
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio is hiring! There’s a vacancy in his administration for a computer programmer analyst, in the Department o...
New Vaccines Will Permanently Alter Human DNA
Why is the government so maniacal about injecting vaccines? by Jon Rappoport Consider this article in light of the accelerating push to mand...
7 Scientifically Proven Health Benefits of Magic Mushrooms
Psilocybin mushrooms might just be the “next best thing” in holistic healing and wellness. Also known as “ magic mushrooms ”, there are mo...
Subscribe
Subscribe for daily articles:
Tabs
Translate
Recommended
Shocking Connection: 97% of all Terminal Cancer Patients Previously Had This Dental Procedure...
Do you have a chronic degenerative disease? If so, have you been told, “It’s all in your head?” Well, that might not be that far from the tr...
Was MH-17 in Fact the 'Lost' Flight MH-370? Analysis
Clarifications, after new information emerged Alternative media websites and myself have suggested that the plane wreckage presented to us...
He Demolished His House Just Before the Bank Could Take it Away - A Truck Delievered the Remains in Front of the Bank
In the end of 2013 a man from Lovech-Bulgaria who could not afford to pay the mortgage for his house gave his last penny to demolish it righ...
Shield Your Body From Fukushima Radiation With 10 Natural Foods
Try These Natural Remedies to Protect Your Body From Fukushima Radiation Japanese officials have recently admitted the grim truth that si...
Top 7 Reasons to Question the Official Story of MH17
With the recent shooting down of a Malaysian Boeing 777 over Ukraine, the Western media is aflame with fingerpointing at Russia and Ukrainia...
New Study Confirms: 'We Become Friends With Genetically Similar People'
Our friends seem to be genetically more similar to us than strangers, according to a new U.S. scientific study led by prominent Greek-Americ...
These 13 Families Rule the World: The Shadow Forces Behind the NWO
The shadow forces behind the New World Order (NWO) are following a slow-paced agenda of total control over mankind and our planet's res...
The UN Is Normalizing Pedophilia: The Deep State Is Free to Prey Upon Your Children
The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights is sanctioning a sexual revolution that will culminate in the legalizati...
BREAKING News: Flight 370 Passenger Managed to Send Photo From Hidden iPhone Tracing Back to U.S. Military Base Diego Garcia
INDIAN OCEAN (INTELLIHUB) — According to freelance journalist Jim Stone, one of the American passengers, Phillip Wood , a technical storage ...
Tag cloud
5G Dangers (39) About me (3) Agenda 2030 (17) Alzheimer's (14) Archons (8) Art. in German (33) Ayahuasca (13) Big Brother (120) Big Pharma (35) Bilderberg (25) Bill Gates (14) Black Knight (2) Brexit (1) Brzezinski (1) Caeli Francisco (24) Cancer (356) Censorship (60) Chemtrails (83) Child Trafficking (1) Clinton (53) Cold War 2 (61) Consciousness (31) Conspiracy (1180) Control (1054) Cosmos (219) Crisis Actors (9) Crop Circles (10) Crystal Skulls (1) Deep State (3) Dejan Davchevski (29) Demonic Possession (6) Depopulation (155) Detox (2) Diabetes (7) Disney (6) Documentaries (155) DuPont (2) Ebola (5) Education (97) EMP Dangers (1) Empaths (39) ETs UFOs (627) Evil Corporations (2) False Flags (148) Fasting (10) FEMA (4) Feminism (9) Finance (186) Fluoride (28) Forbidden History (605) Free Energy (63) Free Spirit (8) Freemasonry (15) Fukushima (63) Geoengineering (83) George Soros (34) Giants (1) Global Warming Hoax (60) GMO (64) Grounding (7) Guest Writers (5) HAARP (20) Healthcare (1816) Hemp (144) Henry Kissinger (5) Hollow Earth (20) Illuminati (71) Inspiration (769) Inspirational Public Figures (31) Internet of Things (10) JFK (18) Julian Websdale (17) Julie Alexander (29) Khali Carol (7) Laura Jane (3) Lisa Morris (1) Lucy Alvet (2) Makia Freeman (4) Mandela Effect (6) Mari A. Raphael (2) Mark Nestmann (12) Medical Kidnapping (15) Meditation (24) Michael Martin (6) Microchip Implant (23) Migrant Crisis (46) Mind Control (145) Monsanto (58) MSM (100) Mysteries (494) News (1337) Nikola Tesla (20) Nuclear Hazard (53) NWO (304) Occult Knowledge (57) OOPArt (15) Orlando Shooting (6) Papal Bloodlines (1) PhD Anonymous (22) Pienaar Arno (16) Pineal Gland (15) PizzaGate (9) Planet X (5) Podesta (1) Pole Shift (11) Police State (76) Preppers (30) Project MKUltra (35) Propaganda (48) Pyramids (76) Q and A (5) Quotes (14) Recent Articles (7515) Reincarnation (57) Religion (6) Rene’ Descartes (11) Rockefeller (25) Rothschild (81) Sacred Geometry (1) Sacred Water (8) Sandy Hook (2) Satanism (91) Satanist Pedophiles (347) Science (205) Secret Societies (43) Secret Space Program (20) SJW (1) Smart Meters (1) Spirituality (1068) Sponsor Books (3) Stephanie MacDonald (3) Strange Murders (3) Subscribe (1) Sun-gazing (1) Sustainable Housing (6) Symbolism (2) Synchronicity (9) The Anunnaki (115) The Bush Family (6) The Matrix (122) The Vatican (53) Time Travel (11) Transgender Agenda (1) Transhumanism (7) TROLLS (8) Vaccines (249) Videos (268) Voting is Rigged (23) War (104) War on Cash (6) War on Drugs (15) Weather Terrorism (1) Wheatgrass (1) Wi-Fi Dangers (42) Wisdom (50) WTC (9/11) (73) Zephyr Prayers (3) Zika Virus (16) Zionism (13) Zodiac (12)
Sponsors
Pageviews
©Copyright 2013 Humans Are Free @ HumansAreFree.com
Scroll
item
5G Dangers About me Agenda 2030 Alzheimer's Archons Art. in German Ayahuasca Big Brother Big Pharma Bilderberg Bill Gates Black Knight Brexit Brzezinski Caeli Francisco Cancer Censorship Chemtrails Child Trafficking Clinton Cold War 2 Consciousness Conspiracy Control Cosmos Crisis Actors Crop Circles Crystal Skulls Deep State Dejan Davchevski Demonic Possession Depopulation Detox Diabetes Disney Documentaries DuPont Ebola Education EMP Dangers Empaths ETs UFOs Evil Corporations False Flags Fasting FEMA Feminism Finance Fluoride Forbidden History Free Energy Free Spirit Freemasonry Fukushima Geoengineering George Soros Giants Global Warming Hoax GMO Grounding Guest Writers HAARP Healthcare Hemp Henry Kissinger Hollow Earth Illuminati Inspiration Inspirational Public Figures Internet of Things JFK Julian Websdale Julie Alexander Khali Carol Laura Jane Lisa Morris Lucy Alvet Makia Freeman Mandela Effect Mari A. Raphael Mark Nestmann Medical Kidnapping Meditation Michael Martin Microchip Implant Migrant Crisis Mind Control Monsanto MSM Mysteries News Nikola Tesla Nuclear Hazard NWO Occult Knowledge OOPArt Orlando Shooting Papal Bloodlines PhD Anonymous Pienaar Arno Pineal Gland PizzaGate Planet X Podesta Pole Shift Police State Preppers Project MKUltra Propaganda Pyramids Q and A Quotes Recent Articles Reincarnation Religion Rene’ Descartes Rockefeller Rothschild Sacred Geometry Sacred Water Sandy Hook Satanism Satanist Pedophiles Science Secret Societies Secret Space Program SJW Smart Meters Spirituality Sponsor Books Stephanie MacDonald Strange Murders Subscribe Sun-gazing Sustainable Housing Symbolism Synchronicity The Anunnaki The Bush Family The Matrix The Vatican Time Travel Transgender Agenda Transhumanism TROLLS Vaccines Videos Voting is Rigged War War on Cash War on Drugs Weather Terrorism Wheatgrass Wi-Fi Dangers Wisdom WTC (9/11) Zephyr Prayers Zika Virus Zionism Zodiac