Fruit juice linked to increased diabetes risk
Foodconsumer.org
USCards.com Bookmark Us
All Food, Diet and Health News
Misc. News
Must-Read News
Letter to Editor
Featured Products
Recalls & Alerts
Consumer Affair
Non-food Things
Health Tips
Interesting Sites
Diet & Health
Heart & Blood
Cancer
Body Weight
Children & Women
General Health
Nutrition
Food & Health
Food Chemicals
Biological Agents
Cooking & Packing
Technologies
Agri. & Environ.
Laws & Politics
General Health
Drug News
Diseases
Mental Health
Infectious Disease
Environment
Lifestyle
Government
Other News
Food Consumer
FC News & Others
Search
All Categories Misc. News - Must-Read News - Letter to Editor - Featured Products - Recalls & Alerts - Consumer Affair - Non-food Things - Health Tips - Interesting Sites Diet & Health - Heart & Blood - Cancer - Body Weight - Children & Women - General Health - Nutrition Food & Health - Food Chemicals - Biological Agents - Cooking & Packing - Technologies - Agri. & Environ. - Laws & Politics General Health - Drug News - Diseases - Mental Health - Infectious Disease - Environment - Lifestyle - Government - Other News Food Consumer - FC News & Others
Advanced Search
Search Foodconsumer & Others
Newsfeed
Su bmit news[release]
More than 100 credit cards available at uscards.com
Diet & Health : General Health Last Updated: Apr 20, 2011 - 9:38:09 AM
Fruit juice linked to increased diabetes risk
By Sue Mueller
Jul 16, 2008 - 6:53:25 PM
E.mail t.his a.rticle
P.rinter f.riendly p.age
Get n.ewsletter
WEDNESDAY July 16, 2008 (foodconsumer.org) -- When it comes to type 2 diabetes, whole fruit and fruit juice do not have equal effects. A study suggests that fruit juice may increase risk of type 2 diabetes in women while whole fruit has an opposite effect.
The study showed that eating an additional three servings of whole fruit each day was linked to a lower risk of developing diabetes. Eating one additional serving of spinach, kale or similar green leafy vegetables was also tied to a lower risk of developing the disease.
But an additional serving of fruit juice was linked to increased risk of type 2 diabetes that affects more than 25 million Americans.
The effects were observed during an 18-year period among 71,000 women enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study.
For the study, Dr. Lydia A. Bazzano of Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans and colleagues analyzed data on the diets of Nurses and found 4,529 cases of diabetes during the follow-up.
For the analysis, the nurses were divided into five groups based on their dietary habits, namely their consumption of fruit and vegetables and fruit juice.
The researchers found an increase of three servings of whole fruit daily was correlated with an 18 percent lower risk of diabetes and a single additional serving of green leafy vegetables was associated with a 9 percent reduction.
However, an additional daily serving of fruit juice was linked with an 18 percent increase in the risk of type 2 diabetes.
Bazzano was cited by Reuters as saying that fruit juice could increase the risk because "it's a big sugar load and it comes in a liquid form which is absorbed rapidly."
The results published in the July, 2008 issue of the journal Diabetes Care suggests that fruit juice is not like whole fruit and caution needs to be exercised when fruit juice is recommended as a replacement for whole fruit.
The difference in health benefits between fruit juice and whole fruit has been reported in other studies.
© 2004-2008 by foodconsumer.org unless otherwise specified
Top of Page
Web foodconsumer.org
Search Consumer-friendly Health Sites
Watch the latest videos on YouTube.com
We have moved to Food Consumer . Org
disclaimer | advertising | jobs | privacy | about us | newsletter | Submit news/articles
link partners: | Buy Viagra | MarketAmerica.com |
Buy a home | Auto Insurance | Mortgage refinancing | DaytonaCPA.com | Take Your Blog to a Higher Level
© Copyright 2004 - 2008 foodconsumer.org All rights reserved
Disclaimer: What's published on this website should be considered opinions of respective writers only and foodconsumer.org which has no political agenda nor commercial ambition may or may not endorse any opinion of any writer. No accuracy is guaranteed although writers are doing their best to provide accurate information only. The information on this website should not be construed as medical advice and should not be used to replace professional services provided by qualified or licensed health care workers. The site serves only as a platform for writers and readers to share knowledge, experience, and information from the scientific community, organizations, government agencies and individuals. Foodconsumer.org encourages readers who have had medical conditions to consult with licensed health care providers - conventional and or alternative medical practitioners.