Processed Meats Increase Colorectal Cancer Risk, New Report
AICR'S ITHRIVE PLAN
RECIPES
CANCER HEALTH CHECK
SHOP
Donate Now
Planned Giving
Memorial Gifts
Car Donations
Home
Reduce Your Cancer Risk
Diet
How healthy is your diet?
A cancer-protective diet
Healthy recipes
Nutrition facts
Phytochemicals in your food
Red and processed meat
Sugar and cancer risk
Alcohol and cancer risk
Physical Activity
Are you active enough?
Physical activity and cancer risk
Getting started
Weight
Are you a healthy weight?
Obesity and cancer risk
Lose weight the healthy way
Weight loss, myths vs facts
Cancer Risk and Other Lifestyle Factors
Cancer Prevention
Recommendations
Other Lifestyle Factors
Hot Topics
Recommendations for Cancer Prevention
Sign up for epubs
Resources
Cancer Sites
Cancer Prevention Month
Campaign website
A 30-Day Cancer Prevention Checklist
Foods that Fight Cancer
Cancer Health Check
Our Research
Third Expert Report
Continuous Update Project
Grant Program
Grant application package
AICR Research team
AICR Research Conference
Cancer Research Update
Research Impact
AICR Progress
How our research is used
Research We Fund
Latest projects
Meet the Grantees
Marilyn Gentry Fellowship
Search by scientist/topic
Meetings Calendar
How You Can Help
Ways to Give
Become a monthly donor
Give at work
Donate your vehicle
Give while you shop
Match your gift
Partnership Opportunities
Honor/Memorial/Tribute
Give a gift in memory
Give a gift in honor
Create a tribute
Estate Planners Corner
Planned Giving Options
Get Involved
Join Team AICR
Ask the special events coordinator
Shred Cancer
Cancer Survivors
AICR’s iTHRIVE Plan
Getting Ready for Treatment
Questions about your diagnosis
Questions to ask your doctor
Finding support
During Treatment
Exercising during treatment
Dealing with treatment side effects
Foods to try during treatment
Staying Healthy After Treatment
Preventing recurrence, secondary cancers
Dealing with weight gain or loss
Healthy or Harmful
Soy
Flaxseed
Alkaline diets
Supplements
Asparagus Claims
Vegetarian and vegan
Sugar and other topics in the news
Resources for You
Take our 12 week healthy weight challenge
Cooking for health
Read the latest research
CancerResource - a handbook
Recharge: Monthly Newsletter
A Dietitian’s Cancer Story
About Us
Who We Are
History
Mission
Leadership
Global Network
What We Do
Research
Impact
Education
Resources For
Press
Health professionals
Researchers
Parents/families
Contact Us
Financial Information
Content Usage
Processed Meats Increase Colorectal Cancer Risk, New Report
Eating hot dogs, bacon and other processed meats daily increases the risk of colorectal cancer, with the more you eat the greater the risk, finds a new report by AICR and the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF). The report, an analysis of the global research, adds to the evidence that diet and lifestlye play an important role in protecting against colorectal cancer.
Diet, Nutrition, Physical Activity and Colorectal Cancer also found that eating whole grains daily, such as brown rice or whole-wheat bread, reduces risk of this cancer. This is the first time AICR/WCRF research links whole grains independently to lower cancer risk.
There was strong evidence that physical activity protects against colon cancer.
"Colorectal cancer is one of the most common cancers, yet this report demonstrates there is a lot people can do to dramatically lower their risk,” said Edward L. Giovannucci, MD, ScD, lead author of the report and professor of nutrition and epidemiology at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health. “The findings from this comprehensive report are robust and clear: Diet and lifestyle have a major role in colorectal cancer."
The new report evaluated the scientific research worldwide on how diet, weight and physical activity affect colorectal cancer risk. The report analyzed 99 studies, including data on 29 million people, of whom over a quarter of a million were diagnosed with colorectal cancer.
"The findings from this comprehensive report are robust and clear: Diet and lifestyle have a major role in colorectal cancer."
Hot dogs, Alcohol and Red Meat
For processed meat, every 50 grams consumed daily -- about one hot dog -- linked to a 16 percent increased risk of this cancer.
Other factors found to increase colorectal cancer risk include:
Being overweight or obese. Previous reports from AICR and WCRF have found that excess body fat also increases risk for ovarian, post-menopausal breast, esophageal, colorectal, gallbladder, liver, endometrial, kidney, stomach cardia, pancreatic, and advanced prostate cancers.
Consuming two or more daily alcoholic drinks (30 grams of alcohol), such as wine or beer
There was also strong evidence that eating high amounts of red meat regularly (above 18 oz cooked, weekly) increases risk. Red meat includes beef and pork.
Lowering Risk with Fiber, Activity and Grains
The report concluded that eating approximately three servings (90 grams) of whole grains daily reduces the risk of colorectal cancer by 17 percent. It adds to previous evidence showing that foods containing fiber decreases the risk of this cancer.
For physical activity, people who are more physically active have a lower risk of colon cancer compared to those who do very little physical activity. Here, the decreased risk was apparent for colon and not rectal cancer.
In the US, colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer among both men and women, with an estimated 371 cases diagnosed each day. AICR estimates that 47 percent of US colorectal cancer cases could be prevented each year through healthy lifestyle changes.
Preventing Colorectal Cancers
AICR estimates that 47 percent of US colorectal cancers could be prevented if all adults were to get to a healthy weight and follow other healthy lifestyle habits.
Other established lifestyle links to colorectal cancer include inflammatory bowel disease and smoking. Screening is also an important part of colorectal cancer prevention.
Notes Giovannucci: “Many of the ways to help prevent colorectal cancer are important for overall health. Factors such as maintaining a lean body weight, proper exercise, limiting red and processed meat and eating more whole grains and fiber would lower risk substantially. Moreover, limiting alcohol to at most two drinks per day and avoidance or cessation of smoking also lower risk.”
Fish, Fruits and Vegetables, Emerging Evidence
The report found other links between diet and colorectal cancer that were visible but not as clear. There was limited evidence that risk increases with low intake of both non-starchy vegetables and fruit. A higher risk was observed for intakes of less than 100 grams per day (about a cup) of each.
Emerging evidence also showed links to lowering risk of colorectal cancer with fish and foods containing vitamin C. Oranges, strawberries and spinach are all foods high in vitamin C.
The research continues to emerge for these factors, but it all points to the power of a plant-based diet, says Alice Bender, MS, RDN, AICR Director of Nutrition Programs. “Replacing some of your refined grains with whole grains and eating mostly plant foods, such as fruits, vegetables and beans, will give you a diet packed with cancer-protective compounds and help you manage your weight, which is so important to lower risk.”
"When it comes to cancer there are no guarantees, but it’s clear now there are choices you can make and steps you can take to lower your risk of colorectal and other cancers,” said Bender.
Sources:
AICR and World Cancer Research Fund. Diet, Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Colorectal Cancer. September, 2017.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What are the Risk Factors for Colorctal Cancer?
National Cancer Institute. Cancer Stat Facts: Colon and Rectum Cancer.
Sign up now to receive the latest on the diet-cancer link.
Spam Control Text: Please leave this field empty
Cancer Research Update (CRU)
Health-e-Recipes
eNews
More From This Issue
Related Content
Make an Impact
Your gift provides resources for cancer patients and survivors and helps fund cancer research.
Give Now »
Published on September 20, 2017
About AICR
We fund cutting-edge research and give people practical tools and information to help them prevent — and survive — cancer.
More About AICR »
Contact
American Institute for Cancer Research
1560 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1000, Arlington, VA 22209
P: (800) 843-8114
Fax: (202) 328-7226 | Email: aicrweb@aicr.org
Sign Up For Email
Get the latest research, strategies and news on cancer prevention and survivorship.
SIGN UP
Donate Now
Privacy Policy
Do Not Call Policy
Terms of Service
© American Institute for Cancer Research
The American Institute for Cancer Research is a nonprofit charity designated as tax-exempt under Section 501(c)3 by the Internal Revenue Service.
Donations are tax-deductible to the full extent of the law. EIN 52-1238026.
nonprofit software