Salt Lamps & Inhalers: Help With Air Pollution, Mood, Allergies, Asthma & More – Self-help Health
Skip to content
Self-help Health
Tips, Tools & Information for a Healthier YOU!
Menu
Home
About
Resources
Salt Lamps & Inhalers: Help With Air Pollution, Mood, Allergies, Asthma & More
July 13, 2014 July 1, 2015
If you are not familiar with the health benefits and uses for salt lamps, you’re missing out on an easy, soothing way to enhance your environment, your mood, and your overall health. And salt air inhalers are an all-natural way to relieve asthma, allergies and respiratory issues….
Salt Lamps & Inhalers:
Many of the things that are now a part of our daily lives are generators of positive ions and this is one instance when positive is bad, at least when it comes to impact on our health. Computers, microwaves, cell phones, wi-fi, TVs, motors, power lines, fluorescent lights and more all fill our environment with magnetic energies that can put stresses on our physical bodies.
The physiological effects of positive ions/magnetic fields include:
Produce acid, oxygen deficiency, free radicals, and toxic end products of metabolism
Speed up infections and increase pain and inflammation
Possibly exacerbate existing symptoms
Evoke catabolic hormone production
Positive magnetic fields have been associated with cancer, depression, chromosomal abnormalities, inflammation and learning difficulties. That’s why it’s important to be sure we surround ourselves with things known to generate negative ions and that’s why salt lamps are such a good investments. They make wonderful accent pieces for your living environment, but what’s more important is that they are natural producers of negative ions. That means they improve air quality and help clean it of dust, pollen, dander, cigarette smoke, and other allergens.
The lamp’s healthy ions also off-set the harmful radiation produced by computer monitors, TVs, and electrical devices, so no home or office should be without one. The bio-energetic vibrations emitted by the lamp are similar to what you experience being by the ocean, and have an uplifting effect on the general well-being of anyone in the vicinity. Negative magnetic fields are a positive thing as far as the body is concerned and help normalize the body’s pH, resolve cellular edema, clear metabolically produced toxins from the body, and eliminate free radicals.
Salt Lamps neutralize artificial electro-magnetic wavelengths produced by harmful electronic devices surrounding us that cause nervousness, insomnia and lack of concentration. They amplify the natural frequency of 8 to10 cycles per second in the human brain, which is the normal resonance synchronized with the resonant frequency of the planet’s electro-magnetic field (7.83 Hz or cycle per second) and stabilize alpha wave rhythms in our brain. –5D Alternative News
The lamps are a perfect answer for providing Feng Shui cures for buildings that have “stuck” energy (chi) and provide a natural ambiance that enhances any environment. When the small bulb (or votive candle in the salt candle holders) inside the lamp is on, the warmth and natural beauty of the glow creates a wonderful accent for any room, and can function as a mood-setter or soothing night light when the rest of the house is dark. A salt lamp makes a perfect house-warming gift, or unique present for all your health-minded friends and family. Everyone is attracted to their inviting glow and feels naturally uplifted and happier in their presence.
Salt lamps come in a variety of sizes, so you don’t necessarily have to spend an arm and a leg to own one; usually just an arm will suffice (just kidding!). And now that people are more aware of the health benefits they bring, they are available through a number of companies. The Aloha Bay and Himalayan Salt Shop lamps are made from salt crystal rocks formed by nature over a hundred million years ago and are mined over 500 yards underground in the foothills of the Himalayas, where pollution is non-existent. When mining the salt crystals, explosives are strictly prohibited to preserve the structures of the crystals, and the lamps are carefully crafted by hand to retain the unique and natural shape of the rock. The result is a rare crystal, with beautiful colors ranging from off-white to apricot and warm pink.
A Himalayan crystal salt lamp is a natural ionizer. This means that it provides the positive “good vibes” you experience when near a waterfall or the beach, where negative ions are naturally generated by these forces of Nature. It can also be used as a medium to alleviate several ailments and disorders, including preventing allergy symptoms from surfacing and helping quell other illnesses such as Attention Deficit Disorder. A Himalayan salt lamp also has a healing effect on the skin and even the mind, encouraging concentration and focus.
A Himalayan Salt Lamp is made from a chunk of salt crystal rock that was taken from the salt mines found in underground caves in the foothills of the Himalayan Mountains. The Himalayan salt lamp makes use of the minerals that have been preserved for millions of years, releasing their special properties through the introduction of heat from an electric bulb or from the flame of a candle. These special properties emitted from the Salt Lamp are responsible for promoting the health and wellness of individuals via ionization of the air and the eradication of pollution. The special properties of the Himalayan Salt Lamp consist of negatively charged ions that act on the contaminants in the air by neutralizing them and weighing them down so they can no longer circulate. When this occurs, individuals can breathe more easily and many ailments and allergies that frequently afflict them start to disappear.
A Himalayan salt lamp comes in different shapes, sizes, and weights. Many prefer the natural shape lamps as they lend to the nature and the environment while encouraging good health. Others like to complement the aesthetics of their décor and choose the shaped varieties. The lamp can be made into a pyramid shaped Himalayan salt lamp, a globe shaped Himalayan salt lamp, a bowl shaped Himalayan salt lamp that contains small salt chunks within, or even a cross shaped Himalayan salt lamp. — Himalayan Salt Shop
The following is an excerpt from Clemence Lefevre’s book Himalayan Salt Crystal Lamps:
Imagine that you have in your possession a geological treasure that dates back millions of years – before mankind appeared – and holds the earth’s secrets inside. Imagine that this jewel, which also holds the memory of the sea, is a tool for vitality an spiritual growth. This dream can now be reality thanks to crystal salt lamps, unique in their origin, age, and surprising powers of harmonization and revitalization.
Rock salt is found in deep deposits in many regions of the world, including France, Poland, and Persia to name just a few. If forms crystals when it is pressurized deep inside the earth. The Himalayan mountains are home to particularly old and lovely varieties of salt crystal, which are becoming increasingly popular around the world for use as table salt and bath salts, in addition to the much loved crystal salt lamps.
These blocks of rock salt crystal from deep in the Himalayan mountains have absorbed mineral elements that enrich them and give them their delicate tones. Unlike regular rock salt, which is extracted from industrial quarries that can reach over half a mile deep, Himalayan salt crystal is extracted by traditional methods that have been used for thousands of years.
For more on Himalayan salt lamps visit the Information Center at himalayansaltshop.com
But lamps and candles aren’t the only way to experience the benefits of Himalayan salt. Using a salt air inhaler provides relief from:
Breathing Difficulties
Allergies
Asthma
Sinus Conditions
Sore Throat
The benefits of salt as a natural cleanser have been known for millennia and I have written several blog posts about this wonderful health aid. The benefits of salt air inhalation, also known as speleotherapy or halotherapy, were first documented over 200 years ago in Europe when it was realized that salt miners were relatively free of respiratory ailments. Since then, many people have been flocking to salt mines around the world to help rid themselves of respiratory ailments of all kinds, including asthma, congestion, hay fever, and allergies. Salt is known for its anti-microbial, anti-bacterial, and anti-fungal properties. Here in the United States, such treatment is only now starting to become more widely known and appreciated with the introduction of “salt rooms” in spas and other wellness businesses. But that is changing; even Dr. Oz has recommended using salt inhalers on his program.
You can now benefit from this all-natural salt air therapy at home with a Himalayan salt inhaler, such as the high quality ceramic one made by The Himalayan Salt Shop. For optimal results, it’s recommended that the inhaler be used for 15 minutes a day – this can be broken down in intervals during the day. It is also recommended that the salt be changed every 90 days with refills that are available on-line. Try this simple, yet amazing natural device and see how it can benefit you.
Here’s what one happy customer of the Himalayan Salt Shop had to say about the lamps and inhaler:
I am a return customer. We found your site on the internet. We received a salt lamp as a gift and fell in love with it and purchased 3 more. After seeing the salt inhaler on your site, I bought it and I love it!! In the past year I have tried all forms of treatment for clearing my respiratory system. I actually saw results after the second day!! I use it every day for 20 minutes. I love all your products that we have purchased. I still need to buy some more lamps so every room in my house will have salt lamps in them. — Marianne B.
Be sure to check out their package deals where you can really save, e. g. get two 4 to 5 lb. lamps and two candle holders for only $39.99.
Related Self-help Health posts:
https://selfhelphealth.wordpress.com/2013/05/29/himalayan-crystal-salt-its-whats-shakin/
https://selfhelphealth.wordpress.com/2013/06/04/crystal-salt-part-ii/
https://selfhelphealth.wordpress.com/2013/11/18/salt-water-flush-cleansing-the-intestines-colon/
https://selfhelphealth.wordpress.com/2014/03/29/neti-your-nose-for-sinus-health-allergy-relief/
Salud!
p.s. Be sure to subscribe to Self-help Health so you don’t miss any future posts. Also check out my new website Evolution Made Easier and blog of the same name for more helpful information, tips, tools and resources.
Disclaimer: Please note that any information here is provided as a guideline only, and is not meant to substitute for the advice of your physician, nutritionist, trained healthcare practitioner, and/or inner guidance system. Always consult a professional before undertaking any change to your normal health routine.
Advertisements
Rate this:
Share this:
Facebook
Email
Twitter
Print
Pocket
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Skype
Pinterest
Reddit
Telegram
WhatsApp
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Posted in: alternative health, conscious living, detoxification & cleansing, natural health remedies | Tagged: all-natural health remedies, allergy relief, health & wellness, Himalayan crystal salt
Post navigation
Free Event On Nutrition, Weight, Body Image and MORE!
A Strawberry, Peanut Butter and Tuna Sandwich?!
11 thoughts on “Salt Lamps & Inhalers: Help With Air Pollution, Mood, Allergies, Asthma & More”
Pinky says:
March 11, 2019 at 6:37 pm
Reply
I already heard about these salt lamps
LikeLike
zirah1 says:
March 11, 2019 at 7:41 pm
Reply
Good for you. 🙂
LikeLike
himalayasaltlamp says:
April 14, 2018 at 6:45 am
Reply
I’m glad that I came across your article about benefits of salt lamps. I have these amazing lamps in my home and office. Though at first I bought these lamps just for decoration purpose. But then I heard that they have other benefits as well. These lamps actually clean the air and make it fresh. These lamps have positive impact on my mood. I just love these lamps. I cannot imagine my home without these lamps. You can visit the given website to know more about different types of salt lamps.
LikeLike
zirah1 says:
April 14, 2018 at 2:08 pm
Reply
Thanks for the input. 🙂
LikeLike
Betty Potter says:
March 16, 2018 at 9:59 am
Reply
It’so well written article. Thanks for sharing. I’m also experiencing its benefits. I’m using Himalayan salt lamps from saltean. You are absolutely right. They are not only used for decorative purpose, but also acts as air purifier.
LikeLike
Kathleen mark says:
February 16, 2018 at 5:14 am
Reply
Thanks for sharing such an informative article. I also have Himalayan salt lamps in my house. These lamps are just more than awesome. They are not only beautiful but also have health and healing benefits for human mind and body as you have mentioned above. They eliminate all the dust particles and smoke from the air and make it pure and fresh. They help me in relieving stress and depression and improve the sleep cycle. I bought my lamps from ittefaqco at a very reasonable price and they are of great quality.
LikeLike
Joseph Boyd says:
January 25, 2017 at 5:25 am
Reply
My little girl, now at 26 years old, has endured with asthma issues the majority of her grown-up life. I am very happy to see this beautiful post, thank you for giving every one of us this data and this breathtaking open door!
LikeLike
zirah1 says:
January 25, 2017 at 4:58 pm
Reply
Thanks for your comment. Fortunately there are other all-natural ways of helping w/ asthma, too.
p.s. I removed the link from your comment because I wanted to be sure it wasn’t made just for marketing purposes. Hope you understand.
LikeLike
Pingback: More Healthy Gift Ideas, A Gift For You, and Sore Throat “Tea” | Self-help Health
Pingback: TIPS, TIPS AND MORE TIPS | Self-help Health
Pingback: Dealing With Sinus Congestion Naturally, Plus A Free Love Your Body MP3 | Self-help Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search for:
Recent blog posts
Easy Brain Exercises + The Energy Medicine Summit + Energy Bites
Free Dental, Eye, Energy Series + Collagen Recipes + EWG 2019 Buyer’s Guide List
Free Introductory Herbal Course!
Great Acupressure Resource For Colds, Flu, Sore Throat And MORE!
Two Minute Breath Exercise To Relax & Alleviate Pain + 21-Day Yoga Challenge
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013
alternative health Alzheimer's & dementia arthritis treatment coconut oil conscious living detoxification & cleansing eliminating parasites emotional health exercise & fitness eye health free health tools healthy eating healthy recipes Mother Nature natural cancer treatments natural health remedies natural stress relief self-help health self-love Sound Healing technology weight loss yoga
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 466 other followers
Follow
Blogroll
Discuss
Recommended Links
Evolution Made Easier blog
Evolution Made Easier website
Advertisements
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: