He Cured His Stage 4 Prostate Cancer And Decides To Share His Story – Health and Beauty
Health and Beauty
Health and Beauty
Menu
Home
HEALTH
ALTERNATIVE HEALING
HOME REMEDIES
HEALTHY FOOD
RECIPES
DIET & WEIGHT LOSS
BEAUTY
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
PRIVACY POLICY
He Cured His Stage 4 Prostate Cancer And Decides To Share His Story
11th October 2017
ALTERNATIVE HEALING, HEALTH, HOME REMEDIES
0 Comments
Despite the warnings of his doctors that he has few more months to live, this man cured his cancer in only a few weeks!
This is a story of a brave man, Vernon Johnson, who succeeded to cure himself using only alternative medicine methods and now enjoys his life. He was diagnosed with prostate cancer in the 4th stage in 2008, and his cancer has metastasized into the bone marrow.
According to him, people all over the world “fall like flies“ as a result of cancer, and one of the causes is the rise of toxins in our environment, in the air and water. Stress is another significant impact which contributes to the increased number of cases of cancer nowadays.
As soon as Vernon got his diagnosis, his son tried to persuade him to try a method which involves a rise of the pH levels in the body, in order to alkalize it, as cancer cannot survive in such environment.
A friend recommended the use of cesium chloride, as an effective way to increase the pH values and efficiently alkalize the body. He ordered it, but it got stuck in the mail, and he never got the package.
Therefore, he started investigating other ways to raise his pH levels and found that the combination of maple syrup and baking soda provides the same effects.
And maple syrup acts like a Trojan horse that allows the baking soda to penetrate cancer cells and shock them with a sudden surge of alkalinity, oxygenate them and lead to their decomposition.
At this point, he was determined to fight the disease, before it manages to fight him.
As soon as he started with the treatment, he recorded it, and called it the last “dance with cancer”. He began consuming high alkaline foods, rich in vitamins and minerals, as well as supplements, and spent a lot of time outside, under the sun. Vernon also started practicing some breathing exercises, with the aim to help the increased oxygenation stimulated by the sudden increase in the pH levels.
He stated: “Sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) is the cheapest, safest and most effective remedy that might exist in the fight against cancer. You have nothing to lose, you can only gain.”
Additionally, the use of molasses enhanced the treatment, as it provided an improved mineral basis and nutritional support. On the other hand, conventional cancer therapies refrain from sugar, as it supports the development of cancer.
Vernon used this remedy for several weeks and then visited his doctor to do a medical examination. The tests showed that he was completely cured of the prostate and bone cancer, and he was entirely healthy!
Nowadays, he tells his story in order to help others who are in the same or similar situation.
In order to prepare this miraculous cancer cure, you should place 2 tablespoons of baking soda in a cup, add a teaspoon molasses or maple syrup, and pour some water. You can heat it in order to dissolve the baking soda quicker.
This remedy should be consumed several times a day.
(Visited 613 times, 3 visits today)
Written by Martin
Related Posts
Cure a Nagging Cough or Inflammation of the Lungs in 2 Days With This Super Healthy Recipe
This recipe helps in curing flu infections, cold and coughing and it also improves breathing.…
See How To Turn On Your Weight Loss Hormones In 6 Ways
Weight loss can seem like a confusing puzzle to solve, but with the help of…
18 Mind Blowing Uses For Aloe Vera
Aloe vera – we’ve all heard about this super health plant. It usually grows in…
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Facebook
Whats Popular Now
Popular Posts
Remove Bloated Belly Fast With This Incredible Belly Fat Burning Recipe
How To Remove Blackheads Instantly With This Easy Recipe
Random Posts
How To Recognize Negative People, 5 Signs Of Evil And Wicked Heart
What Causes Lung Cancer, You Won’t Believe It When You Read What This Is About
Cancer Was Cured By Dr. Raymond Rife In 1934 And Then He Was Killed
With This Mask You Will Forget About Botox, See How To Make It
Egyptians Called Aloe Vera The Plant Of Immortality, See Why
Popular Posts
Recent Posts
10 Morning Rituals To Supercharge Your Mind, Body And Metabolism In 5 Minutes
30th January 2018
Secret Recipe To Grow Your Hair And See Results In Just Two Day
30th January 2018
How To Drink Water To Lose Weight, You Will Be Surprised With The Result
30th January 2018
Remove The Wrinkles In Just Seven Days With These Homemade Cream That Is Going To Make You Younger
30th January 2018
What’s Your Horoscope For 2017, See It Here
30th January 2018
Health&Beauty