What Your Urine Says About Your Health: Color, Odor, and More | Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
Healthy Skin
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Everyday Health Urinary Conditions Urine
What Your Urine Says About You and Your Health
Its Color and Smell
Cloudy Urine
Blood in Urine
Burning or Painful Pee
Frequent Urination
Urine and Pregnancy
Protein in Urine
Ketones in Urine Test
Urinalysis
Marijuana in Urine
By Kathleen Smith, PhD, LPC
Medically Reviewed by Robert Jasmer, MD
Last Updated: 10/8/2018
Your urine can tell you a lot about your health and your habits. Urine is produced when blood passes through the kidneys, which filter out excess waste and water. This waste travels through tubes known as ureters and is stored in the bladder until you urinate.
Urine is roughly 95 percent water, and the rest is composed of thousands of compounds — both inorganic and organic — exiting the body.
Certain changes in your urine or urine habits, either during or after urination, may indicate that you have a medical condition. These signs often include:
Dark or discolored urine
Cloudy urine
Blood in urine
Frequency of urination
Pain during urination
The presence of abnormal amounts of certain chemicals, such as proteins, sugars, ketones, and others, can also help your healthcare provider diagnose and monitor various medical conditions.
Editor’s Picks on Conditions Related to Urine Changes
Frequent Urination and Other Main Symptoms of Type 2 Diabetes
Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) Symptoms and Diagnosis
What’s the Difference Between Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes?
6 Unusual Signs of Dehydration You Should Know About
What Do the Smell and Color of My Urine Tell Me?
Changes in the smell and color of your urine are typically harmless, but sometimes they can indicate a medical problem. Normal, healthy urine is usually mildly yellow with a slight odor. (1)
Urine can range in odor for various reasons:
Forty percent of people can smell a change in urine after they eat asparagus, sometimes called “asparagus pee.” (2)
Dehydration can produce an ammonialike odor. (3)
A urinary tract infection can produce sweet-smelling urine. (3)
Fruity-smelling urine can be a sign of type 2 diabetes. (4)
Foul-smelling urine can indicate a sexually transmitted infection. (4)
Urine can also vary in color for a variety of reasons: (5,6)
Clear urine is a sign of good hydration and potential overhydration.
Pale yellow urine is an indicator of good hydration.
Dark yellow urine is a sign to drink more fluids.
Amber-colored urine can indicate dehydration.
Orange urine can be caused by various foods or medications or be a sign of potential liver problems.
Pink or red urine can be caused by foods or medications or it can also be a sign of blood in the urine.
Blue or green urine can be caused by medications or food dyes, but it can be a sign of bacteria or the rare condition known as blue diaper syndrome, too.
Dark-brown urine can be a sign of liver or kidney problems.
White urine can occur when your body contains excess calcium or phosphate, or it may indicate a urinary tract infection.
You should always consult with your doctor if you notice a sudden change in the color or odor of your urine.
Learn More About What the Smell and Color of Your Urine Mean
What Causes Urine to Be Cloudy?
Cloudy urine can be an indication of a variety of medical conditions:
Dehydration Cloudy urine can indicate that you are not getting enough water and other fluids. (7)
Urinary Tract Infection Blood, pus, or excess white blood cells can cause cloudy or milky urine and can indicate that you have a urinary tract infection. (6)
Sexually Transmitted Infections STIs can produce an excess of white blood cells, which can cause cloudy urine. (8)
Kidney Stones High levels of minerals in urine can cause cloudiness and be a sign of kidney stones. (9)
Diabetes Cloudy urine can indicate that uncontrolled diabetes has damaged the kidneys. (10)
Prostate Issues An inflamed or infected prostate can lead to an increase in the amount of white blood cells or other discharge, which can cloud urine. (11)
Vaginitis A vaginal infection can increase the number of white blood cells released in urine and cause cloudiness. (12)
Learn More About Causes of Cloudy Urine
Editor’s Picks on Conditions Related to Cloudy Pee
Do You Have a Sexually Transmitted Infection? You’re Not the Only One
Kidney Stone Symptoms and When to Seek Treatment
Burning Pee and Other Vaginal Infection Symptoms
How to Prevent a Urinary Tract Infection (UTI)
Why Is There Blood in My Urine (Hematuria)?
Blood in urine, also known as hematuria, occurs when red blood cells leak from your urinary tract. Blood in urine can indicate that you have an undiagnosed or untreated medical condition.
Sometimes blood in urine is visible, appearing clotlike or turning the urine pink, red, or brown. Other times it can be viewed only with a microscope (called microscopic hematuria). (13)
Conditions that cause blood in urine can include: (14)
Bladder or kidney stones
Kidney disease or injury
Enlarged prostate
Urinary tract infections
Kidney or bladder cancer
If you notice or suspect blood in your urine, contact your healthcare provider as soon as possible. Your doctor will conduct a urinalysis and various other tests to determine the cause of the bleeding and any appropriate treatment.
Learn More About What Blood in Urine Can Mean
What Does Painful or Burning Urination Mean?
Painful or burning urination can often be the first sign of an undiagnosed medical condition. The most common cause of painful urination is a urinary tract infection, which occurs when bacteria infect the bladder, urethra, or kidneys. (15)
Additional causes of painful urination can include: (16)
Inflammation of the vagina
Inflammation of the urethra
Sexually transmitted infections such as gonorrhea or chlamydia
Prostate disease or prostate cancer
The most common cause of painful urination in children is irritation of the urethra from bubble bath, lotions, soaps, and other chemicals. (17)
If you experience painful or burning urination, your doctor will conduct a urinalysis and other medical tests to determine the cause of the discomfort. Behaviors such as drinking plenty of water, practicing safe sex, and avoiding chemicals that cause irritation can also prevent painful urination. (18)
Learn More About Burning and Painful Sensations When Peeing
What Are the Possible Reasons for Frequent Urination?
Frequent urination can be disruptive to sleep, work, hobbies, and your mood.
Frequent urination is not always a sign of a medical problem. As you age, the bladder loses some of its holding capacity and you may have to urinate more frequently. (19) Frequent urination is also common during the first and third trimesters of pregnancy.
Sometimes frequent urination is caused by increased fluid intake, especially drinking large amounts of caffeine or alcohol. Certain medications can also increase urine output, and diuretics — such as Lasix (furosemide), Demadex (torsemide), Microzide (hydrochlorothiazide), Dyazide (hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene), Thalitone (chlorthalidone), and Aldactone (spironolactone) — are a common culprit.
Diseases affecting the urinary tract, such as a urinary tract infection, can also cause frequent urination. Infection affects the bladder’s capacity to hold urine, and it can also affect the functioning of the urethra or kidneys. (20)
Poorly managed or uncontrolled type 1 or type 2 diabetes can also cause frequent urination, when increased blood sugar causes more fluid to escape the kidneys into the urine.
Prostate problems are the most common reasons that men over 50 struggle with frequent urination. (20)
If you suffer from frequent urination, your doctor may conduct a urinalysis and other tests to determine the cause. Antibiotics are used to treat urinary infections, and there are special prescription medications used to treat an overactive bladder. Your doctor may also recommend that you reduce fluid intake before you go to bed.
Learn More About What Causes Frequent Urination
Most Popular
11 Signs That You Might Have Prostate Problems
Caffeine 101: The Proven Health Benefits, and How Much Is Too Much
7 Unusual Signs and Symptoms of Type 2 Diabetes
10 Ways to Better Control Your Blood Sugar After Eating
How Does Your Urine Change When You’re Pregnant?
Urine changes throughout pregnancy, and monitoring your urine can help your doctor ensure both you and your baby are healthy.
A urine test can detect pregnancy around two weeks after conception by measuring increased levels of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). (21)
Urinating more frequently can also be an early sign of pregnancy and will occur throughout the first trimester. Frequent urination returns during the third trimester when the growing fetus and uterus put increased pressure on the bladder.
Pregnant women also need to drink more water, so dark and more-concentrated urine can be a sign of dehydration. Women may also notice blood in urine at the beginning of their pregnancy. This may not be a sign of any problem, but it’s important to contact your doctor if you notice any blood in your urine. (22)
Pregnant women are also at increased risk of developing urinary tract infections, which can cause smelly urine, cloudy urine, and blood in urine. UTIs carry increased risks to the mother and fetus during pregnancy, so it’s important to get the infection treated as soon as possible. (23)
A urinary infection can also be a sign of group B streptococcus (GBS), a bacterium that can spread to a baby during delivery and cause complications. Women are typically tested for GBS during their third trimester. (24)
Your doctor may conduct several urinalyses throughout pregnancy to test or monitor for conditions such as preeclampsia and gestational diabetes.
Learn More About How Your Urine Changes Throughout Pregnancy
Slideshow
9 Gestational Diabetes Dos and Don'ts
Gestational diabetes, which develops during pregnancy as a result of hormone changes, is relatively common. But it’s important to keep your blood sugar levels under control to protect both yourself and the fetus. Here’s how.
Proteinuria: What Does Protein in the Urine Mean and How Is It Tested?
Proteins serve many functions in the body, but when proteins escape into urine, it can be a sign of potential kidney problems.
It’s normal to have a small amount of protein in your urine, and temporarily higher levels can be caused by exercise, dehydration, stress, fever, or cold temperatures. (25)
More on Hypertension (High Blood Pressure)
Top Symptoms of Hypertension, the Silent Killer
If high levels of protein are detected multiple times, you may have kidney disease. People with diabetes and hypertension have a higher risk of developing kidney disease, so their urine may be analyzed regularly via urinalysis.
Protein in urine can also be a sign of preeclampsia in pregnant women.
If kidney disease is caused by hypertension or diabetes, treatment will involve getting these medical conditions controlled and monitored. Treatment may also include lifestyle changes and prescription medication, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). (26)
Learn More About Proteinuria
Ketones in Urine: When and Why to Test for Ketones in Urine
Ketones are chemicals that are produced when the body begins to burn fat instead of sugar. Ketones in urine are often a sign of poorly managed or uncontrolled diabetes, when there is insufficient insulin to carry sugar from blood to the cells that need it. (27)
Common symptoms that accompany high levels of ketones in urine include: (28)
High blood sugar
Nausea or vomiting
Fatigue
Abdominal pain
Fruity-smelling breath
Flushed skin
You can test for ketones in urine at home or at your doctor’s office via a dipstick test. People with diabetes are advised to test for ketones more frequently when their blood glucose level is high, or when they are sick with a cold or flu. If diabetes is left uncontrolled, people can develop diabetic ketoacidosis, which can lead to coma and even death.
High levels of ketones in urine can also be a sign of alcohol abuse, an eating disorder, chronic vomiting or diarrhea, or other medical conditions. (29)
Treatment for ketones in urine typically involves treating the underlying issue.
Learn More About Testing for Ketones in Urine
Leukocytes in Urine
Leukocytes are another name for white blood cells, which play an important role in fighting off infection in the body.
A small number of leukocytes in urine is considered normal, as old white blood cells will pass through the body. But if a high number of leukocytes are present in the urine, it can be a sign of potential damage to the kidneys, bladder, ureters, or urethra.
Causes of high levels of leukocytes can include: (30)
Urinary tract infection
Waiting too long to urinate
Blockage of urinary tract
Prostate issues
Sexually transmitted infections
Vaginitis
Leukocytes are typically measured during a urinalysis. Treatment for leukocytes in urine involves addressing whatever underlying medical condition is causing the higher levels.
Nitrites in Urine
Nitrates are inorganic compounds that normally pass through urine as waste. When nitrates become infected with bacteria, they become nitrites, which can be a sign of a urinary tract infection.
Additional signs of a urinary tract infection can include frequent or painful urination, dark or cloudy urine, foul-smelling urine, fatigue, and fever. (31)
Levels of nitrites in urine are measured in a typical urinalysis test.
What Is a Urinalysis and How Is It Done?
A urinalysis is a frequently used medical test that measures the presence of various substances in urine to detect medical problems and assess overall health.
Urinalyses can be done before or prior to admission to the hospital or if there are changes in urine color, odor, or volume. They’re also frequently used for people with urinary tract infections, diabetes, kidney and liver problems, and for women during pregnancy. (32)
A urinalysis involves collecting a clean urine sample via a specimen cup. The sample is then analyzed visually, with a dipstick test, and with a microscope.
During the visual exam, the color and clearness of the urine are examined.
During the dipstick exam, the levels of acidity, urine concentration, nitrites, proteins, ketones, and glucose are usually measured. (33)
In a microscopic examination, technicians look for white and red blood cells, bacteria, skin cells, crystals, and other substances that can help diagnose medical conditions. (34)
Learn More About a Urinalysis and What Test Results Mean
How Long Do Marijuana, Alcohol, and Other Substances Stay in Urine?
Urine drug testing is often performed to test the presence of illegal, mind-altering, or performance-enhancing substances in the urine of employees, athletes, or people on probation or parole. How long a substance can be detected in your urine can depend on a number of factors:
The composition of the drug
How frequently you use it
How much you use/ingest
Age of user
Health condition of user
Quality of urine drug test
A typical urine drug test can detect alcohol roughly 12 to 36 hours in urine after it is consumed, and more advanced urine tests can detect alcohol as long as three days after your last drink. (35)
More on Marijuana
Where Is Marijuana Legal in the United States?
Everything You Need to Know About Medical Marijuana and Cannabidiol (CBD)
How long marijuana stays in your urine will depend upon your use habits. Most drug tests measure the presence of tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the active ingredient in marijuana. If you use infrequently, a urine drug test can detect THC as long as 10 days after use. Weed can stay in your system for two to four weeks if you use frequently and as long as a month if you use very frequently. (36)
People sometimes use synthetic urine to try to pass a urine drug test. This can carry significant consequences, as many states have made it illegal to sell or use synthetic urine to cheat on a drug test. (37)
Urine Therapy: Is Drinking Your Own Pee Good for You?
Urine therapy, or urotherapy, is a type of alternative medicine in which people use or ingest their own urine for medicinal purposes. But there is no scientific evidence that urine therapy provides medicinal value. (38)
When you drink urine, you ingest all the waste that your kidneys have filtered out of your body. Therefore, drinking urine can make your urine more concentrated with waste, causing dehydration and kidney damage. So drinking your urine is generally not recommended as a survival technique.
What Is Maple Syrup Urine Disease?
Maple syrup urine disease is a rare genetic disorder in which an infant’s body cannot properly process amino acids found in proteins. This causes urine to have a sweet-smelling odor, much like maple syrup. It affects roughly 1 in 185,000 infants. (39)
The more serious form of the disease can be detected in newborns, and other times the onset of symptoms is delayed until late infancy or childhood.
Additional symptoms of maple syrup urine disease can include: (40)
Trouble feeding
Lethargy
Seizures
Vomiting
If untreated, the condition can lead to neurological damage, coma, and even death. Treatment typically involves a diet low in certain amino acids, and sometimes requires dialysis. If your family has a history of maple syrup urine disease, talk to your doctor about genetic counseling.
Sign up for our Healthy Living Newsletter!
Thanks for signing up for our newsletter! You should see it in your inbox very soon.
Oops! Please enter a valid email address
Subscribe
We respect your privacy.
Resources We
Cleveland Clinic American Diabetes Association American Kidney Fund
Editorial Sources and Fact-Checking
LaFee S. 10 Colors That Suggest Urine Trouble. UC San Diego Health. April 21, 2014.
Markt S, Nuttall E, Turman C, et al. Sniffing Out Significant “Pee Values”: Genome Wide Association Study of Asparagus Anosmia. BMJ. December 2016.
Urine Odor. Mayo Clinic. January 11, 2018.
Urine Odor. MedlinePlus. August 31, 2018.
What the Color of Your Urine Says About You. Cleveland Clinic. October 31, 2013.
Urine — Abnormal Color. MedlinePlus. August 31, 2018.
Dehydration. Mayo Clinic. February 15, 2018.
What Are the Symptoms of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) or Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs)? National Institutes of Health. January 31, 2017.
Kidney Stones. MedlinePlus. July 30, 2018.
Diabetes Symptoms. American Diabetes Association. August 29, 2018.
Prostate Problems. National Institute on Aging. July 1, 2016.
Vaginitis. Mayo Clinic. October 25, 2016.
Blood in Urine. American Kidney Fund.
Blood in Urine (Hematuria). Mayo Clinic. August 17, 2017.
Michels T, Sands J. Dysuria: Evaluation and Differential Diagnosis in Adults. American Family Physician. November 1, 2015.
Urination — Painful. MedlinePlus. August 31, 2018.
Dysuria, Infection vs. Chemical (Child). Fairview Health Services.
Dysuria (Painful Urination). Cleveland Clinic. October 27, 2016.
Nocturia or Frequent Urination at Night. National Sleep Foundation.
Urination, Excessive or Frequent. Merck Manual. September 2017.
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (HCG): The Pregnancy Hormone. American Pregnancy Association. August 22, 2017.
Bleeding During Pregnancy. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. July 2016.
Urinary Tract Infections. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. May 2015.
Group B Strep Disease. Mayo Clinic. January 10, 2018.
Protein in Urine. Mayo Clinic. January 11, 2018.
Protein in Urine. American Kidney Fund.
Ketones in Urine. MedlinePlus. September 22, 2017.
Checking for Ketones. American Diabetes Association. December 6, 2013.
Ketones — Urine. University of California San Francisco Medical Center. November 19, 2015.
Simerville JA, Maxted WC, and Pahira JJ. Urinalysis: A Comprehensive Review. American Family Physician. March 15, 2005.
Nitrites in Urine. MedlinePlus. September 22, 2017.
Urinalysis. Cleveland Clinic. July 13, 2018.
What Is a Urinalysis? National Kidney Foundation. August 8, 2016.
Urinalysis. Mayo Clinic. December 28, 2017.
Cederbaum A. Alcohol Metabolism. Clinics in Liver Disease. November 2012.
Cannabinoid Screen and Confirmation. University of Rochester Medical Center.
Zezima K. States Move to Ban Fake Urine, a New Challenge for Drug Testing Amid an Abuse Epidemic. The Washington Post. April 7, 2018.
Urotherapy. American Cancer Society. November 1, 2008.
Maple Syrup Urine Disease. Genetics Home Reference. July 2017.
Maple Syrup Urine Disease. MedlinePlus. October 1, 2018.
See More
The Latest in Urine
Urine
Proteinuria: What Does Protein in the Urine Mean and How Is It Tested?
Urine
Ketones in Urine: When and Why to Test for Them and What They Mean
In people with diabetes, high levels of ketones in the urine can indicate a serious complication called diabetic ketoacidosis. But excess ketones can ...
Urine
How Does Your Urine Change When You’re Pregnant?
Changes in urine can be both an indicator of pregnancy and a sign of problems during pregnancy. Learn what different changes might mean for your healt...
Urine
What Are the Different Reasons for Frequent Urination?
Urine
Top Causes of Cloudy Urine, From Health Concerns to Your Diet
Urine
What Does Burning or Painful Urination (Dysuria) Mean?
Urine
What Is a Urinalysis and How Is the Test Done?
A urine sample can reveal a lot about why you’re experiencing certain symptoms and whether a symptom may indicate a current or future medical conditio...
Urine
Why Is There Blood in My Urine (Hematuria)?
Urine
Straining to Urinate?
I have to push, or strain, in order to urinate. There is no pain, no burning, and no smell to my urine - however, if I don't push when attempting to u...
Error
Please try again later.
Save
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.