Smartphones Cause Cancer – Phantom Vibration Syndrome
Phantom Vibration Syndrome
Signs, symptoms & treatment of phantom vibration syndrome
Home
Symptoms & Signs
Causes & Triggers
Treatments & Cures
EMF Dangers
PVS Shop
Home
Symptoms & Signs
Causes & Triggers
Treatments & Cures
EMF Dangers
PVS Shop
Smartphones Cause Cancer
Home / Smartphones Cause Cancer
By admin July 4, 2018 PVS StoreProducts, Store
Insten Dual Mic/Audio Stereo Jack Splitter 2 Plug Male to 3.5mm Female Smartphone Headset to PC Adapter, 8 Inch
$3.99
1 new from $3.99
Product Info & Price
Amazon.com
as of February 5, 2019 10:36 pm
Features
Use the same headset for both PC computer and phone with this adapter.
Length: 8 inches/ 20 cm. Nickel plated. 518.
Connector A: Dual 3.5mm Male. Connector B: 3.5mm Female.
With this adapter you no longer need 2 separate headsets for PC and phone.
Airthings Wave Smart Radon Detector with free app, battery operated, no lab fees, easy to use
$196.99
7 new from $189.00
3 used from $ 153.64
Free shipping
Product Info & Price
Amazon.com
as of February 5, 2019 10:36 pm
Features
Radon is the leading cause of Lung cancer among non smokers and is found in every home
Radon gas fluctuates daily and needs constant monitoring to minimize the health effects
AirThings wave provides detailed information about radon, temperature and humidity on your smartphone or tablet
Use the free app or wave in front of the detector for Color coded notifications. Battery life - Estimated battery life: 1.5 years of monitoring
Receive notifications for air quality, data updates and low battery power
Do Cell Phones Really Cause Cancer?
Some people think that the radiation from phones and other electronic devices can give you cancer. Is there any truth to this, or is it just a huge misconception?
Do Cell Phones Cause Cancer?
Remember the last time you used your phone and it left a nice warm spot on your face? - Is that causing cancer? Michael Aranda tells you all about the radiation ...
Do Cellphones Cause Cancer?: Understanding Cell Phone ...
Article Summary. We love our smartphones, but it turns out there are dangers associated with using cell phones. Thousands of studies link cell phone radiation to a long list of serious illnesses – including cancer.
Does Cell-Phone Radiation Cause Cancer? - Consumer Reports
Does cell-phone radiation cause cancer, or doesn't it? Consumer Reports experts review the research and offer commonsense steps you can take to protect yourself.
Cell Phones May Cause Cancer, Says the WHO. What to Do?
Cell phone radiation might cause cancer, according to the World Health Organization, which until Tuesday has said that there were no known health risks associated with cell phone use. The WHO's International Agency for Research on Cancer has now tied mobile phone radiation to an increased risk for ...
Blue light from smartphones may increase risk of cancer
The blue light which comes from smartphones, tablets and street lights (stock image) may help to cause cancer. People exposed to high levels of blue light at night have double the risk of prostate cancer.
Cell Phone Ionizing Radiation
Cell Phones Give Off Radiation
PVS Shop
About This Website
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Developed by Think Up Themes Ltd. Powered by Wordpress.