Tips For Lowering Cholesterol | Your HCG Diet Health Tips
Chat with us, powered by LiveChat
Chat With Us | Toll Free: 800-697-4208
0Shopping Cart
What is HCG
HCG Diet FAQ
HCG Diet – What To Expect
HCG Diet Plan
HCG Injections vs. HCG Drops
HCG Diet Foods
HCG Diet Recipes
HCG Diet Reviews
HCG Diet Before & After Pictures
HCG Diet Blog
Contact Us
Customer Service
Wholesale HCG
Your HCG Social Media
Purchase HCG
Menu
HCG Diet Blog
You are here: Home / HCG Diet Blog / HCG Diet Information / Tips on Lowering Cholesterol
Tips on Lowering Cholesterol
HCG Diet Information
Tips on Lowering Cholesterol
Dangers of Having High Cholesterol
Have you had your cholesterol checked lately? Many people who start the HCG Diet have suffered from high cholesterol due to being overweight. To know exactly where you stand, it may be a good idea to have this checked by your physician. Why is high cholesterol something to worry about? When you have high cholesterol, it will reduce the blood flow through your arteries. Reducing blood flow can cause chest pain, heart attack, and stroke. By taking the few simple steps listed below, it can help lower your cholesterol, lowering your chances for these 3 complications. If your cholesterol is high, here are a few tips on getting it back into a healthy range naturally. It is always best to consult your physician before adding in any supplements or starting a new exercise and diet program.
How to Lower High Cholesterol
For starters to lower your cholesterol, get moving! Even a little exercise will help raise your HDL (good) cholesterol. Exercising 3-5 times per week for up to an hour each time helps get your blood flowing and helps raise your HDL. While exercising will help you lower your cholesterol, so will losing weight. By adjusting your workout routine to help drop those extra pounds, you’ll be doing 2 things to help get your cholesterol within a healthy range. To help with your cholesterol levels long term, take a look at your current diet. When high cholesterol is a concern, avoid saturated fats such as bacon, processed meats, butter, and creams. There are healthy fats though that you can still have like olive or canola oil, fish, and raw almonds. Eating more fiber will also help lower your cholesterol naturally. You can get fiber from the foods you eat such as whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Try avoiding refined grains like white rice, white flour, or pasta. When you have a choice, pick the whole grain option for optimum fiber. Also eating more fish or taking fish oil daily will help you get a healthy dose of Omega-3’s. Omega-3’s are a great way to lower your cholesterol, while still getting to eat great foods like tuna, salmon, and more. Last but certainly not least, stop smoking! Smoking causes your HDL (good) cholesterol to go down. Smoking has many negative effects, so adding high cholesterol onto this list is just another reason for consumers to stop.
Have you suffered from high cholesterol?
December 13, 2018 /0 Comments/by Adam Harmon
Tags: hcg exercise, health
Share this entry
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share by Mail
https://www.yourhcg.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/tips-for-lowering-cholesterol.jpg 354 483 Adam Harmon /wp-content/uploads/2017/03/HCG-Diet-Drops-Logo.png Adam Harmon2018-12-13 22:37:322018-12-13 22:37:32Tips on Lowering Cholesterol
You might also like
HCG Diet And Exercise For A Healthy And Happy Life
Can HCG Weight Loss Cure Americas Obesity?
HCG Diet Health
Exercise On the HCG Diet
Taking vitamins on the HCG diet
Here Is How The HCG Diet Can Prevent Diabetes
0 replies
Leave a Reply
Want to join the discussion?
Feel free to contribute!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
HCG Diet Blog
Top HCG Secrets That Will Ensure You Lose The Most Weight As Safely As PossibleFebruary 19, 2019 - 6:52 AM
HCG Warnings You Need To Take Note Of Before You BuyFebruary 18, 2019 - 6:47 AM
Using HCG Is Easier Than You Think And Produces Incredible ResultsFebruary 17, 2019 - 6:44 AM
HCG Strategies You Need To Know For The Best Results PossibleFebruary 16, 2019 - 6:41 AM
The Battle Over HCG Drops and How to Win ItFebruary 15, 2019 - 6:32 AM
*The dietary information provided by Your HCG is not intended to diagnose, treat, or cure any illness or to provide medical advice. We are not medical doctors and we do not prescribe medication. As with any weight loss program, individual results may vary. If you have any questions about the relationship between nutrition and supplements, we recommend that you seek advice of a qualified and licensed health practitioner. Our opinions are based on literature and research by a variety of medical doctors, naturopathic physicians, biochemists, and other professional researchers. HCG drops and the HCG diet is not approved by the FDA for weight loss. Your HCG is manufactured in an FDA licensed and approved laboratory for safety. You are encouraged to make your health care decisions based on your own research and the advice of a qualified health care professional.
SUBSCRIBE AND SAVE
to receive the latest promos.
Your HCG Links
Money Back Guarantee
Shipping Information
Wholesale HCG
HCG Affiliate Program
Your HCG Social Media
About Your HCG
HCG Diet Links
HCG Diet Info
HCG Diet FAQ
HCG Diet Reviews
What is HCG And How Can It Benefit Your Life?
Dr. Simeons Pounds and Inches Protocol
HCG Diet Plan
HCG Diet Recipes
HCG Drops: Do They Work?
HCG Injections vs. HCG Drops
Recent HCG Diet Posts
Top HCG Secrets That Will Ensure You Lose The Most Weight As Safely As Possible
HCG Warnings You Need To Take Note Of Before You Buy
Using HCG Is Easier Than You Think And Produces Incredible Results
HCG Strategies You Need To Know For The Best Results Possible
The Battle Over HCG Drops and How to Win It
SUBSCRIBE AND SAVE
to receive the latest promos.
Harmful Side Effects of a Diet High in Sugar and High Fructose Corn Syrup Trainer Gains 70 Pounds And Then Loses It All On Purpose [VIDEO]
Scroll to top