Green coffee - just the facts — Lemarbet
Lemarbet Digital
Marketing
Agency
Best cases Request Quote
Green coffee – just the facts
facebook
telegram
viber
twitter
The demand for green coffee today is high, and living up to the hype. How do you explain it – exceptional quality and its curative effect or a powerful marketing phenomenon that turned unroasted coffee beans into one of the most popular and sought-after products on the market today? Should I buy green coffee for weight loss? Are the miraculous properties claimed in the advertising true?
Finding answers to these pressing issues is hampered by the fact that among coffee specialists and experts, both Ukrainian and foreign, there is no consensual opinion. Their general reaction to the question, “Will green coffee help me lose weight?” is rather skeptical. Usually, experts limit themselves to neutral remarks – it is impossible to draw concrete conclusions about the physiological effect of green coffee, as the amount of research on the subject is inadequate. Real consumers’ reviews are often radically different from each other, and buying green coffee to lose weight at all costs and at the same time blindly relying on the accuracy of the green coffee businesses’ claims is unlikely to be reasonable.
Try to understand the above issues, based on the facts and the most qualified sources. In this case, we will treat the information from manufacturers cautiously and with some degree of distrust, as they are directly interested in increasing sales of green coffee and the growth of prices for it.
Question №1. What is green coffee?
Green coffee is the refined grains of coffee berries that have not been heat-treated, and keep all the naturally bestowed properties and quality. On the Ukrainian market today you can order green coffee online or buy it from stores in the following forms:
Green coffee beans;
Milled green coffee (variant – crushed grains);
Milled green coffee with further ingredients – ginger, cardamom, collagen, and so forth;
The extract from green coffee beans (with or without additives);
A mixture of natural roast and green coffee.
Advice to buyers:
If you are going to order online and buy green coffee to lose weight, be sure you know how you like your unroasted beans. In particular, it will save you from purchasing low-quality products under the guise of valuable high-end products, especially appreciating the coffee market, not the green coffee market. Grain-class, the price of which is the highest, will have a distinctive gray-blue tint. It goes without saying that the grain should be uniform without cracks, splits and wormholes.
Question №2. What are the ingredients of green coffee?
Studies of the chemical composition of coffee beans today cannot be considered completed, although more than a thousand components contained in coffee have already been discovered. These include a variety of organic acids – malic, citric, acetic, coffee and others. But we are most interested in the chlorogenic acid, which in many ways is the cause of the extraordinary popularity of green coffee as a means to lose weight.
Chlorogenic acid is a very potent antioxidant, which decreases the number of free radicals in the human body. Their abundance, as is known, serves as a provoking factor for an impressive number of diseases, including some very serious ones, not to mention the fact that it can cause signs of premature aging. The chlorogenic acid content of beans critically falls during the heat treatment, while in the beverage of green coffee beans its percentage remains high. Enumerating the other essential fatty acids to humans, we also should mention linoleic (54%), palmitic (27%), oleic (8%), stearic (6%) and arachidonic acid (2.8%).
In the chemical composition of coffee beans, there are two dozen amino acids, carbohydrates, proteins and tannins, and, of course, caffeine, which actively comes into its own at the end of the process of roasting the green beans. The last mentioned substances, at a reasonable and moderate dosage, are capable of stimulating lymphatic drainage, helping in the work of the heart and nervous system, activating memory, and getting rid of spasmodic pains and migraines.
Conclusions:
It is evident that the coffee beans really are an invaluable source of some of the most important substances for human health. Green coffee beans contain no fewer antioxidants than red wine, olive oil, or even green tea. Let us not lose sight of the undeniable fact that in the United States in 2012, an extract of green coffee beans broke every conceivable record, finishing in first place in marketability among drugs for weight loss. This phenomenon (and the numerous rave reviews) cannot be explained by successful marketing alone.
Question №3. What is the harm of green coffee and for whom is it contraindicated?
If you are trying to understand how to drink green coffee to lose weight properly, you cannot do it from the information on the packaging alone. Carefully research the contraindications for its use, and possible side effects, the occurrence of which should make you stop the course of a dietary product. Drinking green coffee is definitely contraindicated for the following conditions:
pregnancy and lactation;
diabetes;
glaucoma;
a bleeding disorder;
osteoporosis;
arterial hypertension.
Particular attention should be paid to the most popular combination of ginger and green coffee. Whether or not ginger helps the weight loss process is an open question. But ginger increases the number of contraindications, adding to the list: cholelithiasis, almost all gastrointestinal diseases, skin diseases, hemorrhoids, cirrhosis and hepatitis C.
In fairness, it should be noted that all the damage and all the green coffee “side effects” almost word for word will coincide with the effect of excessive consumption of the black (roasted) coffee. Caffeine, of course, is to blame. Numerous critics of the favorite dietary product often speculate known test results – the initial phase of nausea in some test participants. But if you buy green coffee and drink it without observing the precautions, you may experience much more severe side effects, including:
insomnia;
anxiety and depression;
difficulty concentrating;
rapid or irregular heartbeat;
deterioration of blood clotting;
redness of the face and muscle tension;
increased intraocular pressure.
You should know:
The extract of green coffee is a dietary supplement, not a drug. This means that its production does not require the same quality standards, which means unpredictable percentages of caffeine in products from different manufacturers. Before you buy green beans or start drinking their extract for weight loss, also check the list of prescription drugs that interact badly with caffeine. The menu is pretty impressive and includes many drugs for diabetes and high blood pressure.
Question №4. Is it true that green coffee helps to lose weight?
According to the well known joke: “Green coffee is a great help to lose weight if you collect it from morning to evening on the plantations.” The truth is that green coffee by itself does not guarantee weight loss, as it cannot burn fat in the body, but it is an excellent dietary product, able to activate the metabolic processes and possessing an excellent diuretic effect.
You have probably read a lot of tips – how to prepare green coffee beans, how to drink green coffee with ginger, slimming reviews: “Is it possible for green coffee to help me lose weight?”, “What are your opinions about green coffee?”, “Green coffee is a panacea”, “Green coffee is a scam; don’t waste your money”, etc.. The decision is yours. It is tempting, of course, to believe those reviews from people who say they’ve lost 15-18 kg in two weeks. And green coffee and ginger have each individually proven to be effective so, of course, we expect good results from their combination. But once we would like to stress that it will not make you lose weight if you are going to drink it with your favorite hot sandwiches with mayonnaise, sausage and melted cheese.
What can green coffee with ginger actually offer?
Chlorogenic acid, which we talked about above, will become the chief assistant on the road to health and weight loss. It can:
balance blood sugar levels;
reduce appetite;
reduce cravings for sweets and biscuits;
work as an antioxidant;
accelerate metabolic processes.
Ginger, in turn, will create conditions for the following effects:
acceleration of removing excess fluids from the body;
optimization of metabolic processes;
activation of taste receptors;
improving digestion;
increasing energy levels and vitality.
These factors, associated with a beneficial effect on the digestive system, can have a positive impact on your appearance. This suggests a noticeable cosmetic effect from the consumption of green coffee with ginger – drinking it regularly improves complexion and skin tone. Oil, extracted from green coffee beans, is widely used to strengthen hair, for skin care, restoring its protective function, preventing the appearance of wrinkles, eliminate stretch marks and even for treatment of burns. Reviews of its effects are in most cases very positive.
Conclusions:
Green coffee as a means of losing weight is really useful only in combination with diet and exercise. The result of such diets is directly dependent on the general state of your health, your individual ratio of fat mass and muscle, as well as your initial rate of metabolism. Reviews of the miraculous power of the grain that claim it can make you lose 10-15 kg in two weekrs are hardly accurate and fair. The combination of chlorogenic acid and caffeine does not reduce body fat as such, but it does help control appetite and prevent the absorption of fats.
Question №5. How do you prepare green coffee beans?
The question, “How do you brew green coffee beans?” is fraught with pitfalls. All nutrients, including aromatic components contained in the feedstock – whole green beans – have a significantly higher hardness than when roasted. Grinding them at home is very difficult even with the help of home grinders; however, you may be able to crush them using the old reliable grinder. If you read on the packaging, “pour hot water on the whole grains,” think about it – is it really possible to extract the valuable substances of such super-hard, dense grains with hot water. It’s like trying to boil stones. So, we have a real dilemma – how do you grind green coffee beans? To achieve fine grinding without breaking the home coffee grinder is almost impossible. User reviews often talk about ruined millstone grinders, and that an electric one is more resistant. Brewing the fruit whole fruit is pretty much pointless. We have to seek a middle ground – to push the grain grinder, achieving fragmentation of each grain of at least 4-6 pieces, or buy ready-made, ground green coffee with or without additives. Some reviews offer another way to grind the green beans (quite exotic) – two sheets of paper or food film and a meat tenderizing mallet, but this applies only to those who have broken the grinder, but still not lost the burning desire to enjoy the useful drink.
You can brew ground green coffee in any way you like:
in a coffee machine;
in a Turkish coffee pot;
using a French press;
just in the circle.
French press is better to use for brewing coarse grains. Order grain-milled if you are going to make coffee using the capsule and drip coffee makers, as well as the geyser-type coffee machines. The ground-almost-to-a-powder green coffee can be brewed in a Turkish coffee pot.
To brew green coffee in a Turkish coffee pot, use 250 ml of water per two full teaspoons of powder. The brewing principles of green coffee have no significant differences from the method of brewing roast and ground coffee. Cold water should be poured into the Turkish coffee pot filled with coffee powder, then adjusted to a simmer, but without allowing the beverage to bubble. Repeating the process several times will provide a stronger and more flavorful result. Adding spices and other ingredients should be done at the first stage by mixing cinnamon or cardamom, etc. with ground coffee. The color of the resulting beverage will be a yellowish-pink. The taste, as evidenced by reviews – refreshing, with a slight acidity.
To prepare a concentrated beverage – extract of the green beans – you should use a 6:1 ratio of water to grains, then simmer for fifteen minutes on a low heat, or for longer (some insist to leave it for two hours). Carefully strain it through a cheesecloth and store it in the refrigerator. It is recommended to drink half a cup twice a day, 20 minutes before eating.
Please note:
The first time you try green coffee may be disappointing because its flavor and aroma characteristics are far removed from those of usual black coffee, and it doesn’t look particularly appetizing. But, at the same time, the taste, color and smell are by no means disgusting; there is just a striking contrast between the tantalizing aroma of the roasted beans with their many nuances – chocolate, nut or fruit notes – and the smell of the “raw straw” that is the magical green drink.
Question №6. Where can I buy green coffee beans or ground green coffee beans?
You should bear one important caveat in mind: in the case of roasting, coffee beans pass through a kind of sterilization (the treatment temperature reaches 250 degrees) and they are then packed in sealed vacuum packages or cans. But the green grain is stored in conventional jute bags. Now let’s think – is the potential for weight loss and health benefits worth regularly consuming a drink made from green coffee beans that have not passed through steps such as fermentation, washing, drying, storing, packing, shipping and transportation, with no guarantees of hygiene and sanitary food standards?
To buy high-quality coffee and brew a healthy drink, give preference to trusted shops or online resources that can offer you a minimum of:
environmentally friendly packaging;
guarantee of the freshness of the product;
green coffee beans without additives and impurities;
a wide range of species and varieties of coffee.
Conclusion:
Buying green coffee beans for weight loss from an untrusted or unknown seller will be a great risk. Cellophane bags with green beans at a low price and print-out instructions for their use should be avoided. Do not entirely trust any overt advertising or particularly critical reviews.
facebook
google
twitter
(13 rating, average: 5.00 of 5)
Loading...
BLOG & NEWS
Related entries Green coffee – just the facts
Kyiv to host AI Conference, annual artificial intelligence conference, on June 4
iDigital – large-scale digital marketing conference
Espresso – the coffee king
How to cook a delicious coffee? Top 10 Secrets
Species and varieties of coffee – the coffee start
Roasting coffee – technology, types and methods
Turk for coffee – a tool, assistant and friend
Latte – a flight of fancy on glass with espresso
Leave a comment
Leave a response Отменить ответ
Your email will not be published.
'); // // Defining the Status message element // var statusdiv=$('#comment-status'); // commentform.submit(function(){ // // Serialize and store form data // var formdata=commentform.serialize(); // //Add a status message // statusdiv.html('
Processing...
'); // //Extract action URL from commentform // var formurl=commentform.attr('action'); // //Post Form with data // $.ajax({ // type: 'post', // url: formurl, // data: formdata, // error: function(XMLHttpRequest, textStatus, errorThrown){ // statusdiv.html('
You might have left one of the fields blank, or be posting too quickly
'); // }, // success: function(data, textStatus){ // if(data=="success") // statusdiv.html('
Thanks for your comment. We appreciate your response.
'); // else // statusdiv.html('
Please wait a while before posting your next comment
'); // commentform.find('textarea[name=comment]').val(''); // } // }); // return false; // }); // });
Lemarbet
LEMARBET © COPYRIGHT 2018.
SEO+500% » Food & Cocktails » Green coffee – just the facts
Outsourcing SEO Company and SEO case studies and Internet marketing blog