Lowering Your High Cholesterol Naturally!
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. For the best experience on our site, be sure to turn on Javascript in your browser.
Skip to Content
Sign In
Create an Account
Offers for you
877-240-7528 M-F PST
FAQ
Testimonials
Toggle Nav
My Cart
Search
Search
Advanced Search
Search
Compare Products
Menu
SHOP All Products
Children
Home Tests
Homeopathics
HVS Laboratories
Detoxosode
Multi Vitamins
Skin Products
Stress Reduction Program
Xtras
What's NEW
Featured Products
SPECIALS
Bestsellers
Crohns & Colitis Program
Health Concern
Acid Reflux GERD
Acute Care
Autism
Candida
Cholesterol Care
Colitis (Ulcerative Colitis)
Constipation
Crohns Colitis for Children
Crohns Disease
Diarrhea
Diverticulitis
Dysbiosis in the Gut
Gastritis
Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Intestinal Permeability
Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)
Lactose Intolerance
Leaky Gut
Prenatal
Small Intestine Bacterial Overgrowth SIBO
Supplement Type
Anti Fungals
Anti Inflammatories
Digestive Support
Enzymes
Essential Fatty Acids
Green Food Supplements
Immune System Support
Memory, Sleep & Stress Relief
Natural Laxative
Nutrition & Immune Support
Prebiotics
Probiotics
Spray Vitamins
Men's Health
Women's Health
Brand
Alfasigma
Allergy Research Group
Argentyn 23
Aloe Complete
Aubrey
BHI
BioGenesis
Carlson Labs
Colief
Complementary Prescriptions
Country Life
DaVinci Labs
Dr Clark
Dr Christopher's
Dynamic Nutritional
Ecological Formulas
Energetix
Endurance Products
Essential Formulas
Gaia Herbs
Garden of Life
Digestive Health GOL
Extraordinary Beauty GOL
Foundational Nutrition GOL
Immunity & Inflammation GOL
myKind Organics
Oceans 3 EFA's GOL
Vitamin Code - Raw,Organic
Genestra
Ilhwa
Innate Response
Integrative Therapeutics
Intensive Nutrition
Kirkman
Klaire Labs
Life Extension
Metagenics
Montiff
New Life Process
Nordic Naturals Omegas
North American Herb & Spice
NOW
NutriBiotic
Optimox
Perfect Pass Vitamins
Professional Botanicals
Progressive Labs
ProSymbiotics
ProThera
Protocol For Life Balance
Pure Encapsulations
Rainbow Light Nutrition
RegActiv Probiotics
RLC Labs
Saba
Seravita
Seroyal
Smart Nutrition
Spray Vitamins by Pacifica
Thorne Research
Visbiome
Vital Nutrients
Blog
Account
Home
Blog
Lowering Your High Cholesterol Naturally!
Lowering Your High Cholesterol Naturally!
When you were first diagnosed with high cholesterol, your doctor may have talked to you about exercise.
Besides improving your diet, exercising is one of the most effective lifestyle changes you can make to help bring your numbers down naturally.
You may have thought at the time, “I hate running.” Or maybe you like running, but you’ve been too busy lately to take care of yourself. Or you’ve been sidelined lately because of an injury...Or maybe you don’t mind jogging in the park, but you hate the treadmill or being inside a gym..
Running isn’t the only way to turn your health around. There’s no doubt that it’s an effective aerobic exercise, but several other good choices are available that can help counteract the negative affects high cholesterol has on your health.
Why exercise is effective at lowering cholesterol
Cholesterol is one of the fatty substances we have circulating in our blood. If we have too much, it can stick to the inside walls of our arteries, narrowing them and increasing risk of cardiovascular disease.
It is not only the amount of cholesterol in the blood that affects our risk, though. Other factors play a part.
One of these is the type of protein that carries the cholesterol through the body. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is more likely to cause problems.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol protects the body from cholesterol buildup.
Exercise helps increase levels of HDL good cholesterol. Researchers reported on this in Lipids in Health and Disease. Physically active women had significantly higher levels of HDL cholesterol than sedentary women.
Another study published in Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology found similar results.
In men with belly fat, regular endurance exercise increased HDL good cholesterol levels.
Exercise may even change the nature of our cholesterol.
In 2002, researchers from Duke University Medical Center found that exercise improved the number and size of the particles carrying cholesterol through the body. Those who exercised more had larger, “fluffier” particles that were less likely to clog arteries.
Exercise can help you lower cholesterol numbers even if you’re overweight.
In the Journal of Obesity, researchers reported that overweight and obese adults who walked, jogged, and cycled while eating a cholesterol-lowering diet improved total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels.
Best exercises for lowering cholesterol
Some research has indicated that it may be that “how much” you exercise is more important than what kind of exercise you do. That means it’s worth it to incorporate more activity into your day however you can. Take a walk during your lunch hour, choose the stairs, stand up to take phone calls, or store a jump rope at your desk.
In addition, try to incorporate at least 30 minutes of structured exercise into each day. Any exercise is better than none, but the following six types have shown in studies to be effective at reducing cholesterol levels.
1. Go for a nice run or jog
If your joints are in good shape and you enjoy jogging, you’re in luck, as this is a great exercise for lowering cholesterol and for managing your weight. Don’t think you have to race, though. An easy jog for a few miles may be better for lowering cholesterol than a fast sprint around the block.
In a 2013 study published in the Archives of Internal Medicine, researchers reported that long-distance runners showed significantly better improvements in HDL cholesterol levels than short-distance runners (less than 10 miles a week). They also saw better improvements in their blood pressure.
2. Take a brisk walk
Whether walking is as good as running for cardiovascular health has long been the subject of debate. Especially as we get older, walking can often be a much better exercise in terms of protecting joint health.
Researchers reported good news on this in 2013 in the journal Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology. They compared tens of thousands of runners to an equal number of walkers. Results showed that the amount of exercise was what mattered, not the type.
People who exerted the same level of energy when exercising experienced similar benefits, whether they walked or ran. Benefits included reduced risk of high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
It takes longer to walk off calories than to run them off. If you burn 300 calories either way, though, you’ve spent about the same amount of energy. You are likely to experience similar benefits.
Lead author of the study above, Paul Williams, stated that walking 4.3 miles at a brisk pace would take about the same amount of energy as running three miles.
3. Bike to work or just for fun
Cycling expends about the same energy as jogging, but it’s easier on your joints. That’s an important thing for many people as they age. Hips and knees are vulnerable to arthritis, and we all do need to watch out for them. If you’re starting to feel some pain in these joints, it may be best to choose cycling over running.
If it’s possible to bike to work, try it. Studies have shown some positive benefits. Scientists reported in the Journal of the American Heart Association that people who biked to work were less likely to develop high cholesterol than those who didn’t.
A second study published in Circulation found that cycling reduces risk of heart disease. A group of adults between the ages of 50–65 who regularly spent time biking had 11–18 fewer heart attacks over the period of 20 years than those who didn’t.
4. Take a few laps at the pool
Swimming is probably the most joint-saving aerobic exercise you can do.
In a 2010 study, researchers compared swimming with walking in women aged 50 to 70 years. They found that swimming improved body weight, body fat distribution, and LDL cholesterol levels better than walking did.
Researchers also looked at the beneficial effects of swimming in men in the International Journal of Aquatic Research and Education. They found that swimmers had 53 percent, 50 percent, and 49 percent lower risk of dying from any cause than did men who were sedentary, walkers, or runners, respectively.
5. Lift a few weights
So far, we’ve been talking mostly about aerobic exercise. It is the type of exercise most commonly recommended for reducing risk of heart disease.
Some research suggests, though, that resistance training is also extremely beneficial for those with high cholesterol. The journal Atherosclerosis published a study showing that those who participated in resistance training were able to clear LDL from their bloodstream faster than those who didn’t. Resistance training can also help you protect cardiovascular health. In BMC Public Health, scientists reported that combining resistance and aerobic exercise helped people lose more weight and fat than either of these alone. The combination also created increased cardiovascular fitness.
Don’t think you’re too old to try weight lifting. It helps people of any age!!
The Journals of Gerontology published a study on women aged 70–87 years. Those who participated in a resistance-training program for about 11 weeks had significantly lower LDL cholesterol and total cholesterol levels compared with those who didn’t.
6. Strike a few yoga poses
After all this talk about aerobic exercise and lifting weights, it may seem odd that yoga would show up on the list. After all, yoga is mostly stretching, right?
Studies show, however, that yoga may reduce risk of heart disease. In some cases, it may directly affect cholesterol levels.
Researchers reported in the Indian Heart Journal that a three-month yoga program helped reduce total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. It also improved HDL cholesterol levels in diabetics. The participants practiced for about one hour a day.
In a large study review published in the European Journal of Preventive Cardiology, those who regularly practiced yoga showed significant improvement in LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and blood pressure over those who didn’t exercise.
Most any exercise will do — If you do it often!!
All of these exercises are helpful for reducing cholesterol and protecting you from cardiovascular disease. You can choose which is best for you based on your overall health, joint health, and lifestyle.
There are other options, as well. If you play tennis or dance regularly, you’re likely to be expending about the same energy as someone who walks briskly or runs.
The important thing is to get in at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise daily, with resistance training two times a week. Then add in more throughout your day when you can. Wherever you are, get up and move!
Source: healthline.com
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, MSN, RN, CRNA — Written by Colleen Story
Image Source: healthline.com
March 19, 2019 | Categories: Digestive Health, Homeopathy, Immune Support, Nutrition, Perfect Food, Prebiotics, Probiotics, Recipes, Stress Management , Vitamins, Yoga
Share this post, Hit on social buttons!
Related Products
Endur-Acin 500 mg Extended Release Niacin 500mg 200 tabs Endurance Products
Special Price $27.90 Regular Price $35.00
Rating:
100%
1 Review
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
RAW CoQ10 60 caps Garden of Life
Special Price $38.49 Regular Price $54.99
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Meta Sitosterol 2.0 90 tabs Metagenics
Special Price $48.59 Regular Price $55.95
Rating:
100%
1 Review
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Niacin Vitamin B3 90 vcaps Allergy Research Group
$14.24
Rating:
100%
1 Review
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
ProOmega LDL 180 sgels Nordic Naturals
Special Price $65.41 Regular Price $76.95
Rating:
100%
2 Reviews
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Prebiotics 210g Powder Perfect Pass
Special Price $35.95 Regular Price $41.95
Rating:
100%
12 Reviews
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Probiotic 30 caps Perfect Pass
Special Price $44.95 Regular Price $49.95
Rating:
100%
11 Reviews
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Policosanol 20mg 60 vcaps Pure Encapsulations
Special Price $32.80 Regular Price $57.50
Rating:
100%
1 Review
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Red Yeast Rice 1200mg 120 tabs Now
$35.99
Add to Cart
Add to Wish List Add to Compare
Comments
Login
Comment
Powered by Magento 2 Extensions by Mageplaza
Search
Popular
Statins or Natural Cholesterol Care February 7, 2017
What is Cocoa Butter? January 4, 2017
Why Everyone Should Take Omega-3 Fatty Acids!! February 27, 2019
Why Should You Take a Stool Test? February 10, 2017
Garden Of Life Primal Defense Ultra – Your Solution For Good Gut Health February 10, 2016
Latest
The Importance of Probiotics & Fish Oil in Pregnancy! April 10, 2019
Digestive Problems...What to avoid!! April 6, 2019
Lowering Your High Cholesterol Naturally! March 19, 2019
Why Everyone Should Take Omega-3 Fatty Acids!! February 27, 2019
Don’t Let Sugary Treats Trigger Your IBS! February 15, 2019
Categories
Health Condition
Beauty / Skin
Autism
Brain Function
Children's Health
Crohn's Disease
Detox
Digestive Health
Good Gut Solution
Homeopathy
Hormone Health
Immune Support
Infertility
Nutrition
PH Balance
Stress Management
Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Health Library
Massage
Perfect Food
Prebiotics
Probiotics
Recipes
Tests
Vitamins
Garden of Life
Books
Water Filtration
Yoga
Monthly Archive
April , 2019 (2)
March , 2019 (1)
February , 2019 (2)
December , 2018 (3)
November , 2018 (1)
Topics
Good Gut Health
Autism
Beauty and Skin
Tags
good gut solution digestive health gut health PHGG Prebiotic Prebiotic prebiotics probiotics Probiotic autism bacteria Candida Cholesterol colitis Constipation crohns crohns disease Diet Dr. Ohhira Dr Ohhira's Probiotics Glutathione dysbiosis food Garden of Life Health Human Microbiome Vitamins vsl #3 ulcerative colitis Supplements Ross Pelton sibo stress Microbiome nutrition kiran Krishnan leaky gut Karen Thomas Irritable Bowel Syndrome Intestinal Permeability inflammation Immune System IBS Immune Support Human Microbiome Project ibd
Company Information
Health Blog
Auto Ship
Privacy policy
Our company
About Us
Order Status
Wishlist
My Account
Returns and Exchanges
Testimonials
Get Social
Join us on Facebook and get recent news about our new products and offers.
Newsletter
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
Join 25,000+ subscribers and learn about natural treatments for Crohns, Colitis and IBS. Plus 10% off coupon (excluding all Lab Tests).
About Us
Crohns.net - Good Gut Solution - HealthyLifeUSA
616 Corporate Way, Suite 2-9047
Valley Cottage, NY 10989
1.877.240.7528 M-F PST (US Toll free)
1.442.232.5252
Email Us
Crohns.net - Good Gut Solution's unique approach to complementary health care combines both Western and Eastern philosophies using products and techniques that promote long term benefits. Through education, behavior modification and supplementation, participants in our programs see remarkable improvements. We have over 30 years of successful experience in treating those suffering with diverse digestive conditions including Crohn's Disease, Ulcerative Colitis, Leaky Gut Syndrome, Dysbiosis and Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).
Orders and Returns
Search Terms
Contact Us
Advanced Search
Blog
Site Map
Testimonials
Copyright © 2019 Crohns.net - Good Gut Solution - HealthyLifeUSA. All rights reserved.
SKU :