MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles - Magnetic Attraction
Loading... Please wait...
My Account
Order Status
Wish Lists
View Cart
Sign in or Create an account
Home
Information
Terms of Use
FAQ's
Refund Policy
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Resources & Links
Testimonials
Search
Advanced Search | Search Tips
Categories
Magnetic Body Clips and Shoulder Pads
Magnetic Travel Products
Travel Mat
Magnetic Body Supports and Leather Wrist Straps
Mattress Pads / Underlays/Pillow Inserts
Magnetic Water Products
Magnetic Jewellery
Magnetic Pet Collars and Mats
Rare Earth Magnetic Discs
Vinyl Sealed Magnets
Essential Wallets
New Products
Magnetic Bra Strap - Black Cotton
$45.00
Add To Cart
2 PACK Magnetic Therapy Clip for Back, Shoulder, Arthritis, Sciatica, Period Pain, Gastric Reflux, Heartburn, Menopausal Symptoms.
$105.00
Choose Options
Magnetic Plantar Fasciitis Strap
$25.00
Choose Options
MINI Magnetic Therapy Clip for Shoulder, Arthritis, Gastric Reflux, Great for Children
$40.00
Choose Options
Motion Ease - Travel Sickness Strap with Magnet
$18.00
Choose Options
Our Newsletter
Your First Name: Your Email Address:
Home
Magnetic Body Supports and Leather Wrist Straps
MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles
MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles
See 6 more pictures
RRP:
Price (AUD):
$34.00
SKU:
EStraps5000
Vendor:
Brand:
Condition:
Weight:
47.00 Grams
Rating:
( 20 product reviews )
Availability:
Shipping:
Calculated at checkout
Minimum Purchase:
unit(s)
Maximum Purchase:
unit(s)
:
Gift Wrapping:
Size:
Choose a Size Purple 23cm	Blue 29cm	Maroon 35cm	Green 41cm	Red 46cm	Navy 54cm	Black 60cm
Quantity:
Buy in bulk and save
Product Description
The Magnetic EASY STRAP
SIMILAR to our Famous BODY STRAP..... Although it looks the same......the difference is "The magnets are SEWN into the strap"
We had clients ask us to make a strap which was EASY to use as many people didn't want to have removable magnets, so we designed the EASY STRAP. They contain powerful Rare Earth Magnets which are sewn into the strap with a comfortable soft elastic casing. You simply place it around the area where you are experiencing the discomfort and pain.
The Magnetic EASY STRAP is made from neoprene and original "VELCRO® Brand hoo and loop", is color coded into sizes, as below.
Amount of Rare Earth Magnets in Each EASY STRAP
SIZING:
The Sizes on the straps are from end to end, please measure yourself and add approx 8cm for overlap onto the VELCRO® brand hook and loop. Eg. If you knee measures 35cm, you would need the 41cm strap. The strap is made from Neoprene which naturally has a stretch, so there will be some allowance for fastening.
Purple23cm - 2 Rare Earth Magnets
Blue 29cm - 3 Rare Earth Magnets
Maroon 35cm - 4 Rare Earth Magnets
Green 41cm - 5 Rare Earth Magnets
Red 46cm - 5 Rare Earth Magnets
Navy 54cm - 6 Rare Earth Magnets
Simply place your “EASY STRAP” on the area that needs relief,
NOTE: The straps are worn with the black side of the Neoprene facing outwards and the elastic casing facing the body.
The Magnetic Attraction EASY STRAP has been designed for use on:
Ankle – Foot problems, ankle soreness, achilles tendon, sprains, leg cramps
Knee - Use as a patella support. Can also be wrapped in a figure 8 around your hand as a support and to treat the top of the hand or the thumb joint.
Wrist - Carpal tunnel syndrome, RSI,. Arthritis, Tendonitis, Sprains, Tingling etc
Elbow - Tennis Elbow/Golfers elbow.
Thigh - Sports injuries
Neck - Neck/ headaches etc
Waist - Lower back, period discomfort, sciatica etc.
Make sure that the black side of the neoprene is facing outwards and the elastic casing are facing the body, this will ensure the correct closure.
Should you require a special size strap made up, this can be arranged for you. Please feel free to phone or email us to discuss your needs.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Persons who are fitted with pacemakers, defibrillators, implanted insulin pumps or other electro-medical devices should not use magnetic products. Magnets should always be kept at least 4-20 inches (10cm -50cm) away from computer hard drives. Also do not store magnets near any products with a battery, ie mobile phones OR your credit cards.
PREGNANCY: Due to the fact that no research has been done on the effect of magnetic products during pregnancy, we advise women not to use magnetic therapy until after the birth.
Always check with your health professional if ever in doubt.
Find Similar Products by Category
Magnetic Body Supports and Leather Wrist Straps
Product Reviews
Write Your Own Review
1. How do you rate this product?
5 stars (best) 4 stars 3 stars (average) 2 stars 1 star (worst)
2. Write a headline for your review here:
3. Write your review here:
4. Enter your name: (optional)
5. Enter the code below:
Showing reviews 1-10 of 20 | Next
Was NOT a believer until now
Posted by Krystelle on 19th Feb 2019
I have to say that I was not a believer in the effectiveness of magnets. When my husband talked about getting some to try, I thought well even if he just thinks that they help him and finds some improvement due to that, I would be happy!
He had experienced progressive deterioration (pain ++) and lack of mobility, and for the last week or so had been having to use a walking stick to get to the bathroom (he's only 51!) I was shocked and very pleasantly surprised to see the visible improvement in only the first few hours of wearing the ankle strap and plantar strap.
The swelling he had experienced for many weeks was markedly reduced, pain reduced, and he was mobilising much more easily by the next morning!
Cramps in Legs GONE
Posted by Keith Slater - The Basin on 15th Jan 2019
Dear Gerardine
i've been using your products for 3 years now, and they are truly amazing.
i started with your magnetic inner soles, as i had very cold feet and bad circulation, and, as you said, they increased my circulation, my feet always feel warm, and a callus
growing on my sole, which i had to cut off all the time, hardly grows at all.
because of this bad circulation, when i sleep, i would get cramp in my feet, so i tried your easy strap.
i wrapped it around my foot, i couldn't believe how quickly it was relieved. now i put the straps on my feet
when i go to bed, and no cramp.
just recently i had VERY bad cramp in my left foot, it was really beating the power of the magnets in the easy strap, and i couldn't get to sleep, i thought, maybe i need more power, i had just got one of your clips for my back, its a bigger and stronger magnet, so i put that under the strap. it was unbelievable, just a few seconds, cramp gone.
i now use your products all over my body, my doctor has even noticed that i have cut down on my pain medication scripts.
Magnetic Knee strap worked straight away
Posted by Katie - Narre Warren on 9th Nov 2018
I’ve been having problems with my knee for over 6 months, when I started wearing the knee strap, the pain went away and my knee has been good ever since. I’m a tradie, and after wearing the strap at work for half a day the pain went away. I am very happy with this product
Magnetic Wrist strap for Carpal Tunnel
Posted by Maryanne on 27th May 2018
Almost instant relief for my carpal tunnel pain.. it really is very effective. Many thanks!
Knee pain disappeared in 7 mins
Posted by Farina on 13th Nov 2017
This product was gifted to us by my Aunt and boy did it do wonders for my dad. He is 75 years old and he had knee pain. He put on her magnetic straps and the pain literally disappeared in 7 mins!! This is a truly amazing product and highly recommended!! A+++
Magneti Easy Strap worked on Panful Swollen Knee
Posted by Irene - Malvern on 30th Aug 2017
"There is just no end to the power of these magnets!
My partner and I can’t believe the amazing effects these magnets have on our bodies. We bought the pillow inserts and could not believe that from the first night, we have been getting such a deep, restful night sleep. My partner even says he’s been dreaming a lot more.
The magnetic body clips are also fantastic. My partner and I both suffer from back pain, however when we clip these around our lower back area, the pain is just gone! It’s such a weird feeling to have pain that you’ve become accustomed to for so long, just disappear! I do a lot of computer work, so I’ve also found the clips to be great around the shoulder (trapezius) area as well.
My partner has a problem knee (pain and swelling), but when he puts on his magnetic knee support strap, the pain is gone within 20 minutes, and swelling subsides considerably.
We just wish we had discovered these magnets sooner!!
Gerry’s extensive knowledge and experience with the magnets is just priceless – after speaking with her for only a short time, it is obvious that she has been doing this for quite a while and she really knows what she’s talking about. A true professional.
We are now looking forward to our new magnetic bed underlay. With the pillows having such a profound effect, I can only imagine what the mattress underlay will do!!"
very surprised how well they work ..
Posted by Jenny - Myotherapist on 7th Jun 2017
Jenny Flagg Myo Therapist
I couldnt beleive how well they worked I give my clients who had carpal Tunnel and knee pain they said the pain was much better they had more movement in the joints the more they used them the less pain so thats great for my clients thanks for a great product i will be buying more for clients ...
Magnetic Easy strap for wrist
Posted by Natasha Dunham WA on 11th Feb 2017
My 13 year old daughter is a gymnast who had pain in her wrist. The pain gradually got worse until we ended up at the physiotherapist. At the end of a very lengthy process we worked out it was an issue with her shoulder flexibility which caused a calcified area on one of her wrist bones which is why she was getting pain. The Magnetic Easy strap allows her to continue training as she needs to and is generating a faster healing process. The calcification is still reducing it is going to be a long healing process.
In December she lost her strap and we didn't replace it immediately, of course she was still training. About a month went by and she told me that her wrist was hurting again and that she didn't realise how much it was actually helping. Hence we have contacted Gerri again and we now have a new one. If she didn't use the magnetic strap she would no longer be able to participate in the sport she loves.
You hear magnetic products and you think older people trying to continue what they love to do but, I have a new found respect for magnetic products even for young people.
Magnetic Knee Straps, no pain, no drugs
Posted by Denise Sullivan on 14th Jan 2017
Hi Gerry
Following my total knee replacement in 2015 the physio was going great, until I suffered a Hemarthosis - a bleed into the knee joint. Pain like I have never known suffice to say.
Wearing the knee straps, one above and below my knee has enabled me to walk without the knee supports I have worn for the past 14 years. My surgeon told me I wouldn't be able to do much physio whilst mother nature healed the bleed, however with the knee straps I am doing physio, riding the exercise bike 4 times daily.
Wearing the knee straps at night, loosened slightly, has enabled me to get a decent night sleep, without drugs!
If you wish to use this feedback and add to your testimonials, I would be delighted for you to share my experience.
With Knee, ankle and a back magnet I must admit I am careful not to stand too close to my fridge...as I may never get off there! :)
Thank you
Denise Sullivan
88 Year old Happy with his Knee strap and Magnetic Therapy Clip
Posted by Denise Sullivan - Mornington on 19th Feb 2016
I can't thank you enough for the difference in my 88 year old Dad since wearing the knee magnet strap & the clip on magnet for his spinal issues. His health has improved beyond belief!
I would like to add, the 2 knee straps; plus the ankle magnet strap & back clip on have been huge in improving the quality of my life!
Less drugs since using the magnet therapy..... life is on the up & up.
Showing reviews 1-10 of 20 | Next
Customers Who Viewed This Product Also Viewed
Magnetic Therapy Clip for Back, Shoulder, Arthritis, Sciatica, Period Pain, Gastric Reflux, Heartburn, Menopausal Symptoms.
$55.00
Choose Options
Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain
$55.00
Choose Options
Magnetic Water Block for Magnetizing Water (Ying Yang)
$65.00
Add To Cart
Magnetic Dog collar
$26.00
Choose Options
Add to Wish List
Click the button below to add the MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles to your wish list.
Related Products
Rare Earth Magnets 15mm gold(4) $20.00
Magnetic Leather wrist straps for Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel and Pain $55.00
Magnetic Plantar Fasciitis Strap $25.00
Essential Oils Wallet Small & XSmall - Sewn in inserts $45.00
You Recently Viewed...
MAGNETIC EASY STRAPS - Magnets SEWN into Strap. Magnetic Support Straps, Knee, Elbow, Wrist, ,Plantar Fasciitis, Foot Arches, Ankles
$34.00
Choose Options
All prices are in AUD. Copyright 2019 Magnetic Attraction. Sitemap | E-commerce software by myshophosting.