cold sores | Planned Parenthood Advocates of Arizona
Planned Parenthood Advocates of Arizona
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
PPAA Home
About Our Blog
Commenting Policy
Contact Us
Newsroom
Get Involved
Become a Member
Become a Volunteer
Receive Care
Tag Archives: cold sores
Post navigation
← Older posts
Dental Dams Help Spread Intimacy, Not STDs
Posted on February 14, 2018 by Serena Freewomyn
Reply
It’s that time of the year when people focus on intimacy and romance. Most people think jewelry and roses are good gifts to give for Valentine’s Day. They’re nice, but you know what’s even better? Dental dams.
What’s a dental dam, you ask? Like condoms, dental dams are a way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) by covering the vagina or anus during oral sex. Dental dams are usually made of latex, and some are made from polyurethane. Since they’re used for oral sex, dental dams often come in different flavors, and they’re flexible enough to fit in your purse.
Dental dams are an essential component of protecting your sexual health.
Dental dams are particularly useful for lesbian partners, since oral sex is a common form of sexual activity, but anyone who engages in cunnilingus (the oral stimulation of female genitals) can use them. Dental dams are also beneficial for consenting partners who enjoy anal play (aka “rimming”). Dental dams serve as a barrier against most STDs, since many sexually transmitted diseases, such as syphilis, human papillomavirus (HPV), and herpes, can be passed simply by skin-to-skin contact. Gonorrhea, chlamydia, and hepatitis A and B viruses can also be spread through oral sex. HIV can be transmitted through oral sex if blood is present.
Unfortunately, dental dams aren’t distributed as widely as condoms are. You’re not likely to find a dental dam dispenser in a public restroom, and many community organizations provide dental dams on a request-only basis because they’re more expensive than condoms. And most drug stores don’t carry dental dams in the same aisle as condoms and lube because dental dams were originally created to be used during dental procedures. (Get it — dental dams.) Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in LGBTQ, Sexual Health	| Tagged accessibility, anal sex, anilingus, barrier method, bisexual, blood, chlamydia, cold sores, cunnilingus, dental dams, eat out, gay, genital herpes, gonorrhea, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, herpes, HIV, human papillomavirus, latex, lesbian, LGBT, oral herpes, oral sex, polyurethane, queer, rimming, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infections, syphilis, vagina, Valentine's Day, vulva	| Leave a reply
My Partner Just Told Me They Have Herpes. I Don’t. Now What?
Posted on June 30, 2014 by Anna C.
23
Has your new partner just informed you that he or she has herpes? People have many reactions when hearing this kind of news — and, depending on how informed you are about herpes, your reaction might be tinged with panic or fear. If that’s your instinct, try to keep those feelings in check: Your partner might be feeling very vulnerable, so it’s best not to react with shunning or shaming.
More than 80 percent of people with genital herpes are unaware of their infections.
By being open about his or her STD status, your partner has demonstrated a sense of responsibility toward your sexual health and a respect for your ability to make informed decisions. It’s possible that your partner was not given this same consideration by the person from whom he or she contracted herpes — some people with genital herpes choose not to disclose their status, while most don’t even know they carry the virus in the first place.
Herpes is more widespread than most of us realize. It can be caused by one of two strains of the herpes simplex virus: HSV-1 or HSV-2. While HSV-1 is more commonly associated with cold sores and HSV-2 is more commonly associated with genital herpes, either virus can infect the genital area. One estimate states that 1 out of 5 American females and 1 out of 9 American males between 14 to 49 years of age have a genital HSV-2 infection.
Now that you know your partner has herpes, you might have some questions. How easy is it to transmit genital herpes from one partner to another? What can you do to minimize your chances of catching the virus? And, while it is certainly stigmatized in our culture, is herpes something to fear? Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged abstinence, acyclovir, antiviral, cold sores, condom, condoms, discordant couples, drug, genital herpes, herpes, herpes outbreak, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, immunity, medication, outbreak, pharmaceutical, risk, safe sex, safer sex, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, STD, STI, suppressive therapy, symptoms, transmission, valacyclovir, viral shedding, virus	| 23 Replies
STD Awareness: Genital Herpes
Posted on May 5, 2014 by Anna C.
2
Herpes viruses inside a cell. Image: CDC
In the most recent Planned Parenthood annual report, a Tucson mother describes her daughter’s mysterious ailment, which stumped doctors at the hospital. Her symptoms included an itchy, tender genital area with painful lesions — but the physicians who “pored over her poor vulva” decided it was nothing to worry about and sent her home. A few days later, though, she called her mother in the middle of the night, sobbing, her condition now worse. “There were lesions, pustules, and the area was deep red,” her mother wrote. So this time, she called the experts: Planned Parenthood.
If you have symptoms, get checked out! An accurate diagnosis is more likely when symptoms are present.
The condition wasn’t nothing — it was genital herpes, and the mother praised Planned Parenthood for “spot[ting] something other pros missed.” Indeed, sexual and reproductive health is what we do — day in and day out! Whether you’re young or old, sexually active or celibate, insured or paying out of pocket or eligible for sliding-scale fees, we’re here to share our expertise with you.
The word “herpes” comes from an ancient Greek word that means “to creep,” after the “creeping” nature of skin lesions that might spread across areas of one’s body. We now know that the herpes simplex virus can “creep” up and down nerves, retreating to nerve cells to go dormant and returning back to the surface of the skin to cause symptoms or “shed” new virus particles. (Like a cat sheds fur, so too can people shed viruses.) Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged blister, cold sores, diagnosis, genital herpes, herpes, herpes outbreak, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, immunity, infection, lesion, oral herpes, oral sex, outbreak, Planned Parenthood, primary infection, recurrence, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, shedding, STD, STD Awareness, STI, symptom, transmission, virus	| 2 Replies
STD Awareness: How Can I Protect Myself if My Partner Has Herpes?
Posted on September 30, 2013 by Anna C.
54
Has your partner, or potential partner, recently informed you that he or she has been diagnosed with genital herpes? After thinking about it, did you decide to continue with the relationship, despite not being infected with the virus that causes genital herpes yourself? Congratulations — the two of you are now a “discordant couple,” which means that one of you has genital herpes and the other doesn’t. While you might have come to the conclusion that acquiring a herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection below the belt won’t be the end of the world, you still might want to stay discordant — and do everything you can to minimize chances of virus transmission.
Condoms, medication, and abstinence during outbreaks can reduce risk for herpes transmission.
You can read all about herpes elsewhere on this blog, but here’s a quick rundown: Genital herpes can be caused by one of two strains of the herpes simplex virus: HSV-1 or HSV-2. While HSV-1 is more commonly associated with cold sores and HSV-2 is more commonly associated with genital herpes, either virus can infect the genital area. One estimate states that 1 out of 6 Americans between 14 to 49 years of age has a genital HSV-2 infection. Since genital herpes infections can also be caused by HSV-1, the number of people with genital herpes is actually higher.
Barring total abstinence from all sexual activity, you won’t be able to protect yourself completely from acquiring HSV — but there are many steps that you and your partner can take to decrease risk. Studies on discordant couples show that viral transmission can be reduced with condoms, antiviral herpes medications, practicing abstinence when symptoms are present, and patient education.
Condoms
Latex condoms protect against most STDs, especially fluid-borne infections like HIV and gonorrhea. But condoms also provide some protection against STDs that are transmitted by skin-to-skin contact, including genital herpes. One large study found that condom usage was associated with lower rates of HSV-2 acquisition — the more frequently someone used condoms, the lower the risk. Unsurprisingly, risk was also associated with frequency of sex acts: People having vaginal or anal intercourse more than twice weekly were 77 percent more likely to acquire HSV-2 than people having less sex. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged abstinence, acyclovir, antiviral, cold sores, condom, condoms, discordant couples, drug, frequency, genital herpes, herpes, herpes outbreak, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, immune system, immunity, medication, monogamy, oral herpes, outbreak, pharmaceutical, risk, safe sex, safer sex, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, STD, STD Awareness, STI, suppressive therapy, symptoms, transmission, valacyclovir, viral shedding, virus	| 54 Replies
Can Oral Herpes Be Spread to Genitals?
Posted on April 1, 2013 by Anna C.
33
A herpes simplex lesion on the lower lip on the second day after onset. Image: CDC
Herpes simplex virus is mystifying, fascinating, and sneaky. Mystifying because we have yet to unravel all of its secrets; fascinating because when we do uncover one of its mysteries, we are amazed by the capabilities of such a tiny, microscopic object; and sneaky because it enters our bodies by stealth and conceals itself in our cells, taking us by surprise when it comes out of hiding and causes outbreaks of blisters and other lesions.
It can also be confusing. Herpes simplex virus actually comes in two flavors: HSV-1 and HSV-2. HSV-1 is associated more with oral herpes, which can cause “cold sores,” a type of blister that appears on the lips or face. HSV-2 is associated more with genital herpes, which can cause blisters and other lesions in the genital area. It used to be standard to describe HSV-1 as an “above-the-waist” infection and HSV-2 as a “below-the-belt” infection — but now many researchers are pointing out that it’s more appropriate to say that HSV-1 is both an orally and genitally transmitted infection while HSV-2 is a predominantly genitally transmitted infection. If HSV-1 enters the body in the genital area, it can cause a genital herpes infection — and likewise, if HSV-2 enters the body in the facial area, it can cause an oral herpes infection.
Using condoms and dental dams during oral sex reduces risk of herpes transmission.
What exactly is a cold sore, anyway? A cold sore, also known as a fever blister, is a cluster of blisters that can pop up around the lips or even in the mouth. Sometimes, cold sores are so painful that eating or drinking is difficult, and in extreme cases sufferers must be treated for dehydration. An especially severe infection could also cause high fever or swollen lymph nodes, and in young adults a first oral HSV-1 infection might be misdiagnosed as tonsillitis, possibly leading to unnecessary tonsillectomies. Most symptomatic first-time cold-sore outbreaks occur during childhood, and take about two or three weeks to clear up. Luckily, the first infection is almost always the most severe, and when the infection is reactivated it usually happens without symptoms.
Because both cold sores and genital herpes are caused by herpes simplex viruses, and because oral herpes is so common, many people are concerned that they might be more vulnerable to acquiring a genital herpes infection than they previously thought. They might have a lot of questions, and if they’ve sought answers to those questions, they might have heard a lot of conflicting answers. Let’s see what the scientific literature has to say.
Can I get genital herpes if someone with cold sores performs oral sex on me?
Because HSV-1, the virus responsible for most oral herpes infections, can also cause genital herpes, many people wonder if someone with cold sores can transmit the virus to someone else by performing oral sex, resulting in a genital herpes infection. Other people wonder if HSV-1 can be transmitted via oral contact with the anus, resulting in a herpes infection in the rectal area. The answer to these questions is: Yes! Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged anilingus, asymptomatic, cold sore, cold sores, condom, condoms, crying, cunnilingus, dehydration, dental dam, fellatio, fever blister, fever blisters, genital herpes, herpes, herpes febrilis, herpes labialis, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, immunity, oral herpes, oral sex, orolabial HSV infection, outbreak, polymerase chain reaction, reactivation, recrudescent herpes labialis, rimming, safe sex, safer sex, saliva, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, spit, STD, STI, symptoms, tear, tonsillectomy, trigeminal nerve ganglia, viral shedding, virus	| 33 Replies
STD Awareness: Oral Herpes
Posted on March 20, 2013 by Anna C.
5
A transmission electron micrograph reveals HSV particles. Image: Fred Murphy, CDC
One of the most common sexually transmitted diseases is herpes, which most people associate with “outbreaks” in the genitals. In actuality, most cases have no symptoms, and the majority of people with genital herpes don’t know they have it. Herpes simplex virus, which causes genital herpes, can also infect facial nerves around the mouth, and its “outbreaks” include blisters called cold sores.
A cold sore outbreak involves an “eruption” of blisters around the mouth, which slowly heal as the virus returns to dormancy. Most cold sores are caused by herpes simplex virus type 1, or HSV-1. Around 60 percent of Americans are infected with HSV-1, and most of these infections are oral, asymptomatic, and acquired in childhood through nonsexual contact. Despite how common this infection is, only 20 to 40 percent of us actually get cold sores — and an even smaller percentage experience cold sores more than once a year. The rest of us don’t get cold sores at all, even if we are infected with HSV-1. That’s one quirk about HSV — an infection is permanent and incurable, but most people never have symptoms!
The virus that causes oral herpes can also cause genital herpes.
Making matters more confusing, there’s a related virus called HSV-2, which most people associate with genital herpes. However, HSV-1 can also cause genital herpes, and anyone with an HSV-1 infection in the facial area has the potential to transmit the virus to a partner’s genitals while performing oral sex — whether or not cold sores are present. However, when HSV-1 strikes the genitals, the infection is usually milder, with fewer (if any) recurring outbreaks. Additionally, a previous HSV-1 infection in the facial area might make you more resistant to acquiring an HSV-1 infection in the genital area — but it doesn’t confer total immunity. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged cold sores, fever blisters, genital herpes, herpes, herpes febrilis, herpes labialis, herpes simplex virus, Herpesviridae, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human herpesvirus, human herpesvirus 1, human herpesvirus 2, oral herpes, orolabial HSV infection, outbreak, recrudescent herpes labialis, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted infection, STD, STD Awareness, STI, trigeminal nerve ganglia, virus	| 5 Replies
STD Awareness: “What Are the Symptoms of an STD?”
Posted on October 30, 2012 by Anna C.
5
“I was treated for chlamydia, but my girlfriend feels fine, so she doesn’t need to get tested.”
“The only time I don’t use condoms is for oral sex, and everything’s been OK ‘down there,’ so getting tested for sexually transmitted diseases would be pointless.”
It’s important to be able to recognize the symptoms of a sexually transmitted disease (STD). Being savvy about symptoms can push you to get tested right away if you notice that something is amiss. However, being symptom-free can lull you into a false sense of security, especially if you’ve engaged in sexual activities that could have exposed you to an infectious agent. The fact of the matter is that many people with STDs have no symptoms at all. As they say, “The most common symptom of an STD is … no symptom.” Let’s take a look at some common STDs.
The most common symptom of an STD is no symptom.
Bacterial Infections
Bacterial STDs are curable with antibiotics. They include chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis — all of which can be asymptomatic, and all of which can have severe complications when they are not treated in time.
Chlamydia: Around 3 million Americans are infected with chlamydia annually, and the infection is especially common among young people (less than 25 years of age). Chlamydia can infect the penis, vagina, cervix, anus, urethra, eye, or throat. You can be afflicted with a range of symptoms: pain or a burning feeling while urinating; vaginal, cervical, or penile discharge; swelling around the anus, testicles, or vagina; and more.
However, you’re much more likely not to experience any symptoms at all — most people with chlamydia are unaware they have it. Three out of four women with chlamydia have no symptoms, and half of men with chlamydia have no symptoms. Left untreated, chlamydia can become a serious health threat. Long-term complications might lead to fertility problems and arthritis. Continue reading →
Share this post:
Tweet
Email
Posted in Sexual Health	| Tagged acquired immune deficiency syndrome, AIDS, antibiotics, antiretrovirals, antiviral, asymptomatic, bacteria, bacterial, blisters, burning, cervical cancer, chlamydia, cold sores, discharge, do genital warts cause cancer?, fever blisters, flu, genital herpes, genital warts, glands, gonorrhea, herpes, herpes simplex virus, HIV, HPV, HSV, HSV-1, HSV-2, human immunodeficiency virus, human papillomavirus, lymph nodes, medication, no symptoms, oral herpes, pain, sexually transmitted disease, sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted infection, sexually transmitted infections, sore, STD, STD Awareness, STDs, STI, STIs, swelling, symptom, symptoms, syphilis, ulcer, viral, virus	| 5 Replies
Post navigation
← Older posts
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
Follow us on Twitter! Like us on Facebook! Subscribe to RSS! Receive PPAA updates!
Recent Posts
Reproductive Health-Care Providers Challenge Arizona Laws That Put Women’s Health at Risk
From HPV to Cancer to Dry Mouth
STD Awareness: Can HIV Be Cured Now?
STD Awareness: The Syphilis Outbreak’s Youngest Victims
Women Fighting for Everyone’s Health
Women Harnessing the Law
STD Awareness: Syphilis Treatment Through the Ages
Top Posts & Pages
STD Awareness: Will STDs Go Away on Their Own?
STD Awareness: Is Bacterial Vaginosis a Sexually Transmitted Disease?
Can Oral Herpes Be Spread to Genitals?
STD Awareness: How Can I Protect Myself if My Partner Has Herpes?
STD Awareness: Why Should You Care About Oral Gonorrhea?
My Partner Just Told Me They Have Herpes. I Don't. Now What?
STD Awareness: Asymptomatic Shedding of Herpes
STD Awareness: Which STDs Are Reportable?
Categories
Abortion (62)
Activism (32)
Arizona News (19)
Birth Control (79)
Book & Film Reviews (22)
Cancer (30)
Elections (182)
General Health (21)
History (92)
Legislative Watch (44)
LGBTQ (37)
Men's Health (21)
National News (27)
PPAA News (13)
Pregnancy & Parenthood (32)
Racial Justice (18)
Relationships (9)
Rundowns (121)
Sex Education (23)
Sexual Health (167)
Sexual Violence (14)
Spirituality (8)
Volunteers (17)
Archives
Archives Select Month April 2019 (3) March 2019 (3) February 2019 (4) January 2019 (4) December 2018 (4) November 2018 (4) October 2018 (8) September 2018 (8) August 2018 (8) July 2018 (7) June 2018 (4) May 2018 (4) April 2018 (6) March 2018 (7) February 2018 (10) January 2018 (6) December 2017 (6) November 2017 (4) October 2017 (7) September 2017 (6) August 2017 (9) July 2017 (7) June 2017 (8) May 2017 (8) April 2017 (6) March 2017 (7) February 2017 (6) January 2017 (8) December 2016 (6) November 2016 (5) October 2016 (13) September 2016 (9) August 2016 (15) July 2016 (13) June 2016 (6) May 2016 (5) April 2016 (5) March 2016 (5) February 2016 (6) January 2016 (6) December 2015 (5) November 2015 (6) October 2015 (5) September 2015 (4) August 2015 (8) July 2015 (4) June 2015 (7) May 2015 (7) April 2015 (6) March 2015 (9) February 2015 (7) January 2015 (8) December 2014 (10) November 2014 (8) October 2014 (36) September 2014 (11) August 2014 (18) July 2014 (18) June 2014 (9) May 2014 (7) April 2014 (8) March 2014 (8) February 2014 (8) January 2014 (5) December 2013 (7) November 2013 (7) October 2013 (8) September 2013 (10) August 2013 (4) July 2013 (5) June 2013 (7) May 2013 (6) April 2013 (10) March 2013 (10) February 2013 (12) January 2013 (8) December 2012 (7) November 2012 (7) October 2012 (20) September 2012 (18) August 2012 (9) July 2012 (16) June 2012 (7) May 2012 (9) April 2012 (7) March 2012 (13) February 2012 (10) January 2012 (8) December 2011 (2) November 2011 (1) October 2011 (3) September 2011 (3) August 2011 (3) July 2011 (1) June 2011 (8) May 2011 (7) April 2011 (8) March 2011 (8) February 2011 (12) January 2011 (12) December 2010 (6) November 2010 (5) October 2010 (18) September 2010 (9) August 2010 (5) February 2010 (1) November 2009 (1) August 2009 (2)
Links
Arizona List
Emily's List
Planned Parenthood Arizona
Planned Parenthood Federation of America
Find Us
Our bloggers cannot diagnose medical conditions or recommend treatment. See a licensed medical professional for diagnosis and treatment.
Please see this page for our Commenting Policy.
Proudly powered by WordPress
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.