Immunity Real or Fake Adverse Reactions to Vaccines - Adverse reactions to vaccines - Home
Immunity Real or Fake
Adverse Reactions to Vaccines
We also have a Facebook site
Home
More Articles/Links
Dr Wakefield & Dr Haley
FAQs & Detox
HPV vaccines/Vaccines in Pregnancy
Flu vaccine
More Info on Pharma/Autism
Dr Suzanne Humphries/Epigenetics
Dr Russell Blaylock MD/ Immunocytotoxicity
This site provides information about the adverse effects of vaccines. Many people want to make an informed choice whether to vaccinate their children or not. This site and its links can help to clarify some of the misunderstandings and myths about the safety and efficacy of vaccines. The differences between real lifelong immunity compared to short term vaccine induced high antibody levels are also explored.
The problem with many people is they tie their ego into certain beliefs and certain things. If you’re whole concept of self (ego) is tied into and depends on believing certain things. You are way too vulnerable. You cannot adapt. What if it’s wrong? What if someone told you a lie?
What if they are mistaken? What if the majority of people believe this lie or mistaken belief? Believing this lie or mistaken belief can make you feel too comfortable – too complacent. I believe what everyone else believes. I feel comfortable. I don’t have to do anything – end of story.
What happens if eventually it’s proved wrong? Your whole ego is devastated – ruined – that’s awful – we can’t cope – we fall apart.
We are not what we believe. We are far greater than that.
I am still intact - even after I am proved wrong. I am not destroyed - by being wrong about something.You really have to read History to understand the concept. The world is flat. We all believe it. So lets attack and shun people who say the world is round. They are liars and only we know the truth. Lets kill them - why don’t we? Then we will feel more comfortable. No more dissention. Now we can be happy. Problem solved.
Are we really right? Do we - and only we know the truth? Do we? Do we really? What proof have we got apart from what others tell us?
These others may be wrong! What if hundreds of people told you a lie or a mistaken belief – would that make it the truth?
People are very similar. They get some information and they believe it? Why not? - Because life is not that simple.
You have to use you God given creative and intuitive thinking.
Think!! - Does it make sense? Does it feel intuitively right? Do you think maybe there’s something wrong with what you are being told?
Do you feel intuitively that it doesn’t make sense? These are warning signs – don’t ignore them. We are programmed to evolve and survive and find the truth.That’s evolution - That is what evolution is all about.
That is what has brought us so far and will bring us so much further. As Humans, we evolve – knowledge evolves, otherwise it stagnates.
We improve – we learn - we evolve – we change – we grow and we seek the truth.
Always the truth - Nothing else is sufficient. Nothing else will bring us forward. Lies and deception will only hold us back. Keep us from moving forward. Keep us in the dark – keep us from evolution. As humans we hate being in the dark. We need to know the truth.
Like homing pigeons – we need to find home – the truth. We need to know – we need to progress.
To hell with your “oh so fragile individual egos” they are nothing compared to the Evolution of the species and finding the peace and satisfaction of the truth. If you cannot evolve and move with the times and seek the truth – you are a Dinosaur and you are extinct! – Get out of here! - Let our species move on without you. You can only hold us back for so long and then truth will out. That’s Evolution -You can’t stop it. It will move on with or without you.
​"First do no harm" - Hippocratic oath
Did Chinese scientists find autism’s missing puzzle piece?
​BY J.B. HANDLEY February 22, 2017
Scientists appear to be far closer to explaining the mechanisms of action within the body that cause autism. Most of the research that has created this understanding has been published in the last 36 months, and largely from international scientists in Canada, France, Israel, and China. Four clear, replicable, and related discoveries explaining how autism is triggered are forming an undeniably clear picture of autism’s causation, and possibly ways to alleviate the symptoms, too.
Dead Doctors Research Expanded: Natural Cures Seen for Autism and Cancer
When Dr. Jeff Bradstreet unexpectedly and tragically died in the spring of 2015, many of us wondered what would happen to the research he was doing with GcMAF, Goleic, and Bravo yogurt, which he was using to help children with autism. To my great pleasure, I am pleased to report that the research has continued and treatment options have been expanded. We are now seeing even more powerful results for the treatment of autism, cancer, chronic Lyme, chronic fatigue syndrome, and various neurodegenerative diseases.
​
Dr Mercola interviews Dr Tomljenovic about Vaccine Adjuvants
Dr Andrew Wakefield talks about the link between MMR vaccine and Autism. He also talks about his knowledge of the CDC whistleblower Dr William Thompson - who admitted destroying documents confirming the link between the MMR and Autism and the ongoing corruption in the CDC.
What is GcMAF and why is it important to your health.
What research has been done?
What is GcMAF?
GcMAF is a protein made by all healthy people.
Why do some people no longer make GcMAF?
Cancers and Viruses send out an enzyme called Nagalase that neutralises the bodies ability to make GcMAF. (without GcMAF our immune system goes to sleep)
Take a Nagalase test here
gcmaf.se
Is it worth taking a nagalase test? If you have a disease like cancer or autism, you know you have high nagalase.
The problem with the test is you need to find a local laboratory who will withdraw your blood into a syringe, spin it down in a centrifuge to extract the yellow serum, and pack the serum to keep it cool for dispatch.
In the US - Adverse Reactions should be reported to VAERS the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System.
Click here: VAERS
National Vaccine Information Center - Read the MedAlerts Blog
This site analyses the trends of the VAERS data and provides interesting insight into adverse reaction statistics.
Click here: www.medalerts.org
CDC whistleblower admits fraudulent study covered up link between MMR Vaccine and Autism
Fraud at the CDC uncovered 340% increase in the risk of Autism hidden from the public CNN ireport
CDC Whistleblower on Thimerosal in pregnant women
CDC Autism/Vaccine coverup extends to media and journals.
Recovery from Autism
A heartwarming account of a child's recovery from Autism
Natural Immunity Vs. Synthetic Immunity by Keith Wassung
In this video Keith Wassung examines the history of
vaccination. The new discoveries about the workings of the Immune System and the difference between Natural Immunity and Synthetic Immunity from vaccines.
FDA study helps provide an understanding of rising rates of whooping cough and response to vaccination
"This research suggests that although individuals immunized with an acellular pertussis vaccine may be protected from disease, they may still become infected with the bacteria without always getting sick and are able to spread infection to others, including young infants who are susceptible to pertussis disease".
Methodological Issues and Evidence of Malfeasance in Research Purporting to Show Thimerosal in Vaccines Is Safe.
There are over 165 studies that have focused on Thimerosal, an organic-mercury (Hg) based compound, used as a preservative in many childhood vaccines, and found it to be harmful.
Of these, 16 were conducted to specifically examine the effects of Thimerosal on human infants or children with reported outcomes of death; acrodynia; poisoning; allergic reaction; malformations; auto-immune reaction; Well’s syndrome; developmental delay; and neurodevelopmental disorders, including tics, speech delay, language delay, attention deficit disorder, and autism.
In contrast, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states that Thimerosal is safe and there is “no relationship between Thimerosal containing vaccines and autism rates in children.” This is puzzling because, in a study conducted directly by CDC epidemiologists, a 7.6-fold increased risk of autism
from exposure to Thimerosal during infancy was found.
Immunised People getting Whooping Cough - California outbreak - 85% Vaccinated. Same old solution - just buy more of the failing product. 6th dose is now recommended for everyone and their granny.
When Immunisation Fails - The Whooping Cough Epidemic
It happened in 2010 too - if you remember worst outbreak for years. The whooping cough vaccine is a failure and should be stopped. The vaccine itself is helping to spread the disease.
The AutismOne and Generation Rescue 2013 Congressional Panel
"The chronicle of mans progress is the history of authority refuted" ~ Dr. Bernard Rimland, Autism Research Institute.
Vaccines: Are They Safe and Effective? Dr Boyd Haley
Thimerosal exposure and the role of Sulfation Chemistry and Thiol availability in Autism - International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurological disorder in which a significant number of the children experience a developmental regression characterized by a loss of previously acquired skills and abilities. Typically reported are losses of verbal, nonverbal, and social abilities. Several recent studies suggest that children diagnosed with an ASD have abnormal sulfation chemistry, limited thiol availability, and decreased glutathione (GSH) reserve capacity, resulting in a compromised oxidation/reduction (redox) and detoxification capacity. Research indicates that the availability of thiols, particularly GSH, can influence the effects of thimerosal (TM) and other mercury (Hg) compounds
Vaccines cause more Autism than the CDC admits - Dr Brian Hooker PhD.
Putting Measles into Perspective - Vactruth.org
Before the MMR vaccine, measles was at epidemic proportions. Before the vaccine, the US had 3-4 million cases of measles! That’s insane! Thank goodness for vaccines. -The end.
Aw, now you didn’t think I’d let vaccines get off THAT easy did you?
Prior to the vaccine, 3-4 million cases of measles occured in the United States each year. <—True.
Also true, however, is that of those 3-4 million cases, only about 450 people died each year from it in the years before the vaccine.
That still seems like a lot? Instead of running out to make sure your vaccinations are up to date, how about a shot of perspective instead?
In the screen shot below, I have figured out the percentage of people who died from measles of all of the measles cases back then. 0.015%. Suddenly, measles seems a little less scary doesn’t it? The CDC claims that around 1 or 2 out of a thousand people who get measles will die from measles. Their math doesn’t add up though. I guess they use the term “about” lightly.
Vaccines did not save us - 2 centuries of official Statistics by Child Health Safety
This is the data the drug industry do not want you to see. Here 2 centuries of UK, USA and Australian official death statistics show conclusively and scientifically modern medicine is not responsible for and played little part in substantially improved life expectancy and survival from disease in western economies.
Dr Deisher PhD testifies on the connection between Vaccines and Autism. These Videos are a 4 part series.
She talks about the contamination of vaccines by human foetal cells and viruses. The dangers that foreign human DNA can be inserted into children's genes by the contaminants in the vaccines. Causing cancer - autoimmune disease and neurological problems. The connection between the introduction in 1988 of the human cells into vaccines and the immediate rise in Autism after their introduction.
Speak up and Stay Alive Patient Safety Barbara Loe Fisher (National Vaccine Information Centre)
Mary Tocco on Vaccines
ASIA (autoimmune inflammatory syndrome induced by adjuvants) - Allergies - including Peanut Allergy - Mercury - Aluminium - Polysorbate 80 and many other problems discussed by Mary Tocco.
W.H.O ensures Third World Child Vaccine Deaths will not be recorded. New weakened W.H.O criteria for child vaccine deaths. by Child Health Safey
Child deaths from vaccines in developing countries will be falsely recorded as not caused by the vaccine under a new W.H.O. watered down scheme for assessing “Adverse Events Following Immunisation” [AEFIs].
A child death from a vaccine will be recorded as ‘Not an AEFI’:
Thimerosal and Autism Timeline by Shot of Truth.Org
Amazing timeline and historic links to important information which has been ignored. Information needed in order to make the right decision about vaccines.
Why is the CDC and FDA still recommending the Failed Whooping Cough Vaccine?
by Health Impact News
2013 was the year the CDC and FDA finally admitted there were problems with the pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine.
When cases of whooping cough spiked in 2012, the media and medical community was quick to rush in and blame unvaccinated children. The data, however, could not support that claim.
In 2013, there were two major research papers published documenting the failure of the pertussis vaccine. I don’t believe the first one, published in early 2013, received any mainstream media exposure at all, while the second one, later in the year, was back-page news. However, both of these studies should have been headline stories.
Vaccines and Childhood Illnesses: Beyond Thimerosal
Dr David Ayoub MD talks about the well known fact that Aluminium toxicity is worse than Thimerosal. Aluminium has partly replaced Mercury in some vaccines.
14 Questions to the CDC on Mercury in Vaccines
The following are a series of questions put to the CDC as part of a report on the Mercury, Vaccines, Autism issue. These are the questions for which no response was received from the CDC.
The Rockefellers,The FDA and the Cancer Industry:
Study History and you will understand where you are in the puzzle!! Fascinating but get your objective skills going otherwise you may be in trouble.
Vaccine/Autism - Conflicts of Interest
Dr Paul Offit - He has a lot of conflicts of interest. DOH!!!
Dr Bernadine Healey - Dont dismiss Vaccine/Autism link
"I think public health officials have been too quick to dismiss the hypothesis as 'irrational,' without sufficient studies of causation... without studying the population that got sick," Dr. Healy told Attkisson. "I have not seen major studies that focus on 300 kids who got autistic symptoms within a period of a few weeks of the vaccines."
SafeMinds - New Disclosure on Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD)
The U.S. Centers for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC) recently revealed, as a result of oversight requests by Congress, a research paper written by Thomas Verstraeten, MD titled “Increased risk of developmental neurologic impairment after high exposure to Thimerosal-containing vaccines in the first month of life" that documents statistically significant adverse health outcomes associated with exposure to the mercury-based preservative thimerosal. The announcement of yet another thimerosal paper that was written by CDC officials, but not publicly made available until now, is sending ripples throughout the autism community and elsewhere.
Aluminium in the Central Nervous System CNS: toxicity in humans and animals and vaccine adjuvants and Autoimmunity
A new study in 2013 - Pubmed
We have examined the neurotoxicity of aluminum in humans and animals under various conditions, following different routes of administration, and provide an overview of the various associated disease states. The literature demonstrates clearly negative impacts of aluminum on the nervous system across the age span. In adults, aluminum exposure can lead to apparently age-related neurological deficits resembling Alzheimer's and has been linked to this disease and to the Guamanian variant, ALS-PDC. Similar outcomes have been found in animal models. In addition, injection of aluminum adjuvants in an attempt to model Gulf War syndrome and associated neurological deficits leads to an ALS phenotype in young male mice. In young children, a highly significant correlation exists between the number of pediatric aluminum-adjuvanted vaccines administered and the rate of autism spectrum disorders. Many of the features of aluminum-induced neurotoxicity may arise, in part, from autoimmune reactions, as part of the ASIA syndrome.
Empirical Data Confirm Autism Symptoms Related to Aluminium and Acetaminophen Exposure - Study 2012
Bill Gates`Polio Vaccine Campaign Eradicates Children not Polio
In the depths of cyberspace lurks a press release written by the CDC confirming that OPV, or oral polio vaccination, given to millions of children throughout the developing world, is causing them to develop vaccine-induced polio. Instead of banning the vaccination, as one would expect, the CDC has decided in its wisdom that the best way to tackle the problem is to maintain a high rate of vaccination in all countries!
Yes, that is correct. The CDC recommends maintaining a high rate of vaccination, vaccinating as many children as possible with a vaccine that causes polio.
Polio Programme: Let us declare Victory and move on
It was hoped that following polio eradication, immunisation could be stopped. However the synthesis of polio virus in 2002, made eradication impossible. It is argued that getting poor countries to expend their scarce resources on an impossible dream over the last 10 years was unethical.
Furthermore, while India has been polio-free for a year, there has been a huge increase in non-polio acute flaccid paralysis (NPAFP). In 2011, there were an extra 47,500 new cases of NPAFP. Clinically indistinguishable from polio paralysis but twice as deadly, the incidence of NPAFP was directly proportional to doses of oral polio received. Though this data was collected within the polio surveillance system, it was not investigated. The principle of primum-non-nocere was violated.
The authors suggest that the huge bill of US$ 8 billion spent on the programme, is a small sum to pay if the world learns to be wary of such vertical programmes in the future.
New Study suggests why Whooping Cough vaccines spread the disease to others
ATLANTA — A government study offers a new theory on why the whooping cough vaccine doesn't seem to be working as well as expected.
The research suggests that while the vaccine may keep people from getting sick, it doesn't prevent them from spreading whooping cough — also known as pertussis — to others.
No Polio in the Phillipines since 1993 but Mass polio vaccination program targeted for 500,000 Typhoon victims under age 5
“It is virtually unprecedented that within two and a half weeks of a disaster of this scale, with this level of devastation and these logistical challenges, that a mass vaccination campaign is already rolling out,” reported Dr Julie Hall, WHO representative in the Philippines.
The children are being vaccinated for measles and polio, in spite of the fact that measles rates are very low and declining in the Philippines, and that there has not been a single case of polio in the Philippines since 1993.
VACCINATIONS: MEDICAL RESEARCH ON SIDS AND EPIDEMICS
Viera Scheibner is a retired principal research scientist with a doctorate in natural sciences. During her distinguished career, she has published three books and 90 scientific papers in prestigious scientific journals. Since the mid-80's, she has done extensive research into vaccines and vaccinations. Her first research was in the area of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). She wasn't even studying vaccinations, but she stumbled onto a relationship between SIDS and vaccinations that lead to a very deep study into vaccination literature in medical journals. In 1983, she published her book on the results of her research Vaccination: The Medical Assault on the Immune System. She often provides expert reports for court cases involving immunizations and vaccine-damaged individuals throughout the world.
Pharmaceutical Corporate corruption who cares?
Evidence BigPharma owns the US government. Business as usual after lies and corruption proved beyond a shadow of a doubt. BigPharma too big to nail. Keep taking the tablets.
Dr Sherri Tenpenny on safety, efficacy and dangers of vaccines.
Do antibodies actually make you immune? She talks about measles, mumps, rubella, chickenpox, tetanus, Hep B and Flu and how high levels of antibodies may not stop you getting the disease.
The Canary party.org
Various people from all walks of life talk about their experiences with vaccines. Newscaster says media should be the voice of the people but they are not interested in the vaccine injured stories. SIDS deaths and other deaths after vaccines. Autism,seizures,GI pain,altered brain function,neurodevelopment disorders,absent seizures. No cumulative testing of vaccines. Vaccine court payouts, Fundamental human rights issue to choose. Vaccines deplete levels of antioxidants such as Glutathione leaving the body prone to systemic damage. The benefits versus the risks need to be balanced.
Scientific literature links connected to Autism
Autism relevant Vaccine Dangers in Scientific Literature.
Here are some links to Scientific research papers examining Autism. Links provided by the Canary Party
Film about children damaged by vaccines
Mothers tell their stories about symptoms after vaccination. Describing the encephalitic cry which indicates brain damage. Autism and the MMR. Numbers of vaccines increasing every year. Increases in long term disability and chronic diseases.
The Rising Tide of Autism
Why All the measles outbreaks?
Links between MMR and Autism
14 Studies
Disease, Vaccinations and lies
Concern about the HPV vaccine effectiveness
Childhood rates of Autism have increased by 78% over the past decade
You are completely free to carry out whatever research you want, so long as you come to these conclusions
Merck scientists admit that their Mumps research was fraudulent
6 Fake scientific journals
Undue industry influences that distort healthcare research, strategy, expenditure and practice: a review - To serve its interests, the industry masterfully influences evidence base production, evidence synthesis, understanding of harms issues, cost-effectiveness evaluations, clinical practice guidelines and healthcare professional education and also exerts direct influences on professional decisions and health consumers. There is an urgent need for regulation and other action towards redefining the mission of medicine towards a more objective and patient-, population- and society-benefit direction that is free from conflict of interests.
Don't believe Bad History
Vaccines did not save us from diseases - it was health measures such as sanitation and good nutrition that resulted in tremendous decreases in disease
Mumps outbreaks in highly Vaccinated populations - 97% vaccinated
Measles and mumps are making a huge comeback in the United States, but doctors and journalists all make the same critical error in understanding why. They blame "parents who don't vaccinate their kids" as the cause, but the real cause -- as revealed by whistleblowing scientists working for top vaccine manufacturers -- is that measles and mumps vaccines are designed to fail from the start.
Interview with Dr Lawrence Palevsky by Dr. Joseph Mercola
Greater incidences of Whooping cough in vaccinated populations
Re-emergence of Pertussis in the Highly Vaccinated Population of the Netherlands: Observations on Surveillance Data
Pertussis (whooping cough vaccine) causes colonisation of whooping cough bacteria -An acellular whooping cough vaccine actually enhances the colonization of Bordetella parapertussis in mice; pointing towards a rise in B. parapertussis incidence resulting from acellular vaccination, which may have contributed to the observed increase in whooping cough over the last decade.
How viral infection disrupts neural development in offspring increasing risk of Autism : this research paper provides a model of how vaccines can induce autism
Case files from GlaxoSmith-Kline on infant deaths - coverups and denial of responsiblity for vaccine deaths. SIDS blamed for deaths
Whooping cough outbreak linked to vaccinated children: San Rafael - An investigation by California doctors has revealed that the state's latest outbreak of whooping cough centered around children who had already received the whooping cough vaccine, Reuters reports.
The study, led by infectious disease specialist Dr. David Witt, was initiated after an unusually large number of whooping cough cases were admitted to Kaiser Permanente Hospital in San Rafael, California in 2010.
After examining the records of juvenile whooping cough patients over an 8-month period, the doctors discovered that 81 percent of patients had received the full series of whooping cough shots, and 11 percent had received only some of the shots. The remaining 8 percent had not received any immunizations for whooping cough.
"What was very surprising was the majority of cases were in fully vaccinated children," Witt said. "That's what started catching our attention."
After further analysis, Witt and his team surmised that the effectiveness of the vaccine wears off after several years, creating the need for additional inoculations.
Read more: http://digitaljournal.com/article/323187#ixzz2hukY9LIQ
Deadly Vaccines by Dr Garth Nicolson: microbiologist
Nobel prize winning Microbiologist Dr Garth Nicolson explains how the contamination of vaccines with Mycoplasmas and viruses cause numerous chronic diseases. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Multiple sclerosis, Autism and Autism Spectrum disorders. Other Neurodegenerative diseases. ADD and ADHD. Rheumatoid Arthritis. Vaccines are not tested for Mycoplasma contamination.
Dr Garth Nicolson was one of the authors of the famous paper the Fluid Mosaic Model of cell membranes.
Vaccines a peek beneath the hood
by International Medical council on Vaccination
Medical history books, almost uniformly extol the virtues of vaccination. Upon reading these books, one is left with the impression that during the 1800s and into the 1900s, there were rampant plagues that killed countless scores of people and that, because of vaccines, this is no longer the case. This is certainly what we believed growing up, and most people we talk to have a similar impression. It generally permeates society as an established fact.
Sudden infant deaths following a Hexavalent vaccine - pubmed
We examined a large number of sudden infant death syndrome victims in order to point out a possible causal relationship between a previous hexavalent vaccination and the sudden infant death. We selected 110 cases submitted to in-depth histological examination of the autonomic nervous system and provided with detailed clinical and environmental information. In 13 cases (11.8%) the death occurred in temporal association with administration of the hexavalent vaccine (from 1 to 7 days). In none of these victims congenital developmental alterations of the main nervous structures regulating the vital functions were observed. Only the hypoplasia of the arcuate nucleus was present in 5 cases. In one case in particular an acquired hyperacute encephalitis of the tractus solitarii nucleus was diagnosed in the brainstem. This study does not prove a causal relationship between the hexavalent vaccination and SIDS. However, we hypothesize that vaccine components could have a direct role in sparking off a lethal outcome in vulnerable babies. In conclusion, we sustain the need that deaths occurring in a short space of time after hexavalent vaccination are appropriately investigated and submitted to a post-mortem examination particularly of the autonomic nervous system by an expert pathologist to objectively evaluate the
possible causative role of the vaccine in SIDS.
Doctors who question the safety and efficacy of vaccines are Neutralised by the Pharmaceutical companies.
Court case documents show Pharmaceutical company Mercks policy for dissenting doctors.
"Destroy them where they live"
Court evidence now available on-line at the University of California library shows drug giant Merck systematically targetted “hit-lists” of doctors to discredit, neutralise
or destroy critics of the safety and effectiveness of Merck’s drugs.
​Daily Mail - Aluminium in Brains linked to Autism -
​Prof Christopher Exley
​
'Perhaps we now have the link between vaccination and autism': Professor reveals aluminium in jabs may cause sufferers to have up 10 times more of the metal in their brains than is safe
Aluminium crosses the membrane that separates the brain from blood
The metal accumulates in cells that maintain a constant internal environment
Autism sufferers may have genetic changes that cause them to hold aluminium
Disgraced doctor Andrew Wakefield linked autism to the MMR vaccine in 1995
By Professor Chris Exley For The Hippocratic Post
Study finds record levels of Aluminium in Autistic Childrens Brains - Vaxxter
Estimated Prevalence of Children with diagnosed Developmental disabilities in the US - 2014 to 2016 - data from - CDC - Gov.org
Key fndings: Data from the National Health Interview Survey
During 2014–2016, the prevalence of children aged 3–17 years who had ever been diagnosed with a developmental disability increased from 5.76% to 6.99%.
Neil Z Miller - The U.S Department of Health and Human Services and CDC have released the latest numbers on autism rates in the United States. 1 in 35 children (8-12 years of age) have autism. 1 in 28 boys (3-17 years of age) have autism. More than 6% of our children have a developmental disability (1 in 16). More than 8% of our boys have a developmental disability (1 in 12). These are unsustainable rates of autism and developmental disability!
Dirty vaccines: New study Reveals Prevalence of Contaminants
Every Human Vaccine Tested Was Contaminated by Unsafe Levels of Metals and Debris Linked to Cancer and Autoimmune Disease, New Study Reports
Researchers examining 44 samples of 30 different vaccines found dangerous contaminants, including red blood cells in one vaccine and metal toxicants in every single sample tested – except in one animal vaccine.
Hepatitis B Vaccine ‘Significantly Increased’ IL-6, A Bio-Marker for Autism’: Mainstream Media Silence
Sun Yat-sen University’s (a Top 10 university in China) Dr. Zhibin Yao is not a household name in the American autism community, but perhaps he should be. Not only is he American-educated (University of Pittsburgh) and the author of 33 peer-reviewed studies, but he’s also the lead author of two of the most important biological studies ever done analyzing how, exactly, a vaccine can cause autism.
Nagalase a stealth bomber which destroys your Immune system
Information about Dr Bradstreets work on GcMAF (macrophage activating factor) and Nagalase.
Nagalase protein enzyme may be introduced via vaccination.
Nagalase prevents Vit D binding to Gc protein to make GcMAF - if binding doesn't happen the whole immune system is compromised and cannot fight against cancer cells and other diseases. Cytokine storms ensue and destroy the body further. Unresolved viruses and bacterial infections can persist in the body without enough GcMAF (macrophage activating factor) to destroy them.
In the UK - Adverse Reactions should be reported using the yellow card system at MHRA.Gov.uk.
Click here: Yellow Card
Vaccine Shedding - Secondary Transmission
The short and Sweet about live vaccine shedding
Research finds HPV DNA in Gardasil Vaccines
Detection of human papilloma virus DNA fragments found in Gardasil vaccines.
Attacking Ourselves: Top doctors reveal that vaccines turn our immune system against us.
No one would accuse Yehuda Shoenfeld of being a quack. The Israeli clinician has spent more than three decades studying the human immune system and is at the pinnacle of his profession. You might say he is more foundation than fringe in his specialty; he wrote the textbooks. The Mosaic of Autoimmunity, Autoantibodies, Diagnostic Criteria in Autoimmune Diseases, Infection and Autoimmunity, Cancer and Autoimmunity – the list is 25 titles long and some of them are cornerstones of clinical practice. Hardly surprising that Shoenfeld has been called the "Godfather of Autoimmunology" – the study of the immune system turned on itself in a wide array of diseases from type 1 diabetes to ulcerative colitis and multiple sclerosis.
MMR vaccines actually spread Measles and cause permanent Immune damage.
Vaccines destroy thymus immune cells, permanently depleting vaccinated individuals of up to 70% of their normal immune function
Aluminium-induced Entropy in Biological systems: implications for Neurological disease.
Over the last 200 years, mining, smelting, and refining of aluminum (Al) in various forms have increasingly exposed living species to this naturally abundant metal. Because of its prevalence in the earth's crust, prior to its recent uses it was regarded as inert and therefore harmless. However, Al is invariably toxic to living systems and has no known beneficial role in any biological systems. Humans are increasingly exposed to Al from food, water, medicinals, vaccines, and cosmetics, as well as from industrial occupational exposure. Al disrupts biological self-ordering, energy transduction, and signaling systems, thus increasing biosemiotic entropy.
Do Aluminium Adjuvants contribute to the rising prevalence of Autism?
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are serious multisystem developmental disorders and an urgent global public health concern. Dysfunctional immunity and impaired brain function are core deficits in ASD. Aluminum (Al), the most commonly used vaccine adjuvant, is a demonstrated neurotoxin and a strong immune stimulator.
An Open Letter to Tom Insel, Director of the Interagency Autism Co-ordinating Committee.
New Research shows the connections between Sulphate, sleep and sunlight - The Destructive effects of heavy metals and Glyphosate and how it is connected to Autism
Stephanie Seneff is one of the all-too-rare scientists who is trying to ask the questions and connect the dots. Dr. Seneff is a senior research scientist at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory with an illustrious career and lengthy publication record.
Flu shots for 6 month olds and pregnant women - A shot of Truth
Read correspondence between CDC and their partners the Pharmaceutical companies.
New Research from Caltech:Probiotic Therapy Alleviates Autism-like Behaviours in Mice.
Using the co-occurrence of brain and gut problems in ASD as their guide, researchers at the California Institute Technology (Caltech) are investigating a potentially transformative new therapy for autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders.
The Autism one and Generation Rescue congressional Panel 2013
by Autismone.com
This video shows some of the testimony of CDC employees and concerned research scientists and doctors.
Suppression by Thimerosal of Ex-vivo CD4 T cell response to Influenza vaccine and induction of apoptosis in primary memory T cells - new study published by Plos one.
How to cure Autism and the Timebomb of Mercury Poisoning
Autism strikes 2% of all U.S. children, and this rate is rapidly rising. Members of the medical establishment maintain that they cannot ascertain the cure, and claim to not know the cause. The only thing they claim to know with certainty is that vaccinations cannot be the culprit. Vaccines are categorically exempt from all institutional criticisms, and they are paraded as an unquestionable "miracle of modern science". Although the Centers For Disease Control found that approximately half of the physicians refuse to take routine vaccinations themselves, due to safety and efficacy reasons.
Vaccinations cause Chronic Immune System Dysregulation
Confidential - Thimerosal VSD study phase 1
This Vaccine Safety datalink study shows dangerous effects of Thimerosal on the babies and children.
"as for the exposure evaluated at 3 months of age, we found increasing risks of neurological developmental disorders with increasing cumulative exposure to Thimerosal".
A two-phase study evaluating the relationship between Thimerosal-containing vaccine administration and the risk for an autism spectrum disorder diagnosis in the United States
In phase I, it was observed that there was a significantly increased risk ratio for the incidence of ASD reported following the Thimerosal-containing DTaP vaccine in comparison to the Thimerosal-free DTaP vaccine. In phase II, it was observed that cases diagnosed with an ASD were significantly more likely than controls to receive increased organic-Hg from Thimerosal-containing hepatitis B vaccine administered within the first, second, and sixth month of life.
SWINE FLU SCAM - This is the pattern now for all vaccination campaigns.
Former Science Chief:
MMR fears coming true
A former Government medical officer responsible for deciding whether medicines are safe has accused the Government of "utterly inexplicable complacency" over the MMR triple vaccine for children.
Dr Peter Fletcher, who was Chief Scientific Officer at the Department of Health, said if it is proven that the jab causes autism, "the refusal by governments to evaluate the risks properly will make this one of the greatest scandals in medical history".
He added that after agreeing to be an expert witness on drug-safety trials for parents' lawyers, he had received and studied thousands of documents relating to the case which he believed the public had a right to see.
He said he has seen a "steady accumulation of evidence" from scientists worldwide that the measles, mumps and rubella jab is causing brain damage in certain children".
A Comprehensive Review of Mercury provoked Autism - Pubmed
Emerging evidence supports the theory that some autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) may result from a combination of genetic/biochemical susceptibility, specifically a reduced ability to excrete mercury (Hg), and exposure to Hg at critical developmental periods.
Blinded by the light: The perfect storm how the increase in pertussis vaccine usage is causing an epidemic
If you live in the United States then you and your children most likely have had at least one pertussis (DTP, DTaP, Tdap) vaccination – fair to say, that you’ve had multiple injections over your lifetime…and you are urged to continue to get them.
According to the CDC, despite the high vaccination rates, the number of reported cases of pertussis has increased steadily since the 1980s.
Curious enough, we are experiencing the highest vaccination rates against pertussis ever recorded in the US.
Increased risk of Developmental Neurologic impairment after high exposure to Thimerosal-containing vaccine in first month of life -
From Mercury free drugs organisation
This document is a CDC Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) annual conference abstract submission for the EIS conference in April 2000.
It was discovered in Aug 2013 in a CDC response to a Congressional request by an office in the US House of Representatives.
The Abstract submission is entitled "Increased risk of developmental neurologic impairment after high exposure to Thimerosal containing vaccine in first month of life.
This document shows that the CDC knew that mercury in vaccines was linked to neurological damage in babies.
7 Most Disgusting ingredients used in Vaccines: by Vactruth
Parents have the right to understand what is being put into their child’s body. The production of vaccines uses many disgusting ingredients. Additionally, the components used during the manufacturing process may violate your personal, religious, or ethical beliefs.
Lastly, remember that whatever colorful language is used by the scientific community (using such words as purified), using such substances can come with an enormous cost.
As you read this list, understand cell lines and vaccines do become contaminated. This is often hidden under the term “adventitious agents.”
If Publicised this study would be a vaccination schedule Bombshell
“Systemic autoimmunity appears to be the inevitable consequence of over-stimulating the host’s immune ‘system’ by repeated immunization with antigen, to the levels that surpass system’s self-organize criticality.”
Vaccinations inevitably cause Immune disease
Autoimmune diseases are a modern plague, causing untold suffering and early, painful death. This study clearly documents that vaccinations are a primary cause.
Deadly 5 in 1 vaccine kills at least 8 infants
In a press release issued on November 12, 2013, the human rights organization Peoples Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) stated that between September and October 2013, eight infants had died and many more had been seriously injured after they had received the pentavalent (5-in-1) vaccination.
PUDR reported that the pentavalent vaccine, given to infants to protect them from diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), tetanus, pneumonia-meningitis (Hib) and hepatitis B, had been introduced to Jammu and Kashmir, in India, as part of the Universal Immunization Program (UIP) in February 2013.
Sharjah boy conquers Autism with new Therapy
A four-year-old boy from Sharjah has become the first child in the UAE
to recover from autism — a developmental disability believed to be lifelong.
The news brings hope to the one in 50 children who are estimated to have autism worldwide, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is part of the US Department of Health and Human Services. The boy, who was diagnosed with non-verbal autism two years ago, has now started mainstream school and has even been told by doctors that he has a high IQ.
The four-year-old’s parents, who requested GN Focus to keep his name confidential, say: "When he was 18 months old he slipped into another world. He would cry all night and eventually lost all eye contact with us — it was like he became somebody else’s child. But we have him back and we want to thank everybody who helped save our son."
The couple took two years of research and trips overseas to find a cure. Then last November, they read about a human protein called Gc-protein-derived Macrophage Activating Factor (GcMAF).
GcMAF has shown dramatic results on a range of viral and neurological conditions including cancer and autism. It exists in all healthy humans — its work includes kick-starting macrophages in the immune system to fight disease. But viruses and malignant cells such as cancer send out an enzyme called nagalase, which blocks the production of GcMAF and puts macrophages to sleep.
Official Secrets UK documents show 30 years of coverups: the vaccine Hoax. Vaccine failures and known dangers of vaccines were covered up by the very people who should be protecting public health
Science versus Science fiction by Dr Neil Z Miller: a must read for all parents who want to make an informed choice. The research facts opposed to the research fiction
Its NO Vaccident : how genetic predispositions play a part in whether a child will have more dangerous side effects from vaccination. For example the MTHFR gene can prevent a child being able to deal with heavy metals and toxins. They may not be able to expell them from the body. How One size vaccine schedules do not fit all.
Single dose vaccine and multiple dose vaccines cause increased adverse events in infants
Abnormal elevation of CRP level occurred in 85% of infants administered multiple vaccines and up to 70% of those given a single vaccine. Overall, 16% of infants had vaccine-associated cardiorespiratory events within 48 hours postimmunization.
Positive association with Autism and Vaccinations - A Positive Association found between Autism Prevalence and Childhood
Vaccination uptake across the U.S. Population
Vaccine Resistance Movement:
Special Report: Dr Tetyana Obukhanych on measles
Interview with Dr Tetyana Obukhanych about the true meaning of immunity
As an immunologist, I have a concern that the practice of manufacturing vaccines using yeast, egg, animal, or even human fetal cells implies that vaccines by necessity include some small amount of protein or other products from these cells or media, in which these cells are being cultured. I would really want to know whether and how well vaccine manufacturers test their final vaccine products for such unspecified vaccine “ingredients” and how much contamination they discover.
The reason I am concerned about such contamination is because I believe that the exposure to yeast, egg, animal, or human proteins in the context of immunogenic (antibody producing) stimuli has the potential to result in sensitization to these proteins or even to break human immunologic tolerance to “self.” The latter is especially relevant to infants, since their immune system is only starting to make the distinction between “self” and “foreign.” Setting this distinction the wrong way from the start, in my view, is likely to pave the road to allergic or autoimmune manifestations.
Dr Mercola interviews Dr Larry Palesvsky on safety and efficacy of vaccines
Rates of diseases fell long before vaccines were introduced. Diphtheria, Tetanus, Polio, measles, mumps, rubella, chickenpox and Smallpox were all decreasing rapidly because of health measures such as improved nutrition and sanitation.
NVIC - National Vaccination Information center
The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is a national charitable, non-profit educational organization founded in 1982. NVIC launched the vaccine safety and informed consent movement in America in the early 1980's and is the oldest and largest consumer led organization advocating for the institution of vaccine safety and informed consent protections in the public health system.
Swine Flu Scam -
This is the pattern now for all Vaccination Campaigns. We fell for it and we didn't complain - it worked! We get what we deserve.
Merck Vaccine expert talks about contamination of polio vaccines
Dr Maurice Hilleman talks about vaccine contamination with other viruses. Difficulty of producing contaminant free vaccines. DNA and RNA contamination of vaccines.Vaccines for mumps, rubella and measles. Wild viruses and the SV40 cancer causing virus in the polio vaccines.Ingredients of vaccines Formaldehyde not inactivating the virus.
You will never look at vaccinated children the same
Documentary with many links to research about vaccinated populations shedding live viruses and contaminating the people around them. Vaccinated people actually creating the disease outbreaks and the media blaming the unvaccinated.
Dr Kristine Hicks - The WOW factor
Dr Hicks talks about the detrimental effects of vaccines on a healthy immune system.
Dont tell the neighbours we have chickenpox - Vaxtruth.org
This article explores some of the reasons why getting lifelong natural immunity is preferable to short-term vaccine immunity.
What are the dangers of postponing your exposure to normally mild childhood diseases?
Is the flu vaccine safe?
Should we get the Flu vaccine?
Piers Morgans gets the flu 10 days after the flu shot.
Desperate times for vaccine injury denials
Dr Andrew Moulden - What you were never told about vaccines
Gwen Olsen ex pharmaceutical rep talks about dangerous manipulation of doctors
Less and less disclosure to doctors over the years. Marketing more important than the truth. Clinical studies changed over the years. Statistics manipulated. Side effects manipulated and minimised. Patients damaged and killed. FDA not protecting the public interest.
Do Vaccines Cause Autism?
Rob Shneider expains how Pharmaceutical companies cannot be held responsible for any damages or deaths their vaccines cause.
In last 30 years vaccine schedule has tripled and the Autism rate is now 1 in 50. Parents must go to a special Vaccine Court. Pharmaceutical companies pay nothing. Tax payers fund this court. Baby receives more vaccines at 6 months than her mother did by adulthood. Vaccines unavoidably unsafe.
2 Studies show Inflammation linked to Autism and Vaccines
Inflammation caused by vaccination can increase levels of CRP C-reactive protein.
Out of 1.6 million+ samples, scientists analyzed 677 cases of autism, looking for a well-established low-grade inflammation marker called C-reactive protein (CRP). High levels of CRP can be an indication that the body is responding to a bacterial or viral infection. [3]
The results of the study were clear: A potential 80% increased risk of childhood autism followed exposure to elevated maternal CRP. The data shows the higher the level of CRP in the mother, the greater the risk of autism in the child.
5 in 1 vaccine kills 37 children in India
After pressure applied to worried objectors - Government caves in and restarts vaccination programme.This is a case of the cure (vaccine deaths) being worse than the disease. The government seldom quotes the Mintz study data, but relies instead on estimates that are not based on empirical evidence.
So Autism is Even More Common This Year than Last Year. Who Cares?
by Dr Bob Sears
Protection against Whooping Cough (Pertussis) waned during the 5 years after the Fifth dose of DTaP
How many doses does it take? Do we have to take vaccines for ever? Every year for the rest of our lives? What kind of protection is that?
Vaccines and Type-1 Diabetes - Your Child at Risk?
by Family Health Freedom Network
"Every hour, three children in the United States are diagnosed with type-1 diabetes.
However, type-1 diabetes’s incidence was very low in the first half of the twentieth century. Type-1 diabetes, especially in young children, became more prevalent during the second half of the twentieth century and really began to surge during the past twenty years Researchers also see a trend in the increased prevalence of other autoimmune disorders. Not only are certain autoimmune disorders increasingly common, but the autoimmune diseases, as a class, seem to be on the rise".
Frank B Engley Jr PhD - A pioneer in the efficacy and Toxicity of Thimerosal
If only we had listened to research dating back decades (1956) we could have saved so many children from the adverse effects of Thimerosal laced vaccines. Guess what we are mandating even more Thimerosal laced vaccines for the future.
Thimerosal is significantly toxic to human tissue culture cells at 10 ppb. A Flu vaccine contains 50,000 ppb. Get one every year why don't you!.
Vaccine Sceptical Scientists deserve appreciation and fair press
According to best-selling author Lawrence Solomon who is also a Wall Street Journal contributor, National Post columnist, and publisher of the award-winning The Next City magazine, the demeaning of vaccine skeptics in the media defies explanation. In a Huffington Post article dated January 6th, he writes, "No journalist would have had any difficulty finding dozens of distinguished skeptical scientist for the very few "rogue" scientists that the press has vilified."
How Mercury Kills the Brain - Autism
This video shows the devastating effects of mercury on living nerve cells
Former science chief
Dr Peter Fletcher:
Vaccines cause Autism:
"What more evidence is needed"
Can vaccines contribute to the onset of autism in some children?
I believe that contention is not only possible, it is plausible, more research is needed.
Dangers of vaccines
Autism and vaccines. Effects of vaccines containing Thimerosal (mercury) used as a preservative. Number of vaccines has tripled. Increases in Neurodevelopment diseases, Immune diseases, Repetitive behaviours, Asbergers syndrome, Autism and Autistic spectrum disorders, Learning and behavioural disorders. Dr David Ayoub says trace amounts of mercury still exist in vaccines and flu vaccines have a full dose of mercury. Mercury is an immune suppressor.
Dangers of vaccine ingredients
"First do no harm" dangers of Mercury, aluminium and other toxic ingredients. No long term studies done on injection of all these ingredients simultaneously. We don't know where these materials go or what they do in the body. We dont know if they enter the mitochondria, the limbic system, the nucleus.We listened to the parents of damaged children who said their children were fine till they had the vaccines.
The Quiet killer - Viruses in the vaccines
Dr Kent talks about the history of at least 40 different viruses in the polio vaccine. Cancer viruses from vaccines e.g. SV40. Corruption of vaccine manufacturers.Viruses an autoimmune disease. Guillian Barre syndrome and multiple sclerosis. De-myelination and hypersensitivity of the immune system after vaccination.
Powerful Movie - The untold story of Vaccines by Dr Gary Null
The History of vaccines, exploding the misunderstandings and myths about vaccination and immunisation. The mistaken belief that only antibodies protect against disease. Short term antibody vaccine effects compared to life long natural immunity involving the whole immune system. The criminals behind vaccine pushing and vaccine research papers. The links between Autism and MMR and other vaccines. The Autism epidemic 1 in 50 now. Many eminent scientists and doctors discuss the problems and dangers of vaccines and their toxic ingredients. The dangers of monkey and bird and human DNA in vaccines injected into humans. The dangers of egg and other protein additives in the vaccines injected into humans. The rise in Allergies and Asthma and other allergic diseases. The rise in Auto-immune problems and Neuro -developmental problems with the increase in more and more vaccines on the vaccine schedule. The infringement of human rights with the advent of mandatory vaccinations. The myth of herd immunity and outbreaks of diseases in highly vaccinated populations.
Professor Garth Nicolson
Terrible new diseases by Dr Garth Nicolson. Increased incidences of Neurodegenerative diseases. Chronic demyelinating diseases. Dementia, Alzeimers, Motor neurone diseases. Multiple Sclerosis, Amytrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Autism and Autism spectrum diseases and other developmental diseases.
Gulf war syndrome. More than 28000 dead after Gulf war. Illnesses spread to the families of Gulf war soldiers.
Evidence of harmful effects from vaccines are in the scientific literature
Lifelong immunity from wild viruses and bacteria. Myths about vaccines. Scientific papers on dangers of vaccines. Blind faith culture not willing to believe anything wrong with vaccines. Should we trust the Pharmaceutical companies if we look at their past history. Direct link between vaccines and Autism. Aluminium neurotoxin. ADHD. Allergic reactions. Developmental disorders.Immune system storm - inflammatory cytokines. Difference between TH2 and TH1 immune systems. Importance of Mucous membranes in immune protection. Narcolepsy in swine flu vaccine. Encephalopathy is side effect of vaccines. Whooping cough outbreaks in vaccinated populations.
Dr Paul Offit said people can take 10,000 vaccines in 1 day and not die. Vaccine court pays millions to vaccine injured. Brain damage following vaccination. Generation.org. Merck researcher admits Gardasil is worthless. Vaccine failure. Guillian Barre syndrome payouts by vaccine court. Demyelination disease payouts. Worthless and dangerous flu shots.
Dr Andrew Moulden talks about mechanism of vaccine induced Autism and Micro-strokes
Injection of adjuvants that act as blood coagulants and overstimulation of the immune system after vaccination with antigens and proteins can cause coagulation of the blood in microscopic capillaries resulting in micro-strokes throughout the body. Aluminium is a known flocculant (coagulant) which can contribute to this process, causing ischaemia in various places in the body eg brain and nervous system resulting in tissue death and neurodevelopmental disorders such as Autism and Guillian Barre syndrome.
You can submit your site to HotVsNot.com improve your internet marketing This site is listed under Vaccination Directory
Vaccine Ingredients - what is in the vaccines?
Chicken kidney cells, Monkey kidney cells, Insect cells, calf serum proteins, egg proteins, Bovine proteins, DNA, Formaldehyde, Mercury, Bovine serum, fetal bovine serum.
Dr Garth Nicolson: Weaponised Mycoplasmas
Developed as Biological warfare weapons: Mycoplasmas now cause emerging new infections. Illnesses which have increased dramatically in the past 20 to 25 years. New behavioural illnesses Autism Spectrum disorders seem to be arising from chronic illnesses with Mycoplasmas and viruses.Doctors not taught anymore about these Mycoplasma infections during training. Aspergers syndrome, Chronic fatigue syndrome, Gastrointestinal disorders, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Rheumatoid Arthritis. Vasculitis.
NaturalNews.com is a site where an extended range of health and news articles including vaccines updates are available. Keep up with developing news at Natural News.com
vactruth.com is a site where Vaccine ingredients, information and news stories can be accessed
Vaccination Information Network - VINE
Here up to date information and news stories on vaccines can be accessed
Family Health Information Network
is a site containing articles on many health related issues
Please ensure that if you or your family have experienced adverse reactions to any vaccine that this is promptly reported to VAERS or the Yellow card system.
Many Doctors and Health professionals are so convinced that vaccines are harmless that they refuse to believe that anything could possibly go wrong.
They therefore are not inclined to believe there is any connection between the vaccination and adverse reactions and they are reluctant to report them.
Under-reporting of adverse reactions is therefore the norm. It is only by getting reliable feedback and statistics about adverse reactions that informed decisions can be made about the safety and efficacy of any vaccine.
All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. This website and its authors are not responsible for content written by other contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and recreational purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional medical advice or professional advice of any kind. Licensed medical practitioners should always be consulted. This website and its authors assume no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material and assume no liability for any consequences associated with the use or misuse of this material.
All Rights Reserved.
Web Hosting by iPage