Emotional Fitness and Your Heart
Home
Business
Real Estate
Finance
Healing
Insurance
Internet
Legal
Medical
Technology
Writing-speaking
Stats
Contact Us
Best Useful Articles
Emotional Fitness and Your Heart
Several years ago a professional ballerina was the recipient of a heart transplant. As a dancer she had been extremely conscious of her diet and ate only healthy low fat foods. It was a mystery to her why she craved and absolutely had to have some chicken McNuggets when she was discharged from the hospital. Later, she learned that her donor was an 18 year old boy who was killed on his motorcycle. In his leather jacket pocket was his favorite food: chicken McNuggets. Many psychologists who work with organ transplant patients routinely hear this type of story. It has led to the growing body of evidence that our heart and body are receptacles for our life experiences and feelings.
Heart Disease? Here Are Five Tips That Can Help Lower the Risk
While breast cancer gets all the attention, it is heart disease that is the number one killer of women. Women do suffer fewer heart attacks than men, but they are less likely to survive them. This means that both women and men should be mindful of the risk of a heart attack and take those steps necessary to reduce the risk of suffering one. 1. Check your blood pressure. Higher blood pressure levels occur when the arteries are narrowed due to plaque buildup in the vessels. As this pressure increases, it can dislodge pieces of arterial plaque into the bloodstream which can then lead to a heart attack. If you do not know what your blood pressure is, you can either buy a blood pressure monitor at your neighborhood drugstore or see your doctor.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy substance the body uses to protect nerves, make tissues and produce certain hormones. Our liver makes most of the cholesterol in the body. Some cholesterol also comes from foods such as eggs, meats and dairy products. Cholesterol is an essential ingredient of many physiological body functions. For example, it helps produce bile, combines hormones and vitamin D, and metabolises fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, K). It is, therefore, important to keep cholesterol levels within an ideal range, not too low and not too high. Cholesterol problems can result when your digestive organs cannot properly digest the fats or proteins you consume.
Technology in Heart Surgeries
If you are in need of cardiothoracic surgery there are places using the latest in technology that help speed up your recover and improve your chances of less trauma to your body. The name of this technology is the da Vinci robot and it is one of the latest developments in surgical technology. This robot does not operate on you like R2D2 could. It doesn't have any computing power with which to think on its own. It is more of an extension of the surgeon's arms and allows the surgeon to be very precise. Surgeons are very good at what they do and many have extremely fine motor skills but it is hard to be as precise as a robot can be. The robot doesn't move unless you move it.
Heart Conditions May Be Helped With Rehab
If you've recently been diagnosed with congenital or acquired heart disease then you may be a candidate for a cardiac rehabilitation program. To be a likely candidate you don't have to fall in the category of those who have had a heart attack. You may also be a candidate without having had heart surgery or other heart procedures. The decision is for you and your doctor to discuss. If your physician thinks you are a likely candidate and has prescribed a cardiac rehab program it might be to help improve your hearts functional capacity, to reduce symptoms and to produce a greater sense of well-being for you. If you have any one of the following conditions, you may be in favor of discussing the possibility of being in a cardiac rehabilitation program with your doctor: Congestive heart failure, Angina pectoris, Myocardial infarction, Post-open heart surgery, Post-heart transplantation, Balloon angioplasty, Pacemaker, Congenital heart disease, Arrhythmias, or Rheumatic heart disease.
The Relationship Between Smoking and Heart Disease
There are many risk factors for heart disease. The two main high risk factors are a diet that is high in fatty food and smoking. Indulging in fatty food will result in the build up of fat in your blood stream. This will then manifests itself in two ways, as high blood pressure or high cholesterol level. Both will means that your heart is working harder to pump the blood, increasing the risk of heart attack. Smoking is a high risk factor for heart disease because the carcinogens in the cigarettes contribute to various heart problems. Together these two risk factors are the most serious because they are hard to kick habits. Smoking and Coronary Heart Disease There are still a few who chose to deny the connection between smoking and coronary heart disease.
Heart Disease - The Leading Cause of Fatalities in Women
Although women are less prone to heart disease as compared with men, it must be known that heart disease is the leading cause of death for women today. The risk is in fact higher for women for certain profile of the population. For example, women smokers are several times more prone to heart disease than male smokers. Heart diseases are caused by many different factors. For example old age, obesity, smoking, high blood pressure, diabetic and a sedentary lifestyle can cause heart disease to develop. In addition, menopause in women can also causes heart disease. Understanding the causes of heart disease is the important first step toward prevention of the disease.
Tips on How to Live With Heart Disease
Heart disease is not a just single condition or disorder. It has many forms and conditions. Hence, the term 'heart disease' refers to any disorder pertaining to the heart and the supporting blood circulatory system. The Causes of Heart Disease Some heart diseases are unpreventable. Typical examples are congenital and hereditary heart disease, which are due to defects existing at birth and due to genes respectively. There are other heart diseases, which are acquired due to lifestyle. For the acquired types, it is possible to prevent them by living healthily, including doing physical exercise regularly, eating a balanced diet, not smoking and drink excessively.
Fish Oil and Cholesterol
While it may strike some people as surprising, one of the most powerful ways to combat cholesterol levels in the blood is by eating a food high in oil: fish oil. Countless studies, including some backed by the American Heart Association have linked the consumption of fish oil to the decline in high levels of cholesterol. In addition, a regular supplementation of fish oil, coupled with a healthy diet and exercise, can help keep the levels low. Here is why. Fish oil is naturally high in omega 3 fatty acids. These super foods work to aid nearly any bodily process imaginable. Among their array of physical and mental health benefits, the omega 3 compounds in fish oil play an integral role in helping maintain a healthy blood pressure.
How to Get Rid of High Cholesterol
Contrary to what most people think, cholesterol itself is not bad; in fact, cholesterol is a very important part of the human body's functions. It helps in the maintenance and building of cell membranes and hormones. Cholesterol is carried through the bloodstream by two types of proteins: the low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and the high-density lipoproteins (HDL). Among the two, it is the LDL that leaves the fat on the walls of the arteries and deposits it in the body tissues. The HDL, on the other hand, transports the cholesterol to the liver, where it is excreted. Because of this, LDL is also called "bad cholesterol" and HDL, "good cholesterol." To be considered not at risk, your total cholesterol level should be less than 200 mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter) and your total cholesterol-to-HDL ratio should be below 4.
Page: [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35]
Fast: [10] [20] [30] [40]
Alternative
Drug Abuse
Allergies
Arthritis
Back Pain
Beauty
Aerobics Cardio
Skin Care
Cholesterol
Medicine
Depression
Diabetes
Eating Disorders
Health Insurance
Hearing
Heart Disease
Diseases
Home Health Care
Menopause News
Mental Health
Nutrition
Fitness Equipment
Pain Management
Physical Therapy
Anti Aging
Sleep Snoring
Quit Smoking
Health and Fitness
Women's Issues
Commitment
Communication
Love
Singles
Acne
Build Muscle
Dental Care
Ears Hearing
Ergonomics
Exercise
Eyes Vision
Hair Loss
Healing Arts
Massage
Meditation
Obesity
Popular Diets
Speech Pathology
Supplements
Weight Loss
Yoga
Kids and Teens
Women's Interests
Arts and Entertainment
Astrology
Humanities
Humor
Movies TV
Music
Performing Arts
Philosophy
Photography
Poetry
Tattoos
Best Useful Articles © Dimitrov Dmitriy
Designer Dimitrov Dmytriy