5 Things You Need to Know about Marijuana. - We Know CBD
Search
Search
Home
Shop
About Us – CBD Science
What is CBD
Blog
Contact
SIGN IN OR CREATE ACCOUNT
PHONE ORDERS: (562) 999-2528
SIGN IN OR CREATE ACCOUNT
Username or email address *
Password *
Lost password ?
Remember Me
Log in
New client Register ?
0
No products in the wishlist.
Home
Shop
About Us – CBD Science
What is CBD
Blog
Contact
Menu
Search
Search
0 Cart: $0.00
Free standard shipping on orders over $50
Home Uncategorized
5 Things You Need to Know about Marijuana.
5 Things You Need to Know about Marijuana.
January 30, 2019 / 103 / 0
What is Marijuana? What makes Marijuana so popular?
Marijuana is the dried part of the hemp plant, scientifically known as Cannabis sativa. The dried plant parts like leaves, flowers, stems as well as the seeds are referred to as Marijuana.
The ingredient that makes Marijuana so the popular illegal drug is the chemical constituents in it which are called delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). It is used for medicinal purposes, yet it is still illegal in many parts of the world including the United States.
What does Marijuana look like? How can you Recognize different types of Marijuana? What are its different local names in various regions?
Marijuana appears as ragged greenish-brown plant material, mostly like a shredded weed or rotten leaves. Unlike the herbs of our kitchen which look fuller, Marijuana has shredded looks because of being dried. The distinctive characteristic of Marijuana is its characteristic pungent smell. The smell is strong and unpleasant. The smell is quite recognisable as the unburnt weed usually smells like the one which people use after burning. You can usually find out the smell in the clothes and the breath of Marijuana smokers. The smell gradually becomes unrecognizable to the weed smokers while a non-smoker can easily detect it because of the strong odour. Therefore, you can easily find out whether you are in the company of one or not.
Marijuana has over 200 local names and in different regions, it is specifically recognised with a typical name. In some regions, it is led as weed while in other regions it is called a pot. There are several other local names associated with Marijuana like grass widow, ganja, bubble gum, fruit juice, Mary Jane, etc.
There are different ways to prepare the same drug for a different type of intake. They all may seem different based on the ways of preparation. Although, they are all the same and contain the same psychoactive ingredient known as THC. Marijuana can also affect different individuals differently. The potency of the drug depends on the method of preparation and the frequency of the drug intake.
Marijuana, often known as weed or pot, is usually taken in an unprocessed form. The unprocessed weed is high in THC and is often smoked. The weed contains buds and leaves of the hemp plant. These leaves and buds are dried to prepare the weed.
What is the Legal Status of Marijuana?
Marijuana has been considered one of the most illegal drugs even today, in most parts of the world. From a national survey, conducted in 2016, it was found out that most of the Americans who are over the age group of 12, have consumed Marijuana. The number accounted for 44 per cent. It was the quite a shocking result of the survey. Marijuana was considered illegal in the United States. However, in the 2018 mid elections of the United States considered legalizing the weed in many states. Over 10 states and Washington DC have been found out legalizing the weed. But, the user has only been considered for medicinal purposes. The recreational uses of Marijuana are also considered for over 30 states all over the world. It can be given only to adults over 21 age for curative reasons. It is still legal under federal law.
How is Marijuana Taken? What Effects and Risks does Marijuana leave on people when intaken?
Marijuana is commonly taken in form of smoke. It is used as a smoking agent or as a cigarette. It is rolled like a cigarette and then refilled and burnt to smoke just like a pipe. It is also eaten in different forms. People take THC rich contents in their food like weed brewed as a tea.
Effects:
People who take Marijuana are found with many discomforts when they do not consume the same. They are usually addicted and suffer from conditions like dry mouth, swollen eyelids, loss of concentration, high breathing rate and accelerated heart rate. The human brain has receptors on their brain cells which tend to bind irreversibly with the THC and causes high cellular reactions. The person can experience extreme levels of hallucinations and paranoia. When a person intakes the weed, he can feel relaxed and comfortable at that moment. But, as when the effect goes down gradually, the person starts to feel discomfort and stressed again. This ultimately drives him to be addicted to the weed.
Risks
There are several short and long-term risks associated with the health of people addicted to Marijuana.
Short-term risks
They have short-term thinking difficulties as well as impaired memory. They gradually develop poor eyesight and learning difficulties. Anxiety and hallucinations are quite common. The person is prone is heart diseases and neural failure risks.
Long-term risks include
The person is surrounded by repetitive respiratory hazards like breathing problems, asthma, bronchitis, lung cancer, or even mouth and respiratory tract cancer. The weed can highly infect the lungs, leading to death. In men, prolonged smoking of weed can result in decreased sperm count. In women, it can lead to irregular menstruation and difficulties in conceiving.
Can Marijuana cause severe Addiction? How can we cure Marijuana Addicts?
Studies suggest that people with prolonged Marijuana intake can develop disorders due to its side effects. 30 per cent of the people become addictive and end up developing severe health issues. Most usually, youngsters are prone to develop an addiction to Marijuana than adults. Youngsters within the age group of 18 or near can have severe side effects if they consume. The disorders can be long-term and irreversible. They can inhibit the addiction for a lifetime.
After a prolonged intake, it also becomes stressful for that person to quit it. It is very difficult for them and leads to sleeplessness, anxiety and irritation. They develop abusive behaviour and aggression. It is a long-term process to quit the weed. Therefore, it is always better to stay away from such disastrous drugs like Marijuana. Once you are addicted, you will behave uncontrollably.
Currently, there is no medication available to help someone to get cured completely of the damages caused by Marijuana. However, there are research and experiments carried out to find out a cure to such drugs that bind with the human neural system and cause permanent damage. There are behavioural treatments given to the addicts to help them to become better and get rid of the irritability faster. There are individual and group sessions for patients to recover from the problems. It is advisable to consult a doctor if you get addicted to any drug. You can also talk with people who are close to you like your family members or friends. They can help you in withdrawing before the problem becomes intense. Get the national helpline number 1800-662-4357 and call the Mental Health Services, before it is too late.
Essential extracts of the Marijuana plant
CBD is extracted from the Cannabis Sativa plant or the Marijuana plant. It is a pain believing agent that has very good relief effects without any side effect as the weed intake. This is a good choice for people to get prolonged relief from spasm or injury. Several essential CBD products are available that are currently popular for their astonishing effects. CBD oil is prepared by extracting CBD from the Marijuana plant. It is then diluted with carrier oils like olive or coconut oil. Several CBD lotions are also prepared in the similar way. The link given below is for the best quality product of CBD Lotion prepared from the CBD oils, extracted from the seed of the hemp plant.
CBD of the Marijuana plant is gaining its popularity as a curative agent a over the world.Different research studies confirm that it can cure several chronic anxiety disorders. There are roll-ons that lessen chronic headache. Get the CBD roll-on to get instant relief from headache.
There are CBD oil vape cartridge available in different interesting flavors without any trace of THC. Get the high-quality cannabidiol isolate from 100% natural terpenespre-filled CBD oil vape.
The products are purified and undergo layers of distillation process before being packed for usage. Get more such CBD products online that are distilled and ridden with chemical residues like propylene glycol.
Share Post
What is Marijuana ? – Ho...
Related posts
What is Marijuana ? – How to Use CBD Products ?
January 5, 2019 / 243 / 0
As in the words of Richard Nivelle: “Is marijuana addictive? Yes, in the sense that most of the really pleasant things in life are worth…
Continue reading
Leave a reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked
Your Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search
Search
Categories
Uncategorized
Tags Cloud
CBD CBD Poduct Marijuana
PHONE
(562) 999-2528
address
600 N Jeffereson St.,
Unit A, Placentia, 92870 CA, USA
e-mail
info@weknowcbd.com
With cutting edge technology and forward thinking, CBD Science is at the forefront of innovative product manufacturing.
600 N Jefferson St., Unit A Placentia, CA
Main Menu
Home
Shop
About Us – CBD Science
What is CBD
Blog
Contact
Useful
My account
Cart
Checkout
Sitemap
Follow us
© Copyright 2018 weknowcbd.com. All Rights Reserved.
Get 30% Off Now!!!
Register now and get free coupon code.
Register Now