Oil Pulling 101
Books & Media
Eco-friendly
Natural Home
Garden
Herbs
Health
Cancer
Cleanses
Teas
DIY
Beauty
Pet Care
Toggle navigation
Books & Media
Eco-friendly
Natural Home
Garden
Herbs
Health
Cancer
Cleanses
Teas
DIY
Beauty
Pet Care
Oil Pulling 101
April 25, 2015
by Sasha
Beauty , Health
No Comment
A simple, all-around treatment for oral health, the Ayurvedic tradition of oil pulling not only detoxes the body, but cleans teeth and gums thoroughly! Whiten your teeth, remove harmful bacteria and reduce inflammation in a safe and effective way. For the past 3,000 years, India and Asia has used oil pulling to treat 30 systemic diseases, but it was only recently introduced to the Western world.
How to do Oil Pulling
Oil pulling has 3000 years’ worth of testimonials that display its effectiveness. It’s extremely easy, too. Each morning when you first get up, but before you brush your teeth or eat, swish a teaspoon of natural, food-quality oil in your mouth for 20 minutes.
It won’t work if you don’t make it at least 15 minutes into the swish. Don’t gargle it, and don’t swallow it. You’ll know you’re done because the oil will develop a milky, foamy quality. Spitting it out into the trash can to avoid potential plumbing problems with septic systems. Rinse your mouth thoroughly using warm water and brush your teeth. Your mouth will feel clean, fresh, and amazing.
You can use a wide range of different oils for oil pulling. The preferred oils include: coconut oil, olive oil, and sesame oil. These different oils have many benefits of their own and are more effective than using mouthwash or other products.
How the Oil Works
As the oil is swished around your teeth and gums, it literally “pulls” the bacteria and removes debris from your mouth, putting it into the oil, creating a detoxification effect. Our mouths can have a number of viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites and other toxic wastes. These can lead to gum diseases, bad breath, cavities and other oral problems. They can also contribute to heart disease, eczema, arthritis and chronic infection. Detoxing your mouth can relieve your immune system of these potential health problems.
Benefits of Oil Pulling
Treat Oral Diseases- Oil pulling provides an all-natural cure for conditions like gingivitis, inflammation, cavities and bleeding gums. It can provide relief from halitosis, too!
Whiten Teeth- Oil pulling will not only clean and freshen, but whiten your teeth, too! This simple, amazing home treatment, can whiten teeth better than commercial teeth whiteners that are packed with chemicals. You will experience cleaner skin, and higher alertness.
Other Ailments- It can provide help for a number of different ailments. It can boost the immune system, as well as provide prevention to a number of infections and diseases. Oil pulling promotes normal sleep patterns, protect from kidney disease, remedy headaches, prevent and treat eczema, chronic infection, hangovers and bronchitis!
Some people also experience curbed appetites and weight loss. Aside from medical benefits, oil pulling has a number of cosmetic benefits, like healthy gums, clear skin, and immune system boosting benefits.
Books on Oil Pulling
You can find a ton of information on Oil Pulling.
Oil Pulling Therapy: Detoxifying and Healing the Body Through Oral Cleansing will explain the details of how oil pulling affects your mouth.
Oil Pulling Therapy For Beginners: Detoxify & Heal Your Mouth, Teeth, Gums & Body With Coconut Oil Through Natural Oil Pulling can explain everything about the way oil pulling gets rid of the disease causing bacteria.
Oil Pulling Revolution: The Natural Approach to Dental Care, Whole-Body Detoxification and Disease Prevention informs you of how oil pulling benefits your entire body for glowing skin, improved heart health, more energy, fewer migraines and a healthier overall lifestyle.
For those new to oil pulling, you can learn all about it through: The Beginner’s Guide To Oil Pulling: Nature’s Therapy: Learn How To Heal Your Body By Using An Ancient Oral Detox Therapy.
Have you ever tried oil pulling? Please share your experience below!
Tagged: best oils for oil pulling, coconut oil pulling, oil pulling, Oral Diseases, whiten your teeth naturally
About Author
Sasha
Sasha has a zeal for the natural things in life. As a Certified Herbalist, she has injected pure naturalism into her diet by eating purely organic foods. She also writes for https://findthecureinnature.com/
No Comment
Leave A Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (required)
Website
Comment...
Please enter your name. Please enter an valid email address. Please enter a message.
Post Comment
PreviousCatnip: Cats Can’t Help but Lick, Roll and Eat It	NextDVDs and Games for Herbalists
Related Posts
12 Reasons to Start Oil Pulling Today
How to Whiten Your Teeth Naturally?
Health Effects of Using Mouthwash
Natural Remedies for Cavities
Why You Should Replace Your Regular Toothpaste With…
Disclaimer
We are not licensed medical professionals. The information displayed is not intended for diagnosing or treating any disease or condition and is for educational purposes only.
Popular posts
How to Reduce Hypercalcemia (High Calcium Levels) Naturally
May 26, 2017 Sasha10
What They Don’t Want You to Know: Vitamin B17 Kills Cancer Cells
June 24, 2018 Sasha9
He Cured Himself of Leukemia Without Drugs or Radiation
January 22, 2016 Sasha8
Have you read it?
21 Natural Remedies to Get Rid of Ringworm
October 13, 2015 Sasha0
11 Home Remedies for Nourishing and Hydrating Dry Skin
December 6, 2016 Sasha0
Make Your Own Deodorant to Avoid Toxic Chemicals
July 6, 2016 Sasha0
Information
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Contributor Guidelines
Sitemap
Copyright © 2015-2018 Vox Nature. All rights reserved.