Magnetic therapy for the treatment of arthritic pain
www.magnetictherapyfacts.org
History of magnets
How do magnets work?
Magnetic strength and measurement
Uses of magnets for common ailments
Application of magnetic therapy
Magnetic Therapy Research
Magnetic water
Animals and Magnetic therapy
Painkillers And Their Side-Effects
How Healthy Are You?
Uses of healing magnets >Arthritis
Arthritis (Rheumatoid and osteo)
What Is Arthritis?
There are many forms of arthritis and other rheumatic diseases. These diseases may cause pain, stiffness, and swelling in joints and other supporting structures of the body such as muscles, tendons, ligaments, and bones. Some forms can also affect other parts of the body, including various internal organs.
Many people use the word "arthritis" to refer to all rheumatic diseases. However, the word literally means joint inflammation; that is, swelling, redness, heat, and pain caused by tissue injury or disease in the joint. The many different kinds of arthritis make up just a portion of all rheumatic diseases.
Rheumatoid arthritis, the second most common form of arthritis, affects other parts of the body besides the joints. It begins at a younger age than osteoarthritis, causes swelling and redness in joints, and may make people feel sick, tired, and (uncommonly) feverish. Rheumatoid arthritis affects people differently. For some people, it lasts only a few months or a year or two and goes away without causing any noticeable damage. Other people have mild or moderate forms of the disease, with periods of worsening symptoms, called flares, and periods in which they feel better, called remissions. Still others have a severe form of the disease that is active most of the time, lasts for many years or a lifetime, and leads to serious joint damage and disability.
Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis, especially among older people. Sometimes it is called degenerative joint disease or osteoarthrosis.
Osteoarthritis is a joint disease that mostly affects the cartilage. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint. Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over one another. It also absorbs energy from the shock of physical movement. In osteoarthritis, the surface layer of cartilage breaks down and wears away. This allows bones under the cartilage to rub together, causing pain, swelling, and loss of motion of the joint. Over time, the joint may lose its normal shape. Also, bone spurs(small growths called osteophytes) may grow on the edges of the joint. Bits of bone or cartilage can break off and float inside the joint space. This causes more pain and damage. People with osteoarthritis usually have joint pain and limited movement. Unlike some other forms of arthritis, osteoarthritis affects only joints and not internal organs.
What Causes Arthritis Pain?
The pain of arthritis may come from different sources. These may include inflammation of the tissue that lines the joints (synovial membrane), the tendons, or the ligaments; muscle strain; and fatigue. A combination of these factors contributes to the intensity of the pain.
The pain of arthritis varies greatly from person to person, for reasons that doctors do not yet understand completely. Factors that contribute to the pain include swelling within the joint, the amount of heat or redness present, or damage that has occurred within the joint. In addition, activities affect pain differently so that some patients note pain in their joints after first getting out of bed in the morning, whereas others develop pain after prolonged use of the joint. Each individual has a different threshold and tolerance for pain, often affected by both physical and emotional factors. These can include depression, anxiety, and even hypersensitivity at the affected sites due to inflammation and tissue injury. This increased sensitivity appears to affect the amount of pain perceived by the individual.
Magnetic treatments for arthritis
All types of arthritis respond to magnetic therapy treatments because the arthritic disease process involves inflammation. As discussed in chapter 2 magnets reverse the inflammatory process, which in turn alleviates the main symptoms of arthritis:
1. Swelling
2. Pain
3. Stiffness and immobility
Magnets are not a cure for arthritis as there is currently no known cure, but they are an extremely effective drug free treatment for the chronic symptoms of all types of arthritic conditions.
However having said how well arthritis responds to magnetic treatment, it can be a little bit tricky to treat a person who has arthritis in multiple locations in the body. The reason for this is that as discussed in chapter 2 for the magnetic field to be effective it must be placed as close to the area of injury as possible. When a person has, for example, arthritis in the knees, hips, back and hands, it is not possible to reach all the area with one magnetic device. The person would need to place magnets on each area of pain to fully relieve the arthritic symptoms.
Possible treatments for this person would be:
1. To wear high strength magnetic straps around the knees, back/hips ( usually one strap will reach both areas) and wrists. Straps are both functional and comfortable, plus many contain lycra to give the joint additional support.
2. To wear super strength shoe insoles, that have a magnetic field that is strong enough to reach the knees, a high/super a strength bracelet for each hand and use a magnetic pad behind the back whilst sitting or lying. If the person does not feel comfortable in straps these are suitable alternatives.
3. To sleep on a magnetic mattress. The mattress will reach all areas of the body at once and the strength of the magnetic field is so immense that the magnetism will last for up to 16 hours after getting out of bed. This is the easiest way to treat large areas of pain and does not necessitate the need to wear additional magnets during the day.
Luckily there is a vast array of magnetic devices available today and most areas of the body can be reached with an appropriate magnetic device. There is often more than one solution available fort he treatment of multiple areas of pain and a trained therapist will be able to advise while treatment regime will fit best with your particular lifestyle.
In order for magnets to be effective they must be worn night and day until the symptoms have gone, if you are given a magnetic device that do not feel comfortable wearing or using it is unlikely that you will continue to use the treatment for the required length of time. Without 24 hours, 7 days a weeks exposure to the magnets it is unlikely that all of your symptoms will be relieved and you will feel disheartened and may even believe that magnets do not in fact work.
Case Study - Margaret aged 65
Margaret was diagnosed with osteoarthritis of the hip and spine in October 2002. After careful consideration Margaret’s orthopaedic consultant concluded that Margaret was not a suitable candidate for joint replacement surgery. Margaret was commenced on a painkilling regime that remained ineffective for the next 2 years. At each out patient review her painkilling medication was increased. By October 2004 Margaret was taking the maximum dose of morphine sulphate tablets daily.
Margaret was seen in out magnetic clinic in October 2004, her mobility was severely compromised and lent heavily on 2 walking sticks, she was extremely depressed and had trouble sleeping. Margaret’s initial pain score was 7 out of 10 and her pain had also spread form just her hips and spine, she now had painful feet and pain in her wrists from leaning on her sticks. Margaret was prescribed a back belt for her hips and spine, shoe insoles for her feet, straps for her wrists and 4-6 glasses of magnetised water a day. Margaret did not feel comfortable wearing the back belt and it was concluded that she would not comply with the treatment if she was given the back belt, a pillow pad was prescribed as an alternative to the belt and she was advised to use it as much as she could during the day and all night every night.
At her 1 week review Margaret’s pain score was 0 out of 10 she explained that by the very next day after commencing her treatment nearly all of her pain had disappeared. Margaret was recommended to continue to use the magnetic treatment for the following 4 weeks to ensure her symptoms had completely resolved and to continue drinking magnetised water. Margaret requested a magnetic mattress cover for use at night and additional straps for her knees. She continued to wear the magnets during the day and slept on the mattress cover at night.
Margaret returned to clinic 3 weeks later extremely distraught, the pain she had previously felt has resolved but she was now suffering with a severe grating pain in her hip anf knee joints. We could only conclude that Margaret was now suffering from an absence of adequate lubrication in her joints, this was partly due to the action of the magnets removing the inflammation from around the joint and partly due the effects of the arthritis in the joint. Margaret was recommended to commence taking glucosamine and chrondroitin which help to repair connective tissue and lubricate the joints. In addition Margaret was advised to increase her intake of magnetised water by 2 glasses a day and also advised to stop wearing her magnetic devices during the day and just use the mattress cover at night.
Margaret was seen at 2 week intervals over the next 8 weeks and her condition improved over time. The nutritional supplements helped with the joint lubrication, plus Margaret found that by alternating the use of the mattress cover and the magnetic devices worn during the day she found a happy medium. It is impossible to say exactly why Margaret’s joints grated after using the magnets but I can only surmise that , as her initial response to the magnetic fields was very quick( with in 24 hours) , her body absorbs magnetic fields very efficiently and she did not actually need the amount of magnetism that she placed on her skin. The addition of the mattress cover which contained 100 x 2,600 gauss/260 m tesla magnets was strong enough to remove all of the inflammation with in Margaret’s joints this left them with out any buffering mechanism and as a result the worn edges of her joints were pressing upon nerves.
The solution to Margaret’s dilemma was to find a dosage of magnetism that was strong enough to penetrate into the tissues and reduce her pain but not strong enough to completely remove the fluid from around her joints, once this was established pain relief was once again felt.
Uses of healing magnets >Arthritis
Magnet therapy products, magnetic bracelets for natural pain relief of arthritis, back pain and fibromyalgia.
"FREE Report Exposes The Real Truth About Magnetic Bracelets"
Do Magnetic Bracelets Really Work Or Is It All Just A Load Of Rubbish!
Discover The Frank And Unbiased Facts About Magnetic Bracelets
In This FREE Report worth £27.00...
Simply enter your details and you'll receive your copy of this free report in your email inbox INSTANTLY
Name
Email
Your info is safe. And you can unsubscribe at any time!
Magnetic therapy treatments for relieving pain by using natural, healing medical rare earth magnets
© copyright 2006 Magnetic Therapy Council. All rights reserved. Email: enquiry@magnetictherapyfacts.org